

jyicEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. BEAVER STOUT.
R. <3-. WATKINS SC, CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOB —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
13,800 MACHINES SOLD.
Paris
1900
Grand
Prix.
Two
Gold
Medals
Three
Silver
Medals
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life-size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character—very superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond (a good catch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox, the Great Yankee Bicycle Puzzle (very
ingenious), and, last of all, the famous Wizard of the
North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 28 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
ĥ
New York Novelty Co.,
'lpf-'K*?
Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ■ 85 Pitt street, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for RUSTON, PROCTOR & CO., Ltd., LINCOLN.
FINISHING THRASHING MACHINES, With Patent ECCENTRIC MOTION for driving: SHAKERS & SHOES. Improved Double-Crank
Finishing; Thrashing; Machines, with Self-Oiling; Drumshaft Bearings. Less Driving Power required. Less Oil. SIX wecivo
WORK with only ONE OILING, and with less than THREE PINTS of OIL. Portable and Fixed STEAM and OIL ENGINES. McLaren s
Compound TRACTION ENGINES. Moffat Virtue SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES. Broadbent’s HYDRO EXTRACTORS.
For FULL PARTICULARS and ILLUSTRATED LISTS apply to - - GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 85 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THORNES
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.j Posted, Bd.
SOBART.
— m —
(jadleys Orient Ijotel.
PIONEER
®
LEATHER
BELTING^
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., S;
sed ’ htiioKty'
THE GENUINE
Automatic Valve Aerator
Used by all leading Melbourne and
country Hotelkeepers.
Money Saving! Time Saving:!
No Skilled Labor required.
Produces sparkling Aerated Waters of the
Highest Quality.
Absolutely Best and Simplest Machine
known.
The VOLCANIC A
AERATING
HACHINE
*!l4irirt!iniunu».min»ftr.nfm,nn**iin»ii*
The Volcanic Aerated Water Machine Is being: used by MESSRS. SPIERS & POND
on the Railway Refreshment Bars, London and Scotland.
A few reasons why the “Volcanic” Machine is superior to all others.
1. The Valve works automatically ; no other aerating machine of this class has an Automatic Valve.
2. The Water Cylinder holds 10 gals., and has two perforated partitions inside, causing the sparkle so much
appreciated. Weight, 801bs. Copper, thoroughly tinned inside and outside.
8. The gas tube holds 571bs. pure gas, being much larger than the tubes supplied with other plants.
4. The Turn-over Bottling Back is made of the best metal. Thirty dozen per hour can be bottled with it.
6. The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine is the only one of its kind erected in the leading houses in Melbourne, including—
■» The Grand Hotel, Parer’s Crystal Caf6, Parer’s The Duke Caf4, Young and Jackson’s, J. Richardson’s Hotel,
Bourke-street, Evans’ Oovent Garden Caf<5, Lucas Caf6, Town Hall Hotel, Sheehan’s New Treasury Hotel,
Bubira’s Oaf6, Victoria Coffee Palace, Hotel Metropole, Imperial, Lucas (Confectioner), Bath’s Hotel,
Britannia, Australian, A.N.A., City Arm ,ete., etc. Also many others in the suburbs and the leading houses
in the country.
Price, £30, with all accessories.
Smaller Machine on
•ame principle, £2O.
SPECIAL NOTICE .—The “ VOLOANIO” Machine was the first of its kind introduced into Australasia. I
received the Gold Medal against all competitors at the Ballarat Exhibition.
Write for Pamphlets, containing Testimonials from people who have used the machines for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor, Office. 101 Queen-st„ Melbourne* Depot: 130 Cecil-st,, South Melbourne
PtAKSON’S
PEPTO-CHLOR
If your Chemist
«°es not stock
PEPTO-CHLOR
send direct to
The Orlanao
Pearson
Pepto-Chlor
Office,
Sydney Stock
Is not a CURB ALL,
but it...
Does Cure
Indigestion
Acting: at once on the
Digestive Organs-
r— dh\ f o ,p ( bottle. ■R Testimonials
ħ
HERVEY’S
RACKAROCK.
18 Tears Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
COOL
.ROOF
A
AGENTS: Leading Ironmonger*
everywhere .
COOL HOUSES
WHITE COMPO.
or TERRA COTTA
To Avoid Fraud
seeTßadeMark
ON EACH CASE&C.
h
STORIES s For these
“ARABIC
Wiy>
M'\km
Co 4r
Cheapest
OIL
PAINT
on
Earth !!
THE
PLUM
ĥ
PLUM’
ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other 1 . It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
KJT like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
-vW that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
; heir merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
« RAZOLEO ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
( Sincle Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
PRICE | sin | le Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents:
CRAIG & AITKEIM, 654 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id.
Post Free.
ASTHMAand bronchitis cured
By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4-s. 6d. large bottle,
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
Don't go Bald!
ħ
Dr. Walsh, of the London Skin
Hospital, says:—“Oily and per-
fumed preparations may be
charged with bacteria . . in
health they are needless and in
disease a danger.”
CAPILLA
Hair Tonic
is a clean, spirituous and medical
preparation, without a trace of any
perfume or harmful ingredients.
Mr. David Lowndes, Petrie Ter-
race, Brisbane, writes : —“ While
in Sydney I purchased a bottle of
your Oapilla, and I find it to be
an excellent restorer. I enclose a
postal note for two more bottles.”
All Chemists and Storekeepers stock
c * p "“ 2/6a bottle.
Or I will post to you a full course of
six bottles, and letter of advice for £l.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS,
Sole Proprietor and Inventor,
164 Pitt St, Sydney, N.S.W.
A Natural Liquid .rood.
From Helidon, Queensland.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1245. ]
[Thursday, December 24, 1903.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper*


Book trade Advertisement.
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
LATEST FICTION FOR XMAS PRESENTS AND HOLIDAY READING.
In Paper Wrapper, 2/6. Cloth Binding, J/(>■ Postage 6d. each extra.
Allen Raine, On the Wings of the Wind.
Conan Doyle, Adventures of Gerard.
Robert Chain hers. The Maids of Paradise.
Stanley Weynuui, The Long Night.
Rosa Carey, A Passage Perilous.
James La-rVe Allen, The Mettle of the Pasture.
Frederick Palmer, The Vagabond (3/6 cloth only).
John Oxen ham. Bondman Free.
Frank Norris, A Deal in Wheat.
F Marion Crawford, The Heart of Rome.
Somerville and Ross, An Irish Cousin.
Marchmnnt (A.W.), When I was Czar.
Locke (W.J.), Where Love Is.
Merriman (H.S.), Barla«oh of the Guard.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at
Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London
NEW BULLETIN BOOKS.
4 ——
SECOND TITO NS AND
h
and Other
Dmts
By WILL H. OQILVIE.
In Handsome Cloth, with Eleven Illustrations.
Price, FOUR SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
FIFTH THOUSAND
Our Dew Selection
By “STEELE RUDD. ”
In Cloth, decorated ; with 100 Illustrations.
Price, SIX SHILLINGS.
„% For full list see The Bulletin Book Circular, post
free to any address.
Just Published t.
the Bulletin Post£ards
In three series of ten subjects each. Seriesl, Designs
by Phil May. Series 11, Designs by “Hop. Series 111,
Designs by'Australian Illustrators. ..
Price Id. each card ; lOd. each senes of ten cards 2s 6fl.
the set of three series. From all Bui h tin .agents a
booksellers, or posted direct from The Bulletin office.
Thirty comical and interesting -pictures. The
best possible Australian cards for the New Year season.
For Publication on January 15.
Phil lttay in Australia
A collection of the artist’s most notable drawing for
The Bulletin , including some two hundred cart
portraits, and humourous pictures.
P Demy folio (about 18 in. x 12 in.), printed o" superfine
paper, and handsomely bound m decorated cover
Edition limited to 975 copies in « d ec orated
10s. 6d., and 25 copies in superior binding, with ext
names, with remittance, maybe sent to
The Bulletin office. The Publishers reserve the right t
/ncreasefhe price after publication, if found desirable.
* Advance copies may be inspected at The Bulletin
Offices, 214 George Street, Sydney, and 369 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
(registered) THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, and ALL AFFECTIONS ot
the THROAT and LUNGS, and the PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
ASK FOR HUDSON'S, and take substituU.
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
Containing no Cocaine or other Poisonou* Drug*.
For COUGHB, THROAT, LOSS
The “Australasian Medical Gazette’ says.
“ Of great service in affections of the voice and throat.
IN TINS, 1/6.
ng- Their antiseptic properties P a,b 1 /g rm jden™in <
Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists. Tins, l/o. •>
KPOT • fi & '■ QUEEN’S PLACE. _
Mav be taken daily by o’d nnd young-.
3 tates ew' Zeal an d! S3Y' DNE' Y' L Ep'otVE* & Que en.la«d.
Sole Manufacturer: G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipsw v
THE RED PAGE.
E.P.0.: As to George Moore. When, three
years ago, he announced his conversion to the Irish
National movement, nobody in Ireland took him seriously.
The Dublin Leader, after remarking that George Moore
was a funny man, jestingly calculated that it would take
about three years to make him weary of Ireland. Moore
has ne\ er understood the current movement in Irish
national life. During the past decade there has
undoubtedly arisen a great interest in the Irish
language and in Irish History, but, in the main
the national movement is hard, democratic, am
practical in its trend- The bulk of the nation
have no desire to remain a picturesque peasantry
They wish to establish manufactures, to obtain demo-
cratic reforms, to maintain and improve on the acknow-
ledged high standard of local government, to discourage
porter drinking and picturesque “Celtic” idleness, and
to strengthen the economic position of the country.
When Moore decided to leave degenerate London, he
thought he was coming back to the old Celtic Bohemia
But Instead of that his artistic instincts were hurt by
the orderly spirit which the Catholic clergy are fostering
Most of the R.C. priests are taking a great and practica
interest in the industrial revival, which, though handi-
capped by Free Trade with Great Britain, i» making
BR AB f for to Protestantism, the position
is really this. Moore, as a Nationalist, leaves i the K.u.
Church, which, with all its faults, is a National Church,
and joins the Protestant Church, which is the great marK
of the anti-national caste in Ireland. When we hear that
Moore attempts to found a Rational Church as a protest
against both factions, then, and not till then, can we lane
his “ Irishman’s protest ’’ seriously.
Better light without sun *
Than sun without light;:
Better right without law
Than law without right...
Better truth without words
Than words without truth
Better youth without gold
Than gold without youth...
Better flight without wings
Than wings without flight;
Better sight without eyes
Than eyes without sight.
Better heart without head
Than head without hearrt:
Better Art without works
Than works without Art-
Better Pan without pipes
Than pipes, without Pan
Belter man without God
Than God without man.
—W. 3 Lampion, “ after the Persian,” in Thb Rbadk».
“ Mariquita ” finds “Audiemur’s quotation in
Goethe’s Faust, act i, sc. 1
What from your fathers' heritage is lent,
Earn it anew, to really possess it.
(Bayard Taylor’s trans.).. . F.C.S. : Cannot reprint. ..,
F.W.M. complains that a line in Kipling s partly-praisea
“ Sussex” is nonsense— ■
Oleari of o fficious fence or hedge,
Half-wild and wholly tame,
The wise turf cloaks the white cliff edge,
As when the Romans came.
Suggested that the line is meant to symbolise the method
of The Five Nations...SM. : Weaker... Yam : F-M.
(26/11/3) refers to J. S. Butters as being, in 76, fresh
from his Premiership in Fiji.” Butters /Was ne er
Premier of that country, but Speaker of its first beg.
Assembly during the whitey-brown Govt, of Cakobau
Rex. It was John Cleeland, of Bourke-street Albion
Hotel, who supplied W. M. Akhurst for his Melbourne
Xmas pantomime Of 1870 with the lines :
“ For Baillie and Butters have put up their shutters
And toddled away to Fiji."
“ F.M.” might have added to his notes on Marcus
Clarke that this sprightly writer’s real indifference to
Nature and almost everything else was well expressed in
his political creed : “ There is nothing I detest so much
as Protection except Freetrade. ...E.W.D. answers
“Interested” that “The Warrigal Mob is probably a
short title for verses by E. G. Millard, commencing
You must let me have Top-sail to-day, boss,
If we 're going for that warrigal mob—
and reprinted in A Century of Australian Song (Scott).
“ The Place Where the Old Horse Died, by G. J. Whyte-
Melville, is in his Songs and Verses N.E. W. : Will use in
condensed form. . • ,
Australian jokers have been having great games
recently with the innocent Eng. magazines. In int
Wide World (Nov.) there is an article about A riae
down a flume, by Mr. Silverton, of Broken Hill, that
makes delightful reading for those who know the arid
waste of Eurowie. And in ’The Royal (Nov-) sun-
downer” tells even better stories about Australian
snake-farming.” What’s the xidds, as long as the
readers are happy ?
RENUNCIATION.
Beloved, ah, beloved! in those days
When we still peeped through tangled gold that curled
On baby brows, in our young eyes a maze
Of awe, and wonder at the sweet new world
Bedimmed all else: how could we guess the truth t
A little, laughing girl, and sunkissed lad,
Treadirig the fairy fiHds of life's first youth.
Stretching imperious hands for joys that had
No measure of content ?—how could we know
Aught of the mysteries of love and woet
Yet even then there reached a subtle line.
Unseen, impalpable, but adamant.
That linked in one your unstirred soul and m#ne.
Ah me l the lords of life and death, who grant
Good gifts, but hold back knowledge till too late —
Surely they , sport with us in wanton power t
Ah me ! relentlessly they fixed our fate
And touched the secret thread till hour by hour
And year by growing year, more close and fast
It held us, and 1 woke to love at last.
\
And then I was a woman, quick to count
Each virtue merging in your sum of man ;
The lofty purpose, the unfailing fount
x Of sympathy for all beneath the ban
Of sin and grief, the cburage and the strength—
I loved you for them all, and for these too :
The beauty of your young limbs’ lissom length.
The sweetness of your eyes’ unshadowed blue.
The warm, red mouth, where lurking kisses lay,
The laugh’s keen music, and the smile’s qitick play.
Oh, ay, I was a woman—not a thing
Such as the purblind world would have me be.
Passionless-cold ; but quivering to the spring
Of being, at your presence. Woe is me !
The woman's curse, the curse of cotvard fear
That keeps us.silent while our wrung hearts break,
Assailed me. Oh, the cruel taunt and sneer
That are our portion if we dare to take
Our lives in our own hands and overcome
Custom’s hard rule. I dared not, and was dumb.
And now it is too late, dear ;’t is too late,
Too late to disobey ; too late to rue
Submission to the tyrant we create.
Who bade me sin against myself and you ;
Too late to hope that in our mortal day
The lords of life and death will lift the veil
That clouds your sight; — nay, rather will I pray
That it may darken till your senses fail:
So keep you blind, and her whose life has grown
Between us. Crime and curse are mine alone.
Therefore Igo ! For I indeed have seen
Full knowledge tremble for a moment’s space
Behind your eyes, and lest it burst its screen
And wreck your life, I swear that face to face
Never on earth shall we two stand again ;
Though well I know the ruthless ones who wrought
This evil may themselves not loose the strain
Of the firm withe in which my sold is caught,
That draws me, draws me, even while I speak
The alienating words that flush your cheek
With sudden sense of malice undeserved.
And wrath and wonder. Love, can you not hear
How false my voice rings ? While my lip is curved
■ To studied scorn, do not its accents sear
Your heart with shadowing anguish ? No, ah no !
Too well have I performed my task, too soon
Have, taught aversion ; silent now I go
( Was ever such a bitter day in June ?)
Pierced with the. frozen arrow of your glance.
Whose wound will ache for ever. Save perchance
In brief, rare dreams ivhen I may slip beyond
My stem self-custody, and folloiving free
The guidance of the yearning *, pulsing bond
That spans the gulf between us, I may see
The love-light dawning in your eyes again
And foretaste all that shall be, when at last
Omniscient as our rulers now, we twain
Shall feel each other’s arms about us cast,
And knovfthat though the spheres may cease to roll
Vows cannot limit love, nor gods control.
Oh dearest , these are visions ! This is true:
1 live, and I have looked my last on you.
The long years beckon me, a mournful band,
And each has dropped the poppies from her hand.
E.H.M.
Old “Sydney Punch.”
A PAPER of many associations and
vicissitudes, deaths and resurrections.
Re established, if not founded, in the
hope of doing something more than
had so far been done for literature in Aus-
tralia ; contributed to by the best and brightest
men of their time ; put away now with the toys
that amused us once, but whose interest and pur-
pose is gone.
Punch, was started in Sydney at the date
of the birth of New Australia, when all human
tides of enterprise, adventure and villainy, con-
verging on Port Phillip, swamped the old order
of convietism and worse, A Dr. Revel Johnson
conceived the idea of an Australian. Punch, not
with any very worthy intent. The doctor was
a libeller, a lampooner, an in-and-out-of-gaol
man—and for libels neither justifiable nor excus-
able. He lasted but a few weeks, and then Punch
went down into his box for five years. The
diggers managed to do without him ; although,
had lie struck out as a genuine Australian, there
could have been little doubt of adequate support.
The next start was in 1857, with late Unde-
r Johnson as a leading con-
tributor. A clean paper thence on till the close.
Archie Murray, wood-earver and playwright, was
proprietor and as usual chief loser. A short life
this time, and not a very merry one. Then, a lapse
till the year 18G4, when Walter George Mason,
wood-engraver (once of The Illustrated London
Neivs) roused up the old ghost and re-incarnated it
in better form than previously. (That same Mason
started also The Illustrated Sydney News, a useful
Australian sheet in its time.) From that date
forward Punch had near twenty years of life,
with hardly a break; and during these years
continued to tap the brains of a good many
of the very best men of Australia. Messrs.
Gibbs, Shallard and Co. became printers, in the
old ivy-mantled building nearly opposite the
Currency Lass hotel, in Pitt-street. (What
madness induced any proprietor to change
the name of that old inn?) It was there
that the late H. W. Hicks began the
connection which developed ultimately into the
proprietorship, and it was during these years that
there were names enough on the contents
page to guarantee the success of any paper.
Deniehy, Dailey, Kendall, Martin, Harry Mos-
tyn, Coveney, Frank Hutchinson, G. B. Barton,
poor old P. J. Holdsworth, Monty Scott, Alfred
Clint, Courtenay, Charlie De Boos, T. Moser,
Sheridan Moore, W. A. Daley, Martin (Miss),
Gordon McCrae, Garnet Walch. Everybody who
was anybody in the literary world of that time
seemed to be there. And yet poverty was on the
lintel, decrepitude on the door-posts', and “ please
call again ” pinned to the panel year after year.
J*
What hindered the rise that might so con-
fidently have been predicted ? I find one reason
in a volume of Punch Staff Papers issued from
Punch office in the year 1872. In the preface to
the book this naive admission is made: “We
may here confess to a mistake having been made.
There has been no editor. The result is each con-
tributor is responsible for his own contribution. ”
And the printers’ devil for the whole, we may
assume. There is no doubt at all that here was a
ghastly mistake more than enough to account for
everything. And yet there were other reasons
which I will set forth by-and-by.
What did they do, all these distinguished
people, in the way of making even a crude
beginning with an Australian literature in the
higher vein ? The answer is, Nothing—absolutely
nothing ; and therein is the main cause of their
failure. Badham did a bit of Horace or Virgil
into English. Deniehy reviewed Browning rather
in Edinburgh Review than Punch style ; and that
brilliant gentleman does not rise in one’s estima-
tion when we find it set down in that review that
Browning is unmistakeably the greatest British
dramatist since Elizabethan days, and that it is
extremely doubtful if either Goethe or Schiller
gave the world anything equal to “The Return
of the Druses.” I do not think “Luria” was
written at that time. If “The Return of the
Druses” places Browning above Schiller, “Luria”
should lift him to the same plane with Shakspeare.
Dailey did best with the Chiniquy papers. They
are essentially Punch- y, and fit to have a place
within the covers of the old fellow who first trotted
out Dog Toby. Kendall’s verses would have done
better for Macmillan or Cornhill. Garnet Walch
wrote by the mile, and there were no spots in any
mile fit to be marked with a white stone. Harry
Mostyn did n’t get any hoof-beats or good horse-
talk in; and Frank Hutchinson was always better
fitted for The Saturday Review than for a pro-
fessedly comic paper. The paper was only comic
when some contributor let himself loose. The
attempts at jokes in that period were feeble, the
paragraphing puerile. We scarcely need to be
reminded that there was no editor.
Hicks retired for a while in favour of the late
Neville Montagu, but again came in and again
sold out to Edward Greville. Greville attempted
to put new life in.to the old fellow, whose voice
had become intolerably raucous. He offered for a
new title-page design 20 1., which went to Alfred
Clint, and the page is familiar to all of this
generation who remember the last of Punch.
Greville held on till 1883, when Hicks and J. G.
O’Connor, who had been connected with the paper
from its beginning, became proprietors, but came
to a quarrel over the Redmond brothers. Hicks,
his old Cambridge training stirring him to a
narrow and bitter patriotism, desired to
lampoon the Redmonds, who visited us about that
time, and O’Connor would have none of that.
Consequently there was a split. The broad man
bought the narrow man out, and carried on for a
year. And that was the last year of any Punch
fit to be remembered or talked about. For
Carlisle’s flutter of 1888 is scarcely worth men-
tioning. J. G. O’Connor lost 400 Z. over the
printing, and became, and still remains, residuary
legatee.
It is a doleful sort of story, but only what might
have been expected from a paper started in Aus-
tralia which never dared to be Australian, which
made no appeal to a native Australian genius.
The gossip which lies about its various lives is of
more interest than its actual pages. So many of
its contributors could talk real humour, but wrote
most infernal rot.
J*
Heyday ! It was another sort of world when
Punch was almost on his last legs—-say twenty-
five, even twenty years ago. It was a dull clod
who could not pass a good hour when such men as
Tom Moser, Charlie De Boos, old Frank Brewer,
Hicks, Hutchinson, and some few others met.
They talked of old, old days, and they told old,
old yarns, and with no more reservation than ex-
purgation. Then along a bit was Gus. Wangen-
heim at his inn, the walls thereof covered with a
marvellous panorama of the political and Bohe-
mian life of N.S.W. And Bas. Hodge was not
far away with his saxophone, a monster like the
father of all Meerschaums, out of which he blew
rare music. Richmond Thatcher, moreover, was
to be found thereabout with a joke-wallet always
full. Richmond’s humour was grim and practical;
he was running a paper and a parliamentary can-
didate once, and laid himself out to give the
other fellow a rare dig. He reported his own
man well. And then “ the Opposition candidate
addressed the meeting something after this
fashion.” There followed a column of “ pie.”
Clark Irving, one of the brightest and least
fortunate of our merry men of the wig and
gown, was always in the set, although not
mucli of a writer. He had been a chum
of Lord Rosebery’s at Eton, and they had
many good hours together while Rosebery cl welt
with us very sociably for a while. Alas, Clark
Irving ! He went away with the blue devils, and
I do not think that need have been had all the
people concerned done their duty. Clark used
to tell a good story of Alfred Clint, perhaps the
best of the old Punch artists. Clint, with
'Hutchinson and Hicks (inseparable from Cam-
bridge days onwards) took the trip to Manly, and
a thunderstorm took possession of the city during
their absence. A splash of rain in those days
used to make all the open space between the
water’s edge and the “Paragon” fetlock-deep in
mud. It was the Devil to cross, and if half-a-
dozen cabs were about they were snapped up in
as many seconds. The three stood on the edge of
things, despondent, when suddenly down went
Clint—eyes rolling, muscles twitching. A fit!
and a bad one. “Epilepsy,” said-H. Looks
like it,” replied the other H. “What’s "to be
done?” “Done?” “ Must carry him over to the
Paragon.” So these two middle-aged, dignified
and portly gentlemen uplifted the stricken artist
and bore him to the pub. abreast the quay; fet-
lock-deep in mud whicli splashed abominably.
They took him into an inner room and laid him
on a couch, themselves dead-beat and very filthy.
Then suddenly did Clint upheave his proper self,
all unbesmirched and say, “Let me congratulate
you, oh, my masters ! you have carried genius.
And now what may I offer you to drink?” They
replied, but not exactly in quotable terms.
Good old P. J. used to write for Punch as he
dressed for Shakespear ; not so as to deceive the
elect. G. B. Barton, a highly-intellectual swell
in those days, got off. a lot of venom and paid for
it pretty dearly. Dr. Bad ham was never seen,
never came to town unless something super-
natural dragged him thither. “1 might meet
Parkes,” he would say, “ and I should be picking
up" his aitches in my dreams for a year after.”
Dailey beamed from afar, and was best, as in
many other connections, in talking of bygones.
He was the father of the poor, who were with
Punch always, according to Apostolic prophecy.
I do not think any man with half a tale, real or
concocted, ever approached the little man in vain.
Remember one night, in his own house, an urgent
request coming for two pdunds.■ “ ‘Baby sick ;
wants medicine.’.. Must have it; but if baby
swallows all that, baby will be where the wicked
cease from troubling before very long. .. ‘ Knew
me in old Punch days.’... Ah, yes, I knew many
of them, and they cost me a little money,
but perhaps it did a little good. Poor old
Nomen was the worst (he never gave a man
away). Let us look up Nomen’s record. This is
the butt, I think. January ... yes. Baby born.
Five pounds. Poor baby dead; another five !
September; eldest child broke a leg. Never
believed a word of it; but still . Three more,
I think, in the next year; and then the Lord took
poor Nomen off my hands.”
Kendall, in the mediaeval period of Punch, had
a long paper on the Australian genius or the lack
of it wherein he made a strange assertion : “ The
reason why genius never proved its presence here
may be set down in half a dozen words —genius
never had a chance.” Um ! Punch was estab-
lished mainly to give genius a chance ; and, as it
was for a considerable period unedited, genius,
once admitted, had full fling. Naturally a good
deal of that cheap and common fustian which
masquerades as genius got in under those condi-
tions ; but still, the real stuff had a bit of a field,
and should have made its mark. Can anything
keep true volcanic genius down? Can any super-
incumbent weight render Enceladus motionless ?
Keats had the livery stable behind him, and
poverty all about, a drink passion plaguing him
frequently; Jeffrey’s ice-cold hand on his throat,
and Fanny Brawne on his chest. And yet amongst
all the stars of the firmament ot this world s song,
there are none which shine brighter than the
“Ode to Psyche,” and the “St. Agnes’ Eye.”
Burns went from the plough-tail to the odious
gauger’s work. Poe died at last with only his poor
girl’s petticoat between him and the bitter New
England winter, and yet he had done “The
Raven ” and many a weird melody which will
chime adown the ages. Ido not think such bitter
waters of circumstance were ever found as would
quench the fire kindled by a living coal from the
sole altar. And what then ? Have'the bearers of
the live coals not yet proceeded from the altar
hitherward ? Let the question stand. Ido not
care to venture on a positive reply. But this
much may be said, I do not find evidence affirma-
tive of the presence of the highest inspiration in
any of the pages of those days. Nor yet of such
flakes, parks, and wild-fire flashes as come to
those who know the Bush, and the fire in it
impressing occasionally a command imperative as
that which came unto Moses.
Punch, it may be said, is not the place for that
sort of thing ; but Sydney Punch, through some of
its periods, did certainly endeavour, or propose, to
constitute itself that place. Poor old Punch!
it was clean, it was honest, it was well-meaning.
But, on its own confession, it was generally
unedited. It was not Australian, it was generally,
indeed, contemptuous of things Australian. And
therefore Australia lives and has its being, not all
so bright or sympathetic perhaps as we might
desire ; and Punch is not.
Down amongst the dead men are its contribu-
tors —alas ! so many of them ; and more passing
day by day. It is one continuous harvest-time
with these few who are left. Every month,
almost, sees another sheaf bound ; and .God be
merciful in the threshing and the winnowing !
F.M.


win
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDNE Y.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Are by far the most successful Salesmen
OF
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Babbit and Opossum
SKINS
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE Ol NT M ENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYFLASHES*
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER F-AILC.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
y
MEN'S TREBLE-SEWN LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, oz.-Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS-
-ss, 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WISDEN’S LEATHER BALLS-
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS-
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS.- sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ \No. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
BATS / 6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d, ls6d, 2s, 2s 6d
BOYS’ BATS, \ No. 3 4 5 6
Cane— J 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \ss 6d, 6s fd, 7s 6d, 8s 6d
All Cane— J9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d
MEN’S CANEI
and RUBBER V
BATS— J
14s 6d, 15s, 15s 6d,
17s 6d, 18s 6d, 20s,
16s 6d
25s
Send for Catalogue, Post Free—full
list of Bats, by all Best Makers<
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEG GUARDS—
Poys’, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS—
Boys’, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s 6d, 88s 6d, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
Dersy
3s 6d
riANbICAP
STANbAftb
7s 3d
Ascot
2s Gd
The above are a new departure in
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 255, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players-
30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, &c.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation
Covered Regulation
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg
SLAZENGER’S Covered ..
AYRES’ Grey Reg.
AYRES’ Covered
AYRES’ Champion
4s 6d doz.
9s 6d
10s
16s
8s 6d
12s 6d, 15s
... 16s
TAYLORS
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 16s 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted ... 20s, 24s
TAYLOR’S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias —
Ivory Mounted 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped by the
N.S. W. Bowling Association.
Remittance, including; payment for
freight, must accompany each order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
NATTOTS
For the Weak, Nervous, or Run=Down
flan or Woman !
For Keeping the Liver in thorough
Working Order!
For Driving all Pains and Aches from
the Body!
TONIC
K
OW that the Hot Weather is with us, most people suffer from that weary, care-worn feeling. They have no energy,
no ambition for anything. Their Liver beeves inactive, the Nervous System becomes deranged, and the blood gets
overheated and impoverished; and when your system is in that run-down condition ailments such as WB<&k Back,
Kidney Trouble, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Insomnia, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lucy: L ago, very often make their
appearance if not attended to. Every Man or Woman who suffers from LOSS Of Vitality, or who has that Careworn, Tlrad
Fee! ng, or whose Liver is inactive, should attend to it without delay. You require something that will act on the Liver, and
keep that organ in a thorough working condition, that will drive all impurities from the blood, that will at the same time brace up your Nervous
System, strengthen you, and dispel all Weakness and Lassitude. Dr. EVIcLAUGH LIN’S ELECTRIC BELT will do it for you. It is the
only means on earth that will send a mild, soothing current of Electricity into every part of the body, and in its actions will eradicate all disease.
Everyone who has those feelings requires Electricity. It is a natural element of the human body, which, through neglect, has been allowed to
drain out of the system ; hence you get into a general Run-Down and Weak Condition. You require it replaced, and our Belt will do it for you.
So great are its actions that after a few days use it will drive away all Weakness or Loss of Vitality.
DO NOT BUY AN ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE ABSOLUTELY DECIDED TO TAKE NO MORE DRUGS.
1.
Ox
L\
m
\
mtiu mT
LOOK l See these Cures. They are Genuine Proof of what our Belt will do—
MR. A. BUCHERFIELD, of GAWLER SOUTH, S A. says :-Dear
Sirs,—l have pleasure in stating: that I am very well satisfied with
your treatment, and must say that I am wonderfully improved. I
have had no more Sciatica in my hip since wearing: your Belt, and I
feel better in every respect. Now, Sirs, if every man were to
speculate a pound or two in one of your Beits, he would
say it was a few pounds well spent, as he would enjoy g:corl health
and strength.
MR. S. DOAK, of BONNIE DOON, VICTORIA, writes Dear Sirs, -
I beg: to state that I have given your Belt a fair trial, and the
results have been very satisfactory—l may say wonderful. When I
first sought your advice I could get little or no sleep, and I also had
sevei a! complaints, and now I can work from early morning till ten
o’clock at night, and ! am able to enjoy my sleep after it. lam
also quite relieved of all pain, and I feel as well as I ever did In my
life, and all this I owe to the use of your Electric Belt.
INDIGESTION.
MOLONG, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—l am greatly pleased with the Belt.
The Indigestion left me entirely aiter I wore the Belt
the third time. I now feel grand, and cannot
express my thanks in this small letter.
Wishing your firm a long life of happiness and
prosperity, and thanking you for past favors,
I beg to remain, yours faithfully,
JAMES PEDEN.
RHEUMATISM.
CLARENCE TOWN, N.S.W.
Deir Sirs,—l must sayyour Felt is a wontferful
thingr. I cannot see why people are so blind as not
to sea the virtue of it. The money spent on it is not
thrown away. My pains are leaving: me fast, and by
the next time I write, I expect to be able to say that
I am quite r ght.
Yours truly,
W. LEADBITTER.
RHEUMATIC PAINS.
25 LITTLE VALLEY, BRISBANE, QLO.
Dear Sirs,—l have worn your High-Grade Belt for
thirty days according to directions, and the result is
wonderful. The Rheumatic pains which I have
suffered fcr the last fifteen years have nearly all
left me. I sleep well at night and get up in the
morning as fresh as a daisy.
I remain, yours respectfully
A. C. CAMPBELL.
FREE TO EVERYONE!
Our 64-page Illustrated Book will be sent to all who will write for it. It
deals exhaustively with the use of Electricity for all ailments that it will
cure ; also some of the great cures made. It has cured in thousands of
instances where drugs have failed and cases pronounced incurable. It also
gives engravings showing how the Belt is worn for various complaints.
Everyone should have one—whether ailing or not. If drugs won’t cure
you, send for our advice, and if Electricity won’t relieve you, nothing
lt costs you nothing, and will be found of great value. Sent
FREE, postage paid, to any address in the world.
If you are passing, call and let us show you this appliance—how it is
worked and applied, and how regulated to any force of Electricity.
HOURS OF ATTENDANCE—9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
100 W. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE OFFICE -167 E. SWANSTON STREET
N.Z. OFFICE- 54. WILLIS STREET, WELLINGTON
and Branches all over the World.


2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING
MARINE OIL ENGINES
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
■
e-
;-.r ..-V
Noiseless Uuderwater. «
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KINO ENuiNE— ONE LEVEIi CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
MoDERMiOTX & G O 3MC P AKT Y,
30 PITT STREET, SYD3XTEY.
Flavelle, Roberts $ Sankey,^
Lapidaries » • • •
Gem Merchants and ♦ ♦
Manufacturing Jewellers
«
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
ĥ
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
No. 1.— 3 Fine Brilliant Diamonds £4O, smaller to £lO ; with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamonds, £25.
No. 2.—6 Fine Brilliant Diamonds from £l2 to £5O ; 2 Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires, £lO to £25.
No. 3.—3 Fine Opals and 2 Brilliant Diamonds, £9 ; 3 Fine Pearls
and 2 Diamonds, £l2.
No. 4. —1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
No. 5.—3 Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting, £lO to £l6.
No. 6.—3 Queensland White Topazes and 2 Queensland Rubies £6.
No. 7.—1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £5 ; 1
Queensland Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s.
No. B.—l Fine Pearl and Diamond Cluster, £2B; 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
No. 9. —1 Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubies, £4 10s.
No. 10. —1 Opal and Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
No. 11.—2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
No. 12.—1 Queensland White Topaz (as brilliant as th*
Diamond), £4.
No. 18. —Marquise of Brilliant Diamonds, £lB to £3O.
11
12
13
Send for Booklet on “The Gem
Products of Queensland.”
WE HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OF UNSET OEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 100,000 OEMS ON HAND.
MEN !
Obey the Scriptural injunction:—
“acquit you as men:
BE STRONG
99
THE GRAND OLD DOCTOR.
Surgeon
Langston
M.R.C.S., Bug.
Late Surgeon in Imperial
Forces, Army Medical Staff,
Royal Engineers, formerly
Government Health Officer,
Tasmania, registered in Eng-
land and Australia, and
authorised by Act of Parlia-
ment to practice in all
branches of Medicine and
Surgery.
m
The OLDEST and MOST
RELIABLE SPECIALIST
in all cases of
Nervous Disorders,
Varicocele,
Rheumatism,
Kidney Troubles,
Lame Back,
Rupture*
HIGHEST HEALTH HONORS.
INVENTOR of the LATEST and GREATEST STRENGTH RESTORER.
m
THE TRIUMPH OF MEDICAL ELECTRICITY.
It is NOT a BELT, tout BETTER than ANY BELT.
For Forty Years I have
been curing Thousands
suffering from the same
Weakness
as you.
Let me Cure You.
Many Benefits are lost
through hesitation.
It is easier to give you back
your
Health
now than it will be later on.
SURGEON
LANGSTON’S
Combined Remedies
FOR
Nervous Afflictions
AND
Associate Complaints
ARE TIIE
Reigning Remedies.
“Mens Sana in Cor pore Sana.”
A treatise on Nerve Diseases
and Ailments of Men. The latest
medical thought put in the most
instructive and interestirigiorm.-
Teaches how to gain and retain
a sound mind in a sound body ;
post free for six stamps.
“ Rupture: Its History and Cure.”
A valuable work, showing the
certainty of Restoration without
operation ; post free four stamps.
“Diseases of Mankind.” —A
handy compendium relating to
the symptoms, dangers, and cure
of Nervous Complaint , Kidney
Troubles, Nasal, Throat and
Lung Diseases, and associate
evils ; post free four stamps.
They tell you what you should
know , and what you want to
know.
Consult me FREE, either Personally or by Post.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
129 COLLINS STREET,
Melbourne. Victoria.
THE LAST OF SIX.
Price 6d..,
Post Free.
ħ
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renowne
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St.
SYDNEY-
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors ooW pay for wbat they actOaliy baV«-
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying for a
room on arrival] and Meals as they are had.
Apartments : BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYPNEY.
NOTE.-Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEOROE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
h
ĥ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDf!
MAGNESIA)
ħ
h
i
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
)
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
Barter's
•ITTLE
IVER
PI LLSj
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Priot*
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
mmmrndm**m*mm.
Carter's
t FREE TRIAL
V
J
1
in#"'*
To receive a DR. AUSTIN BELT on free
trial you have simply to drop us a letter or postal
card, and we will arrange to send an appliance.
You can wear it 90 days; then pay us only if
cured. If not, return the belt. That is all.
Thousands have been put out on these terms.
That is the faith we have. Think of it. No
sickening, bad-tasting drugs, no inconvenience,
no loss of time from work or pleasure. You
simply place our belt comfortably about the
waist at bed times, take it off mornings. It sends
a pleasant, warm, soothing current of real life
through the weakened parts while you sleep.
Overcomes Nervousness, Lame Back, Varicocele,
Rheumatism, and all weaknesses of men and
women. Benefits to back and nerves at once.
Upon request we send, in plain envelope, our
FREE BOOK
for Weak Men and Women, telling liow our Belt cures such symptoms. Blanks free for those
wishing a written diagnosis. Our Belts are the highest development in Electro-Curative
Appliances.
Remember: Absolutely Free Trial.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. <De P t.M.)
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
New Zealand Branch- 19 PRINCES STREET, DUNEDIN.


A great many
people wantj
long,
heavy
hair, but
how to
get it,
that is
what puzzles
them. The S
fact is, the
hair needs a
littlo help
now and then.
The roots re-
quire feeding.
4
m
ny,
4L
When the hair is starved, it stops
growing, loses its lustre, falls out,
turns gray. Ayer's Hair Vigor is a
liair-help. It makes the hair grow,
stops it from falling, and completely
cures dandruff.
r's
:or
If your hair is fading or turning
gray, begin at once with Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. It will positively restore color
to your gray hair, all the full, rich
color it had in early life.
As a hair-dressing you will certainly
like it, for it keeps the hair soft and
glossy and prevents it from splitting
at the ends.
Do not bo deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass., U.S.A.
Wore a Torture
BELT.
SUFFERED TERRIBLE AGONY.
From wearing an Electric Belt
charged by the use of
SULPHURIC 71CID.
Mr. W. Folley, Alfred Woollen Mills,
Williamstown, Vic., writing to the Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt Co., tells how he
was scarred and burned by the use of a
Free Belt , which he had erroneously
been led to believe was as good as theirs.
He paid £4 for the Free Belt because
he had been convinced that by paying
this cash price he was obtaining a similar
appliance to Dr. McLaughlin’s Famous
rejuvenator which has gained Wordd
Wide fame as a Curative Agent. It goes
to show how misleading are advertise-
ments which seem to offer something for
nothing.
Gentlemen —In answer to your kind in-
quiries after my health, I beg to state that
I have been completely cured of the Scia-
tica that has troubled me for years. I
cannot thank you enough for your gentle-
manly treatment and fair dealing with your
patients, as I know from others that their
treatment has been the same as mine.
I may just as well let you know my ex-
perience in seeking a cure for my trouble
before I purchased one of your High Grade
Belts. I had been under doctors and re-
ceived scant relief; and also tried various
quacks, but it was all the same. I then
placed myself in the hands of a Specialist
(in Melbourne) guaranteed to cure Rheu-
matism and Sciatica, but received very
small benefit from the treatment. I then
had mv attention drawn to Electricity.
Well, 1 thought, “ Never venture, never
win,” so I PROCURED first of all a Belt
for £l and was very much disappointed
because I was informed that it was neces-
sary to take a long and exceedingly ex-
pensive course of drug treatment. I would
not do this and then I wrote for, and ob-
tained a so-called Free Belt, with a
most “ Wonderful Pedigree,” at a cost of
£4. I wore the Belt according to the in-
structions given faithfully for a period of
five weeks, and by that time I was Burnt
and Blistered so badly that I could not
wear it longer, and still no relief was
gained, although the Belt was guaranteed
to Cure Anything in Sciatica in One
Month. You bet I was very much dis-
couraged in regard to Electric Belts.
However, I was persuaded to come and
just see you, gentlemen. I then found
that I had been wearing a Torture Belt
and very Wrongly Applied, and quite
enough to give and patient a Horror of
so-called Electric Belts. After the con-
sultation I decided to place myself in your
hands. I knew my case was very diffi-
cult, as I was compelled to follow my em-
ployment, and standing at the vice was
irksome, and the complaint was a very
stubborn one. However, gentlemen, your
Belt, coupled with your advice, has made
me a grateful patient. I thank you kindly
for supplying me with a remedy which has,
Completely Cured Me, and strongly recom-
mend it to all and sundry that I find are
suffering from the distressing malady-
called “ Sciatica.”
I have not been wearing the Belt for the
past fortnight, but have passed it over to
my wife, who has received great benefit
for nervous troubles.
I remain, your grateful patient,
W. FOLLEY
GENUINE BELTS give GENUINE RELIEF.
Send to THE DR. McLAUGHLIN CO.,
IOQW. Market-st., Sydney ; 107 A Swanstmi s'.. Melbourne
61 W'illis-st., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Mutual Provident Society-
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Next Distribution of the Profits
as at 31st December, 1903.
Policies Issued before the Close of the Year will share In the bonus to be then divided.
The Amount of Cash Bonus divided among: the members for the single year 1902 was £5 .
(All Bonuses vest on Policies attaining a duration of two years.)
Persons desirous of effecting assurances with this Society are particularly requested to to reap
and to see that their applications are sent in early, either direct or through any of the 530 00 n 1
the benefit of this year’s Bonus. pF~ Accumulated Funds, £19,000,000 ; Annual Income, £2,530,0 .
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman; e °P-
J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winciicombe, Esq., M.P. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; Benjamin Short, Esq. ,
Burns, Esq. General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teecb, F.1.A., F.F. A., F.S.». ,
Head Office—B7 Pitt Street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary _
I
3?
*
mm
Flavelle, Roberts & Sankey, Ltd,,
BRISBANE,
are now manufacturing all classes of
THERMOMETERS & HYDROMETERS.
Any SPECIAL THERHOriETER made to order.
Thermometers, Barometers, etc., repaired at
short notice.
<o
h
ĥ
Double Seated
Turnout Seat
Buggy - £lB lOe.
With Brake and
Lamps.
Sulkies - £8 10s.
Send for a
Catalogue.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex St., Sydney.
ħ
Ed Buggies
Reliable and
Strong:, £9 10a.
Large Stocks of
all light vehicles,
Buggies, Sulkies,
Phaetons. Send
for a Catalogue.
H. HILLIER,
130 Sussex-street
Sydney, u.s.w.
H. F. SMITH
BRISBANE
P=?
21/-
21/-
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wales.
Received Solid Silver Keylesa
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order ; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value —best in Austral-
asia.
Yours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading: Jeweller.
H. F. SMITH,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
WINCHESTER
II MODEL 1902 SINOLE-SHOT RIFLE II
h
THE name “Winchester ” on this
1 rifle is a guarantee in itself of its
quality. The Model 1902 is a hammerless take-
down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly.
It is made with an 18-inch round barrel, fitted with open
front and peep rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22 Long
Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. Some makes of
.22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper, but they are a great
deal cheaper in quality than they are in price. We don t
try to see how cheap we can make this rifle but how good.
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
Our Stock of WINCHESTER GOODS
fs unequalled in the Commonwealth* Catalogues Free.
PERRY BROS. - - -
HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C.P. and C.L.) or Government Stock of
ny of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Intel est.
LOAMS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any finer
, JONES # DEVLIN,
Wool Brokers,
Fat Stock Salesmen,
Stock jcP Station Agents.
Our Charge for selling
Wool of the New Clip
is reduced to
Cent
Being a Consolidated Charge
includes Commission, Insurance
while in Store, Weighing, Cata-
loguing, &e., &c.
Auditn Sales held cn all advertised dates of Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, and all Station Produce.
Stcies and Offices: Circular Quay, Sydney.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ragged Jack.”
ALL in a fair, wide, busy street,
Four old grey walls of stone
Stand grimly, amidst houses neat
And new—a ruin lone.
With golden hopes and visions fair
The Builder’s brain did glow
Who raised those old grey walls in air,
So many years ago.
And, as from day to day he wrought
Upon each rising wall,
He built therein his dearest thought,
And built his heart withal.
He was a lover of the great,
Stern type the old days knew,
With faith as fixed and firm as Fate,
And heart as heaven true.
They say that she was fair to see,
In years long past and dead,
Her yellow hair hung to her knee,
Her lips were scarlet-red.
And as the mirage, false and fair,
Lures lost men on to Death,
She lured him with her shining hair
And with her honeyed breath.
For he was then, as old folk tell,
A man of gallant show ;
With him the world went very well—
’Twas forty years ago.
Yea, young he was, and blithe, and gay,
And walked with springing tread ;
No brighter eyes than his, they say,
Could shine in any head.
And she had made a promise sweet
Which made him feel a king—
That, when the Home was built complete,
Their wedding-bells should ring.
And that was why with visions fair,
And hopes, his brain did glow
Who raised those old grey walls in air
So many years ago.
She left him for a lover old
And rich, of high degree.
The tale to him was swiftly told,
But never word spake he.
No word he spake to man or maid :
But on the building lone
One last stone in its place he laid —
And laid no other stone.
His face grew as the face of one
Who turns him to the wall
And dies ; for light of moon or sun
He cared no more at all.
He cared no more for gear or gold ;
He strove no more for gain ;
The man had suddenly grown old,
With broken heart and brain.
• » • * •
The ruin grim, and all forlorn,
Is slowly turning black ;
“ Rats’ Castle ” it is called in scorn—
Its tenant, “Ragged Jack.”
And there in one small squalid room—
It is a tale for tears —
That lover, in a living tomb,
Has dwelt for forty years.
O give to me the lightsome heart
That soon forgets its pain,
And laughs away the keenest smart—
And turns to love again !
But unto Nature all must bow—
She lias for .each her plan—
The grey old ruin shelters now
The old grey broken man.
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
At the River=Crossing.
OH ! the quiet river-crossing
Where we twain were wont to ride,
Where the wanton winds were tossing
Willow branches o’er the tic.e.
There the golden noon would find us
Dallying through the summer day,
All the weary world behind us—
All its tumult far away.
Oh ! those rides across the crossing
Where the shallow stream runs wide,
When the sunset’s beams were glossing
Strips of sand on either side.
We would cross the sparkling river
On the brown horse and the bay ;
Watch the willows sway and shiver
And their trembling shadows play.
When the opal tints waxed duller
And a gray crept o’er the skies
Yet there stayed the blue sky's color
In your dreamy dark-blue eyes.
How the sun-god’s bright caresses,
When we rode at sunset there,
Played among your braided tresses, -
Gleaming on your silky hair.
When at last the sunlight’s glory
Faded off the sandy bars,
There weTeanit the old, old story,
Riding homeward ’neath the stars.
Tis a memory to be hoarded—
Oh, the foolish tale and fond !
Till another stream be forded —
And we reach the Great Beyond.
N.S.W.
THE BREAKER (LSUS).


A NOVEL PRESENT.,^*
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 6/- we will forward to
anv address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In lfict. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Cook Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
THE ELECTRIC ERA
Sri
if <
'£LeCrR(C/Ji
3
I
Which we send FREE
TO ALL explains WHY
weak men are WEAK,
and STRONG men are
STRONG. It deals
comprehensively with
the CAUSES and
SYMPTOMS of disease.
It explains their
ORIGIN and shows
how they can be
SPEEDILY CURED by
restoring the consti-
tutional VITALITY
to the NERVOUS and
physically WEAK
MAN or WOMAN. It
tells you how LAME
BACK, KIDNEY
TROUBLES, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA,
ASTHMA, BRON-
CHITIS, INDIGES-
TION and TORPID
LIVER can be CURED. How WEAKNESS and
DEBILITY can be replaced by ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOR. It is of VITAL interest to the SICK, the
SUFFERING and the WEAK. It is sent in a PLAIN
SEA LED envelope, and is FREE TO ALL. Call or write.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
Dept. H., 63 Elizabeth-st., Sydney*
EVERY WOMAN
h
is interested and should know
about the wonderful-
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, 6ent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. ' Endorsed by Fhyslclnns.
. Times Building, NY#
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
THE MARVEL GO. OF AUSTRALIA,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G-P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed
ĥ
“ ACTS TIKE A CHARM,
JONES’
»»
Hheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CURE
Gout, Rheumatism,
Pheumatb Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica anti Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
2 S . 9d. PER BOTTLE
SOLE PROPRIETORS —
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
and 29 Niagara Laue, Mjibaurn*
"1
pWOFEfeSOH /V\U d'd’S
t «N^' ON fUR
v t«NTHOS^
l TOP 5 Vi air falling out-
Prevents Baldness -
-PRICE S./Q POSTED 3/31
KROMO
GIVES LI PE V COLO R TO ORLY HAIR
•V
1 r U *JT r ' VJ
CONTAINS NO ACIDS -
Posted
5/,
ħ
FOR BABY’S SHIN
SCW AND MR
Something for Mothers to Think About
EVERY CHILD bom into the world with an inherited
or early developed tendency to distressing, disfiguring
humours of the skin, scalp, and blood, becomes an object
of the most tender solicitude, not only because of its suf-
fering but because of the dreadful fear that the disfigura-
tion is to be lifelong and mar its future happiness and
prosperity. Hence it becomes the duty of mothers of
such afflicted children to acquaint themselves with the
best, the purest, and most effective treatment available,
viz., THE CUTICURA TREATMENT.
Warm baths with Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and soales
and soften the thickened cuticle, gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, to instantly allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, to be followed in the severer cases by mild doses of Cuticura Resol-
vent Pills (see below), to cool and cleanse the blood, are all that can be
desired for the alleviation of the suffering of skin-tortured infants and
children and the comfort of worn-out, worried mothers. A single set is
often sufficient to cure when the best physicians fail.
Millions of Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for
cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping of falling hair, for
softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings,
and channgs, in the form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
Cuticura Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated) are prepared to meet the wants of
delicate women, and sensitive children, and are pure, sweet, and tasteless. They are
beyond question the most successful blood purifiers and humour cures yet Compounded.
Cuticuba Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq , London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Fail, Paris. POTTEB Drug and Cdkm.
Cobf., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A. " All about the Skin.” free.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I’O DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES ”• Vest O,Uy * SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral WATERS, CORDIALS. &0.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
ANDRADES
LIST OF
ROOKS
h
ĥ
BOOK OF NATURE and IL-
LUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over fiO engravings,
3s 6(1, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,.
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, ,Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise :Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
l»y Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Odr New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
ANl> any book you want.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats,' Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6 :
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORST COUGH vS.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during’ their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
J. LANDES,
108 Pitt St., Sydney.
The Largest and most reliable House in
Australasia for Automatic Machines and
Novelties of every description.
The biggest Money Making Machines for
Hotels, Refreshment Rooms, Tobacco-
nists, etc., always in stock, and each
machine guaranteed.
The following are some of our best known Machines
in use:
The “ Challenge ” Punching Machine—ld. Slot
The Novelty Pool Table Machine (game skill)—3d. Slot-
pays value in goods.
The “ Australia 6 Slots Spots and P. Machine—3d. Slot
—pays value in goods.
The Monte Carlo—6 Slots Machine—3d. Slot—pays value
in goods.
The Electric Pocket Lights, with extra recharge, reduced
from 218. to 10s. 6d.
All Goods shipped freight paid.
SWOur Illustrated Catalogue free on application.
NERVOUSNESS.
&OSS ol ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a BIMPLH MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
Sand Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
.Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
BEFORE GOING TO BED
USE
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth
Powder
instead of leaving your teeth exposed
all night to the spread of decay.
It is antiseptic, pleasant and
refreshing, and has the largest sale
of any dentifrice.
CALVERT’S
Prickly-Heat Soap
(10% Crystal Carbolic)
is a pleasant antiseptic soap, specially suited
for bath and toilet use in hot climates.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester
ENGLAND.
i’iiii bALLJii' tiIKL
ħ
Htr Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fr«s, I*
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Fr«Si
tend stamp for Illustrated Lists 0/ Books and Novelties
tYiadame Panza,
BOX 913. 0.P.0.. eVDN«y-


A DISMAL TIME.
Vitality Restored to
an Enfeebled System.
The Case of IV|r. A. W. LYON.
(by our special reporter.)
Among the instances in which an attempt
has been made to deal with questions attain-
ing a wide popularity is that appearing here-
under, and the facts that have been adduced
by Mr. Alfred William Lyon, of No. 56
Brougham-street, Glebe, will enable a fairly
intelligent man to come to a definite con-
clusion upon those phases of the subject
about which he may now be doubtful.
“I can trace the origin of my adversities
to a mishap which I encountered Whilst in
the act of taking a stone from the hoof of a
horse,” said Mr. Lyon to our reporter. “ As
I stooped to raise his hoof I received a kick
on the head, and although I was almost
stunned I managed to pick myself up, and
was making my escape when the horse
kicked me again, but that time on my
ribs.”
“It is a wonder you were not killed,”
interrupted the writer.
“It is, indeed ; but I was not out of
danger fora long time, as I was laid up for
fourteen weeks and became quite a wreck.
When at last my injuries were repaired I
went back to work, although I was almost
too weak to do so, and on the 20th March,
1599, I again met with another accident. I
was removing scenery and effects to a
theatre, and whilst taking a heavy box to
the cellar I severely strained myself. Mind
you, I felt pains about the kidneys from the
time I was first injured, but I did not think
they were in any way diseased. I thought
the pains were ihe direct result of the heavy
blow I had received, but the acute torture
which now caught me across the back made
me realise only too bitterly that my kidneys
were greatly disordered. When I stooped
I could not get up again, and had to sit
there. Such terrible agony I had never ex-
perienced before. 'I here was a sharp pain
in my side as if the flesh was being drawn
from me, and I could not remain in an up-
right posit ion for the excruciating tortures
that were bearing me down.”
“ I suppose you iviyre compelled to leave
your woi k again ?’ > gfe
“ Indeed I was, afifl was so helpless that
for three weeks I could not leave my bed. I
really thought it was all over with me, my
parents also being deeply concerned at the
ten ible condition I was in. You see, I fell
aw ay in flesh so rapidly that at the end of
the third week after my accident I was two
stone lighter. There is no doubt that I was
just like a shadow, and so miserable at
being ill and unable to do my work that I
did not have a moment’s cheerfulness of
mind either day or night. I never had the
least desire for food, the smell of which
turned me sick, and if by any chance 1 did
succeed in getting anything down, every bit
of it came back again, for I hardly
remember a meal which was not soon
followed by a v olent fit of vomiting. That
was the main reason why I become so fright-
fully thin, but another cause of the hopeless
feeling which weighed on my spirits was
that I could not get a quarter of the amount
of sleep I requited. Through lying down
all day my body was so racked with aches
that I could never feel comfortable, bub
occasionally I became so overcome with
fatigue that I dozed off in spite of all my
tortures, and even then I was not much
better off, as I always had horrible dreams
that woke me up with a trembling start.
VV oat a dismal life it was to be sure ! My
head ached to such a maddening extent that
I could not bear the weight of my hair, so I
had it shaved off. If I stood up I felt top-
heavy and dizzy, and had to hold on to
something tc steady myself, while the
swollen feeling about my eyes was so dis-
tracting that sometimes I could hardly see.
This dreadful state of affairs went on for
seventeen or eighteen iron hs, increased
| *uffering being my portion from day to
I day ; and I can tell you I was thoroughly
sick and tired of it all. My stomach
| bulged out with wind, which also
gave me a lot of pain, and many
an anxious fear I have had through my heart
palpitating to excess. I ceased to care how
things would end, for I was almost too weak
to hope for a recovery, and everything
possible seemed to go against me. Why,
even my taste was destroyed by a sense of
bitterness which would not go away, and
my tongue was so rough that it was more
like a brush than anything else. The
medicines I took to remove my painful
symptoms were not the least good to me,
and when there was not a thread of hope to
cling to I realised what an awful thing it is
to suffer in despair. I gave up asking
advice, but the best I had yet received came
when it waB most urgently required.”
“ What advice was that ? ”
“It was to take Clements Tonic, and as I
was willing to take anything at all, I bought
some—not that I thought it would cure
me ; but when I had drank one bottle I wa3
certainly no worse, so I purchased a couple
more. Then 1 seemed to liven up a bit, as
though Clements Tonic had put some
vitality into my enfeebled system, and in
another week I found that this idea wa3
right, sure enough. The suffering I had
endured all these months was undoubtedly
minimised, the pains in my back being won-
derfully relieved, and, to my utter astonish-
ment, iny appetite came back. Very little
more time elapsed before the vomiting
troubles had entirely ceased, and from then
I moved along quickly to the recovery of
my health, which nothing but Clements
Tonic could bring about. I felt as jubilant
as any man could be, and who won hi not
feel so at such a surprising liberation from
physical captivity! A new and happy
existence came to me by using Clements
Tonic, which rectified dizziness, headaches,
and stomach pains so surely that they have
never troubled me since, and by soothing
and quietening my nerves I gained so much
comfort from the use of that medicine that
I was soon able to sleep as soundly as I
could when a boy at school. My mouth
was freed from its nasty taste, my tongue
was cleaused, and in all respects I gained
by using Clements Tonic, even to being
released from the pains in my side and
chest and having my heart affections
abolished. I was soon able to go back to
work, but my employer did not know me, I
had altered so ; but by sticking to Clements
Tonic the lines of suffering were obliterated
from my face, and my body again filled out
with flesh.”
“ Did Clements Tonic cure you thorough-
“ I can conscientiously say it did, and as
I am sure Clements Tonic is the most
reliable medicine in the country, I always
recommend it to my friends, and you may
publish our conversation in any way you
want.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I. Alfrkd William Lyox, of 56 Brougham-street,
Glebe, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare
that 1 have carefully read the annexed document,
consisting of five folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and that it contains and is a
true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic: and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any
payment; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney this thirtieth
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two,
before me,
W. F. L. BAILEY, J.P.
mm
Kit*
V^-V-x?
SS
tvi; ,
58E
jpsal^o/w..
Kseverythinc
, l'\
tjon this paper
ilpilloLLlNS ST
jSitS&MELBOURNE
*
NO
Darkroom
C'
Wi
m
FOR THE BUffi WoRKEF
Ctm-Bute
h
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barooo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAiVI-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JJOTICE TO JVHS&BOURNE VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF tor
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101*3. «*^»CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Publio and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Z/or&tuLet Rights
JnfcuiU
TRY U
*s%cr
ĥ
Refuse a// /m/fa f/o ns
Satisfying. Strengthening Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible. Nourishing
AGEA/ES EOP SYD//£y.
SAYERS AILPOAr <* POTTER
RIDGE'S FOOD MILLS. LONDON. Emc.
DEBILITATED
WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let ns send you a.
trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will he more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-atreet, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, igor, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
'Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
-within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars fres.
W. LANGSTON, m.r.c.s., En*..
129 Collins-st., Me bourne.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
SYDUEY.
•w-rca-CT
SPOONER’S
V
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and'Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottlf) , Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Em
Sold by all Storekeeptrt,
Boot Shopt, Saddltri, tie.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
ħ
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separated examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. TKB
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
Cockroaches!
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
FOR
Indigestion, Biliousness and
Acidity.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS IN
OLD AND YOUNG.
I’ll Try It.’
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEIV, N.s. VV. Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGS STREET, SYO^cY.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ;. Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W.
Directlor.s for Use. —Throw the Carbide down the tub
the Machine does the rest.
hr*
to ho vs*
Beware of infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained several
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply 0. rbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than is
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. ISO.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia. Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poinguicstrk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
TRUMAN'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroyp
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold ij» two siZKSi 9d.At Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Pojngdkstrb & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


h
Insist
Upon
Having:
It.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
—MEMORY.
PELMAN’S SYSTEM.
Is your Memory unreliable ?
The Memory can be Developed and Im-
proved by proper training just as the
muscles of the body are developed and
strengthened by proper exercises.
PELMAN’S
System of memory Training
is a practical system of proved value based
upon well-known psychological principles.
Increases Mental Capacity In every
case. Invaluable to Students.
Explanatory Book sent Post Free on application
to the Secretary.
( gelman’s (School of graining,
MELBOURNE, G.P.O. Box 402.
London, 4 Bloomsbuiy-st., W.O. ; U.S.A., 1608 Masonic
Temple, Chicago ; South Africa, Lynn Buildings, Durban ;
Germany, Mozart-str 9, Munich ; France, 109 Avenue de
Neuilly, Baris.
my A Progressive Dietary suited to the Growing Digestive Powers .
The *
9
Young Infants thrive and sleep well, and are contented
and happy, being saved from the digestive troubles common to
those fed on farinaceous foods, condensed milk, or even cow’s milk.
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to three months.
Milk Food no. 2.
From three to six months.
Malted Food n 0.3.
From six months and upwards.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding and Management free from
195, Bourlte Street, Melbourne.
TKkIaEN & HytNBItRYS la t-d., bONPON-
When Cricket is over
then the Elections.
When the Elections are over-
then Christmas.
ĥ
a
I m
fcjfc
RP
O
o
tP&rC* iIU £> L. K, V : ;. .
|-SgCREt-M&Y STONE 'PBes&HVINC‘LIQUID. ,
Si
isfe
Ip,
OOF l N G
u.
s Uilttib CMBO3SEO Class*-;
_:. • .?' - Mantel Pieces
&
This Building was erected at the last Royal Agricultural Shay, Melbourne, by our Victorian Agents,
Messrs. BROOKS, ROBINSON & SO., LTD., Melbourne.
For Sale at all Stores, and
and by our AGENTS as
follows: —
J 4 M, FERGUSON, Ltd*,
Freemantle, W 4 A 4
A, W, SANDFORD & CO 4 ,
Adelaide, S*A 4
HEDLEY BUTTON,
Launcesion, Tas.
JAMES W. JACK,
Wellington, N.Z.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0, 1245.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1903.
Prior 6n.
JOHN HAYNES’ JABBERWOCK.— (See Plain English.)
J. HAYNES: “Beware the Jabberwock, the jaws that bite, the claws that catch.”
LITTLE BOY AT MANLY : “Poor old Jack! He’s got ’em again!”


NOTICE TO AGENTS AND OTHERS.
The next issue of THE BULLETIN will
be published a day earlier than usual (on
Wednesday, 30th December).
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
EOT ICR.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
Special. Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the " Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO tvords, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable 3fS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A tnateurs in lilaclc and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adaptedfor direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions .will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Cevlon .—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
T^^&tzlZeizoi.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1903.
The Triumph—and Where New South
Wales Doesn’t Come In.
The Australian election is ovei’, and it leaves
things, on the whole, better than they were. The
Deaktn Ministry, unless it quarrels with the
Labor party, still stands four-square against the
winds of heaven. If the Labor party is elimi-
nate!, theDEAKiN party is distinctly stronger than
the Reid party. Therefore, even if the Labor
party shcu'rl. by some improbable combination of
events, transfer its alliance to the Reid party —
through Reid repeating his famous offers to
abandon Freetrade, and to pass a strong
Arbitration Bill, or for some other cause—a
Reid Ministry wouldn’t be so strong as the
Deaktn Ministry is now, and it would depend
more upon Labor support, and would have to
grovel to Labor very earnestly indeed to hold
office—even more earnestly than when the grovel-
ling of N.S.W. State Premier Reid to Labor-leader
M ‘Go wen was the jest and scoff of the Sydney
press But though the figures have not
shifted materially in the aggregate, the balance
of power as among the States has shifted to a
certain extent. New South Wales has become a
shade more Tory, more reactionary, and more
Freetrade —that curious variety of Freetrade
which consists in damning Protection and yet
practising it to a considerable extent, and shriek-
ing about the blessedness of Freetrade, yet pro-
mising not to provide the blessings if the party
gets into office. Regarded as a victory for Free-
trade, the proceedings in N.S.W. were a dire
failure, for every Freetrade candidate, without
exception, secured his seat by promising or imply-
ing that he would not practise Freetrade if he got
into office. The man who declared that he yearned
after the blessings of pure Freetrade was
everywhere. The man who declared that he
would vote for having the alleged blessings—for
abolishing the Protection granted to wine, beer,
sugar, tobacco, and everything else, for abolishing
the preferential railway rates in favor of local
agricultural produce, for raising the bulk of the
revenue by direct taxation as in England, and for
letting in the rjfreshing breeze of free competi-
tion, and making the country rich and prosperous
with his blastiferous nostrum—he was absolutely
nowhere. But though the N.S.W. vote was not
much of a success for Freetrade, it was a consider-
able victory for parochialism, for internal
jealousy, and for the campaign of lies, slanders,
and misrepresentations which the Reid party
conducted. Also, the ineffective Yellow Pup of
sectarianism had a look in and gained very little
thereby.
* * * *
The greater part of N.S.W. decided, by its
vote, to t>3 still the lone, sulky, separate, sore-
headed minority in the Australian Parliament.
Australia is still Protectionist—a shade more
Protectionist than before; but though N.S.W.
asked the other States to coalesce with it in the
first place, and did so with a full knowledge of
their policy, the dominant faction of the State
still reviles that policy, and reviles its partners,
and insists on being’ the lank and dismal
exception weeping by itself in the corner.
Therefore Victoria, as the State which supplies
the strongest contingent to the ruling party,
will, of necessity, run the show to a very great
extent. While N.S.W. insists on wailing by
itself on a back seat things can’t be otherwise.
The majority must rule, and the State which
supplies the largest section of the majority
must do most of the ruling. The principal
change is that N.S.W. has decided to keep
rather further aloof, to be more of the solitary
irreconcilable, to howl more lamentably in its
corner. By declaring itself more bitterly hostile
to the other States than it was before, it has com-
pelled the other States to be more definitely a
coalition, in the interests of Australia, against
N.S.W. Where there are five men and a gorilla,
the_ five men are naturally one party and the
gorilla, the other, and a majority in N.S.W., under
the guidance of Geokge Reid and the Telegraph
and Herald, has resolved to be the gorilla.
When N.S.W. decides against the policy of the
great majority, then the only way that Australia
can be governed is by shutting N.S.W. almost
completely out of the real work of governing
Australia. The minority has to expect that sort
of thing.
* * * *
It is not only on the fiscal question that N.S.W.
has done its best to cut itself adrift from Austra-
lian sentiment. N.S.W. was the first State to
adopt the Education Test for the exclusion of
black aliens and foreign criminals, and when
George Reid passed his famous law to that effect
it cheered wildly about its advanced and pro-
gressive legislation. Then the Commonwealth
adopted and improved and honestly enforced the
old N.S.W. law, with the cordial support (at the
time) of the Reid party. But because the Deakin
Government was Protectionist and was supported
by Victoria, the Herald and Telegraph and the
politically infamous George Reid told N.S;W., a
little later, to denounce the law it itself intro-
duced to Australia, and to declare it a
degrading Victorian outrage on the “liberty of
the subject.” And a very large section of
N.S.W., with a servility which was beyond all de-
scription, obeyed. It gave a Black Labor vote and
a vote for the free introduction of foreign criminals
—at least, its vote goes that way, if the men it
returned have the courage of their opinions. The
progressive party, the party which wants to keep
Australia white, to keep out foreign criminals,
and to keep down foreign borrowing, has its
strength mostly in Queensland, Victoria, Westralia
and S.A., but in this respect also N.S.W. has
decided to be, in the main, a lone and .cantan-
kerous item sobbing in an angle of the premises.
The ruling section in N.S.W. has decided to
keep so strictly aloof from the policy of the rest
of Australia, that either N.S.W. must govern the
other five States or the other five States must
govern N.S.W., and, as the former is impossible,
the latter is inevitable. The only way in which
N.S.W. can get any reasonable share in the work
of governing Australia is by giving up its role of
antiquated and obstructive hermit in a cave, and
deciding to be an ordinary fellow creature.
» * * *
Some other curiously inverted results of the
attitude of N.S.W. are the strengthening of the
Federal Labor party and the splitting up of the
Yellow Pup vote. The Labor party dominates the
House of Representatives solely by reason of the
cantankerous and secluded minority from N.S.W.
It was a remarkable result to be achieved by the
bigoted Toryism of Bruce Smith and the retro-
gression of Reid and the antiquated fossilism of
the Herald and Telegraph, but they arrived at
the result most successfully. While a solid
N.S.W. phalanx of Freetraders (who don’t believe
in Freetrade) sits, wrapped in gloom, on the Oppo-
sition benches, Labor will hold the casting vote
and run the show—if it wants to run it. There is
no hope that Protectionists who follow their belief
will give it up in deference to the sham Free-
tr iders who haven’t enough faith in their own
creed to use it when they are in power; so, while
the faction of Reid, and the two Smiths, and the
two Sydney Freetrade dailies which are so mad at
losing their own 50 per cent, of Protection, prevails
in N.S.W., the breach is irreparable. And while
that breach remains no party can form or maintain
a Ministry except by the aid of the Labor mem-
bers, and on their terms—if they like to impose
terms. The Bulletin likes this arrangement as
little as does Bruce Smith and co., but for a
different reason. It wants to see the Labor party
develop into a National party, get a wider and
more progressive platform, and take the responsi-
bility of forming a Government itself, instead of
being merely a tail and selling its support in
return for concessions. But meanwhile the
present arrangement is something to go on with ;
and the fact that the power of the Labor party
arises out of the dull incapacity of the nigger-
loving and Tory Bruce Smith, and the blindness
of the party that howls along with him against
“ Labor domination, ” is something that is calcu-
lated to make the gods look down on the creeping
myriads of Smiths in wonderment.
* * • •
The Dill Macky faction in N.S.W. managed
its affairs as badly as the rest. It threw in its lot
with the importers, and lent its Bible and its
alleged deity and its Dill to the party which
seeks to deprive Australia’s mostly-Protestant
workman of a job, in order that the much more
Catholic workman outside may supply the
goods instead and make the profits. Now,
as a consequence, the N.S.W. members who
arrived on the Protestant ticket must sit in
opposition to the much larger Protestant
section from the other States. They help
to form the sore-headed minority from the
least Protestant State of the Union, and help it
to curse the Protestant Deakin Government and
the strongly-Protestant States of Victoria and
S.A. from which that Government derives the
bulk of its direct support. The Protestant vote
is split in two; the bulk of it is Protectionist, but
the Freetrade section of it from N.S.W. helps to
nullify that. If the Dill Mackyists from N.S.W.
were a Catholic conspiracy, formed to hold
N.S.W., the most Catholic of the States, aloof
from the more Protestant States of the South, and
to create all possible ill-feeling against these
southern States, and to do its utmost to drag
down the present strongly Protestant Govern-
ment, and to promote the interests of foreign
Catholics in Australia, the position would be un-
derstandable. As it is, it seems to show that in-
telligence is one thing and beautiful clerical calves
are quite another.
* * * *
One thing which seems reasonably certain is
that the recent electoral campaign will give a bad
set-back to the attempt to fix the Federal capital
at Lyndhurst, or anywhere else near Sydney.
That campaign has made Sydney appear, in the
eyes of Australia at large, as the most degraded
and morally infected spot in the Commonwealth.
Its morning press carried on the campaign with a
wealth of curse and vituperation directed at other
States in general, and at Victoria in particular,
which had no parallel. The always unscru-
pulous Telegraph, and the once pious but
now degraded S.M. Herald, went, so far
in their campaign of lies and frenzied mis-
representations as to almost directly charge
Premier Deakin with murder, on the strength
of weird insinuations about the imaginary
drowning of some shipwrecked colored sailors,
said to have been refused the right to land
on this inhospitable shore because of the Aliens
Anti-immigration Law. The same lie was
circulated in other places, but nowhere was it
told with such rage and fury and circumstance as
in Sydney, and in no place was it reiterated so
persistently by excited politicians, and in no place
was it accompanied by such violent denunciation
of the sister States of the Union. The invitation
to fix the Federal city as close as possible to
Sydney must now appear to the other States
merely as an invitation to fix it within con-
venient mud-throwing distance of the most
coarsely virulent, degraded, and unscrupulous
press in Australia. It is an invitation to come as
near as possible to Dill Macky. It is especially
an invitation to the Victorian members, who form
the bulk of the Government following—and who
do so simply because N.S.W., in the main, is
resolved to be an angry and miserable person
sulking in a corner—to place themselves within
easy hearing distance of a press which regards
“ Victorian ” as the worst epithet it can throw at
its enemy. Unless some complete political revo-
lution upsets the present order of things, and
turns everybody’s ideas into a new channel,
Sydney, with its black labor politicians, and its
howl for the free admission of foreign criminals,
.and its morning press which hardly stops short of
false accusations of murder in order to suppress
a political opponent, will probably be regarded as
a place from which the capital of a progressive
White Australia should be as far removed as
possible.
• * * *
And the most unaccountable circumstance is
that all this frenzy on behalf of Freetrade is
raised by a party which, j udged by its record, would
sooner die than practise its alleged gospel or ex-
perience the alleged blessings of its faith. It was
in power in N.S.W. for nearly half-a-century,
and the highly-Protective tariff of Bruce
Smith and M'Millan was a shocking thing for
any pure Freetrader to look at. Even under
Reid N.S.W. raised £700,000 a year by Protective
duties, and spent about £500,000 a year in bonuses,
direct and indirect, to local industries. Every
Freetrade candidate at the recent election appealed
to the people on the ground that he wasn’t going
to practise pure Freetrade, that he wasn’t going
to make the country great and rich and pros-
perous by the full application of his beneficent
gospel, that he knew how to save the country and
would see the country hanged first, that he
wouldn’t “throw the tariff into the melting pot,”
but only “prune off excrescences” and admit
niggers and foreign criminals. If the dominant
F reetrade party amon g N. S. W. poli tici ans believed
in Freetrade and desired to get into power
in order to adopt Freetrade, the position would
be at least intelligible. But the members of that
party demand that they should be put into office
in order to adopt a large measure of Protection,
and yet insult Protectionists, and declare falsely
that any prosperity which follows their semi-Pro-
tective policy is the result of Freetrade. The
whole position is unintelligible, except on the
assumption that enough Freetrade is wanted to
let M‘Millan’s calico in free, and that two
infuriated morning papers would turn Australia
upside-down in order to recover the Protection of
their gratis postage.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Election Slanders.
On the morning of election day Sydney Tele-
graph did a thing that was refreshing in its
ingenuousness. It headed the effort “Election
Slanders,” and proceeded thus :
The heat engendered by a keenly-contested election is
generally held to excuse a certain amount of tongue-
license which under other circumstances would not be
permitted. It would be useless at any time to complain
of that. But there is a limit to even this, and when that
limit is wilfully and persistently transgressed, the effect
in any wholesome-minded community will always be to
injure the side on which such tactics are employed. In
two metropolitan constituencies personal slander has
this time been used against the selected Freetrade can-
didates to an extent that has, fortunately, been very
seldom witnessed in the bitterest election contests
known to our history. The efforts made at Lang to stab
Mr. Johnson by every kind of false and disgraceful
innuendo furnish lamentably conspicuous examples of
this fact. ... In South Sydney, also, this kind of fight-
ing has been largely availed of throughout the whole
campaign. ... It is gratifying that on the Freetrade
side none of these degrading election devices have been
resorted to. Everywhere, as far as reports go, the elec-
tion has been clean.
This weep from such a source is a unique speci-
men of moral dampness. The Telegraph and
some other papers, but more especially the
Telegraph, went further in the way of foul and
dirty-minded personal slander than was probably
ever before known in Australia. They got as
near as they could well venture to accusing every
member of the Australian Government of cold-
blooded murder. When the colored seamen of a
stranded ship were taken off in safety, well cared
for, and transferred to a vessel bound homewards,
they shrieked in a carefully-selected tone till they
really persuaded ignorant people that these
shipwrecked Asiatics had striven to swim ashore
in a raging sea, and were drowned because
the Commonwealth Ministers refused to
let them land. If a carefully-implied charge of
brutal murder wasn’t something in the way of
“ personal slander ” it is difficult to imagine what
is. The Freetrade papers, and sundry poiliticans
of their way of thinking, carried personal slander
to an extent that should put them out of the
pale of decent society. Behind every paper which
lies and maligns there is somewhere the personal
and individual liar and slanderer, the hired per-
verter and anonymous slayer of character. So
long as decent men will take that individual’s
unpleasant hand, and so long as decent women
will associate with him, Australia isn’t likely to
have any more honorable press than it has. And
some sections of the present press could hardly
be more dishonorable if they tried.
■>
The Crains and the Losses.
Nowadays fights end, for one’s own side, in only
two ways—in Victory or Moral Victory. The
main difference between them is that about three
lines of figures suffice to prove the one; the other
calls for a lively imagination and several columns
to put it in, and the Foreign-trade papers
have supplied both. All the elocpience called for
by a victory such as that which was won last
week by the Federal Labor party, can, on the
other hand, be put as briefly as follows:
Labor. Opp. Minis. Total.
Old M’s.P. Missing ..1 11 9 21
New M’s.P 13 6 2 21
Gain 12 Loss B Loss 7
But to a very great extent Laborites .and Minis-
terialists faced Australia together, so they share
the victory. Necessarily it had to be so; they
were allies before the elections, and the Minis-
terial programme was based upon the alliance
continuing. Hence an Oppositionist, but no
Ministerialist, opposed Labor-leader Watson.
No Ministerialist, except Glassey, opposed the
Labor three in Queensland, and Glassey went
upon his own responsibility. It was the same in
South Australia and Westralia. Wherever the vote
would be split and the seat imperilled, no Minis-
terialist was run. This accounts for the some-
what heavy Ministerial losses as compared with
Ministerial gains; it also, to some extent, accounts
for the remarkable Labor gains. The figures of
the two parties can only be sundered, therefore,
by using some violence. Reckoned together, as
they must be, the allied party has gained one
seat from the Foreign-trade and Colored
Labor party in the Representatives and
four seats in the Senate. In'' 'the few
cases where there was no dange. of letting
a Reidite in, and where Laborites and Minis-
terialists therefore met, the verdict in almost
every case was in favor of the Laborites'
more advanced policy. In Victoria the Senate
contest resolved itself into something more even
than this. It was the first chance the State
had to say what it thought of all those forces
which lately gathered round Irvine to squeeze
the railway men, to wrong the ‘civil servants, to
oppress the aged poor, and to dodge land-taxa-
tion ; and the answer was a magnificent triumph
for the enemies of Irvineism. For Syme it was
an even more bitter pill. With all the
strength of the Age, lie strove to force upon
the State the politically decrepit M’Culloch;
and then he had the humiliation to find the hated
Trenwith poll two to M‘Cullooh’s one. The
Argus four fell in even more badly, but then they
were regarded as a cumbrous joke from the first.
Queensland spoke most plainly on the colored
labor question ; and, knowing it best, it thundered
against it. John Murray, who announced that
he had never believed in a White Australia and
never would, was left, among the party candi-
dates, hopelessly at the bottom of the Senate
poll. That was Australia’s answer to his chal-
lenge. In Westralia and S. Australia the position
was almost the same; there, with a White
Australia, was pressed home hard the need
of financial straight-dealing. In S. Aus-
tralia more ought to have been done.
Every contested seat went to Laborites —three
places in the Senate and two in the Represen-
tatives ; and yet three Reidites were permitted to
go back unchallenged. The Laborites here suf-
fered, perhaps, from excessive modesty. They
did not realise how deep an impression, not
only their own Federal men, but their clean,
honest, straight-going, hard-fighting little State
Labor party had made. And it was in this very
respect that the party was handieappedin N.S.W.
Admirable as the record of the Federal Labor
party is, the people,_ many of them but newly
enfranchised, judged its candidates and its calibre
only by the State Labor party. And that was both
unfair and disastrous to the Federal party.
The gross result is that, while no single party has
a majority in either House, Labor has in the
Senate a solid 14 out of 36 members. With
R. C. Baker in the chair, and Trenwith
and Styles incapable of joining a Tot}’
alliance, there would need to be a combination
of every other member in the House to make a
majority against it. In practice, therefore, no
Federal legislation can now be carried against the
Labor party’s will. This is power; and it is also
responsibility. But, on the party’s past record,
The Bulletin isn’t afraid.
4
The Unchaining' of the Jabberwock.
The bitterest yowl of the election campaign was
the letter of Johnny Haynes, M.L. A., to Sydney
Telegraph, stating that N.S.W. was a betrayed
and flabbergasted State, and that the jabberwock
had broken loose ; and calling a meeting to
arrange for secession. The following few re-
marks represent John at his best :
The worst fears of those who were opposed three years
ago to the Federal scheme have been more than realised.
New South Wales has been voted down by State or colony
compact, and the heel of arrogance, ignorance, and in-
justice is upon us.
In the Senate our last vestige of hope is swept from us,
and we, already racked by political charlatanism, are
faced by demoniacal Socialism, which threatens to
paralyse our commerce and isolate us from kith and kin
across the seas.
It is proposed now that New South Wales, so infam-
ously abused after her magnificent generous surrenders
in the cause of union, shall withdraw from the Federa-
tion and start the work of natural unification under a
Federal Council Bill.
Many believe we should move at once, strike for a
restoration of our political rights and a re-establishment
of our former union with the mother country.
That represents the bursting forth of the jabber-
wock in his most violent form. But it is pai ifully
vague, and the “heel of arrogance ” is left in a
most undefined state. Presumably N.S.W. knew,
when it called on the other States to come and
join it, that the majority would rule, and Johnny
Haynes and his friends have persuaded most of
N.S.W. to return a lone Freetrade minority.
Premier Deakin would probably be pleased to
ask Pumpkin Smith to join the Ministry if
Pumpkin would fall in with the Ministry’s views,
but as he ivon’t the only thing is to change the
views—which Australia won’t allow—or do
without Pumpkin, and wait till N.S.W. sends
in a different kind of Pumpkin. As for
the “magnificent generous” surrenders which
N.S.W. made in the cause of union, they
are as undefined as the heel of arrogance and
the rest of the boojums and snarks of John’s
jolted .dream. It would be better, on the whole,
if the secessionists would begin by drawing up an
exact statement of their grievances, leaving out
the heel of arrogance, and the boots of oppression,
and other undefined articles of “clobber,” and
sticking to dull, wooden information. It should
set forth: —
The amount of commerce N.S.W. has lost.
The date when the Commonwealth broke “ the former
union with the mother country,” together with a diagram
of the breakage.
The number of its subjects who have been hanged
unjustly by Premier Deakin, or cast into a noisome,
toadful dungeon by George Turner, and how P. Frs:i
has gibbered at them through the bars.
The amount of land or money or goods stolen from
N.S.W. by the Commonwealth contrary to the consti-
tution. , , , ,
The extent to which N.S.W. has been paralysed and
had its communication cut off with its kin across the sea.
(The recent foreign criminal at Newcastle doesn’t come in
Any miscellaneous information that may be available
about the demoniacal aspect of Chris. Watson and the
cannibalistic and blood-drinking tendencies of William
Trenwith.


Sample of the State’s lost ‘‘political rights” on a
shovel O' some other handy implement.
There is nothing like getting your facts in a, hard,
precise form, like ironmongery, before letting the
kraken of your wild eloquence loose and unchain-
ing the promiscuous fantod or Juggernaut of
imagination. A plain list of the State’s lost pro-
perty may not be so picturesque as the wail of the
banshee of loose denunciation and the clattering
of its chains up and down the corridors of John’s
mind, but it is much more valuable as a clue. One
of the finest things in literature is Clarence’s
dream of the horrors of the bottom of the sea, but
no sensible policeman ever took it out with him
as a guide when he went looking for the em-
bezzled goods, or the person who did the assault.
4
Cheap liahor.
“ Bushman ” from Tasmania :
I am sending you a few facts—facts, mind you, from
the way-back farming districts of Tasmania.
First re wages. Most of my life has been spent on the
west, coast of Tassy ; the wild West, where men are free
and independent; good wages, unionism, and all that.
(Things are getting altered now.) Last year fate landed
me among the cookies. I was mesmerised. I had always
thought there was no slavery under the British flag.
I found among these way-back cookies, slavery pure and
simple ; ignorance, black as night; greed and selfishness—
the blind selfishness of the peasant. They are taught
from childhood by the object lesson of the'lives of their
elders to cheat and rob their neighbors—“ dealing ” they
call it. They have, as a class, no conception of the true
qualities of manhood, honesty, truth, unselfishness. A
few exceptions there are. Here and there a man, but
few—very few. Now for some facts from a farming
district not 100 miles from Hobart.
The rate of wages for single men is—tucker and ss.
(sometimes 65.) a week. I know a dozen young men
between the ages of 21 and 25 —lusty young giants, in the
prime of life, great toilers, fine axemen—working for
their tucker, such as it is, and ss. weekly. Barely tucker
and clothes 1 And, when I say working, I mean working,
before daylight until long after dark, and working the
best part of Sunday Fact. One case in particular:
Young fellow (21) started to work for cocky at grubbing
by the week. Five bob and tucker (tucker mostly rabbit
stew). Cocky told him he could light a big fire to see
'3 chop logs until it was light enough to grub. I
asked him if he was going to take it. Said he, “Yes,
and glad to get it 1 ” He put in three years at five bob
and rabbit stew ; then he got a rise—six bob and rabbit
stew. Here’s another case : Married man (ploughman),
getting rations and Bs. a week. He was frightened of
losing his job, as another married, man had offered to do
the same work for 7s. ! These are facts, mind you. No
hearsay ; what I’ve seen myself; I can give name, date,
and place. Here’s the masterpiece : Young cocky (aged
22), out of work ; looking round for job. Cocky told him
“he didn’t really want a man, but, if he liked, he’d put
him on and give him enough to keep him—a shilling a
day.” Said the cocky, “ It’s better than tramping about
the country.” He took it.
Now, what chance have these young cockies to develop
into men—genuine men—who take an interest in the
welfare of their fellow men? Not a minute to themselves.
Eat, drink, sleep (a little), work—weary, dreary drudgery
- from Christmas to Christmas. What’s the difference
between them and the bullocks they “ punch?”
How the cookies intermarry. What will be the end of
it? Mostly big families. They marry and intermarry,
and keep on intermarrying. Do they know the result?
Is it pure ignorance ?
Marvellous the number of young men and young
women in Tassy who can’t read and write. I’ve dropped
acre#’dozens—aye, scores
4
The New Labor Programme.
“ P.H. ” on Laborites and the elections:
“ A Pretty Good Democrat” (B. 26/10/’O3) discourses
ineffectively on, perhaps, the most difficult and urgent
problem of the political Labor movement, namely, how to
deal with the class of politicians who are, allegedly, “ as
Food as a Labor man.” Unquestionably, the present rela-
I.ons of the party to unattached advanced Democrats
like Kingston, Turner, Hume Cook, Crouch, Mauger,
Toucher, Trenwith, etc., are unstable. Before any
considerable reforms are possible, a working agree-
ment must be arrived at between these parties. Mean-
while the reactionaries thrive. With intimate knowledge
of the labor leaders, I affirm that the greatest
anxiety exists among them concerning the division
of the Democratic forces; but at present they
see no means of uniting them. The suggestion
that privateers like Miss Goldstein, Mauger, Higgins,
etc., should be exempt from opposition without giving
a pledge is absurd. Every one knows that effective
use of representative assemblies can only be made by
parties, and there cannot be a party without a pledge.
Independents are like so many rounded pebbles rolling
down a rivulet, split up or united by the obstacles in
their course, and not by inherent qualities. If the
Political Labor Council officially recognised one
independent Labor candidate, at least half the
present Labor Ms.P. would claim exemption from
the pledge. And yet while the P.L.C. is constituted as
at present, such men as Kingston, Turner, and Higgins
will never pledge themselves to it. Nor is there any
other organisation to which they can pledge themselves.
The P.L.0., which frames the Labor platform and selects
the Labor candidates through its branches, is not quite
democratic in composition. It is composed of one dele-
gate from each affiliated trade-union and one from each
affiliated branch. The affiliation fee is £1 per annum.
There must be only one branch in each State electorate
Therefore a trade-union with 20 members has power in
the Council equal to that of the largest electorate.
Plainly a new political organisation is wanted. Why not
a national organisation on the English plan with a branch
in each electorate, defining its policy at an annual con-
ference, and exacting a pledge from every candidate?
To-day such an organisation would find a majority in
Australia to support the following programme :
1. Australia First.
2. No more Borrowing (except for Conversion).
3. Protection. '
4. Industrial Arbitration.
5. Old Age Pensions.
6. Citizen Army, and Arms and Ammunition Factories.
7. Control of Monopolies.
8. Closer Settlement.
9. Honest Administration.
TO. An Australian Navy.
To such a platform every democrat could subscribe. To
such an organisation every candidate could pledge
himself with confidence, and without loss of dignity.
United under one banner, the democrats would overawe
the daily press and command its support, instead of, as
now, quailing under its lash. United, they could carry
at least two or three important measures each year. If
such an organisation failed to absorb the Political Labor
Council at once, the confluence of the two bodies would
ensue in a few years, provided the new one truly repre-
sented mass interests as against class interests.
4
A Name for the Federal City.
“ Australian ” writes
When the Federal capital is decided upon, it behoves
men and women of Australian sentiment to be alert lest,
ere they know it, the Commonwealth is inflicted with a
King Edward’s City or an Alexandraville. It is significant
that every chief city in Australasia save one is named
after some Lord or Lady on the other side of the sea who
probably knew little and cared less about the budding
centre christened in his or her honor than the most
reckless and least reputable of the colonists. Thus
we have Sydney, Hobart, Melbourne, Perth, and
Adelaide in the Commonwealth, and Wellington
and Auckland in Maoriland. Brisbane got its title
from an Australian Governor who happened to be
in office when it was founded. The little influence
that over-sea officers of State or local governors have on
popular sentiment is proved by the fact that it is exceed-
ingly seldom that anything of a territorial character is
named after them when they have vacated their posi-
tions. Every city in Australasia would have a different
designation had its foundation been a few years earlier or
a few years later. There ought to be some more defined
reason for giving the Commonwealth capital its name.
The United States had an easy task, comparatively, in
naming Washington after “the Father of his country.”
Canada was in a less clear position, and so adopted
a pretty native-named centre. What will Australia do ?
If it is impossible for Parliament to select one pioneer
who stands out prominently from his fellows* and who at
the same time has a euphonious patronymic, it should
either adopt an appropriate native title, or some abstract
designation suggestive of Federal aspirations or achieve-
ments. It cannot be pretended that any British person-
ae® n°w in office had anything to do with the foundation
of the Australian nation, so they can all be wiped off the
slate without compunction. It would be absurd to honor
a trans-oceanic potentate, however exalted, simply
because he was on hand when the task of choosing a title
was exercising Australian minds. One would feel in-
clined to suggest Cook, but future historians might think
it referred to Representative Joe instead of the great
explorer. The exact name, however, is not of so great
importance as the principle that it should have regard
solely to someone to whom the cause of Australian unity
is under a debt of gratitude, or should in some other
definite manner reflect Australian sentiment, pure and
undefiled. Even Tumut, concerning which the London
papers made so merry when the likelihood of its selection
was first mentioned, would be better than Hopetoun,
Tennyson, Northcote, Edwardville, Balfour, Chamber-
lain, or Lyttelton
»•—- -
Bullying from the Bench.
Judge Rogers appears to have used the whip in
a remarkable fashion at Wyalong (N.S.W )
Quarter Sessions lately. Two young men were
charged on four counts. The jury went out at
three in the afternoon and at 10 next morning was
still not agreed. If a jury couldn’t agree after 19
hours it would seem a fair thing to try a second
one; the judge, however, sent it back for another
iP e l * ■A-* 11.10 the 12 returned, and announced
that they had got so far as to agree to convict on
two counts. Apparently, under the whip of the
judge they had compromised—some of them bad
agreed to find that the prisoners weren’t as guilty
as they really believed them, while others
who presumably didn’t believe them guilty at all
were prepared to find them guilty of some small
thing m order to get the business over. How-
ever unsatisfactory such a result, it was quite in
form ; the Crown had charged the men on four
counts, and it was open to the jury to find them
guilty on any one of them. The Judge, however,
evidently had his own opinions; wherefore,'
according to the local newspaper report, he told
the jurymen who had been locked up for now
close upon 24 hours—
It was one of the most extraordinary things he had
ever seen. It seamed doubtful to him whether Wyalomr
should be continued as a Criminal Court. It was a
disgrace to the place. If he had to make a recommenda-
tion in this respect he knew what he would say.
And he sent them back again, practically with
what they must have regarded as a threat, that if
they didn t find the men guilty there should be no
more Criminal Courts at Wyalong, if he could
stop them. It was no longer, therefore, a question
with this jury, which had already come to a
decision, whether the prisoners were guilty or
not; the Judge had imported quite a new con-
sideration into the case. And, thus harried, they
came back with a verdict of guilty. The Judge
may have been quite right; the men may have
been guilty. But that doesn’t justify the Judge’s
threats. If the jury happened to be the local
publicans, and they didn’t like the Judge’s law
and told him that if he didn’t alter it they
wouldn t supply him with a meal or a bed or a
drink again in Wyalong, and would compel him
to camp out in the scrub, there would probably be
a row. Yet what the Judge did to the jury was
just, the same as that. And there isn’t any row
Junes are very meek animals.
♦
Irvine’s Miscalculation.
There is a great art in knowing when to sell out,
to get in out of the wet, to finish or leave off, to
retire with dignity, to get from under, and to do
all the other things that tend to the passing on
of the responsibility. The quality of judicious
absence is one of the best that almost any man
can have; next to the quality of not being born at
xu’j.'V s the best. The amount of misery
that hasn t happened to the person who wasn’t
born has only been equalled by the number of
bricks which haven’t dropped on the head of the
man who was away. Premier Irvine, of Victoria
who has decided not to resign after all, has evi-
dently failed to assimilate these great lessons
He doesn t know when to cultivate a well-selected
absence. Six months ago he could have got
away with some kind of a reputation. To-day he
could get away uninjured and with most of his
clothes. Twelve months hence, on present ap-
pearances, he will be glad to get away anyhow,
bo far as he has got, he has managed to make the
railway deficit about £200,000 a year worse than
it was before. He started with a promise to
reduce the number of railway employees and
declared they were far too numerous, and he has
actually increased them. He contrived, in an
idiotic and wanton quarrel, to get rid of a huge
proportion of the trained drivers, and millions of
pounds worth of fcho fot&to’s valuable property is
now bemg driven to destruction by ignorant louts
of the. worst description. The biggest harvest
Victoria ever had is in prospect, and also the
biggest block and breakdown, and the biggest
shriek of rage from the farming classes.
1b has already been found necessary to
increase freights to make up for the losses created
by sheer muddle. Turner’s sinking fund has
been stolen and spent. The revenue is still
falling. Bent’s policy of giving free passes, good
for nine years, to suburban jerry-builders, has
become a joke. The £5,000,000 loan was an
appalling failure. The closer settlement policy
has apparently collapsed. Irvine’s one-time
strongest supporter, the Age, now calls him a
failure and almost calls him a lunatic. And
Irvine, who had a chance to get away and leave
someone else to face the railway block and the
enraged farmers, and the looming deficit and all
the other consequences, has decided to 'stay and
let the country see what a complete and monu-
meritai failure he is—to stay till the fowl, already
visible in the distance, comes home to roost
Certainly the calm person doesn’t know the art of
leaving off.
«
The 1.0. F. Commissicn.
The .Irvine Government in Victoria has ap-
pointed Justice Hood a Commission “to inouire
into the methods adopted by the Independent
Order of Foresters to forward its interests in Vic-
tona; u l ™^ 0685 - tbe righfc tl,in S with such
great difficulty that it could hardly be expected
Thiers* d 0 the ” sllt "w -this sff
(.f was to inquire into the position
of the LO.F.—to ascertain, if possible, whether it
is ikely to be able to pay what it pretends that it
will pay ; to dig into the whole question of assess-
ment assurance; to inform a public which does
not know much about it what assessment
assurance is loaded with; and to follow the
standT a°nar a t SS T ment ° ffic ? S \ Life assurance
stands apart from practically everv other
sort of investment. It is a provision made
deliberately and specifically for one’s old age or
™ S ':' do ; or children, and is often made bymen
who can afford no other provision. And it 'is not
an investment which a man can make whenever
he pleases; he may not be able to satisfy next
year the tests that he could satisfy last year. If
the society with which he assured last year fizzles
out, having scattered in feathers and paint for its
chiefs, and in presents to politicians, the money
which it ought to have accumulated against
maturing claims, such a man’s opportunity of mak-
ing this provision for his family may be gone for
ever, and any other provision may then be beyond
him. . The failure of a life assurance office, there-
fore, involves such disaster that it is doubtful
whether the business ought not to be made a State
monopoly—in other words, it is doubtful whether
private societies and companies should be trusted
to take the public’s money on the pretence of
offering assurance. Certainly there are mutual
societies and public companies which are doing
the business just as well, or at any rate almost as
well, as the State could do it; but it is an intricate
business, and the public (especially that part of
the public which most needs life assurance, being
unable to make any other provision) cannot readily
distinguish the sound institution from the rotten
one. It cannot even tell the sound principle
of assurance from the rotten one. Irvine ought
to have helped in the latter respect at least.
The future widow and orphan cried to him to do
S °" course he didn’t hear the widow and
orphan. He only heard the loud-voiced politicians
calling to him to clear their good name—the loud-
voiced politicians who can look after themselves
pretty well, while the future widow and- orphan
can’t. It is all very like Irvine,
»
The Dirty Kyabrammer.
A extracts from the reports of the Victorian
inspector of dairies give an excellent idea of the
stamp of men who are just now engaged in making
such a howl against socialistic legislation. They
show a disgusting state of affairs and a criminal
disregard of the health and lives of fellow citizens.
These extracts, which were handed to the daily '
press by the Victorian Director for Agriculture
(Mr. Wallace), are as follows :
In the first dairy named, the cows are milked in a shed
adjoining the piggery, with logged floor, through which
drainage passes and collects in a stagnant pool close to
the cow-shed. Dairy a few yards distant, constructed of
wood, and iron roof, walls and floor fouled with milk and
grease, and the odor from piggery is perceptible in the
dairy. The ground outside the dairy is fouled with milk,
and flies are in swarms in and outside dairy. Cream is
stored for a week before being sent to factory under
above conditions.
In the second dairy mentioned the bails are brick,
and covered to a depth of several inches with
manure. Milkers, chiefly boys, dirty in dress, and dirtier
in habits—each one smoking a pipe and expectorating
during milking. Milk stored at night under roof of shed',
and at time of visit pigs were camping under miltabench.
In the third case reported upon, the woodwork of the
separating and churning-room has rotted away, leaving
large openings where the washings from the floor find
their way under the building, causing that terrible
stench which is plainly perceptible throughout the
factory. Butter made under these conditions cannot be
of good quality, and all the efforts of the manager are
nullified by this undesirable state of affairs.
In the fourth case reported upon, the supervisor says
that he overhauled the whole of the milk suppliers’ cans
at the factory, a number of which were rusty and unfit
for use, whilst others were imperfectly cleaned, and in
the bottoms of some there were undoubted signs of the
presence of dirt in the milk.
It is scarcely wondered at that men whose bar-
barous and criminal instincts lead them to keep
their dairies in such filthy conditions should be
opposed to all legislation for the protection and
improvement of mankind. Indeed it is doubtful
whether they can be classified as men at all.
Judged by their habits they might be something
in the pig line.
+
One of the hardest knocks that the S.M.
Herald has received for a long time was the in-
gratitude shown by the Six Hatters in pledging
themselves to aid the Labor candidate for East
Sydney. No Freetrade organ barracked more for
the “Six” than the S’mkrald, nobody howled
more about the injustice and scandalous persecu-
tion of the Labor party, and the shameful and
disgraceful conduct of Ministers in preventing the
Hatters from landing (which they didn’t), and
the disloyalty of it all to the beloved Etnpiah.
The famous half-dozen were represented as being
madder than their proverbial ancestor, and to
have condemned labor conditions and legislation
here as tyrannical and worthy of Russia or Sheol.
So when the downfall came Granny whimpered :
The presence of these gentlemen on the Labor candi-
date s committee has ho political significance. They were
unionists when they left England, unionists when they
were received so fraternally by the unionists in Mel-
bourne, unionists when they were prevented from landing
in consequence of the representations of these brother
unionists of theirs. They are unionists still, it seems
and they think that the interests of labor would be con-
served by the return of a caucus representative. Their
opinion is not of more value than that of any six other
gentlemen imperfectly acquainted with the needs of
Australia.
When they landed, their opinion was of so much
value that the Herald’s representative chased
them all over the city for it. It may still be of
value. The Six Hatters weren’t soured as the
Herald was ; the Deakin Government didn’t
stop their gratis postage and prevent them living
on the plunder of the poor taxpayer, and when
they approved of the Deakin Government thev
probably did it honestly. The Hekald, with its
postage steal torn from it, can’t be expected to
approve of anything the Deakin Government
does.
«
Backed up by subservient or interested ’Pootras
Bent rushed his Closed Roads Bill through
Victorian Assembly. Briefly, the measure pro-
vides for the leasing of such roads and of water
frontages; but, in spite of the strenuous oppo-
sition of Prendergast, Duffy and others, the
House declined to compel a landowner to put
swing-gates at entrances to such closed roads, or
to provide for public access thereto, or to compel
adjacent owners to fence the roads where they
don’t lease them. Half the rents of these State
properties are to go to the local councils, but, in
the absence of the provision for fencing, the
rents aren’t likely to amount to much. The
average landowner isn’t the kind of animal to pay
rent for a strip of land unless he is compelled
to do so, and it is no use offering a closed road
or water frontage to anybody but the adjoining
landowner—it wouldn’t pay anyone to fence it
off—so the landowner will neither fence nor lease
the roads, but will just let his sheep wander
around as before. The landholder will only
puy rent for the closed road or water frontage
where someone else is likely to step in if he
doesn’t. The democrats in the House vainly tried
to insert in Bent’s Bill provisions absolutely
prohibiting alienation of such lands; but the
-Kyabramit.es decided to leave all to the honesty
0( ? °f the Minister. And supposing
the Minister hasn’t any ? b
It looks as if the animosity of the big dailies is a
positive advantage to a candidate. Victorian
Labontes, except for one paltry first notice, were
studiously ignored, yet every one polled well up
to expectations, many far beyond. The party
handled its men well—kept them away from the
city, where they were well known and the vote was
sure and rushed them all round the country to tell
the electors what Age and Argus refused to do.
White, a North Melbournite, works the Western
district sheds, shearing; and is, of course, well
known ; still, he polled a heavy tally for a Labor
PFW ln the heart of a squatting country.
M Grath, a Collingwood baker, and an indifferent
speaker, beaten hollow a few years back by
O Connor, for Fitzroy, went out to where he was
almost unknown and gave Government and
Opposition men a great shaking-up. With
adequate press backing, Labor in five of the
States would have an absolute majority of both
Senate and Reps.,, only N.S.W. persistently
returns stodgy Foreign-traders, heavy mercantile
men from the city. Why, Heaven only knows.
A Melbourne jury lately expressed its contempt
for an iniquitous Act of Parliament and the
makers thereof. The case was the first under
f® c - t * ie c ‘ Employers and Employees Act
? r EJ years no one had been mean enough
to call in the aid of the criminal law to enforce a
civil contract—it was left to a Gippsland farmer
to do that. Said farmer charged his “servant”
(a milker) with “ wilfully, unlawfully, and
maliciously breaking his contract by leav-
ing his employment without notice, there-
by exposing valuable property (cows, to wit)
to injury.” Accused,. a dairy-farmer’s em-
ployee, had given his employer a day’s
notice, and had told him to keep the four days’
wages due to him, but had, as a matter of fact,
broken his contract to milk cows and not to leave
without giving a week’s notice. Judge Holroyd
summed up against accused, as he was forced to
do on the facts and the law ; nevertheless, after
two hours’ retirement, the jury acquitted.
j- he acquittal is noteworthy solely from the
fact that it . constitutes a public protest
against an iniquitous and one-sided law.
under which an employer who breaks hi's contract
(by discharging without notice) can be forced to
pay wages in lieu of notice, and that is all ; while
the employee who disregards his agreement can
not only be sued for damages, but can also be
gaoled like . a thief or murderer. At the
very time this case was being heard a jury in an
adjacent court was awarding damages to a woman
who was the victim of a breach of contract to marry.
The defendant in this case had not only broken
his agreement, but had also caused material injury
to a human being—the plaintiff woman—in that
he had, under promise of marriage, seduced her,
and had damaged her future prospects by leaving
her with an illegitimate infant; but the Law had
made no provision for charging him criminally.
The other defendant had done no visible injury
whatever, but his breach of contract might pos-
sibly have resulted in damage to “valuable pro-
perty”—a cow. A woman isn’t valuable pro-
perty—a cow is.
About Protection in Britain:—
Lord Masham (nee Sam Lister) is said to be the insti
gator of Chamberlain’s attack on Freetrade. For the
last 35 years the name of Lister, of Manningham Mills,
Bradford (he was converted into Lord Masham about 10
years ago), has stood for Enterprise in the British textile
manufacturing trade. The arguments advanced by Free-
traders to explain the failure of other manufacturers are
of no avail in Lister’s case. Whilst the slow-going men
were losing their markets to the up-to-date foreigner,
Lister was establishing a reputation as an improver on
foreign ideas. He speculated in attempts to produce
fabrics which were being imported into Britain from Ger-
many, and the general success of his speculations is stated
in the fact that the hard-headed mill owner was captured
by the Tory party and lowered to the peerage. What
Lister doesn’t know about British and foreign manufac-
tures and markets in all kinds of soft goods is not worth
knowing. He has been there, with an inventive mind, a
persistent energy, and an enormous amount of capital.
When he says, as he said the other day, that “ during the
last 15 years British trade with the colonies and British
possessions has increased at the rate of £2,000,000 a year,
otherwise the country would have been in distress owing
to hostile tariffs and free imports ” —when Lister makes
that pronouncement it is time for theoretical Freetraders
to hold their cackle. In such commercial matters the
voice of Lister, the unceasing advocate of Protection, is
the voice of Britain’s own particular god.
Either the muddled attempts at retrenchment on
the Victorian railways have got to the length of
pure insanity or else some of the “authorities”
are deliberately trying to force on a smash. Lately
the dailies, loaded up by the aforesaid authorities,
announced a “somewhat extensive injury to
.the permanent way at Essendon, through the
coupling-rod of a dead engine breaking. Two
rails were broken, but the interference with
traffic was inconsiderable, as repairs were
carried out expeditiously.” (Argus, 30/11/’03.)
A departmental inquiry was duly held and the
painful subject buried. But it leaked out that,
presumably to save two men’s wages, a big engine
needing repairs was attached “dead” to an
ordinary goods train from Seymour, stripped of
all movable parts to save weight, and sent down
to Melbourne. The persons responsible for
this actually removed the connecting, eccentric
and coupling rods and balance .weights; con-
sequently, the dreaded “hammer-blow” got
into full operation, the rails were spread and bent
at different points between Tallarook and Essen-
don (50 miles), and at Oliver’s Bank, just outside
Essendon, the speed was so great that, not two,
but a dozen, rails were broken. The metals had
to be immediately replaced for a distance
of 2| miles while traffic was worked on the
down line, the repairers working night and day
and all through the heavy rain on Sunday to get
the road in order again. And about 10 miles of
new metals will have to be put in between
Melbourne and Seymour. But the department
pcoh-poohs all inquiries and asserts there was
merely a trifling accident.
The demand of Mr. Sandford, who ran Pumpkin
Smith very closely in Bathurst (N.S.W.) district,
for a bonus to help to establish a new iron industry*
evoked a number of letters, purporting to be from
indignant agriculturists, asking why they should
be taxed to provide the iron industry with
assistance. Probably enough these letters were
real. Though everybody is more or less of a
politician in N.S.W. yet there is a very large
ignorance of politics, and the agriculturist, as a
rule, doesn’t in the least realise that for many
many years he has been the most aided, assisted’
petted and bonused man in the State—in fact that
he is a good deal of a parasite, living on the hard-
driven city worker, and yet calling himself the
backbone of the country. He gets his bonus
principally in the shape of railway rebates, and
what very extensive concessions these are is shown
by the latest N.S.W. railway report:
Average charge for
carrying 100 tons
, ... for one mile.
Most manufactured goods .. .. £1 n 3
)Y 00l „. , 0 16 2
Livestock 0 10 3
Vegetables, lime, manure, &c. .! 08 2
Firewood 0 6 3
Timber, bark, seed, &c. .. . [ 05 2
Coal, coke, shale .. .. ’ ’ 04 8
Grain, flour, &c. .. . . . ’ 02 7
liny, straw, chaff .. .. '* 00 4
The N.S.W. agriculturist has everything done for


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1902.
assurance in FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ~
assets
INCREASE IN ASSETS
SURPLUS
INCREASE in surplus
the new business exceeded that OF 1901 BY ...
Local Directors have powe/ to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, eto.
t!- WTTTTAM M‘MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
Sir WILLIAM M N 0R > TON MANNING) E sq., m.D.
O Q m CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager -for Australasia.
„ „ FV q ' tftrv ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
F. C. COM LE\, } gW. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland
£265.597.775
£19,915,124
£73.355,783
£4,889,176
£15.418.151
£620,434
£6,565,178
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether It Bril «■*§.«
annually to continue the war which has been waged ag g s wli}ch w f n br j n g a steady
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into rjvrroTJSANDS of its people. The
revenue to the country and provuie employmen . rnbbits at its works in Young,
Rosewarne Packing Company Ltd., is now SiS 7or freshly-killed
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market price i §>
rabbits free of any commission or charges. p or further particulars , address —
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited.
HEAD OFFICE-
-70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
NARANDERA
or YOUNG.
him that the country can afford, and a great deal
that it can’t afford. H© has his roads, bridges,
&c., made for him out of the general revenue, of
which the city worker (who pays for his own
roads) contributes his share. He gets far more
than his share of political representation. He has
a State Bank established solely to lend him
money at extra low rates. And his goods are
carried at suoh ridiculously low figures that
the bonus thus granted is equal in itself to
Very heavy Protection —it has been so even
under alleged Freetrade. Yet Sydney papers
unearthed alleged agriculturists who complained
of the fact that Sandford, the Lithgow iron-
founder, was bonused to the extent of having
bis iron carried at the alleged reduced rate of
about 10s. 6d. per mile for 100 tons, and wanted
to know why they should be taxed to aid the
bloated manufacturer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Theatre R0ya1....... “Beauty and the Beast."
J Ibr Majesty’s... “ Monsieur Beaucaire.
1 jyceum " Great World of London."
Criterion.„ “ Why Woman Sins i
Tivoli Rickards’ 00.
Queen’s Hall Mel. B. Spurr.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s Theatre... “ A Midsummer Night’s Dream."
Her Majesty’s “A Country Girl.’’
Theatre Royal “ A Desperate Game.
l> rJOU «• Little Red Riding Hood."
Opera’ House Rickards’ Vaudeville 00.
The Green Tents (by \ wirt h’s Circus and Zoo.
Princes Bridge) J
4.
It is hereby proposed that Sydney and
Melbourne should' do something really large and
handsome in the way of a benefit for Edward
Farley. Time was when Earley was a consider-
able god in Australia, and he sang better than any
real god that this paper ever met, and acted better
also. Somewhere about 15 or 20 years ago there
was no better voice hereabouts than his,
and it is a fine voice yet. But Farley, without
being exactly old, and without being worn out,
has dropped out. He left the stage for a while,
and, when he came back, a new order of things
had arisen, and opera was mostly musical comedy,
and musical comedy was mostly girls’ legs, and
what wasn’t girls’ legs was a succession of young
imported actors, who danced and did silly variety
turns. So Farley, who isn’t in the variety busi-
ness, wants to get away from Australia, and a
benefit or a subscription would help him to go.
Australia owes him that much.
## # *
The Musgrove Grand Comic, Opera Co.
said farewell to Sydney, at the Royal, on Satur-
day, inDonizetti’s charming opera, “The Daughter
of the Regiment.” The bright, vivacious music of
the little work and its genuine fun, which ripples
through the score as well as through the libretto,
h as adequately represented by the co., especially
by the orchestra and chorus, but, so far as the
dress circle of the house was concerned, continuous
chatter by a section of the audience smothered
a good deal of the lighter and more deli-
cate effects. The orchestra was, throughout,
well-balanced, and gave the music all its sparkle.
Miss Beattie was vocally not equal to the part of
the Daughter, but acted vivaciously, and in
one or two songs scored something more than
moderate success. Lempriere Pringle adapted a
heavy voice to the light and breezy work of
Sulpioe’s part with remarkable success, and was
. responsible for the best performance of the even-
ing. As Tonio, Henry Hallam was rather tired
and colorless, but he sang correctly and with
sweetness. Encores were frequently demanded
hut seldom given. A big evening’s entertainment
had been arranged by adding the second act of
“ The Serenade ” on to the bill, and the demand
for extras under such circumstances showed the
grasping tendencies of an alleged Freetrade
community.
** • *
The Royal re-opens on Boxing Night with
a Xmas pantomime which will have some relation
to “Beauty and the Beast.” “Mother Goose,”
and other well-known properties of the festive
season. It hasn’t yet struck a manager to intro-
ducea Dry Dog pantomime, with a grandpas dc
seul by Dill Macky’s calves. Originality is not
c irriecl to excess in Xmas pantos.
## * *
Julius Knight, he whose Roman legs are
a dream, and whose toga, in the days when he
used to go and eat the lion in CsesaFs amphi-
theatre, was too beautiful for words, will be the
star of J. C. Williamson’s Christmas attraction at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, opening on the 26th.
“Monsieur Beaucaire” is the name of the
drama, hut that is merely a thin disguise,
put up in order that Julius’ legs may not burst on
the public too suddenly. Miss Maud Jeffries and
a powerful company will assist, and no effort will
be spared to make the show worthy of the occa-
sion. Christmas is a religious festival, and
monarchy is supposed to he one of the props of
the church, and “ Monsieur Beaucaire ” is a drama
with a powerful monarchical grovel in it, bo things
are strikingly appropriate all round.
** * *
In the large crop of holiday shows which,
at time of going to press, were making a commo-
tion at Sydney theatres, Mel. B. Spurr s head
could be seen waving proudly aloft. On the
high testimony of The Bulletin’s Melbourne
showman, M.B.S. is the very best monologue
entertainer who has struck Australia in this
generation. This part of the crop will bloom
on Boxing night at the Queen’s Hall, Pitt-st.,
which has been renovated for the occasion.
Further down the street,. at the Palace, an
American comedy co., which has been touring
M.L. with success, will play “Mama’s New
Husband ” —a piece which, on the word of the
advt., has made all the United States laugh.
This also opens Boxing night.
** * *
William Anderson has shipped off a com-
pany to Maofilarid, and “The World Against
Her” is now being played at Sydney Lyceum
with Miss Conroy as leading lady, instead of
Miss Duggan, who heads the Maoriland con-
tingent. Numerous other changes have also been
made in the cast. About the time these few re-
marks get into circulation the piece will, however,
be changed for the Lyceum’s great Christmas
attraction, “The Great World of London,” for
which a large quantity of horse and other impres-
sive effects are being collected. The Bulletin
doesn’t know for certain whether there’s a pie-
stall in this production or not; but as it will
include several London-street night scenes of
great magnificence, this paper will risk it and
prophesy at least one pie-stall. Somehow, there
is nothing that seems to make a Lyceum audience
happier tnan a pie-stall.
*****
At Sydney Criterion, Charles Holloway
has taken on the large contract of telling “Why
Woman Sins.” How he proposes to cram the
whole list of whys into one night this paper
doesn’t know, and will have to wait till Boxing
Night to find out. Meantime Holloway has shut
up the theatre for a few nights so that he may
attack the problem with the new energy and
clothes and scenery and extras which the subject
and the season call for.
** * *
Sydney aldermen aren’t taking any
chances over the engagement of their hall by
the-shortly-to-advent Profit Dowie for a shekel-
hunting campaign in February next. After con-
sideration, they decided that the purple wings
may flap therein for three days for £215, pay-
able in advance, and a deposit of £lOO to make
good any damage which may possibly result
from any argument Dowie may have with his
audience. Considering that the Profit|s Zion
City has been seized for a small liability of
£145,000 of Dowie’s, and the more important fact
that the Profit himself is reputed to have wings,
the pay-in-advance idea is wise.
** * *
The Christmas extras thrown into the
Tivoli bill consist chiefly of the Cirnocs, who are
put into handcuffs and leg-irons and neck-chains
on the stage, and slip out of them behind a screen.
They are interesting as far as they go even now,
but for practical purposes they come to Sydney
60 or 70 years too late. In Melbourne the boss
Cirnoc, a slim young gentleman named William,
was put into the jewellery prepared specially for
“ the Kellies,” and got out of it all just as easily
as he does out of the collection he carries round
with him. If he could also get out of the habit of
doing so much of his business behind the screen,
the turn would probably seem even more remark-
able than it does now. The rest of the show is
much as it was when it was last favorably noticed
here, and includes Whitburn, Winton, a micro-
biosoope which pictures two toads fighting, and
a number of people who sing and dance, and a
few who sing and don’t dance.
** * *
Melbourne resembles all other professedly
Christian cities insofar that Christmas falls due
in its midst this week. And Christmas is the time
when theatrical managers always produce a new
show and call it seasonable. Bland Holt’s forth-
coming melodrama, at the Royal, is to introduce
(as this journal remarked in last issue) a seasonable
scenario, which presumably includes roast goose
and trimmings. Anyway, the new Australian
narrative will be born on Boxing Night, and its
situations promise to be “rollicking.” The last
two nights of “The Great Millionaire” will
transpire in the meantime. Melbourne waves a
respectful adieu to the “Millionaire,” although
Bland Holt didn’t make it all that it might have
been.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s the Comic Opera Co.
will return to favor on Saturday. There has
been a lapse of several months, which seemed like
years, since Florence Young sang and Lauri
painted his nose red at the big house in Exhibi-
tion-st. Also there has been a lack of frivolous-
ness at other theatres for the past eversolong ;
consequently Melbourne is hungry and thirsty for
opera. Its tongue is hanging out. Respectable
citizens have been observed to stand in front of
J.C.W.’s advt. and feast their bloodshot eyes and
sniff the details like dead-beats outside a cook
shop. The first delicacy of the season will be
“ A Country Girl,” fresh from Sydney.
** * *
The programme appointed for the Prin-
cess’s on December 26th (Boxing Night disguised
under another name) is “Midsummer Night’s
Dream.” In its Shakspearian way the “ Dream ”
will be more seasonable this time than when the
Musgrove Co. made its first appearance; more-
over the management announces some additional
flying fairies, and elfin ballets. A beauteous show
in April and May, this highly embellished pro-
duction of the Bard’s extravaganza should get a
grateful greeting at Xmas. Parents and guardians
who have not yet sampled the “ Dream ” on their
own account need have no scruples in recom-
mending it to the children as a high-class panto-
mime, entitled “ Big Babes in the Wood, or Har-
lequin Oberon and The Sleeping Beauty and the
Beast.”
** * •
Wirth Bros, have graciously consented to
visit Melbourne this week and remain for a fort-
night in the sheltered vale near Princes Bridge
where they pitched their tents last Easter. The
Wirths are returning with new tents—green and
cool to the eye—and the Circus show will include
sundry latest items, in addition to the Howard
Bros/the educated tigers, Page!, and other old
acquaintances. One of the fresh turns is PP
by a professor who has taught the lion and the,
lamb to lie down together in peace and goodwill.
The Circus starts its flying farewell season witn a.
matinee on Boxing Day.
** * *
The Bijou, which was last opened at Cup
time to admit of a ghastly reflection on “ Charley s.
Aunt.” will re-open again in a more promising
manner on Boxing Night. A pantomime, real
and indisputable, is about to break the silence at,
the Bijou, under the management of lom Ger-
man. The story—for even a panto, must have a.
story of some sort or other—will be a. White Aus-
tralian version of “Little Red Riding Hood,
alleviated by numerous local allusions ana
mounted regardless of expense. It was originally
intended to stage this pastoral fiction at the
Gaiety Theatre, but the scheme has grown too big
for the Gaiety, and the theatre overhead stands;
higher in the world, anyhow.
*# * *
Touching the more or less serious-minded
entertainments that will be offered to an mver-fed
public on Xmas Night. At the Town Hall the
Philharmonic Society performs ‘ The Messiah,
with Ada Crossley and Peterkin as principal',
soloists. At the Opera House a musical Festival,
is announced ; it is promoted by Nap. Boffard,
and supported by a numerous concert co. The,
Festival will deal in a mixed manner with the
adventures of Rebekah, a Jewish lady who went
to the well. The Orpheus Society is to jubilate,
religiously at the Bijou, and the only Boffard will
break out again at the Town Hall on Boxing
Night in charge of a popular conoert, free from au.
suspicion of sacred music.
** * *
At the Opera House, the Xmas specialties
are Mdlle. Vulcana and Mr. Atlas, who came to
hand last Saturday. Clark and Hamilton, the
long-deferred pair of comedy sketchers, will make
their first appearance this week. Atlas is a strong’
man in the weight-lifting line of business, and
Vulcana is a graceful young amazon of 18 or there-
abouts, with a lovely arm for dumb-bell practice,
and a back that any male connoisseur would go
miles to see. The damsel gave a private exhibi-
tion of her muscular charms on the Opera House
stage the other afternoon, when her baok was
deeply admired.
** * *
Adelaide’s present blank in the matter of
theatres makes even Anderson’s late “ Greed of
Gold ” regretted. It was a particularly impro-
bable and unusually bloodthirsty show, but Harry
Diver worked hard as a struck-dumb person to
whom the simple idea of writing never seemed to
occur. Also Edmund Duggan was funny, and
Miss Helen Burdette good to look upon ; and
hard work was the motto of them all. After'
Christmas, Beatrice Esmond and co. are announced
to descend from various up-country wanderings
with one “Little Lord Fauntleroy ’’—whosename
seems not wholly unfamiliar. Meanwhile the police
band has been concert-giving vigorously, and the
GleeClubhasdone the same, andsohas the Orpheus
Society. And in many suburban schools the
small girl has made known what Curfew will not,
be allowed to do this evening, while the Univer-
sity had the excellent idea, of making all its Con-
servatorium prize-takers show what they were
capable of, after they had been • handed their’
diplomas. Once again Adelaide prides itself on
being the Home of Music (and elocution), and
really its record at Ballarat and elsewhere in open
competition is an excellent one, so far as that
goes. _
Geese on Earth and Foodbill to men—as;
many as can afford a Merry Xmas.
Resolution passed by the Transvaal Miners’
Union (six branches): —
We condemn the unreasonable and unmanly action of
the managements of the different mines in trying to fore©'
the miners to sign a petition in favor of the introduction
of Asiatics. We will oppose the importation of Chinese
with all our power.
It shows what the yellow-labor petitions are>
stuffed with.
THE BENEFICIAL BAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Re Trenwith’s triumph over David Syme in getting to
the Victorian top of the Senate poll, the Argus was as
a veteran courtesan at a christening. “ The place
attained by Mr. Trenwith is most creditable to him, ’ said
the Organ of the Rejected Four. “ His election is a
wholesome evidence that the public will not allow the
great power which a public journal possesses to be used
unfairly against individuals. The journal which sets out
to persistently write a worthy man down will always find
that it has succeeded only in writing him up." This
would be entirely humorous and pleasing if the expression
“ worthy man” didn’t threaten danger to Trenwith. If
he has at last secured the support of the Argus, he can,
count himself dead at next election.
For years and years the Argus old
Has uttered its abortive ban
’Gainst all who fought the power of Gold,
And barracked for the Working Man.
Each Labor candidate was “ Mud,"
An enemy to State and Grown ;
The Argus bellowed for his blood,
Or, anyway, “ it wrote him down."
The bunkum hurled at Trenwith’s head
In former times was Trenwith’s food ;
It served the same as meat and bread
To fatten him, and do him good.
Anon the Trades Hall nominee
Became a bloke of some renown ;
“ He’s right,” said the Democracy—
“ The Argus always writes him down.”
The Providence that rules aloft
Directs the Argus in its course ;
All Labor men at whom it scofft
Respect it as a local force.
Delighting in its bitter word,
Rejoicing in its awful frown,
They pray : “ Advance the Cause, O Lord 1
And bid the Argus write us down."
The Wild Cat Column.
Irvine has a small unnoticed Bill before the
Victorian Parliament to legalise
•The principal clause runs j— Notwithstanding Jh n P
■contained in the Trust Fund Act 1897, the
ireceipts on account of the Consolidated Be
•expenditure out of the Revenue of
.ended on the 30th June, 1903, shall be and the same is
hereby applied to the service of the financial y ear e g
In June" 1004.” When in his Estimates Irvine seized the
1903 surplus (obtained by the annexation of trust funds
: and sinking funds), and reckoned it revenue for 19U4 ne
proposed to do what was just as illegal as the
a bank and the seizing of the coin on hand That it was
illegal, ai:d that Irvine knows it was illegal, is pmvea
•now by the fact that he introduces a whitewashing
■measure. All things considered, it seems about up to
•Tub Bulletin to explain that William Irvine isn i
■own “ Burglar Bill.” # *
Just before its fall, the Queensland Philp
Ministry had a proposal ready to supply Government assist
fnce to coal prospecting. The usual syml cates of good
■old Boodle partisans were all ready ; one, it is rumore ,
holds a large area of coal land in t he v * c ' y ]3e l V
■ville. Whatever the proposals are, they will be cio y
acrutinised by the new Mines Minister.
fTinr National Mutual Life Association of
Australasia, from the time when it absorbed the Mutual
of Victoria:— written Added to
■Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Junda
1897 .. £119,861 £199,607 £78,450 £1573 £I«h“J
1898.. 479,665 240,447 86,398 - 152,820
1899 .. 499,753 222,764 91,058 7219 178, il2
1900.. 524,121 294,974 87,7/9 690 1*0,678
1901 566,417 303,190 90,971 725 171,531
1902 !. 583,149 286,953 100.852 *OO 194,944
1903.. 630,071 303,836 112,270 213 965
This is by far the largest income and the largest addition
to funds in any year in the society’s existence.. The total
assurance fund is now £3,674,436 j and in addition to this
there is an investment fluctuation reserve of £85,915.
Against this the loans on mortgage represent £1,980,033,
and on policies within their surrender value £183,307
freeholds £553,249, public securities £202,362, and casn
.£209,406. _ ,
The expense rate is higher than in two previous
years What are described as Expenses of manage
ment” have been reduced, but there has been a very solid
increase in “Commissions on new premiums, expenses
©f travelling agents, and agency expenses On the
hand the interest earnings (on assurance and fluctuation
reserve fund combined) show a substantial improvement.
Expenses Compared Interest Earned
with Total Income. on Average Funds
1897 ..£lB 13 8 per cent. ..
1898 .. 18 0 3 „ .. £4 15 2 per cent.
1899 .. 18 4 6 „ •• 413 0 „
1900 .. 16 14 11 , •• 413 f *'
1901 .. 16 1 3 „ .. 413 4 „
1902 - 17 611 , - 411 7 „
1903 17 16 4 « 413 11 * .
The recent steady increase in the expense rate isn t a
uleasant feature ; yet, even now, only three Australasian
officescan show a y better result, in this respect and one
of them is helped by its industrial business. As for the
interest earnings, they are unusually high. This might,
of course, mean that the securities are not all that they
ought to be ; but there is nothing at all to suggest that
ft is so. Altogether, the year’s results may be set down
as, in the circumstances, unexpectedly good. In fact,
thev would be good in almost any circumstances , taking
actual circumstances into account, they are remarkably
rood. # „ *
Fruitgrowers round Melbourne are at last doing
what they should have tried years ago-starting a
genuine co-operative company to deal with their pro-
duce. Practically all growers round the city are share-
holders ; none may hold less than five nor more than -00
shares, and there are already over 2000 distinct holder-
idea is to sell wholesale from the co. s own store . to shiy
direct to buyers ; to pulp, can, and make jam. Already
•the pulp and jam factory—a defunct brewery in Rich
mond-is in full swing. Profits go in this order ■.-(1) 5
■per cent, to shareholders on paid-up capital, (2) 10 per
cent, for depreciation, etc.; (3) 20 per cent, to a reserve
fund • (4) balance as a bonus to shareholders on business
done with the co. Excepting one—a city nan-aU
directors are genuine growers, and they have got an
expert in the exporting business, a grower himself, and a
hustler, as manager. If they keep their brand up to the
mark these fruit-growers should presently realise for
themselves a good profit, and that will suit them better
than 20 years of listening to jam-maker Derham s talk of
41 Socialistic legislation.” The principal danger is that
there may he too many bosses.
Dalgbty & Co., Ltd., the wool and pastoral
and station-finance people
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1894 £BO 914 8 p.c. =» £BO,OOO £914 £136,297
I P „„ 80,000 3896 140,193
1896 83 673 8 ~ ~ 80,000 36/3 143,866
1897. . 8 „ „ 80,000 3002 146,868
1898 83 571 8 ~ „ 80,000 3571 150,439
1899 85 537 8 „ „ 80,000 5537 155,976
1900.. 90!086 8 „ „ 80,000 10,086 166,062
1901 80 971 8,, „ 80,000 971 167,033
8$:: llm 7 :::: 70,000 i 4 , 8 48 isi,^
1903.. 48,825 6„ „ 50,000 180,706
To pay the reduced dividend the reserves have had to be
tapped to the extent of £1175 ; but even that, remember-
ing what sort of a year it has been over most of pastoral
Australia, is much better than might have been expected.
The co’s. reserves consist of £130,000 reserve fund and
£50,706 undivided profit; and most of the rest of the
situation is expressed hereunder
1902 1903
4ip.c. debentures (Irredeemable) £620,000 £620,000
4 ” ” (Terminable).. 99,620 122,720
t, " ” ' , 68,380 89,110
2* •’ ” 72,350 38,420
9 it •• •*
£2,503,560 £2,513,460
This is a net Increase of £9900 in the debenture load ; but
mainly on account of the average higher rate of the
terminable debentures, the total interest bill went from
£lOl 084 in 1902 to £102,635 in 1903 ; and next year it
looks as though it will be still higher.
* * *
A disputed claim in Melb. county court over
some salvage goods pickings lately disclosed the interest-
ing information that at the Pilbarra sale a lot of steanne
worth £336 had been knocked down for £9 ; while a smait
dealer snapped up for £1 a line of malt extract which he
afterwards sold for £6O 1 There are risks about ships
salvage sales, but there are also profits.
°-« * * *
X • (1) A loan renewed on different terms to
those of the old loan. (2) Any public stock of a per-
manent character. (3) Interest guaranteed by the
vendors (4) Stock whose holder s name is inscribed in
the books, and which is transferable only personally or by-
attorney. (5) Any stock bought for profit. (6) Represents
money lent on the security of the undertaking. (7) The
result of a fusion of businesses. (8) Uncalled capital....
OPW : A safe investment H.L.C. : Yes, about nine
vears ago. He was formerly connected with Adelaide
Advertiser, which would probably be able to inform you


h
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE. —Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Bails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING.
iSt Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein And Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
The Daily Telegraph, Sydney, 28fch May,
1903: “ The year’s business of the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society was reported as the greatest for
the last eleven years. The report pointed out that
the main features of the year were a larger new business,
an increased premium income, a higher rate of interest
earned on investments, a greater increase in funds and a
lower expense ratio.’’*
• • • *
The McDermott Sizer now on the market is
rapidly coming into favor with mining men. Useful as
this medicine is, there is no intention of claiming that
by the use of it, it becomes possible to save hy concentra-
tion all of the mineral values in ore. Some loss is bound
to occur, no matter what mechanical methods are
employed, but what is claimed is that by the use of the
Sizer, the pulp can be prepared in a manner more suitable
and in such a way as to materially increase the efficiency
of the concentrating plant. Nor must it be conjectured
that the McDermott Sizer is only for use in conjunction
with Wilfiey Tables; although it acts admirably with
those machines, it is of such general application as to
enable it to be used with equal advantage with whatever
type of dressing machine happens to be employed.
Those wishing for more information in regard to this
useful machine can obtain catalogues and full particulars
from the Austral Otis Engineering Company of South
Melbourne, who are the Agents and Sole Manufacturers
of the machine.*
» * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephon e.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
*** * '
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. SI Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlemen ts. *
♦ * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel*
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
• * * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-sfc., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
»** - * -
H. Brandon Skertohly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertohly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
•** . * •
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth Correspondence invited.*
* » * *
E. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
* * * *
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and _Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
• • « *
“ Prudence Prude ” has an idea:—“Much has
been said about mining managers, their status, &c. ; let
me say something about directors. If a person holds a
big interest, no matter whether he be a squatter, lawyer,
or business person, without the slightest practical know-
ledge of mining, he is elected on the board, and the
manager is hampered, and often controlled, by'a set of
mining ignoramuses, who, as soon as adverse circum-
stances set in, or the manager will not work the mine to
suit the market, make him the scapegoat, and he is
asked to resign ; and so the shareholders lose a
thoroughly competent man. Why not compel companies
to have a certificated managing director, to assist the
manager, and lay a report before the other directors at
every board meeting ? This would protect the investing
public against incompetent boards, and that, with sub-
stantial reserve funds, would put mining on a firmer
basis.” • \
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald
174 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eagle-st.,
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.
SCHWEPPES MALVERN SPA
By Special Appointment to His Majesty King Edward VII.
Bottled at Celebrated
. Malvern Springs,
England.
more exactly... .Old Cove: There is N.S.W. inscribed
stock maturing in 1926 on the market, bearing 3 per
cent. ; last quotation, 91}. Every £lOOO would return
£32 15s. per annum. The last London quotation for
N.S.W. 4 per cents, maturing 1933, was 107; return equal
to £37 Bs. per £lOOO per annum. N.S.W. 3} per cents,
maturing 1918, quoted at 98; return, £35 14s. These, ap-
parently, are nearest what you want.... .Store: Not the
best society by any means, and there is little in child-
insurance, anyway.. ..J.M.: Sorry don’t know any good
mining investment. About the nearest approach to_ any-
thing of the sort are a few of the N.S.W. coal-mining
co.’s, probably, and their present outlook isn’t too bright.
A.H. (M.L.): The bottom is out of the whole S.A.
oil business.
• • * •
Droving is particularly brisk just now in nearly
all parts of Queensland. Thousands of cattle are con-
tinually pouring into N.S.W. and S.A., especially from
the Gulf country. Up there feed was plentiful through
the drought, but the cattle were isolated by the barren
and waterless stretch between them and any market.
A. J. Cotton, a N.S.W. buyer, has 26,000 head starting on
the roads for the east, and is buying up every hoof he can
get hold of from Winton and Hughenden districts to the
Peninsula. Sid Kidman is also buying up all available
stock in the Northern Territoiy and W.Q. It is esti-
mated that between 38,000 and 40,000 head of store cattle
(priced at £6 10s. per head on the runs) are now on the
way to Bourke, Muswellbrook, Wodonga and other places
from the northern stations.
* * * *
The Derwent and Tamar Fire, Life and
Marine Assurance Co. (Hobart, Tas.), which does no life
business nowadays:—
Dividends and Added to
Oct., Profits Dividend Tax Reserves Reserves
1895 .. .. £64,354
1890.. ..£B,lBl 15p.0.-£7875 £306 64,660
1897.. .. 8,482 7J „ „ 8938 4544 69,204
Loss
1898 .; ..10,780 5 „ „ 2625 65,799
Profits
1899.. .. 8,260 10 „ „ 6250 8010 68,809
1900 .. .. 7,152 10 „ „ 6250 1902 60,711
1901.. .. 3,028 6} „ „ 3281 60,458
1902.. .. 8,909 10 „ „ 5250 3659 64,117
1903.. .. 4,141 7} ~ „ 3938 203 64,320
Marine insurance is an erratic business, and its erratic
tendency shows up even more than usual when the turn-
over is comparatively small. The following further figures
show where the money has come from and where most
of it has gone for a few years past:—
Rent and Working
Premiums. Interest. Expenses. Losses.
1898 .. £20,095 £5375 £5llB £30,419
1899 .. 20,373 3795 6160 9,299
,1900 .. 23,061 3957 6115 13,910
•1901 .. 23,784 3960 7083 17,631
11902 .. 22,664 3908 6243 11,597
'1903 .. 20,420 3984 5260 15,004
In the earlier years something was written off for depre-
ciation of securities, but these, amounts are not shown
; above. The Derwent and Tamar has maintained its old
i reputation as a co. that doesn’t hustle.
• * * •
About six months ago an innocent money-
’ lender fell among the borrowing members of the Victorian
i Public Service. According to his counsel’s statement in
i court he was a very simple person, who was prepared to
i lend the public servant money on a promissory note
( by a brother public servant. The word was
j passed around, and the new money-lender was rushed
' with business. In a few days he had lent £3OO, in lots of
a£1(); to some of the worst marks in the service. Instead
<ofi his cash he now holds a pretty bundle of judgment
c eiiders against the borrowers. His counsel said that the
1 public servants backed each other’s bills in a wonderfully
vready manner.
* * * •
The latest innovation of the Postal Department
'is the application of the coupon system to the telephone.
Any subscriber willing to allow the public to use his
instrument must notify the department, whereupon his
name will be put on the “coupon telephone list,” and he
will be given a book of coupons which he must sell at
threepence each to anyone desiring to use his ’phone for
five minutes. To allow anyone the use of his instrument
without first selling him a coupon is to run the risk of
having it cut off without notice. Out of each threepence
the subscriber gets a penny and the department two-
pence. The system will probably put a healthy stop to
the frivolous use of somebody elSe’s wire, help the
harassed subscriber to pay for his machine, and bring a
little grist to the Federal mill.
* * * •
The Australian Mont-de-Piete Loan and
Deposit Co. (Melbourne): —
Proat,. Dividend,.
April, 1899.. 8 p.c.= £865 £l5BO
Oct., 1899..'£893 8 „ „ 865 £2B 1608
April, 1900.. 799 8 „ „ 865 < 1542
Oct., 1900.. 1018 8 „ „ 865 153 1695
April, 1901.. 693 8 „ „ 865 1523
Deficit.
- Oct., 1901., 697 Embezzled £16,022 13,902
Reserves.
Capital written down. 826
■ April, 1902.. 1019 8 p.c.= 516 503 1329
• Oct., 1902.. 1156 8 „ „ 516 640 1969
April, 1903. 688 8 „ „ 516 172 2141
■ Oct., 1903.. 949 8 „ „ 516 433 2574
In the half-year ending April, 1903, the profits were re-
duced by a special charge of £215 mainly on account of
depreciation ; if this were added the profit was £903, and
: then the improvement for the past half-year doesn’t look
so great. The business, in fact, shows practically no
■ change from the position disclosed six months ago.
* * » *
“Tubal Cain” : Wanted, and wanted badly, an
/ Australian Savings Bank in connection with the Common-
wealth Post Office. Miners, shearers, and other nomads
1 lose interest and are put to unnecessary and great ex-
ipense in exchanging their savings from one State to
:another. Trades unions (with benefit funds) and friendly
'societies are heavily penalised in the same way. I have
Iknown the transfer of £2OO of Engineers’ Society money
from Broken Hill to Melbourne to cost about £5. One
deposit book should serve for the whole Commonwealth ;
any post-office should pay or receive on it; balances
should go on yielding interest. The balance available
with the Postmaster-General for investment might be
used to buy depreciated State bonds from Bull-Cohen.
Anyway, The Bulletin has given reasons enough for
removing trust money out of the reach of indigent and
prodigal State Treasurers.
» * * *
For years Melbourne only had one “dead-horse
merchant ” who advertised that he removed defunct
equines free of charge. Now there are five whose adver-
tisements adorn the columns of the daily press. The
first merchant has retired very comfortably off, but his
business is still in family hands. It pays handsomely to
be the first in at the death of a horse down South, and
trade in horseflesh is very keen. A dead horse is an
incubus the owner is anxious to get rid of, but he is
spared all anxiety nowadays. Before the late lamented’s
hoofs are cold', someone has telephoned to the nearest
dead-horse merchant, who drives round the corner with
his tackle, and has whipped his prize off before the
astounded owner can wipe away the third tear. These
present-day dealers in unconsidered trifles also remove
dead cows, but draw the line at dogs and cats, likewise
poultry ! The hides, hoofs, tallow, horns, bones, teeth,
entrails, hair, and sinews are all saleable commodities.
This fact is often quite overlooked by cookies who
invariably cremate the family slave when bot-fly gets it
down 1
* * * *
The Universal Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne):
Losses (apart
from deben- Debenture Total Nominal
ture in- Interest. Losses. Deficit.
Oct., terest).
1895 £B7l £2687 £3558 £3558
1890 260 2370 2630 6188
1897 5391 2340 7737 13,925
1898 6956 2104 8060 21,985
Profit.
1899 414 2001 1587 23,572
1900 1151 1974 823 24,395
Total Profit.
1901 2538 1842 696 23,699
1902 4246 2369 1877 21,822
Total Loss.
1903 1837 1897 60 21,882
Under the society’s original rearrangement it paid 2J per
cent, on all its debentures. Later they were divided into
two equal parts, “ A ” debentures to receive 5 per cent,
interest, and “ B” 4 per cent, when there was enough to
pay it with. Last year the 4 per cent, was paid for the
first time ; this required £1146. This year, some “B ”
debentures having apparently been bought up in. the
meantime, £lOB7 is required. On the year’s transactions
enough business profit was made to pay the full interest
on both lots of debentures and leave £450 over : but the
losses on the sales of property amounted to £5lO, leaving
the net loss of £6O shown above.
The Universal proposes now to have a cleaning
up. Its assets stand in the balance-sheet at £181,023 ;on
realising these it is estimated that a loss of £54,300 will
be made. The losses on realisations already amount to
£22,709 ; total loss to be provided for, £77,009. The paid-
up capital is £128,310. To provide for the losses, actual
and probable, it will be necessary to write off three-fifths
of this ; this will give £76,986. For the £5 shares two of
£1 each will then be issued. This done, the society will
have a capital of £51,324, and liabilities to the public,
£74,590; against that it will have loans on mortgage,
freeholds, &c., £126,745, and £25 cash. The society has,
so far, made excellent progress in reducing its liabilities
to the public ; in 1894 they amounted to £172,662 ; they
are now, as shown above, £74,596. On the reduced
capital the business profit for the past 12 months (£450)
was equal to about 17s. 6d. per cent.
* * * *
S.A. Parliament last session, at the instance of
Labor member Archibald, passed an Act, of which the
principal provisions are these :
“ When proceedings are taken in any court hy a money-
lender for the recovery of any amount lent after the
commencement of this Act, and for enforcement of any
agreement or security made or taken after the com-
mencement of this Act in respect of money lent either
before or after the commencement of this Act and there
is evidence which satisfies the court that the interest
charged in respect of the sum actually lent is excessive,
or that the amounts charged for expenses, inquiries,
fines, bonus, premium, renewals, or any other charges are
excessive, and that, in either case, the transaction is
harsh and unconscionable, or is otherwise such that a
court of equity would give relief, the court may re-open
the transaction and take an account between the money-
lender and the person sued, and may, notwithstanding
any statement or settlement of account or any agree-
ment purporting to close previous dealings and create a
new obligation, re-open any account already taken
between them and relieve the person sued for payment
of any sum in excess of the sum adjudged by the court
to be fairly due in respect of such principal, interest, and
charges as the court, having regard to the risk and all
the circumstances, may adjudge to be reasonable ; and if
any such excess has been paid or allowed in account by
the debtor, order the creditor to repay it, and may set
aside, either wholly or in part, or revise or alter any
security given or agreement made in respect of money
lent by the money-lender ; and if the money-lender has
parted with the security, may order him to indemnify the
borrower or other person sued.
“ The foregoing provisions shall apply to any transac-
tion which, whatever its form may be, is substantially
one of money-lending by a money-lender.”
It will take a very long thin usurer to crawl through
that hole. The strength of the Act lies in its uncertainty-
A cast-iron law against charging more than so much per
cent, interest may be evaded by calling the thing
“ bonus,” or by some such wile, but a law which simply
gives the court power to review, re-open, and upset
everything, and which can’t be provided against by any
document whatever, and which takes in every dodge
that is of the nature of money-lending, whether it is
ostensible money-lending or not, is likely to do good
* * + *
The Kauri Timber Co., as near as the remark-
able way in which the accounts are presented allows the
position to be stated :
Net
Written Visible
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
1898.. £142,827
1899.. £18,787 2} per cent. =£14,625 138,665
1900.. 14,201 3 „ „ 17,550 £13,000 155,014
1901.. 43,174 4 „ „ 23,400 50,000 185,240
1902.. 32,549 4 „ „ 23,400 176,091
1903.. 27,691 4 „ „ 23,400 171,800
The last column in the foregoing probably isn’t worth
much. The co.’s principal asset consists of timber forests,
and as these were cut down the amount by which the
asset had depreciated used to be put into what was
called “ Accumulated Assets Depreciation ” in the
balance-sheet. This system, however, apparently came
to an end in 1901, since when the item has remained
stationary, which accounts for the fact that, whereas
formerly the net visible deficit increased, latterly it has
decreased. Why the item suddenly stopped growing is
not explained. The present deficit is arrived at as
follows :
Accumulated assets depreciation £264,920
Less —
Insurance funds £57,261
Log reserve account 8,174
Undivided profit .. _ .. 27,685
93,120
Net deficit £171,800
The shareholders’ capital is now £585,000 ; on that, the
trading profit during the past two years has' been equal
to £5 "3s. per cent, per annum, which, considering that
the co. lives by chopping down its assets, can’t be re-
garded as very brilliant.
* * ♦ *
Extracts from Sydney Sabbath Times editorial
comments on the Labor triumph at the Federal polls :
“Labor has improved its position, and the party will
go back with greater strength. The fact will further
depress the loan market.”
“The Labor party is increasing in strength. . . This
is the significant fact for those who find loan money for
Australia.”
Loans, borrowings—borrowings, loans. The loan disease
has so eaten into Australian politics, that what Bull
Cohen will think is always the first question now.
* * * *
Westralia has decided at last that there is no
hope for the district served by its Midland Railway unless
it gets rid of the mouldy English co. which owns the
line, and borrows money from the State to keep itself
afloat, and runs a miserable delayed hen-coop on wheels
along its two rusted rails, and leaves the farmers*
produce lying two weeks in the rain because it has
not sufficient trucks to carry it away, and no sheds
to store it in, and no tarpaulins to cover it. A Bill
dealing with this and other matters was introduced
last session. Wherefore, the arrogant Bull in London
threatens, as usual, that the supply of loans will be cut
off unless W.A. puts up with any service the English
co. likes to give it. This will never be a free country
till it is in a position to tell Bull that it doesn’t care
a hang for his ioans.
* * * •
So far as it haa gone the Perth (W.A.) motor-
bus service has not panned out as well as the promoters
expected. It is all right where the roads are kept
smooth ; where they aren’t—and that is most places—the
wear-and-tear on the tyres is so great that the calculations
of what would be payable fares have been knocked clean
out.
* * • •
"Brumby”: A callow youth of my acquaint-
ance, wishing to raise a fiver, replied to a “ Christian
Lady ” ad., and was in due course introduced to a Sydney
solicitor. This person fixed the youth with an eagle eye,
questioned him sharply, made him sign a formal declara-
tion that he was not indebted to any other shark,
obtained his signature to a P.N. for £lO, and then
handed him £4 14s. 6d., casually explaining that he
deducted 6d. for the P.N. form and ss. for the “ Chris-
tian Lady’s ” fee. Wanted badly—A Bill regulating the
exact size of a shark’s bite.
• • • •
The offer of £5O to a politician isn't the only
sort of trick that the Red Indian Cheap Jack assurance
concern has to play in order to hook the business which
its own merits cannot command. An “ official circular”
issued to “brethren” offers any of them “a handsome
and valuable solid gold watch” for enrolling 20 new
members within the next three months.
* * * •
Figures like these throw some doubt upon the
claim of the calico-importing interest to be a pure, all-
wool patriot who only wants to scotch the Deakin tariff
in the interests of the people :
Decline as com-
Profits in pared with
1902-3. 1901-2.
D. and W. Murray and Co., Ltd. £40,149 £24,304
Paterson, Laing and Bruce, Ltd. 23,832 23,020
R. Reid and Co., Ltd 26,376 11,817
H. Bull and Co., Ltd 13,123 6,915
Farmer and Co., Ltd 12,000
Farmer and Co., nevertheless, manage to pay 12£ per
cent, on the preference shares, and 6 per cent, on the
ordinaries; and Henry Bull and Co. 7 per cent, on
ordinary and 5 per cent, on preference shares. In the
latter case, however, the reserves have to be touched.
D. and W. Murray pay £37,250, Paterson, Laing and
Bruce £21,000, and Robert Reid and Co. £19,362.
• * * •
The Broken Hill mines are working under the
new conditions set by the Arbitration Court, and nobody
notices any difference. In fact, the companies adopted
the new rules weeks before they were obliged to do so
under the award —pretty conclusive proof that the
miners don’t get any benefit out of the new conditions at
the expense of the owners. During the hearing of the
case some of the men growled about losing their Saturday
afternoons, owing to the day-shift ending at 4 p.m. The
Court had an idea that this could very easily be got
over; without fixing the matter, it recommended that
shifts should be changed at 6 a.m., 2 p.m., and 10 p.m.,
instead of at 8 a.m., 4 p.m., and midnight. But when a
vote was taken on the Arbitration Court’s suggestion,
the men decided by an enormous majority against any
change. The fact is that to come “ off shift ”at 2 o’clock
would give the miner his Saturday afternoons all right,
but to have to go on at 10 p.m-. instead of midnight all
the week would break into many an evening’s fun —and
that was the other small thing which the Court hadn’t
considered.
* * * *
“L.W.” writes : "Hill End (N.S.W.) scene of
the glittering glory of Holterman, still has a certain
belief, not vigorous but melancholy, in the great tunnel
scheme to prospect at a depth, and also drain, Hawkins’
Hill. Considering that said tunnel would be about six
miles long, and that nothing of recent date has warranted
a 6ft. tunnel at Hill End, hopeS are likely to remain
melancholy. Just now there is a faint stirring of dry
bones in the locality ; besides the operations at King’s
Reef it is rumored that Specimen Gully, at the Hill, the
Canton, near Tambaroora, and the Root Hog, on the
Macquarie, are to be revived again. Whatever their re-
sults they are at least more hopeful than the shadowy
and gigantic tunnel scheme.”
* * * *
“Redoubt”: Be alleged special difficulty of
treating Pinnacles (N.S.W.) ore (8., Nov. 19). The
metallurgical snag of all the Broken Hill stuff is zinc,
whereas Pinnacles ore has practically none of that. Even
in the concentrates of Pinnacles ore but little zinc is
found, and as no effort is necessary to eliminate that
troublesome metal (as is the case with Broken Hill ore) a
much higher silver extraction is obtained. Writer
knows Broken Hill ores fairly well, and has seen the
Pinnacles ores treated at Aldershot (Q.) by both wet and
fire methods, and he is prepared to say that if the plant
to be erected at the Pinnacles will do work equal to that
of the plant employed at Aldershot, then the Queensland
Smelting Co., as long as the large ore bodies of the
Pinnacles last and maintain their value, will have a valu-
able asset. Time will show whether the new manager
of the Q.S. Co. (Watson) is right. At present it looks
very much in his favor. Past troubles of Pinnacles,
writer thinks, can be ascribed to defective methods of
mechanical concentration and not to innate metallurgical
difficulty.
* * * *
That mostly-Adelaide-owned N.Q. tin venture,
the Stannary Hills, is trying to get out of its financial
troubles by issuing £30,000 more debentures, mainly for
the purpose of relieving the directors and others of their
personal responsibility for a heavy overdraft. Even this
new issue, however, will not free the co., which will still be
something over £lO,OOO in debt. The whole concern
was based on a series of shocking miscalculations as to
the cost of the necessary works, the value of the ore, and
the cost of mining, and other things. Developments
have shown more ore than there seemed to be a while
back; but the property isn’t anything like good enough
so far as can be seen, to pay on the capitalisation. There
will be a cold time for all but the debenture-holders
anyway.
* * » *
The success of the River Dee slug-hunters has
put life into various dredging and sluicing syndicates
formed to test the Palmer River, N.Q. If the results on
a big scale equal those with dish and cradle some of the
adventurers have a good thing ahead.
* * « *
Queensland Minister of Mines Browne is shak-
ing up the Northern mining sharks. His instructions to
wardens re exemptions are to refuse unless applications
are made in good faith. A recent O. Towers case elicited
evidence, in the case of a mine that had been hung up
for six months, that tributors had offered 20 to 25 per
cent, royalty to be allowed to work certain blocks left.
Also alleged that sooner than let tributors work aban-
doned blocks a shaft was let go to rack and ruin. Yet
this co. had paid a quarter of a million in divs. Another
case is that of the School Reserve ; after being hung up
for several years, it was let to a tribute party, which has
just paid a 6d. div. on its 20,000 scrip. Other instances
could be quoted where the old style of granting exemp-
tion for the asking stood between bona fide prospectors
and good wages.
* « • «
Queen Cross Reef, which holds the Charters
Towers record for 1903, holds also now the record of
being the only O.T. co. which has ever paid £lOO,OOO in
divs. out of mining profits in six months. The actual
working expenses were £120,631 less than the revenue •
but part of the difference between that and £lOO,OOO went
in plant additions. In 12 months 2 tons 161 b. of gold has
been turned out, 1 ton 4cwt. 3gr. of it in the second half
when the profit was equal to £Bl6s. 4d. per ton of stone
treated. The last month’s profit was nearly £21,000.
A far-up South Australian correspondent ex-
plains why all the mica-mining' enterprises die early. The
spar which carries the mica very rarely goes down ;
nearly always quartz takes its place, and quartz doesn’t
carry mica. Then, of the mica that there is, only a very
small proportion is marketable at a price which pays for
export from Australia, London and American markets
being glutted with “small mica” (anything sin. by 6in.
or less is small mica). Of eight tons of mica mined at
one place in the Far North, only one ton of mica could be
cut; and of that lot only 1501 b. was large mica, the rest
being either classed as small or discarded altogether,
»** * ■
There’s some “specking ” to be done even now
after rain at Bendigo, where the country has been
“specked” for 50 years. An out-of-work miner, wan-
dering along an old track after the heavy fall at the end
of November, saw the end of a slug exposed. It panned
out lloz. 18dwt., worth £4l.
(Continued on page SO.)


DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
ymm
• . m:
Narrow or
Round Toes,
special}
VALUE J
ħ
D.J. Orient” Boot
BLACK OR TAN
George & Barrack-sts., Sydney
3?
From Fashion’s Domain.
THE NEW
P-D
..CORSETS..
The Leading Shapes
In Straight-Fronted Corsets.
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on
baud inside, as illustrated.
Obtainable from leading Drapers everywhere.
Society
[?]
AED THE WEATHER SO HOT, TOO!
“Oh Geoge the bait’s sour.” “Hot a bit of it. my girl. That’s the worm turning.”
The persistency with which Maorilanders
are reminded of the royal visit grows monoton-
ous. The Government was asked in a torrid tone,
the other day, when it was going to pay the
butcher’s bill for meat supplied to the troops at the
magnificent Rotorua royal shivoo. It replied, in
a tired, perfunctory way, that further inquiries
were being made, or words to that effect. The
unpaid-bill disease seems to have followed royalty
everywhere.
*** 1 *
M.L. Lawn Tennis Association has been
angling for a titled person to represent it on the
English Tennis Association, and it bagged
Visconde de Horncastle. This gent’s handle was
made in Portugal, but it is reckoned quite good
enough. Cheerfully printed that, besides being
able to play “love all,” the visconde is a great
sport, can handle a cue, ride a bike to some
extent, and float in calm water.
The ways of the Brisbane Charity Organi-
sation Society are interesting—and typical. The
other day Q. Minister Browne wanted to know
how it was that out of a total annual expenditure
of £325 (£lBO of which was State endowment) the
society only spent in relief the sum of £74. The
other £251 was expended (according to the
society’s report) in “supervision and making in-
quiries.” This meant, as Browne remarked,
3s. sd. spent in the supervision-cum-inquiry busi-
ness for every shilling used for relief purposes.
Browne further informed the philanthropists that,
at this rate, it would pay the country far better to
spend the money directly itself, even if 50 per cent,
of those relieved were impostors. Just fancy
spending 3s sd. to find out if a derelict were de-
serving of relief to the extent of a shilling’s worth
of bread. The destitute can’t eat inquiry.
* * * *
As a matter of solemn historical truth it
may be mentioned that the first day’s sitting of
the Federal High Court, on October 6th, has not
yet been brought to a lawful termination. It was
formally opened in the Melbourne Banco Court,
and should have been closed in the same building
when the three judges left the bench. But, in
the excitement of the novel occasion, poor old
Booth, the court crier (since retired), forgot to
perpetrate the proper form of closure, terminating
m “ God Save the King.” Next day, the judges
met in the 3rd Civil Court, which was duly
opened and closed in the ordinary way, without
regard to the fact that the previous court was left
open all night, so that stray hens might have
come in and roosted on the precedents, and their
Honors had (in an official sense) gone to bed
sitting Inasmuch as the court, on the second
day, was not closed in its original domicile there
remains the practically unanswerable question
whether the first day’s court can ever be closed,
except by special Act of Parliament. Moreover,
there are no precedents to prove that a court
which wasn’t formally closed in one place can be
legally re-opened in another ; therefore, the
actuality of all proceedings up to date is open to
grave doubt, and the spirits of Griffith, Barton
and O’Connor are probably a trio of Banco ghosts
doomed to sit evermore on the bench wherefrom
their bodies were not formally released on Octo-
ber 6th.
* * * *
That amiable crank, Book Arcade Cole,
just back from the country where the haughty and
insulting Jap declares a white man unfit to own
land, publishes a pamphlet containing the opinions
of “40_Eminent Japanese” who have patted him
patronisingly on his kind but confused old head,
and approved of his scheme for filling Australia
with colored races. Some of the opinions are
rather amusing. Here is one:
The President of the Chamber of Commerce of Yoko-
hama (Mr. Otani) said : “ I am a cosmopolitan, and every
morning after washing my face, 1 say my pravers for the
peace and unity of all mankind.”
What about the common impression that the Jap
washes the whole of himself ?
a ten-shilling tragedy
The elderly legislator sat at breakfast with his paper
before him but his eyes on the prowl. His wife saj
opposite, and the new housemaid—a rainbow promise of a
girl—:flitted round the table. He was in festive spirits,
The P revious evening he had slipped a half-sovereign into
the housemaid’s hand, and her fingers had closed
' vi *lingly over it. He swept a proud territorial eye round
breakfast-room and its occupants, and wondered in
what spirit of adventure his wife had chosen such a
morning-glory of a girl for a handmaid. The procession
of his domestics, dating from the period when his wife
®. r st began to entertain suspicions, crossed his mental
vis t on - F iae robust wenches they were, as they stamped
f"^r otted P ast > l, ut most of them had faces as long as a
horses, mechanical jaws, windmill ears, arid hair like
horse-rakes on their heads. He pretended to laugh
aloud at something in the paper as he laid it down. His
wife, like a tragic fury, glared at him across the table,
T be housemaid had vanished. He drained his tea-cup
nervously, and, staring foolishly at something in it that
struck bis bps and jingled as it fell back into the cup,
discovered—his half-sovereign.
CLOTHES ITEM.
mrs. smart : “ Yes, £50 a year is all I have to dress on, and yet my husband
marvels at my spending so much!”
MRS. RAPID : “£50 a year, indeed! Gad, I could go through that on my HEAD!”
There was a lot of human interest in a
maintenance case heard at Christchurch (M.L.)
recently. A middle-aged individual wearing a
scarred jaw and a suit of unpawnable garments,
who proceeded against two of his family for
support, admitted that he had had an allowance
of two “ wives,” but got through it. When num-
ber one ran away with the other fellow he tried a
second ; but he did not have an idyllic time,
because they were always wrangling about
religion. The humor of it ! Eventually she left
him and sank to respectability again. The court
made no order on discovering that the children
were illegitimate.
Maoriland prisoners cost their country
much less than the Australian average. At
Auckland the net expense per head of the average
number in confinement has been got down to
£9 45., which is probably the lowest point reached
in any. Australasian gaol. At Wilcanniaand some
other western N.S.W. gaols the average is over
£125. The most interesting current Maoriland
experiment in penology is in connection with tree-
planting at Waiotapu ; unfortunatelv the number
of prisoners suitable for this camp-life is small.
Results, however, are encouraging enough to
justify the setting up of a similar camp at Hanmer
to absorb the suitable prisoners from South Island
gaols. The net cost per prisoner at Waiotapu is
something under £l5; less, that is, than it is at
either Darlinghurst or Parramatta, in N.S.W.
“E.”: Justice Way rules the Adelaide*
Art Gallery just as George Verdon used to rula
the Melbourne Gallery. He has good intern
tions, and believes in spending money on
Australian pictures; but, unfortunately, his
aesthetic sense has remained undeveloped, so he
poses as a connoisseur, and selects the most
howling indiscretions. If he would only “in-
quire, ” and allow somebody who knew to buy for
the Gallery, Adelaide would soon have a repre-
sentative collection of Australian work. Art is
cheap in Australia. Sydney does something,
Adelaide does the wrong thing, and Melbourne
does nothing at all. It’s a pity some place doesn’t
do the right thing—and lots of it.
BEYOND TEMPTATION.
HIS REVERENCE : “I see your man is in trouble
with the police again. It's sorry I am for ye."
MRS REGAN: “Sorry is it! The saints be
praised for it, for I’m never certain the poor
man is out of trouble save when he’s in
trouble.”
It is a Maoriland fashion now to draw
attention to one’s insignificant self per medium,
of “disclaimers” in the advt. columns of the-
press. When you grow weary of obscurity, andi
long to blaze forth into public life, you advertise-
that you aren’t Queen Elizabeth, or Julius Csesar,.
and the thing is done. Recently a divorce case,
was heard in the far north part of the North,
Island, and a person living hundreds of miles;
away in the South Island fled into print to say
that he wasn’t the co-respondent. The man who-
rises to refute the alleged false statement that he-
wasn’t born will yet eventuate in M.L.
ITS PROPER PLACE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VIC.
One day I wrote a poem—
“ These Bards,” said I, “ I’ll show 'em !
Some poems are but part felt,
Each line of mine was heart-felt.
I even saw a tear-drop
Upon my writing-gear drop
When only half way through it—
I couldn’t help but do it;
When one’s best girl rejects one
Verse-writing so affects one ;
My very soul I poured out,
And several lines I scored out
As being too poetic
For times so apathetic.
At last my pen I laid down
With less of sorrow weighed down ;
It’s really very rum how
A change came o’er me somehow.
The exercise of writing—
One’s inmost thoughts inditing—
The feelings does relieve so,
At least I quite believe so.
I all at once reflected,
What if I am rejected ?
What if my loved, lost Alice
Has filled my bitter chalice ?
Yet did I really love her?
Why, no ! For high above her
I’ve always placed, I fancy,
That dear, sweet girl named Nancy ;
She knows of my affection.
Her eyes in my direction
Have glanced, not once but often,
And always seemed to soften ;
She would not turn her nose up
At my suit.
Here I rose up,
Somewhat abruptly flitting
From where I had been sitting;
In doing so I brushed off
My desk the lines I’d rushed off
Quite recently, when feeling
For heart-ache there’s no healing.
Oh, was it fate? I ask it,
For my waste-paper basket
Received that M.S., yawning
For more—it seemed a warning.
And when I saw it drop there,
Well, yes, I let it stop there.
EARDLET TURNER.
TOLL FOR THE SLAVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“This month (November) the last recruiting -essel
leaves Queensland for the South Seas.” —Newspaper item.
Toll for the slave !
The slave ships go no more
To gather human freight
On sunny island shore.
That wealth might wax apace
They spoiled the island creed,
They brought the islands’ best,
To grow the crops of greed 1
The traffic’s evil smell
Was borne on every breeze ;
Its fame was foul as hell
Through all our border seas.
It sprang—an evil tree —
From roots in rotten soil ;
Its branches drew their strength
From unrequited toil ;
It gave us guilty place
On black Oppression’s roll;
The blood of half a race
Is red upon our soul.
But now —our vessels go
On errand dark no more
No more we sell for slavea
The honor of o.ur shore.
Q.
PHILANDER FLAM.


By special appointment to his Excellency the
Governor-General. ,-T. Wild, gentlemen’s hair-
dresser, 30 Sydney " Arcade, Sydney—the arcade
that runs, from George-street to King-street.
(Hours 8.30 a.m. tin til 6.30 p.im, Wednesdays 1,
Saturdays 9 o’clock.) *
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
SILVER STAR STARCH
«?VV" ' .
■; . • ‘ ■, ■
THE BEST IN THE WORLD. -
BE
9t
f
In the S’African war, some of the British
soldiers discovered a new “drink” in cordite.
British Medical Journal byexperimentsfound—
Dissolved in tea, cordite produces an almost imme-
diately exhilarating effect “ inciting to almost demoniacal
actions.” This condition is followed by heavy sleep and
stupor, lasting five to twelve hours, according to the
quantity taken. To awaken the subject it is often
necessary to slap his face, punch or shake him, and
awakening is accompanied by severe, dull, boring head-
ache, muscular twitchings, and protrusion of the eyes.
It is as an addition to beer that cordi'.e appears to pro-
duce its worst effects. It then excites a quarrelsome,
destructive mania in an otherwise peacefully disposed
individual, and produces immediate intoxication in a
man who can commonly consume as much as four or five
pints of beer without exhibiting a trace of having done
so. If taken in quantity insufficient to produce sleep it
makes him not only quarrelsome, but brings out the
worst traits in his character.
* * *
At Woodville (M.L.), tne other day, a
man was charged, before the local S.M., with
breach of a prohibition order, he having been
found in the bar of the railway refreshment
rooms. The stipendiary, however, dismissed the
case, holding that refreshment rooms are not
licensed “within the meaning of the Act,” their
licenses being issued by the Minister of Railways
and not by the licensing committee. Now an
ordinary railway traveller can hardly get to the
refreshment room counter by reason of the pro-
hibited citizens being there four deep calling for
rum.
* * * *
The old houses in Macquarie-streeb, Syd-
ney, opposite Parliament House, which were
built in the thirties by John Dailey, father of
William Bede Dailey, are to be demolished to
make way for a pile of fashionable flats. The
house in which John Dailey conducted an out-
fitting business in Lower George-street, opposite
the Commissariat Stores, still stands, as do his
early private residences in Princes-street and
Upper Fort-street. Another house which is
threatened is the pretty cottage in Bent-street
adjoining the. Australian Club. This was built,
also in the thirties, by Mrs. Frances Cox, mother
of Mrs. W. C. Wentworth and Mrs. Richard Hill.
Francis Cox was an early colonist who carried on
a whitesmithy on Circular Quay, where Harrison,
Jones, and Devlin now have a big warehouse.
Cox died in 1831; his wife in 1847, after which
Richard Hill, M.L.C., occupied the house. He
died there, aged 86.
* * * *
At Broadford (Vic.) a boy of 15 has con-
fessed to the malicious wrecking of the local R.C.
church, and has been charged with “sacrilege.”
Any other kind of wreckage would have been
called plain, ordinary house-breaking and destruc-
tion of property. The extra penalties attached to
sacrilege seem to be imposed on the supposition
that the Deity is less able to defend His
property than an ordinary person, and requires
special police protection. To be strictly logical,
the charge of sacrilege should be dealt with
separately. The church-breaker should serve the
ordinary sentence for burglary and damage. Then
when his sentence expires he should be placed for
an hour in an exposed spot in the presence of an
immense multitude, so that a Higher Power can
conveniently make an example of him by lightning
if it so desires. If it shows no such desire then
the subject might as well drop.
* ♦ * «
“Petramos”: Adelaide rotunda on a
night. A drunk wends his way through the scores
of couples seated upon the sward. He pauses
before a lady and gentleman, and assumes a digni-
fied demeanor. He addresses the male canood-
ler: “Me dear man (hie) wh —why dontcher
marry the girl ? ” Some laughter from all round,
a rush by the man addressed, and the next morn-
ing the lawn-mower gathered up several stray
pieces of delirium tremens.
SOCIAL STATUS.
MRS. ’AWKINS : “Look at the style that there Mary Murphy's puttin' on beyond 'er station—
the ’ussy.”
MRS. O’REGAN: “Sure, it's no wonder , se.in’ her old man was raised from the strates be th'
Corporation to foreman 'uv a plague-rat gang.”
Bendigo Advertiser recently printed a
ora^;^ss h
Dr. had done his utmost, and the services
of a trained nurse had been obtained in the effort
to have the patient’s life. Not to be outdone by
its rival, the Bendigo Independent came out a
few days later with the announcement that a
special service would be held on Sunday at All
Saints’ Church and singing would be rendered by
a “bull choir/’
A parson’s wife in a Victorian country
town has a great business capacity. She calls
upon each new arrival,
and cautiously inquires
by which particular
road to Heaven they are
travelling. If it is that
attended to by her
husband she congratu-
lates them, invites
them to join her social
set, and persuades them
to belong to the various
clubs, etc. If not of
her kind, sympathy is
expressed, “as no other
ohurch has the means
of getting its members
into society. But you
may become a member
of our tennis club.”
They generally accepb
the proffered kindness.
After more talk, dur-
ing which the stranger
is inveigled into fur-
ther sundry societies,
“ Good-bye ! Oh ! by-
the-way, you may nob
play on our tennis
court unless you are a
memberof ourchurch.”
Occasionally the privi-
lege of playing tennis
is too good to lose for
such a small matter
as that. Hence the
success of that parson’s church. The other
churches are now searching wildly for
temptations, and some startlingly wicked
ones are suggested.
* * * »
On the Point Nepean road, at Chel-
tenham (Vic.), is a heap of road metal, and
alongside is a notice on a post—“ On this
spot will be erected the Moorabbin Soldiers’
Memorial in honor of those who fell in the
late war. Donations will be received by ”
etc., etc. That notice has been up a long
time now, but the memorial hangs fire.
Occasionally a wild-eyed man with turnij s
in his hair hunts the secretary up, but nob
to bestow a donation. He is generally
some suburban cocky who had
been taking a stroll late on
Saturday night, and fell over
the obstruction, and broke the
bottle, and spilled the Sunday’s
beer. So far only one of Chelten-
ham’s heroes has received any tang-
ible recognition of his valor: a captain
has had a suburban racehorse named after him.
• * * *
“ We are all socialists now ” —in connec-
tion with things that there’s no boodle in. Even
£ £ Bevan, the Melb. Freetrade and anti-socialist
parson, got on to a platform the other night to
advocate that the State should take over that part
of his own business which doesn’t pay. The
Bishop of Melbourne had moved in favor of “ the
introduction of Bible lessons in the State schools
as part of the school curriculum and Bevan,
who seconded it, said that, though hitherto he
had approved of free, secular, and compulsory
education, he was now satisfied that the churches
wouldn’t “fulfil their duty of providing religious
instruction,” and therefore he was driven to
advocate State action. Besides being an anti-
socialist’s tribute to socialhm, this statement of
£ £’s is about the nastiest thing said of the
churches for a good while. In short, it means
that the churches hang off religious instruction
where the instruction can’t be followed up with a
collection.
A young woman who was fished out of the
fxr 1 ca^ ,r dri f a i d rf •” d „“r
before a Melbourne bench that she might be
smacked by the strong arm of the law, stated that
she had decided to rush into whatever Hereafter
there may be through being unable to pay for her
time-payment jewellery. She was rightly dis-
charged. A girl with a time-payment bangle on
her mind has enough misery to carry without it
being added to by the Court.
SHE WANTED EXPERIENCE.
BILL : “ Now, stright, Liz, are yer sure yer
love me? ”
PRACTICAL LIZ : “ Blimy, Bill, 'ow can I tell
until after I've married yer.”
Bishop Langley’s expressed opinion, at
Bendigo (Vic.), that the “great social up-
heavals” of th epresent day are an unmistakable
sign that the end of the world is close up now, is
probably the last and worst calamity for which
the Labor party and socialistic legislation have
been held responsible. It only wanted the
bringing about of the end of the world to com-
plete the list of disasters due to the Labor
party. Still, if social upheavals can briig
about the end of the world, surely the bishop
ought to heave all he knows. To go to heaven is
a. great thing, but to be of that privileged genera-
tion which winds up the earth’s accounts, and
sees the match applied to the universe, and
departs amid the yell of comets and the howl and
crash of stars, apd the falling overboard of suns
and the general Resurrection, and departs
along with the ghosts of dead Carthagenians and
Assyrians, and Charles I. without his head, and
the Upper House and the Wandering Jew, and
the Irripenitent Thief, and that sees the debris of
the Cosmos being sold for what it will fetch, and
three moons going for a penny—that would be
something worth dying for.
About this time of year a column appears
in the daily papers headed “Christmas Appeals.”
The column consists of letters to the editor from
the secretaries and presidents of so-called charit-
able institutions, begging funds or goods from the
public. Reading these letters, one is struck with
the fine, haughty, patronising tone of the writers.
Almost without variation the objects of charity
are referred to as “our poor people.” It sounds
as if the bosses of these concerns had bought some
droves of poor people at auction. Asa rule, the
full name, title, pomp, and tremendous designa-
tion of each writer are printed in capital letters at
the foot. There is much advt. in this kind of
business, apart from the half worn shirt which
goes to “ our poor.”
The eternal hunt for an easy billet. A
Maoriland corporation advertised for a married
custodian for the municipal baths. An unmarried
man applied, assuring the council on his honor that
he would marry right away if he got the job. It
fell to him on ballot. He wasn’t engaged to any
girl, so it was necessary for him to hustle. The
unattached girls hustled also. Two evenings
running he was called out after dusk to meet a
blushing voice at the gate which said, shyly, that
the partially-invisible owner would gladly help
him out of his predicament, and to have a small
hand that he was wholly unacquainted with put
confidingly in his.
* * ♦ «
Benevolent institutions are too much in
the habit of tight-lacing themselves with rules
and regulations. ; A girl, charged with murdering
her baby, testifies:
She first went to the Board of Health, then to a lying-
in-home, thent.o the Valentine-lane Institution, and then
to Mr. Green’s office in the Domain. She had tried those
places in order to get her child taken care of.
Each of these Sydney institutions had a rule or
regulation the careful observance of which con-
tributed to the murder. There is great scope for
a charity which will take in just one kind of girl
—the one that the other charities don’t provide
for. It might be called the Omitted Girl Society.
* * • *
Adelaide University Board of Discipline
spends most of its time struggling to keep the
students sufficiently quiet once a year so that
Chancellor Sammy Way may hear himself speak.
It has now got down, to trying to persuade some
of the students to suppress or strangle the others
if they won’t be silent. But, after all, the best
way would be for Samuel to be less dreary, or for
there to be no Samuel at all, or for the student
who makes a row to be locked up by a policeman
like any other rowdy, and fined £5 or one month.
* * * *
It looks as though the new Melb. daily-
paper venture will go the way of the others
through the awful disproportion of heavy
comment to crisp news. The defunct papers
of Australia nearly all started with an idea
that a newspaper can be written up. Macaulay
and Carlyle in partnership could not keep
a newspaper afloat. Yet a little daily news-
paper might forge ahead, or at all events keep
alive, in Melbourne, as a purveyor of gossip, on
the Parisian model. Paris is four times the size
of Melbourne, and would only have eight dailies
in the same proportion. But it has twice as
many. The daily paper is often started there
without any capital, and entirely depends on the
writing genius it can put in.
* * * *
Judging by present appearances, the
writer’s great-grandson may wander into a Syd-
ney epurt and find the skeleton of George Henry
Webb still Busy suing the ghost of Maggie Maud
Clieesborough over that alleged compulsory mar-
riage, with ■ Mr. Webb’s stock of shop teeth
gleaming cheerfully in the mouth of plaintiff’s
remains. So far there have arisen out of the
original trouble a charge of abduction, violence
and compulsory marriage, a suit for nullity of
marriage, a charge of battery, and a charge of
making an illegal declaration, and the lawj-ers are
still busy mopping up Mr, Webb’s stock of teeth
in costs.
THE THREE SHE VOTED FOR.
HE: “I hops that you used some discretion
when you voted.”
SHE: “O yes. What can you say against Hill,
Duff and Trumper?”
The Chard divorce case still drags on in
N.S.W. Law Courts, and the last decision is
another victory for the wife. The Chards were
married in 1876, but did not air their troubles in
public until early in 1903, when the husband pro-
ceeded for a decree of nullity, because of an
alleged informality in the marriage ceremony 26
years previously. He won his case after a great
digging up of the bones of ancient biography,
but the decision was upset on appeal to the Full
Court. Counter actions for divorce were then
brought by each party, and the wife won her case,
with costs. The divorce case wasn’t interesting—
just ordinary ; but the first suit, which turned on
the lavy’s neglect to properly dot its “i,” or some-
thing like that, 26 years ago, was a striking proof
that the oldest hair can be split if only there are
enough costs. Probably the reason why hair
grows after death is that the law may split it,
with costs.
WHERE THE LIVE MEN LIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poet has sung of the brazen sky,
And the sun-baked plains where the Dead Men lie ;
The thumper of pulpits with beaming “ chiv ”
Has droned of a Land where the Dead Men live,
Where bones that are bleached and rotted again
Draw round them the shapes and spirits of men.
And he tells of a golden land on high
Where on wings of the Morning the Dead Men fly.
It may be truth or but hazy dream
Where the Live Men lie is a worthier theme.
Where shoddy in piles in the mart is sold
On tawdry puffs for the jingling gold ;
Where wild cat shares on a mystical rise
Go shooting aloft on a bubble of lies ;
Where preachers whose God was a homeless Jew
Lull Dives to sleep in his cushioned pew ;
Where tile-hatted swells of great renown
With invoices faked take the Customs down.
There the Live Men lie, there they crucify
The Truth ; and the Dollar is God on high !
Q.
JOIIHN SMITTH.


A
FESTIVB
NECESSARY
h
“ VALAZE ” Russian Skin Food eradicates
ffreckles, wrinkles, sunburn, sallowness, acne pimples,
all blemishes. Guaranteed to improve the worst skin in
■one month. Price 3s 6<l and 6s,"postage 6d. Miss Nellie
Stewart writes : “ Valaze has made a marvellous differ-
ence in my complexion; cannot praise it enough.”
.Helena Rubinstein & Co., 243 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
The alien-loving press, when the exclusion’
of Asiatics was proposed by the Barton Govern-
ment, centred its huge organ of evil prophecy on'
the pearl-shellers of Thursday Island, and pic-
tured the pearl trade as passing thence to the'
Dutoh settlement of Merouke. John Douglas,
Thursday Island magistrate, visited Brisbane the- 1
other day, and here is what he says after a year
and a-half of anti-alien law:—
The interest at Thursday Island in the Dutch port of
Merouke appeared to have subsided, and the threatened
exodus of pearl-shellers from Thursday Island to that
port has not taken place.
That should encourage timid legislators to bear
up against similar evil prophecies when asserting
white rights.
Laote. —lf you are stout you don’t require it;
if you are thin, you do. No one can afford to
become thin and lined. Lact6 plumps the face,
neck, arms, and bust. If you wish to look grace-
ful send Bs. 2d. to Guest’s, 229 Bourke-street,
Melb., for Lacte (and postage). Advice free.
Sydney agents : Mrs. Rogers, 54 Strand Arcade,
and Miss Cuthbert, 11 Victoria Arcade.*
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY
lisl\ j
RAINCOATS. 1
“craVcmettes"
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 22, 1903.
Mt Dear Arini,—
A fresh lot of naval men are with us. One foot
on sea and one on land—to one girl constant
never. The cruiser Scylla took away the old lot,
a cargo of lieutenants, doctors, paymasters and
clerks, men who were more or less popular and
who accepted a large quantity of entertainment.
In some instances they also accepted wives. The
seaman is the landswoman’s prime favorite,
either for a husband or for a flirtation. He
rarely stops long enough on land to allow
her to find out his limitations, or to
bore her. And he returns from each journey
over the blown wet face of the sea like a
bridegroom to a bride if he be wedded, or if un-
attached, to look for fresh summer pilots to guide
his. empty head unto the shore of nothing.
(Think that’s Tennyson, but -believe it was
“heart”—not “head.’’) The naval men who
have left us carry poetic memories of their war-
ships’ summer anchorages in Tasmanian waters.
There are some very eligible ones amongst the
new arrivals. Australia is no place for the “ well-
born ” but poor young man who wants a rich wife.
We have no heiresses (save one) worth men-
tioning.
“Hop.” returned from putting a girdle round
the earth in six months, is still like that portrait
of himself (in Ashby’s street-case), and signed by
himself, “ I recognise it.” He saw most of our
Australian artists and writers who are in London,
and he says that, judging by their prosperous
appearance, they are at least not adding to the
natural gloom of that city. He was in New York,
but there aren’t many of us coruscating in that
old city, In San Francisco “Hop.” saw Marion
Drewe, a Sydney girl black-and-white artist. She
thinks of giving up that kind of art, and is
studying for the stage. Of his Japanese memories,
about the strongest is that of seeing women doing
navvies’ work. At Nagasaki, his liner was coaled
by women. They stood in line passing the baskets,
laughing and chattering as if they enjoyed the
labor. Coming back here in a German boat, he,
in common with other male passengers, felt at
least a kind of comic indignation at the way the
women passengers inhabited the smoking-room-
leaving their drawing-room a desert. Smokers
were driven on deck, where, in wind or rain, or
both,, they might be seen trying to smoke
under the lee of something or other. If
one continued to pipe in his lawful quarters a
woman would sniff an aesthetic sniff and say, “ I
smell smoke.” Not a man had the sand to assert
himself, and to settle stolidly down to puff with a
pound of strong plug tobacco as his ally. On other
liners there is a notice over the smoke-room door
warning off ladies. I’ve heard that little Emily
Soldene was the only woman who could success-
fully defy the notice without scar ing out- the men
occupants of the room.
Percy Grainger’s 56 mile walk (mostly through
the night) in 16 hours in Maoriland was the cause
of his getting some curious letters. A professional
walker wrote offering to walk him “ for a purse.”
A lily-maid, wrote asking him if he had walked for
the purpose of composing a nocturne. She knew
it could not be for a new moonlight sonata,
because there was no moon that night. One
serious wight took it for granted that Percy would
not d.o long walks if he did, not suffer from
“nerves* and want of sleep,.’’ and went on to
advise a course of thought-power and reading.”
The book that helped him most (to sleep probably)
was In Tune With the Infinite.” Some persons
evidently think that no vigorous person walks
from choice.,
A valuable heirloom left Maoriland when Miss
Ada Crossley brought away a certain tiki—or god
—which Mr. Seddon gave the prima donna. It is
the same kind of grotesque deity which Maggie
Papakura, the guide, used to wear on her neck in
Sydney, only the material of it is different from
Maggie’s greenstone. The Crossley tiki seems to
be very old smoky ivory with opal eyes. Miss
Crossley wore it on her breast at her matinee for
the charities last week.. The image has been the
cause of tribal wars and family feuds, and women
have married! and been married for it. Also the
contralto, was given some of the sacred huia
feathers and divers green-stone charms. She
deserved a few gifts, for M.L. certainly thinned
her down grievously. Manager Tallis has deve-
loped bulging eyes through wondering at the
ready-money condition of its people. Every one-
horse township yielded a fine audience, and
shambling old fellows who didn’t look as if they
had a copper would book five-shilling seats.
Last Wednesday was an epoch-making day.
There should have been signs and wonders, and
failing these, many did not believe. Atmo-
spherically, there was nothing to distinguish it
from an ordinary day of sun, clouds, and dust.
Last Wednesday enfranchised woman voted for the
first time in N.S. W. She was there with a baby in
her arms, too ! Opponents of the franchise used
always to clinch their arguments with a word pic-
ture of a woman with a baby in her arms jostling
her way to the ballot box through crowds of men
to an accompaniment of coarse jests and ribald
laughter. There wasn’t as much jostle as Molly
the Marchioness used in getting to the throne on a
presentation day. There was no laughter or jests
—not even a faint show of curiosity on the part
of a male voter. The she-voter wasn’t half as
interesting as the cricket scores, and she was no
more concerned about the ballot paper than if she
were buying bootees for baby.
i ? ne P rotea * Ol >ly I heard, and it oame from a
lady of 80 year* or so, who arrived in a|bath-chair
to see her grand-daughters vote. “If Queen
Victoria had lived this wouldn’t have happened’’
she said. The republication of a letter written
hy *he late Queen in 1870 reads curiously at
this juncture. “The Queen is most anxious to
enlist everyone who can speak or write to
join m checking this mad, wicked folly of
Womans Rights, with all its attendant horrors,
on which her poor feeble sex is bent, forgetting
every sense of womanly feeling and propriety.”
And yet but for the assertion of woman’s right to
succeed to the throne, where would Victoria have
been?
The Pointers—Darling, Potts, and Piper—
voted early in the forenoon, and the domestic
misfits of their households invaded the booths in
the mid-afternoon. Humors of the situation were
few and trivial, and mostly contributed by the
ladies working for the candidates. A girl with
* huggy, working for Dailey, had promised
to call for two electors, cooks at far apart
«°nn eS ’ a , nd named respectively Jessie and Bridget.
111 make, sure of Jessie,” she remarked; “it’s
an unpromising name. Now, Bridget is a fine,
name , andshe would find herwayhereof her-
self. A small boy, boasting about the elections,
was told to be quiet a 3 he had no vote. “ I have
two,” he said, “ for I’ve squared the nurse and the
housemaid for my man.”
A well-known Sydney merchant, who recently
divorced his wife, had as his principal witness a
lady friend of the respondent—one who seemed to
have accompanied her everywhere, and shared
her room, and received her tender confidences.
Now a marriage is in the air, and witness, 'tis
said, will soon be a wife.
Several marriages are due about this Hark-
the-herald-angels-sing time, and some smart
engagements are verified. Only daughter of Dr.
Fiaschi is engaged to Herr Mumm, one of the
champagne family and an officer in the German
army. Only daughter of the “Redleaf” Las-
seters of Double Bay is to marry an Englishman
whose name suggests a Scotch whisky. Two
sisters of Mrs. “Jack” Toohey of “Buckhurst”
are to marry respectively Dr. Weston, an
American, and Mr. Arthur Davies, a Sydney
merchant. A sister and a brother of Louise Maok
Iso take mates to themselves this month.
A correspondent writes to remind me that in
listing the names of Victorian singers I omitted
that of Alice Rees (Mrs. Max Vogrich). So I
did. Alice certainly could sing some. Concern-
ing singers—following about Patti from a New
York paper:
Patti carries her sixty years lightly. Her face is lined,
and the most generous make-up will not hide the ravages
of tune. But the figure, that exquisite figure, which wa®
always a wonder, is still in the prime of life and bids fair
to outlive the face. In her stage demeanor the great
prinni donna has not changed. She is apparently as
Bu r Pr^ a k h er bouquets and her applause as ever,
and she loves to play her pranks on the audience. She,
whose memory is proverbial, came forward with a sheet
of music from which she pretended to sing “The Last
Hose of Summer,” which every child knows by heart and
which she has sung in public 3679 times. She also cast a
glance at Signor Sapio’g “ Home Sweet Home” sheet to
make quite sure of her part. This song she has sung 798 L
• v!L and when she Ban £ it for the 7985th time last
night there were some in the audience who quite agreed
with her that there is no place like home, and wished,
they had remained there.
Let this be a warning to Melba and Crossley to
retire before they are quite—ss.
.PX Xmas hegira has begun, but the vacuum
is being rapidly filled from inland, and our pave-
ments resound with the boots of country people
buying watches, new clothes, and pictorial post
cards, and talking about the gigantic wheat yield
of 28,000,000 bushels.
From Pater’s Printery, Melbourne, comes an
uncommon fine set of post cards—comic, classic,
Australian, and figurative. You know the way
ships that pass in the day speak each other in
passing with flags ? One set of these picture cards
carries the different flag signals in colors with the
written message. Very suitable for the outward-
bound to send to the left-behind from different
ports.
A series of jolly little booklets, containing;
Sketches arid verse and entitled “Aus.trali
Greetings; ’is also to hand. Sketches of bunnies,,
bunyips, daddy cockatoos, and funny, bogie-like
imps are by a child, Ida Rentoul, who must be a
clever, imaginative kiddy. Verses are by David
Melville, of the Collins-st. Library.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Ada Crossley certainly has thinned consider-
ably. At the Thursday, concert glasses went up
for an astonished inspection of that grey
figure, and the conclusion was that Ada’s
enviable curves were less marked and she was
beginning to look lean. A sinuous, grey garb
pretty well minus a corsage, accentuated* the fact.
“Ada Crossley’s frock at this concert was a-
specimen of the art that conceals- art. A deep
frill of grey-toned cob-web lace came from the*
skirt silk—no sign of the joinev’a handicraft—it
simply came. Then a faint illumination, like
dawn in winter, of dull steel; and silver foliage*
blossoming into, steel flowers a-down the front-
panel. The audience, too, held some fine frockery
—notably Mrs. Claude Macdonald, in a wonderful',
coat of real lace and blush rose decorations, and
Mrs. . Walter Clarke, young, grey-haired, dis-
tinguished, in rose-pink and deeper pink fur-
bishings.
“ Some of Percy Grainger’s idolatresses went to*
the folly of handing up to him crooks and other-
flower favors on Thursday night. For a minute*
the youth hesitated to take them all unto himself,,
and called on J. Jacobs, his partner in that par-
ticular performance, to accept a share. But the*
plump fiddler declined, and Percy had to take*
them all. It’s injudicious of worshippers to*
embarrass their idol in such a ridiculous position.
“In the absence of her own chubby pets, the*
Waxellency dame now mothers Miss Rowan.
The, Rowan girls are mild and domesticated, and',
feed out. of the hand. They have drawing-room
accomplishments and all the domestic virtues. The-
present protegee of the Maddens has especially
great needle skill.
“Election day saw Miss Goldstein buzzing,'
cheerily about town in a heel-tipping grey frock;
with bright pink decorations. A horseshoe of
cornflowers was placed, in a poetic spirit and an,,
unhappily, not-justified optimism, over the heart
locality. * Nervous ? ’ she answered anxious*
females; ‘ Not a bit of it. Yes, I think I’ll poll
well. As yet, it’s a mix-up. Prophecy is useless..
But, however it goes, I’m satisfied at my work..
The cause has gained ground, and I’ve broken*,
down no end of silly prejudices throughout town.
and country.’ Miss Goldstein’s spirit is admir-
able. The next night, when the returns had
settled no end of hopes and fears, and the Gold-
stein score was found to be quite inconsiderable,
Vida, in decorative black and pink, enjoyed the
Crossley concert and didn’t blink an eyelash. Few
women are such good losers.
“Nothing untoward happened to women at the
polling booths. They went in droves, and got to
work with automatic steadiness. Very occa-
sionally a perfect lady came with vine leaves in
her hair, but a handy Robert passed her out, and
dullness reigned again. The baby who was so
great a bugbear in tne speeches of anti-suffragists
turned out to be a very rare occurrence. Just
nowand then a womanly voter.swung her off-
spring dexterously under her left arm as she got
to business with the recording right. But not a
wail was heard, and in no instance was the blue
pencil used as a teething-comforter for the
young ’un.
“ The squattocraoy is wearying of its home-
stead in this beastly country. The George Chirn-
sides, like the Rupert Clarkes, have taken a
fashionable perch in the Big Smoke, and are
settled there when not gadding on the small patch
which calls itself the Continent. Two other
merino families contemplate a similar removal to
Mayfair. The children, don’t you know, have to
be put to school, and their twang repaired
in the English colleges ere it is too late, and
the fond, maternal eye must supervise the
polishing process. No wonder an Australian
Tea Room flourishes in the Big Smoke. And
what a fine harvest there will be when the
absentee-tax comes along, and these people who
find Australia a good enough place to keep them,
but not a good enough place to live in, have to
pay for their superfine delicacy !
“ The next star who threatens to show above
the horizon of 1904 is advertised, at the back of
the hand, so to speak, as * the niece of an English
statesman.’ The ‘English statesman’is under-
stood to be the millionaire Earl of Rosebery.
“Physical culturists are sure to rush the
Vulcana demonstrations of muscle play and
Junoesque posturings at Rickards’. Mdlle. is the
female equivalent of Sandow, and associated with
her is a partner bearing a marked resemblance to
that strong man. She wears a fantastic toilette.
When the tableaux are turned on, some blushing
females would be glad of a little more toilette.
But to most in the house the flesh tints are not
upsetting.
“The hat of the day is reversible. The smart
girl wears it back to front for a change. By a tilt
or an ingenious twist, she can wear it right-about
wheel and look the thing. The saucer hat alone
will be a fixed saucer, and defies any change or
variation.
“Miss Blanche Wallace is said to be engaged
to a rich American in the steel line, who is taking
his congratulations at present in Melbourne. Pre-
sently, as soon as the knot-tying comes off, he
takes his bride home for presentation to Poppa.
The Junoesque beauty will be seen no more trail-
ing her expensive and most saucy toilettes on the
Boards.
“ The next marriage of any note will be that of
Mr. L. S. Daniels’ daughter to Mr. Roberts, of
Melbourne. The Countess of Darnley is expected
to assist at the sacrifice, the bride being her
niece, and a favorite niece at that. Both the
contracting parties are youthful, charmingly red-
haired, and attractive. It should be a bright
ceremony^
“Talk of wedding outfits, ’tis agreed among
local Smartest that the luckiest of recent brides in
4l*e matter of valuable presents from her husband’s
people, was the handsome daughter of a Supreme
Court Judge, who met her Fate abroad, in the
shape of an army man of wealthy parentage and
very large private means of his own. When the
wedding was celebrated here, not so very long
ago, the showy bride sparkled with presentation
diamonds, gifts from hubby and his relatives,
while her white train was edged all round with
valuable ostrich-plumes, brought to his liege-lady
from Africa by the generous warrior. Said
moneyed match caused quite a simmer of excite-
ment among the bride’s intimates, several of whom
'(among them the daughters of another Supreme
Court Personage) still persevere with the pre-
scription, so successful in her case—foreign travel.
“ Aide Browning set a croquet tournament roll-
ing before he sailed away, and it has been kept
a-roll with more or less success ever since. The
most swagger players started the season with
•competitive scorings at the Kooyong, but have
•come along to the Warehousemen’s Sports Ground
for the final. But a grand assortment of trophies
failed to give the game the necessary spice of
■excitement. Croquet will always be the recrea-
tion of pallid curates and listless young women.
It doesn’t even kill time—only bruises it a little.
“ The English papers have hinted at the coming
fashion of Diana astride, so the she-sports of the
Western District have been trying it on. I hear
•of a golfing champion who takes to the notion
strongly, and canters astride her hack along the
roads of Colac to the amazement of Daddy Hay-
'seed and his neddy. But by next winter the
horsewomen of the whole country will have learnt
the trick. The comfort is great, but, unfor-
tunately, the garb that goes with the new, light,
masculine saddle is cut with a quite painful regard
for propriety.
“Melbourne people unanimously curse the
City Council’s system of watering the streets
with sand, in order to ‘lay’ the stickiness of their
tarred surfaces. This horrible innovation has
had more than a year’s trial. Half a million
garments, on a rough calculation, have been
smudged by tar; the dust nuisance is perceptibly
worse this year than it ever was before; and a
mew sort of sandy blight has been introduced into
the community. The discredited ‘ cure ’ for city
•dust is understood to come from America, where
it was probably invented by civic boodlers who
•did business in sand and tar.
“Either the demand for petticoats in politics
is stronger in Victoria than in N.S.W., or
the great difference between the polling of the
two States is due to Vida Goldstein’s superior
■energy and business management. Vida’s enthu-
siasm was appalling. In order to be the first
person to poll for Melbourne electorate, she got to
the Athenaeum Hall at 7.30 a.m., half an hour
before the doors opened, and waited in wet boots
for the historical event. The average married
woman doesn’t take her first baby more seriously
than Vida took her first vote.
“Adelaide University Commemoration was this
year a spectacle not undignified—for the first time
for many years. This was due partly to the
determination of the Council to stop the old cater-
wauling, but largely to a feeling among the
undergrads, themselves that the tiling had gone
too far; also to the influence of Governor Le
Hunte, who, when they apologised to him per-
sonally on a previous occasion, talked to them,
like a big brother, and then made them go and!
apologise also to their somewhat unpopular Chan-
cellor. Under the new arrangement, the students ;
keep their printed programme, and are allowed,
time to sing a highly personal verse as each can-
didate for a degree goes up ; and in return they
refrain from interrupting the speakers. In a word,,
they are now ‘ funny without being vulgar.’
“Melbourne householders are becoming more-
imbued every day with the idea of batching in
flats. A big Flinders-street garter merchant
broke up his happy mansion the other day, and
scattered the accumulated home treasures of
many years for the purpose of going to live in a-
flat, which, after all, seems to be merely the joy
of crowding into a very small space, and having;
no garden.
“ Mrs. Brown-Potter gushingly told am
Australian interviewer the other day that, her'
forthcoming play, ‘Church and Stage,* is a*
new version of an illicit love. If this is a fact, them
the cleric who committed the story must have-
invented a new sin. The hyphened star relates:
how annoyed the Rev. Forbes Phillips made his:
Bishop and holy brethren by writing such a play,.
‘ but that is only to be expected at a departure ofc
this kind.’ Mrs. Potter pleads for the play that,,
told from the vicar’s standpoint, the love, instead!
of debasing, uplifts the characters. A parson on
the uplifting tendencies of sin seems a promising
idea.
“One of the most attractive of Collins-street
charmers has divorced parents, with whom
she takes her turn at the promenade. One
day she pairs off with her petite mother. . Another
day she trots about with papa. There is another
instance in Melbourne of this sort of thing, where
the daughter is allowed her hitched-off father’s
company one day in the week, and it is made a
time of great festivity, in order, perhaps, that the
other six days spent with the permanent she-
parent may seem dull by contrast.
“ There is an outcry among the migratory souls
of this city against the paying-guest style of
lodging. An American matron, who has been in
rotatory residence here a few years, tells how cruel
is the treatment of the paying guest. The gentility
that the name implies is catered for by a meagre
board and a lot of show. The finer the surround-
ings, the skimpier the menu. The paying guest .
grows thin and anaemic. She has her silk cushions .
to recline on, her flowers to perfume the air,
but not . enough victuals to eat; and to complain t
is a vulgarity that would kill your lady hostess.
The dame says: ‘l’m sick of the paying-guest ,
business. I want to be a boarder and have enough «
to eat. A smart establishment by all means, but,
one that will feed you.’ ’ ’
“One young woman who might have been a*i
typewriter goes one better by clerking it to a city
lawyer. She’s as slick as any Yank speculator,..
and whisks in and out of the public offices, getting
through the red tape business with a neatness,and
despatch no man could beat. No larks, either.
She wastes no time on giggling youths of the
Lands and Registration departments. She just
goes right in and gets through her work, her
mind bent on business, and cogitation shadowing
her brow.
“The evolution of the safety pin is something
to wonder at. From secret service through many
generations, it now does its work in the light of
day and unashamed. Designed on a gigantic
scale, the mammoth safety pin is used to catch
the whole back brim of the hat on to the head !
upholstering. There’s no missing it this time.
Think of the advance, from the secret sanctuary
of baby’s wardrobe to the topmost and loudest*
position in the smart grown-up’s toilette.
“Most women find their men relatives ai
nuisance in flower-gardens. They always want to'
cut down one’s floral pets for the sake of neatness;-
and She never knows when He may run amok
with garden-shears or lawn-mower, and clip all the
individuality out of the scene in a trice. Man
should devote himself to vegetables. There’s
money in even a small plot of ground if planted
with the right sort of legume. Three shillings'
expenditure will return nine shillings’ worth of
potatoes. Cabbages and cauliflowers can be bought
too cheaply to make them a profitable crop for an
amateur, but broad-beans are well worth growing.
Use them when they’re tender, little things before
they develop husks. Britishers let all their vege-
tables get too old before gathering. German
cooks serve up dishes of baby-carrots, ever so
much more delicate than the full-grown root.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


YOUR CHILD.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are the best medicine in the world for making sickly children grow up strong
and healthy. What children need in the growing time is plenty of good rich red blood—and Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills actually make new blood. They are the surest cure for all troubles of childhood, like rickets,
peevishness, diarrhoea, stomach complaint, general weakness and St. Vitus’ dance. They, too, are just the
medicine that the little ones like—for they are perfectly harmless, sweet, pretty, and easy to take. They do not
contain the smallest grain of mercury, arsenic, or any other poisonous drug. There is nothing in them that
could harm a babe on the breast. They contain, in fact, just the elements that go to make pure, strong, rich,
red blood. For young children the dose is one-third of a pill, while those over ten should take half a pill, after
meals. What Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills did for little Katie Williams they will do for any other child in Australia.
“ Katie began to sicken with her teeth,” says Mrs. Jane Williams, 48 Greek-street, Glebe, Sydney. “ Then at last
Eickets began to set in. Her stomach got right out of order till she had hardly the strength to move. Her whole body
was sore and tender, and the pain across her little back was terrible. It was pitiful to hear her crying' even when the doctor
touched her. I had special food for her, hut the poor mite was far too sick to touch it. She just lay like one dead. Her legs
had no life in them, and were so twisted that at last they had to be put in sp’ints. Sea baths and every other sort of treat-
ment did not do her a bit of good. Then I heard how good Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People were for little children,
and I started Katie with them. After the first few boxes she seemed better. In a few weeks new life came into her legs, and
she began to walk a few steps. The pains and soreness left her body and she picked up in every way. I kept giving her the
pills until she was plump, healthy, and free from every trace of Rickets. Now Katie is full of life and energy—and, for saving
her life, I can never give enough praise to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.”
2s. 9d. a box. Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney.
Six boxes, 15s. 3d.
I
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Peter McShane, erstwhile cricketer and
footballer of Victoria, is dead at the age of 43
years.
A nigger-loving candidate for Senatorial
honors at the recent election once wrote on a big
official report, “Minite: Mr. Blank must wait
until I here further as to this matter.”
Judge Boucaut (S.A.) was so ill a little
while ago that it was not expected that he would
over sit again. But he has perked up wonder-
fully, and may hang several people yet.
Ex-schoolmasters who carried the Labor
flag, had no luck. Griffith, in N.S. W. ; Rheinold
in Q. ; McMasterin Tas. all put up a splendid
fight against great odds, but were beaten.
A. 0. Barrett, the Laborite, who tried to
knock out the pugnacious Conroy in Werriwa,
served in the Soudan campaign, and a few years
ago raised a company of Australian Rifles.
Adelaide’s best-known democratic priest,
“Father John,” of the Preceptorists, whose ring-
ing sermons often filled a good part of the local
Labor paper, died the other week, aged 35.
A veteran of 82 contested the mayoralty
at Port Adelaide this month, and ran a bad last
in a field of three. At the official declaration of
the poll he remarked that he would have another
try in 1904.
The growing opinion is that Rev. Bill
Macky is not only Jesuitical in methods, but
really is a Jesuit. His moustache and calves are
the exact counterpart of those worn by Jesuits on
the eve of the French Revolution.
H. W. Lee, who downed Frank Clarke at
the Cowper, has lived amongst butter all his days.
Butter is almost the sole subject of his conversa-
tion. He claims to have originated the creamery
system of manufacturing the commodity.
The S.M. Herald had one frank line,
anyway, on the morning after the elections. In
its biggest type it described one of the Argus
anti-Labor four in Victoria as “ Colonel Sim-
pleton”—“Colonel Simpleton (anti-socialist),
13,273.”
N.S.W. Attorney-General B. R. Wise
sickened of his legal studies in England once, and
bolted to America with the intention of going on
a cotton plantation in Georgia. The sickness
passed, however, and he returned to England
and law.
South Australia’s Deputy Postmaster-
General Todd has finished his 62nd year in the
public service, counting in the time he spent in
Greenwich Observatory. In this period he is
alleged to have punned on every word in the
language.
-U
Governor Caringtun once invited Jack
Want to form a Minis 1 ry. Jack’s reply—described
afterwards by a high authority as the most
brusquely unofficial ever received in the circum-
stances —was that he ‘ had cut out a trip to Japan
and must go.”
Dr. Liddell, Federal member for the
Hunter (N.S.W.), adds one more to the athletic
politician class. He belongs to numerous sport-
ing clubs, and talks horse, oricket, and football as
an expert. He is a native of Maitland district,
and a year or so over 40.
A well-known resident of Bathurst
(N.S.W.) was, some little time ago, appointed a
J.P. A customer waited upon him on business, but
had to interview his wife, who stated that “his
worship was over the road at the police court dis-
tributing justice to the people.”
The only student at Adelaide University,
since its establishment 26 years ago, who has won
first-class honors in both mathematics and physics
in the final examinations for the arts and sciences
courses, is John Raymond Wilton, aged 19, the
son of a well-known Adelaide journalist.
Anthony Mills, who died atTimaru (M.L.)
lately, aged 63, was, as a young man, armorer in
the British navy, and served in the Baltic and
Mediterranean fleets. He commanded a company
of British volunteers organised to assist Garibaldi,
got wounded twice on entering Naples, and was
operated on and nursed in Garibaldi’s own house
Another dead miser has transpired in
Victoria. The remains of William M'Mahon,
85, were found in his hut at Oastlemaine. On
searching his clothes deposit receipts for £4500
were found. A large number of M‘Mahons who
wouldn’t speak to William a month ago have now
recognised him as a beloved and long-lost relative.
The Vic. Assembly redistribution of seats
has cut the Jolimontand West Richmond seat to
pieces. It has belonged to Theodore Fink since
Bosisto, the eucalyptus man, died. Fink is now
politically like the Wandering Jew, and says he
will retire and devote himself to his business. He
is an able man—a man with a brain and a wobble.
The trouble is that the wobble is bigger than the
brain.
H. C. L. Anderson’s model of the Burns
statue presents a very commonplace, tide-waiter
sort of person, without any suggestion of “Scots
Wba Hae” or “Tam o’ Shanter.” It is quite
likely to be a truer likeness than the majority,
but truth is seldom satisfactory where likenesses
are concerned. Not one great man in 100 looks as
he ought to.
Grandpa Hegarty, of Surry Hills, Sydney,
attempted suicide, the other day, because he
believed there was to be no old-time pantomime
in Sydney this Christmas. He had taken all his
children to the show, and, in late years, his grand-
children, and he broke down at the threatened
loss of his annual treat.
John Norton’s action in fining himself at
Mackay for letting off artillery in a public place
followed in the steps of early N.S.W. precedent.
Judges who kept the court waiting used to pass
coins into the court poorbox. Barristers, for
similar infractions, not only paid over coins, but
at the close took the jury out for a drink.
Astronomer Russell, who retires from
N.S.W. service at the age of 68, has led a placid
life at Sydney Observatory for over 30 years. A
couple of times only was the surface of his exist-
ence ruffled—once when a bumptious assistant
fought him for his place of power, and once when
someone sent him a comet or some similar explo-
sive, and nearly scattered his remains over his
own telescope.
“ Min ” : Tom Mann, like his predecessor,
Ben Tillett, has become the model of rising
Victorian Labor orators. His most successful
mimic, up to date, is Jack Lemmon, whose
representation is exact in every detail, even
Mann’s lingual defects being copied. His sing-
song elongations, nasal drawl, provincial accent
and too rapid utterance are most faithfully repro-
duced, when not slightly exaggerated.
“ Burglar Bill ” : Rather pleased to hear
of Steele Rudd being retrenched. To think of our
greatest humorist being an under-sheriff always-
made me feel mad. I once saw an under-sheriff
walking third in a hanging expedition. Bob
Howard walked first, the governor of the gaol
second and then the sheriff. I watched them
knock at the door of the condemned cell, and the
sheriff made his demand for the body, which sat
alive inside. It isn’t the billet for a humorist.
Inspector-General Fosbery has just com-
pleted 30 years’ headship of N.S.W. police. He
has been half a century in the public service.
The old house in Phillip-street, where he began
his police work, is gone, and the men who held
dens in the building when Fosbery clerked there
are almost all in the cemetery. It was the first
Sydney residence of the late Alfred Stephen, and
some members of his family were born there.
The present acting-Chief Justice, when a very
young boy, slid cheerfully down its narrow stairs
and whooped in its scanty precincts.
The Rev. Colin Campbell, who died at
Hawthorn (Vic.), the other day, aged 86, had an
unusual career for a cleric. A squatter in Vic.
from '39 to ’5l, he then, for a time, succeeded the
late H. C. E. Childers as secretary to denomina-
tional schools. Between ’54 and ’59 he sat in the
old Leg. Council and the Leg. Assembly. After
another spell of station life, he returned to the
Assembly in ’73, and in ’77 unsuccessfully opposed
Bent at Brighton. He then took holy orders in
the Ballarat diocese, having been a volunteer for
church work for 25 years. Superannuated in ’B9,
he occupied himself with the promotion of reli-
gious instruction in State schools.
Mahutu te Wherowhero, “King” of the
Maoris, who became a satrap of King Seddon,
and received as reward a call to the bedroom
chamber of the Maoriland Parliament, made his
first speech two days before the session closed.
He had for five months been wrapped in deep
thought, or else absent, but when he did speak he
made strenuous objection to a measure brought
down by the Government of which he is supposed
to be a member. A horrified Attorney-General
tried to explain to him the doctrine of Ministerial
responsibility, but Mahutu objected that the Bill
had been brought down too suddenly, and
moved that it be postponed until next session.
As the Bill had been on the stocks for 15 months,
the instance was an illustration of the Maori’s
inclination to think one year and act next century.
Marcus Clarke, by one who knew him :
Saw a good deal of Marcus Olarke in the late SO’s and
early 70’s. I sum him up in this way: Good-looking,
and possessed of personal charm. Always well dressed.
He needed to be so, because he could not be impressive
like some greater men in shabby or ill-fitting clothes
An excellent conversationalist. Of a light, Frenehy
character, and devoid of the sense of rectitude. Great
literary talent, largely artificial in its methods. He nevf r
put any real feeling into anything, having none to put
in. Neither a beautiful landscape nor a matchless
musical effort could move him, but he always admired a
fine literary performance, and would praise generously. A
literary artist, he worked on his subject like an impartial
artificer with a single eye to the effect. Outside of that
no story of suffering could touch him. Without a subject
and time to work it up, he was non-productive. To
write a novel without material within the four walls of a
prison cell, as did Cervantes, would have been a hopeless
task for him. Of distinguished literary ability (he made
a deep study of the style of Ohas. Reade), but no genius
in the sense of capacity for spontaneous creation.
Clarke was always cynically indifferent to criticism of
his own work.
THE DUTIES OF A SETTER .
WILLIE SMITH (resolved to become a sport): “By
Jove, fifteen guineas is a dooce of a pwice for
a setter, isn't it?”
DEALER (confidentially): “Well, sir, ordinary
it is; but there's riz sich a demand for setter
dorgs, consequence o' the poultry farmers pre-
ferin' ’em to the machine incubators, that,
Lor' blesh yer, yer can’t get ’em for love nor
money.”
“Unit ” writes :
The favorable attitude of Rev. Dr. Marshall (Melbourne)
towards a famous relic of the Roman Church, “ The Holy
Shroud of Turin,” suggests that he is making a desperate
effort to stem the tide of backsliders Unitai lanwards.
Half the Presbyterian ministers of the present day are
unconfessed Unitarians. When Rev. Charles Strong, of
Scots Church, Melbourne, surrendered his ppsition in
consequence of his unorthodox views on the subject of
the Atonement, he returned to Scotland, thinking to
found a great new church there. But on interviewing
churchwardens and officers of leading kirks, he was met
by this fatal reply : “ We agree with your views and
have held them for years, but we consider it in the public
interest that the Church should continue on the old
orthodox lines.” So Strong re-packed his portmanteau,
returned to Melbourne, and opened the Australian
Church.
A letter from Yandemonia :
Dr. Elkington, the man whose courage and modernity
of method so promptly stamped out the small-pox
epidemic that Launceston had been gently remonstrating
with for months, has been appointed Chief Health Officer
of Tasmania, with bisr powers and an almost limitless
discretion in case of epidemic or other serious emergency.
Elkington—in face of the difficulties which always
beset a new-comer to Tasmania —has distinctly caught
on. If he continues to take his office strenuously,
he has any amount of work to do. The adminis-
tration of the health laws in Tasmania has always
been a very squalid sort of farce. The marvel is,
not that Tasmanian centres have been so healthy, but
that there has been any health in them at all. The
ports have been practically unprotected against
contagion from the deep sea. The inspection of
dairies and cow-yards has been, at best, patchy
and perfunctory. Sanitary conditions—outside of the
actual city area of Launceston —have been injurious. If
Elkington goes to work to the full of his powers he’ll
raise the deuce of a dust to begin with, and a good many
ancient fossils of great repute and grave stupidity will
squeal most damnably ; but the place will begin to get
clean and many prehistoric stinks will vanish.
Recently deceased Shirley W. Baker began
life as a Wesleyan school-teacher at Chewton
(Vic.). In ’6O he went to Tonga as a Wesleyan
missionary. After a number of years he resigned
to become Premier to King George. He practi-
cally governed the island, and established an
independent Methodist body under the title of
the “Free Church of Tonga.” A discontented
faction made an attempt to assassinate him, and
wounded his daughter, who received gunshots
after throwing herself in front of her father. In
’9O Sir John Thurston visited Tonga, and not
appreciating the Premier’s ruse in contriving that
King George should be intoxicated at the official
interview, and also being dissatisfied with the
Free Church and with things generally, deported
Baker, directing that he should not revisit Tonga
for a period of two years. After remaining in
Auckland for some time, Baker returned to the
Islands, and occupied himself mainly with religious
work. Baker’s Free Church was a vigorous affair
in its best days, and non-adherents were flogged
with an energy which gained many converts.
Hence a great deal of the discontent above alluded
to. Baker, in short, was a horrible example of
how the church behaves when it gets a free hand.
“J.A.C.” writes
_ The American multi-millionaire is, from figures pub-
lished by London Tatler, really a person of comparatively
moderate income after all. J. Pierpont Morgan has
assured the New York Commissioners that his taxable
property, all his just debts being satisfied, amounts to a
negligible quantity. He pays, this year, tax on £BO,OOO,
and that only because he does not want to be looked
upon as a “ tax-dodder.” Poor but honest! Jacob Schiff
and George W. Vanderbilt are equally conscientious.
They are assessed on £40,000 and £lO,OOO respectively.
John R. Drexel, who has no such scruples, has “ sworn
off” altogether and professes to be a millionaire with no
money at all.
The late Monsignor O’Hea, of Melbourne,
when*he had charge of old St. Paul’s, at Coburg,
often read a sermon from a book of religious dis-
courses instead of preaching an original one.
When he was remonstrated with he used to say,
“Preach myself? Surely the people’d rather
hear Bossuet or Bourdaloue in English than me !’’
But the collections were bad. Besides not getting
value for their money in sermons, some of the
Coburgers thought “the Dane’’was rich enough
and didn’t want a collection. Then a smart young
curate, named Dowling, who could talk well, was
sent to Coburg. “I’ll do the preaching every
Sunday, Mr. Dean,” said he, “if you’ll let me
keep all I get above the average collection now.”
The “Dane” consented, and young Dowling
carried a mug of silver coin up to his bedroom
every Sunday.
“Johnny” Gordon, who has moved up
from the S. Australian Attorney-Generalship
to the Supreme Court Bench, is pretty commonly
thought of as a promising young fellow of 30 or
so—perhaps, by this time, getting on for 40—
whereas he is really 53, just the same age as
Kingston. , “Johnny,” who has in S. Australia
something of the same sort of reputation that
George Reid has in Sydney, was, like George,
born in a Seotchbyterian manse. Gordon studied
theology for a time, got into the law, set up in a
southern township as a solicitor, and passed into
politics in 1888. He was never reckoned a top-
notcher as a'lawyer, but be is as pretty an after-
dinner and literary-society speaker as Adelaide
has. As, at the time, the only available lawyer
in the Leg. Council, he was Kingston’s represen-
tative there when the famous row over the Ade-
laide Hospital started. The row, in fact, started
over a close relative of Gordon’s Gordon sided
with the relative, and left the Ministry. Still, in
the last 10 years he has had seven yenrs of office,
so he hasn’t done so badly. Yon Doussa, who
succeeds him as Attorney-General, is a hard-shell
Tory. Gordon is a Tory, too —but not a hard-
shell. Bundey, his predecessor on the bench,
has nearly killed himself with work. Justice
“Johnny” isn’t likely to do anything of that sort..
PALSIED.—THE HAND OF DAVID, THAT
ONCE CONTROLLED ELECTIONS.
The people have responded to the frantic appeals
of the Melbourne Age by putting Syme’s great
enemy, Therewith at the head of the poll.
“ Marat,” on an old player :
This poor old George the Showman is about played out.
I hadn’t seen him perform for about ten years ; so the loss'
of the old-time fire and energy, and the slovenly way he
did his juggling business, surprised me. Last time I saw
him he was doing a balancing trick called “ Tearing Down
the Upper House,” from a hotel window in Park-street*
and it was good ; so, hearing that he was to appear in Red-
fern the other night, I went. lam sorry now. I wouldi
have liked to remember him as he appeared that night
ten years ago, when he threatened to tear down the
Salomons, Browns, and Jacobs who were blocking his.
path to fame. When I arrived the crowd was in a playful
humor. Someone up on the platform was craving a hear-
ing on the ground that he was connected with M’Gowen
& Co. for a number of years, “ Surely they were not going
to desert him.” I rubbed my spectacles and tried to make
out who was talking, but the light was bad. “ Who is
it?” I asked a bystander. “Old Dry Dog,” he said*
promptly ; and I lost my spectacles in my astonishment.
I wish someone would form a society to take actors*
clowns and stars of all classes, and care for them before
they start on the down grade. The spectacle of an elder'y,
stout old juggler trying to go through a performance
which the small boys ridiculed, and craving their indul-
gence on account of his one-time cunning, is depressing.
It reminded me of an old confidence-sharper asking pity
from a judge because he wouldn’t have been caught
picking pockets if it hadn’t been that he now pic-kecf
clumsily’ as the result of old age. When a youngster
threw in a witty interjection some pitying bystander told
him to “ pull oil.” “ He’s getting old now, and he’s not as
nimble with his tongue as he used to he,” the bystander
explained. Granny, in Hunter-street, gave him a good
notice next day, though. But, then, Granny is getting
1.0 o hack number herself


Xmas
Presents*
THE
GUINEA
r° & 3&0
n
C-»
✓V-
t £
/3>
'=<=s
/f^
V-
AUSTRAL CAMERA
Send for Catalogue.
375 George Street Sydney.
260 Collins Street, Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Vice-Regal
Jewellers.
fc>
a
Av
S 5
v
r 13 Hunter Street, Sydney;
(And at London). US Queen Street, Brisbane
WRITE FOR . . .
Hardy Brothers'
1903-4 CATALOGUE
SELECTIONS SPECIALLY CHOSEN for the
Season are PROMPTLY SENT on APPROVAL,
including little novelties for
—i-JEW YEAR GIFTS.
A CA TA LOG UE will be sent POST FREE to any address
in the Commonwealth.
Chaste Silver Scent Holder,
with Silver Cork, to take
4711 Eau-de-Cologne, 23/=
Aboriginalities.
CHRISTMAS EVE.
JONES (who has been celebrating it): “Great
Scotsh! — hie — wha'ra awful fate! I mush be
losht in the bush !”
“ Minaritchee,” on an alleged article of
food:—
“ Why don’t your bush liars tell us how to make a good
damper ?” asks “Polstan” (8., 3/12/’O3). Because they
can’t. True dampers (made of flour, salt, and water only)
are of the past. A vast number of bushmen and women
cook their own bread daily, yet it is doubtful if one good
damper has been made for twenty years. I spent my
third and fourth decades along the western fringe of the
artesian belt, where every man is more or less a cook,
and the conditions are favorable to damper produc-
tion. Many thousands of flour and water effects
were observed without affording one fairly digestible
specimen. Previously, however, in the '7o’s, during a three
years’ peregrination of Riverina, true damper, palatable,
nutritious and satisfying, was tested daily ; was, in fact,
as common as cursing. But the quality declined rapidly
in the late 70’s. I don’t think the decadence was due to
loss of skill. The men who perpetrated sodden outrages
in the 80’s and 90’s in Queensland were generally identical
with the artists who triumphed in Riverina in the 70’s.
The change I attribute either to difference in the wheat
used in flour-making, or to difference in flour-milling
methods. But the bush pioneers are not without compen-
sation, for while the damper has declined, the evolution
of the johnny-cake has reached a high point. The latest
triumph can be produced in 25 minutes from the moment
you unshoulder the bluey. Method: Make a fire of
sound, dry sticks about an inch thick. Mulga, box,
coolibah, or bloodwood are best. Gidya and desert gum
are too hot and ashy ; lancewood and stringybark too
dead. Good coals will result in ten minutes. Meanwhile
mix dry flour and baking-powder thoroughly. Make
dough quickly and roll with jam-tin into circular cakes
4in. wide by jin. thick. Place on coals. They begin to
rise at once, and within two minutes each will have
assumed hollow globular form. When the underside is
browned roll the globe over with a stick. If the fire is
well planned as to area and strength the baking of a
batch will not occupy more than five minutes. The
result is an ambrosial food. If not thin enough the cakes
will not puff up, but become mere leather-jackets.
* * * *
“Ed.”: The mutton-bird, or, properly,
the short-tailed petrel, comes in September, and
disappears from April to August. It nests in a
tunnel about 3ft. long, made in tussocky sand
hummocks, in the islands of Bass Straits and the
neighboring seas. The mutton-bird lays only one
egg, which, like all eggs laid in hollows, is white.
Coming in September, they clean out the old
holes, then go to sea for some weeks, and return
in the third week in November. Flinders men-
tions that when in the Straits, in 1798, he passed
through a flight; the stream of birds lasted one hour
and 35 minutes. He reckoned the numbers were
over a hundred million. The mutton-bird is not,
as “ Penguin ” (B. 26/11/’O3) says, too nauseous to
eat. Let “ Penguin ” scald a scarcely-fledged
mutton-bird to remove the feathers, split the body
down, lay it in salt for a week, then parboil it,
and afterwards fry it in its own fat to a delicate
brown, and he will decide that the sweetest rasher
of bacon is gall compared with young mutton-
bird. Have seen a young mutton-bird’s body
dried and a wick drawn through the body for use
in place of a candle. Egging has its risks;
goannas and snakes abound in the rookeries,
living on eggs and young birds.
“ A.A.” : For dare-
devil riding never saw
anything to equal that
of Monaro men, and
have had a wide ex-
perience from the
Gulf of Carpenta-
ria to Twofold
Bay. Best thing
I ever saw was
many years
back at a
cattle muster
on a station
on one of the
Kosciusko
Ranges, when
a now well*to-
d o resident
o f Bombala
named Jim
jumped
on the back
of a wild bull
from the top
of the stock-
yard gate. It
can be more
easily imag-
ined than des-
cribed how
the bull per-
formed, buck-
ingand bellow-
ing around the
yard for half-an-
hour. The gate
was thrown open,
and away over the
range went Jim and
the bull. All attempts
to yard them again were
hopeless, bull charginghorse-
men and everything that came
in his way. For two days and
nights we followed over hills and
down gullies and gorges in a vain
attempt to release our mate from his
perilous ride. Early the second day both
were showing signs of fatigue, and our only
hope was to supply Jim with some tucker and
whisky to keep him fit until his mount would
collapse. Bags of tucker were thrown at him, and
when they caught on the bull’s horns, Jim took
the provisions off and ate them. He was going
well on the evening of the second day when bull
fell from exhaustion. A friendly bullet from a
rifle put him out of his misery. His bones, I
believe, still bleach near the Soda Water Springs
at Rock Elat. Distance travelled was over 80
miles. If you don’t believe me, ask Pope Dill X.
* * * *
“Ku-Klux” : He recent Bulletin par
concerning the color of the gills as a test. There
is one part of a fish which no man can fake—the
eyes. The eyes which look clayey and dull
denote that the consumer had better “pass fish.”
[But the dull appearance is merely a sinking-in of
the eyes. The old fisherman in Blackmore’s
“ Maid of Sker ” used to put that right by insert-
ing a splinter of wood to make them bulge out
again. Then he sold the fish to Hezekiah, the
horologist. This device might be worth trying.
—Ed. B.]
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRIES ILLUSTRATED. — CABINET-MAKING, AS IT IS
DONE IN LILLY BUCK-STLEET.
“ Dogspike”: Saw during the late drought
what to me was a new method of driving pigs to
market. These ordinarily obstinate brutes did
their twenty or so miles per day along the
Goondiwindi road into Warwick at the tail of a
cart containing hunks of dead sheep, cattle, etc.,
collected in surrounding paddocks. Every few
yards a morsel was dropped overboard, and, as it
was good, healthy, loud-smelling carrion, there
was always a scramble for the tit-bit, and a
cheerful readiness to travel at the tail of the cart
in hope of more.
“ Thurla ” sends this :
«« Old Oove ” (B. 3/12/’O3) can’t stand “ H.S.B’s’'state-
ment re pastoralists and farmers (B. 12/11/03) and says
let “II S R.” localise his growl. Allow me to localise in
support of “ H.S.R.” I knew of a farmer in the Bingara
fN/S.W.) district who had two youths working for him—
ploughing and wheat sowing—for clothes and rations
only ; they were about 18 or 19 years of age. Another
farmer in same locality had a man ploughing and wheat
sowing for 12s. per week and rations, working six full
days a week, and acting as rouseabout at the house on
Sundays. So much for Bingara farmers; now for the
pastoralists : One station on the Gwydir pays its hands
from 12s. to 15s. per week, and the station drovers hi per
week, but these last only do droving from station to
station and nothing else. Then in the Manilla (N.S.W.)
district the ploughmen only receive from 12s. 6d. to 15s.
per week. Probably “ Old Cove” is a good sort of em-
ployer, and does banquet his campers on potatoes, sauce,
pickles, etc. ; but he is only one in a hundred.
* * * *
“ J.L.” : Be the luck of the drunk. Some
time ago was standing on the rear platform of a
train doing about 25 miles an hour. Boozed
swagman sitting on the step asked where it ™
bound for. On being told swaggie mumbled
something about “the wrong train.” Before 1
realised what his intentions were the party with
the swag stepped off the carriage. He lobbed on
his feet, turned three and a half somersaults, and
then slid down the embankment on his head, just
reaching the bottom before his swag, which had
stopped to do a series of extraordinary bounds on
the permanent way, and to finish a kangaroo-
dance on the grass. A relief party from the next
station found the ruin busy hunting for his pipe.
Beyond about a square foot of gravel rash dis-
tributed over various parts of a very useless citizen
he appeared none the worse for the performance,
and said he would do it again for a pint of beer.
« * * *
“ Myall ” in reply :
The fact that 70 per cent, of stock in Walgett district
perished in five years proves nothing against the utility
of artesian water. The first crop in the district irrigated
with artesian water was grown in 1900. In 1901 a few
landholders who enjoyed the benefit of proximity to a
bore followed the lead, but it was not till 1902 that the
bore water was generally availed of. The crops in 1902
averaged over two tons to the acre, but the aggregate
supply of fodder produced was useless for stock-raising
purposes, as only a few bones existed. Could mention a
couple of far-seeing landholders, however, who saved 80
per cent, of their flocks by the cultivation of sorghum.
Irrigation with artesian water is but in its infancy ; it is
when the next drought happens along that the benefits
of artesian water will be fully appreciated.
* * • *
“ Belmont ” about a horse and a doe :
I am sure there never was another such horse to kick
and bite. He did it so unexpectedly, too. He would be
looking a stranger square in the face, apparently about
to communicate some information of value, and then
suddenly lift his hind foot, and fetch the unsophisticated
man a rap on the head that would make him see seventy-
five dollars’ worth of fireworks in a minute. We had a
dog, a black and white, and if ever there was a dog who
thought he had a head full of knowledge it was that dog.
How plainly I can see him approach that black horse to
sniff his heels. He ought to have got a longer sniff than
he did, considering that he lost the greater part of one
ear in the attempt. It was done so quickly that we would
not have known anything about it had the dog not
spoken of it himself. He never sniffed that black horse
again. The flavor wasn’t what he had been used to,
I think. Three days later, when he was turning round
to speak to a flea near his tail, as is customary with dogs,
the black horse unexpectedly reached down and took a
mouthful of spinal joints out of the dog’s back, and
mortification from being thus caught preyed so heavily
upon the dog’s mind that he died in a minute or two.
The Bulletin has doubts about the truth
of this yarn, which comes from Westralia :
Two ringers from the Speewah, while looking for graft
in W.A., struck a cookie who wanted 861 sheep shorn.
It was just after breakfast. Cockie said, “ Put your
nags in paddock, tucker with us in kitchen, and shake-
down inside to-night if it rains.” They tied their horses
to fence, didn’t even unsaddle, shore the lot, got cheque,
and were 10 miles along the road before Gertrude
Josephine Amelia, the cookie’s daughter, hollered out
“ Dinner’s ready.”
RILEY’S GOAT—A LAY OF ELECTION TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ There are many complaints of the lack of interest
taken in the elections. — Daily paper.
Have you heard of Gidya-Gidyee ? It’s a little backblox
town
Where the waters of the Barcoo and the Bunyip Creek
come down,
With a weary population, mostly idling round the pub.—
You might find it, but the chances are you’d miss it in
the scrub.
Now the men of Gidya-Gidyee all had votes, as all men
should,
And they reckoned to record them for their bleeding
country’s good ;
So they spouted in the shanty and debated heatedly—
Half the town was for M'Clusky ; t’other half was for
M'Gee.
And the town grew animated and was filled with wild
alarm ;
Everywhere you chanced to ramble you would see a
whirling arm ;
And the Tree of Friendship withered, and a worm
gnawed at its root,
As each candidate’s supporters dodged the other fellow’s
boot 1
Then the day came on for voting, and they gathered
round the booth ;
The M‘Geeites had been drinking and had nearly slain a
youth
Who had rashly classed their idol as a Yellow Irishman !
Saints above ! Their roar of anger blew the wheels off
Simpson’s van!
“Look ye here!” yelled old M'Ginty, pointing to a
william-goat
That was out upon the common, cramming sundries
down its throat,
“ See that billy-goat of Riley’s feeding there upon the
thrack 1
Well, our candidate’s a Green man—green as that old
goat is black ! ”
“ Black be domned l ” said old man Watson ; “ mon, the
sainted goat is broon ! ’’
" Ye’r a liar!” roared M'Ginty, “an’ a crazy Scottish
loon! ”
“ Fenian ! ” gasped the angry Scotchman, off came hat
and off came coat,
And like tigers they went at it o’er the color of the
goat.
Sandy fought for bonnie Scotland, in his eye the battle
light;
Pat had visions of ould Ireland as he landed with his
right.
“ But,” remarked a long Australian (all his words I can-
not quote),
“ What’s the blanky use of fightin’ 1 Why not catch the
blanky goat ? ”
As a sensible suggestion it was greeted with a cheer ;
Both the foes agreed, and Patrick’s teeth left Alexander’s
ear;
As a graceful recognition of this kindness, from Pat’s
throat
Sandy took his bony fingers, then the crowd went
towards the goat.
But that wise old goat of Riley’s had been often caught
before,
When the township kiddies rode him, and a knowing
look he wore,
As he cantered past the leaders. Then the men who’d
come to vote
Circled wildly round the township in the wake of Riley’s
goat.
Then in haste the goat departed and the aggravated
crowd,
Pantingly, like blood-hounds followed ; frequent were
the oaths and loud 1
Till two miles or three were covered and the town was
out of sight,
Then O’Grady at the goat threw heavy clods with all his
might.
Sad to say one clod when falling struck a man upon the
head
Who was solid for M'Clusky, and he fell like one struck
dead ;
And another hit O’Grady, and he raised a wailful note ;
Then those voters scrimmaged fiercely and forgot about
the goat.
Gory were the deeds of battle, loud the yells of Jim {and
'Bill
While the sunlight made a halo round the goat upon a
hill.
This and that way raged the struggle, many lay upon the
loam,
Till night fell upon the carnage; then those warriors
went home.
Not a single person voted save a solitary drunk ;
For the rest, completely wearied, straightway tumbled
into bunk.
And the unit, as to methods being somewhat at a loss,
Scratched out both the names before him and then wrote
his own across;
No ; I can’t say if M'Clusky or M'Gee it was got in ;
But though years and years have drifted o’er these thirsty
sons of Sin,
You can always raise a battle in that dreamy sun-baked
town
If you shout in through the pub-door : “Patrick Riley’s
goat was brown 1 ”
Then you’ll hear a shriek of anger, and you’ll hear a rush
of feet,
And it’s wise to run your hardest down the lone and
dusty street ;
For some men in Gidya-Gidyee would refuse a heavenly
crown
If the giver of the diadem said Riley’s goat was brown.
N.S.W.
RIVERINA.


%
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A CURE FOR KIDNEY AND
BLADDER TROUBLES.
New Year
mts^
have commenced
to pour in on us.
These, so far, re-
veal great
changes in style
of Jewellery.
In Silver Nic-
Nacs our Home
office advise great
reductions in
price, and this is
strongly empha-
sised in the lines
so far imported.
Solid silver
Shaving Brush,
heavy and best
hair, 10,6; other
designs, 5/6, 7/6
Solid Silver
Sovereign Eox,
to hold
5 Sovereigns
116
Hair Pin Roller,
Silver Top,
Gilt Inside,
2/6, 3/6.
Others, 3/6.
ĥ
Real Sealskin Leather Purse and
Card Case combined, large Solid
Silver Mounts, with Patent Strap
Fastener, 7/6.
Ditto, in Alligator, 6/6.
Without Centre Strap, 4/6.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS:
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
HOBART.
Highfield Hotel
Tasmania's Leading Hotel*
Newly erected; commodious ;
cuisine, accommodation, perfect.
LEO'S BACK HAIR.
MRS. JUMBUCK: “ Shure, Mick, how the divil did they
manage to shear them? ”
“Polstan”: A difference between fresh
and salt water mussels lies in the faofc that while
the latter are
quite helpless
once they are
detached from
the clump or
pile to which
they belong, the
former can walk
anywhere they
please. A fresh
water mussel,
when it wants
to go to see its
girl, or attend a
Y. M. C. A.
meeting, mere-
ly gets on its
edge, opens out
its shell a little,
and then, pro-
truding a por-
tion of its body,
makes the pace,
leaving a deep
track behind it
in the mud. But a fresh water mussel doesn’t
taste as good as its salt water cousin. I cooked
and tasted one of it once, and I regret to say 1
still taste it. I’d rather eat the shell than its
occupant any day.
* * * *
“ W.W.” : In the Tumberumba (N.S.W.)
district, many people are at a loss to know what
has become of the hares. Before rabbits became
so numerous the district was overrun with hares;
now you might drop across a dozen in along day’s
ride. Some think the rabbits have driven
them out. It’s my opinion fluke has thinned
them. Noticed hundreds of dead ones a few
seasons ago. At the time they were dying so
fast, shot an old buck, poor as wood, and he was
about the flukiest animal on this earth. Rabbits
in this district are also fluky; 90 per cent, of old
rabbits are affected. Dams, tanks, and waterholes
from which water for domestic use is drawn are
seldom wire-netted, and in dry times, when thou-
sands of rabbits drink out of one small hole, water
should make good hydatid soup if well boiled.
• • * *
“ War E.” : Wonder if it is the ruthless
destruction of birds by phosphorus baits for
rabbits that is responsible for the present-day
plagues of grasshoppers, butterflies, caterpillars,
etc. ? Nature intended every bird for some pur-
Eose, and when man steps in and destroys these
irds wholesale, something is bound to happen.
That’s my theory at any rate!
“Bunny”: If the Umber-
umberka (Broken Hill) water
supply scheme had only been
taken up in earnest at the proper
time, some shortmonths ago, what
a magnificent and almost inex-
haustible supply of rain water
would have been conserved ! The
creek with the rumbling name
ran almost a banker for days after
the late storm burst on the Bar-
rir. The total Broken Hill rain-
fall for the year to date has
been 1104 points. Only once
since 1894 has so much rain fallen
in any 12 months. At Poola-
macca 205 points fell during the
recent storm. Broken Hill had
three thunderstorms in 48 hours
in a recent week. Usually the
thunderstorms are followed by
gales from the south that dry up
the land in a few hours, and
restore the dust to its damnable
dominion. But the climatic con-
ditions of the Barrier have been
much modified since the break-
up-o’-the-drought. The thunder-
storm was accompanied by the
heaviest rain that has fallen here
this year. _ Thirty-two points fell
m ten minutes. Two minutes
after the rain started the street
channels ran bankers. Had this
rain continued a little longer the
situation in some parts of the
city would have become serious.
Broken Hill is drunk on rain
water now.
others' 0 ’” 0n various bush g raf ters and
in < FW<f/i 1 9 /vvn "°i d oove ’ s ” remarks in reply to “H.S.R.”
id. (3/12/ os) so far as wages in the north-west (NSW)
H Ce !r e . d ' . Have P aid from £l t 0 30s - Per week in the
district myself for good men—and only eight
hours per diem at that. But “Old Cove’s” menu of
spuds, sauce, pickles, and jam ad lib. must not be taken
rule. There is only one man in that
d str ct who tuckers ’ his men in that generous style.
p“ c . let t ,.11.-S.R. name the Southern portion of the
was tern Division, and I’ll not deny that very few pas-
loransts or farmers give their men more than 15s. per
week. In fact, 15s. may be taken as the maximum for
station and farm hands; the hands are born and
reared m the district, and would sooner accept
15s. than travel far afield for more. Quite a
ainerent class from the out-back workers. Mostly the sons
of cockles ” who took up the poorest land in the coun-
try at a time when the richest was open to them. They
had no enterprise, no ambition. Possessing the strength
of bullocks—with the brains of bullocks—they tackled the
strong scrub nearest to them. Where they dropped they
stopped, and their descendants take after them. Tem-
perate with the rum by necessity, and respectful by
instinct, they work as hard as any two men in the N.W.
for half the pay. With contract work it is much the
same. They will take a contract at less than half the
price established in the North, and do the work well
a .J us k.* :o a job near home.” Of course the swagman
looking for work” stands no show in the South,
except for a day or two at harvesting. There
is a prejudice against him not altogether undeserved.
Last time writer met him he had “ just missed a job ”
had a narrow escape, in fact. But he would tackle any.
thing “just to get a few bob to help him along the road.”
Had a figure like George Reid’s, and looked as soft as a
six months babe. Writer didn’t feel very charitably
inclined, having had a year’s income destroyed that
morning by a hail-storm as large as turkey eggs, but,
after thinking hard to discover a job, offered George Reid
£1 and tucker to dig up the garden. He looked offended,
and said he had thrown up a job at 9s. per day, mining,
and “ wasn’t taking any blushing quid a week.” Writer
retorted that a man who preferred cadging to earning
that wage ought to be kicked hard, and was informed in
return that he was “one of these lurid Jcapitalists who
sweated the pore workin’ man ’’ and that he (G.R.) would
walk to Broken Hill before he’d be sweated. Told him to
wa k to Broken Hell.
“DEVELOPED BY THE WET PROCESS.”
“ Marat ” : At the office of the Curator
of Intestate Estates, the other day, I conversed
with a woman dressed in crape, who was waiting
to interview the Curator. Told me she was trying
to obtain the £5 gratuity due to a husband who
was killed in South Africa two years ago. Is this
another permanent and reproductive work, or
what?
“Monowai” (who is also in “the kid-
whacking business ”) protests :
We have it, on the authority of Aristotle, that a man
can lie, and yet not be a liar —that, in fact, an occasional
sin does not necessarily constitute a habit. I have been
ten years a schoolmaster and only had occasion to “kid-
whack” once, and my case is only a type of many. I
humbly protest, therefore, against the nick-name. You,
I doubt not, may have had occasion in the course of your
career to dismiss an office-boy. Are you, therefore, -iustlv
to be called a “ kid-sacker” ?
“ A.H.” : Scene, Little Bourke-street,
Melbourne, during the recent Chinese strike dis-
turbance. One Chink, sorely battered in the
fray, is being carted to the hospital by a Scotch
constable. “You heathen divils seem to make
this a dommed serious business.” Chow: “My
word! This no blanky railway strike .” Poor
railway man! His cup of sorrow was already
full, but to be reproached by a Chow !!
THE HOLY COW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Talk of church bazaars and religious raffles—Anglican
and Presbyterian, and Wesleyan—they are poor little
side shows compared with what the R.O.’s can run when
they choose. At Lismore (N.S.W.), the other day, a sale
of gift cattle to St. Carthage’s Cathedral brought in a
total of £2050. It is stated that, before the sale was held.
Bishop Doyle sent a sagacious cattle expert to visit the
R.C. farms and stations in the diocese, and select the
beasts that would be most suitable as offerings to the
Lord. The expert seems to have performed his duty
well and truly, judging by results.
Where the Richmond River runs
Sure the Holy Church has sons
Who will not see her want while they can spare ;
Mick Quinn, up there of late,
Put a cow upon the plate,
But Patsy Hogan beat him with a pair.
Bishop Doyle, with judgment sound,
Sent a cattle expert round
To the stations and the farms to put a cross
On the bullocks and the cows,
So that not for lack of nous
Or foresight should religion suffer loss.
Then the stately, chosen beasts,
That were sleek and fat as priests,
Came pacing in their pride of flesh and bone ;
And their joint melodious low,
At that pious cattle show,
Was an anthem swelling upward to the Throne.
Where the Richmond River runs,
Sure the Holy Church has sons
Who have hearts as big as bullocks’ hearts. ’Tis great
To see Murphy and M'Gee
Handing pigs in cheerfully,
When Bishop Doyle is sending round the plate.
CREEVE ROE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
W. Watson: You say “No country has ever
yet become great in the manufacturing line [simply by
manufacturing for home consumption.” Substitute
“world” for “country "and you say, just as logically,
that this world can never be worth anything in manufac-
tures unless it exports its goods to Mars and Venus. As
to your idea that “ we must not have too many factories
until the time when we are in a position to send our
manufactured articles into the markets of the world,”
that isn’t original. Long ago a woman told her son not
to go near the water till he could swim Nada : Some
good points, but death and burial poetry is a cheerless
thing. Couldn’t you do a cremation poem—something
beginning “Do not weep, friends, while I crackle?"
J.A.W. : “Tale of Love” rather trifling W.M. :
“Woman’s Question” one excellent verse, then tails
off... .H.H. : “ Wisdom for Wives” is calculated to make
any wife foolish... .Towrai: “Always" merely an assur-
ance that you will stick to your best girl, which, after
all, is only a matter between yourself and the girl
Ike: Not up. Cut out pars and send in with date of
publication and your name and address to the
Accountant, Bulletin office....H.A.Z.: “Dream" is
a terrible example of rush of verse to the head
Demos : Election poem not strong enough Neville G. :
Neither quite up to mark G.R.H. : “Obverse
and Reverse ” is not good verse, and ideas
not sufficientiy diverse but rather the converse....
Patrick :No brightness about your pars A.E.C. :
They show a decided gift, but careful instruction would
be required Romulus: Best book for the purpose is
“The History of India,” by James Mill D. 0.: No;
we .do not advise you to persevere Right-O. : The
word should have the English plural (ignoramuses)
because it is not a Latin noun. It is a verbal first person-
plural, meaning “we do not know.” Belle Hamilton :
Fairly well told, but somewhat trite and conventional.
W.B.T.: Answered, 8., 3/12/’O3 Dot: Sorry we
can’t use it. Pretty, but rather flimsy Lieut. Y.: Cer-
tainly, if accepted; but your items haven’t quite “go”
enough Ciro : The Melba-Crossley controversy is off—
dead—defunct—buried—an complete corpse...
T. Dwyer (Melb.) : Letter (enclosing three stamps) cost
2d. for short postage McL. (Vic.): You enclosed a
Id. stamp in an insufficiently stamped letter, which cost us .
2d Townie: Your cocky-boss doesn’t hang together.
After knock-off there was time to read five chapters
of the Bible, and have supper and a yarn, before
9 o’clock. Afraid you don’t know the cocky
at harvesting G. Fitz: Not quite up
G. Harris: Leaden-footed style W.F.: Not with-
out having seen it Berber: “Horribly stuffed with
epithets of war !” M.J.B. : Too reminiscent of Edmund
Yates’s “ Waiting Race.” Ben. W.: Ineffective finish
spoils it.. ..Steyne :No recollection of it E.J.: Ill-
reasoned and weakly worded Rataplan : The first
thing to do is to find if your name is on the roll. Many
have been omitted Suva : Could not possibly be used
in that form Ishmael: Has an unsatisfactory kind of
smartness about it Epacris : You haven’t the para-
graphic touch, but the two longer sketches are better.
Pictures no good Jack Bull: You appear to have no
gift that way Kiddy : There was no “ presumption ”
in submitting such fairly good verse. Sorry not quite
good enough Marston: You say nothing with great
eloquence Timon: Savors too much of Byron Alex.
Law: Has numerous literary faults 0.8. J.: Some spirit
in it, but otherwise indifferent work Ritsun : Too
long and ramblesome J.A.L. : “Lonely Glen” too
melodramatic John M. : Not quality enough
Radium: Only when accepted T.B. : Very flat and
feeble....Gu liver : It will be duly returned A.W.A. :
About four times too long for B Effie M. : Pretty, but
thin and conventional G.W. (M.L.): Just like 1000
other Maori yarns Hereward: Drags too much towards
the finish Calmuck : Very dull and dreary —Meerlieu :
Rejected—after a quantity of hesitation M.A.T. :
“ Wastebox” very hopeless “potary.” A.C.E.: “False
Friends ” rather commonplace idea, and has some weak
spots in metre Barocco: Don’t enthuse much over
any of them. Terribly hard to decipher J.T.S.:
“ A.D. 1903 ” well meant, but heavy Osterley : “ Melb-
Stock Exchange” declined F.L.T. : Sydney’s new
daily, so far as we know, is coming out on the 190th day
of June, in the year x Robt. V. : Doesn’t quite hit us.
H.G.D. : Moderate merit only. Don’t recollect the
other H.A.Z. : Interesting in its way, but too prosy
for Bulletin. Not over 3000 words A.K. : Too
illegible James L.: You’re “ always composing them,”
are you? Better drop such a bad habit L.McD. :
Haven’t quality enough H.K. : Verses have some
merit, though they are rather mechanical J.O.T. :
Sorry not good enough G.H. : “Fitting On" is
artificial and overdone Robt. C. : Horse-verse is so
common that we require it to be an easy winner. Yours
barely runs into a “place.” Salmo : Breezy, but
rather trite in theme D.W. : Dull: r.-atmentof a hoary
subject Dan O. : See “Answers to Correspondents,”
8., 12/11/’03.. ..Athom (or something like that) : The vile
scribble damns it at once Tom W. : Too rough and
clumsy Bard: Well, you’re not !... .Ben jie : Don’t
remember it.. ..J.G. : Verse contains many horrors, in-
cluding attempt to rhyme “comes” with “ tongues.”
Rifle Smoke : Unsuitable Tarboy: Glad you are stick
ing to the comedy vein. There are too many tragic
writers already. Besides, though you write good jokes,
you would probably write very poor horrors... .Oyril K. :
“Girlie Mine” just ordinary Dikinson : Verses hardly
up. MS. being inquired for Eliz. L.L. : Not in Bulle-
tin vein. Would make a respectable hymn W.F. :
“ Woman’s Hand” doesn’t reach your usual high mark...
Jumbo: Nothing promising among them... .R.R.L. :
“ To The BuLLETiN-makers ” is very joggety-jog kind of
verse TeAroa: “ Mocking Devils ” don’t mock worth.
twopence. If we were a mocking devil and couldn’t
mock better than that we would give it up....T.0. t
T.C. : “Eros” a wild address to some female or other,
and passion has got the metre down and chewed it....
G.M.S.: “Our Girls” a heartrending production
Ishmael: Cordially sympathise... .A. : “ Randshark and!
Boer”notup to your usual level... .Pattle-Izett: Very
nearly gets there.. ..The Prooshan : “We need a policy
that kills multi-millionairism.” Quite so. By the way,
Mulhall (British statistician and Freetrader) estimates
that in the United Kingdom “80 per cent, of the total
wealth is held by Ik- per cent, of the total population,”
and says “ the sufferings of the indigent classes of our
large towns are greater than ever before.” Evidently the
British method isn’t the way to kill multi-millionairism
Thirty-nine: Can’t acknowledge pars. ; ’twould take 39
cols. Your second batch not up to the mark Bon 0. J. j
The goat is too obvious almost from the start Zizi:
None of ’em good enough Alexis :It would have been
rejected even if it had not been too long—P.C.C.: We
accept your assurance, but the story was hardly up to the
mark in anycase R.T.: Only fit for W.P.B Sandy:
Not by any means “ trash," but too long-drawn for us.
Try Sydney Maid 0.T.D.: Fairly well-written, though
somewhat conventional in tone Te Aroa : The “ idea
among the ancients that borrowing entailed a species of
servitude” wasn’t curious; it was just hard, solid
truth. It is just hard, solid truth to-day a 150....
A. (Kingston): Nearly all out of date or unsuitable.
Jumbo: Most too local and all too wordy..
Bandar: Apparently we did not receive the others. This
one is not quite good enough.... W.H.E.: Not up to mark.
Will be forwarded on receipt of postage The Baron:
Good stuff, not well put together....F.V.: Only when
asked to do so Warlock : “ Our opinion of its merits ”
is that it hasn’t any! Barty : There’s nothing in it to
found a decisive opinion upon ; but it’s certainly not
absolutely bad F.N.C. : See B. 26/11/’O3 Tyro:
Promises well if your age is as stated W.N. (Vic.):
Certainly not Jeanie :We cannot “ place” the origin
of the name Joyce. It is an old English “ Christian ”
name, and may, like many other such, have casually be-
come a family name Toreador : A not very successful
attempt to make a poem out of mere phrases W.8.C.:
Hardly well enough put together Scarab: No; the
Oarolinas were named after Charles 11. of England;
the Caroline Islands after Charles V. of Spain....
T.D. : Cannot say that it shows much promise....
F. H. SCUFFS, winner of the Austral Whed
Race, 1903.
Photo, by Barroni & Co. , Melbourne.
Banera : It was a darned shame to let youngsters do that
sort of work W.F.H. : A paragraph that “doesn’t
offend anybody” is most often a poor paragraph
H.N.H. : Ideas but slight variants on ones already used.
Narine: (1) Again, The Bulletin isn’t opposed to
the carrying out of public works. It is only opposed to
carrying them out with borrowed money. (2) The
Commonwealth isn’t restricted to taxation through the
Customs. It can levy a land tax and use it all. (3) The
liombala site, even if it is largely private lands, could be
got cheaply. It would be the expenditure of the public
money that would make the area valuable. And, any-
how, there is more public land around Bombala than in
almost any other site so far mentioned. Also, as The
Bulletin has pointed out a hundred times, the money can
be provided by the adoption of the Canadian banking
system. Considering how often The Bulletin has ex-
plained how the money to construct a Federal capital and
acquire a Federal territory can be obtained without
borrowing, you are a very disheartening correspon-
dent J.J.G. : A long way below publication level,.
CarIW.J. : “ Requiescat in Pace” too painful to be
talked about R.H.MacP. : Basketed.. . .D.B. : “Part-
ing" and “ Bonnie Scotland” both rather off our beat
F.H.B. : “ Laughing Eyes ” doesn’t quite reach the mark.
E. : “When Shearers Come ” doesn’t strike any new
note or new ideas Brownie : “ Ruby’s Hair ” is a good
subject badly handled.. ..Gadfly : Ditto... .Geo. L. :
Ditto.... Jay : Just ordinary (very ordinary) love verses.
John C. : “ Tale that is Told ” isn’t about anything in
particular. Only a bard of the most violent description
is allowed to write about nothing in particular D.T.D.:
Impossible to remember now what vour par. was about.
... ..Unsuitable : J.F.D., W.K., F.E.P.W., Kai hai, E.S.F.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Brown : Not up to the mark Jack 0.: Same to you.
.... J.M. : Heaven only knows what you are driving at....
J.R.T. : Picture of two repulsive women, with bad
joke attached C.A.W. : Not suitable M.B. : Bill
Lyne joke rather p00r..... W.O’B. : One may do as sug-
gestion. Most of them quite ordinary, and cat on chim-
ney not original Cockney Bill : Only the old Mrs.
.Partington idea over again A.O. : Thanks for sugges-
tion A.W.E. : Style too rough and perspective too
'Chinese H.B. : None ol them quite reach the mark.
Gags mostly venerable H.W. : Advertising joke old
and drawing only medium....O.J.L., Esq. (W.A.): The
jokes of a man who calls himself “ Esq.” are seldom any
good C.J.W. : “ P.D.A.” picture hopeless W.F. :
Too thrilling for a moral paper like this W.J.W. : Not
much in suggestions J.H. : Drawings far too crude
ifor reproduction ; gags also not up to the mark
R.11.P. : Unsuitable.


v S "—iff v ~>. 10 y If
sjfi*
c |-rs n c ~
^ v vS
/j l aDY' o o^
if* sUZW l st
For the-
y<? u n(j
WCrLTi'f •
A Soota&A!^'
*- p f> P
H£ reS
THE SURRAS QooS/f-
A Mis Lf'ST
S«|k ONE"
¥>
.c/\e,'s
A
I
r <<o
/ —"“ _ oM
'N $ Trilj CfRT °
JjAJ NO pLIT |C/ ' 1 ' #
S<a ni pFK cyt^ccyf*
uM\ ) \^ 1 a J
pi?
ZiJT
mK^/fm
X/ «
(X ■
AM Jjjlj
/4 ?KA SEtyo«TSAT
-r^A
m
C'lQk/j
\^o|Kl» gfl &
7?/?AW ED By Hop's VN'b&RSTuVVy
COMPLIMENTS OF THE SEASON.


[ The brewers have determined to main,
tain the rise in the price of beer, and manv
free lunch. reS ° lvod to m °dify tfaeir.
Intelligent Elector.— “ Bli' mo if that
ain't a mug o* a scorin board. Bhnvcd
if I can see Trumpers name any-
k where''
Thb Barmaid . _ ..<> t
ofTX?" A P u Qc n.
and is onJy C U $ Q J • made s
Mr. Palmer, the president of tho Citi-
zens Reform League, stood against tbe sit-
ting protectionist member for Moira and
got a sound drubbing
v The Democratic Elector.—“ That b the
first chance 1 vo had of getting a fair
lick at him.’'
Knox, of Kooyong, pleaded with tho
ladies for votes because ho was tho man
who strove mightily to bavo parliament-
ary sittings opened with prayer. Although
i he opposed womanhood sutl'ragc. a very
i largo female vote was cast in hjs favor
THE EFFICACY OF PRAYER.
The pious candidate puts up a prayer
and brings down a shower.
THE MYSTERIOUS BOX TRICK.
The celebrated necromaneejr
vociferously announced for wee
conspicuously
placed, opens tbe box.
HUHk\ >7 » »- ■ ;.v
fenwitt>. ff ee j? yb Cockshy XWid,
4 j/o ur <ajl To cork
Jn jhese. * "
IN DEEP POLITICAL WATERS.


a. SAUNDERS for CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver
WATCH, Full Jewelled, |-plate,
30s, £2, £2 10s, £4, £4 10s ; Solid Gold,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO 10s, £l5, £2O.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, and 6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Long Gold MUEE CHAINS in
Every Style and Pattern Made,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £slos,
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
15ct. Gold, Opal, Half-hoop BEACELET, IS Opals, £l2! 10s; with
Diamonds, £l5; Larger Diamonds, £2O ; 9ct. Gold, 11 Opals, £4.
A SAUNDERS.
A. SATJNDEKS.
1 'W'.t Gold, Diamond Cluster and Pearls, to ;
Diamond and Rubies, £3los.
A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 3-bar BROOCH, with Double-cut
Diamond Centre, £2 10s ; Larger Diamonds,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two HeartAmeayßtaud Love Kn
A SAUNDERS.
Gold Floral Forget Me Not BROOCH, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-bar Opal and 4 Diamond BROOCH,
£2los. Very Effective.
A. SAUNDERS. „
Very Choice Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined JEWEL CASE,
22s 6d ; Other Styles, 17s Gd, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Silver-mounted, Polished Crocodile Skin
PURSE, 30s ; Other Styles, 10s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
In Morocco, same mounts, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted SHOE DIET and HOOK, in Silk-
lined Case, 7s 6d ; Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN, CHAIN,
and Photo. CHARM,
8s 6d. To hold Midget
Photos.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl Star
PENDANT or BROOCH,
Very Neat, £3.
1
9ct. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell, Chased, 12s
6d ; 15ct. Gold, 22s 6d.
9ct. Gold LINKS, 12s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield LINKS,
22s 6d ;
15ot. Gold, £2;
Solid Silver, 4s 6d.
.. m
Mi
A. SAUNDEKS.
Handsome Gilt Bedroom CLOCK> Splmxdid
Timekeepers, 15s; Other Styles, os ba,
10s 6d, 20s, 255.
■1 r\ Ir\ pure Silver, large size, HAIR BRUSH, 1 |
10/6 extra long hand-drawn bristles, beanti- 1
fnllv phased and embossed, 10s od.
Other stffi 15s, 20s, 255, 80s. Post free.
8/6
ħ
8/6
Ladies’ Pure Silver-mounted Morocco Leather PURSE and CARD
CASE combined, 8s 6d ; other styles, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
15s, 20s, to £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS, all the Latest Styles and Fashions,
Prices According to Width, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ; 15ct. Gold,
£3, £4, £5, £6, £7.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, 8 Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
with Safety Chain, £5 ; Diamond and 2 Rubies, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted GLOYE STRETCHER, SHOE HOOK,
GLOVE HOOK, and SHOE LIFT, in Nice Leather Roll, 255.
: ii;w
r>«j6soATlifflEB3W
Ff?ID A
- 1 -''l--;
BBKHHII
m-'CKiJzZv-'
isailil
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s WALLET and POCKETBOOK, All Improvements,
Silver-mounted, as above, 12s 6d ;
Without Shield, 10s 6d.
Initials Nicely Chased, Is Extra.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s.
Lord Watch
BetweehMe
Tree
1
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Heart
CHARM.
Extra Large, 8s 6d ;
Smaller, 4s 6d, 5s 6d.
6s 6d.
18ct. Gold Buttercup Bure
Diamond BING,
£B, £4, £5.
Gent.’s 9ot. Gold
Amethyst BING, 25s ;
15ct. Solid Gold, £2, £2los.
Plain Signet RINGS,
9ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, 30s, 35s ;
18ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
18ct. Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and Rubies,
or Sapphires, £3los, £4,
£4los; 5 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bushman’s and Miner’s Pocket Compass,
a Boon to Tourists, 10s 6d j Similar,
2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 12s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Polished Crocodile Leather
CIGARETTE CASE, Pure Silver
Mounts, 17s 6d; Other Styles, 5s
6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BOOT,
CHAIN, and PIN,
6s 6d.
Metal Pin, 5s 6d.
Latest Fashion Pearl, Red, or
Blue Stone Set PHOTO. PEN-
DANTS, 15s 6d, 17s 6d ; Extra
Large, 20s ; Other Styles, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s, 255.
15ct. Gold HEART.
Double-out Diamond,
305,405;
Ruby or SappMre, 255.
18ct. Gold 5 Opal
RING, £2 10s ;
Size Larger, £3 10s
15ct. Gold, Diamond
and 2 Rubies l or Sap-
phires, £2 10s ; 3 Dia-
monds, £3.
wm
18ct. Gold Half-hoop.
5 Double-cut Diamond
RING, £5 ; Larger Dia-
monds, £6, £<* 10s, £B,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
Nickel
20s.
/
es
J
Silyer,
355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Reliable Knockabout WATCHES, 12s 6d, 15s>
17s 6d, 20s, 255, 27s 6d, 30s ; Fnst-dass Silver
Hunter English Lever, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4los, £5,
£6 ; Gold, £8 10s to £5O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Friendship Gold Motto BROOCH, 20s ; 15ct.
Gold, 35s ; 18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold CHAINS, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 los, £4,
£4 10s, £5 : 15ct. Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Solid Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
■ Ho
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BRACELET, Pearls, 3 Sapphires, and 2 Diamonds,
£l2 10s. Very Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold 2-bar Pearl-set Buckle BROOCH, 3os.
3
a
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Crescent and Spray Pearl BROOCH,
£5 10s. Very Neat and Attractive.
m
A. SAUNDERS. ,
2-bar Eloral BROOCH, with Diamond and
Blue or Bed Stones, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Forget-me-not Fk"-d Design Heal t and Beil
Gold Brooch, 12s (id
f s
Band RING with
Name, Pet. Sol d Gold.
12' (Id, 15s; loot. Gold
20s, 25s ; 18st. Gold
25s 3's £2
ISct. Gold Buckle. Dia-
mond and 2 Rubies, or
Sapphires £2 10s ;
3 Diamonds, £4.
Hand -made WEUiHNG RINGS and KEEPERS,
Solid Gold. 7s (id, 10s (id each ;loct. Gold, 15s .Extra
Heavy,‘2ss; 183 t. Gold, 2)s; Extra Heavy, 80s, 355,
40s £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS,
Sydney’s Leading jeweller & or>tiola,n,
809, 811. 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-STREET, OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION, SYDNE .


Mr. CHAS. A. LAWRENCE, Montevideo,
Minn, writes:
“ I had A HARD COUGH that resisted the remedies of
our physicians. My brother, a druggist, seeing that I
was fast drifting into consumption, recommended Javne’s
Expectorant, and I feel sure that IT SAVED ME PROM
AN EARLY GRAVE.” *
For a present? The selection of a Xmas
present is not always a simple matter: utility and
suitability do not always go together. Many gifts are
mere ornaments, and often not much at that. Without
doubt a neat camera outfit is an ideal present, and
combines at once pleasure, usefulness, and instruction ;
not merely that of an evanescent nature, but supplies a
lasting and interesting pastime. The establishment of
Messrs. Harrington and Co. Ltd., 66 King-street, is a
dep6t for the supply of cameras and photographic
materials of every conceivable kind, and in the matter of
cameras they have a huge stock to select from ; the
prices range from a few shillings to many pounds. The
cameras and outfits are so arranged that no previous
knowledge is required, complete and simple instructions
are suppled with every camera. Harrington’s illustrated
catalogue is free for the asking.*
Curious case of public forgiveness from
Windsor Gazette (N.S.W.):
AS I am innocent of any wrong to Mrs. , of
Riverstone, I freely forgive the malice which
prompted her action last week. My enemies are safe
in God’s hands.
Nov. 3,1903. JANE .
The last sentence suggests a satisfying conviction
that a Higher Power will fall on Mrs. and
deal it out to her more thoroughly than the
advertiser could hope to do.
W. N. Willis, M.L.A., as a land agent
needs no black-tracker to guide him through the
devious paths of the Land Acts. He fights all
his cases, and the harder the task the better he
likes it, and wins all the time. 21 Bligh-street.*
REFORM WITHOUT REVOLUTION. -
The great and particular merit of Hunyadi Janos
is that it relieves without discomfort, in other
words, it effects. reform without revolution. This
is because it is the best and safest natural
aperient.*
MAGIC.
In ancient days the remarkable curative properties of a medicine which possessed the power to cure
complaints so, seemingly, different in their origin as
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anaemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
would have been regarded as magical, but Magic is dead and Science reigns supreme. No effect is
now allowed to be attributed to a supernatural cause. We demand in each case a scientific explana-
tion, definite, clear, and comprehensive. In order that it may be fully understood why
Warner’s Safe Cure
cures, as it does, all of the above-mentioned disorders completely and permanently, it must be realised
that each of them is but the manifestation of a diseased or inactive condition of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER
If these vital organs are working freely and perfectly, none of the disorders in the list given can
afflict us. This important fact will be fully realised by reading the following description of the won-
derful functions performed by the kidneys and liver.
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce!
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion of
the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test ,to make as to the’condition
of the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass and
let it stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment/’or if
particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy, and no time must
be lost in adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more
painful illness will result.
The Liver.— ln the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood,
converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood'
gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into
urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived’their
life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion
Biliousness, Anaemia, Sick Headache and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected, and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys
and Liver, was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure. It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that it was necessary
to find a, curative agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver these
organs being so immediately associated in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material and
after many disappointments, the medicine which possessed the required action in the fullest
degree was at length discovered. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys
and liver, and, by restoring their activity, these vital organs are enabled to rid the body through
the natural channels, of the urinary and biliary poisons, the presence of which in the system are the
cause of Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders Ansemia
Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles, and General
Debility. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all these disorders simply by removing the cause of the disorder
This is the reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent cures. [24
A GOLD or SILVER WATCH FREE!
m
mu
\
Mi
SEND NO MONEY.
1X713 hereby undertake to give one of our Famous
* • Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
D**T IWI»*S T**S c****E
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if
you have won the Watch. We are making this offer
solely with the object of introducing and advertising
our goods. Forward your letter to our address :
I GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL COMPANY, Pitt St., Sydney.
Or BOX 865,
G.P.O.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“ E.E.” : The expert ring-finder dived his hand
to the footpath a yard or two in front of me, and picked
up the ring that wasn’t there. I was walking at a smart
“ bat,” and my knees—they are bony—came into violent
collision with his ribs, fairly taking his wind away. He
stood up as straight as his bruised wind-bag would allow
him, apologised humbly, and showed me an imitation
diamond ring, which “he had just picked up.” By way
of encouragement he ventured—“ Passable find?” His
eyes sparkled as he offered the trinket for sale. I
walked on smartly. He was not to be shaken off, so I
had the pleasure of his company for 100 yards or so,
whilst he explained that as a flash ring was of no use to
him, he would chance its being a genuine stone, and let
me have it for 7s. 6d. “ How’th bithnith ?” I queried,
growing tired of his company. The ring-finder’s jaws
dropped, and taking a look at my face —I pride myself on
the length of my nose—concluded I was a Jew, spat
vigorously, and turned away. You can always close a
cronk jewellery bargain by talking as if you don’t eat
ham. No sane man would try to take down one of the
Chosen People with a fake trinket.
* » * *
A novel case chronicled in M.L. disclosed a
queer state of the law. A native in a good official position
gave a publican a cheque, which was dishonored, and
latter sought to recover. The S. M., who must have been
burrowing into forgotten legal ruts in his spare time,
pointed out. that a bill given bv a Maori must have
attached to it a translation in Maori, and as a cheque was
defined as a bill of exchange, and it wasn’t translated, the
plaintiff couldn’t get judgment. Yet that native speaks
English thoroughly, and, were translations of all his paper
transactions demanded, he would feel greatly insulted.
* * * *
Letter received by a Maoriland agent, who is
still wondering what his client was driving at :—
“ Dear Sir, the pultry farem that i thaught it wass not
a pooer man or middidler far welser with his £250 and
payaind £52 for leesid 40 pundons a aker from the right
on I was gon to let it so i sudead thank that i wood have
a good lot of mannoy for 2 pu crch for a haclerlack me it
as no monny I would to lett the pless and buht it whad
the want it woould cost £3 or les might be less it wouhed
not sut a beherres ox 50 yeaers lack me that house a large
orcherd 900 of that them sold 12 aces padick Jest lettlee
whele ago £2O no hoseses was on the land and a hoses of
six rooms 2 acers—2 hacers he has got best 2 aoers for
frute I hold £l6O to pay on 2 years from nixt 2 munts I
mey give you thes pless to sell I seec in alO day or so I
am plest a that wenet tlablose I see a house you hafe in
fitxheebert steet £325—1 have a looak at in a fue dayes I
might bay but the stick 4 the sane palmerson you will
git a geat yeat fall yuoeers teuallhilh, Samule W .
Adess S.W. oschast.”
* * • *
A strange story of a cash-register. The appli-
ance indicated £27, but when the cash in the till-drawer
was counted up it was only £22. The apparently respon-
sible clerk was dismissed. On the following day the shop
cat was found climbing on the machine. It was hanging
on to the most expensive end of the keyboard, and every
time it made a fresh struggle to get up it registered
10s. 6d.
* * » *
“Angowrie”: The unreasoning, unpatriotic
prejudice of the people of some parts of Australia against
the products of their own country, and particularly of
their own district, has become proverbial, and greatly
retards manufacturing progress. On the Clarence River
several makers are turning out an unsurpassed quality of
millet brooms on a small scale ; but they and the store-
keepers selling for them find great difficulty in disposing
of the goods. One large storekeeper advised his broom-
maker not to label his brooms. The maker rather prided
himself upon the superiority of his wares and his elaborate
labels, which he hoped would advertise him and extend
his trade, and it was very much against his will that he
acted on the storekeeper’s advice. The unlabelled brooms
sold readily, and the purchasers were unanimous in
declaring their great superiority as compared with
“ local rubbish.”
* * * *
“Potchie”: Some time ago a White Cliffs
gouger dug out a unique and beautiful specimen. He
was advised to show it to some British or Australian
buyers, because it was such an extraordinary speci-
men. He declined. Said that the “Too plue” push
would give him a fair deal. He shewed his find to his
foreign friend, who valued it at £4O. The buyer paid
£4O for the specimen ; went to Europe with his wife and
family for a trip, had a good time, returned to White
Cliffs, and then calmly announced that he had cleared
something over £lOOO and the trip out of the deal. The
gouger can and does co-operate for cheap beer ; but he
will not co-operate so as to control the disposal of opal.
The united gougers could pretty well control the world’s
market. The disunited gouger lives in a bag humpy and
doesn’t control anything—not even his dog
* * * *
“Bobrid ” : The run on “fertilisers” for wheat-
crops this season is enormous, and the supply is not
equal to the demand. The writer, however, ventures the
prediction that there’ll be a slump in the fertiliser biz.
before long. The usual fertiliser gives nothing to the
soil ; its action is entirely on the grain, in rushing it up
quickly and giving it a “good start,” and this means a
further drain on the soil, “running it out” even quicker
than before. The land will become in time impoverished,
and the fertiliser will fail. It’s just like a man on a
burst taking a pick-me-up to give him a chance to go on
a further burst —it doesn’t minimise in the least the
effects of the spree. The only fertiliser is one that gives
back to the soil what the wheat-crop takes from it—not
sand and a stimulant.
* * * *
A. E. Morgana, who was Westralian Premier
for 15 hours or so, back in the company-promoting days,
has an interesting curiosity—a leather bag with several
small punctures in it, on which hangs a tale. The man
who made the holes used to own a mine, which wasn’t
quite so good a mine as he wanted some prospective
buyers to think. All the old mine-salting tricks had been
played out, including the trick of shooting small gold
slugs out of a gun into loose ore, and the other
trick of letting gold-dust fall out of the finger-
nails into the samples as they were broken.
“ No,” said this man with the mine to sell—
“ No, I don’t want to go into the workings with
you. Go yourself; take your own men ; break out your
own samples, seal them, and if it doesn’t come up to
what I say, then don’t buy.” So the samples were broken
and the bags sealed —and then the honest mine-owner
jumped at his chance to pump in some chloride of gold
with a hypodermic syringe through the leather. The
punctures are still there to tell the tale.
* * * *
To read the statistics of Victoria’s swindling
irrigation and water trusts, as set forth in the Municipal
Year Book, is enough to make one’s gorge rise. The
lovely Rodney Trust got £2J2,699 of public money, owed
£52,726 of accumulated interest; passed on the whole of
the interest and £147,699 of its debt. In the 13 years it
did business before the repudiation it paid just £l6Ol
15s. 3d. in redemption. And to-day, after all these thou-
sands have been spent on improving its lands, Rodney
shire has the gall to value itself at barely ss. per acre, and
then strike a shilling rate thereon. Tragowel Plains Trust,
in Gordon and Castle Donnington shires, which gathers
in the rich flat lands between Kerang and the Murray,
paid a whole £443 15s. Bd. off its indebtedness before it
began to default. It borrowed £158,418, accumulated
£80,141 of interest, then shuffled out of all its interest
and £123,418 of its debt. To-day it values its land at an
average of Is. 3d. an acre and strikes, one shire a
shilling, the other a ninepenny rate thereon. Numurkah
borrowed £19,757 for its waterworks and finally shuffled
out of £6,076 of capital debt and £835 interest. It now
values itself at 3s. 7d. per acre on an average and strikes
the usual shilling rate. That is the “ poor farmer” side
of the case. The city worker’s side is shown by the case
of Footscray which strikes a rate of 2s. 6d. in the £, and
Brunswick, which strikes a 2s. 4d. rate. The house the
writer occupies is rated at £32 a year, and the rent is 16s. a
week. And on top of all this the Footscray and Bruns-
wick toilers—who finally pay the rates, Whether they own
their houses or not—are sweated to find the muni ipal
subsidy for these blessed shires. And these insolent
robbers have the cheek to talk of Trades Hall domination
and the need for retrenchment!
* * * *
Reply received by a N.9.W. Government
Department from a man who had received notice to
register his firm under the new Act: “Referring to
registration, I am agent for nothing whatever, or have no
business either, nor never was, so the notice is in no way
useful to me, so I return it with thanks.”
* * * #
“ Victim ” writes: Time some steps were taken
to reform one grave abuse rampant in the Victorian civil
service. I know of at least 20 civil servants who do a
roaring business as money-lenders. Needless to say they
are not seven or eight shillings a day “ wages ” men, but
men with good salaries. Working by means of dummies,
they advance the orthodox fiver for a pound a month
interest. Receipts are always made out (when given at
all) “ received from Mr. Blank on behalf of Mr. Dummy,”
and so even the victim can’t squeak. They trade largely
with the needy in their own branch, and practically own
the impecunious in the Board of Shirks. Has anything
been heard of Tommy Bent’s money-lending scheme
lately?
* * • *
“ K.” : Natural wild beer—what dreams of bliss
those words conjure up 1 Maoriland, where the Prohibition-
ist is running amok, has beer oozing out of the very trees.
The matai tree has a sap which is much relished in some
of the bush districts, and is called “matai beer.” Also
people drink the sap of the rimu tree, and it is said to
taste like a first cousin of the real thing. If all the pubs,
and breweries in Maoriland were closed, there would be
bush tours every week-end organised by Cook. The
only danger is that some of the tourists would take to
the woods for good.
“ Elmore ” : Are there any honest people
in Victoria now ? I went to a cemetery, t’other
day, to see the last of a friend who had crossed
the Great Divide. Noted, to my astonishment,
that all the railed graves had rows of barbed wire
on them, while the gates opening into the little
enclosures were securely padlocked. Also, on
several graves, wreaths of artificial forget-me-nots
and such like were chained to the tombstones. I
believe, since Victoria was demoralised by the
bank bursts, the people would even steal the
epitaph from the pious grocer’s monument if they
could get it off. The ghoul in charge told me
that the barbed wire was quite useless unless the
flowers were chained down, owing to people
coming with telescopic fishing rods in their
pockets, and fishing for the vegetables.
“Puebla,” from Wellington, M.L. :
Maoriland is now in the throes of the Tourist Craze, and
if things go on as they are Maorilanders bid fair to be a
nation of boarding-house keepers. No crawl is too large
for the almighty tourist. For the convenience of Rotorua
tourists passing through Auckland, the local post-office
is to be kept open till 6 p.m., as against 5 p.m. in other
parts of the State. Mere Maorilanders might benefit by
the change elsewhere. Of course the extra work entailed
on the post-ofHce officials is a detail. Again, in the new
and abortive Licensing Act, Premier Seddon inserted a
clause providing Government cocktails in no-license dis-
tricts for travelling English and American Johnnies,
while a fine of £2O was imposed on a Maorilander having
drink in his house. In the House of Reps, many mem-
bers are beginning to grumble at the waste of public
money on the tourist traffic when more important indus-
tries might well be started with the aid of a timely bonus.
Nobody seems to benefit by the tourists who do come,
except the co. which runs the 'Frisco mail boats. Even
if the traffic became a success (from the boarding-house
point of view), it would be a dismal failure from a
national standpoint. The country that relies on tourists
is pretty well damned. M.L. wants more factories, less
imports, and less patronising foreign Johnnies. When
the tourists come, let them find a manly breed of people
—not a nation of waiters, rushing around with a serviette
and saying “ Yessir.” The Lord never meant man to be
a waiter.
“ Westward-Ho ” writes from Durban,
S’Africa:
I had made three attempts to work my passage to
S’Africa from N.Q. but steamship companies have no soul,
so I had to part with thirteen guineas—most of my capital
—and sailed from Sydney in the Graochus. Said Gracchus
was a new cattle ship, and was hastily fitted up in Sydney
to carry two-legged carnivorous beasts. She had a
coolie crew, but the chief steward and second cook were
white. The weather got rougher all the time, and we
passed Albany at the rate of four knots against a nasty
sea. Seventy miles further, a leak was discovered. One
of the port dead-eyes got stove in by a floating log, and
there was a foot of water on the 'tween-decks. The
vessel was put about, and we steamed back to Albany as
fast as God would let us. Some of the passengers began
to console us by saying that the ship was unlucky. Al-
though new, she was for sale. She had had smallpox on
board, and a murder. Some cursed heavily and began to
look queer in the eyes. The fear of death, no less. But
there was no panic. I did not feel very uneasy myself,
as she did not seem to be settling and was going 15 knots
before the gale. lam not brave, but it is well to assume
a virtue if you have it not. I played my fiddle desper-
ately as a counter-irritant. We got to Albany all right,
and, after the leak was stopped, resumed our voyage.
We found Lourenco Marques to be no good. The
Portuguese put various obstacles in the way of overland
passengers to the Transvaal, and the town itself is hot
and squalid, rent and living very high, and no chance of
work. However, it is likely to be a much more important
place before long. We are now in Durban, and only two
or three out of the 45 who remained here are working,
and most of us have no money. Durban is an up-to-date
town, with a lot of unfinished buildings going up, but
the building trade is at a standstill, pending the settle-
ment of the labor question. They will probably import
Chinese, which will mean a boom for a time ; but, after
As things are, it would be madness for any mechanic, or
other person without money, to come here. I had good
reasons, or thought I had, for coming; but the outlook is
black, and the population is mostly black also.
“ Cheetah ” complains about old age pen-
sions :
Pity the sorrows of an Old Age Pension clerk ! There
are 380 old age pensioners on the list of our suburban
office, and two of us have to fix the “ old-agers ” up in
batches for two or three days fortnightly, besides our
ordinary routine work. Out of the total, 240 can’t write
—these we manage at the rate of 30 an hour. “Touch
the pen ! ” is all we say, and his or her mark is fixed in
a jiff—and the money paid over without any trouble,
especially to the old “militias,” who always stand at
attention awaiting their turn, and salute on retiring.
Some of the old women get garrulous, and wait to retail
their history of better days agone, hut we hurry them
along inexorably. They are bad, but only gnats in our
ointment to the men who can write. How we curse educa-
tion when the “ old-ager ” comes along who glories in his
1 ‘ fist,” asdisplayed in hieroglyphics on the pay-sheet. First,
he produces his voucher-book wrapped in a handsome nose-
rag. The unwrapping process is slow and shaky. Then he
hunts for his specs.—the fixing process is likewise tedious
and shaky. Then a careful selection of all the available
pens has to be made—the only one with a hair in its nib
is chosen. All effort on the part of the “ old-ager ”to
shift that hair between each letter of his name is in vain.
As he writes he rests his head on his arm, almost level
with the counter, and smudges his laborious masterpiece
with his sleeve. Then his money has to be carefully put
away; the specs, carefully wiped and recased; the
voucher-book re-wrapped in the useful nose-rag ; we have
to tell him where he put his stick—and off he ambles.
Then there is the man who can’t see, and won’t hear, and
has forgotten his name, or has come for the pension
which isn’t his. Again, I say, pity the sorrows of an
Old Age Pension pay-clerk 1
“Ku-Klux”: Bulletin (26/11/’O3) says
“it is pleasing to note that there is nob a single
lady mentioned in the Bible.” Well, she may
have been married, but there is one mentioned in
2nd John 1., 1.: “The elder unto the elect lady
and her children.” Am pleased to air my Biblical
knowledge.
“ Ciro ” : Kyabram’s recent mission to
Bacchus Marsh (Vic.) to open a branch failed
badly. One man planked down the -necessary
shilling and promised support, but no one could
be found to second the motion—“ That a branch
of &c., &c., be formed.” The identity of the
“ lone fisherman ” who favored the establishment
of a tail feather of the ’Pootra is not quite clear;
locally they are inclined to the belief that it was
Sammy Lancaster in disguise. The ’Pootra league
firsb started under the impression that there was
some way of paying debts without money ; of fill-
ing the Treasury without taxes, but merely by
shouting; of reducing the railway shortage with-
out _ increase of rates. It thought cursing the
engine would make it burn less coal, and that
Irvine’s basilisk expression was cash, and that a
strong man could make £1 contain 255. and a
cool, calm man could pay off the deficit by the
mere glare of his eye. And all these things fell
through.
THE BRIDGE—A KIND OF POEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the bridge that we built.
This is John Bull who lent us the money to pay for the
bridge that we built.
This is the interest we pay to John Bull who lent us the
money to pay for the bridge that we built.
This is the money that John Bull lent us to pay the inte-
rest we pay to John Bull who lent us the money
to pay for the bridge that we built.
This is the money that John Bull lent us to mend the
bridge and' to pay the interest on the money
John Bull lent us to pay the interest due to John
Bull who lent us the money to pay for the bridge
that we built.
And this is the flood that swept away the bridge but left
the debts with interest still owing to John Bull
on the moneys he lent us to mend the bridge and
to pay the interest on the money John Bull lent
us to pay the interest we pay to John Bull who
lent us the money to pay for the bridge that we
built.
M.L.
KATI-KATL.


PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R.-CENNERT, 89C Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
[ennon's Hotel, Brisbane,
Has been Re-Furnished throughout and will be
conducted as a FIRST-CLASS HOUSE. Its
central position recommends it to Commercial
Men and Families. Trams pass the door—a penny
pection to any part of the City.
S. M. COLLINS, Proprietor.
SPECTACLES
ĥ
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, t.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURIMC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to —
H. A* BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 fleorge-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
ħ
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
h
C 3-0 “JC-O THT fr-tT-T
I(iO[,ANIi for Pretty. Stum pa, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 E3izabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO. :
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ G.H." Where’s George Pile’s dog got
to?
The neiy Federal House will have no
Solomon. The old one had two.
The most painful thing about women’s
meetings is the sort of man who attends them.
South African saying : “ The Uitlanders
fought for their grievances, and they got them.”
The present N.S.W. Government is said
to have appointed nearly 2000 J’s.P. during its
short career.
During the last session of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment the Labor party’s policy might be defined
as support in return for transgressions.
Thinning out. In 1901 George Reid’s
majority was 4052. In 1903, with 4000 more votes
polled, it was 3739. From scoring 3 to Ihe has
got down to 2 to 1.
“Yes, gentlemen,” said the candidate,
fervidly, “I’ll go a step further.” He did,
and fell from the platform among the reporters
beneath, amid great enthusiasm.
Victorian M.’sP. regard the health of
Shiels the Raven as a sort of political barometer.
When Shiels falls sick a change of Ministry is
coming. Shiels hasn’t been very well lately.
“Hitherto the Protestant Church has
claimed to be the ‘Bride of Christ.’ If Dill-
Macky and his crew have their way she will stand
brazen-faced before the world as the Kept-Woman
of Capital.”— Arthur Griffith, at Wellington.
The two newest suggestions for a name
for the Australian capital are Whitewasliington
and Loandon. Something might also be said for
St. Borrowsburg. Or the capital might be fixed
at Broken Hill and the name changed to Broken-
Up.
“Jack” Want’s favorite and—elegant
term for the Australian Parliament is “monkey-
show." He also called the Federal Referendum
a monkey-show. In fact, that word seems to be
about the limit of his eloquence nowadays. What
is a monkey-show ?
George Reid says that it is positively in-
decent for B. R. Wise, M.L.0., to interfere in
the Federal elections against Reidism. What
about Jack Want, M.L.C.—the foolish old
trimmer with the deceptive iron jaw—who
barracked for Reidism ?
Curtailment of the Gov.-General’s allow-
ance recalls the fact that the first attempt to
reduce an Australian Governor’s salary was made
by N.S.W. Legislative Council, elected under the
Constitution Act of 1842, in Gipps’ time. The
late Richard Windeyer introduced a Bill reducing
the salary of future Governors from £5OOO to
£4OOO. The Bill passed, but was refused the
Royal assent —in fact, the ‘ * Crown ” is said to
have been not only hostile, but also very angry
over the matter.
Those violent retrenchers, Bent and
Irvine, have managed to increase the number of
employees on the Victorian railways by
372 —and these were the railways whioh
they said were disgracefully over-
manned when they took office. The
a 11 a qo
employees numbered 11,482 in
1902, and 11,854 in 1903. The
Bent-Irvine has reduced the
permanent staff by 115 (from
9883 to 9708) by sacking ex- J
perienced men who knew
their work. And it has
increased the temporary
staff by 487 (from 1599 to
2080) by finding billets for
Bent’s and other people’s
constituents, for politicians’
wastrel relatives who have
to be temporary because
they oan’t pass the neces-
sary examinations, and for
miscellaneous weeds and
sundries. It is a great
Government!
The number of State
electorates under the new
Victorian redistribution
scheme with mining interests
at one end and farming in-
terests at the other attracts atten-
tion. In some cases it looks as though the radical
mining vote had been thrown into a dull farming
district in order to make it ineffective. Eagle-
hawk, Bairnsdale, Daylesford, Korong, Ovens,
and Waranga are cases in point. Anyhow, the
mixture ought to liven up Vic. provincial politics.
Touching the Electoral Boundaries Bill in
the Vic. Assembly—“Mr, Boyd moved that
Jika Jika be omitted with the view of inserting
the word ‘Northcote.’” Alas! the word “North-
cote” is going to be inserted in a good many
places throughout Australia.
The Irish bunch in last Federal Parlia-
ment is scattered—some, like M‘Millan, having
retired, and others, like Glassey, being rejected.
Hugh Mahon re-appears triumphant. The bunch
consisted of Mahon, Glassey, M‘Millan, M‘Cay,
Higgins, Kirwan, Glynn, and Harney, their
native towns being judiciously distributed over
the tight little island.
For some reason or other the influence of
the R.C. church bosses goes solidly behind the
Protestant Malcolm M’Eacharn. Even at the
recent election, when the Catholic, Dr. Maloney,
was Malcolm’s opponent, the influence of Holy
Church was behind M'Eacharn as usual.
The Labor party in N.S.W. Assembly is,
to put the case shortly, paralysed by cowardly,
easy-going leadership. James M‘Gowen is a
man who should dream away his life on the
sunny side of a haystack ; the leadership of a
party with a big battle to fight isn’t in his line.
The biggest recent effort of the Sup-press :
Trenwith, the night before the election, addressed
a huge, enthusiastic crowd of 8000 in Fitz-
geralds’ circus—the biggest building he could get;
and next morning both Melbourne news-papers
were too busy barracking for their own tinpot
gods to notice the circumstance.
Victoria got its first chanc3 last Wednes-
day to say what it thought of the ’Pootra Parlia-
ment ; and of nine State members who asked for
places in the Federal Parliament it enthusiasti-
cally flung out all but two. And those two —
Trenwith and Wilson—weren’t ’Pootras. No
fowl ever had its neck wrung more thoroughly.
Queensland State Treasurer Kidston is
sticking to his guns. A big deputation from his
own constituency of Rockhampton pursued him
for a little loan, and was told that Rockhampton,
like the rest, mu°t pay as it goes. The Q. press is
so astounded at getting an unsqueezable Treasurer
that it says anything is now liable to happen.
Sydney Evening News had the cheek to
announce that at Hay (N.S.W.) “an attempt
was made by some unscrupulous opponents of
Mr. Blackwood to introduce the sectarian ele-
ment.” Blackwood was the Freetrade candidate
—the representative of the party that ran in the
Dill Macky interest, and put up people like Wilks
to denounce Protection as a “ Popish conspiracy.”
Tinkering to the extent of £25,000 is con-
templated to the old ramshackle N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary building. The excuse is the old story
about the invaluable library attached to the insti-
tution. The yearly amount spent on renovations
and repairs to the huge Macquarie-street hovel is
generally five figures, and it is usually debited to
the anxiety about the books. Very little is said
about anybody’s fears lest the refreshment-room
should fall down.
It would be hard to beat the cynical
impudence of Melbourne Argus in openly telling
the Melbourne electors, the day before polling,
that “ they should not forget that previous to
Malcolm M'Eacharn’s voyage to Japan he had
generously left £2OO to relieve cases of hardship.”
In its anxiety to give Malcolm a lift, his friend the
Argus practically denounced him as an individual
who had paid £2OO for votes, and called his
generosity a bribe.
So far as can be ascertained, the Federal
electoral rolls were, on the whole, a trifle more
accurate than the State ones usually are. The
differences in N.S.W. lay in this fact: At a State
election the Sydney dailies don’t waste space on
the stodgy letters of the person who missed his
vote, and just drop his plaint in the basket. But
it was a question this time of bringing discredit
on the Australian Government, so men, women,
children, infants and dogs were allowed to fill
pages of space with the story of how they hadn’t
been enrolled.
OH THE MADDENING FIGHT FOR GUARDIANSHIP !
David Syme is understood to have spoken
firmly and freely to M'Culloch over the latter’s
Vic. Senate candidature. The Rich Landlord
addressed but two small meetings, and stuck a
brief advt. in the papers stating his views on
things in general, and then seems to have expected
the Age to do the rest, and the Age was naturally
annoyed. Dow likewise got a strong hint to go
and hustle round the country, and —like a dutiful
servant —did so, but to no purpose.
“ H.” writes ,
Some criticism was levelled (8., 19/11/’O3) at the
various shifts worked on Vic. railways by drivers and
firemen. In consequence, one of the worst of these
shift No. 30—has been changed from North to Port Mel-
bourne, probably to escape your criticism. The driver
must start his train at 6.29 a.m., and ends his last trip at
6.50 p.m.; add on lj hours before 6.26 a.m., getting
engine ready and taking it to Flinders-street, and one
hour to put engine away, and, making allowance for the
spells, the time worked is 13 hours 10 minutes, yet only
8J hours are paid for.
In the Yic. Assembly
Redistribution of Seats
scheme, the stupid old dis-
proportion between coun-
try and metropolitan elec-
torates is maintained. Un-
der this scheme three elec-
tors in the country are
worth four electors in the
metropolitan area. No
reason is given beyond the
fact that it has been cus-,
tomary to give the country
voter a greater value than
the metropolitan voter. So
long as this state of affairs
exists, the country tax-
payers are bound to force
the Treasurer to hand back
to them in grants for roads,
bridges, seed wheat, and
remitted land rents and
water dues, more than their
fair share of the revenue
of the country. It is this
disproportion in the. repre-
sentation of Parliament
that is keeping back the
land tax, which, it is ad-
mitted by Irvine himself,
is the key to successful
financing in Victoria.
Among the obscure
privileges which N.S.W.
Railway Act sanctions, to
the detriment of the public
purse, are the concessions
of a life pass to the Speaker,
President of the Council
and Lieutenant - Governor
after one year’s service,
to the Premier after two
years’, the Chief Justice
after three, and members
of the Cabinet after four.
A President of the United
States, or of France, retires
to his private position
when his official services come to .an end., and is
supposed to have been paid for his public work
while he performed it. In Australia public men
are badly paid while in office, but hang on to the
taxpayer in small unnoticed ways when their
existence has been wholly forgotten.
“Grenadier" writes:
Have seen no newspaper comments upon the crude art-
fulness of that British mission to Thibet. The “ mission
was to be accompanied by an escort of 300 Sikhs, 3000
Sepoys, a few cannon, and “ a few British soldiers, all over
6ft. high." The heathen Lama (or whatever his name may
be) who pursues an anti-British policy in Thibet will pre-
sumably accept the over 6ft. soldiers as fair samples of
the British army, and a fine effect will be achieved. The
secret of England’s greatness is largely Bluff.
No one expected much loyalty to Aus-
tralia from Sydney Sunday Slimes and Daily
Telegraph, but their frantic demand, in the
Stelling case, that Australia should provide for
the free admission of foreign criminals, and their
tremendous denunciations of the Deakin Govern-
ment for not freely admitting foreign criminals,
were something beyond the average in the way of
folly. In the frenzy of their conspiracy against
Australia, those two organs have forgotten that
there is a point at which the unclean business may
become unprofitable.
At the bidding of the servile Peacock, the
Yic. Assembly expelled Labor-member Findley
for reprinting in the Tocsin certain remarks made
by an Irish paper about the King—remarks which
the Age and Argus had already published, or of
which they had given the substance. But Findley
was a pro-Boer, and Victoria was mad just then.
Since then it has repented of its jingoism, its
farm-burning, and its Peacock—and it sends
Findley to the Senate with nearly 90,000 votes.
The miner, taking him all round, proves
himself the solidest anti-Foreign-trader and the
straightest White Australian in the Common-
wealth. Not a single mining district of size is now
represented bv an Oppositionist. Kalgoorlie has
sent in Laborite Frazer in place of Oppositionist
Kirwan; Capricornia (Mt. Morgan), Laborite
Thomson, vice Oppositionist Paterson; Broken
Hill, Cobar, Newcastle, Charters Towers, Gympie,
Croydon, and other Westralian fields are all for
THE MAN WITH TWO SOULS.
Labor; Bendigo, Ballarat, and the West Coast of
Tasmania are Ministerialist. It is a clean sweep.
“ B.” writes :
As anticipated, the recommendations of the Education
Commissioners are to practically sweep away the present
N.S.W. education system, which, they say, is an anti-
quated thing, and nothing like what it was supposed to
be. The costly document will probably go into the dusty
pigeon-hole. The stickers who have been in the front of
the Public Instruction Department for many years would
have almost to start life afresh to carry out the proposed
changes. All their pet ideas are threatened in the
Commissioners’ report, especially the pupil teacher
system. A bolder Minister than Perry, M.L.A., is wanted
before an expensive report, such as that furnished by the
Commissioners, can be of any practical benefit to the ;
State.
When David Syme dies, the word Trenwitk
will be found engraven on his liver. Luckily for
the Age autocrat the stupendous triumph of his,
enemy cast an enormous shadow before, and pre-
pared him for the blow. On the previous night &
crowd of some 8000 people jammed into Fitz-
geralds’ Circus building to hear what Trenny had
to say about the Age and other political matters.
When Syme got a report (not for publication) of
that most impressive meeting he knew what the
ballot had in store for him, and before retiring to
bed he took half a box-full or brown beans for-
baffled boshters.
“ G.H.” : I hereby give notice that I will
not be responsible for my actions if the Si*
Hatters are dragged forth at any other meeting I'
may attend. Within the last week I have seen,
the said political scarecrow exposed four times,
with blue lights and calcium effects ; and the next-
time it is inflicted on me I shall smite the show-
man with violence. Just at present it is unsafe
for any person from Kyabram or thereabouts to-
mention six hatters, or six plumbers, or six tram-
cars, or six anything in my hearing. Freetrade
Fakirs and Deformed League Mountebanks will
please note.
The Bulletin is waiting for the Tory
press of Victoria to sit down heavily on the-
farmers of that State as rebels. For weeks past
these farmers have been meeting in every little-
town to demand, in violent language, a reduction
in the grain freights on the railways. They have
also been sending representatives to the city to
waylay members in the corridors of Parliament
House. This agitation is kept up to put, money
in tue pockets of the farmers—a special class in-
the community—out of the Treasury, and any
person who is against “class domination ” should;
speak severely to Pumpkin and Co.
This significant item was lately carefully,
stowed away in an obscure corner of the im-
porters’ daily press, for fear it would gracelessly
slap in the face the unblushing lies with which
the rest of the page was covered in big election
print:—
It is understood that an English firm will shortly 1 '
establish large spinning works in the Commonwealth,
probably in Tasmania.
Of course, the patriotic and honest Herald and 1
Telegraph didn’t rise up hurriedly to state that-,
this was another evil of the Deakin tariff ; they
were too busy lying about the prosperous time in -
store if the people would only be content to hump
the importers’ foreign goods from the ship to the
warehouse.
The United States, which is a good deal-
further advanced than we are in the art of eject-
ing the undesirable immigrant, not only shuts out-
contract laborers, diseased persons, criminals,,
paupers, lunatics and Chinese, but it now charges-
two dollars admission fee to all immigrants coming-,
from outside North America. The man who.
won’t pay his two dollars isn’t allowed to land.
A shocked Maorilander lately published the-
receipt for his “head-tax,” and seemed to feel
hurt. Apropos that Maoriland bank clerk, who
was recently ejected from the States as a contract
laborer, was so carefully sent back that, when the--
vessel in which he returned stopped at Honolulu,
he was taken ashore and put in gaol during its-
stay.


POST AND DUTY FREE
To any address in these Btates, except W.A.
®l
I .
1 \
mßk
■-
mm «
H
THE
CALLAGHAN
BUTTON
BOOT,
IN FINE SOFT-FEELING
FRENCH CALF, SENT BY
RETURN MAIL TO YOU,
24/6
A PAIR.
For
THERE IS
STYL€
FIT
COMFORT
AND
W€AR
IN THIS BOOT.
fit you exactly, or we refund the money you send
to us.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
Read What
Vitadatio
Is Doing.
Hydatids on the Lungs.
bfttVEN OUT OF THE SYSTEM AND CURED BY
VITADATIO
Frank-street,
Off Munro-street,
Coburg.
27th March, 1901.
To Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Dear Sir,—For the benefit of suffering humanity I make
this statement. Five years ago I was very ill and was
reduced to a shadow, the doctor who was treating me
said I was suffering from Consumption and he could not
cure me. In the beginning of the year 1898 Mr. Thompson,
who was for many years overseer in the Printing Depart-
ment at Pentridge, who had to give up that position on
account of suffering from Consumption, and who had
derived great benefit from Vitadatio, advised me to call
at your Institute 47 Bourke-street and consult you. I did
so and you advised me to give Vitadatio a fair trial, as
it was a sure cure for me, I commenced with the medicine
and in a short time my disease began to pass away from
my system. I persevered with Vitadatio for some time,
gradually getting stronger and eventually I became quite
well and gained (1J) one and a half stone in weight. It
is now three years since I left off taking Vitadatio and it
is a proof that the disease has completely left the system,
as I have not had any return of the old trouble. I shall
be pleased to give any further information about my case
to anyone calling at my address.—l remain,
Yours faithfully,
ELIZABETH J. WILLIAMS.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street JV. f
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
SHREDDED WHEAT.
TJbtiaCTTIT,
The dainty, electric-baked substitute for bread, toast,
biscuits. For use with butter, &c., at every meal. Put
in hot oven to crisp before using.
Use also Shredded Wheat Biscuit with milk or
fruit, instead of porridge, pudding, or pastry.
All grocers. Sole Agent—
J. HENDERSON, 117 Collins Street, Helbourne.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
PRICE Is. Id. Post Free.
A man from Maoriland wails in London
Daily Telegraph about English hotels and
boarding-houses, where baths are so rarely ordered
that they are charged for as extras. And English
novelists continue to write about the daily “ tub ”
of their characters and the uncleanliness of
foreigners. Elinor Glyn’s “Elizabeth,” when
she went to France, was reproved because the
servant never found wet garments in the bath-
room after Elizabeth had been there (nobody else
used it) and her godmother was forced to the pain-
ful conclusion that she took her shower * 4 mid
nodings on.”
HAVE YOU READ
The New Household PamphIet—
“NEEDLEWORK of the TWENTIETH
CENTURY.”
FREE on Application— J. W. EEDY, Printer**
Market and Kent Streets.
Prevention and Cure
of Consumption.
Read article by F. Matthias Alexander in Syd-
ney Daily Telegraph, Saturday, 12th December.
Particulars regarding the author’s book will be
found on page 29 of this issue.
BONANZA PACKET PEERS
Brew Your Own Beer!
Ordinary Household Utensils.
Non-Intoxicating. No Salicylic. Pure Hops, Herb*
and Fruit Extracts.
No Trouble. No Yeast Required.
Bonanza Beers make their own Qas.
Ginger, Kola, Hop, Bitter and Table Beer, Dandelion,
Ale, Lemonade, Shandygaff, Ciderade, Stout.
All stores and grocers. 1, 2 and 5 gal. packets, 6d., Is
2s„ or direct by post to any State, Bd., Is. 3d., 2s. 3d.
Draught Ciderade, without gas, made with cold
water, and ready for use in one hour.
BPEClAL.—Bonanza Sarsaparilla Is the best
blood-purifier in the world, and contains the genuine
Jamaica Root. In 1 and 2 gal. packets, Is. and 2s.
T. DORGAN & LON,
143 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
This Elastic Truss
wswhpw
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 157-
Double, 20/-
is something better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
* 281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St 1
And-atOorSwapston and Lonsdale Stg„ Melbourne
Sunlight Soap will not
burn the nap off woollens
nor the surface off linens.
SUNLIGHT
SoHP
REDUCES
EXPENSE
TYPEWRITERS
ĥ
3 of the World’s Best
'msm&jzr
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY
Velvent touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,^
BYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Webster & 00.. ADELAIDE—N. York Import. Go. LAUN CESTyff y Burro*.
Jas. Copeland, formerly of the firm of
M'Arthur, Sherrard and Copeland (Vic.), is hale
and hearty at the age of 87 on his South Gippsland
property, “ Drumlarney.” He remembers travel-
ling on the first railway opened in England when
a buyer for his father’s Irish soft-goods firm.
The Carruthers party is steadily gaining
seats in N.S.W. on the strength of its programme
of economy. Yet, strangely enough, nobody
even asks it what it means by economy; how
much it reckons it can run the country on;
whether it is going to borrow nothing, or
£1,000,000 a year, or £5,000,000 a year. Economy
means anything that the alleged economist likes.
Some men call 2d. extravagance, and some call
£lOOO meanness. M’Millan got charge of the
N. S. W. Treasury on the economy device, and he
had a big deficit every year, and ran up the loan
expenditure to the highest figure on record. Will
Carruthers please define his economy ?
Black-labor Cowley, Speaker of Queens-
land Assembly, swears he will carry to the High
Court the question whether the Constitution
allows the Federal Parliament to block a man
from running for a seat because he happens to be
in a State House. It was thought his mouth had
been stopped with the Speakership; but he is
aching for fight, and so lodged a paper with
a Northern Q. returning-officer purely in a
tread-on-my-coat-tail spirit. It looks, anyhow,
as though this will be the first large matter in
which the High Court will appear as guardian of
the Constitution, and superior to even the Par-
liament itself.
N.S.W. Parliamentary season closed
without the threatened keel-hauling of Judge
Docker, and that erratic person still whirls cheer-
fully in his orbit. The Judge simply does not
realise that there is anything bizarre in his Bench
arguments with juries. He lives judicially in the
early N.S.W. world, when the Judge was a mem-
ber of the jury—or rather when five or six officials
were Judge and jury. The early Judge Advocate
and his brethren on the Bench examined the
accused, disoussed his offence, and deliberated
together on the verdict. In Forbes’ day the
Bench was restricted to law and the jury made
supreme on facts; but Docker appears to have
never heard about the change.
“ D’Harum ” : Another military row at
.Adelaide. A well-known Scottish identity with
his kilts, etc., entered an Adelaide restaurant.
At a table sat three well-known citizens and a
colonel. As the Scotchman passed them he
remarked “ Good day, colonel.” The colonel
ignored the salutation, and the ire of the mon
fr’ the Highlands rose. He repeated, in a louder
tone, “Good day, Colonel.” The colonel looked
at him. “Oh, good day,” he said, offhandedly.
The old Scot stood still. “Colonel,” he re-
marked, slowly, “be a gentleman, even if y’ be a
colonel.” And then he passed on, and sat down
to a bowl of Scotch broth.
That weary person Wyatt has been orga-
nising branches of the Navy League in Tasmania.
At Hobart, with the Governor in the chair,
Wyatt told the people—
The very life of Australia depends on a strong fleet.
It will be utterly impossible to have a White Australia
without such a fleet.
And the Black-and-Tan inhabitants are so much
in the habit of applauding when the blessed Fleet
is mentioned that they cheered wildly. Hobart
is so “loyal” that if the British Royal Family
declared for a White Australia, the Labor party
would have to defend the local Chinese with pick-
axes to prevent the Very Best People of the
Island slaying them in cold blood.
Old Nat Levi, the most unconscious joke
in the whole House of Vic. Landlords, is much
concerned about “ the loss of population in the
State since 1892, as shown by a paragraph in the
Argus.” Clothed with an air of grave responsibility
Nathaniel arose the other afternoon to ask whether
the Government was about to do something to
stay emigration. Attorney-General Davies, having
duly exposed the sinful foolishness of the Argus
figures, remarked that whenever the Government
introduced a measure to provide land for the people
oranythinglike that, Nat’s vote was given againstit.
Compared with the older a,nd harder-shelled Tories
even Irvine deserves a kind word. The Iceberg
may have sometimes striven to place people
on the land. A Levi Ministry would put them
mostly under it.
Sydney Evening News was a bitterly
shocked paper when intelligence of the Labor
victories in Westralia and S.A. began to pour in,
and it appealed thus: —
On the issue of Socialism versus Anti-Socialism, Mr.
Reid should, before long, be able to gather a strong fol-
lowing round him ; and, in the interests of the country,
it is to be hoped that he will lose no time in setting
things in motion for the formation of an Anti-Socialist
Party, irrespective of tariff differences.
Exactly so. And if the Freetrade minority would
drop its tariff differences something of the sort
might happen. But if two parties join “ irrespec-
tive of tariff differences” the question always
rises—which one is to irrespect ?
J. J. Wilkinson, the man who was
running for the Senate in Westralia, but retired
because some of the papers called him a pro-Boer,
didn’t have much of a chance, anyway. The
strongest argument one of his press supporters
could find in his favor was that he is about the
best turf-handicapper in Westralia. But a
remarkable man in many ways is “Jim” Wil-
kinson. For years he was the best known coach-
driver in the Western districts of N.S.W. Most
coach-drivers are garrulous about their present
and past teams and little else; Wilkinson knew
Gordon from first to last, and recited him in a
huge voice by the hour. He left off coach-driving
10 or 15 years ago, but has since cultivated horse
and horse-poetry just as hard as ever.
It is not “the same Old George.’ It is
the old player telling of his former greatness:
There was some opposition, but Mr. Reid silenced it bv
a reference To his long and honorable negotiations with
the Labor party. —S.M. Herald (8/12/’O3), on Mr. Reid at
Redfern.
They had stood beside him for 24 years, and he did not
think they were going to support Victorians and desert
him .—George at Redfern.
For 23 years with only one break he had represented
East Sydney, but if they thought that he had ceased to
be of value —well, he was getting a bit old, etc. — Same
George at Woolloomooloo.
All the vanity of the decayed mummer who tells,
in pothouse corners, of the way he played
Hamlet 20 years ago. The man who is not “the
same Old George ” is beginning to note the yawns
and the weary looks, and craves their pity. “T
am growing old, gentlemen, -Don’t bump the
aged. ”
Recall now the brag of George Reid during
the last few months. The valiant George was
going to flatten out some prominent Minister —
Barton not being available, Lyne was going to be
his cold-meat. But when it came to the pinch
George sat tight in safe East Sydney, and sent
poor little M’Lean to be killed in the Hume.
“Every member of the Deakin Government shall
be opposed by strong Opposition candidates, ”
said Reid—and there wasn’t a strong Oppositionist
to face a single one of them 1 Deakin, Turner,
Forrest, Chapman, all of them unopposed; and
Lyne only opposed because the small Reidite who
was sent down there had no show in his old
electorate.
“ Vic.” : I find it necessary to modify my
opinion of policemen. One of him was called on
by the chairman of a political meeting the other
night, and instructed to cast me out (I had asked
the candidate what his principles were). Instead
of obeying with flunkey-like readiness, he protested
audibly, and only “ discharge^'his jooty”ina
reluctant manner when the chairman (a squatter,
J.P., and several other iniquitous substances)
pompously threatened to report him at head-
quarters. Also he apologised to me earnestly all
the way down the aisle. I accepted his apology
and signified the same in beer. Afterwards we
formed ourselves into a Fenian society, and pro-
pose commencing active propaganda work by
blowing-up Irvine’s deficit. Contributions of
dynamite will be gladly received.
“ M.” sends a protest :
J. Denniitoun Wood, the bygone politician who recently
■ecured a seat in Tas. Assembly, is curiously described
by an amateur or outsider when dubbed “ the liveliest
and most brainy in the small crowd of members" (B.
19/11/’O3). Wood, so far as my twelve years or so of
gallery experience goes, is the woodenest politician who
ever achieved any sort of reputation. He’s as lively as a
snail in a swamp. A certain fluency of speech he has, a
wearisome blare of words ; but his brightness consists in
the ordinary intelligence of a fairly shrewd lawyer
blurred by age and a long period of inactivity. I’ve just
seen Wood’s volume of “ poems an arid collection of
forced rhymes and unsuccessful attempts at rhymes—
lines that limp and jerk and stagger in their pitiful
anxiety to score—ineffectual verses right through, ai
musical as a kerosene tin in the hands of a suburban
small boy. This is his “first volume of poems." I hope
there may be no second.


Shipping. __
LUND’S BLUeTnCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
ħ
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
jONDON £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agent 3 : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-street.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking, Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.— m u\ i
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
cs>
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
aKr.s.-w,
fQont deplete D.s |.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
■ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. 6
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £457,354
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
. £693,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World. ,
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Oo.), Sir John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jhssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, VV. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP 190,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ... ••• £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
'
ftMiMki
means
DANGER!
Wilson’s
Commonsense
Ear Drums
mean relief and
SAFETY
Send a postcard to-day for
descriptive booklet (posted
free),givingtestimonialsfroni
Australian users. Established
8 years: sales largely increas-
ing. Address: J. Chalmers,
229-231 Collins St., Melbourne
h
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
ID*L COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
KT. ID. L.
(NOIID-DKUTSCIIEIi LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
ĥ
♦Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.B.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 20th JANUARY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about 15th JANUARY,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AERIC, and SUEVIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 27 0 0
25 2 6 to .33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dahjety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen's Mansions, 2 to 5 Boasonsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-*- the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
QOE A.WTIO
THE
STEA 3VE S U I P
A. AND AT LINE.
PAST MAIL
COMPAKTY.
LINE.
Sydney to Auckland
Auckland to Pago Pago
Samoa to Fanning Island ..
Fanning Island to Honolulu
Honolulu to San Francisco
Overland to New York
New York to London
Passengers can break the journey en route.
31 days.
days.
days
2* d
days.
days.
ħ
Elaborately appointed Staterooms for occupancy of not more than TWO Passengers.
No Steamers on the Pacific compare with our “ Sister Ships,” Sierra, Sonoma, Ventura. The NEWEST, LARGEST
(6200 tons), FASTEST, AND ONLY STEAMERS HAVING TWIN-SCREWS WITH TWO SETS OF
INDEPENDENT ENGINES.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
Send for Illustrated Matter, including- New Publication, “If Not, Why Not?” Post Free, 3d.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Hanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
'—TUB—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mul mil Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability. *
Offices • - 105 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Robirts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch: Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mili.br.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305—assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling-. Liberal Bonuses-eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
410 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500.000
The Rank of north Oueeoslafld
f LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Uo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL *700.000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 260.900 ... £350,000
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyNE
Caution, —Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c -. beai ' 3 03
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 23 1895, says:
"If I were asked which single medicine [ should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to ba
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without) it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation. "
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Save*
Extraction, Sleepless Night!
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head-aches & all Nerve
Pains remorsd by BUNTEB’B
NEKVINE. Of aU Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I hata
Used it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D (
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’SworsdellsPlLLS
Arc a certain Cure lor Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ao,
Ok all Sieves.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
AORANQI, DECEMBER 28
The Fastest Steamer Crossing the
Pacific*
Rocky Mountains, Niagara Falls,
AND THE CITIES OF
New York, Chicago, Montreal and
Boston En Route.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
TheLanghamHotel
PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated In the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
riodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
TFTTH
k
PERSONAL MAGNETISM, Etc. By our system you
can learn this wonderful Science at home. It enables
you to cure Diseases, Bad Habits, such as DRUNKEN-
NESS, win Reluctant Affection, create amusement, make
friends and money, and gratify your highest ambitions.
We absolutely guarantee success. Our book on Hyp-
notism, Personal Magnetism, etc., Richly Illustrated
throughout with Photos from Life of Persons Hypnotised,
is the finest work of its class ever issued, is intensely in-
ten sting, and has been the means of starting thousands
on the road to success. Send for Book, post free, and
test for yourself this remarkable power. The American
Institute of Science, Victoria Buildings, 63b Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
From the famous
farms of South Africa
Black, White, or
Cream.
5/
The Bunch.
Post Free.
Worth 15/-
h
We make this special offer,-, to
advertise our Ostrich Tips.
Write Now. Send Postal Notes.
Illustrated Price List Sent Free,
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Mol bourn®
Mention Tub Bulletin.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP-00.
(LIMIT HD).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingab Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Thursday,
Dec. 24, at 5 p.ni. (Tran-
shipping at Melbourne).
S.S. Yongala (Newest and
Fastest Steamer on the
Coast), Saturday, Jan. 2,
at 10 a. m. (Without
Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Oalrna
S.S. Gabo, Dec. 26, at Noon.
S.S. Allinga, Jan. I,ats p.m.
S.S. Rockton, January 9,
at Noon.
Best and Cheapest Jtoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after tha
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARH.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
POUT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
ĥ
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, J 627 to £77,
including' table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meeS
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
„ . BY THE . .
“E. AND LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
ħ
♦Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe vi% Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
Soda Water Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs, —The machine purchased from you is per-
fection. Tub Stuff turned out is Splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. P. Kennedy, Ooolgardie, says:—“Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says “ It' is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says:—“Since getting one of
your Machines, and making our own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says:—“Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says :—“ Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says" Value of
Machine indisputable; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland,says :—“Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says :—“Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.” _
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists FOR
A GOOD QUALITY Of AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE THE PROFITS.
Call and see these machines, or write for circular describ-
ng them, also Price List. Prices Reduced.
Eaylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co*
407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
Q 6 R« CORO's
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEtILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne; N.S. IF.—Faulding & Co., 16 O’Cinnell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth,
Extract from historical essay by a school-
boy up in the bracing atmosphere of the New
England (N. S. W.) tableland:
Simon De Montfort, otherwise known as Simon the
Brighteous, was the second son ot a man of the same
man was a general, one of the Crusades or Holly words.
On the death of his father young Simon went over to
England to get the earldom of Leicester which he claimed
from his mother, King Edward 111. whose ink was
scarcely dry. However, he treated the people worse than
ever, but one night they was crossing an Inlet called the
wash the next after having a meal of peachers. After the
King made him governor over his estate. This annoyed
the barons worse than ever.


CROUPY CHILDREN.
If your children are subject to croup, watch for
the first symptom of the disease—hoarseness. If
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is given as soon as
tiie child becomes hoarse, the attack can be
averted. Even after the croupy cough has
appeared, the attack can always be prevented by
giving this remedy. It is also invaluable for colds
and whooping cough. It always cures, and cures
quickly. Is. 6d.*
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
MORRIS'S^
"IMPERIAL,** Imperial
J£\?e * *
©intment
AtMs lustre, strengthens risCoir,
restores lashes. No toilet taoM'e
t * complete without it. Pots 2/-
chemists At store*,- Post.2/2 from Proprietary, Melbl
h
SOLE AGENTB
Illmtrated Catalogues
and Patterns post free.
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
AERTEX
The Original
CELLULAR.
Th« Healthiest end most Comfortable Underwear (or Mao. Women and
Children.
The continually increasing popularity of Aertex Cellular Clothing
has led to numerous inferior imitations being sold under similar
names.
The public are warned against buying imitations when described
as "just as good as Aerte*,“
D. BRAHAM & CO.
73 and 75 King Street*
ENO’S FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT/
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE.
GOOD HAIR FOR
ALL!
All Chemist a.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and sriving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY“IT. If it ia
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., Sa. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
S3T For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
tST For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soui, it Co.,
Pitt-street, Syduey.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
SWJd by nil Chemists,.,and by WATKINS & MACKAV, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON 92 Geor™
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and ' * "
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
A Policy for the Commonwealth,
3r*ar£oe. 6d. ; Posted, Bd.
H. NEWMAN S
KFYI FSS
WORKERS’ WATCH
to
%
Specially imported by H. NEWMAN.
Strong, Beautifully Chased, Oxydised Case,
Emblematical of the 8 Hours principle, f-plate
movement, 2 pair extra jewels and guaranteed a
perfect timekeeper.
Every Worker in the State should have one
Price 30g« (post free to any address).
H. NEWMAN,
312 Bourke St., Melbourne
(Adjoining Buckley & Nunn’s).
LADIES 1
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel. 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations sind semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
ĥ
from Weak Nerves, Impure Blood, the Kidneys, Rheumatism, the Spine and Bladder,
WOMEN WHO WASTE AWAY from Anaemia, Poverty of Blood, Leucorrhoea,
nuim.n nnu HHaiEi **nn I and Internal Complaints. Ac.. Ac..
A CHAT WITH YOU.
and Internal Complaints, Ac., &c.,
DON'T LOSE HEART! DON’T DESPAIR! DON'T DIE!
Herr RASSMUSSEN S HERBAL ALFALINE SPECIFICS
Have Cured Many Thousands. They have held their own against all comers for over 20 years,
and have never been known to fail. THEY WILL CURE YOU.
DO YOU KNOTS
That Herr Rassmussen possesses the most wonderful Specific Remedies for the
Blood and l Nerves ?
That Hera Rassmussen guarantees his Alfaline Herbal Remedies to Cure ?
DO YOXJ KNOW . . .
That Herr Rassinussen’s Remedies are purely Herbal, and contain no mercury
other mineral poisons ? J
That Herr Rassmussen has Thousands of Testimonials ?
DO YOU PIIMOW . . . Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies Mever Fail to Cure?
ALFALBNE VITALITY NERVE PILLS.
This remedy can be depended om t<o> cure all kinds of Nervous Diseases, Debility, Vital
Weakness, Despondency, Melancholia* Specks before the Eyes, Want of Memory, Bash-
fulness, and entirely stop the Waste fi om the System which is so weakening to the
Spine, Brain, and Nerves. It entirely ..builds up and restores a broken-down Nervous
System. Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d.; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.; Smaller Boxes
at 12s. and 6s. each. Posted unobserved. , .
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a guaranteed Cure for the worst form s of Blood Diseases, no matter how caused or
ot how long standing, whether secondary or any other stage. This remedy completely
purines, cleans and purges the Blood of all kinds of Impurities, and leaves the system
as pure as a new-born. baby. It container no Mercury, like all other remedies do used
tor the Blood and Skin, and will entirely Cure aIL Diseases of the Skin and Blood,
Cravel and Stones in the Bladder, and aifil complaints of the Drinary passage. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6cL; Ordinary Couisse, 235. 6d.; Smaller Boxes at I2s. and 6s. each.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Never fail to Cure all forma of Amsemia, and entirely Cure and Prevent the most fear-
ful VVasting Diseases, which defy all other forms of treatment. They are particularly
effective in the treatment of all kinds of Internal Female Complaints, and being entirely
harmless, and most wonderfully effective for strengthening and thickening the Blood and
building up the Nerves. Course, 235. 6d.; Boxes, 12s. and 6s.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS.
This is absolutely the world’s best remedy for Constipation, Indigestion, Wind, Heart-
burn, Flatulence, and all complaints of the Liver and Kidneys. Boxes, Is.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS
Cure Rheumatism, Gout and Sciatica. Boxes, 125., 6s. and 3s.
ALFALINE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS
Will Cure Asthma and Cough, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all Lung and Chest troubles.
Courses, 235. 6d.; Boxes, 6s.
ALFALINE PILE POWDERS, a won-
derful remedy for completely eradicating
both Internal and External Blind and
Bleeding Piles. Gives instant relief.
ALFALINE CORN CURE, Is. /
ALF ALINE FAT-REDUCING POW-
DER is entirely harmless, and is the
jfr best fat-rectecing powder in the world.
«■' Boxes, 6s. and 3s.
ALFALINE OINTMENT. Is. f
ALFALINE EMBROCATION, excel-
lent for Cyclists, Cure Stiff Joints, Gout,
and Chapped Skin. Bottles, Is.
ALFALINE HEADACHE TABLETS.
Instantaneous and permanent cure. Is.
ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER.
Restores the Hair, 6s.
ALFALINE EUCALYPTUS. Bottles, Is.
ALFALINE WORM TABLETS. Is.
COMPLEXION BEAUTIFIER. 65.&35.
HOOK POSTED (FREE.—A Valuable Book containing Valuable Advice for all Complaints Posted Free and Unobserved.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALITY.
All correspondence wall be held strictly confidential. Remedies will be posted in plain cover, and
therefore entirely unobserved, both from the Head Office and Agencies. Make Cheques and Money
Orders payable fo», HANS RASSSMUSSEN. Register letters containing Money, and when Special Advice is required, address letters as follows:
HERR RASSM US SEN’S Head Office: 547 George St, Sydney
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies can also be obtained forom his Agencies, as follows:
309 QUEEN STREET.
ADELAIDE: 15 PULTENEY iY.h| W.A.: PERTH, 481 HAY ST. | KALGOORME: 111 HANNAN ST. | N.Z.: 91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON.
“T.D.”. Is the hollowness of the vice-
regal tuft-hunting business dawning at last upon
the Australian citizen ? Time was when daily
paper reporters had the most detested day’s work
of the year in going to a Governor’s levee, watch-
ing the grovel, and copying several thousand
names for publication, taking care not to duplicate
from the half-dozen visiting cards which most of
the loyal kow-towers handed in to make sure they
were not overlooked. Gov.-General Tennyson’s
levee on King’s Ned’s day was attended by less
than a hundred people outside officialdom, and
most of them failed to go to the imbecile length of
wearing evening dress at 10 a.m. and being con-
siderably guyed by the small boy in the street.
When George Hazeldine, who stands
charged with stealing a bottle of brandy from
the Murtoa (Victoria) railway station, comes up
•n tr u al in February next (if he does), his case
will have been meandering aimlessly around
the Crown Law offices for just 13 months. This
is scandalous, even fora Law Department which
had already put up a pretty steep record for
slowness. It seems that in January last the
accused came before the Court of Petty Sessions
charged with the theft of a bottle of brandy. He
pleaded guilty to the offence, recouped the owners
the value of the brandy, and asked to be retired
from the railway service. A police magistrate
and two J s.P. were on the Bench, and although
Hazeldine asked to be dealt with summarily, he
was sent to trial at the higher court, simply
because the Bench could not agree on the penalty.
Ihe case was several times mentioned in the
higher court, and eventually an application was
made for a mandamus to compel the lower court
to complete its adjudication. There was some
further delay, and after that the Crown Law office
seems to have fallen asleep, for its representative
at the Horsham General Sessions lately admitted
that he was not aware that accused, for lack of
funds, had abandoned the proceedings for a
mandamus. Even Judge Johnston expressed
UnU m. a l y^loud sur P ri se. It is a strange and
muddied Government which, can’t get through
with a charge of stealing one bottle of liquor in
less than a year and a quarter.


Wallace (Little Red Tyres) have carried off
three Australs. They are fast; and. light, and are made'
especially for the grass. When we instance such men as>
Major Taylor, Robl and Martin using Wallace-Continental;
Tyres, you may rest assured that they are faster tnair
other makes.*
4 * • *
They take their football very seriously in Eng-
land. Papers of November 2 tell how, on the previous
day, a man of 62 died of excitement during a match in
Lancashire—a “qualifying” game for the English Gup,
of no importance whatever except to the players apu
their friends. “ The incident occurred towards the
close, when the local team was pressing Southport
severely, and seemed likely to equalise the scores.
Medical aid was summoned, and he regained partial con-
sciousness and murmured, ‘Did they.score? .He was
reassured, and then sank into insensibility again, from
which he never recovered."
NOTICE TO AGENTS AND OTHERS.
The next issue of THE BULLETIN will
be published a day earlier than usual (on
Wednesday, 30th December).
“A New Woman”
j;
Disease makes many a woman prematurely old.
Dark-rimmed eyes, hollow cheeks, and wasted
form are accompanied by listlessness and loss or
ambition. Home duties are a weariness, and
social pleasures have no attraction. One of the
'•r
commonest expressions of
women cured by Dr,
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
is this, “ They have made
a new woman of me.”
There’s a world of mean-
ing in the words. It
means the sparkle brought
to the eye; the complexion
tinted with the rosy hue
of healthy blood ; the form
rounded out anew in grace-
ful curves; the whole body
radiant with health. No
better testimony as to the
value of this remedy
could be offered than that
of Mrs. S. C. Funnell,
Waiowaka, Wellington, New Zealand, who
writes: — _ , , ..
“I think it is about time I let you know the
benefit I have received from Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. My ba,ck was that bad if I tried to
sit up straight it felt as if it would break. I also
suffered with sick headaches since I was twelve
years of age ; lam now twenty-five. There was
scarcely a day but what I had a headache more or
less, tiil about two years ago I tried Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, after trying many other patent
remedies. After taking about two bottles of the
pills I felt better, and after taking six bottles I
felt better than I had done for years. I have not
had a bad back since. When I happen to get a
headache—which is not very often—a dose of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills sets it all right.
My husband says they are the best pills he has
ever used.” •
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills make weak
women strong and sick women well. They dry
debilitating drains, heal inflammation, and cure
female weakness. They make new women of those
prematurely aged by disease. They are a positive
and permanent cure for all diseases arising from a
disordered stomach or liver, and they will per-
manently cure constipation, biliousness, and sick
headache, at the same time acting as a perfect
blood purifier. Packed in amber bottles, and sold
throughout Australasia.*
Advance copies of Phil May in Australia, con-
taining a collection of the artist’s best pictures
contributed to The Bulletin— in cartoon-work,
portraiture, and humorous drawings—may bo
inspected at The Bulletin oflßces, 214 George-
street, Sydney, and 369 Collins-street, Melbourne.
The subscription price is 10s. 6d ; and orders are
now being received. The book will be published
on 17th January, in an edition limited to 975
copies (and 25 numbered copies in superior bind-
ing, with extra plate, at £1 11s. 6d.) The
publishers reserve the right to raise the price
on publication if found advisable.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, ’ the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. .everywhere.
No Preservatives.
BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING
Absolutely Pure,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The great test match lasted six days, and
although the attendance fell off, general interest in the
game was unabated right through. It was a wonderful
struggle, and saw more records wrecked than any
previous contest of any sort that this paper knows of.
In batting Ranji’s 175, Sid. Gregory’s 201, and Murdoch’s
211 were all passed by Foster, and when he had passed
the Australians’first innings all on his little own there
was a mighty cheer. Apparently it disconcerted that mag-
nificent slogger, as he promptly lifted one in the off into
Noble’s hands. The visitors’ accumulation was the highest
ever made by an English team in a test match, and was
also a record score of runs for wickets taken. Previous
best was 1514 for 40 wickets, but the Englishmen this
time made 1541 for 35 wickets. Even the gate money
was a record, beating the previous best, £4006, taken at
Melbourne when Stoddart’s team was here, ’94-5, by £226.
* * * *
It was the fourth day that the Australians
played their great uphill game, and at stumps draw stood
75 to the good, with five wickets still to go. It was also
the day of the great Trumper innings. With the score at
three for 191 Duff shaped schoolboyishly at one from
Rhodes, and Relf held the simplest of catches. Rhodes
had sent down 10 overs for 9 runs and two wickets.
Trumper took the vacant crease, and was 20 minutes
scoring four runs. Then he back-cut Braund’s first and
second balls for four each, the third resulted in four byes,
and four more were gathered off the fourth ball. Then
came the Hill-Crockett episode. Noble joined his whilom
school-chum, and Trumper absolutely thrashed the
bowling, making four after four, till the century appeared
simultaneously with his side’s 332, after he had batted
somewhere about 1£ hours. Two runs later Noble stepped
out to one and was promptly stumped. Armstrong
joined Trumper, and the score was 367 before play closed.
Next morning 11 were scored from Rhodes’ two overs.
Playing forward one grazed the edge of Armstrong’s bat
and went to Bosanquet, who, though falling, held it
securely. Hopkins, Laver, Howell, and Saunders joined
him and were dismissed in turn, and after batting 3hrs.
60min. Trumper carried his bat for 185. He made 25
fours and played a most- brilliant game, placing the ball
where he liked and giving never one chance. Comparison
of his rate of scoring with that of Foster and Noble
reveals that he compiled 133 in exactly half the time
occupied by them over the same number.
* * * *
The only unpleasantness in the match was
really due to the loose, not to say absolutely bad fielding
of the Englishmen on the fourth day. Overthrows were
frequent, and it was one of them that caused the trouble.
Umpire Crockett declared Hill “run out” when he
appeared to be well in. Hill himself said he was “yards
to the good.” Anyhow, the crowd roared condemnation,
taking its cue from the members’ pavilion, and for
several seconds the hooting was infernal. It broke out
spasmodically all through the play, and at the close
Crockett came in for a further demonstration. This sort
of thing is to be regretted. The umpire may be wrong,
but he is more likely to be right than the distant occu-
pant of the members’ stand who is possibly a gentleman
who has plunged on the result.
* * * *
It is quite usual for the English visiting team to
win the first test and lose all the others ; this may be no
exception to the rule. Stoddart’s men, five years ago,
had nine wickets to the good, and M’Laren’s eleven, two
years ago, won by an innings and 124 runs. Twenty-nine
of the 67 tests played have gone to England, 26 to Aus-
tralia, and 12 have been drawn. Of 38 matches played in
Australia, 20 have gone to the home teams and 18 to the
Englishmen. Of 29 played in England, Bull has won 13,
Australia 6, and the drawn games numbered 10.
* * * *
One of the most humorous sights of the recent
test match was the way the Australian fieldsmen swarmed
round Rhodes, the last man to join Foster when that
mighty hitter was making the world’s record in a test
match. They were like crows round a lamb, and
almost grabbed the ball the moment it struck his bat.
But Rhodes was caution itself, and, in spite of the most
assiduous attention, he lasted long enough to make 40
and see 130 added to the score. The English tail is a
wiry appendage. * * *
Foster’s second innings was very different from
his record-breaking first. He was batting 18 minutesbefore
he got a run and had only 19 to his credit when he went
out to off-drive Armstrong, but the ball broke clear of the
bat and Kelly had the bails off in a twinkling. He was
in 59 minutes and uncertain all the time.
* * * *
“0.K.” : Out of respect for a popular cricketer,
the real cause of the Sydney crowd’s demonstration against
Crockett has been carefully ignoied by commentators.
Clem Hill gave the cue for groans and hisses when he
stood his ground and stared at the umpire who had ruled
him “ run out.” Had the batsman accepted the judg-
ment without any dumb demur, the crowd would have
merely mourned his bad luck, instead of surmising that
the decision was a mistake. They couldn’t see any
reason for hooting, except the reason suggested to them
by the batsman’s tactics. As for the absurd imputation
on Crockett’s character—well, it came from the most
excited portion of the onlookers, and no reasonable per-
son expects to find common sense in a cricket crank.
r * * * »
The cricket barracker has his flashes of humor.
When umpire Crockett gave Hill “run out” in the first test
match the crowd exhausted its vocabulary in finding suit-
able expressions to convey its contempt for the umpire,
his family before him, and his children after him. At
last a raucous voice, raised in withering scorn, was heard
above the din : “ Yer ort to stand for the Senate.”
« * * *
Trumble will play in second test match on
M.C.C. ground, New Year’s Day. Likely he’ll supplant
Laver. Also possible that Trott may be resurrected for
the occasion. M.C.C. ground has seen Australia success-
ful in last four matches played there. Australia has won
eight, and England six, of the 16 contested on M.C.C.
ground. Other two were drawn games.
The feature of the N.S.W.-S.A. return match
has been the consistent scoring of the N.S.W. men so far
as they have gone. O. Gregory stepped out of the train
and made 97. Noble also has been in scoring mood.
Mackay, the new inter-State man, made a fine start with
66—six less than Trumper’s. Claxton, though still lame
from an injury received in Sydney, has alone bowled
with much success. The big N.S.W. scoring seems to
put the match outside S.A.'s reach.
• * * *
N.S.W. team chosen to meet Queensland in
Sydney this week is a surprise. Five of the 12 were not
in the 11 or next 13 on University Oval last month. The
object is, apparently, to encourage younger players, but,
in the face of Queenslanders’ good showing against
Britishers, the policy is dangerous.
* * * #
S.A.’s “ Eton and Harrow ” match ended last
weekin the easiest of wins for Prince Alfred College players,
whose moderate score of 205 brought them home with an
innings to spare. St. Peters, however, still have the
longest list of wins to credit. There was no Hill playing
for' P.A.0., the generous supply of Clem’s brothers
having at last run out. The youngest of them was, on
the same day, engaged in winning an electorate match
with an excellent 75 not out, and another is strongly
backed for trial in inter-State cricket for his bowling.
• » * »
A recent Vic. Grammar School match put up
what looks like a record. Geelong College’s first two
batsmen made 353 on the first day—no wickets down.
Brighton Grammar School’s total was 2. The first bats-
man and the last made one each ; nobody else scored.
One bowler took 7 for nil; another did the hat trick.
* • • »
M.L. Bookmakers’ Association, a show with a
fighting reserve of £6OO, has now adopted a fawning,
conciliatory attitude towards cluhs, and pleads in a pretty
little circular to be licensed to bet on courses. Ikey says
in his characteristic way that he would sooner be con-
trolled than have to bet surreptitiously, as at present.
Legitimate bookmaking isn’t unlawful in M.L.; the sur-
reptitious betting spoken of is the unlawful tote-odds
laying. And if the gentry with the aroma of the
billiard-room clinging to their clothes think clubs are
going to allow them to openly compete with the tote on
their own green swards, they make a fine healthy error.
* * * *
“ 0.K.”: It is not enough that Isaac Mosea has
been prohibited from crying the odds at wheel races. His
very existence calls for suppression. He ought to be writ
down on the statutes as a capital offence. The full infamy
of Ikey’s odds on the Austral Final was exposed in Melb.
Herald t’other Saturday, without a word of reprobation
from that family journal. “ Even money Scharp, 4 to 1
each against Meyer, Scheps, and Kett, 6 to 1 against
Walker, and 10 to 1 against others.” There were 14
runners. For the information of the average Juggins,
who knows nothing whatever about bookmaking as an
exact science, here is an imaginary “ volume.” The sup-
posititious Ike opens his speculation by laying “ a level
’underd agin the favorite,” and then proceeds to bet up
to that first risk :
Risks Receives Pays out on a win
£lOO ■ to £lOO Scharp .. £2OO
120 ~ 30 Sclieps .. 160
120 „ 30 Kett .. 150
120 ~ 30 Meyer .. 150
120 „ 20 Walker .. 140
100 ~ 10 Outsider .. 110
Eight other outsiders! Rn
at £lOO to £lO / ou
£3OO
Ikey receives £3OO. Against this his biggest liability is
£2OO, his lowest £llO. If the favorite wins, the man
with the bag comes out of it with £lOO to the good. An
outsider’s victory shows a profit of £l9O. And the
original outlay ( i.e ., risk) was only £lOO. Of course, the
barrackers for Ikey will argue that no member of the
beaky brotherhood could “get round" on such easy
terms as these, several of the runners being unmarket-
able, because they were supposed to be “ stiff." But one
is quite justified in assuming the published odds to have
been the longest odds obtainable at the start. And as
for the “ stiff ’’ starters, there is no denying the fact that
each of them was a possible winner. A bad smash-up
during the race might have shattered all the cronk
arrangements, and converted the surviving competitors
into triers, and the victory of an unbacked outsider
would have meant “ a skinner ” for Moses.
* • * *
“ Eph Gee Ell ” (Kalgoorlie): Let me curse the
ultra-intelligent comp, entrusted with a par re triple
dead heats, printed in Bulletin 26/10/’O3, for having set
“Iscariot” for “Islamite," winner of Kalgoorlie Cup
triple dead heat run-off in 1899. Result thereof (to me)—-
four sarcastically-worded pars from local (W.A.) turf-
scribe confreres (how sporting writers do love one an-
other !) and cutting remarks from my worser half concern-
ing my want of goldfields racing knowledge. ’Pears to
me that the comp, responsible has been setting too many
Eersonals anent S.A. Premier Iscariot Jenkins, and has
ecome afflicted with Iscariotisis. Anyway, please sack
the comp.—whether married or single—throw him out
on the cold world, and deny him any chance to partici-
pate in the benefits of any old-age fund or superannuated
comps.’ society. Push him Sheolward3 and—we’U meet
in the sweet by-and-bye.
* * ' * *
Alec Taylor, who belonged to the “Ballarat
division” of horse-trainers, didn’t long survive old
Tommy Wilson. Alec died last week, aged 72. A good,
burly, bottle-nosed little humorist, full of wise saws and
ancient instances, and a thorough master of his business
all the time. He believed in giving a nag a hard prepara-
tion for a hard run. “ If you don’t put it into ’em you
can’t get it out of ’em,” he would say ; and although he
just missed his great coup with Wait-a-Bit when Grafter
beat him by a neck for the Melbourne Cup, he managed
to get some big results from a comparatively small
number of flat racers. With Vengeance he won Caulfield
Cup in 1890, and Australian Cup the following
year. He took the long-distanoe handicap again
in 1896 with Idolator—a supposed non-stayer and
a 30 to 1 chance. In the jumping races “Tay-
lor’s selected” was always worth considering. Kestrel,
Pirate, Busaco, Dondi and others down to the time of
My Mistake ran prominently for the veteran trainer.
Sometimes his luck was cruel, notably in the case of
Colonel Shilinski. The Colonel aforesaid was Taylor’s rod
in pickle for the V.R.O. Grand National Hurdle in 1902.
Somehow the good thing got beaten by a head by the
moderate Rawdon, whereupon the old man sold the horse
to Albert Miller, and had the mortification of seeing it
win four. big stakes off the reel for its new owner.
Hardly another trainer of Taylor’s old-fashioned type
remains hereabouts. Some of his quaint sayings will
survive the memory of him. They have passed into
proverbs.
* * • *
The slump of Queensland racing. Q. Turf
Club’s three-days’ meet produced a profit of only £52,
although it was the one to which the club looked for big
returns. Prize-money totalled £2525, of which J. M'Gill,
the owner of Fitzgrafton, secured £660, and Mrs. J.
Tucker £385. Kaesen did best among jockeys with four
wins, and A. Scott and W. Stewart followed with three
each. Tote investments were £lBO4 less than last year
for first two days.
* « * *
In a Maoriland holy conference recently a
simple-minded parson made a sensation, by stating that
he had gone personally into a haunt of sin called
“Tattersall’s,” and asked a “gentleman” there if the
' totalisator was good or bad, and the “ gentleman ” had
stated frankly that it was bad, and led women to gamble.
For the moment it looked as if the tote was squelched.
Then it was whispered round that, in the town the rev.
gentleman came from, “.Tattersall’s” was a barber’s
shop,; and the man who called himself Tattersall made a
little book on the races when he wasn’t cutting hair, and
he was naturally aggravated because the tote spoiled his
business. The simple-minded reverend, when he went
and interviewed the poor little hair-cutter, really thought
he was Invading a great gambling centre and gathering
the unbiassed opinions of a leviathan of the turf.
“Allander”: Boulder Racing Club and W.A.
Turf Club committee are at outs. W.A.T.C. declines to
graiit racing dates to Boulder club the while three
stewards, whom it accuses of a large-sized offence, remain
in office. Boulder Club is maintaining a. poker-like baok,
but the resignation of one of the trio barred y
Club committee has somewhat damaged the poher P
to 9th inst. the W.A.T.O. had not granted Boulder ’ts
racing dates for the current season.
0 • *
«M L.” (Dunedin): I want to ask you some
questions about Adams’ Tattersall Consultations on
New Zealand Cup, 1903 : (1) Do you 'nd third
holders of the tickets which drew first, second and th r
prizes (Canteen, Wairiki and Achilles) in all
the New Zealand Cup? (2) Hare you noticed that all
horses that had a “ ghost of a chance ‘nthsracecame
out in a cluster (between Nos. 50,000 and 60,000)in tms
drawing ? (3) Do you know the name of the represen
tative of the Tasmanian Government ” who is supposed
to supervise the drawing of Adams sweeps? (if you
knew as much about some Tasmanian Governments as I
do you would not trust them with a plug of tobacco.)
(4) Do they get the barrel of marbles ready the evening
before the drawing, and commence the drawing in the
morning at about 8 o’clock ? (5) Is said barrel about as
long as an adult’s coffin and not a round barrel at all,
and is it true that sometimes they do not give it much of
a spin round? _ .
$ • • ■ m
“H.P.,” from Wellington (M.L.): The 35 “two-
uppers ’’ lassoed in an alleged athletic club, the Olym-
pic, referred to in Bulletin, 13/10/’O3, were each fined £2
and some shillings for being found in a common gaming
house. The alleged keeper was committed for trial, ana
on Nov. 30th the jury, after a retirement of four hours,
failed to agree. A question that has not struck the
public so far is, whether the fines of the 35 will be
refunded if the keeper is found not guilty. If the jury
thinks that he was not the keeper of a common gambling
house, then those found upon the premises were not
commonly gambling. The prosecution, anyhow, is
inconsistent, for the whole of Haining-street not a hun-
dred yards from the Olympio Club, is given over to the
slant-eyed, whose pak-a-poo and fan-tan shops are con-
ducted with glaring openness night and day.
* * * *
Billiard Referee Mannock openly state# “no
ma.n with any sense of self-respect would ever act as
referee twice in matches played between Dawson and
Stevenson." “ The former ’’ he says, “ cannot control his
temper, and the latter is the greatest all-round grumbler
the world holds.” Trouble cropped up over last match
played between Dawson and Stevenson before the latter
left England for Australia. Mannock, as referee, ruled a
certain ball, very near the baulk line, could be played,
and that decision should have been final. Stevenson
required the distance to be measured. Mannock yielded,
and result showed he was correct, but Stevenson kept on
talking even when he got to Australia.
* * * *
London Stock Exchange seems to take its
walking matches seriously. In a recent track com-
petition, Broad, the winner of the Brighton walk (which
first started the craze), was wiped out without mercy
when his pace became unfair. Has anyone ever been dis-
qualified in any of the recent flutters in Australia ? They
certainly formed an exhibition of all styles, up to the
comfortable trot. Again, after Broad had gone, one
Duke was ordered off the track by a judge, and was
ordered on again by the other two judges, who agreed
that he was fair 1 The unfortunate Duke missed
winning by rather less than the 150 yards which he lost
while being ordered off and on again. There is not one
man in a thousand who is competent to judge a walk
(and most of the other 999 will dissent from Ms decisions).
All sensible sports-promoters should steer clear of walk-
ing events.
“ * * * *
An agricultural show coincidence. On being
decorated with a first prize card a rooster at Manawatu
(M.L.) show dropped dead. Presumed that he only got
“highly commendeds” previouslj’,_and the shock killed
him. At Wanganui same week a prize ram that wag being
similary adorned glared at the card and passed in his
checks.
* • • *
The impending arrival of Major Taylor, with a
view to displaying his magnificent calves on Sydney
Cricket Ground cycling track, has started another yell
for the cutting down of local prize-money so that more
Yankee fliers may be imported to give excellent displays.
The Yankee fliers, it is explained, will not come unless
they receive big appearance-money. Then, in the name
of the Holy Kangaroo, let the accursed Yankee flier stay
away. Man cannot live by bread alone, neither will he
bike-race for honor and glory only. Even under existing
arrangements there is little enough in the game for local
riders, and this proposal that the Australian cycling clubs
and leagues should give up fostering local sport and
healthy exercise to become collecting machines to provide
substantial appearance-money for Yankee wheelmen is as
idiotic as it is unpatriotic. What is wanted is a substan-
tial increase in the local prize-money and also an increase
in the number of substantial prizes to be won. If this
were done it would serve both ends —it would encourage
the local wheelist and the Yankee dollar-hunter would
come along just the same. Extra special dollar-hunters
like Taylor might have to be paid to appear, but in view
of the increased possibilities in the shape of prize-money
they would, no doubt, be glad to accept a much smaller
fee.
• • * *
Yankee cyclist Lawson is in Westralia with his
eyes glued upon the Westral Wheel Race, to be run at
Kalgoorlie this week, and which is worth £330. Morgan
and McDonald, two of Australia’s best, are both there,
and Lawson should find it necessary to show the best that
is in him to carry off the gilded plum.
* * * *
By scooping the Austral Wheel Race, Scheps
heads the prize-winning list for the season with £4/5.
Ivor Lawson won £157 10s. . McFarland, £Bl, and
Australia’s fastest flier (Don Walker) only £6O. Altogether
there doesn’t appear to be much in being an Australian
cycling champion. Scheps is only a boy yet, just turned
19 : probably ha will go on winning bike races for a year
or two and then it will dawn on him, if he is a person of
ordinary intelligence, that there is nothing in the game
nothing to justify the premature wearing out of his boiler,
anyhow. , . . .
N S.W. National Coursing Association is much
exercised on the subject of giving stimularits to grey-
hounds to cause them to run one brilliant course for
betting purposes. When the drug has worn off backers
not in the know fall in. Doping is more prevalent in
coursing than in any other branch of sport, and a sub-corn-
mittee has recommended that nothing but beef tea, to be
procured from the secretary of the club in a sealed bottle,
be allowed. Unfortunately the doping is generally done
before the dog goes to the slips, and the only way to
block it is to have the hounds in the slip-steward s charge
for at least half-an-hour before the course is run.
* * * *
N S.W. bowling season proper opened Satur-
day, and 16 clubs engaged in first round of Pennant com-
petition. Play generally was close. Three matches
resulted in victory by one point. Worst defeat was that
of Gladstone Park by Waverley, 128 to 68 Petersham
went under to St. George. Surprise of the round was
Manly’s success over Ashfield.
* *
Sculler Jim Stanbury, 2jst. above his weight
has commenced preparing for possibilities, and will stick
to work till Towns-Tressider match is decided, when he
proposes having a cut at the winner for big money.
Most promising distance swimmer among Aus-
tralian comers is Harold Baker, just turned 15, w ho
figured at Bondi against Dick Cavill. His form was
attradtive, his pluck' and stamina beyond the Usual,
and he kept his head right through. Well looked after,
and not asked to do too much, Baker should, in a year or
two, take the place of the top-notchers of the present
time. „ .
* * *
Swimming contests have been deadly dull for
lack of rivalry! Saturday last, Dick Cavill (now married,
thou ah under 20) won the Half-mile Championship at
Bondi Club’s carnival, in 12.24 2-5 sec., over J-min. slower
than his world’s record, but only sec worse than
Joey Nuttall’s jprofessional record. Cavill could have
done better, but was content to win by 60yds. from the
next man, Baker.
• * * *
N.S.W. fighting axeman, Bill Heckenberg, is
probably out of the pug. business for ever. _ While fight-
ing Wallsend miner Squires, at Newcastle, his ankle gave
way and he had to capitulate. Referee Ford called all
bets off—which was absurd. It was a wild bumping
scrap, but only lasted three rounds.
After all, Australian missionary work among"
the aborigines has not been in vain. Dargin, who was-
“raised” on a mission station, met “Spider” Kelly at
Sydney Golden Gate last Saturday night, and although
he jarred his right and could only use his left for a con-
siderable portion of the fight, he used it to such purpose-
that half-way through the twelfth round Kelly retired,
more than satisfied. Dargin, who, so far, neither drinks
nor smokes, will now probably break up a few of the
Sydney middle-weights, but is not likely to become a
champion.
* * * *
Australian bantam pug supremacy between
Toohev and Green, at Sydney National Sporting Club last
week, was not over clever. Green, whose shoulder was-
put out in previous meeting, generally did better work,
and scored the greater number of points, but-the referee s
decision was a draw.
* * * *
Negro Ti iddleweight “Starlight,” 11.4 cham-
pion of Victoria, met Ike Stewart at Sydney Gaiety
Saturday last. Starlight pounded like a steam hammer,
but Stewart, though staggering and all but outed again-
and again, kept a bold front and kept going. In the
seventh Ike seemed thoroughly done. A right on the
jaw and a jolt near the left eye, which left him gashed,
seemed to have ended it; but he struggled through the
round, and was comparatively fresh when the gong
sounded again. During and from the 12th Stewart-
evened things up considerably, but “ Starlight ” led all the
time. In the 20th round referee declared it a draw.
Starlight’s vitality is remarkable. Now over 50, he is
infinitely more lively and a better fighter than half the
continent’s not-half-as-old bruisers. Twenty-five years-
ago he was fighting at Foley’s old White Horse
Gymnasium in George-st., Sydney, and could deal
out and avoid stoush in a remarkable manner. The old
man is to-day, in all human probability, the most-
ancient clever pug in the world.
THE OLD ENTHUSIAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I hate beyond all other bores,
The Ancient, stuffed with Record Scores,
Who squats beside me at the match
And speaks, perchance, ot Noble’s catch,
Or Foster’s cut, and tempts me thus
In foolish manner to discuss
The length and breadth of Trumper’s fame,
And cries (and makes me say the same)
That “cricket is a funny game.”
I hate the man] yet sit and smile
And babble with him all the while.
He’s fat and short, or tall and lean ;
His name, no doubt, is Brown, or Green—
That crank who notes with joy and glee
The patient play which wearies me.
In vain I pray for strength to fly ;
I cannot move, I dare not sigh—
I’m cricket-bound when he is by.
No other dullard hath the power
To hold me captive hour by hour, r
And draw from my unwilling lips
Inane remarks on drives and slips.
The secret of the Ancient’s spell
I leave to someone else to tell;
Enough for me to blush with shame
And plead the aphorism lame
That “ cricket is a funny game."
F.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
A Nib,
A Bottle of Ink,
A Sheet of Paper,
and
THE
LETTER BOOK
Mtkta a complete outfit
with which any man, wo-
man or child can write »
letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy.
From 0. Plummer, Rutland Street, Auckland, N.Z.,
Straw Hat Manufacturer, August 18, 1902.
Two months’ trial of the Pen Carbon Letter Book obtained from you has satisfied US
that your
PEN
roduce
reserve
revent
#larbon
.lean
lopies
*onfusioii
L
ETTER
egible
asting
oss and
B
OOKS
ills
right
ad Language
Tour« faithfully, 0. PLUMMER.
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
Is a True and Valued Friend.
Sole Australasian
Agents—
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
V*
to
o
H
Continental
Caoutchouc and
Cuttapercha Co.,
HANOVER
H
MAKERS OF
Continental Motor Tyres (Winners of Cordon Bennett Cap, 1803)
“Wallace” Continental Bicycle Tyres
“Wallace” Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
Total Yearly Output-NEARLY ONE MILLION TYRES.
DEPOT AT i*
Wallace Pneumatic Tyre Co.,
■»ahcheB im all states. Flinders St., Melbourne.
Makers of All Kinds of Rubber Goods, such as
STEAn HOSE
DRILL HOSE
BREWERS’ HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
SOLID SHEET
VALVES
PACKINGS
GLOVES
INSERTION SHEET
BILLIARD RUBBERS
FOOTBALL BLADDERS
RUBBER BELTING
RINGS and BANDS
PATENT TUBING
GAS TUBING
I.R. BALLS
General Agents fbr Australia
HESSELMANN & CO.
34 Queen St.,
bourne
THE BICYCLE YOU SHOULD BUY.
The 1903 Model RED BIRD BICYCLE
Built tor Speed and Strength. Every part of a RED BIRD can be duplicated. The Bearings and Ohain-
Wheels are absolutely accurate, thus the RED BIRD runs very easily and lasts for years. Cash or terms.
Second-Hand Bicycles
taken in Part Payment.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St., Sydney
SHBRPSHOOTINg
Sf For Sport and War.
ħ
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARKI
180 Pages, ioo Illustrations, 1/« nbtt. :
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IP you wish to get good work and value
B y°u should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept, on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
•■application to—
/• C. W. BUCKLAND,
817 Collins Street, Melbourne
(Greener’s Representative).
~yyE advertised last week that a Bar of
Williams’ Barbers’ Soap
Weighed "16 Honest English Ounces.”
WE WERE WRONG, and we desire to thank our
friends the Customs Authorities for putting us right.
The Collector at the Port rules that on every case
containing 100 Bars of Williams’ Shaving Soap (each
Bar being sold to our friend the Barber as A POUND
OF SIXTEEN OUNCES)
WE MUST PAY DUTY ON A WEIGHT OF lUlbs.
h
WILLIAMS’ is the only
SHAVING SOAP that pays
DUTY on a greater weight
than the Barber pays for.
THE PRICE PER BAR
REMAINS THE SAME.
As good citizens we cheerfully contribute the extra 3/6
per case to the Commonwealth Revenue. The Agents,
The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A,
rnirrn
m
Iffll
ein
laia
IEMG]
ISIE3
11 “i
cm
m
cm
in
the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
L ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,” -*Q|
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
Missing Friends.
GEORGE TOTTERDELL, last heard of
in BROKEN HILL. His mother now
living in Kalgoorlie, W.A., would like to hear
from him. All family out from England.
Address— K ALGOORLIE, WA.
CHAS GILBERT’S 1
Q
u
E
E
N
S
T
. i
A LIBERAL OFFER!
READ THIS CAREFULLY.
With the .object of still further increasing my “Mail Order” business, I
offer the following inducements:
To the customer sending the largest order (accompanied with cash)
reaching me by January 16th, I will refund half the amount of cash
received. To the customer sending the second largest order, one third ol
the cash received will he refunded. To the customer sending the
third largest order, one fourth of the cash received will he refunded.
Names and addresses of the winners will be advertised in this paper on
January 21st.
My Specialities are—" Anything in Men’s Wear and Juvenile
Clothing,” and the values talk.
Patterns, tape measure and self-measurement forms, etc., sent with
pleasure free to any address.
“Your Money’s Worth or Money Back.”
B
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
ĥ
The Australian success of the season is Out
Neto Selection, by ‘ ‘ Steele Rudd. ” Four thousand
copies were sold at 6s. in the week of publication,
and the demand continues gallantly. After that,
no one can complain of lack of local patronage tor
native authors who earn it.*
Have Ton A Liver?
It is a lucky individual who cannot answer with
certainty on this point. Those who know they
have a liver are everlastingly bemoaning the fact.
The healthy liver never makes its presence known,
but performs its functions in a most unostentatious
manner. If you know you have a liver and suffer
from the many ailments arising out of its defective
action, you cannot do better than take a course
of the world-renowned liver medicine, Bile Beans
Theespecial purpose of Bileßeans is to act directly
on the liver. They put this organ in thorough
working order, when the many minor organs
dependent upon it will receive the necessary
assistance in performing their respective functions,
and constipation, biliousness, indigestion, head-
aches, debility, and the multitude of ailments a
disordered liver sets up, will be promptly and per-
manently cured. It is only by acting directly on
the liver that these ailments can be permanently
cured. Local treatments only relieve while being
applied. The root of the trouble, defective liver
action, must be reached and rectified. Bile Beans
are obtainable from all chemists and stores, price
lsi lid. or 2s. 9d. large box. A FREE SAMPLE
BOX will be sent on receipt of a penny stamp to
cover return postage. Address the Bile Bean
Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Xmas
Greeting
to all
Cyclists
ħ
Ring Out the news
h
OUTPACE & OUTLAST
• • All Other Tyres
FOR EITHER ROAD OR TRACK RIDING.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for Twelve Months.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch (N.Z.)
N.S.W. House;
150 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
Bent and Taverner are making prepara-
tions to get from under the mess when the Irvine
Government comes down with a crash. To mem-
bers in the corridors these two loyal Ministers
openly criticise the policy and methods of the
Government When the Opposition walked out
of the chamber in a body the other night Bent was
to be seen waddling about the corridors, telling
m rnbjrs that Irvine had made a fool of himself,
and that if he ran the show it would have been
“all right.” Taverner is said to be intriguing
with David Syme to overthrow the present
Government, and create a combination of the
“moderates” to fight the Labor party and the
extreme Tories.
A North of Ireland Association has been
established in Melbourne “to bring together
respectable North of Irelanders.” Things like
that are always happening to Australia. This
tendency to bring somebody together for the pur-
pose of muttering over old world traditions is the
curse of our country. You can’t bring North of
Irelanders together without further separating
them from South of Irelanders, and then, when
the two crowds, have been sufficiently separated
they either break Australian property in their
excitement or they sacrifice Australian political
interests for the sake of their dirty old squabbles.
A Dill Macky, for instance, doesn’t necessarily
believe in Freetrade, but the sacrifice of the Aus-
tralian workman to the foreigner may help to get
into Parliament a man who will howl about the
North of Ireland, and so the Australian must be
sacrificed. This country shelters Dill, and he
sells it as cold-bloodedly as any other traitor ever
sold the land that took him in.
The attempt made at late electoral meet-
ings to introduce the professional claqueur in
Sydney does not encourge the pest to increase
and multiply. An agent submitted to leading
speakers a scheme, whereby he guaranteed to
“generate enthusiasm” in a meeting, the ardor
of the audience being determined by the amount
of the fee. Similarly he proposed to ‘ spoil a
meeting. The hiring of the necessary voices
meant money, and on that account, as well as tor
other reasons, the agent was cold-shouldered.
Candidate’s expenses are limited, and he can t
well put down “ hired applause” in his accounts.
No less than 92 Bills showed their noses
inside N.S.W. Parliament during the past session,
and of 20 that got through only eight were brought
in by Ministers in the Assembly. Sixty -1 wo were
hung up somewhere. Minister for Mines jviaci,
harmless and inoffensive to the last, had charge ot
seven Government measures, and he was not able
to Bteer a single one of them through the flood of
words regarding Bill’s dirt-money, and the
alleged improper engagement of an improver in
the dockyard. The partly-extinguished Owe-
Sullivan was down for only two, and both of them
were drowned. Even Crick lost three out of four.
Colonel Templeton, one of the Argos
candidates for the Senate:
The workmen of to-day are not equal to those of 20
years ago. And why 1 Because they think less of their
work and more of their fees.
Templeton himself thought so much of his fees
that he demanded some £20,000 more than thecourt
would allow when he was liquidator of the Premier
Permanent Building Society. And, looking at
the miserable dividend, some of the creditors
wonder if the liquidators, especially the liquidating
colonels, of to-day are equal to those of 20 years
ago.
Here is a curious combination of circum-
stances : The Chinese unionist, who is ten times
as violent a unionist as the white unionist, has at
last spanked his boss, the aggregate Chinese
cabinetmaker of Melbourne, into submission.
Under threat of being murdered and having his
house burnt, the Chinese employer has recognised
the Chinese union, put the wages back on the
old scale, announced his submission in the papers,
withdrawn all charges of assault and battery
against his employee, and has propitiated Joss.
Now, the most ferocious white unionist never
assaulted Derham and insisted that he should
give up the Christian faith and turn idolator in
addition to raising wages. Yet Derham and his
Tory friends perpetually hold up the murderous
Chinese unionist as a model, and want to import
him in large numbers.


N.
is
f ’ i
j
k
ĥ
'Twas Havelock saved the Flag—a page
That stirred old Hearts of Oak;
'Tis “HAVELOCK” comes once more—a leaf
We all delight to smoke.
Of pare Virginian growth, to all
The virtues it's akin;
And each tobacconist there is
Will sell it, plug or tin.
DIGESTION AND ASSIMILATION.
It is not the quantity of food taken, but the
amount digested and assimilated that gives
strength and vitality to the system. CHAMBER-
LAIN’S STOMACH AND LIVER TABLETS
invigorate the stomach and liver, and enable them
to perform their functions. The result is a relish
for your food, increased strength and weight,
greater endurance and a clearer head. Chamber-
lain’s Stomach And Liver Tablets are “Just
What You Need.”*
“ C.P.” : In view of the wave of indig-
nation which has swept over Australia as a result
of the treatment of the poor Malay shipwrecked
sailors, I have a suggestion to prevent a repetition
of the disgraceful occurrence. I know it ivas a
disgraceful occurrence, because I saw it in the
Freetrade organs. My proposal is that in future,
when niggers intend being shipwrecked on the
Victorian coast, they should be compelled to give at
least a fortnight’s notice, so that arrangements for
their entertainment might be properly made. A
guard of honor, headed by Major-General Hutton
and the State commandants, could then meet
them at Port Melbourne and conduct them to an
official welcome by the Governor-General, The
roads might be suitably festooned with flags, a
few arches el ected, and the city illuminated in the
evening. Afterwards one of the Malays might be
billeted on each foreign - trade editor and each
cheap-labor parson. All those willing to subscribe
amounts of £lOO and over for this purpose will
kindly forward same to me immediately, and the
money will be paid into the Yana Bank.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
THE
“LONDON
ħ
42/- TO ORDER.
SMART
CLOTHES
For Summer are what we are showing—they are
the best and dressiest that it is possible to make.
There must be extraordinary merit in these
“LONDON” 42/- SUITS
to have gained the reputation they have among
smartly-dressed men for style and quality of
material. We guarantee a perfect fit if you send
for one of our Measurement Forms, together with
a selection of Patterns —Post Free.
LONDON TAILORING
DEPOT,
OPP. G.P.0., fIELBOURNE
(ONLY ADDRESS IN THE STATES).
PURE LIME-FRUIT JUICE
DO you DRINK LIME JUICE ?
h
i
cordial
THEN DWiNK TOE BEST'
Agents— Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
DEAFNESS
AND
Head Noises
Cured.
A SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERY.
Unimpeachable Evidence and Genuine Proofs. NO EAR-
DRUMS. NO OPERATION. No Mechanical Contrivance
used. CONSULTATIONS FREE. Write or Call to the
MILLSOM AGENCY :
36 Carrington Street,
Wynyard Square, Sydney
Eureema Ointment.
A Special Cure for ECZEMA and other
SKIM DISEASES.
Splendid testimonials held. In jars, 2s. and 3s. 6d. If
your chemist does not keep it send 2d. for free sample
and full particulars to
HARDEN & CO., Agents for Australia,
34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WE
WILL CURE
YOUR
ASTHMA
OR RETURN
YOUR
MONEY
LANE’S ASTHMA
Has been pronounced by “ The United
Reports,” the official authority on sanitary
me only scientific remedy for this disease
medical profession. It is
CURE
States Health
subjects, to be
i known to the
GUARANTEED TO CURE EYERY CASE
of Spasmodic Asthma or Bronchial Asthma and we give a
printed and signed guarantee to refund the purchase
money of the Cure in full if it fails to cure. ~,
Send for particulars and a copy of the guarantee, we will
post them to any address without charge.
The Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dr. Ricord’s Marvellous Medicine
ĥ
CURES PILES
Bleeding, Itching, &c.
Skin and Blood Diseases.
Write for Free Booklets.
h
Si- Bottle; Postage 1/■
Agents:— Formont & Co., 51 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Sub-Agents
J Beddome & Co.,Bourke Street, Melbourne.
1 Faulding & Co., Sydney, Adelaide, Perth.
References throughout Great Britain and Celenit9»
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
l produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life madle enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. " e nave
treated over 52,000 ABthma and Hay Fever pat'.enta es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c postFKBJb.
Address: Dr P. Harold Hayes’Asthmatic Institute.
Buffalo, N. Y„ U. S. A.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11 -.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYEES, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
“R.A.K.” : Saw a crowd gathered around
a respectably-dressed girl on the Hospital corner
of Russell-street, Melbourne. She was as white as
a sheet and was tottering around in a curious
manner, but it wasn’t drink Asked a bystander
what was the matter. He said casually he sup-
posed she’d just had a chloroform operation at the
hospital and hadn’t got over the effects of the
drug yet. The Kyabram Government economises
so much now that the hospital has to throw its
patients out promptly to save wear and tear of the
premises.
The committee of the Melbourne Benevo-
lent Asylum has finally decided not to commit
the “ illegal ” action of refunding a trifle of the
late Hingston’s money for the purpose of main-
taining a tombstone over his grave in England.
James Hingston bequeathed £27,000 to the “ Bene-
volent,” but forgot to provide a proper endow-
ment for his own damp asylum, where he sleeps
with his fathers. A sentimental solicitor wrote
several letters from England, suggesting that the
Benevolent, as principal legatee, might as well
strain its bye-laws by voting a £lOO donation to
its benefactor’s memory. The far-off attorney
reckoned without regard for the notorious
scrupulousness of Melbourne’s public institutions
in all money matters. The Benevolent consulted
its own solicitor, and was advised to preserve its
conscience pure and undefiled. So Hingston’s
gravestone can rip. The question is settled.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound! that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? It so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on Buffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are 6wollen;*the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the diseass
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for 1 CAN
CUKE YOU. 1 don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Ecndatonce for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and ITLLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles. Poisoned
llands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, aud Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
*cc. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per b'X. Prepared by
ALBERT', 73, Farringdun-etreet, London, England.
Agents •• KLLIOTT BltOs., Sydney. Purchasers should
look lot the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green label on each box. (Reid, cohyrigb‘l.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
casesin six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 2S, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
A NEW BOOK on BREATHING.
By F. Matthias Alexander (who has imparted his new methods for 10 years in Australasia).
See Bulletin, December 17, for Full Particulars and Order Form. Only sufficient c.opies to be printed to
supply orders received. Read article on “ Prevention and Cure of Consumption” in Sydney Daily
Telegraph, Saturday, December 12, page 16, by the author. Address—
ROYAL CHAHBERS, corner HUNTER & CASTLEREAGH STS, SYDNEY.
m
©
Concerning Elgin Watches
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES: '
GENTS.’—4OB, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents: SWIFT & GRICE,
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
KELLY
The Host Successful American
Traction Engine made.
Traction Engines.
Fitted with Two (2) Speeds and
Steel Gearing: throughout.
Lists and Particulars FREE on application to the SOLE AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND:
CLARK & FAUSET, Eagle St., Brisbane.
DRIIMK in—
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) &at Helidon.
TARPAULINS,
CART, WAGGON and
MACHINERY
COVERS.
Canvas
Cotton Duck
Patent
Waterproof
Cloth.
ALL HAND-SEWN.
-fta
'.I t.V’
AT SPOT CASH
PRICES.
Estimates Sent by
Return Post.
SEND FOE LIST.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd.,
7 & 9 HARKET STREET,
SYDWET 1 .
Sweet Tablets.
Simply Eaten.
2 TABLETS A DOSE.
Pleasant to take.
Always Efficacious.
ĥ
NATURES Om REMEDY.
A TASTELESS g PAIWLESS APERIENT. I
MADE FROM ,e
Fresh FbU |T >
herbs
FOR CHILDREN AND ADULTS.!
Highly
Recommended
by LEADING
MEDICAL MEN.
One WELL-KNOWN DOCTOR
writes thus : “ The action of
Golden Frutex is as sure as
the sun will rise.”
Absolutely the BEST REMEDY for Stomach, Liver and Kidney Troubles.
Good for INFANTS and AGED alike. !
A Splendid ANTIDOTE for SEA-SICKNESS.
Obtainable Everywhere—Box, 20 Tablets, Is. 6d
ħ
™ E CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
is equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME.
THOUSANDS CLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT I
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
being used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30,- to 84K
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
I, Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd. (Dept. 8}
|i(Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Klizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The conservative craze for reducing wages
in Australia began as early as June, 1804, when
Governor Collins, of Tasmania, appointed a board
to sit, one Sunday, after church service, to lower
the rates for day labor. The new prices were
promulgated by General Order.
WE RUN ALL RISKS
when we tell you to use Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy. It is effective, instantly relieves, and
promptly cures. If you are not satisfied after
using two-thirds of a bottle according to directions,
return what is left and have your money re-
funded.*
REYNOLDS’S
NEWSPAPER
FOR ARTICLES ON
Labor and Wages and Labor Disputes.
MOTTO: Government of the People, by
the People, for the People.
PRICE- ONE PENNY WEEKLY.
JOHN DICKS, Effingham House, Arundel-street,
London, Eng.
A RECORD SUCCESS.
A RECORD SUCCESS.
Allan's Christmas Magazine, No. 8
Allan's Christmas Magazine, No. 8
Allan's Christmas Magazine, No. 8
THE Biggest and Best Shilling Annual ever pro-
duced in Australia, containing 13 Songs of
popular and intrinsic merit. Every home in
Australia should have one of these Music Books.
There is not one poor song among them, and we do
not use padding.
READ THE CONTENTS,
then send us 1/2 in Stamps or Postal Order, and we
will deliver the book at your door.
Melbourne ft
US I CAL
AGAZINE V
No « CONTENTS, w»
1 m*h Butterfly 1
2My Daodys a Gentleman ■ • *
3 Oh; That we Two were Mayino • IE
4My Dainty Black Bird • • • 6
5 Kathleen Mavourneen • s
6 Alice, where art Thou ? -17
7 The Cockney Picoaninnies Serenade is
a By Order of the T6ar • • • ao
9 by the Silver Sea • aa
10 Silver and Gold * • • a«
11 all Earthly Ties • • ’as
12 the leoturer ... as
13 The Sweetest Irish Music so
ONE SHILLING.
Sent Post Free Anywhere for 1/2.
On Sale by All Our Agents, or from
the Publishers direct ....
ALLAN & CO.
276-278 Collins Street
nELBOURNE.
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
h
We Ship on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
;.I« £2-10 to £5-5-0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia .
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres , Accessories, Sporting Goods
and Sewing Machines Half Usual
LPrices. Write for Catalogues and
Special Offer using sufficient for-
eign postage. Address Dept 339-B
MEAD CYCLE CO,
CHICAGO
U. S. A.
64
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O. ELDRIDGE & OO
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ASTHMA CURE
GRiMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatlo peojtlo who BUder from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and PIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes roiidcr the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, aud remove the
feeling of tightness across the cnost.
GRIM AULT * Co., Parle. Bold by aUOkimUts.
No Australian takes his politics more
seriously than the bush digger. Up in far-north
Flinders, for instance, the men on Leichhardt
wanted to vote for M‘Donald, but the Philp crowd
wouldn’t declare Leichhardt a polling-place. The
nearest polling-place was over 90 miles away, but
that didn’t atop them —they got horses, rode in,
voted, and not a claim was touched till the job
was finished and M‘Donald was elected.
• It is just as well N.S.W. Parliament shut
its disorderly house for a while :
Mr. Perry : It is not so !
Mr. J. O." L. Fitzpatrick : It is so !
Mr. Perry : It is a lie !
Mr. J. 0. L. Fitzpatrick : It is not a lie !
Mr. Perry : It is a lie !
Mr. J. 0. L. Fitzpatrick : I rise to order.
The Chairman : The hon. member ought not to have
interrupted.
Mr. J. C. L. Fitzpatrick : I object to the Minister saying
“ It is a lie” !
Members should study the evils of ruffianly
language during the recess.
He the difficulty of regulating the bonus on
white-grown sugar. A certain Kanaka in a S.Q.
sugar district is married to a white woman.
Tanna, his wife, and a white employee do all the
work on a small sugar farm. Hence the Poly-
nesian argues that he is entitled to the bonus as
employing only white labor. Bonus, however,
was refused, as the authorities held that Tanna
employed himself also, and consequently had no
right to the bonus. In another case, a white man
had married a white girl who was burdened with
a boy of some 1,3 or 14 years—an illegitimate,
semi-Polynesian son. White cocky aforesaid
employed his wife’s dusky offspring in the cane,
and applied for bonus. The bonus Was, naturally,
refused. Hereupon the sugar farmer hunted the
boy out of the place, and refused to allow him
near his mother. And these things occurred in a
country where respectable journals used to assert
there was no danger of racial contamination.
“ H.” : One more item in the Victor! m
Government’s record of treachery to railway em-
ployees. Some time ago M‘Donald, M.L.A.,
drew attention in the House to the fact that the
railway employees worked 12 hours on Sundav
and did not get paid for it. Of course, Shiels
denied it, but immediately issued an order that
Sunday time was no longer to.be worked without
pay. Now, the men in this overmanned (?) service
have been working overtime and getting time off
without pay for it. In other words, a man does
10 hours extra work without pay, and in com-
pensation is allowed 10 hours off without pay. So
a new order directs that if a man has worked five
days overtime and five, days Sunday time, and has
wor red off the overtime, it is to be reckoned that
he has worked off the Sunday time. He is still
not paid for the Sunday time. The only differ-
ence is that he doesn’t, because he worked a
Sunday without pay, get knocked off duty with-
out pay on a week day., To put it another way,
instead of working, six days and being paid for
five, he works seven days and is paid for six.
“ Harrie N.” writes from Brisbane :
I attended a number of the women’s political meetings
in Brisbane, and enjoyed myself greatly, especially
where the scented Tory dames were gathered together.
They have a very faint knowledge of politics, but they
speak in nicely-chosen language, and never mention by
name any of the ladies who hold opposite views.
“ Socialism” and “socialistic” are words which are
introduced at every meeting. The capitalistic ladies at
first had an idea that a “socialist” was a dangerous
person who held similar theories to Guy Fawkes, and
carried infernal machines about on his person ; but they
were so twitted on their ignorance that they began to try
to find out something about the cult, and this is how one
of their leading orators explained it the other
day. “If I work hard on one of my nicely-kept and
productive farms, and my nearest neighbor does absolutely
nothing but loaf in a hovel, according to socialistic
theories I am supposed to let him have a share of my
profits.” When the same lady further said that no intel-
ligent newspaper ever advocated even a small measure of
socialism, I ventured to lift up a small, weak voice and
remark that The Bulletin was slightly socialistic in its
principles, but the large, fat finger of scorn was pointed
at me, and a voice, shaking with emotion, informed the
meeting that everyone who read your “vile” paper was
immoral; that you had no respect for women, which was
not to be wondered at, as you never had a mother, but
were born of the Devil, and placed on this earth for the
express purpose of leading “myriads” of souls to
destruction. Now, I have had the pleasure of gazing
upon some of you, and my impression was that you were
a mild-mannered, hen-pecked sort of a man. Is it really
true. that your chief component is brimstone, and that a
tail is coiled up beneath the editorial chair?
A great truth, by “ L.W.” :
The Fall of the United States of America may be
expected any day now, that free and glorious land of
unrestricted private enterprise having compelled the
Oceanic S.S. Co. to return to Auckland from San Fran-
cisco a young man named Kenneth Harper who went to
the Golden Gate to join a bank staff. The benighted
U.S.A. regarded him as a contract laborer. The Six
Hatters were only compelled to remain on board till cer-
tain formalities were gone through. Perhaps by this
time the Deakin Cabinet recognises that it might as well
have enforced the law ; the Freetrade-and-Unrestricted-
Competition-for-the-other-Fellow crowd could have made
no more row if the Six Blathers had been sent back to
England, and the other side would have had something to
be thankful for. So far there has been no exclusion ; all
the disputed immigrants have been admitted after slight
delay. There’s a sad lack of thoroughness about Aus-
tralian politicians just now, The Freetraders admit they
don’t intend to be thorough, and asked for power
because they were thoroughly determined not to be
thorough .The Deakin crowd has never once been
thorough, enough it has never boasted of its lack of that
quality like the Dry Dog crowd. Australian political
history is choked with the wrecks of the men who
perished because they hadn’t the grit or the energy to
act up to their own alleged beliefs.
A recent Bulletin par.
stated that the refusal of M.L. House of Reps,
(by 43 votes to 19) to give absolute preference to
unionists was a good deal misunderstood. The
par. went on to correctly point out that in the
vast majority of cases already decided by the
M.L. Arbitration Court preference to unionists
had been stipulated for. Let me say, however,
that the present brand of preference gives poor
results, there being many non-unionists employed
in all the trades, receiving the full wage fought
for and gained by the unionists, but contributing
nothing to the union funds. Employers do dis-
criminate against union men on occasion, and
they will continue to do so until absolute prefer-
ence is ordered by the court; and the unions are
well advised to fight for it as they are now doing.
Only a week ago a Wellington bookbinder told
the Arbitration Court that he considered the
previous granting of preference (ordinary brand)
put no obligation on him to inquire, when
engaging a new man, if he was a member of the
union.
“ Maori ” : I don’t think either Soddon or
the Beer party was glad that the Licensing Bill
was killed. They had figured it out that a couple
of years of absolute prohibition in the districts
that carried “no license” at the last election
would effectually settle the question for ever; and
perhaps it would. That the Bill did not get
through was no fault of Seddon’s; but members
were simply swamped with telegrams from con-
stituents daring them to vote for it, and they
didn’t dare. Instead of the defeat of the Bill
being a triumph for Richard, it was a defeat, and
an evidence of the power of the prohibitionists (?)
in this country.
The hanging-up of Waddell’s Liquor Bill
saved a Cabinet disruption in N.S.’W. Fegan
and Kidd on one side and Crick and O’Sullivan
on tlie other were dangerous rocks to steer
between. Waddell’s promised but-of-Parliament
discourse won’t amount to anything. It will be
treated by the Cabinet as np.n-official, ns was
his Cowra financial speech. Liquor legisla-
tion which attempts to satisfy vested inte-
rests, and the public, and the zealots of two
factions, will only rouse all to enmity. The Bill,
to do good, must begin with a principle. Finding
interests so clashing and opinions so various, the
State must assert its right to take the traffic over
and accept responsibility.
The “Empire Navy League” is abso-
lutely the deadest “ movement ’’ that ever refused
to move in Australia. Even the promoters have
about given it up as a bad job, and the biggest
part of the space in the dozen lines which the
daily papers now give to its meetings is devoted
to weeps about lack of support.


The Bulletin learns with regret that some
verses recently printed in its columns over a
well known Australian signature had previously
appeared in another publication over quite a
different signature. The natural assumption is
tUat The Bulletin was taken in by an unscru-
pulous literary thief, and that, in getting payment
for the verses, the person who offered them obtained
The Bulletin’s money under false pretences.
The necessity for criminally prosecuting people
who do this kind of thing, and landing them m a
suitable gaol, will some day force itself on Aus-
tralian editors. Only the tiredness inseparable
from the climate has prevented The Bulletin
from doing so already, and in this case the
management is seriously thinking of some such
action.
That something would happen at the
Elections was clear from the fact that the electors
oiled their thinking machinery with D.C.L.
Whisky to a remarkable extent. Tne week s out-
put of D.O.L. rose to the importance of the
occasion. What happens to a country which
strengthens its ideas with that best of whiskies is
shown by Maoriland, where the consumption of
1).C.L., progressive legislation and increased
prosperity march together. Long may they
march.*
A new method has taken possession of Sydney
society. Formerly it was the mode to entertain at one’s
own home. Now the thing is to do it at The Hotel
Australia.*
Flying farewell visit
OF
WIRTH BROS.’
COMPLETE UP-TO-DATE
CIRCUS AND TRAVELLING ZOO.
OPENING IN MELBOURNE ON BOXING DAY,
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 26, at 3 o’clock.
TWO WEEKS ONLY.
TWO SHOWS DAILY.
LOCATION—JUST OVER PRINCES BRIDGE.
IN COOL GREEN TENTS.
A Gigantic Show Teeming with Novelties.
Australia’s Oldest, Grandest and Most Travelled Circus
and Managerie, Founded in Svdney, January, 1880.
Nearly a Quarter of a Century of Travel and Experience
in Every Land and Clime.
Been Everywhere, Seen Everything , and Got Every
thing Worth Having
Mistress: Never use any Soap
for the children except
WRIGHT’S
COAL TAR
SOAP.
Nurse: of course not, ma’am*
THE NURSERY SOAP
Summer Sensations by the Sea.
ii
*
Steyne Court, MANLY*
Open Early in December.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES - TOBOGGANING
AND DON’T FORGET
THE FIERY DRAGON.
Ogilvie’s new book, Hearts of Gold and other
Verses, has taken it’s place as a popular favourite.
In handsome cloth, illustrated, this is iust the
■charming volume required for a Christmas gift.
Price 4s. 6d., from all booksellers.*
Amusements.
«|*HE NEW HER
MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee & Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
lEvery Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 3.
BOXING NIGHT, DECEMBER 26,
Mr. TREE’S COMPANY,
including
{MISS MAUD JEFFRIES and MR. JULIUB KNIGHT,
and First Production in Sydney of
MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE.
©ox Plan at Paling’s. S3T PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
;Sole Lessee and Manager .. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
BOXING NIGHT, DECEMBER 26,
IFirst Production in Australia of the Intensely Exciting
Drama,
WHY WOMAN SINS.
©resented by the CHARLES HOLLOWAY DRAMATIC CO
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
HEAT R E ROYAL, SYDN E Y.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 8. Wed. and Sat. Afternoon, at 2.
BOXING NIGHT, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 26,
GRAND XMAS PRODUCTION,
entitled,
SLEEPING BEAUTY AND THE BEAST,
or Mother Goose and the Seven Champions.
Box Plan at Paling’s. t&8" PRICES AS USUAL.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
BOXING NIGHT, DECEMBER 26,
AND EVERY EVENING, _
Grand Production, for the First Time in Australia, of the
Enormously Successful London Adelphi Drama,
THE GREAT WORLD OF LONDON.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse; George Street.
QUEE N’S HALL, SYDNEY.
BOXING NIGHT, DECEMBER 26,
MR. HERBERT FLEMMING presents
MEL. B. SPURR,
ENGLAND’S GREATEST SOCIETY ENTERTAINER,
«« Beyond any reasonable scepticism Mr. Spurr is the
most gifted and the most refined Monologue Entertainer
heard in Melbourne.”
the MUTOS C 0 P E.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
»d OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels.
Admission FREE.
o
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Splendid Success of THE CIRNOCS.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN.
Enthusiastic Reception of MISS JENNY GREY.
MISS MAUD FANING, absolutely the Best Coon
Impersonator ever seen in Australia.
MR. J. W. WINTON.
THE MICRO-BIOSCOPE.
Mr. ERNEST FITTS, Mr. EDWARD FORD.
Miss NITA LEETE, Mr. ERNEST SULLIVAN,
Mr. LES WHARTON, and all our Great Co.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
First Appearance in Australia of the Beautiful Miss
VULCANA, Holder of All World’s Records, and
ATLAS, the World-Renowned Athlete.
MISS RAY JONES. THE COLLIERS. LAL LOGIE.
DAISY SYLVESTER, PARISIAN BELLES, FLORRIE
RANGER, ALBERTO, ELLA WELLINGTON, ROBERT
NEEDHAM, IRVING SAYLES.
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietor Mr. Harry Rickards.
GREAT SACRED CONCERT,
CHRISTMAS NIGHT, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 25,
THE STORY OF REBEKAH.
SACRED SONGS. LEADING ARTISTES.
Under the Direction of E. NAPOLEON-BOFFARD.
PRICE'S—3s., 2s-, and One Shilling.
JOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
GREAT HOLIDAY ENTERTAINMENT,
SATURDAY, BOXING DAY, DECEMBER 26.
BALLADS, ILLUSTRATED SONGS.
ROYAL BIOSCOPE of MR. A. GUNN.
FANCY DANCES BY MR. W. GREEN’S PUPILS.
Under the Direction of E. NAPOLEON-BOFFARD.
TWO and ONE SHILLING.
Her majesty’s theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. W illiamson.
BOXING NIGHT, DECEMBER 26,
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
will present for the first time in Melbourne,
A COUNTRY GIRL,
by J. T. Tanner.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee Mr. , Bland Holt -
Business Manager .. .. .. C. Simonsens.
BOXING NIGHT, DECEMBER 26,
BLAND HOLT’S DRAMATIC COMPANY in
AN AUSTRALIAN ANECDOTE, Entitled,
A DESPERATE GAME,
For the First Time in Melbourne.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
BOXING NIGHT, DECEMBER 26,
Return of Mr. GEORGE MUSCROVE’S GRAND ENGLISH
SHAKESPEARIAN COMPANY in
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
ggtJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE;
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Mr. TOM PERMAK.
Commencing,
BOXINO NIGHT, DECEMBER 26,
Magnificent Spectacular Comedy XMAS PANTOMIME
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Westralia Waihi (W.A.) is one of those mines
regarding whose management the less said the better.
When the co. was floated nearly three years ago it was
stated that there was an Bft. payable lode m No. I.shaft.
An inspection failed to disclose such a lode. In the
recently published halLyearly report it is stated that, in
crosscutting at the 110 ft. level from No. 1 shaft, four
quartz reefs had been encountered asfollows .No 1, Btt.
wide, worth loz. ; No. 2,3 ft., worth 30z.; No. 3,3 ft.,
worth lOdwt.; and No. 4,7 ft., worth loz Since that
was written the manager reports that the last-mentionea
reef, which he calls No. 3, is of very Kreat width and
worth 15dwt. Property consists of a diorite hill traversed
by numerous quartz leaders, some of which are very rich.
These leaders trend more or less north and south, and
underlie most erratically, some east, some west. When the
co. was floated it was stated that it would practically
be a paving proposition from the jump; but it is not
visibly nearer paying now than it was three years ago.
No stone has been developed, and there is no water-
supply on the property or in the district.
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) will start crushing
after the holidays with its new heavy stamps, which are
estimated to treat half as much again as the old mill.
The crosscut from 534 ft. level has still about 80ft. to go to
cut the eastern lode, and 150 ft. to cut the western. To
expedite matters, a crosscut from the bottom of tne
winze on the latter lode is being driven. When this is
complete there will he another 140 ft. of ‘ backs of rich
ore to work. Manager Ferguson is satisfied with the
appearance of the mine, but is not permitted to push on
with developments. Apparently the ore in sight was
over-estimated when the new stamps were ordered.
During the coming year the co. should have a successful
run as No. 7 level is ready for stoping, and ore from there
will be available when the crosscut is completed, which
should be early in February at recent rate of progress.
* * * *
Lancefield, Laverton (W.A.), which was under
option to Bewick, Moreing and Co. about a year ago,
and rejected, has now been acquired by that firm. Ihe
price paid is said to have been £50,000 cash, which can t
be considered extravagant. A local syndicate, originally
in 360 shares, afterwards increased to 21,600, has workea
the property very successfully for some years, and paid
monthly divs. of £360. All the work done has been
above 200 ft., at which depth the lode is 26ft. wide. One
level is 900 ft. long, and right through has produced
battery stone worth Bdwt. for a width of 18ft.
Horton and party, the original prospectors, have done
well, as, in addition to paying divs., all the equipment,
including mill and cyanide plant, has been paid for out
of gold won. The building of the railway to Laverton
vastly improves the prospects of the mine ; but, unless it
is worked on a very large scale, the ore is too low-grade
to earn any extravagant profits. £360 a month wouldn t
cover J. Bull’s cables and extras.
• • • •
St. George, Lake Darlot (W.A.), has cleaned up
40 tons for 1120 oz. Since the prospectors started, some
18 months ago, they have taken out 144 tons for 52440 z.,
worth about £20,000. The leader from which this gold
was won may possibly be the source of the enormously
rich alluvial which, in the early days, made Darlot
famous. , , * •
Harriston, Mt. Malcolm (W.A.), a show
recently pegged out on behalf of a local syndicate, is
proving good. The first clean-up of 147 tons yielded
1088 oz. worth £4OOO. On the strength of this a div. of
£5O a share has been declared to the 60 shareholders. A
good deal may be heard of this concern soon, as the
initial crushing was broken out in a very short time.
* * * *
Bellevue Consols, Mt. Sir Samuel (W.A.), is
tipped as one of the best things outside of Kalgoorlie
The co. is in 400,000 shares, and, on its reconstruction, 18
months ago, had a working capital of £70,000. A new
main shaft is being sunk, and is down 250 ft. A 20-head
mill has been treating about 2000 tons monthly for about
1600 oz. for the past three years, and a huge accumulation
of tailings, estimated at sdwt. per ton, awaits treat-
ment. The mine is now being equipped with a 40-head
mill, which will start early in the new year, and the co.
will probably become a div. payer. The working costs at
present tot up 625. a ton, but of this 245. 9d. goes in
development and 11s. lOd. in plant, owing to sinking the
new shaft and erecting the new mill. The co. is now
controlled by Bewick, Moreing and 00., who have recently
acquired the knack of making things hum.
9 * • *
Associated, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is being vigor-
ously handled, and large divs. should be forthcoming in
the near future. The main shaft is being carried down
to 1600 ft. at full speed, and developments at IOOOit.
are also being pushed ahead. The north and east
sections of the property are practically virgin, and,
iudging from adjoining properties, these are promising
spots. On the east, the North Boulder worked out all
the ore in its ground till the lode dipped into the Asso-
dated, and won nearly 40,0000 z. of gold from 30,000 tons
of ore This was from the Brown Hill-Oroya lode, and it
looks as if a second rich chute started in the North Boul-
der ground, and its continuation should he found in the
Associated. In the north section it is now practically
certain that the bonanza chute from the Oroya will be
found, and will vastly improve the prospects of the co.
On working out a lens of ore, no attempt used to be
made to trace the indicator to a new lens, and it is now
anticipated that fresh makes of pay ore will be found on
the upper levels. To facilitate this work a new 20-head
mill will soon be jigging on the low-grade ore,
and in breaking this down, it is expected that
fresh rich lenses will be discovered. There is a large
accumulation of tailings to be re-treated, as the extrac-
tion, instead of being 90 per cent., as alleged was only
about 70 per cent., and up to 6 or 7dwt. was left in the
residues, which will all be re-treated.
* * * *
Chaffers, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), which has long
been under a cloud, has recently been showing some
revival on the strength of an alleged development. A lot
of people, who were loaded up with scrip at high prices,
are no doubt, anxious to see the stock boom. The South
Fin'gall, which was promoted by Chaffers, has evidently
been abandoned as hopeless, as the leases were recently
forfeited for the non-fulfilment of labor conditions.
• • • •
“The Nondescript”: At Ngawha (Ohaeawai,
North Maoriland) there are plenty of traces of quicksilver,
both cinnabar and native. The M.L. mining boom
of ’96-7 induced a local Bung (good old public bene-
factor Bung) to subsidise a couple of miners, at the time
ffum digging, to prospect the Hot Springs, and he made
generous promises in the event of a find. As a result a
combine took over the show and started operations with
two furnaces (four retorts) with a capacity of 30 tons a
week. The much-lettered imported manager took a trip
to New Mexico to study processes, and on his return
easily out-distanced the only other man on the claim who
had seen a retort before—an ex-stoker from the Auckland
gas works. It was a fearsome spectacle to see the hands
*• clean-up.” Something seemed to go wrong with the
distillation, for the quicksilver (which was undoubtedly m
the dirt) failed to materialise; perhaps it was used to
form a lining for the dark clouds which were gathering
fast in the financial atmosphere of Bung. This person
tried to get out of his agreement, for, after lengthy
litigation, he filed his schedule. The cast-iron
retorts were worn out in a month or two. The
lode or deposit, either ran out or was non-existent, and
after expending some £5OOO the only tangible results are
half-a-dozen chronic invalids, one cemetery allotment in
a bankrupt publican. #
An out-of-the-way sorb of market, that for
wild beasts, is just now suffering from severe depression.
A Straits Settlements dealer puts it in figures thus:
Twenty Years Ago .. Now
Flenhants (young) .. • • £4OO .. £l2O to £l5O
Elephants lyoung; 3Q() to £m 20 25
as" •• •• i OO - r %.
Wnlves .. •• •• 6 »» ® A lua *
Hyenas (spotted) .. ..40 .. 40
„ (striped) 40 * ” *
Anrovos recent comments anent Australians
Aprop West Coast of Africa, the following are
extracts from let ”rreceived trom , raining roan,
P fJ/hJ whole trip ; the first day being across the
through volcanic country, the train passing close
under two smoking craters, San Pedro apd Ollague, botn
about 21,000 ft. high. The third day is across the great
Bolivian plateau 12,000 ft. altitude to Oruro, which is
12,400 ft. The train is like a little toy, 2ft. 6m. gauge.
One feels the rarity of the atmosphere a good deal at
first. Fat men feel it most; some get “ mountain sick-
ness ” the first time they come, and are on their backs for
a fortnight. If one’s heart is weak, it is a case of first
train down again, and in any case one cannot take any
violent exercise at all here. Climate is nice in the .day-
time, just like Queensland winter, but very cold at night,
though it is a dry cold one doesn’t notice much. Oruro
has 14,000 inhabitants, mostly Indians, and is about as big
as an English town of 4000. There are about 60 English-
men in town and district, also a few Germans, Americans
and others. Bolivians are a cross between the old
Spaniards and Indians, and are in appearance like botn.
The town has narrow streets, very dirty, no drainage at
all, and, as the population is mainly Indian, with habits
—well, somewhat peculiar—l can leave much to your
imagination. The streets are full of dogs, which spend
their time fighting in mobs, and although fleas can t live
at this altitude, there are other things. People, English
anyway, spend their spare moments in drinking, [always
thought Australia was all right in this respect, but this
place fairly beats anything I ever imagined. Mining is
the main support of the district-principally tin, also a
little silver, though that was formerly the principal
branch. Tin is very rich, and the mines are paying
enormously. This country is, I believe, absolutely the
richest, minerally speaking, in the world, every kind of
metal being found, but on account of the difficulties of
transport (coal costs £8 per ton wholesale in Oruro), and
the fact that there is no timber here (too high), and costs
Is. per superficial foot, the expenses are too great at pre-
sent There is one property with seven lodes, each about
4ft. wide, assaying all through 20 per cent, copper, ioz.
gold, and 30oz. silver, yet they cannot be profitably
worked. I wish I were back in Queensland.’
• • * *
Reported that “a nugget of pure copper con-
taining 11 cubic feet of the metal and weighing four
tons has been found in the bed of a small stream running
into the Kuskalina River, Alaska, about 120 miles from
tide water." * . •
* • * *
Do Beers, which owns so much of the body and
soul of S’Africa, is still by far the wealthiest mining co.
in the world. At the annual meeting, held the other
dav at Kimberley, it was shown that the year s diamonds
had brought £5,241,173, while the total working expenses
were £1,703,130 ; and, after allowing for depreciation
f£738.161). redemption of debentures, &c., the profit was
£2,302,299. Besides this, about £120,000 was realised
from investments. The dividends totalled £2,176,000.
So “scientifically” has this huge co. “ worked the
diamond market that, notwithstanding its great produc-
tion (the De Beers alone turns out more now than the
world did 20 years ago), the average value per carat has
in that time been forced up from 225. Bd. to 425. sd.
• • * •
One man, anyway, comes back from England
to say that the yarn that the Westralian Arbitration Act
is scaring investors off that market is plain lie. ” was
felt ” says G. W. Hall, who was m the thick of pie Wes-
tral’ian boom and represented several Bull co. s, that
some of the awards made on the Northern fields were un-
iust, but the general opinion is that the principle of the
Act is good; and the feeling towards W.A. has been
greatly improved by the conviction that its mines can be
worked as cheaply as those of S’Africa, where th.e grade
of the ore is generally lower.”
• • * .
A British weekly thus mixes up the Coolgardie
miner, spinifex, and other things ; “ In the early days of
Coolgardie, the miners underwent extraordinary hard-
ships'amongst the spinifex bushes, where the gold mostly
grew. The sharp spikes of the bushes used to play havoc
with their hands, until the introduction of leather
gauntlets. A miner’s chances in the spinifex desert are
extremely precarious. He may be working on a good
patch one day, and perhaps during the night a willy-
willy may spring up. Should the sand storm be at
heavy, the unlucky gold gatherer wakes up next morning
to the fact that his particular spinifex bush is covered
over with sand hundreds of feet high. The only thing
he can do then is to lie down and pray for another willy-
willy to blow in the opposite direction.”
At Poverty Point.
SES*3E9fiaM»
or the l.t. Vi Varley 8 ”‘“' f JJ' d "" t! iS |f her Tolc.
markably artistic performer for g , wa iting for
proves worthy of her name the stage win De w» lu s
her one of these years.
A Swedish and Norwegian song recitaliste has^arnved
at Melbourne from Japan, * nd J*” verygiddy ia
Some of these Scandinavian names look very giu y
V "tL ttd .Wrted battle™ at Raymond Terrace
h.“ a magnitcnt attraction in thnr ranto, and tt»
sras:a©aaßi2tt£Wfa—
song for the edification of the said sinners.
“ The Comedy of the Federal Elections was submitted
to two theatrical managers within the waa a
success A feature in the one-act production was a,
character made up as Edward Pulsford, who, whatever
the business on hand, persisted in reeling oflstnng?of
figures. Though repeatedly assaulted, and on
occasion nearly killed, the reeling-off continued.
“I followed up the profession,” said the star actor.
>< in five consecutive tours —as far north as Cairns, as tar
south as Numurka—-and am glad to be back at something
steady and settled in Sydney. I m baihfl, and do » Wtt*
time-payment collecting when bumming A
“Anti-climax 1” I ventured. -Which end is the anti-
climax I ’’he asked.
Atlas, the Sandow-system-trained pupil accompanying
Mdlle. Vulcana, Rickards’ strongest woman on e«th, ia
the muscular maid’s brother. Mdlle. is a Welsh gir „
real name, Eate Roberts —not yet 25. '
Johnny Sheridan writes to the Maorilandl press
refute the statement that his real nam e i s
says that Sheridan is his real name, that he m
the States of poor but Irish parents, and that the dimen
sions of his nose are not to be taken as evidence ag;
him. “A man may have big feet and not be ft police-
man," moans little John.
At La Monnaie Opera House, Brussels, recently, Jane
Merey sang Rosins, in “The Barber of Seville with her
arm in a sling. She had been shot by her husband as she
entered the theatre, and the bullet was not removed
untU after the performance. In the next production,
hafA Miranda took Mme. Merey’s place until the shot
lady had recovered.
Mrs. A. E. Donne (Miss Jeanne Ramsay), of Wellington,
a fellow-student in Melbourne with Ada Orossley, and a
too-seldom-heard soprano, accompanied the diva througn-
out her tour of M.L. #
Hugh Ward has probably made a mistake in accepting
a panto, engagement at Dniry Lane London where his
weak voice will be almost inaudible to th* bulk of the
audience, and the effect of his quaint unobtrusive
dancing will be to a great extent lost. It is the broad,
rasping comedian who makes a hit at Drury L*ne, pro-
vided he gets the foremost show. Newcomer Ward will
have to frivol in the background, or middle distance.
The life of a dramatic company touring in picturesque
but mouldy Asia is full of sombre anxieties and glad sur-
prises. Awhile ago, 0. A. Pollard took a co. from Mel-
bourne under a 12 months’ engagement, but when it had
finished a rather poor season in Shanghai, the experienced
Pollard thought that prospects were unfavorable, and was
for sending the people back to Australia. They were
mor£ hopeful—hope springs eternal in the mummers
breast—and preferred to continue the round trip with
Pollard’s manager, Alec Middleton, in charge of the
expedition. Did boom business at Singapore and Penang,
and, when last heard from, were flourishing at Agra, or
thereabouts, after putting in a good time at Calcutta.
It is a fairly strong touring co., with leanings towards
heavy drama, but the pieces that mostly serve to keep
the pot boiling are the same old “ What Happened to
Jones ’’ and “ Charley’s Aunt.” Anything more emotional
than “Jones’’ is a risky experiment in.those tired Asiatic
localities, where the White Man takes up his burden and
leaves the colored native to carry it.


FREE
To Country Visitors Only
FOR THE XMAS SEASON.
THE BEST BOOK.
Over 200 leading Australian
journals declare this book,
“ CLINICAL EXFEB.I-
ENCES ” ON GENERAL DISEASES, compiled by the Medical Staff of
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute
to be one of the finest medical works ever issued to the Australian public. It is a welcome
addition to Australian literature. It has been read by thousands of men and women weekly
throughout Australia. Over 250,000 copies have been ordered in two years. It contains
570 pages,
150 Interesting: Medical Plates,
31 chapters on general diseases, and 50 valuable articles upon public hygiene. It is a book
essentially for men, and it is worth a Pound a Page to any suffering man who needs a doctor.
FIVE PENCE ONLY.
This great work will be
given away FREE to
country visitors during the
Xmas season who call at the Institute, or if application is made by post, the fee of
FIVE PENCE IN STAMPS ONLY
will be charged. It can be seen on application. It is no mere advertising pamphlet, but a
genuine Medical Work, instructive to a degree. Country people residing where medical men
are few and far between should keep a copy in the house for it is as good as a doctor to them.
It will tell you what to do in cases of
FEVER, SUNSTROKE, APOPLEXY, DROWNING,
EPII.EF.3Y, HYSTERIA, etc., etc.; in fact, there is very little that is not treated in
its pages. Send for it while you have the chance; it does not come every day to you.
Visitors from the country during the Xmas season should not return to their homes without a
copy of this famous work. It is the Book of Books. Bead it, then lend it to your friends.
List of 31 Chapters.
Each of these chapters is
illustrated with plates which
are the perfection of excellence
pertaining; to the medical sub-
jects of which they form a part.
I
..ri*j tyvn f 11 »■ ■ t'» uiiw.r
mm
. riSfesl§|
&?•■«-• ‘- r -*1 v
as
sts
*
Mmm,
-
!T S
SS?**
r -a
i ’fe
ifl
£r*'
tVv
S! ■
SI
•j ' >
•■ £ v-.Vytfi
I
I
■‘iV&
mmm
~ s'. oVxviLno\i
H
Shi
::
w8?£8??
m
g
- <&i' •-'* c
m
m
mm
$
Ska
*a
csa
as
;;
*
y?A
ZpS'd
SEE
!?*#£
QCO
m
%
ft*
S«
:*>7K
yM
fH
&§
m
eas
«Y
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
A Few Valuable
Press Notices.
Kalgoorlie “ SUN " s “ ‘CLINICAL
EXPERIENCES ’ contain) much valuable
information written in a popular manner.”
Adelaide “ OBBERVER " : “There
has never been published of its kind in
Australia a more worthy addition to the
literature of the colony."
Hobart “MERCURY" : “ It is an ele-
gantly-bound volume. Over 20,000 .. .
copies are issued yearly.”
Brisbane “WORKER" : “Almost
every disease which flesh is heir to has
been treated within the pages of this
work.”
“NEWZEALAND MAIL" : “ In this
book the authors give us much that is
instructive from a physical health view-
point.”
“SUNDAYTIMES,” Perth,in “Bits
about Books," on March 29,1903, says:
“'CLINICAL EXPERIENCES’ on
General Diseases is splendidly compiled.
It would be hard to overrate its value,
nor do we ever remember to have seen a
more creditable production or one that
merits a more appreciative press notice."
Auckland “OBSERVER " : “A high-
ly interesting volume. It deals with
nerve complaints and how to cure them.”
“GOLDEN FLEECE,” Sydney:
“ The volume conducts humanity from
the cradle to the grave."
“ FREE LANCE,” Wellington :
“ Nerve diseases and a thousand and
one ills arising from them are exhaust-
ively described."
“ FEDERAL PASTORALIBT " :
“ The medical illustrations show the per-
fection of illustrative excellence."
“ PUNCH,” Melbourne : “ Any suf-
ferer interested in a medically diagnosed
incurable disease should write to the
Specialists of the Institute.”
Bendigo “INDEPENDENT”:
“ Amongst the leading Medical Institutes
of the world, the Freeman and Wallace
Institute holds a position of high signifi-
cance.”
These are but a few of
some hundreds of reviews
given by the leading weekly
and daily journals In the Com-
monwealth of Australasia.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE “ INVIGORATOR” BELT, ONE POUND ONLY.
Country visitors are herein warned against the purchase of Electric Belts at £lO and £2O. Don’t buy when this amount is asked. The quack
and the medical sharper is on the look-out. No Electric Belt is worth this fabulous amount, and no Belt should be worn unless advised by a
professional man. ELECTRICITY HAS BEEN KNOWN TO KILL.
h
SPECIAL ATTENTION is drawn to the chapter upon Electricity and its appli-
cation to the human nerve system by the use of
The FREEMAN & WALLACE ELEGTRIC “ INVIGORATOR” BELT.
This treatment is fully described and illustrated, and its uses explained. It is a genuine
electric “Belt,” as is now in use amongst English Scientists, who recognise that an even
current of medical electricityi nfused into the chief nerve centres governing the stomach and
kidneys is a certain relief in cases of physical ‘ ‘ weakness ” and general breakdown.
THIS “ INVIGORATOR ” IS SOLD FOR £1 ONLY.
It is superior to any electric instrument used in medical practice in Australia. A perusal of
this chapter re testimonies of cure from leading persons, and the certificates of test of this
medical “ BELT,” given by leading members of the electrical world of Sydney, will be instruc-
tive. Worn round the waist for a few hours nightly, the greatest forms of nerve diseases
classed as “ incurable ” are permanently relieved. It has often cured where doctors have
signally failed.
No man or woman should wear an Electric “Belt” until they have read in this
book the probable effect of Electricity upon them. They should be certain it does
not aggravate their disease and render a cure impossible as has been proved in
many instances.
-^s
THERE WILL BE FOUND AN APPENDIX OF 173 PAGES.
further illustrated, which will be found of interest, containing articles upon correspondence to the
Specialists in Foreign Languages (in French, German, or Italian), Burns and Scalds, Poisoned
Wounds, Sick Room Management, Children and their Illnesses, the Sickness of Old Age, &c.
A LIST OF 50 VALUABLE PRESCRIPTIONS FOR HOME USE
containing many useful remedies of well-known efficacy are included. A chapter upon
Poisons and their Antidotes, an illustrated chapter of personal testimonials, and a vocabulary
of 1000 medical terms, indispensable to the reader unenlightened in the details of physiology
and anatomy is instructive. The reader’s attention is also drawn to the five full-page illustra-
tions of the modes of wearing an Electric Belt by either sex. Each plate is explained, as well
as the mechanism of the “ INVIGORATOR,” which is constructed on scientific principles.
This magnificent work can be obtained as a Splendid Presentation Volume. After you have read it, lend it to
your friends. It will be forwarded to any address in Australia for Fivepence only, in stamps, to cover postage. This
is the Cheapest and Most Instructive Medical Work ever offered to the Australian public. Remember—All patients are
under the care of Dr. R. Wallace, M.D., who is registered by Australian, English, and American Medical Boards.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AMD
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
Cor. ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.


-ALWAYS YOUR
wgys
Worth
IS
[\m
m
ĥ
ħ
Conclusively ■ ■ ■
The Christmas .
Headquarters...
THAT this Store is the Chief Shopping Centre for Sydney and surrounding country is shown by the throngs of buyers who,
Christmas, gather together here.. Our unexcelled display of useful and ornamental things eminently suited for gift-giving, com‘ 1
the excellent values offered, is an inducement not to be resisted by sensible people. We have presents for all ages an ,
the tiny toddlers to the grandmothers—from an eighteen-penny thimble to a diamond ring at £l5O. Ho matter ow sma y
may be you will be welcomed as cordially and waited on as courteously as if you came in a carriage. Come and see the ove y &
you don’t want to buy. There is a certain satisfaction for us when you come but to look. You may come to buy some ot e
can’t come—write. Our Special Christmas Catalogue will be sent by return, and it will surely inteiest you. The lovely things Y
on this page are brimful of style and quality, while the prices are reasonable.
No. G33o2.—Magnificent Diamond and Emerald
Cluster Brooch, £l4O.
I
No. C 1290. —15ct. Gold and Real
Pearl Photo. Pendant, £3.
Others £3 10s, £4,
No. Ml4.—Fine Diamond and Gold New
Moon Brooch, £8 10s. Larger size, £2l.
No. G 3050.— Fine Gold Half-lloop Bangle, set with 16 fine
Diamonds and 9 Rubies or Sapphires, £2O.
No. Eslos.—Exquisite Diamond and Opal New Moon
Brooch, £3O.
Very large size, £47 10s.
No. Ml3.— Fine Gold Bangle, Set with 20 White, Sparkling
Diamonds and 9 Fine Opals, £35.
No. Gl722.—Exquisite Diamond and Ruby or Diamond and
Sapphire and Fine Gold Bangle, £2l.
No. 152. —Fii»* Sold Scroll-Pattern Bangle, Set with 12 Brilliant
White Diamonds and 5 Rubies or Sapphires, £l3 10s.
All Diamonds, £32 10s.
No. OM4.—lsct. Gold and Fine Diamond Cluster Bracelet,
Brooch and Pendant combined. Price, £45.
No. C1488.—150t. Gold and
fine Quality Pearl Brooch
and Pendant, £5/15/-.
No. CM2.—Exquisite Pearl arid Turquoise Spray Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £l5.
No. 01394.—Xf>ct. Gold and Fine
Pearl add Opal Brooch and
Pendant, £B/10/-.'
No. C4lB.—Fine Diamond and 15ct. Gold Clover Leaf
Brooch, an exquisite design, £lB lOg.
h
Send
for
Illustrated
Catalogue.
ALL
GOODS
POST
FREE.
No. 128 A .—Gold, Diamond and Ruby
Butterfly Brooch, £3 7a. 6d.
No. F9lBs.—Very Pretty Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold
Necklet, in Case, £l2 10s. Other Gold & Pearl Necklets
at £0 10s, £7 10s, £8 Bs, £9 10s, £lB 10s, £2O, £2l, £25, £32 10s.
No. 153 A.—Fine Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £6 6s.
No. G2s39.—Fine Diamond Scroll New Moon Brooch, £35.
Smaller size, with Diamonds and Rubies or Diamonds and Sapphires, £l6 10s.
No. 01450.
Diamond Crescent
Brooch,
£l5 10s.
Larger, £26 10s.
No. CMI. —15cfc. Gold and Fine Pearl,
Opal and Ruby Brooch, £lB 10s.
No. CMl2. Fine Diamond and Opal Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £l6 10s.
No. D 7209. —Fine Cluster
Diamond Ring, £l3 10s.
No. F 3624. —Fine Diamond
Crossover Ring, £35.
A variety of Fine Diamond and Sapphire Broochea
after this style, £8 Bs. to £9 10.
No. 156.—Scroll and Cluster Combination Brooch and Bangle.
Fine Gold, set with 12 Diamonds and 5 Rubies or Sapphires, £l4 10s.
All Diamonds, £27 10s.
No. M3B4l. —Combination Brooch aaid Bangle, 15ct. Gold,
set with 10 Sparkling- Diamonchrof-a size slightly smaller
than pictured, £2l.
No. 126 A.—Fine Rose Diamond and Gold
Sv.aHow Brooch, £4.
h
I
So. 62846.—Very Handsome Dia-
mond Pearl, and Sapphire
Pendant, £25.
No. Cl3Sl.—lsct. Gold and Fine
Pearl or Pearl and Turquoise
Photo. Pendant,
£i ss.
No. 016.—15 ct. Gold and Finest Opal and Diamond f croll
and Cluster Bangle. Price, £45.
No. G26B7.—Fashionable Diamond and Olivine Lizard
Brooch, £l4 10s. Set Pearls and OiivineF, £7 10s.
Diamonds and Emeralds, £37 lCs.
No CMI2 —15ct. Gold and Fine Diamond and Opal Brooch,
£l4 10s.
ĥ
THERE is no use arguing with a stubborn
man, so if you are one of that sort don’t
read any further. We talk and talk about
the merits of the Stewart Dawson Waltliains
year in and year out. Why ? We have other
makes to sell—why push this line so persist-
ently ? Larger profits ? No; smaller. But
every time we put one of these watches in a
pocket we have made a customer—a friend.
It pleases and gives satisfaction. A watch is a
sensible gift.
.ri.. 3 QUALITIES IN SILVER. Men’s.
Kevless Full Hunting Oases .. ..' £3 10
„ .. .. £4 10
” ” „ .. .. £0 10
3 QUALITIES IN GOLD.
10ct. Gold Full Hun ting Cases ..
14ct. „ .. >»
18ct. „ .. ». •»
.. £lO 10
.. £l3 10
.. £2l
Lady’s size Engraved Silver Cases .. £4
„ „ lCct. Gold „ .. £8 10
” „ „ 14ct. „ „ ..£lO 10
” „ „ 18ct. „ „ ..£I4W


Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
ħ
A DAINTY LITTLE PRESENT.
Combination Pin Cushion, Thimble
and Real Holder. Nickel plated with
plush Top. damps on to table by means
of spring l . Price 2/- each, 3 for 5/6, box of
6 for 10/6. Larger Size, «
with weighted pedestal—stands any-
where—price 3/6, 3 for 9/-, box of 6 for
17/-. All post-paid to any address in
Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand on
receipt of price. Address all orders—
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
m
229-231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Ote Golden Drink Cure.
A Simple Home Remedy. Cleanses the System In three weeks from
the dreadful curse of Alcoholism. No Restraint. No Loss of
Work. No Expensive Institute Treatment. +
A. RECENT TESTIMONIAL.
“ Dear Sir, “ November 11, 1903.
“ With a grateful heart I ask you to accept a word of thanks for the benefit you have bestowed on
me. I was in a fair way of being overpowered with strong drink. Again and again I resolved not to touch
it, and again and again I drank ‘ success to good old resolution I* But one day an old and tried friend,
who was sorry to see my condition, and who at intervals had read me temperance lectures, said to me, ‘ I
can get a medicine that will take the desire to drink from you altogether.’ I smiled to myself, having no
faith in such cures. However, I said, ‘ You will be my best friend if you can do that.’ He said, ‘ Will you
take the medicine ? ’ I said, ‘ I will,’ and I did. I stuck to it, and it was all right. My old energy and
will-power have returned; the horrible nightmare has departed, and ‘Richard is hiwself again.’
DRUNKENNESS IS A DISEASE. To preach at a man is useless. To sign temperance pledges is of no
avail. To tell a man he is bad is an incentive to make him worse. The disease wants an antidote ; you
have that antidote in ALCOCIDE. God preserve you to use it for those who cry in anguish, ‘ Take the
curse away 1’ Yours, dear sir, for ever, .”
Particulars post free* tinder cover* Strictly confidential.
Sole Agent for Australasia and New Zealand :
A. G. LUnSDEN
74 VICTORIA ROAD,
AUBURN, MELBOURNE.
SPECIAL GRAND CONCERT
To give enjoyment to all lovers of music.
PROGRAMME.
Serenade of Mephistofele (Faust) “Gounod” M. PLANCON
Vio Lo Sapete—“Cavelleria Rusticana ” ... MADAME CALYE
ToAnthea ... C. SANTLEY
Air des Bijoux (Faust) SUZANNE ADAMS
Dai Campa dai prata Mephistofele ... COM. CARUSO
Why. Davydoff ... ... ... MADAME TTALTZEVA
Andante “Favourita” ... ... ... M. RENAUD
Lullaby from “ Harold ” ... ... MADAM FIGNER
If a combination of artists such as the above could be got together, there is no hall in Australia that would accommodate the crowd they would draw,
and seats would sell at as fancy a price as ever gladdened the heart of theatrical impressario.
It is now possible to have the above singers and hundreds of other artists performing in your own home; naturally, you ask how ? The answer is ready
at once— By means of the Gramophone. Write to us and we will forward you, post free, list of records and machines, with the name of
our nearest agent, where you may hear the machine, and judge as to its excellency yourself. The best Christmas present a man can get his family is a
GRAMOPHONE. Agents everywhere, prices to suit everyone.
No. 3
New Type,
£4.
h
Other Styles,
£1 Is. to £32 10s.
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & 00., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland—
HEINDOREE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & 00., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia.
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BMP'S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOlt IT.
it will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from it.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
EMMIE * CO., PIEEIOUKDE.
BLACK, liEI), and BLUE (in 8-gallo.n Cases):—'
PRICE IN MELBOURNE 4./. per
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) «gL/_
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) ... „ .. -3-/_
•• HORftRT (Wm. Crosby & Co.) M .. M 4/.
Gallon.
91
99
99
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Benders Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record,
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and tha Aged, Delicious, nutritive, and digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
ti) find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.
A Vic. pressman on Premier Irvine’s
mind
For a still, strong, calm man Iceberg Irvine is a most
indecisive wobbler. At a gaud mayor’s banquet Irvine
deliberately announced his intention to retire from the
Ministry, and from politics altogether. For a week after-
wards he persisted in saying that he could not afford to
remain in politics. Then a meeting of his supporters wag
held to ask him to reconsider his decision, and after some
struggling with himself, Irvine announced that he would
stay and lead his party so long as the country had confi-
dence in him. Irvine has a woeful tendency' to change
his mind—that is for a still, cool, calm man. A sudden
change of mind led him to contest a seat in Parliament in
the first place, when he carefully courted the civil service
vote. A rapid change of mind enabled him to put under
the table his objections to Woman’s Suffrage and join the
M'Lean-Shiels Ministry as Attorney-General at £lOOO a
year. A violent change of mind caused him, as soon as
he was out of office, to fish his objections to Woman’s
Suffrage from beneath the table, dust them, and put
them coldly and calmly before the public again. A rapid
change of mind resulted in Irvine resigning the leader-
ship of the Opposition. r Then a staggering change of
mind ended in his sneaking back to the position of leader
of the Opposition within a few days after he had resigned.
An instantaneous change of mind enabled him to
dish his own followers after they had helped him defeat
Peacock and to propose a reduction of members to 56,
whereas, before the defeat of Peacock, he had fixed 70
members. A severe change of mind induced him to put
his objections to Woman’s Suffrage under the table again
and give that principle a place in his Constitutional
Reform Bill. Various swift changes of mind were re-
sponsible for several other things in that measure, while
an equal number of changes of mind accounted for the
fact that Woman’s Suffrage and other features of the Bill
were hacked out of it at the conference between the two
Ho ises. About this time Irvine had changed his mind so
often and so suddenly that his Tory heelers began to
write letters to the press headed “Which Mr. Irvine?”
bin ;e then Irvine has changed his mind in public so many
tunes that one begins to wonder whether his poor, old
calm, cool mind has not been almost worn out in the
changing.
A once famous whip, in the person of
Edward Devine (“Cabbage-tree Ned’’ of the
golden days), returned recently to Ballarat after
36 years on Westralian fields. From 1853 (when
he was only 17) to 1862, Ned drove a six-in-hand
between Geelong and Ballarat for Doming, Cobb
and Co., and as a whip was styled “ the Icing of
the highway.” During the first two years his
wage was £l6 per week, and his tips from lucky
diggers, for whom he conveyed gold to the banks,
averaged even more than that. The roads at the
time were frequented by “Captain” Melville,
Black Douglas, and other bushrangers. Ned had
many narrow escapes, and on one occasion his
coach was stuck up, and his passengers robbed of
£BOO, by the notorious Ned Jordan, afterwards
hanged for the murder of squatter Rutherford.
Devine got his sobriquet from the fact that he
usually sported a wide-brimmed cabbage-tree
hat—a favorite head-dress of diggers in the 50’s.


TATTE RS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Pive Shilling Ticket issued fcy Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each os.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
PERTH CUP, Perth. W.A, DEC. 28,1903, 50,000 at 5/1. LAUNCESTON CUP, Launceston, Tas., Jan. 20,1904,50,000 at 5/1.
HOBART CUP, Elwick, Hobart, Tas., Jan. 27, 1904, 50,000 at 5/1.
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., Feb. 27, 1904, 100,000 at 10/2.
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 1, 1904, 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that olients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also bo paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or EIRM doing business with Tasmania.
THE!
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPT0 9 LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
Ror all information regarding Rates,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
THE PA.3MCOXJS REMEDY EOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OP HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and earned
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE'S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—i wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire.' I had medical
advice, and tried other 1 remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Mearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed bv
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have, finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“ M.y cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne."
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“ I tm very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
©
“ i have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” ®
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my b'ief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
'• Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—ll. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for ail the medicine I previously
look made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—-HENRY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CllAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CUr’eiT’iN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during- the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“Thi3 gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people eveu
in our ovVn circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“ PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.’
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Ilearne, Estj. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.' 1
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.’-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
PEPOT - Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size. 2s 6d: Larsre. 4s 6d. Sold bv Chemists and Medicine Vendors Forwarded bu Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.


Miss Ada Crossley’s
TRIBUTE TO
THE PIANOLA.
21/10/’O3.
Menzies’ Hotel,
Melbourne.
The Manager of the Pianola Co.
Dear Sir, —I want to tell you how delighted I am
with the Pianola. It is altogether wonderful ! In an
accompaniment to several of my songs it has given
me splendid support, and the tone has been most
sympathetic and sustaining.
With appreciation and greeting,
Yery truly yours,
ADA CROSSLEY.
There is but one PIANOLA.
Sold only by . . .
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
323 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
185-7 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
We will mail you a Catalogue of the Pianola
free if you will write us. Ask for Catalogue B.
HH
m
m.
h
willlH
. ’’ rcVj?-- ■
—1
iSIt
*
Warn
mm
waßak
m
1
■ , v,'
H
■
IENIi
ĥ
The Place of the Dead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Up from the cliffs where the billows surge
Merrily, madly in leaping spray,
Stretches the home of the lonely dead ;
Pallid marble and granite grey,
Stone-bound vault and graven slab,
Cross and pillar, angel and crown,
Wind-scoured sand and withered flowers,
Grass, sun-parched to a sickly brown.
And here, at the cliffs, the open sea
Like a troubled mirror, with emerald sheen,
Leaping gaily in feathered spray,
Rolling grandly in billows green,
Thundering up with a curving crest
To break in foam with a hollow roar;
Gliding back with a snake-like haste
Over the rocks and the weed-strewn shore.
Silent, sunlit, sail-less, sad,
Stretching afar through a turquoise mist;
Unbroken save when a leaping plume
Of gem-hung spray, glows, sunlight-kissed.
To right and left the guardian rocks,
Crowned with the sand-stung grasses tall,
Standing lonely, knee-deep in foam,
Front each shock with an iron wall.
Oh ! how can ye rest, ye sleeping dead,
There in your narrow, stone-bound beds,
With the drifting sand, and the withered flowers,
And the crowding crosses at your heads ?
While here at your feet, through sun and shade,
Tempest and calm, lies the aged Deep,
Laughing and whispering, thundering loud,
Calling ye ever—yet there ye sleep !
When my call comes, and ye seek a place
For that which is left of what once was me,
Lay me not thus in an earthy bed,
To sleep or dream through Eternity.
No ! Bear me down to the weed-strewn shore,
’Neath the dripping cliffs so gaunt and bare,
With the scream of the gulls for my requiem,
With no muttered mass and no mumbled prayer.
Let the wreathing arms that grip the land,
Curving in from the crested Deep,
Clutch me, and catch me, and keep me fast,
Bearing me back in their widening sweep ;
And the voice that first sang me a lullaby
As I lay asleep on iny mother’s breast,
The voice of the sea I have ever loved
Shall whisper me tenderly, “ Peace and Rest 1 ”
N.s.w.
CHAS. E. HOWELL.
A Religious Outlook.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A tame little curate, young, soulful, and be-
spectacled, struck the homestead a little after
dusk, and we took him in and scraped up a feed
for his horse. Most of our own had been trucked
down Gippsland way. After ago at some rather
tough mutton, he told us something about him-
self. The burden of our learning was that he was
three weeks out from England, and was engaged
in picking up impressions as fast, and with as
much discrimination, as a fly just out of a treacle-
tin picks up dust.
“I am to take charge of a curacy,” he explained.
“ But before doing so, I thought it well to learn
something of this great country, and so I have
embarked on a riding tour, preaching as I go. ”
Jim muttered to me that if he couldn’t preach a
bit better than he rode, it was a pity, but mother
frowned him down. Father screwed up his mouth
as if he had bitten something nasty.
“ You mean you take services on Sundays ?” he
asked.
“ Oh, no. The fields are my tabernacle.”
“You’ll find plenty of lost sheep there,” father
said, grimly. “I’m afraid you’ll have some diffi-
culty in keeping them from straying. Most of
’em are pretty dog-poor just now. There’s only
one sort of preaching that’s acceptable to empty
stomachs.”
The curate glanced in a pained way at Nell
and mother, and actually blushed.
. “I own, ” he said, “ I have found some difficulty
in making my hearers listen to the Word. There
is no outward sign. Yet, who knows but that my
ministrations are blessed inwardly? I have not
yet grown weary in well-doing.”
“How long ’ve you been at it ? ” father asked,
bluntly.
“Five days,” said the curate, modestly. And
father grinned a little.
We saddled-up for him in the morning, as he
said he wanted to make an early start Echuca
way. After breakfast, he mentioned his desire to
hold a service before he left. Father and I cleared
out, and got lost in the stable. Nell left for parts
unknown. The girl in the kitchen was “ a
Roman,” so all the congregation he got was
mother and Jim. He took about half-an-hour to
save them; then mother came out looking very
weary, and Jim said “Blast! ” as he passed me.
The curate looked happy, but the feeling seemed
confined to him.
Father told me to put him through the pad-
docks and on to the road, so we started out after
the curate had left a blessing on the house, which
didn’t seem to appreciate the favor. He talked
godliness to me all the way, so naturally I hadn’t
much to say. Anyhow, it was enough to make a
fellow silent to ride through those dried-up, dusty
paddocks. There was nothing to look at but
sheep skeletons, which don’t make cheerful
scenery.
Just inside our boundary we sighted a camp
under a tree. There was a rough waggon made
out of an old spring dray with a tilt fixed-up with
hessian, and a little way off an old grey mare-
wandered round chewing sticks. We hadn’t
troubled for weeks to keep a padlock on the gate.
I lie owners were sitting under a tree and said,
“Good morning ! ” civilly enough as we rode up.
They were the sorriest-looking lot I’d seen, in a.
season when none but sorry travellers came by.
A big man, not a bad-looking fellow either, and a
pretty woman with grey streaks in her hair that
looked as if they shouldn’t be there. She had a
baby at her breast, and there was a little chap of
three or four running round. He was almost
naked, and the others weren’t much better off.
Iliey had clothes of a sort, but no two garments-
matched, and they were in rags. The baby was
wrapped in an old green tablecloth. I’d have
taken my oath not one of them had had a decent
feed for a month ; and the old mare’s hips were
nearly through her hide. The man said she had
knocked-up the day before, and they were out of
tucker. I asked him where they came from, and
he said, “ The back of Hell.”
I heard the curate give a horrified little gasp,
and knew he was preparing for action. I could
have laughed if it hadn’t been for the white-faced
woman in front of-us. She hadn’t looked at us,
except for the first glance, but sat staring over the
baby’s head at nothing in particular.
“ My friend,’" said the curate, severely, “ I fear
you do not realise what your words mean.”
“ Gawd knows I do,” said the other man.
“ I should ljke to talk to you. ”
“ I don’t hold with preachin’ and psalm-singin’,
mister,” said the chap. “If you can give me a
job to make tucker out of I’ll be glad to talk of
that.”
“I regret I have no work to give,” said the
curate, “ but if a shilling or two ”
“ Oh, dry up; we ain’t beggin’vet! ” cut in the
other. The curate smelt a cue and pounced on it.
“Before the Most High we are all beggars,”
he said, smugly. “ I fear, my friend, you neglect
Him. Pray ! He can make rivers of running
water in the desert ! ”
“No bloke in his senses prays like that,” said
the big, ragged man ; “ all we asked Him was to
keep the creeks He’d made already goin’. If He
got full up on that contrack, one’d hardly expect
Him to take on another. It ain’t sense.”
“It is not for us to criticise Him,” the curate
said. “ Remember He holds us in the hollow of
His hand.”
“Does He?” asked the chap in a tired way.
“ Well, He’s squeezed us pretty damn dry. He’s
been better’n a patent wringer up our way.”
The curate looked as if he were going to take a
fit. His eyes bulged. He began with something
' ' at sounded like “ Alas ! ” but the other struck
in.
“Now look here, mister,” he said, “Im just
about chock-full of chaps like you. Newspaper-
reporters—bloomin’ town men and wimmen—an’
you psalm-singers are the only sorts that come
up our way now, an’ I’m blowed if I know whieli
of yous is the worst. You sling off about mercy
an’ lovin’-kindness an’ plenteousness till we’re
fair sick; an’ the only plenteousness is dust an’
dead stock, an’ the only mercy gittin’ away with
some of our lives; an’ as for the lovin’-kindness,
it’s off ! Come ’n live up in the drought for six
months, an’ try to scrape your own tucker an’
your kids’ up somehow, an’ then see how much
you’ll talk about gawspel. Gawspel’s the only
thing we get free, and we get full-up on that.”
The curate looked despairing and turned to the
woman, who didn’t seem as if she’d heard any-
thing.
“My sister,” he said, “ I trust you do not share
these fearful views ? You know the tender mercy
of our God, do you not ? ”
“I reckon I do,” she said, without looking at
him.
It was his first bit of encouragement, and it
cheered him up quite wonderfully.
“ Ah, I knew it! ”he cried. “You have faith
—you know that whom He loveth He chasteneth ! ”
“ He’s mighty fond of us, then,” she said.
“We’ve had no end of His mercies. He never
forgets us.”
The curate looked a bit less chirpy, but he kept
his end up.
“ Then you will pray with me ? ” he began.
“No; I think not, thanks,” she said, slowly.
“ I’ve given over prayin’ for the time bein’—ever
since the mercies began to get thick. Seemed a
if I couldn’t pray through them, so I pulled up.”
“I don’t understand,” he said, doubtfully.
“No; anyone c’d see that,” she agreed. “But
I gave over prayin’ when our last cow went dry.”
He looked primly shocked. “ Was that sufficient
cause, sister?” he asked.
“Oh, I think so. You see, that meant the
girls dyin’—my little girls. They was both sick,
just sick from bad food an’ water, an’ heat, an’
that cow’s milk was all we had to keep them alive.
So they died, an’ I chucked prayin’. Seems
curious, don’t it, that one cow’s milk sh’d make a
split in a thing like that? It was bloomin’poor
milk, too! ”
“So was the mercy,” said the man—“bloomin’
poor ! ”
“That’s my sister’s boy,” said- the woman,
pointing to the kid running about. “She died,
too, she’n her baby—died of heat an’ dust, an’
flies, an’ starvin’. She’d lived on pollard for a
month before her baby was born. An’ now you
come, with your gawspel-talk, an’ preach about
tender mercies. We know all about ’em, bet your
life! What is there we don’t know, livin’ in
hell?”
The man put his arm round her a hit awkwardly.
“Shut up, Liz, old girl,” he said. She never
heeded him.
“Lord, what don’t we know?” she said. Her
eyes were getting wild, like a cow’s eyes get
when it’s in the killing-pen. “We watch
those mercies all day, and we dream of
’em all night; when the kids aren’t cryin’
for food. Every night I watch my two little girls
dyin’ again, an’ they beg me for milk, an’ I give'
’em muddy water again. We weren’t in the
desert, y’see, where the rivers of runnin’ water
get made ; we carted all ours, till the horses
died.” The baby at her breast gave a little wail.
“This baby’s goin’ to die, too”’ she went on.
‘ ‘ There was two of ’em, twins, but the other died,
somehow. Y’see, there was on’y Bill here with
me when they come. It was another tender
mercy ! ”
She fell over sideways. The man caught her,
and I showed the curate, whose face was green,
out on to the road, without more politeness than
was necessary. He did not leave any more bless-
ings.
I took the travellers up to the house, and father
gave the man a job water-carting. The baby died
next day.
BOREE.
“ J.D.” on the registry office trouble :
Re registration fee demanded by registry office sharks.
Know two who subsist also, to some extent, on a
“ postage fee” of one shilling. It is a slight, variation of
the *• registration fee,” and guarantees free corres-
pondence concerning vacant jobs fora period of twelve
months. On three successive days recently one of these
concerns required three, four, and five barmaids (12
barmaids in all) for city and country hotels. I men-
tioned the dearth to a barmaid out of “ collar,” and she
informed me that she had paid a “postage fee” nine
weeks previously, and had not received a line regarding
a vacancy, although the shark had advertised some forty-
positions in the interval. The postage fee idea has this
great advantage—it fetches in shillings from the
country, and the country girl isn’t handy to
make a personal row about not getting any-
thing for her shilling. The registry office business
is in urgent need of regulation, but it seems to be
impossible to do anything in Australia without the
aid of Parliament. And Parliament starts by appointing
a commission to spend six months in inquiring, and six
months in drawing up a report which fills a large book.
Then it is necessary to compose a Bill and get it read six
times in Parliament, and twice passed through com-
mittee. And when someone moves the adjournment of
the House every night as soon as it meets, and there are
also 200 questions to answer, and the usual discussion
about Bill’s dirt-money to be attended to, and the want
of a quorum as well, how can anything be done '!
“Alb.”: The Pope will not remain
always bottled up in Rome. As Catholic ideas
expand, he will be seen in Vienna, Berlin, Paris,
London, Dublin, New York, Chicago—aye, in
Sydney. Travel is becoming recognised as indis-
pensable for potentates. The holy father needs to
got away from the clammy steam of the Italian
clerical atmosphere. Why should his ideas be
filtered out to him, or given like pap to an infant ?
Louis Yon Doussa, South Australia’s new
Attorney General, served articles with the same
country solicitor (the veteran Mr. Bonnar, now
resident at Manly) as his predecessor, Justice
Gordon. The S.A. Parliament holds two Von
Doussas. This one is its ecclesiastical authority,
the other is its turf. authority. One is church
advocate of the Adelaide diocese, the other seore-
tary of Onkaparinga Racing Club.


Ww
ft
- r
■m
vy?ZL.**r
pi-.
rl
-v>
*—-On. %
yA
: Kidney Trouble Affects the Back First."
ACHING BACKS.
When the hack aches —when it is lame or weak—when it is easily tired —the
Kidneys are giving you plain warning—and it is a serious warning, for kidney disease
is the most dangerous of all diseases.
But it is NOT the back which aches, it is the Kidneys aching beneath, and
backache is their cry for help.
P
s
Used by the Quakers for 70 years.
Cure all Kidney Ills—cure urinary trouble—and all dangerous disorders of the
Kidneys and the Bladder.
They act on the Kidneys and Bladder only.
They do that one thing only and they do that one thine well.
Bead the testimony of your neighbors.
FROM SURRY HILLS.
Mr. Jos. Grieve, Wood and Coal Merchant, 18 Albion-street,
Surry Hills, states “ For the past five or six years I suffered
from kidney disorder, which caused me constant pain. The
symptoms of this terrible complaint were severe backache and
irregularity of the secretions of the kidneys. The pain had such
complete mastery over me that at times I could not rise from my
bed. I went to doctors to see what their skill could do for me,
but gained no benefit from them. I tried medicines with no
better results. One day I saw an advertisement regarding a
remedy for kidney trouble, and, as it was not a nostrum said to
* cure everything under the sun, I procured a box of Doan’s Back-
'ache Kidney Pills. I felt a sense of relief right from the first
dose. My pain gradually grew less, and finally disappeared, as
did the other symptoms of kidney disorder.”
This is Mr. Grieve’s testimony given 12 months later
“ Twelve months ago I was cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. I am still a believer in these pills, having never had a
return of my complaint since, except on one occasion vvhen I got
wet in the late bad weather ; but a few doses of these pills quickly
set me right again I had been a terrible sufferer with the kid-
neys, and nothing ever gave me relief but Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills, and they cured me. If I hear anybody complaining of
a bad back I always tell them of the medicine which cured me.”
FROM RANDWICK.
Mr. W. Hibberd, St. Paul’s-street, Randwick, this city, says :
“ For years I have been a sufferer from backache. In my work I have
to stoop a good deal, and prolonged exertion of this kind would
double me up with pain. After stooping I would be scarcely able to
stand up straight again, but would have to bend gradually, and get
the kinks out of mv back. I used many sorts of medicine for this
ache, but with poor success. The doctors I saw were also puzzled, I
think. I procured a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and lam
very pleased to tell you that these pills gave me almost immediate
relief. They went right to the root of my trouble. The pains
diminished afterfurther treatment, and at length totally disappeared.
I shall always recommend these pills for backache trouble.”
Twelve months later Mrs. Hibberd states “It is now more than
a year ago since my husband used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for
backache. lam now able to say that the pills wrought a permanent
cure in his case. The pains never returned since. I can speak with
conviction on the marvellous way they acted in his case. He is very
enthusiastic about the pills, and is always recommending them for
such ailments as the pills are meant for. He had been bad for ten
years, so you can see it is no common remedy that could cure him the
way Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills did.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for Sale by all Chemists and
Stores at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on
receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
"Don't be discouraged. They cure aw neighbors;
they mil cure you."
Christmas Reminiscences.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EEMEMBER once a-spendin’Chris’mas Eve!
i £ 'pendin’ it, mind yer—no darned make-
believe,
But tip-top goin'; all the coves was bricks.
Them as was “stony ” had their drinks for nix.
’Twas “fill an’ empty, fill again,” all night,
Beer, fizz, an’ whisky—then an all-round fight,
’Cause most of us chipped in ter lend a ’and—
The others would ’ave, too, but couldn’t stand,
’Twas simple-like, the way the row began—
Squib Jinks remarked as “Billy ain’t no man,
But blanky blank,” and other blanks condensed,
So Bill ’auled off, an’ then the fun commenced,
Squib loved a scrap—it seemed ter cool ’is brain
Ter jump up, sudden-like, an’ then raise Cain ;
An’, when yer comes ter think, ’e warn’t to
blame,
’Twas ’uman natur’—Adam did the same.
Yes, them was times, there ain’t the same seen
now,
W’en men was men, takin’ ’em any’ow.
Most of ’em’s now in ’Eav’n, or else in—well,
Lord on’y knows, so ’ow am I ter tell ?
Old Squib got flattened in a “ frien’ly spar ”
An’ Parson tells me Billy’s “ crossed the bar,”
Though that ain’t strange, ’cause Billy’d never
think
Of passin’ any bar -without a drink.
Welived them days, made fortunes—spent’em, too,
In rare old style, mates ’elped each other through.
I’ve ’ad my ups an’ downs, most downs—l mean
Luck’s now N. 8., w’ich stands for “not a bean.”
An’ girls ! —where can yer see the likes to-day
Of six-foot Kate, or Jane of Bramble Bay ?
Big-limbed, with muscle— men from ’ead ter toe —
They may have been men, too, fer all I know.
This Old Men’s ’Ome, an’ inmates, ain’t my class ;
But w’at’s a man ter do ’oo’s lost ’is brass ?
’Tain’t Christian-like, at Chris’mas, sittin’ ’ere
A-drinkin’ tea, an’ dreamin’ as it’s beer.
I’ve ’ad my w’ack of life, so can’t complain—
After long spells of dry it’s bound ter rain ;
On’y with me the rule’s turned tail about—
Long spells of wet, an’ now a bloomin’ drought.
Might ’ave saved ’undreds!—what good would
they be
Now limbs is stiff an’ eyes can’t ’ardly see ?
Live while ye’re young -give the young colt ’is
’ead :
Life’s time is short, —we’ll be a long time dead.
Lived longer goin’ slow ! Maybe, can’t say !
At any rate I’ve lived ter see ter-day.
An’ if old age ’as nothin’ else ter give
But rheumatis an’ tea —’oo wants ter live ?
An’ die unmourned !—quite natcherally so,
’Cause all my pals were planted long ago ;
But in the sixties, mate, there warn’t a man
But w’at was pleased ter shake a ’and with Dan.
When shift-time comes I wants no monyment,
But just a slab ter say—“ ’Ere lies Dan Brent,
An all-round man afore ’e passed ’is prime,”
An’ writ beneath—“ ’E ’ad a good time ! ”
M.L.
KAREWAO.
His Old Man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY mate George was a very quiet sort of
fellow, and not a bit communicative.
One afternoon, when we were nearing
the end of a job, I noticed an old, grey-headed
traveller making across to us.
“ Hel-10, George !” he said in a rather surprised
tone, dropping his swag.
“ Hullo !” said George.
“ Didn’t expect to see you up this way,” went
on the traveller.
“Nor me you,” answered George; “I thought
you was up Gippsland way.”
“Oh, I left those parts three years ago, arid
I’ve been pretty well all round since,” replied our
visitor.
The traveller took his pipe from his pocket, lit
it at one of the burning heaps, had a few pulls,
and, taking it from his mouth, said : “ Been down
in Melbourne lately, George ? ”
“Yes,” said George ; “a few months ago.”
“ Mother all right ? ”
Yes.”
“And the girls?”
“Yes.”
Another silence. The traveller wenton smoking.
George kicked a few sticks together, and said,
“ Clara’s married now.”
“ Oh ! ” said the old fellow, taking the pipe out
of his mouth again, “that’s good”; and as an
afterthought, “Mary’s still at home, I suppose?”
“Yes,” answered George, “Mary and mother’s
alone now.” .
“ Still at the old place ? ”
“Still at the old place,” said George. Silence
again. The traveller took a few long pulls at his
pipe, but it was out. Lighting up again, he
asked, “ Who’d Clara marry, George ? ”
George thought for awhile. “Some chap
named Parker or Parkins ; I forget which, now. ”
The traveller nodded his head two or three
times. “ Where’d they live ?” he asked.
“I dunno,” said George,
“ They got any kids ? ”
“I dun no, they ain’t. They’ve only been
married ’bout six months, I think.”
The traveller nodded his head as before and
said, “Well, good luck to them,” and after a few
more pulls he went on : “ Well, I suppose I must
be getting along. Tell the mother you saw me,
George, next time you’re home, and say I’ll be
down one of these days.”
“Yes, I will,” said George.
We watched him out of sight, and, turning to
George, I said, “The old chap seems to have
known your people once.”
“I should think he did,” he replied ; “that’s
my old man.”
“ What ! ” I cried, astonished ; “ your father ? ”
“ Yes,” he answered, evidently surprised at my
tone.
“Well,” said I, staring at him, “I must say
you seemed very glad to see him.”
“ Yes,” said he, not noticing the sarcasm. “ The
mother’ll be glad, too. That's the first we’ve
heard of him for five years. Funny I should meet
him up here, ain’t it?”
“Yes,” I said. “I suppose you’ll wiite and
tell the mother now, won’t you ? ”
“ Oh, I dunno,” he said ; “ I think I’ll wait till
I get down.”
L.S.H.
Sleeper-Getting.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Uloola ” discourses on “Sleeper-getting”—the
cutting of sleepers for railways :
“ Sleepers ” are cut from ironbark, blackbutt, spotted
gum, turpentine, flooded gum, mahogany, and some few
other kinds of timber. Ironbark is about the best, black-
butt nearly as good, and spotted gum not far behind
either. But tastes differ. Spotted gum is very faulty.
Gum rings in the tree are a frequent and especial trouble.
No good sleeper-chopper will “work” a “ring.v” tree,
for the sleepers will split along the gum-rings after a few
days’ exposure to sun and air.
Only old trees are fit for sleepers, and young timber is
never cut, except, as happens sometimes, when the
“passer" doesn’t know old wood from young ; then the
choppers “ ring in " “ sap ” on him. Sleepers vary in
size, from the “ little sleeper,” 6ft. 6in. x Bin. x 4in.
(Maoriland had a lot of these), to the “ big ” sleeper,
9ft. x lOin. x sin. A neat and compact sleeper is the
7ft. x lOin. x sin. of the N.S.W. railways. The nine-
footer, especially if it is green ironbark, is a brute to
handle.
The core and the sap of a tree are rejected as a rule,
the chopper preferring a hollow tree to a sound one,
because the sleepers can be then cut much more quickly.
The quickest and best way to cut sleepers is to “ groove ”
your tree before “ bursting out” the billets that are to
be afterwards squared into the completed article.
Having your tree down (cut “ stump-high',” or
“scaffolded”), and sawn into lengths, you measure—
with a piece of board the size of the sleeper-end—the
block to see how many billets you can split out of it.
(Sleepers are split, “ on the fiat,” the “ boarding ” way of
the tree— i.e., if you can see, in imagination, the sleepers
in the log before they are cut out, they lie side by side
round the bole. And herein is the reason why sleepers
are split and not sawn. If sawn, the most would be made
of the block and the sleepers sawn “on the flat" the
“bursting” way of the tree, and be of no use.)
The portion of the log between the two sleeper ends is
chopped out with a grooving axe, and when this is done
all round the block it is an easy matter to burst it into
billets. Squaring the billets is done with a ‘ ‘ siding ” axe,
a weapon with a blade from 10 to 14 inches long. Many
choppers can square a sleeper as true and smooth, with a
siding axe, as if it had been planed.
Nearly all the good sleeper-timber in the easily acces-
sible bush at Wyong, Ourimbah, and the districts there-
about has been cut out, and year by year the choppers
have to go farther back up the hills and gullies, where-
upon the haulage is more and more difficult and costly.
Up Jilliby way, where a lot of the “little ironbarks”
(6ft. 6in. x Bin. x 4in.) have recently been cut, as many as
26 bullocks have been hooked on to haul the empty wag-
gon up the hill. The sleepers are “spare-chained” out
of the bush from where they have been cut — i.e., a chain
is'passed round a number of them, and the bunch is
hauled along the ground to where the waggon has been
left. This is also called “ snigging-out.” When loaded
up and ready for descent, several large trees are cut
down, the branches left on, and these, chained behind
the waggon, help to steady it as it goes down.
Things have been excessively dull with the sleeper
choppers for some months back, so the recent order for
half-a-million for South Africa was welcome. However,
trouble has supervened on the contractors trying to
reduce the price for chopping from 2s. 3d. per sleeper,
delivered at the railway station (the old price for “ seven
by ten by fives ”), to Is. 9d. delivered. Out of this the
sleeper-getter has to pay for haulage to the station (from
6d. to Is. according to distance and difficulty), and also
for his license (2s. 6d. per month) and bush rent. More-
over, all the risks are thrust on the chopper. The
sleepers are “ passed ” at the railway stations, and if any
are condemned and thrown out, that is the chopper's
loss. Sometimes the condemned sleepers are sold as
inferior for about enough to cover cost of ear.age ; more
often the chopper gets no return whatever from them.
To resist the attempted reduction the choppers formed
a Sleeper-Getters’ Union. The trouble seems to be t lie old
one of sub-letting the contracts. The original contract was
secured by a big Sydney firm, then sub-let t a local mill-
owner, and then portion of it again to other local men
—storekeepers, &c. When all these get their pickings
there’s little left for the man who does the work and
takes all the risks.
One of the champion sleeper-getters of this district was
“Jack" Towell (recently gone further north). During
the three years he cut round Ourimbah he averaged £3
to £3 10s. per week. But, in addition to being an expert
sleeper-getter, he worked from “jackass to jackass,”
going to the bush at daylight and coming back when he
could no longer see to work.
Filson Young, in London Daily Mail,
writes about the Law’s barbarous method of
dealing with the criminal condemned to die-
how it tends him, fattens him, healthfully exer-
cises him, and provides ministrations for his
blessed soul before proceeding to end him. But
the gloomy hideousness of a murderer’s last days
in an English prison is relieved by privileges
which he wouldn’t get in Australia. The con-
demned “ cell ” that Young describes is an airy,
comfortable room, and the prisoner is hanged in
his free-eitizen clothes. An Australian prisoner
mostly has to meet his doom in the character of a
regulation scarecrow. He may glory in his crime,
but he dies horribly ashamed of his togs, anyhow.
In a South Queensland township, just
beyond Judas Iscariot and adjacent to the
Lamentations of Jeremiah, there was a store-
keeper called Simpson who was reckoned to be
the mildest man west of sunrise. He became the
object of adoration of two ladies of the community
and had not sufficient courage to refuse either of
them, and feeling ran high. At last No. 1 became
desperate and went to Simpson and bullied him
into leaving for Toowoomba by the next train,
determined that he should marry her in proper
style. When No. 2 heard of the flight her be-
havior was cyclonic. The happy pair returned
soon after and settled down, and for a time there
was peace. Then No. 2, by the aid of a friend in
Toowoomba, discovered that there had been no
marriage at al/ After enjoying a holiday they
had come back, naving dispensed with the for-
mality, and considered themselves one. Like a
sensible woman she said nothing, but waited her
chance. One day, when a parson happened
along, and Mrs. Simpson was gossiping to
a neighbor over the back fence, she entered
the store and, capturing Simpson under the
nose of an astonished customer, she bore
him off in his shirt sleeves to the parson, and
they were hitched up with due ceremony, wit-
nesses and all. She returned and ejected No. 1,
who was still at the back fence talking to the
neighbor, and whose first news of the trouble
came to her when the lawful wife threw her spare
clothes out to her in the yard, and told her that
the back gate was the most sudden way off the
premises. f'


Tired All the Time
✓/ - -
A Terrible Feeling of Exhaustion. Unfit for Business. Debilitating
Effects of Hot Seasons. All Easily Removed.
19*.
,
Mrs. C. McDonald, of Northcote,
Victoria, Australia,* sends us her
photograph and says:
“ I was a great sufferer from some
of the most terrible forms of indiges-
tion. I was all tired out from morn-
ing until night. My languor made me
unfit for work or business of any
kind, and I was about ready to give up
discouraged. My liver was all out of
order, and this made me suffer from
constipation and biliousness. Two
remedies completely cured me. I took
Ayer’s Pills to act on my liver and
keep my bowels in good condition,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to purify my
blood, strengthen my nerves, and put
my digestive organs in a healthy
state.”
“The World’s Createst Family Medicine.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is of great help to almost every one in this debilitating
climate. It prevents exhaustion, keeps the nervous system in good order,
and takes away all that tired feeling. Don’t wait until you are down sick.
It’s much wiser and easier to prevent sickness. When the stomach fails,
sickness comes very easy. Profit by Mrs. McDonald’s experience and put your
digestive organs in a healthy state.
We must caution you against imitation Sarsaparillas. Be sure you get
“ Ayer’s.” There’s no risk to run with this old, reliable medicine.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Oldest, Surest, Strongest, and Best Sarsaparilla
Ayers Pills act on the liver and keep the bowels in good condition.
Prepared by DS. J. C. AYEB & CO.. Lowell. Mass.. IT. 8. X
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
0& E p?l H l A s M 'S
I7OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, See. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they .act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of and
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Enebgy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Bevhnni s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he wor d. Full directions with each Pox.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECEAM. St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, ami —s Od each.
h
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
EVERY BOTTLE GUARANTEED.
This is done with Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,
and if you are not satisfied after using two-thirds
of a bottle according to directions, return what is
left and have your money refunded.*
nils
SOLD
BY
vm
M:
ĥ
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BMBKAOBI
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By D*. E. B. FO&TE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, iri plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of'young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are lievoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived. .
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS AD VT.
Writ# lor my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Cd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is 6d. Fowler’s Science of Life, 10s 6d.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling,Bqok of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is, post Is 2d. Rosario,
2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. Ilow to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing,- Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
Es Oil. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Puislic Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d,
Inquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. I#~ Established SO Years.
No flatter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England,' Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 3d. posted. Chevasse's Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, ?s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather hound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is., 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
W annan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
mi
Cheap Book Depot
16 Park Street,
■ ;
A*e/;i/m>fo/7
NEW NO. 6 RIFLE—I9O3 MODEL,
fit
22 Calibre. Peep Sight.
ADAPTED TO THE FOLLOWING CARTRIDGES:
U.M.C. CARTRIDGES Specially Recommended.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS.
OrMARTIN
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.P.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain. Victoria, New South Wales.
- „ 9
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nervo
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted'
daily, personally or by letter, at “ ELM LEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCEIt TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Asre. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“Press Extracts” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
Musgrove’s niggers, in “ Dahomey,” continue to draw
at the London Shaftesbury. When they were in New
York a cullud preacher is said to have prayed as follows :
—“ An’, 0 Lo’d ! pluck as bran’s frum de bu’nin’ dem
triflin’, good-fo’-nothin’ niggahs dats cuttin’ up monkey
shines in dem houses o' sin an’ ’niqiiity, de w’ite man’s
theaytres—’arnin’ de wages o’ sin in de hire o’ de debbil !
I know, O Lo’d ! dose high wages ; but, O Lo’d ! dat
ain’t no ’count ’long o’ de turrible wickedness an’ sinful-
ness o’ de business. Dev’s a bu’nin’ an’ blazin’ lake o’
fire for dem low-down niggahs, O Lo’d ! where no wages
won’t save ’em frum ’tarda! wrath ! Shoo ’em off dat
wicked stage, O Lo’d ! an’ back to de way o’ righteous-
ness an’ peace, eben if de wages ain’t so big ! ”
“ Leigh Woods There comes a time in the life of every
man when he is impelled to arise and speak the truth
that is in him, and when the urgent requests of his wife
not to make a fool of himself are as naught; so also are
the whispered beseeehings of his best girl and the warn-
ings of his friend’s wife (with whom he has no right to
be). It fell upon me the other night when I entered a
gas-lit portico at which a fiend in black collected one
shilling, and within which a young man in a white choker
and a dinner jacket was reciting Villon’s “ Ballade of
Dead Ladies.” “Where are the girls of yesterday?”
he yelled. “The wind has blown them all away,”
etc. His emphasis on the “all” annoyed me,
hut I struggled with the impulse and held it
down by the throat till the reciter had finished. Then it
got out of hand, and I arose and lifted up my voice just
as the young man had elevated his, and the mixed spirits
within me spoke thusly : “Young roan, you are a liar,
and the Villon whom you laud—the Villon who drove
Swinburne into ecstasies and long hair—was a fraud. His
poems were based upon imagination and a class of girls
who had a habit of dying suddenly through helping
themselves to other people’s belongings. His girls were
hanged by Louis Xl.’s executioner —justly hanged.
Young man, you ask where are the girls of yesterday ? I
tell you the girls of ten years ago, let alone those of
yesterday, are still prowling round asking for free theatre
passes for the sake of old times. The girl I took to
Chowder in the days before it became Clifton Gardens
and high class, for once only, just to see what
it was like, still sidles up to me when I
leave the theatre with the girl of to-night on my
strong right arm, and says in a winkful whisper, ‘He
bought me feathers once ! ’ The girl I hugged in the
boarding-house two years ago writes me agonised letters
full of ‘My love, my love, why have you left me without
a cent?’ There’s a pretty kettle of fish for you, and
neither the police nor the wind blows it away. The girl
I kissed, surreptitious like, on the stairs last night is, I’ll
bet a sovereign, waiting in exactly the same place for it
to happen again. No, my young friend, my brothers,
and fellow-men, the girls of yesterday and the last ten
years, are all here, right now ; most of them hard up, andi
all of them wanting money.” Then the heavenly impulse
gave out and I drifted through the door, leaving a heavy
and distinctly noticeable silence behind me.


We
I fRFSZSS&SSB
Send
F'i.* rvrm '» ■
Garden
Hose
Any-
where
And when you’ve
got it, you’ll know
it’s the best hose
you ever used.
We stake our
reputation on our
Garden Hose, and
we were the first
rubber manu-
facturers in
Australia
• *OO long and
too good a
reputation to risk
on interior Hose!
THERE’S NO BETTER CARDEN
HOSE THAN OURS.
THERE’S A GOOD DEAL NOT
SO GOOD.
SAMPLES and PRICES POST FREE. “WS
PERDRIAU & CO.,
Robber
Merchants,
270 George Street, Sydney.
ENGINEMAN’S MASTER KEY. -All subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations;
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also COLE’S,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK*
Sole Aus
V- V - \y ".V-; ,;;v.
dan Representatives foi
Boiler Feed Pump.
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd , London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited j London
Warren Webster & Co. New Jersey.
Enquiries Invited for
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
r •
TAKTGYE S
Oil Engines
Sole Australian Representatives—
BENNIE, TE AXLE & 00.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth and Coolgardie.
Sole Agents for
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
FAY-EGANWOODWORKING MACHINERY
ħ
h
5?
The “ Utopia ” Vise bolds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPBA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, .w.
PARKE & LACY GO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, etc., etc.
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
T. M. GOODALL & CO., «9 hay st., Sydney
have,n stock an djo ,akr.v E - Port able, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining 1 Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
r^'^lSE
SIZB, 61" x 3£" x s*.
are
and have
fjr Sale —
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all sizes
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R
& CO.. Ltd.
97 CLA.RERTCB STREET, SXDKTBY
The RAND DRILL CO., New York,
MAKE THE BEST
BOCK DRILLS»"»AIR COMPRESSORS
IjST the market.
LITTLE GIANT DRILL.
UNEQUALLED for SIMPLICITY OF CONSTRUCTION, DURABILITY, ECONOMY OF
The Little Giant and Slugger Drills.
The Imperial High-Speed Compressors.
The Imperial Pneumatic Tools.
The Harrison Coal-Cutting: Machines.
Particulars and Quotations •from the Agents
71 Clarence St-, Sydney.
N. QUTHRIDQE,
TD.
486 Collins St., Melbourne.
