

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet
R. <Gr„ WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
\
BITSTON’S Compound Dredge Engine.
IMEEZDICAI* CERTIFICATE.
“ Ararat (Victoria), 2. r )tb Aug., 1902.
*' During the past few years Eczema has become of very
frequent occurrence, especially in children In the treat-
ment of this troublesome affection the usual medicinal
remedies failed i/i many cases to give relief, and I was very
pleased to have a new preparation, named ‘ Oleac,’ put into
my hands for trial. I can recall to my mind three cases of
children in which the usual remedies had no beneficial
effect, and the application of ‘Oleac 1 according to the
? rinted directions removed all the irritation of the skin.
have also heard of many adults using the * Oleac 1 with
great benefit.— JAMES SMEAL, Surgeon, &c., Ararat ”
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulbbtin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLK DISTRIBUTING AGENTS t
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 Mt t street, SYDNEY
Have in Stock and to arrive, the following’: Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrifugal
Pumps, Steel Wire Ropes, Bucket Up Steel, Tyre Steel, Mild Steel, Manganese Steel for Pins and Bushes, &c.
Buckets, Grab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, &c., made to order. OSBORN’S STEEL.CASTINGS.
ENGINES & BOILERS, &c., FOR GOLD DREDGING
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Explosive. Cor CLARENCE & KING STS., SYDNEY
homo
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBART.
——
Radley’s Orient |jotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
j. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
Tawny Port
Invalid Port
Golden Sherry
V.O. Frontignac
Rich Gonstantia
9
No. 0 Claret
No. 1 Claret
Chablls
Tokay
Muscadine
Championship of Australia, Melbourne, 1902. Championship, Adelaide, 1902.
PERFECT
tA WATER|
>551 STS
IDICESTIONI
SHOULD
|BE{
I C E D
PIONEER
LEATHER
"belting l
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by ‘he Govts. of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
' and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 21 8 3J 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome nrooc 1
(any name or three initials) made of extra quah y
Set. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of F.O.V. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire loct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &o.
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Clyde Engineering C°y, Lt°
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
A
PROOF
USE
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf, Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies' 5 the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies r Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and everv description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order' HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.-Do not be
misted by any firms who say they will deliver for les3
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUR SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
f>«!irerO(l at, any Wharf er
\.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring’. Price,
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Colllns-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 26 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
T H £ Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
1-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants an*>
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia—
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 24—No. 1197. j
[Saturday, January 24, 1903
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


De Wet, History of the Three Years’ War, 6s, p. 6d.
Rose, Truth About the Transvaal, ss, postage 6d.
Carlyle, French Revolution, 3 vols. (Edt. by J. H. Rose),
255, p. Is bd. Mahan, Retrospect & Prospect, 10s, p. Bd.
Memoirs of Paul Kruger : Told by Himself, 12s od, p. Bd.
Mason, Leslie Farquhar, 2s 6d & 8s 6d, p. 6d.
Glyn, Reflections of Ambrosine, 6s, p. od.
Russell, A Londoner’s Log Book, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Pertwee, The Art ot Speaking, 2s 6d, p. 4d,
atthew Arnold’s Note Book, 4s 6d, p. 6d.
';e, New France and New England, 8s 6d, p. Bd.
£8 (Louis), The Jelasco Brig, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Mann, Olivia’s Summer, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Baynton (Barbara), Bush Studies, 2s 6d, p. 4d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (* Do©** Booth of Kins; St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London
BUSH HAN and
BUCCANEER.
The Life and Writings of Harry MoranL
Gives the true faofcs as to the Bush veldt Carbineers
and certain Australian scapegoats.
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & 00., Ltd*
SYIINBY AND BRISBANE.
Retafl from all Booksellers, and Post-Free from
“ The Bulletin " Office, Is. W.
“Cfce Bulletin” BooKlets.
¥&• Hidden Tide:
By Rodesio Quinn. Out of print.
A Hose of Regret;
Verses by James Hebbleth waite ; being
• No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 6d. ; postage, Id.
Tbe Circling Hearths:
By Rodekic Quinn. Na 111 of The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. 6d. ;
postage. Id.
Dreams in Flower:
By Louise Mack. N«u IV of The Bi,.
tin Booklets. .Enveloped, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 2d.
Nora — These dainty little editions of Australian verse
are printed in limited numbers , and are now nearly ex-
hausted. They will not be re-issued.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
For
GOUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS ol the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
UiEGISTERED).
iisss
IN TINS, Is. Gd
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONS L JIPTJON.
Invaluable for Siusjers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN'S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENT'S
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
Three Years War, by Christiaan Rudolf De Wet
London : Constable), seems at first glance a bald
md convincing narrative. As you read, the con-
viction deepens, and the baldness becomes a
jrave, often a grand, simplicity. With De Wet,
words are deeds. He recites his combats as con-
cisely as Peacock’s hero —
W> made an expedition ;
We met a host, and quelled it;
We forced a strong position,
And killed the men who held it.
The style of his war story recalls Caesar’s Com-
mentaries ; but De Wet wrote in Dutch, and the
English version has not the terse strength of
Caesar’s Latin. De Wet’s translator should have
steeped him in Biblical English: our current tongue
does not suit the severe, archaic, God-fearing
mind of the Boer warrior. Of course, the inci-
dents of modern war necessitate modern phrases,
and one could not refer De Wet's Dutch wholly to
the antique mode of King James’s translators ;
but we would have taken him farther in that
direction, so as to make Ids book a classic of Eng-
lish as well as a classic of war. With scholarship
and a little time, that result was attainable.
Sargent’s introductory portrait of De Wet
might have been painted at an English dinner-
table: it is almost genial. The reproduction, at
any rate, holds nothing of the stress and intensity
that De Wet’s face held even in some London
moments : it shows nothing of what his face must
have shown in the agonising moments of war.
Sargent painted what he saw, doubtless ; but he
needed only to stir De Wet’s memory and he
would have seen more. Atid a painter should fix
his subject at the moment of crisis, at the moment
when it fills with the highest emotion it can con-
tain. That was the theory of ancient Parrhasius ;
and modern criticism can but confirm it.
De Wet in London, for the most part, and as
seen at his hotel in the Strand, was a man deadly
sick. Travelling and interviewing broke down
the nerves which had withstood all the hardships
and anxieties of war. He complained, too, like
our Russian visitor, that his food did not do him
good : it was too -soft, too much cooked : his
primitive stomach yearned for the grilled flesh
and biscuit of the veldt. Then he was sur-
rounded by the spies of foes ; and his attitude,
like that of all the Boers but Botha, was
an attitude of reserve and suspicion. Sargent’s
picture shows nothing of this, nor was it desirable ;
but it is a picture of a distinguished guest merely,
and the picture of the heroic patriot has still to be
painted.
The book is deeply interesting. De Wet gives
no history of the war : he tells only what he did ;
what he ordered ; what he saw done. Often one
wishes the statement extended ; but De Wet evi-
dently felt the pen an outlander, and his hand was
eager to thrust it forth. Withal, the truth and
force of the story make it the best literature
that the war has yet borne : waiting a
Kinglake, it is at least possible to despise
Conan Doyle. The only accounts of the African
war tliat can have historical value at present are
the accounts of the men concerned in it: writers
at second-hand are still too close to the tumult.
That applies even to the Times history, plainly
biassed and inadequate, and tainted with the
eagerness of the book-publication department to
sell something on the instalment plan. Even the
clever impressions of the Blackwood contributor
seem to lose lustre by the side of De Wet’s stern,
colourless statement. The prose is the man, gun
in hand, tired horse under him, eyes ranging the
horizon ; and once more we are driven to Whit-
man’s mind : “ The glory of art, the sunshine of
letters, is simplicity.” Though this reflection of
the book comes not always with the translator,
but rather through him, sometimes in spite of
him.
In the preface, He Wet represents himself as
sitting down like Truthful James—to
tell in simple language what I know about the row
That broke up our society upon the
Orange River. He went to battle as a private
burgher; and rose to command the Free State
forces because he was obviously the man for the
command. The hour waited for many another,
and found De Wet. His qualifications were his
natural generalship and his determination never
to yield. Even at the end his voice was still
raised for the continuance of the war. If Cronje
had taken his advice, or even had taken the
opportunity of escape, the war might well have
been continued. And, but for the Kaffirs and the
traitor Boers who fought against their own
country, De Wet doe 3 not hesitate to say the war
would have had another issue.
De Wet’s book, in fact, has changed the writer’s
views of several things connected with the great
contest. He affirms (p. 99) that
had not so many of our burghers proved false to their
own colours, England—as the great Bismarck foretold
would have found her grave in South Africa.
Well, it would not be pleasant to Australia to
see England in her grave at any time. All faults
and merits reckoned, the English are about as
good as any other nation, and better than several
other nations; and when the hegemony of
America or Russia does come, there is no clear
probability that the world will be any better off.
At the present time, with a four-million population
to defend the continent, Australia certainly can-
not afford to see England in her grave. Times
have changed since the United States grew up ;
and there are nowadays too many earth-hungry
powers and ambition-bitten rulers for an
isolated Commonwealth’s security. The Com-
monwealth Cabinet does not seem to have
any time to spare for direct diplomatic rela-
tions with aggressive Russia or restless Japan;
not to mention other boundary extending or
colonies-desiring countries; and the Common-
wealth revenue seems hardly yet elastic enough to
provide for an army or a navy on a war footing.
Until we have grown a bit, we shall have
to stick to England; and all we can do is
to see that England makes as little as pos-
sible a fool or a knave of herself—pending
our arrival at the 25-million population-mark, and
our establishment of (say) half-an-ammumtion-
factory, seeing that nobody seems to care about
the urgent necessity of getting a whole one.
The writer ventures to think that any Aus-
tralian who will look at things as they are, does
not need to wait for European war to feel very
frightened about the safety of his country. And
if Australia can be frightened—in time —into
general military training and the creation of a
national navy : who knows what curses our chil-
dren may have to turn into thanksgiving’
There is another point: the concentration-
cam pS. De Wet’s book establishes (for the writer)
that Britain could not win the war as long as
the commandoes could disband to the farms,
carried on by the women and Kaffirs; get fresh
horses, provisions, clothing, ammunition, and
fresh heart; and come out to fight once more.
Given that Britain had to win, then the country
had to be laid waste. Given that the country
had to be laid waste, then the women and
children had to be carried into shelter—or
left to perish of exposure and starvation.
Therefore, the concentration camps were inevit-
able : and the point for criticism was not the
devastation, not the camps, but the greed of gold
and empire which caused the war and necessarily
brought devastation in its train ; and the shame-
ful manner in which the camps were “organised”
and conducted to the murder of so many thousand
innocents
De Wet would question this statement; but it
is justified by the language of others and himself
at the Vereeniging meeting. But for the diffi-
culty of dealing with the women and children, the
speeches read as if that meeting would have voted
war instead of peace.
Another lesson of De Wet’s book is this: the
Boers could not conquer themselves, or the British
might never have conquered them. At the
beginning of the war the Boer could hardly be
driven to fight without his wife and his waggon.
The wives and the waggons, hindering Cronje
from moving rapidly, took away the last chance
but one which Cronje’s mulish obstinacy left him.
De Wet gave him another chance, but he would
not abandon his beloved laager. So some 4000
fighting men were taken prisoners at Paardeberg;
and (says De Wet) “the effects of this blow . . .
made themselves apparent to the very end of the
war. ”
Then, through treachery or cowardice, Prinsloo
surrendered another 3000 men. “One could
gnash one’s teeth,” says De Wet, “to think that
a nation should rush so blindly to its ruin.”
Right to the end of the war, the rank-and-file
of the Boers lacked discipline on the one hand,
and intelligence and initiative on the other.
Cronje’s pigheadedness was reflected in the whole
nation ; and thus De Wet missed many a well-
planned blow. His soldiers would not obey
some orders, at some times; and he could
only stifle his grief and begin afresh.
Yet, with all his difficulties, despite all
his nation’s losses, he affirms he could have
won to final victory—but for the traitors,
the “hands-uppers,” the Boers who took service
with the British and taught the British how to
scout and fight. Let Australians conceive a
Russian conquest of Australia, ask themselves
what they would think of Australians who trained
Russian guns on their own kindred and
whether the Boers can forgive or ought to forgive
their countrymen who strangled their li jetty.
Lord Roberts had overwhelming forces : he had
250,000 men against 50,000 or 00,000 ; but Dew et
has no high opinion of Lord Roberts s military
capacity. The engagement of Sauna s Post lasted
for four hours; it was fought 17 miles from
Bloemfontein, where Lord Roberts had 00,000
men : yet Lord Roberts sent- no reinforcements.
The Boers lost three killed and jive wounded. IHe
British lost 350 dead and wounded, 480 prisoners,
and seven guns. All through the war, *-' e
Wet saw it, this disproportion runs. At Mosterts-
hoek the Boers lost one killed and six wounded—
the slain man being shot after the white nag was
hoisted. The British had 100 casualties, and 470
were taken prisoners. The British were hemmed
in' before sundown ; they surrendered at eleven
next day ; De West had 800 men ; tnere was a
great British force at Reddersburg, five miles
away,—and no reinforcements were sent.
Many passages invite quotation; but space is
wanting. De Wet, wh® urges loyalty to the new
Government, is usually content to refer the inci-
deuts and the result of the war to the will of God.
If the burghers had obeyed orders, he declares
with some human irritation, Kitchener would
have been taken prisoner, Lord Roberts’s army
would have starved to death in Pretoria.
But whenever he reflects he falls back upon
his formula of consolation • it is the Lord s
will ; the Lord’s will be done. For a for-
mula of inspiration he might have taken tins
sentence of his own —Freedom is a pearl■ of such
value that no man since the world began has been
able to set a price upon it.
John'Liddell Kelly—shall we take him seriously,
or take him with a smile? He takes himself
seriously. His book Heather and Fern : Songs of
Scotland and Maori/and (Wellington ; printed for
the' author by the New Zealand .Times .Company,
Ltd. ; 1902) bears bhe stout, uncompromising label
Poems !—and the man who understands what
Poetry has been, can be, may be, needs to be very
sure of his category before he makes thatgrand
acceptance of himself. There is a preliminary
portrait of John at his roll-desk ; and we are pre-
pared with a priori affidavit that a fellow who
can keep the flat, convenient, handy-for staclcing-
and-postponing-thiiigs top of a roll-desk as bare
and polished as Liddell keeps his, will never be of
much account as a poet, whatever his capacity as
a business man.
A survey of Heather and Fern—27s closely-
printed pages followed by 12 pages of notes —
backs the affidavit. Kelly is another example of
the Lowland Scot as we find him nowadays—a
douce, canny, upright, intelligent, amorous, hard-
working chap, with the natural Bard in him
crushed down by centuries of narrow life and
severe labour, yet gallantly and continually
struggling to arise and shine. Aou see this
romantic ancestor lurking in all good Scots (there
are no really bad Scots); and at the most sur-
prising moments he will come out into a cold,
critical world and prove that the survival of the
untittest is still possible.
This by way of putting things where they
belong, in the interest of those Standards Which
Must Be Kept Up. But we are glad Kelly has
published —for two reasons, or maybe three.
First: it is good for a man to justify himself to
himself: to say, “Well, here’s something of mine,
such as it is: it’s an effort, an accomplishment,
however insignificant.” Often one has to hurl
stones at vocal dogs; but we would not have one
dog dumb. Let ’em all sing ! —or if they cannot
sing, let them howl: Australia has ample Space
and Silence for a retreat in extremity. Second :
People are not all fitted to apprehend the high
delights of Poesy ; and there is a very large class
of readers who will find excellent inspiration, and
an air as rare as they can breathe, while they
ramble with K. about Parnassus’ lower slopes.
He has honest thought to give them, and shrewd
mother-wit, and warm, manly philosophy, and a
sense of natural and artistic beauty that can be
seen behind the hedge of his stiff lines, vainly
trying to climb over. The third reason will be
given to Kelly himself, with a drop of whiskey,
whenever he calls.
The good thing in Kelly’s - book, poetically
speaking, is the sonnet that heads this page. But
there are many excellent newspaper verses, in-
cluding several from The Bulletin. The address
to “The Soldier ” has pith and sense to back its
satire : it should be reprinted pnce a year at least.
Some sprightly sentiment is in the “Hymn to
Eros.” “In China,” “The Making of God,”
“At Mount Magdala,” “Re-Incarnation,” all
hold a stimulating quality of thought, phrased
forcibly. There are some tolerable versions of
Heine. But Heather and Fern contains 275 mixed
pages, and many of the pages contain stuff like
this —
Bright be thy Jubilee,
Heaven’s smile rest oil thee—
Victoria ! Victoria!
Queen of each free land,
Australia, New Zealand !
Victoria!
Or this—
All honour and fame to the daring band
Who thus in the post of danger stand, —
Who bravely risk their limbs and lives
To save our dear little babes and wives ;
All praise to the Auckland Fire Brigade,
Their name and their fame shall never fade . . .
Alas !
This (from an article in Dec. Scribner's ) is the
first scrap of , energetic, rather dull, well-ad-
vertised, R. if. Davis’s writing we have really
enjoyed—
Before I can share the popular admiration for the
matador there is one humble participant in the bull-fiirht
who must be eliminated. He is the chulo, or attendant,
who, armed only with a rake, scrapes the sand ever the
blood, and offsa'ddles-the dead horses.
From a stage-manager’s point of view, his presence in
the ring is a grave mistake. There is no doubt but
that his life is just as valuable as is the life
of the matador to tire matador, but invariably it
is the chulo who is the last to leave the arena. And
even when he does make his exit he goes sulkily and
under protest. By his manner he gives you to under-
stand that the bull is interfering with his work, and tha;
he regards him as a nuisance. Again and again, after
the matadors have vaulted to safety you will see the
humble super, rake in hand, and with one foot on the
step of a barrier, waiting patiently for the bull to sweep
by and permit him to .continue wirh hisjhoeing. Hesteps
out of the way of the bull with no more braggadocio or
assumed terror than he would show in avoiding a tram-
car. His business is to sweep the arena, and all through
the fight he arid his humble brethren, cursed though thev
be with the most enticing of firemen's shirts, continue to
go about their own business while the raging bull and
the stars of their profession disport themselves in the
limelight.
The stranger cannot help but observe that the man
with the rake is in danger just as great as is the man
with the sword, and that he regards it not at all. He
should be taught to do so. He should be made to show
open fear of the hull. As it is, he spoils the dramatic
effect. It is irritating, after having been thrilled at the
sight of all the bespangled comedians darting, like gold-
fish, for safety, to note that one old man with a hoe still
remains whence all bpt him have fled, industriously
picking up the cigars that were thrown to the popular
idols, but which they were in too great haste to collect.
Is it familiarity which has bred this contempt forthi
bull in the mind of the chulos, or is it that perhaps tin
bull not even to the matador is as dangerous as thi
matador would like you to think ? There was never ye’
a hull-fighter who was not also something of an actor,
and certainly it is to his advantage to lead the people to
believe that* the bull is a fearful and savage opponent
For the more dangerous the ball, the more credit to the
mar, who flaunts him. The matador’s success, his popu-
larity, his livelihood depend upon the public holding that
opinion. So he plays the part which he is paid to act.
The chulo is not paid to act. He is paid only to rake
sand. He knows if bull-fighting ceased he could make a
living sweeping a crossing. So he does not disguise his
opinion of the bull, nor help to sustain its reputation as
a savage brute. Perhaps his opinion, being unpre.b.-
diced, is worth considering.
«
L. : James Drummond and C. B. Upton, m the
Life and Lett fir a of James Martineau, relate
that —
One Sunday, at dinner time, James was found seated on
a little stool, with a great Bible resting on a chair. He
was eager to know what chapter in Isaiah he was reading,
and announced that he had read from the beginning of
Genesis to that place “since chapel.” On his mother’s
rebuking him for the exaggeration, he promptly added,
“ Skipping the nonsense, you know, mamma !”
Wise child 1
S.T.S. : A recent Auibr. phrase about bathing:
“ To with a plunge my sluggish wits excite,” is surely the
most-split infinitive on record. Concerning this literary
sin, who first discovered its sinfulness? —and when? It
does not seem to have been thought worthy of scornful
remark until within the last few years. Information
would also be welcome as to the moral difference between
a split infinitive and a split anvthing-else. Why is it
worse to say “ to easily beat ’’ than “ will easily beat,” or
“ has easily beaten ” ? Yet the latter examples are re-
proved rarely.
»
The Little White Bird, by J. M- Barrie. The
book of an exhausted author. In oor ain kail-
yardie they extol the delicaoy (i.e., weakness) and
the refinement (i.e., pallor) of these faint sketches
strung on a thread of feeble story; but Barrie
knows better—all these weaklings know better.
Thoreau, Stevenson, Barrie—gifted with the
vision of the Artist, how they sigh for the pulse
of a Man! , \,’
Tales about Temperaments, by “John Oliver
Hobbes.” The author confesses to her difficulty
in finding a title suitable for two small plays and
three small stories. Yet Crumbs Swept Up was
waiting, and there would have been no difficulty
about copyright. In truth Mrs. Craigie ages (her
good work has been praised duly), and «fce has
become, like Lepidus,
one that feeds
On abjects, orts, and imitations,
not of others, but of her brilliant self. The good
thing in the book is a one-act drama, A Repent-
ance —staged at St. James’s Theatre, London, and
(the author regrets) unappreciated by the English
public. But what good artistic thing, lacking the
seal of centuries or the glare of advertisement,
ever was appreciated by the English public ’
. On Commando, by Dietlof Van Warmelo
(Methuen). A simple fighting Boer’s account of
his fighting in the war that crushed Boer inde-
pendence. At p. 33 evidence is reiterated—
After the Jameson Raid, which was really the
beginning of the war, the Transvaal Government recog-
nised the dangerous position in which it stood, as an
isolated Republic, and was therefore obliged to arm
itself with the most modern of military equipments.
Before the Jameson Raid race hatred was dying out
rapidly. The consequence of the raid was that the gap
between Boer and Englishman widened, the sympathy
of the Uitlanders for us grew deeper, and the Afrikander
Bond grew stronger.
Yet Cecil Rhodes, the instigator of the Raid,
the man that lit the torch of war, died (they say)
babbling “So little done ! so much to do!” So
little done ! He had only brought death, directly
or indirectly, to fifty thousand human beings, and
ruin and wretchedness to a hundred thousand
more ; he had only delivered over a peaceful coun-
try to fire and sword, destroyed happiness, desolated
homes, and roused to a fierce conflagration thedying
embers of the feud between the races;—and
he said “So little done!” Why, even the
ambition of Nero might have been satisfied with
Rhodes’s work ! And Nero was no hypocrite; he
never deceived others or himself; he never posed
as a philanthropist. Of the two we rather
prefer Nero.
Lavinia, by Rlioda Broughton (Macmillan). h
tale like the rest of Rhoda’s: and her style
improves. She writes with some regard to reason;
and domesticated women might read worse books
—there are many offered at the book-shops.
The Ghost Camp, or The Avengers, by “Rolf
Boldrewood ’’(Macmillan). Once give up the notion
that Browne is a novelist or a story-writer, and his
books become readable reminiscencesof Australian
life and character. In that category they have
permanent value for us ; and The Ghost Camp,
from the Australian point of view, is moderately
interesting. B. has a good eye ; he has a good
memory ; and, as. a recorder, he is all the better
beoause he reflects" the ideas of his generation.
A.G.S.
IMMORTALITY.
At twenty-five I cast my horoscope
And saw a future with all good things rife —
A firm assurance of eternal life
In worlds beyond, and in this world the hope
Of deathless fame. But now my sun doth slope
To setting, and the toil of sordid strife, .
The care of food and raiment, child and ivife,
Have dimmed and narrowed all my spirit’s scope.
Eternal life —a river gulphed in sands !
Undying fame —a rainbow lost in clouds!
What hope of immortality remains
Biit this: “ Some soul that loves and understands
Shall save thee from the darkness that enshrouds
And this: “ Thy blood shall course in others’
veins.”
JOHN LIDDELL KELLY.


WiNCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
Send your__rf
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The Leading Salesmen,. Full Values and Quick lietuvns.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Commission 3 Per Cent. t;o the G-ro-wer
°* x I-arKe and. Small Accounts Alike.
S. FREEMAN # SONS [JfIUTEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD-OFFICE : WTNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
CJ> 9
ft®
5800
CBB
5807
5808
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
GUARANTEE.—ShouId any ot our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bara «
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
, _ Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, 1«. 20.
Quality not toetrtesr- in a Guinea Pip©.
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
0.8.8.
0.8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6]C.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Sterling
each.
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/• each.
0.8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/- each.
Silver Mounted Rim and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case,
8/6 each.
C. 8.8. Presentation Companion, con-
taining' two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Red Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 15/6 each.
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
P»
sIBI SI.
*'•
Hi i
*ll
TO
RICHMOND, VA. '
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States,
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public. We
feel sure that one trial will be sufficient to con-
vince Smokers that “ SOLID SHOT ” is the finest
Tobacco on the market. Splendid aroma, and
does not bite the tongue.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
WHOLESALE PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
Every Man may
Possess It.
Are you a weak man ? Are you nervous, fretful and
gloomy ? Is your sleep broken ? Have you pains and aches
in different parts of your body ? Is your back weak and
painful ? Do you feel that you are breaking up ? Are you
Rheumatic and Gouty? Have you Yaricocele? These are
all the result of the waste of vital force. The gentle stream
of electricity from DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC
BELT going into the weak nerves for hours every night soon
replaces all the lost energy and makes every nerve and muscle
perfect. It cures permanently in every case.
'IS-
Wear Dr. McLaughlin’s
Electric Belt.
To the man whose vitality is exhausted and who finds
himself, while still young in years, a broken-down wreck of
what he ought to be, the DR. McLAUGHLIN ELECTRIC
BELT is full of encouragement. It is the success of the age
in elevating the condition of men suffering from impaired
vitality.
It is worn while you sleep. For six or eight hours every
night it pours a steady stream of electricity into the nerve
centres, saturating the weakened tissues with its life. This
is strength. From it comes the vim, the energy, the fire of
perfect physical and mental action. It renews the health and
happiness of all men.
Is unlike any other appliance made; it does all we claim for it; it is the only Electric Belt THAT CURES WITHOUT THE AID OF DRUGS-
THE DAY OF FORTY GUINEA DRUG FEES IS PAST. No more tremendous prices to pay. All over the world our BELT has driven quacks from business-
Where it comes in, they have to go. It feeds the hungry nerves and tissues, develops by natural methods the tissues and organs; it gives life, vigor and vitality
to every part of the worn-out system. It is ages ahead of anything compared “as similar.” There is no other like it, they are all simply poor imitations.
OUR TESTIMONIALS COflE FROH ALL AUSTRALASIA,
12 Durham-street, Port Melbourne.
Dear Sirs,—lt is with great pleasure that I am able to give you m/
testimony as to the wonderful curative powers of your High-giade
B.lt. I Was suffering for a long time from rheumatism, lumbago, congestion
of liver and kidneys, and chronic dyspepsia, and was .rndly run own »
now after four months wearing your wonderful Belt, I am free from ; i H my
former troubles, and am my own man again. I give you this so that 3
publish it in the interests of fellow-sufferers. Anyone may call upon me it
they want further information, and I will gladly give it. gxEVFN LEE ’
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. , • n.n
Dear Sirs, -I am pleased to say that since I have worn Belt
I have deriv
in every way,
work preventing a rapid
later on.
ved great benefit from the use of it, and am feeling much stronger
ly, though I have not as yet fully recovered, the nature of mj
mting a rapid recovery, but I will send you a still further leport
I consider your Electric Belt the best remedy I have ever used, and as
1 have recommended it to my friends.—l remain^yours^smceie^y,^
Mt. Crosby, Queensland.
Mittagong, N.S.W.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Gentlemen,—The first night I wore your Belt I slept splendidly, and have
improved wonderfully since—in fact, I can eat anything, do anything, and
sleep anywhere. Nothing in the way of drugs did me any good before.
Wishing you every success, and trusting that other sufferers will procure
one of your Belts, as I am sure they will never regret it, —-
I remain, yours gratefully, R. J. BARR.
Angel Terrace,
Coolgardie, \V,A.
Dear Sirs,—l got your Belt after all the doctor's here had given me up
—after all the hospitals had passed me as an incurable. I had Sciatica so bad
that I could neither work nor walk. I wore the Belt two nights, and the
pain stopped. In a week I had no pain and began to mend ; in a month I
was out prospecting again, and I would like to meet a man more grateful to
you than I am. I don’t think I ever will.
P. W. KELLY.
Our Chief-of=Staff is the only Registered Specialist In Australasia who devotes his entire time to the exclusive use of Electricity.
n,6uh r „^ r i.M..h S |dj^ E jß^ £ .
"r^Srh, 1 “elling a chL W p! F,,a T,„. »■„! g., - D..-X I Ml .'V.
Write for FREE BOOK.
For the benefit of all persons interested in this
Grand Remedy, we publish a Beautifully Illus-
trated Book, giving outs, and showing how we
apply Electricity in all CHRONIC AILMENTS.
It gives also many names of people cured. Write
for it. You may find the names of some of your
friends in it. Call and have a Free Test. See the
ease and comfort with which our Belt can be used.
Don’t delay, but call to day, and get a book. It’s
full of good things a sick man likes to see. Advice
and consultation, either in the office or by mail,
are absolutely free. Write or call.
TLjr -
Jr. |Dc[augh!in go.,
85 King Street, Sydney.
Meibrurne Offices : 167 E Swanston Street.


pa
pj
|||
p|
m
m
H
El
General Electric
Incandescent Lamps.
THE EDISON LAMP
Absolutely
THE BEST!
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750
were purchased by the Melb.
City Council.
LONG LIFE. HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
GEDEML EIECTIIC Cl.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Melbourne and Sydney.
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, etc.,
also in Stock.
kWk
4
Oldsmobile
is the viost practical automobile made, and is sold for the lowest price
consistent with good work. It is a runabout for either business or
pleasure* and requires no experience to run.
The construction is the simplest of any automobile—there is no
fire, no boiler to burn out, nothing to watch but the road ahead,
nothing to get out of order.
It will run over any passable road; climbs steep hills; has a speed
of over 25 miles an hour; is almost noiseless; will go 30 miles on one
gallon of gasoline. It is always ready for instant use and starts at
ease from the seat.
There are now over 5,000 in use. In America they sell for $650.00
(^T l 3°)» and can be sold in this
country for only a little more.
Write to us and we will quote
you a price delivered at your
nearest port, and will mail you
handsome illustrated book giving
complete information.
Agents wanted in unoccupied
foreign territory.
Olds Motor Works
Detroit? Mich.,
U. S. A.
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom-
nended by the Medical Facultv wherever introduced.
Aertex Cellular Underwear is a Sure Preventative against Chills
mm
■y
n
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Pitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body—
-9s 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-6s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 78 6d
i!s
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations*
High or Low Necks.
s. d.
.White Cotton, trimmed
' Lace 5 6
.White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. .. 7 6
[White Cotton, trimmed
| Lace 9 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..9 0
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
►
A pvipir Co\\ trlo t 4 White Cotton, trimmed Embroidery,
LCllUldr vdltlllloCo* o g White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices.
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, gs 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List —Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
Sole Agents. 73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. Cd. to 11s. 6d.
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
a. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. .. 15 6
02 ,, long waist, 14.Jin deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. ,. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14Jin., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Biding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips .. 15 0
D1 same shape as 01, Watch-
spring Steels .. ..86
The Dark Room Dispensed With!
Write for Particulars of the Wonderful
KODAK - -
DAYLIGHT -
DEVELOPING
MACHINE -
To be Obtained of all Dealers, op of
KODAK, Limited,
284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Please Mention this Paper.
TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tatter sail’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients -will please forwax*d Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for evei*y £l, and so on.
OW OPEN
IAUNCESTON CUP—Launceston, Tas., Jan. 28 50,000 at 5/1
NEWMARKET, H’CAP-Flemington, Vic., Feb 28 100,000 at 5/1
AUSTRALIAN CUP—Flemington, Vic., March 3 50,000 at 5/1
DONCASTER H’CAP-Randwick, N.S.W., April 11 25,000 at 5/1
SYDNEY CUP—Randwick, N.S.W., April 13 ... 25,000 at 5/1
Subscribers will , please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in IhJDBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despa ftch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARC PI
DELIVERV CO. doing business with Tasmania. ""


“A friend
in need is a
friend in-
deed.” This
is an old
proverb,
but as true
as it is old.
Here is just
such a friend.
Never be
without it. Keep it
close at hand all the
time.
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
It will prove a good friend when you
have a fresh cold, bringing immediate
relief. You will find it equally true
in old colds, bronchitis, whooping-
cough, asthma.
And you will declare it “the best
friend in the world” if you will use
it for an irritable throat or weak lungs.
It acts as a strong tonic, clearing up
the throat, giving tone to the relaxed
tissues, and greatly strengthening the
lungs.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure you
get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr- J. C. Aver * Co.. Lowell, Mass.. U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/ . Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations. entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
A GIFT for the LADIES.
Sfll
We make this
SPECIAL OFFER
to Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
The Bunch,
/ ™ Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS, with
OSPREYS, in Black, White or Cream.
Post Free. Send Postal Notes.
Mißler’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention Tiie Bulletin.
A
FLUID
OIL
ORUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
80AP8
DIBINFECTORS
inhalers
FUMICATORB
•amu
IMMISI
mi.
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON.
POISONOUS
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYCENATEB
THE AIR.
/ SJOVBxJuUnj 3IUIJOJ
\ - sajpußQ Jmjdjng
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
“HOW TO DISINFECT ” Book Free.
THo “SANITAS” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits eease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
©very other remedy had failed. Price 4/6 and lli»
ot testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS. STORES. ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS'
sayers, allport & potter, Sydney.
Prepared by I. W. NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
kstabl.shed 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle. *
has money to lend
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teeck’ F.I.A , FS ’ IF ' E ' WII,C,,COMBB - E *l- *•»*•
HEAD OFFICE; 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON. S,c„.a, r
Commercial
Du esy,
£l4 109.
H. HilLier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
£2T Send for a
Catalogue.
Rent Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
n. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
s
A Great
Saving
..TO..
HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS, m
CRATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WSTHC.U/ SK.Li.ED LABOR.
Absolutely the best and simplest OO A
Machine in the market. Price
TUBES CONTAIN 571bs. GAS.
CAPACITY OF CYLINDERS lOgals. WATER.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Smaller Machines on same Principle, £2O
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials from,
people who have used the Machine fur years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
Office: 101 QUEEN ST.. MELBOURNE
Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
.... B 2h -P- *0 100h.p.
KING MARINE OSL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall!
" V
Noiseless Uuderwater . . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KINU ENGINE— ONE LEVEK CONTIiOLif THE WHOLE.
2Va: ° I3ER M O T T & C O ivr F* a. KT Y,
30 PITT STREET, BYX3ATIRY-.
WINCHESTER
METALLIC CARTRIDGES.
URING our 30 years of gun making, we have
discovered many things about ammunition that
no one could learn in any other way. Our
discoveries in this line, together with years of
experience manufacturing ammunition, enable us
to embody many fine points in Winchester
Metallic Cartridges for rifles and revolvers which make them
superior in many ways to all other brands upon the market.
Winchester cartridges in all calibers are accurate, sure-fire
and exact in size; being made and loaded in a modern
manner by skilled experts. If you want
INSIST UPON HAVING WINCHESTER MAKE OF CARTRIDGES.
WE STOCK ALL
WINCHESTER GOODS.
‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd
ELIZABETH ST., TIELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
French’s Acting Edition.
Bare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Boolee Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
GOOD FOR ALLI
Kll Chbmists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre.
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and sriving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
US’ For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra-
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quiekly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane : Mr. GORDON. 92 GfWr«
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Night.
The twilight drowns,
And . on sea and hill
he moonlight silvers the sea-mist damp ;
-tne black cape frowns
And the ripples trill
On beaches scarred by the breakers’ tramp.
And Day-tongues die,
For they fear the dark,
iiut voices born of the listening Night
Whisper and sigh
To the brown grass, “ Hark ! ”
And stars cease blinking to hear aright.
The mountain speaks
To its distant kin ;
Stray sea-birds chatter at vague alarms,
And tumbling creeks
With a babbling din
Come down to sleep in the Ocean’s arms.
A fish will splash,
Or a ripple break
In louder whispers on sand and stones—
It seems to crash
Till the echoes wake,
So still and soft are the Night-wind’s tones .
So soft and low
That my thoughts go out
Beyond this world to a world to be,
Seeking to know
If the winds will shout,
Or Night lie cold on that Last Long Sea.
M.L.
QUILP N.
The Dead Sun.
The Sun went out. The earth below
Resplendent lay in rose and gold,
With songs of mirth resounding low—
When o er its face the Darkness rolled.
The Darkness rolled, not as the night:
No warmth of loves and hopes it made;
But chill and drear it drove the light
The Darkness rolled and rolled and stayed.
The Earth of old is still unchanged,
The trees, the seas, the flowers are there,
Its subtle harmonies arranged
As when the sunlight clove the air.
’Tis just as beautiful to see
As when it weltered in the light—
What solace is the thought to me
When nought is patent to my sight ?
What value is the silky sea ?
What use the show’ring blossoms shed ?
What matters all? I cannot see
When you, my life, my Sun, are fled.
lam not blind. The blind are free
To feel the joys of heart and head ;
The Earth a Paradise may be ;
I cannot see. My Sun is dead.
N.C.
Comrades.
Riven by conflicting ainjs—
Scarce a comrade proves sincere;
Fretted by a dozen claims,
Comradeless at forty year
If by chance a wistful face
Swiftly blots out grosser ends,
Comes a thought of rare solace—
She and I—we could be friends !
And we often chanced to meet,
Ever drifting, she and I,
’Mid plebeians of the street,
Where the chimneys touch the sky ;
Or perchance on sunny days,
Stretched at ease to rhyme a theme
On the sands of chosen bays,
She would pass me, eyes a-dream.
Soon I looked to find her there
When the gods smiled from the skies—
Sunshine caught in tawny hair,
Sea-blue merged in twilight eyes—
Till one day a kindly fate
Blent her wandering gaze with mine,
And I knew that, soon or late,
Comrades we should be, divine.
So two dreamers’ thoughts were blent
While a-list to laughing waves ;
So a comrade's hand was lent
When such thoughts found early graves;
Men might throw or lift a gage—
Salt sea-spray has blither ways'!
And while incense steep’d the page
There was music in the phrase.
So we pored o’er Plato’s scroll
While we spoke of love in jest,
Comrades sworn to conquer dole,
Dreamers pledged to better best.
Never friendship held such charms,
Hopes and aims so closely knit,
Claspt in such creative arms
Love was nought compared to it.
But one noonday—smiled the skjq
Bird-songs thrilled the magic air—
Hand touched hand and eye met eye
With a look of mute despair !
Dew-wet eye and swelling breast
Spoke surrender half-afraid,
And we knew the comrade-test
Failed for us, mere man and maid !
Jested we no more of love —
Sweeter boon the gods ne’er gave !
Breathed the air around, above
Daintier incense on the wave ;
Rarer gems enriched the page,
Softer music crooned the phrase,
We who held a comrade sage
Laughed and sang a lover’s praise !
THE HERMIT.


k Quiet
Nip“...
SEES
Four Crown
Whisky
PAINTERS’ COLIC
BVIDEKTOE
VALUABLE TO THE TRADE.
The Case of
Mr. F. DAVISON.
(by our reporter.)
The annual exhibitions of pictures painted
by local artists receive more appreciation
from the public every year. The gene-
rous support accorded to such ex j
hibits serves as a graceful acknow-
ledgement of the advancement made by
students. The persistent and painstak-
ing efforts of our painters have an educa-
tional effect upon their numerous admirers,
who are agreeably made familiar with de-
pictions of typical Australian life and
scenery. Another division of painters to
whom appreciative recognition is due are
those who embellish and decorate our
private residences and business establish-
ments. Mr. Francis Davison, of No. 27
Wyndham-street, Alexandria, belongs to
this class, in connection which he had
something to say of an interesting charac-
ter;—
“ I think,” said Mr. Davison, “ that the
unhealthy materials used in my trade had
something to do with giving me years of
suffering. Painters are especially liable to
colic, which inflicts the most indescribable
pains in the bowels. My cause of trouble
was principally in the side ; at least, it was
there I was attacked first. The agony was
so great that I used to break out in a state
of perspiration through sheer excess of pain.
Often when walking down the street 1 was
suddenly seized with such dreadful parox-
ysms, which completely doubled me up,
making it impossible for me to walk for
several minutes.”
“ How long were you thus afflicted ? ”
“ For fully five years I did not know
what it was to be free from pain, which
afterwards appeared in the stomach with
increased violence. Indeed, the piercing
shafts of torture which assailed that region
made me moan with pain, from which I
hardly ever experienced a respite. I
rapidly became so exhausted and worn out
that my friends were anxious about my
condition, and my family were in great dis-
tress whenever they heard me groaning. A
little relief was obtained through the ap-
plication of hot fomentations and various
kinds of poultices; but the ease only lasted
about a minute, and then I could feel the
pains gradually coming back, until its full
force burst upon me again with increased
severity, and prostrated me with its
violence. I was often incapable of going
to work, and even when 1 did go 1 was
afraid to undertake the perilous positions
which painters have sometimes to occupy.
I avoided as much as possible ascending
ladders, in case of a sudden seizure of my
trouble rendering me powerless to hang
on.”
“ You appear to have had a bad time?
“ Yes, I had. There was a feeling of un-
certainty and anxiety in my mind every
morning as to what the day would bring
forth. Quite unaccountably, I could not
discard from my thoughts the notion that a
dreadful accident, or some impending evil,
was in store for me.”
“ Perhaps you are naturally nervous ? ”
“No ; quite the reverse. Before my
sickness came on I did not know whr t fear
or nervousness were. I could go out in the
dead of night and confront any danger with-
out the least hesitation. But now my
nerves were completely shattered. I was
afraid of my own shadow. Naturally
enough I sought medical advice, a doctor
visiting and prescribing for me regularly.
This occurred when I was living in Queens-
land, and I don’t mind telling you that by
this time I wa3 reduced t> a skeleton
through my inability to eat, which I very
seldom did. I had no appetite whatever ;
but, knowing that if I did not eat a little
to keep body and soul together I would
soon die of starvation, I used to try and
brace myself up when meal times came
round, and take my seat at the table.
Directlvthe food was placed tksreon I was
overcomb with a 'tsrribhi v'kness the
stomach. Hurriedly vacating my chair, I
used to go outside, where continual retch-
ing brought on insuffeiable headaches and
giddiness By way of variety my stomach
occasionally wanted food. I felt as though
I couid really enjoy a little, but a few
minutes after swallowing anything I had
severe pains in the chest, and swelling, be-
sides acute sensations under my shoulders,
it was a very rare thing to Lave a night s
sleep, although I went to bed every evening
feeling quite exhausted and done up. I
was accustomed to rise in the morning with
a nasty taste in the mouth, after turning
restlessly about nearly all night, with my
limbs aching with intense weariness, and
the pains in my side still gnawing away,
As though to ald their quota to the evils I
have already mentioned, my throat was
parched and dry, and constipation was
another trouble. A feeling of drowsiness
never left me, and, combined with my
general weakness, I appeared like a man
half dead. The prospect of getting through
a day’s work in this condition was not a
very bright one, and many a time I had to
come home unable to continue my work. I
really thought I was done for.”
“ What gave you that impression?”
“ Because my doctor could not cure me.
I then came to New South Wales, and en-
gaged another doctor, under whose care I
remained with the same unsatisfactory re-
sults till my hopes were exhausted. The
med cines prescribed by both doctors were
utterly useless in every respect.”
“ Did you consult a third doctor ? ”
“No; I managed without. One of my
mates, who had suffered as I was suffering,
told me he was cured by Clements Tonic,
even when his medical adviser had failed.
That hint was good enough for me, I
bought some Clements Tonic, aud when I
had taken three bottles I felt quite a
different man. My pains in the side were
much easier, and all the other ailments had
been quite cured. Appetite, sleep, and
strength returned in a short time, and de-
spondency gave way to cheerfulness. Three
more bottles of Clements Tonic cured me in
every detail, and I have not been troubled
with my old sickness since, and I give you
my authority to publish these remarks
simply out of gratitude, for I trust a relation
of my sufferings and cure may help other
poor sufferers on the way to recovery.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, I'rakcis Davison, of 27 Wyndhamstreet, Alex-
andria, in the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely de-
clare that 1 have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of three folios, and con-
secutive.y numbered from one to three, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
mv full permission to publish in any way my state-
ments—which I give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing any payment ; and 1 make this solemn declara-
tion conscientiously believing the same to be true,
and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act,
1900. '
& ■
A
vt-l*
Subsoribed and deolared at Alexandria, this fourth
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two,
before me,
W. B. CARTER, J.P.
ROB ROY pens
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by . the same process and at the same works, as the well*
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
80 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
Sold by all
Stationer* In It
varieties in
6d., Is. dc gross boxUa
HXNKB, WELLS & CO., Bltfmintfkaln,
FOR the bush workrr
uuu,
all
etc.
will
ZAM- BU K CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Unclose,Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
THE PANAMA HAT CRAZE.
This can be indulged at a small expense if you send to
CHARLES GILBERT’S (the leading Panama
Hat House), Queen-street, Brisbane, who,
having just returned from the centres of manufacture
for these scarce lines, can supply either folding or Alpine
shape at 18/6, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 35/- to 45/- (cash with
order), securely packed and carriage paid to any address.
Southern States values simply not in it. A trial order
.vill convince you.
FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
The Sydney Coffee
A
-Bu/c
am
ft SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. WiJlbe fc
A a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Bar
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet Piles
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections
From all'Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE
i,e sent vou. Address the
Palace Hotel,
.OWER DOMAIN
(Under New
Management)
is the Healthiest and Cleanest
Hotel in Sydney.
TERMS—From 6s. per day, and from 255.
per week.
JJOTICE TO AtSULBOURNB VISITORS^
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.’*
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
HVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate.y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
I3gr* BEWARE OF IMITATIONB. T*S
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED ROTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNKTureo
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
I®“ See my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
VV. LANGSTON, M R.C.S.. Eng.,
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food. It doesits work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter
looks on, the drunkard is reclaimed, even against his will
and without his knowledge or co-operation. Send name
and address to THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free.
RUPTURE «
Ihr»w »w»y
■mu Ziu*.
without
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cob Russell & Collins Bts. c
MELBOURNE.
Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites,
CALVERT’S
20 per cent.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soap for toilet purposes.
Most useful to prevent or cure insect bites
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, etc.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
'AUlltG
*y£ S
Oi
4
v*
r
z> i
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
M As a specific for Tooth ache It has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head-ache,
Pjrifepala, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac,
Of all Stokes.
Hidden Secrets of
Disease Med
WORDS
OF
WISDOM
This “ GRAD
BOOK” which is
sent AbseloteLy
FREE.
" Words' <©f WYadom,’*’a
wtraxiLarful lbndfc w.riftlßU.
fear the sul«>]lurpoBß' cl ra»-
veallng' &»< audiirars the
wonderful syatcan.u£. hom-
oeopathic treatments which
brut aured so many oases
that war® thought to Da
hopeless and. incnrubla.
The book is. written, in.a
plain and concise manner,
telling you exactly how
and where you.can regain
perfect health,. !n fact, it
gives you the key to the
grandest knowledge known
It reveals wonderful se-
crets and makes the impossibilities of yesterday realities of to-
day. No matter what your disease oar how many have termed
it hopeless or incurable, you wJ!I imltif©i find it A MESSAGE
OF HOPE to you, for if you follow sia dictates* yon wilh.rM
thousands of others hare, be entfrefy cured. <rf your ail manta.
Remember this book costa you abaornrtjeiy ro;<Mug and yon wall
prize it highly. Simply sit down* write yrarnasw and. addroag.
•end it to the
IRVING HOMOEOPATHIC COY. r
c/r Hunter &. Bligh Sts,, Sydney, Pi.S.W.
also stating your ailments, and they will send their opinion, and
advice as well as this grand book: without cost..
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every jnmiiueu
Of CULT
ELECTRIC
IiELTS and
A RELIANCES
a trial of 30 day* before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC*
TIUC ERA.” Our Electrio
Melts will cure all NER*
VOUS and other Diseaaal
in all Btages, however
caused, and restore tha
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electria
Bells give a steady south*
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through-
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Ei.ry.Aßgm Smsum:, SYDNEY*
ALL CHEMISTS
PROEFINSEIfQ
FOR
Anemia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
At 3/6 PER BOX


ICE-MAKING MACHINES 70/. , Acn
Water converted into Ice in One Minute
ICE-CREAM FREEZERS „„„ 15/- „ c „
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. 23 i y S'i* **•>
Melbourne.
and 422 Elizabeth St.
tieer Electric Plant.
work, good pay. Wouldn’t you like
here to help you. Study by coire-
Electrical, Steam, Mechanical
Engineering,—
Plumbing, Heating,
Ventilating or
Mechanical Drawing.
These subjects are taught
at home by correspon-
deuce ; also Steam,
flechanlcal and Elec-
trical Engineering,
Mechanical Drawing,
etc. Write for informa-
tion and Handbook “ B.”
American School of
Correspondence, at Ar-
mour Institute of Tech-
nology.
Sydney : Box 629, (5.P.0.
Engii
Nice, clean
it? We’re
spondenoe
S 3
HYPNOTISM, Magnetic Healing, &c.
014 M
£KS
wsism
•j&f*
Learn to Hypnotize I
Wonderful, Mysterious, Fas
cinating l 1 teach you hew
to become * Hypuotist mo
that yen can exert a string 1
ai) d inagio influence ever
othtra. Celebrated inatan'
taneoue method, discovered
and taught only by me.
Easily and quickly learned.
You can perform astonish-
ing feata and preifcce fun
by the hour. Surprise all
your frienda and make your-
■elf famous. You can gire
entertainments and make
money. Gratifies ere; y am-
bition, compels others to
lore and obey you, and
brings health, happiness,
and success in life. Cures
diseases and bad habits.
Send two stamps for my big
FREE BOOK, which treats
on all the wonders, secrets,
and mysteries of the art,
and shows you Just how to
become a Hypnotist.
ADDRESS—
Prof. R. H. Barraden, 89 Pitt Street, BYDNEY,
♦
MEN
II
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165 Collins Street, Melbourne.
VEGETABLE
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Charcoal
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea. Ac. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gires a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER In
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
Pu°T?’ ra^ons, P* eaBe see •ach Bottle or Tin bear*
16 Trade Mark in monogram, 'on the wrapper.
MEDICAL GALVANISM.
' M ESSRS - HALE AND SON’S FIRM has distinguished
itself in the development of ELECTRICAL
SCIENCE as a MEDICAL AGENT. By an entirely NEW
METHOD of application they have succeeded in produc-
ing'an ELECTRIC BODY BELT, which for COMFORT,
EFFICACY and GENUINENESS is unquestionably far
superior to any previous invention. Yet the whole appli
ance is so compact that it only weighs a few ounces. In
this age of shams it is something to get an article that
has some power apart from imagination.” —Medical
Monthly.
HALE’S IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELTS have con-
quered the most OBSTINATE cases of NERVOUS and
other DISEASES after all other remedies have FAILED.
OUR SPECIAL ELECTRIC BELT WITH SUSPENSOR
FOR GENTLEMEN HAS NO EQUAL. Catalogue and
Price List gratis. CONSULTATION FREE.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 CASTLEREACH-STREET, SYDNEY.
BALSAM OP HOREHOUND
S BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
ARNOLD’S BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
For Ceughs and Golds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Gough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure
Weals.’
Men WOMEN
Can obtain strength and vigor
by the use of DR. PIERCE’S
ELECTRIC BELT." A Won-
derful Restorative. The most
Scientific Electrical Appliance
Mention
this
i . ■'lercc Electric ron o#.
B*n ir*n cisco, U.S. A.. W, H. Soul & Co-, Agts. Sydney
ever made. Drugs do not cure.
! This Belt does. Send stamp (any sort)
for “Bookl*t No. 2.” .(£7* Write to-day :
C1..1.1. Pa OnC Gf
The representative book of Australian humor —
STEELE RUDD’S
“On Our Selection.”
Second impression now ready. Price, 6s. Bd.
oost free from The Bulletin office.
WOOL. PRODUCE. CRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Affencv
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
„ . * SELH
Consignors art abtcluttly protected under a
ACrC SELLIKTO. BROKERS OKTI.T.
clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
COMMISSION FOR SELLING
WOOL
THREE-QUARTERS (J) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
1 wl- dl u- g R< r ceivul £ into Store . Fire Insurance,
A l vi?/’ L °^ t,ng ’ Re .P ack >ng, Sample Bales,
n %rvnfe nf: ’ et c.) on Wool real-
will^be V6r P er lb. the charges
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
peoce per lb :
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per‘lb. and
under ...
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
feet System of Weighing-. Way Bills sen t on Application.
PRODUCE
I>I!S of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, eta, HELD WEEKLY.
Ample provided 8 Th 23 m™??” f S " t . heir "’ ral " ,or realisation by the Company
desired e ., ine eoBt of roi Clndtll SSUSS,^
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S sheep dip.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 3 ,® Market Street, Sydney o ..^ r o=*«r < 2«>
SOT.K AUSTRALu’n^EPeSS™ I ”®'.
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fane
— ; (Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEV LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos. Motors, Pumps, eto
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
~ —-—- Insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, eto.
"9-9
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult, Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cur*
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AV ° ,D unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
Vigor and Strength
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it ™n
almost be said there are no hopeloss or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and hare the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seek the Truth., it costa KTothlng l
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell &Collfns Sts., Melbourne.
HOME CVCLOPEDin
nnu«m
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustration. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical, Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, lllus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s od.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d |
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d i
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. I
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free. !
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d. ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho Is.'
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2<i posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Curb, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages
1600 illus. Leather bound, mv price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to 10st. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention thii paper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T)EAR SIR, — I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
>iii pl ** street, Sydney.
flyi d
£ Recommended
£! D,C AtA\EN
INDIOEjTioM
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 220
Strand, London, and sold at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d’
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
BuncytfMHisv
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIfiARFTTFS
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’a Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORIMAPLT <fe Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by the use of
QS R» CORO®
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparallele.i and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 368. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
F. H. Fauldlngr & Co., 16 O'Ccnnell St., Sydney.
Qin
DEAF
TO3
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
lnvisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,


We teaeh in 3 Lessons of 10 minutes
each suffic ent for a pupil to write his
own notes, in a month to correspondence
speed, and in three months to Reporting
Speed.
JSHYEW SHORTHAND
21 Lessons tor 425„ payable 2s. 6d. per lesson for first 2S "
last four Free. Country Pupils same s pARTiaJUA RS.
See Page 23.
TYPEWRITING and the NEW SHORTHAND
taught for £5 ss. cash to completion. A saving of
Pounds on other methods of teaching. Each pupil
thoroughly trained in the NEW SHORTHAND, and
provided with an up-to-date Type Machine during
Tuition.
In Three Months we can qualify
Pupils for Positions.
SSY’S
THREE STAR
Beware of
Cheap
Grain Spirits
Flavored
and
Colored
to
Imitate
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
V M
*
•V
- 5 ■
.£>
1-^
o
V
0
•»1K
0
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
‘PLUM’
pENTLEMEN.—Tins is supeHor tfl any other. It js enact kind ot
I t llke > ben. ,„a never require. fnndmj „« a number ol years, can testily to
edi-e that I. required to «»»«» ggj-tffig 'tktftSSSZ
len men “ PLUM 1 RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Rasor, 7S.
“RAZOLSS " UOHTMM “f a S r , ’ E p“r“;n‘“e“!iul Morocco Leather CM M
F„c» {ISSSSrS^nlKrPah' ,lory Handles, in he.uti.ul .»«. 30.
Sole Agents
Please aaa ou. ~ *
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st. f Sydney.
3J
Hotelkeepers, make your own
VERATED WATERS
THE “ AUSTRAL ” CRATED WATER MACHINE JMjjta
only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTTLho
per dav of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Sodawater,
&c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PER DOZEN These machines
are now working in all the Australian States, New Zealand, ana
South Africa.
Write For Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers
eckersley anp sons,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
automatic adjustable absolute
THE BURR LIFT
Made of Steel.
/\ PERFECT PULLEY FOR ALL PURPOSES.
SIMPLE
SAFE SERE
“Let go the rope, tbe lever does
the rest.”
No. 2, Weight 22 oz., will lift 600 lbs. 6/9
No. 8, Weight, 4| lbs.
No. 4, Weight, G£ lbs.
No. 5, Weight, 11 lbs.
No. 6, Weight, 17 lbs.
No. 4£, Weight, 10 lbs.
No. s£, Weight, 20 lbs
No. 6|, Weight, 28 lbs.
800 lbs. 10/3
1500 lbs. 18/9
2000 lbs. 23/9
2500 lbs. 28/9
3000 lbs. 33/6
3500 lbs. 40/-
5000 lbs. 47/6
The above prices and weights include
lower block. No rope.
Fullest Particulars from the SOLE
AGENTS for Australasia—
Made of Steel,
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE
AVENARIUS"
White Hut Destroyer.
A WOOD-PRESERVING and ANTISEPTIC OIL.
Preventive against DECAY, DRY-ROT, FUNGUS, and
WOOD-DESTROYING INSECTS.
CHEAPER THAN TAR.
TIIE’D be glad to give you the
benefit of the experience
of others! Of those who’ve
rolled up their sleeves and
turned every stone in their
ardent endeavour to know
facts ! Results of experiences
covering 20 years! We’ve a
booklet (free for the asking)
that will tell you much of
“ Avenarius.”
it
is a Wood-preserving Oil and Walnut Stain.
Two coats, well applied, makes wood (hard or
soft, green, Bappy or dry) last as long as iron
when exposed to similar conditions. That
may seem like a big contract. But we’ve got
every reasonable assurance that this claim is
well founded.
Prices and Fullest Particulars from the AGENTS
E. RICH & CO., Limited,
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24. No. 1197.
SATURDAY, r ANUARY ‘> R 1003.
Price 6r»
THE SACRIFICE—“ THESE BE THY GODS, O ISRAEL!” WHAT AUSTRALIA FOUGHT FOR IN S’AFRICA.
“Johannesburg Chamber of Mines has informed Mr. Chamberlain that the earnings of 12,000 whites averaged £353 a year per head increasing the cost of production by 2s. 10d.
f e r ton. If white labor be adopted exclusively, it was declared, the extra cost would be 10s. per ton, rendering half the mines unprofitable. "-Cable.
And as Mr. Chamberlain is, whether he likes it or not, in the power of the Johannesburg financiers, their demand for Chinese and Hindoo coolies
will ultimately be yielded to,


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
,t Australia for the AustraliansA’
Printed and Published by Willtam Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin'
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New Sooth Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
ROT ICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches
(those dealing ivith Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO ivords, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tiik Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that toe
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amu tears in Made and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e.,any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 23 llout St., Capetown ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China.— Brewer and Co., SI Wanking Road, Shanghai.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 24, 1903.
The Preservation of our Federal
Rights.—No. 1.
The Australian Government and the Aus-
tralian Parliament have, if the press and State
politicians may be believed, few friends in
public places just now. There are abundance
of obvious reasons for this attitude of the
press and the common herd of State politi-
cians—so many, in fact, that it is difficult
to remember half of them, but here are ten
selected at random :
The States are not accustomed to work together, and
every time the pet project or pet steal of one State is
defeated by the votes of others, the circumstance is
Called “tyranny” and “outrageous outside inter-
ference.”
The State Premiers are accustomed to be supreme, and
having, in almost every case, helped to create a superior
power, they hate and malign it because it is superior.
The removal of the best men into Australian politics
has left State politics in the hands of a poor, mean,
grudging, petty-minded tenth-rate gang, bitterly jealous
of their Dignity, because they have none. Most of them
have no policy worth speaking of, and the mangy spectre
of State Rights is their best asset.
The Australian Parliament’s splendidly democratic con-
stitution earns for it the hatred and suspicion of the
wealthy Tories and the Upper House clan generally. The
proposal to make the Federal Territory the people's pro-
perty for ever has made it detested by the land-boom
crowd which saw great pickings in that Territory. The
fact, now gradually dawning on the Tory class, that the
Australian Parliament has power, and will one day pro-
bably use it, to levy graduated land tax and absentee
tax, and burst up the great land monopolies, makes it a
thing of loathing to such bodies as the Victorian House
of Landlords. Its honest administration of the Customs
law has made it hated by the big importers. And these
classes, together with the tenth-rate class of State politi-
cians, boss most of the newspapers and manufacture
public opinion.
The Australian Government has, as yet, no permanent
home of its own where a really Australian press might
grow up. There is a Sydney press and a Melbourne press
and various others, each looking after its own State
exclusively, and cadging for its own State Government
advertisements, and pandering to the tenth-rate State
politicians—but the Australian capital city, where the
new Australian press will grow up, isn’t built yet.
The Australian Government cut off the free newspaper
postage swindle in three States, and three sets of news-
papers hate it with a vigorous hatred in consequence.
Yet it had to do what it did, or else extend the free
newspaper postage swindle to all six States, and be hated
by three others for wrecking their revenue. Also it
refused to subsidise free newspaper trains for the rich
Sydney morning dailies—which was unpardonable.
It has no relief work to give away, and verv few con-
tracts of any kind, for it is pledged for a period of years
to return all surplus revenue to the States. Also, it has
no loan money to scatter round, and no trust funds to
misappropriate All the ways in which See and Owk’Sul-
Livan and their Kind buy popularity are closed to it.
It hasn’t even many good advertisements to distribute,
which might placate that section of the press which used
to boss the petty State Governments, and is mad because
an Australian Government is too large to be bossed.
It has the hostility of the old anti-Bill crowd as a matter
of course ; also the black-labor crowd.
It was created for the express purpose of bringing
about a common agreement on many points over which
the States have wrangled for 40 years without coming
any nearer to an agreement—tariff, immigration, differen-
tial railway rates, the ownership of rivers, and questions
of the same kind. Naturally it began to make enemies
as soon as it touched any of these.
* * • •
The Australian Government, as a sorrow-
ful matter of fact, has hardly anything but
its honesty and its ability to put forth just
now as a reason why it should receive public
support. And despite all its failings—
notably Premier Barton's foolishness in the
matter of the proposed new naval agreement
—it has shown such honesty and ability as
no previous Australian Government has
shown in the last 40 years. By-and-bye,
when it takes over the railways and the
public debts and perhaps the Education
Department, and starts building schools, and
new lines, and a new Federal city, and levies
a graduated land-tax that will give it more
money to spend and make the Victorian
House of 48 Rich Landlords wish it had
never been born, it won’t need to rely wholly
for public support on its energy, patriotism,
ability, and earnest desire to make this
country better. It will have jobs to dis-
tribute then, and advertising. Also, there
will then begin to grow up in the Federal
city a press which knows not See and
Jenkins and Philp, and which will frankly
call the Telegraph and the Argus two
bilious outside publications that should
devote themselves to the small local things
they know something about.
* * • *
There is something abjectly petty in the
struggles of Jenkins and Irvine, and See
and Philp, to prevent the Australian
Government doing anything of importance,
or growing to be anything of importance,
lest their own pomp should be thereby
diminished. As one sign of the times,
there is shortly to be held a conference of
State Premiers, and the chief business of
the conference is to maintain “State
Rights.” What are State Rights ? So
far as any democratic Australian can
see, there are none—or at least there
should be none, and this paper devoutly
hopes that a time may come when
there will be none. We can’t have State
Rights without diminishing our Federal
Rights, and these latter are inconceivably
the more precious of the two. State Rights
consist of the right to be governed in great
part by property-elected and hopelessly
Tory Upper Houses, or by Upper Houses of
senile and incapable life-nominees, and in
some cases by Assemblies elected on the
plural vote system ; instead of by a Legisla-
ture elected wholly by the people on a one-
adult one-vote basis. And a community
which is supposed to almost lead the world
in insisting on the right of self-govern-
ment is called upon, in the sacred name
of liberty, to reserve as much power as
it possibly can in the hands of the N.S.W.
House of Nominee Dotards or the Victorian
House of Rich Landlords, because if it takes
authority from them and hands it over to the
Legislature which is wholly the result of its
own free election, it will thereby be trodden
under the iron heel of tyranny, or something
to that effect. State Rights, so-called, really
mean the right of the small, dull men who
were left behind, because they mostly weren’t
large enough for Australian politics, to run
as much of the political show as possible,
and a great deal more of it than is their fair
share. In this matter See and Irvine and
Jenkins regard themselves as the State—
which is their self-delusion. The people
would have a great many more rights if the
State Governments were wholly obliterated.
State Rights, as a matter of fact, are of no
more account than county rights, or parish
rights, or street rights. All the community
wants is just plain rights, and the anxious
appeal of John See or John Jenkins that
the people should exercise these rights in the
way that will furnish him with a job, and
thereby prevent him keeping a sufficient eye
on his produce business, or pushing the sale
of the Picturesque Blatherskite or the
Family Stupefier in 38 parts, is not a
matter of any real public concern.
• * • .
Since the State Premiers have discovered
how superfluous they were liable to become
under Federation their attitude has been
one of grumpy and unsociable disgust.
Several of them raised a bitter row about
their claim to recommend eminent grocers
and landlords and such-like for knight-
hoods, and to still hold personal com-
munication with titled political poten-
tates in England. One or two of them
nearly broke things because they did not, as
well as the Premier of Australia, receive
invitations to the Coronation. The States
all maintain their separate Agents-General
so that these officials may remind the
British Government at intervals that such
persons as Irvine and Philp are still above
ground. Jenkins, of South Australia, re-
fused to be aware of an urgent dommunica-
tion from the Dutch Government because it
came through the Australian Minister for
External Affairs. When Federal Minister
L\ne proposed, as a measure of economy,
that the Australian Government should pay
a portion of the salary of a qualified officer
in the Works Department of each State, and
that he should devote part of his time
to the supervision of Federal works
and buildings, the proposal was re-
ceived kindly in several States, but
the unmannerly Jenkins, of South Australia,
declined to consider it, apparently lest his
small dignity should suffer if he were found
speaking to the democratic Australian
Government. When Treasurer Turner
asked the State Governments to furnish him
with an accurate list of their debts, so ■ia
he might prepare and submit to them a
scheme for converting them as they fell ue
into a uniform Australian stock at a reduced
rate of interest, and thus save the States
much money, he failed in several cases to
even evoke an answer —civil or otherwise.
Victoria, whose credit, though by no means
the worst, is none too good just now, has a
£5,000,000 loan falling due at the end of this
year, and Irvine announces that the State
intends to look after the renewal itself. It
will probably lose £lOO,OOO or £200,000 by
not having the Federal credit at the back of
the new issue, but the Dignity of the Irvine
Ministry will be saved. And two State
Governments propose starting costly law
proceedings to assert their alleged right to
be above the Australian Customs law, and to
import whatever goods they please without
paying duty. They lose nothing by paying
duty, for the money comes back to them at
the monthly division of the Federal surplus,
but the Dignity of See or Philp or some
other inconsiderable person is involved.
These things are not matters of State Rights.
If, for instance, it is decided that the Par-
liament which is wholly elected by the
people is not supreme in customs matters,
but is partly subordinate to a Legislature
which is half elected and half nominee, the
rights of the people of all the States of the
Commonwealth will be thereby seriously
diminished.
• • • *
There are very large powers in the Con-
stitution by which the Australian Parliament
—the only purely democratic Parliament
Australia ever possessed, and the only one
in Australia wholly worth fighting for—can
squash the bumptious small fry Premiers
who are now so badly in the road. But for
want of space some remarks on this subject
are held over till next week.
The Freetrade Banner.
New South Wales’s own valuable George Reid
has broken the news that, at next election for the
Australian Parliament, he proposes to hoist the
banner of Freetrade with no uncertain voice, be-
cause it is founded on a rock —or something to
that effect. This promise raises the preliminary
question whether George Reid and his associates
would know the banner of Freetrade if they saw
it ? Certainly they have no personal acquaint-
ance with the half-masted tatter in question.
The Freetrade theory, in Australia, has always
labored under one disadvantage. It was too
dirty, too brutal, too callous, and too disastrous
to be practised even by its own advocates, and,
when a practising Mohammedan preaches
Christianity to a Jew, the Jew naturally
wants to know why the preacher doesn’t try
his own creed and see what it is like. Parkes,
M'Millan, Carruthers, Sunday Brunker,
Young, Gould, and the famous Smiths (Pump-
kin and Bruce) preached Freetrade vigorously
enough, but there was hardly a notable N.S.W.
ind' try from Ato Z—or, at least, from ale down
to wme—that they didn’t protect. Anyone who
likes to look up the N.S.W. tariff in the old
“Year Books” of 1891 and previous years can
ascertain this fact for himself. George Reid
preached Freetrade and protected a good many
things—beer, sugar, Freetrade newspapers, wine,
tobacco, confectionery, biscuits, preserves, and
others. All these people sacrificed revenue by
sacrificing their alleged principles—the loss of
revenue on beer alone, by not making the excise
on the local article equal to the import duty on
the foreign one, was a most serious item,
running to about £150,000 a year, to
say nothing of the loss of the blessings
of pure Freetrade as well. Whether all these
politicians didn’t believe that Freetrade, as they
asserted, made the public jolly and fat, or whether
they were hired by Paul Kruger or some other
base foreigner to deliberately set about making
N.S.W. miserable and lean, is a matter for them
to settle among themselves. Anyhow before they
hoist the banner of Freetrade they had better get
themselves introduced to that strange article.
They have never met it yet. It may be right
enough to hoist a friend, but to hoist a perfect
stranger is an act no real gentleman would be
guilty of.
• • * •
The Bulletin is Protectionist for many reasons.
One of them is that the policy which was good
enough for M'Millan and Carruthers and Bruce
Smith and his political brother Pumpkin is good
enough for it. It doesn’t care what these people
mtu the habit of saying things runs in the
Smith family; it is only considering what they did.
When the Freetrade theory is so unclean that its
own friends can’t use it, no one can reasonably
expect that its enemies will be impressed by it
taking one thing with another, the Freetrade
party of N.S.W. is about the most insolent,
unscrupulous, and cheeky association of bagmen
and bounders that any country has yet produced
and it is only redeemed by its streak of uncon-
scious humor-the humor of the anti-tobacco lec-
turer whose pipe has set his own coat-tail on fire
its record may be condensed thus :
It never dared to practise its own creed, though it lost
revenue by not practising it. * sc
, alwavs speaks of the period when it heavily pro-
tected b’er, wine, tobacco, cigars, fruit, bacon, hams
tongues, biscuits, butter, candles, confectionery cement’
cheese, teetotal drinks, cornflour, fish, galvanised iron
goods, timber and wooden goods generallv ia™
red and white lead, maizenf, maiz! flour, PreCved n Uk’
wire netting, oils, paints, salt, sugar, treacle and
other articles (including the Daily Telegraph s
" d Ev ‘““ N " s > »
It points to the industries that it created bv its semi
Protective tariff as proofs that industries can rise and
flourish in the bracing atmosphere of free competition
It draws comparisons between the profrreqq nf ViVtr! •
during the last ten years under Protection and ofNSW
during the same period under Freetrade , ,?nd Vu
Parkes-M'M.llax semi-Protective tariff un to end
the Dibbs Protective tariff up to ikqr end fL 9l, T, and
partially-Protective tariff afterwards) and howls. 1 * 6 REID
. w eg th ® ,? ree . trad e party is feeling really good
a b great h deal'about e th r dared t? P ractise - &falks
Imports and its smaller pewter joss is Exports Its
great joy is to see us produce wool and \ ltS
a shi *’> Paj freight on P i to the
other end of the world (which is exporting) - and
pay some one at the other end of the world a
commission to sell it to a manufacturer, and
men to make it up into clothes, and pay freiclT
on it by a foreign-owned ship from the other end
of the world again, and pay M‘Mu,LAN and his
kind to re-sell it to us (which latter process is im
porting, and the two processes together make un
“trade ”), while the men who might do the mam
facturing here are maintained on relief works
And meanwhile that vastly larger and more im
portant thing, internal trade, is not reckoned
in the Freetrade vocabulary as trade at all
Yet it amounts to about 50 times the bulk
of the foreign trade. Though it seldom an
pears in trade statistics it is to foreign trade
as regards size and importance, as an elephant is
to a grasshopper. It is just as much trade to send
wool from Bourke to Sydney to be manufactured
and to send back finished goods from Sydney to
Bourke, as it is to send the same wool to Man
Chester and get back the finished goods from Man-
chester. Protection, even if it amounts to Pro-
hibition and practically destroys foreign trade
leaves the country with as much trade as before—
generally more. And it is a species of trade in
which the profits of manufacture, the middlemen’s
profits, the wages of labor, the taxes paid bv
manufacturers, middlemen and workers, the
profits of supplying food and necessaries to manu-
facturers,workmen and middlemen, the freights
the banking exchange profits and all the other
sundries belong to ms— not to English, French and
German shipowners and German or English manu-
facturers and merchants.
* * * *
Under Federation and Protection 90 or 95 per
cent, of the trade of Australia is absolutely free
The other 5 or 10 per cent, is what all the fuss is
about. As a matter of fact, if George Reid suc-
cessfully raises that banner he never saw before
and if he carries out his alleged principles, which
he never did before, there will almost certainly be
less Freetrade in Australia than there would be
if he left the banner alone. The heavily-protected
United States, just because of its Protection, has
twice as much trade that is really free as Great
Britain has. Because of its Protection it has in its
own country, three times the manufacturing indus-
tries that Britain has, and the people engaged in
them make internal commerce—commerce by rail-
way, road and river, between one town and another
—all of which is free. Britain, by reason of ltsFree-
trade policy, imports much and manufactures, by
comparison with the United States, comparatively
little. Also it grows comparatively little.
And just because the. people who make ari
immense proportion of its goods are in Chicago
and Pittsburg, when they should be in Manchester
and Glasgow, its internal trade suffers. r lhe
United States, largely by reason of Protection,
has an absolutely tree trade worth over four
thousand millions annually. Britain has much
less than half that, though with more than half the
population; and the bitter and ever increasing
cry about the non-paying character of British
railways is one of the results.
* * * *
When the Freetrader drops into poetry he
tells of harbors black with masts on which
fly the flags of all nations, and where the
ships of all nations come and go, carrying
the produce of every clime—he always calls
it a “clime” in moments of inspiration. Yet
there is more practical inspiration in a heavily-
laden train carrying our own goods on our own
railways, with ourselves collecting the freight-
money, than in the picture of somebody else’s
ship bringing someone else’s goods here, and col-
lecting the freight-money from us—also, somebody
else’s sailor very drunk in Lower George-street,
Sydney. A lot of needless poetry is wasted on
the ship—which, in a general way, is foul, infested
with rats, bilge-water and cockroaches, and
carries a crew of ill-paid, ill-fed men whosleepina
dog-kennel, and are brutally ill-used by the mate.
But, after all, the poetic aspect of the question is a
side issue. It is impossible to take any Australian
Freetrade party or its banner seriously while it
persistently protects many local industries, and
denies that it does so, and alleges that the pro-
gress of these protected industries is a proof of the
immortal truths of Freetrade. Such a party may
be a good deal of a brassy liar, and a considerable
amount of a fool, and a curious mixture of a clown
and a conundrum, but it could never be a thing of
any political account in a country where the
people thought for themselves. Perhaps the
Australian people don’t think for themselves so
much as is generally supposed, but merely think
they do.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
S’African Politics.
As the harvest of the war comes to be reaped in
S’Africa, it proves to be exactly of the character
which opponents of the Chamberlain resolve to
have war at any price expected. Practically the
whole financial burden of the struggle is to fall on
the English taxpayer —Mr. Chamberlain having
assessed the gold-mines’ contri bu tion at £30,000,000
only —a mere drop towards the £200,000,000 or so
which will have been spent on the war; and even
this contribution seems to be rather fictitious than
real, for it is also announced that the British
Government will grant a loan to the same amount
to the Rand for “public works.” A contribution of
£100,000,000 by the Rand to the cost of the war
would have been strictly reasonable; payment of
interest and sinking-fund on that amount would
not have nearly absorbed the extra profit which
the mine-owners calculated they would get as a
result of a change of Government (£4,126,535*
year). Aside from the financial position, it is
evident that the benefit to be obtained for “Im-
perialism,” as a result of the war, is not very
great. The Rand mine-owners are beginning to
show that no form of government will be pleasing
to them that is not absolutely plutocratic in
its sympathies, and are almost as seditious
in their utterances now against ‘‘Downing-
street Government ” as they were against the Pre-
toria Government of President Kruger. So far
as the British worker is concerned, he must count
the campaign a wholly disastrous one. President
Kruger did his utmost to discountenance colored
labor and to favor the white worker.- There are
many suggestions for working the Rand mines
under the new Government, but none gives a
thought to the British toiler. Chinese coolies,
lascars, Central African negroes, Mozambique
and Delagoa Bay natives —all these are suggested
as complements to the local Kaffir supply and as t
means to keep the wage-rate down. But there is
no proposal for the employment of white labor,
though obviously the only means by which the
conquered Dutch Republics can be made into
British colonies is by the settlement therein ot
great bodies of British workers. Clearly, in the
new territories, if the employment of colored
labor in the mines is persisted in, there can neier
be such a guarantee of a pro-British majority ot
voters as to allow of a representative government
being granted. Orange River and the Transvaal
must be held for all time as conquered provinces,
the population consisting of Afrikanders, colored


people, and the English army of occupation
Must be so held, or finally given over to the
Afrikanders. The second is the more likely-
alternative. The Afrikander Bond is even now
reported to be “stealthily advancing.” It would
be difficult, surely, for even a person of pro-
nounced English prejudices to hold the success of
the Afrikander Bond a disaster, when the only
other alternative is a nigger and Chow-driving
oligarchy. The Afrikander Bond, by the way is
not the terrible affair which the Australian daily
papers make out. Its platform is simply this
Art. I.— The Bond knows no other nationality but that
ol Afrikanders, considering everybody as such—no matter
what his orgin may be—who shall bind himself to
advance the welfare and prosperity of South Africa
Art. 2.—The object of the Afrikander Bond is the
establishment of a South African nationality by fostering
true patriotism.
Art. 3. The object shall be attained by encouragin'*-
Afrikanders, from a political, as well as from a social
point of view, to assert themselves as a nation.
And that’s a platform which, with a substitution
of names, any genuine Australian would subscribe
to enthusiastically for his own country.
That £75.
An interesting sidelight was thrown on the state
of N.S.W. politics (and politicians) by a recent
Daily Telegraph report of a speech by Mr. S. J.
Law, member for Balmain South :
An endeavor, in which he took a prominent part, had
been made to get a grant from the Government of £IOO
to assist the union in getting up a musical competition in
Balmain. He had it on very good authority that £75 had
been placed on the Estimates for that purpose. But that
was when he was on very good terms with the Govern-
ment and the Labor party—before he had resigned his
seat in Parliament. They all knew that the Government
and the Labor party had done all they could to keep him
out of Parliament, but he had astounded the Prime
Minister and the party by being sent back by the people
of Balmain South,' What did he find when he got back ?
That the position, of Deputy-Chairman of Committees
had been taken from him, and that the grant of £75 to
the Balmain Choral Union had been wiped off the Esti-
mates. Mr. Seb still appeared to be very friendly
with him, but if he wished for any of his (Mr. Law’s)
support he would have to place that £75 grant to the
Balmain Choral Union back on the Estimates. (Cheers).
There was a weak crop of denials after criticism
had been directed on this extraordinary speech.
Mr. Law denied that he had spoken as reported ;
but he didn’t issue a writ for criminal libel against
the paper which (he alleged) so misrepresented
him as to accuse him of a very serious attempt at
political corruption ; and the Balmain audience
which was alleged to have “cheered” the alleged
statement that Mr. Law’s opposition to the See
Government would be modified by a £75 gift to
some of his constituents, made no hasty remarks
to the (alleged) misreporting paper. So the
denials have not as convincing an air as The
Bulletin would like„_ John See denied
that he had ever put, or promised to put, J&75
on the Estimates as alleged ; and Mr. Law ex-
plained that he meant Supplementary Estimates.
And when it was mentioned that, of course, Mr.
Law lost his position as deputy chairman when
he resigned, Mr. Law denied that part of
the report which made him complain on that
point. Altogether the Daily Telegraph reporter
must have made a most astounding mess of his
record of that meeting, or Mr. Law must be deny-
ing things very wildly. But what does stand out
as a sure fact in a mist of contradictions and cross-
contradictions is that Mr. Law perseveringly
applied for £75 of the general taxpayers’ money
for a Balmain choral society, and was very
angry when he didn’t get it. That fact shows
such a degradation of State politics, that the
time seems rapidly coming for their abolition
and the entrusting of the Government of the
country to some body whose decisions will not be
influenced by such considerations as a £75 grant
to a caterwauling combination. That the general
body of the taxpayers should be asked to con-
tribute (out of loan money?) to the funds of a
suburban choral society is in itself a suggestion to
robbery ; that the decision on such a request and
others of a like character, should, perhaps, in-
fluence in some measure the fate of a Government
and the destiny of hundreds of thousands of
pounds, aggravates the harm by showing State
politics to be a matter of parochialism, flavored
with dishonesty. Mr. Law, of course, is not the
only politician who makes such issues important
ones in public life. Of 125 State members in
N.S.W., probably the majority act similarly.
But that doesn’t make the position any more
pleasant for the taxpayer.
♦
Th.e Third Party’s Fleet.
Premier Barton’s further explanation of the
disastrous Naval Defence bargain which he made
in England, and which he is anxious that Parlia-
ment should ratify, does nothing to make the
bargain look more cheerful.' Every Australian
Premier who goes to England comes back explain-
ing, or apologising for, or trying to clear his
character of something, and Premier Barton is no
exception to the rule. Under the old agreement
Australia paid over £IOO,OOO a year for the sup-
port of a British naval squadron, which was sup-
posed to remain somewhere near our shores, ready
to defend us in case of emergency. The seamen
of that squadron were British —it was held that
Australians shouldn’t be encouraged to become
Boys of the Bulldog Breed. The officers were
British the dignity and pride and cocked-
hat of naval glory were not for “ mere colonials.”
The fleet took its orders from England, and Aus-
tralia had no control over its alleged squadron
whatever—still there was alwaysthe promise that it
would be on hand to defend this country if needed.
Premier Barton, however, was glorified and
banqueted in England, and with tne glamor of
the soup and the radiance of the salmon still on
him a new agreement was fixed up. Its principal
features were that some Australians were to be
admitted to the humblest grades of the service,
that Australia should increase its contribution to
£200,000 a year (nearly double), and that (Acre was
no longer to be any promise that the fleet would re-
main here to defend Australia in time of ivar.
We were to pay more and give up all guarantee
that we would get anything at all for the money.
And it is thus that Premier Barton explains :
While the base of the whole force is to be the ports of
Australia and Maoriland, and while their spheres of
operations are to be the waters of the Australia, China,
and the East Indies stations, just as these other stations
are to be the bases of the operations of the corresponding
squadrons, nothing in the agreement is to mean that the
naval force arranged for is to be the only force used in
Australasian waters should the necessity arise for a larger
force. That shows clearly that whatever advantage the
Australian squadron can give the China sqpadron will be
reciprocally returned to it in these waterC Whatever is
laid down in the article defining the bases of the force
and the spheres of operations is to be observed with
regard to the corresponding squadrons in the East
Indian and Chinese waters. It seems to be very
plain that it would have been an easy thing to
stipulate for the retention of the proposed squadron
in Australian waters in time of war, but the reci-
procal stipulation would justly have been the re-
tention of the East India and China squadrons in their
spheres in time of war. In that case the Imperial, and in
a sense the federal, virtue of any such agreement would
have been lost. We should have beenleft to the isolated
efforts of the Australian squadron in tiins of war, and s 0
In°that cftsp a qnn I h dia and , Ghina squadrons for their parts,
to the a "•?!? agreement, if not satisfactory
emin , K t ?’ ,th,n the Eln P ire - would have been
Em nire whn u° _, the spectators outside the
But I Inuß u° U d h . UV . e ad exactl .V what they wanted,
position ?f L^ er i ( ° f , the , °P inion that for us to be in a
attacked and to . lend one squadron when others are
when wp n „i ? re c elv e the assistance of two squadrons
and I will i £ . rSe '*af are Cached is rather a good bargain,
a bad baiaTn! 8 ° nUS Up ° n ° therS of Bhowin K that it is
ape L rather admits Mr. Barton’s plausible
y putting it, and it»might admire the agree-
ment also if it were anything like what Mr. Bar-
ton describes m that last sentence. For us to lend
our scpiadron t° help Ind ia or Hong Kong when
• y required help and we didn’t is good, it being
understood that they do the like by us in
reverse circumstances. But we don’t lend the
squadron ; it is to be taken away by a third party,
without any questions being asked. There is no
guarantee that it or the other two squadrons will
come to our aid in time of need ; they will only
come if a third party reckons our need to be greater
than someone else’s, and if the third party’s interest
lies in defending us more than in defending
some other place, and if the cable isn’t cut so that
we can communicate with the third party, and
the third party doesn’t muddle things. The third
party may take our alleged fleet away while the
enemy s cruisers are within a day’s sail of Sydney
or Melbourne, on the ground that the enemy’s
cruisers are also threatening some other place
wmch England regards as of greater importance
to itself. It is all very well to say that the three
squadrons will gather on the East Indian or
Chinese or Australian station according to which
one is threatened—but there is no information as
to where our squadron will be if all three
are threatened simultaneously, as they easily may
be. Which one place will be defended first and
foremost, and which two will be left in the lurch
at a crisis ? There will always be a chance—
almost a certainty—if India and Australia are
both threatened, that the tendency would be to
protect India and let Australia go. Australia
doesn’t contain 290,000,000 niggers of doubtful
allegiance, who may join the invader. Its tem-
porary loss won’t mean the loss of the respect
of all Asia. It can always be recovered
when the command of the sea is again
assured; and, however battered it may be
when recovered, it will look as imposing
as ever on the map of the British empire.
The third party who controls “our” squadron
will take it, at an emergency, where it will best
serve the third party’s interest. That is why
Australia ought to have a fleet of its own, and
then it can really lend it to the empire if it feels
so inclined. It can’t lend the one which Premier
Barton proposes. That fleet will never be ours
to lend. Premier Barton may as well propose to
lend the Rock of Gibraltar.
♦
The Kyabram “ Reform ” Horror,
Unless the Victorian Government promptly sets
out to legalise the totalisator, and devotes at least
5 per cent, of the takings thereof to the charities,
or imposes a special tax for the same purpose
(which latter is very unlikely), its downfall may
probably be achieved by a quite unexpected cir-
cumstance— viz., the spectacle of sick persons
dying by the dozen in the streets for lack of a bed
to pass away in. The financial position of all
the metropolitan hospitals is bad, but that of
Melbourne Hospital is far the worst—and it is
chronic. Bazaars, fetes, funds are all mere tem-
porary expedients; the State grant has been
heavily reduced, and private donations have
fallen off at the same time. What is wanted,
what must be provided, is a large assured source
of income—something like £20,000 a year—for all
the charities, and the totalisator seems the only
available source. Unless the Sawbath crowd can
show some practicable alternative, all its plati-
tudes about “encouraging gambling” are merely
so much beating of the wind. Said chairman
Godfrey the other day:—
In common reason the Government should reinstate
the annual grant in its entirety. To attempt to save
money at the expense of the sick and suffering was the
most unworthy means of economising that any Govern-
ment could resort to. . . There was one way to over-
come their financial trouble, and that was to close some
of the wards.
Another committee-man:—
It was, in his opinion, disgraceful that the vaunted
reform measures of the Government should involve suffer-
ing, even death, to the poor and afflicted.
Another:—
They were paying starvation wages to their employees,
who were loyally requiting them with their best efforts,
but they could not starve the patients.
That is what the vaunted Kyabram movement
has brought so far: disfranchisement of public
servants, legalised robbery of railway employees,
reduction to a contemptible dole of the old age
pension, and suffering and probable death to
thousands of si§k poor ! It is truly a noble record
for a Reform Movement, started in the swindling
district which refused to pay its water-rates.
♦
Going Slow.
Last week, the N.S.W. Government held a
Cabinet meeting, and decided to go much slower
with its public works policy, and ease off with the
expenditure of borrowed money. No works are
to be undertaken for the present, except such as
are absolutely necessary—and so on. It is not
likely that this resolution will make any great
difference, but it is a curious evidence of the condi-
tion of the Australian political mind. The public is
growing alarmed at the State’s wild and whirling
loan policy, and the lenders are growing alarmed,
which is worse; and, whether they are alarmed
or not, the loan policy is utterly nefarious all
through, and should be abolished. But no sane
individual wants the public works policy
stopped, and it would be a cruel disaster
to do anything serious in the way of stopping it
just now—not that the See Ministry is likely to
do anything very serious. Only in a country
which, through a long generation of loan-cadging,
had lost its self-reliance, its self-helpfulness, its
grit and its habit of walking upright, would it be
assumed that the stoppage of loans and the
stoppage of public works had any necessary rela-
tion to each other. If this country does not have
public works —an immense number of them, too—
and if it does not maintain and improve the works
it has, it must relapse into barbarism, for civilisa-
tion consists largely of public works. And if
this country keeps on borrowing to make all
its new works and repair all its old ones it
must go insolvent. Railways, bridges, telegraphs,
public buildings, harbor works, etc., are as
essential to the country as fences, buildings, and
agricultural implements are to the farmer. But it
has never yet been laid down that the farmer
should always buy fences, buildings, and agricul-
tural implements out of loans; should float further
loans to repair them, and to buy new ones when
the old un paid-for ones wear out; that he should
never repay the loans, and that when loans are
unobtainable agriculture should leave off. New
South Wales could easily, with ordinary sense
and economy in the management of its public
affairs, spare £2,000,000 a year out of revenue for
new public works, and then it wouldn’t require to
shut up the whole policy of public improvement
whenever Cohen of London isn’t speaking to us.
If it is to be regarded as a matter of course that
loans and publio works go together and stop
together, then a time will come when our civilisa-
tion will fall through, and we will start back
again on the bush-grown track that leads to
barbarism. For London won’t lend us money for
ever. In fact, London itself won’t last for ever,
♦
The Broken-Down Politician.
The old, broken-down politician is one of the
sorrows of Australia. Politics are precarious,
and the small men at the tail end of the business
come and go like shadows. The larger men at
the other end of the business haven’t much better
luck. Many a man loses his hold of a decent
boot or drapery shop, or a promising legal
practice with a fair chance of getting away with
the trust money, or a rising house-agency con-
nection, or a medical business which includes
quite a number of affluent old hypochondriacs, or
an expanding wood-and-coal store, or a news-
paper with a good job-printing plant, or a clerk-
ship where the boss seldom counts the cash, for
the sake of three or six years in Parliament.
And at the end of that time he probably finds that
he has lost his business habits and his business
acquaintances, and that he has lived precariously
on one-half his salary while his constituents have
borrowed the other half, or else it has gone in
election expenses. Only the sort of politician
who has the courage to put up a notice in his
front garden that the dog will be sooled on to con-
stituents at sight has any chance of carrying away
any money out of the business, and, as his term
will only last one Parliament,' he isn’t likely to
carry away much. A really great reform, in an
overgrown Parliament like that of N.S. Wales,
would be to reduce the membership by half, to
double the salary, but to pay only one-half
the salary in cash. The other half should be
invested in 3 per cent. Government securities,
with the proviso that the amount thus accu-
mulated could neither be sold, mortgaged,
transferred, nor taken by any legal process what-
ever during the member’s or his widow’s
lifetime, neither could the interest be assigned
or seized under any possible pretext. There would
then be a smaller Assembly and possibly a wiser
one; in the process of weeding out 62 members
some fools must surely go; moreover, a wage of
£6OO would almost.certainly attract some men of
brain tonnage to whom £3OO was no inducement.
The Assembly would cost no more; half the salary
would be beyond the reach of the most rapacious
constituent; and the member who was thrown
out after six years’ service would have a life-
income of £54 per annum to keep him off the
old-age pension fund. The same process should
apply to Ministers. It would save a very con-
siderable passing of the hat for aged and incapaci-
tated politicians, and after ten or a dozen years’
service a politician could almost afford to sool the
dog on to begging constituents.
♦
The Public Health.
In the two principal States of the Commonwealth
there is a passing spasm of interest in the public
health. Victorian Health Board has been investi-
gating the temperance-drinks of the people with
disquieting results, and the Sydney authority finds
that the use of strong antiseptic “preservatives”
is general in the preparation of some of the
commonest articles of diet, and that in consequence
grave damage is done to the public digestion. Such
things as formalin, salicylic acid and boracic acid
are useful as preservatives because they kill the fer-
mentswhich producedecay; andtheyare, of course,
equally efficacious in killing the ferments which
lead to digestion, and their common use, particularly
in milk and its preparations, causes many deaths,
especially among the young. It is sought to
deter the Health Board from a threatened cam-
paign against food-adulterations by the argument
that without the use of “ preservatives” much of
the canned, potted, or otherwise preserved foods
will be impossible of manufacture. In so far as
that plea seeks only to justify the use of drugs in
quantities absolutely harmless under any reason-
able circumstances, it may be allowed to have
some force. But no threat of “killing an
industry” should persuade the Health_ authori-
ties to allow any noxious adulteration. It
is better to kill an industry than to kill
a population. In truth, a certain amount of
discouragement of the tinned - goods industry
would not be disadvantageous to Australia.
The use of potted foods is in many cases evidence
merely of a tired feeling which should not be
cultivated. Tinned fish, tinned meat, tinned
milk, tinned fruit are very largely used out of
sheer laziness when fresh food could be easily
obtained with a little exertion. It is not at all
uncommon to find “condensed milk ” being used
on farms where a cow or two could be kept at
practically no expense. Since under no circum-
stances is a “ preserved ” article of food, no matter
how carefully prepared, quite equal to the same
article in its fresh state, a less general use of
tinned goods would save more than the landscape
from harm in Australia. Certainly the fostering
of the canning trade is not advisable at the price
of grave damage to the public health from the
unwitting consumption of drugs in poisonous
quantities.
*
Municipal Insurance.
Sydney’s Right Honorable Lord Mayor recently
sprang up in the kitchenmaid’s Sunday organ and
declared that for municipalities to insure them-
selves is impracticable. The Right Honorable is
described by the Sunday paper as “an expert on
such questions, not only from a municipal stand-
point, but because he has an unusually good
insight into the inner working of insurance
companies, for several of which he acts
as a solicitor.” This probably means that
the man with the great insight is true
to his salt. The companies pay him a decent
fee, and he’s not going to throw bricks at them.
If the Right Hon. Lord Mayor is such an
authority on insurance, he might be aware
of the fact that municipal fire insurance has proved
a decided success in some parts of Europe.
Strange that whenever the Sunday Shellback
wants an opinion of any democratic pro-
posal it always interviews gentlemen who have
a direct monetary interest in opposing it.
Some of Mayor Hughes’ remarks on municipal
insurance indicate that he is an individual of
crude ideas. He said municipal life or fire in-
surance would expose the citizens to a degree of
risk of monetary loss out of proportion to the
estimated profits. A municipal insurance trust,
said the wise man of Sydney Town Hall, would
have to hold all its own risks, and would
not be able to re-insure with the other com-
panies trading here, as they would, naturally,
decline to reciprocate with a concern formed
directly to oompete against them. A municipal
insurance co. would thus have to hold very large
risks. At present the co.’s that have insured
Sydney City Council property, according to Mayor
Hughes, have received only about <£7oo in
premium; but, in the event of the total loss of the
Council’s property, the companies would lose
about £200,000. But the insurance companies
are paying very good dividends out of
these frightful and disproportionate risks,
even after about 38 per cent, of the
money goes in expenses, and the corporation
might contrive to do likewise. As to the yarn
that private companies would decline to reinsure
with the municipal trust because it would directly
compete with them; no company declines to
“ reciprocate ” with companies “directly formed
to. compete with ” it, otherwise there would be no
reinsurances. All companies were formed to
directly compete with each other and all others,
and no co, reinsures because it wants to give a
brother co. a friendly lift, but because it pays it
to do so ; and if it pays a private insurance co. to
reinsure with a municipal trust, or with Satan,
Beelzebub and co., that private insurance co. will
do it. The Bulletin hopes that Mayor Hughes
is a better authority on law than he is on munici-
pal insurance.
_ +
Concerning Victorian Old Age Pensions:—
Supporters of the Irvine Govt, inside and outside Par-
liament begin to talk openly about repealing the Vic.
Old Age Pensions Act providing a maximum pension of
Bs. a week to worn-out citizens. Treasurer Shiels
cunningly helped on the movement by publishing a
number of cases in which the pension right had been
more or less abused. Taken without thought as they
were intended to be taken by Shiels, it would seem that
the whole fabric of the old age pension system was rotten.
That, however, is by no means the case. An examination
of the cases quoted by the croaking raven of the Ministry
shows that the abuses took place through magistrates
granting pensions to persons not entitled to them—
persons whose children were well able to support them in
their old age. The only thing wrong with the old age
pensions scheme is that it is dependent upon a fluctuating
revenue. Either a special tax should be imposed to bring
in the money needed, or a certain sum derived from a
scientific land-tax should be set apart for the purpose.
It should be remembered that the reports published by
Shiels were written by policemen, who have been told
over and over again by the Tory press and Tory politi-
cians that they would never have had to submit to
percentage reductions had the old age pensions not been
passed. A policeman is not different from other men,
and if he thinks the old age pensioner is the cause of his
losing a few shillings a week in pay, he is not likely to
jook with much favor upon him. One of the constables,
in writing to Shiels, remarked that all the money spent
in old age pensions in his district went in beer. On the
face of it, that statement is a police exaggeration.
♦
At the Auckland inquiry into the loss of the
Elingamite, Lawyer A. j. Tolk, who appeared
for the Marine authorities, charged the captain
with careless navigation ; he said the evidence
disclosed that no proper look-out was kept, that
the log was defective and the reckoning therefore
inaccurate, that there was neglect to take sound-
ings, and disregard of all proper precautions
commensurate with the dangerous position of the
ship; speed was not reduced nearly enough,
the ship should have been stopped till
her correct position had been ascertained;
life-saving appliances were grievously insuffi-
cient and the regulations disregarded, boats
being without compasses or provisions; the
officers and crew were totally unprepared
for an emergency; heavy responsibility rested
on the engine-room staff which failed to promptly
obey orders. Against this indictment, it was
argued that the failure to go astern at once was
due to some unexplained cause in the engine-room
which prevented the engines reversing; the
failure to provide the boats with compasses was
excused on the ground that the rule was invari-
ably broken, and that the compasses were kept in
a box under the bridge, and that the failure to
secure them was due to the sudden sinking of the
ship, and, further, that their loss made no
difference. With regard to the provisioning
of the boats, it was pointed out that had
the ship not gone down so unreasonably
quickly, they would have been amply provisioned.
Counsel for the defence spoke strongly on the un-
reasonableness of the ship going down in 15
minutes in.daylight.. No one could be expected
to get everything ready in that time. What
would have happened had the Elingamite struck
at night and gone down in five minutes, counsel
did not say ; and in the excuses put forward for
the people they represented, the lawyers supplied
a whole mountain range of reasons why every boat
should be kept in constant readiness for the very
worst, and why every shipping co. which fails to
take proper precautions should have its responsible
officials put m the dock.
♦
One John Fitzsimmons proposes to form in
London an “ Australian Defence Association ” for
the purpose of flatly contradicting the unpleasant
truths that are occasionally told there about
Australian finance. This is John Fitzsimmons’
idea outlined by himself :
Scarcely a day passes without an effusion by some
English scribe on the utter failure of Australasian finance.
Visiting missionaries on their return to London dilate on,
in addition to our lack of morals, the deficits of our
various States, and one and all predict the impending
bankruptcy of Australia and Maoriland. Most of the
articles show a crass ignorance of Australian affairs, but,
unfortunately, they are taken as the gospel truth con-
cerning our financial standing. Gould not some steps be
taken to form an Australian Defence Association, com-
prising the Agents-General, merchants, professional men,
etc., interested in Australia, by which these writers Wculd
be speedily brought to book, or compelled to exercise
more care in their compilation, and steer a course closer
to the real facts of the case ?
The rock that the Association, if it is ever formed,
will probably split upon, is that most of the in-
formation on which those “ effusions ” are based
comes direct from Australia, and is supplied by
writers who know a heap more about the financial
position than “ merchants, professional men, &c.,”
in London. The Agents-General don’t count ;
an Agent-General is a professional whitewashed
sent to London to lie manfully for his salary. Mr.
Fitzsimmons should call his Association “ Ostrich,
Limited.” The ostrich is the bird that buries his
head in the sand and denies, with his tail, that he
is there.
♦
Melbourne Age announces that the Transvaal is
complaining bitterly about the enormous charges
levied by the Cape Colony railways for the trans-
mission of goods, which extortion “enables the
Cape to pocket £5,500,000 profit.” In the days
when the war fever was being howled up, we were
always told that it was the extortionate charges
levied on the Boer railways which made things a
burden to the Outlander; but now that the Boer
Government is gone it is admitted, just as cheer-
fully as if the other tale had never existed, that
the worst extortion lies at the British colony’s end.
The Age also reports that the Transvaal, under
British domination, is bitterly aggrieved at having
to pay £750,000 a year in duties on the necessaries
0 f life—saying nothing of taxes on luxuries;
which sort of thing, when Paul Kruger did it,
was denounced as hideous oppression. It is
mentioned casually, too, that £4,000,000 has
been screwed out of the Transvaal in revenue
during the year just closed —almost exactly as
much, out of a burnt and ruined country, as
Kruger collected in the year when the land


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 190 L
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS m
SURPLUS .........
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
ASSURANCE IN FORCE -
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 by ...
*68,966.608
£5,508,678
*14,797,717
• • £1,039,973
*245,682.651
£13,000,350
£8,088,718
LOCAL DIRECTORS:
Sir WM. M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, MB ML C •
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D. ‘ * ' '
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
J*. C. COWLBY; Secretary.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
Manager ter N.S.W, and Queensland.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM ~ FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
in the height of its prosperity, and much more
than he collected in most years. But perhaps the
vilest joke of all is the report in Perth Western
Mail of a returned Westralian merchant, who
went over on a large cattle-deal. He states that
the Transvaal is a country with a 10in. rainfall— a
little more than the average record for Milparinka,
the backest of all N.S. W. baekblock towns, and
less than the record for Wilcannia ! And how the
Jingo papers bellowed in war-time because the
lazy Boer didn’t farm so much as he ought to do—
with that rainfall!
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ Breaking of the Drought."
Royal “ The Fortune Teller."
Criterion “Cinderella.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Palace “The Mikado.”
Centenary Hall, York-st Jubilee Singers.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Zaza.”
Her Majesty’s “ Dick Whittington.”
Theatre Royal “ When London Sleeps.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
The “Fortune-Teller,” a comic opera
by Smith, music by Herbert, opened under
promising circumstances at Sydney Royal on
Saturday. A few years ago the “Fortune
Teller ” would have been called musical comedy
instead of comic opera, but both varieties of
entertainment have undergone a change of late
years. What was comic opera is now musical
comedy, and what was musical comedy is now
Sheol. As for the original comic opera, it seems
to have died with the “ Rose of Persia ; ” and, as
for the original Sheol, any one can find it by taking
the old Mount Browne track from Bourke. The
“Fortune Teller” is splendidly staged, finely
dressed, danced on a reckless and tolerably youth-
ful toe, and is played by a company that is above
the average. It is reasonably strong in the musi-
cal sense, and some few items in Smith’s
libretto can. bear reading over in cold blood,
and there is at least some semblance of a
plot. Irma of the chorus loves Ladislas of the
dismounted Hungarian cavalry, but she is
rushed into an engagement by a beautiful Count
with a curly poodle sort of head, who fancies she
is an heiress. She doesn’t know for certain how
she becomes engaged, but the Count pulls in front,
and his minion Fresco (who is to get a commission)
shoves behind, and between the two she arrives.
Then, hearing that her twin brother has deserted,
and is supposed to have run away with the plump
actress whose frock is in danger of falling off,
Irma decides to get out of her difficulty by taking
h s place and becoming a horseless Hungarian
horseman in the foot cavalry of her distracted
country. This leaves the minion in a difficulty,
but, in order to save his commission, he finds
Musette, the gipsy, who looks like Irma—
Madame Slapoffski is both girls, and her
steadfast resemblance to herself is remark-
able—and buys her from her comic Dutch
father on time payment. She personates
Irma under protest, but when Sandor, the gipsy,
demands that the Count shall give up Madame
Slap on the ground that she is his best girl,
Musette, and Ladislas, of the Hungarian economi-
cal foot horsemen, demands her as his best girl,
Irma, and news comes at the same time that twin-
brother Fedor, who is supposed to be also Madame
Slap in the distance, has turned up and explained
everything, a fairs grow confused, and the Count’s
brief legs totter under him as he tries to hold up
the too vast orb of the situation. And about this
time the situation, owing to Madame Slap being
two girls and a young man simultaneously,
becomes an irresponsible lunatic, and the tide of
battle sweeps the beautiful little count’s legs from
under him permanently.
* * • •
That stout man with the beautiful bass
voice, Lempriere Pringle, is one of the mainstays
of a very fine production. He is a big gipsy of
many colors, and apostrophises his best girl in a
40-fathom voice. To hear him sing the song
wherein he declares his permanent aversion to
work, and defies the whole world to find him a
job, is a thing worth going some distance for.
Madame Slapoffski makes a hit as the two
girls and the young man. Edward Lauri, as
I resco, the gentleman who is in anxious pursuit
of his commission, and W. R. Shirley’s Count carry
most of the balance of the burden in a capable
fashion. The Count is a plump person, whose
existence is a parody on the ordinary beauty-tenor,
and when he is surprised with his hair in curl-
papers it serves to heighten the effect. Most tenors
are curly, and a large proportion of them don’t
curl naturally. A certain Boris, played by Foster
Courtenay, would be a more original joke if he
wasn’t so painfully like an imitation of John
Stofel. Among other people who deserve a
mention, Miss May Beatty is the most prominent.
She is pretty and graceful in a part which is
smaller than she deserves, and in a low-cut dress
she exhibits more plumpness than she was gene-
rally credited with. Ballets have been laid on
lavishly in “The Fortune-Teller,” and there are
wild crashes of music, said to be Hungarian, that
are calculated to waken the dead, or the Upper
House, which is the same thing. A large first-
night audience took the new opera in a cordial
spirit, and encored almost everything.
** * *
“Paul Jones” will be withdrawn from
Sydney Palace for a revival of “ The Mikado ” on
Saturday next, -Jan. 24th. There are indications
that the day is fast approaching when “ The
Mikado ” will have to be withdrawn from all the
stages of the British Empire. The Mikado is
now our dearly-beloved and trusty brother, and
the ally to King Ned, and is going to
be a Knight of the Garter, and he will
CONSTABLE LONG, who was found dying
from a gunshot wound in an Auburn (SydneyJ
public-house bar at 2 a.m. Apparently he had
disturbed a robber at work, and was shot fiom
behind. Deceased was a fine fellow and an
efficient police-officer. There is practically no
clue as to the identity of the murderer.
Photo, by Charleston (Newcastle).
probably claim one day that this opera must be
suppressed as a disloyal and seditious show, which
makes the bulwark of the British Empire in the
Far East a ludicrous potentate, with rooster-
feathers in his hair. For the present, however,
“ The Mikado ” can still be enjoyed, and the cast
at Sydney Palace for this revival promises a fine
performance. George Lauri will play Ko-Ko ;
Miss Florence Young, Katisha; Miss Carrie
Moore, Yum-Yum; and Miss Chetwynd, Pitti-
Sing.
*« * *
First appearance of Jacques Inaudi at
Sydney Tivoli was calculated to try his patience
more than his powers of calculation. It was some
time before his request for figures evoked any
answer; then, when one started, there was a
fusilade from all parts of the house. One tall
individual with a bulky pocket-book and a .sharp
pencil seemed to think that Inaudi was a “ fake,”
and that there was some means by which
he saw the figures written on the black-
board behind his back. As a test, the tall
character tried the calculator with a sum
which was not to be written down. But, like
some others who asked questions, he was not pre-
pared with a correct answer of his own to check
Inaudi’s calculation. What genuine tests were
made the calculator easily responded to. Audi-
ences may be satisfied that Inaudi is not a “ fake.”
Whether he will be equal to very difficult tests in
a crowded and noisy theatre is a different ques-
tion. Those who want to test should arm them-
selves beforehand with sums in Owe’Sullivan
finance and other abstruse points of high mathe-
matics, and bring the answers worked out. The
turn seems likely to be more popular than
would be imagined. Mental arithmetic brought
to a high state of perfection does not, at
first blush, promise to be very amusing. But its
novelty, the desire to try and puzzle the calcula-
tor, and Inaudi’s cheerful manner, help to make
his entertainment bright and interesting. The
Gracie Emmett co. of comedians has a new farce
at the Tivoli—“A Countess for Revenue Only,”
which is laughable enough. Most of the other
items suggest the need of a change.
** # M
“The Breaking of the Drought” is making
favorable progress at Sydney Lyceum, and should
inaugurate a career of Australian drama. The
heroine falling on the tramlines by the railway
would make a sensational ending to Act 111. ; and
if the villain could be struck down by the plague
when madly crossing the resumed area, the effect
would be still better. The plague was a splendid
dramatic property, which was somehow over-
looked.
** * *
“ Cinderella,” like most other pantomimes,
strengthens itself with new items as it goes along,
among the latest being a song and dance by Miaa
Minnie Hooper. Otherwise, Pinchgut Castle and
the various other points of interest remain much
as before in their old quarters at the Criterion,
and continue to arouse public interest for no
particular reason—-apart from the fact that the
castle constitutes some kind of a local allusion.
It might not have been a bad idea to localise the
whole business, and open with Cinderella as the
family drudge doomed to split wood on the dried-
up selection, while her sisters haughtily drove the
skeleton horse to the darnce. Then the Drought
and the Mortgage might have been inserted as
two demons—which they are.
** * *
The Fisk Jubilee Singers have left Sydney
Centenary Hall after a season that flattened down
greatly towards the end, and are now lifting their
gentle, unobtrusive coon hymn round the suburbs
of White Australia. They give a very good
shilling’s worth of melody to the person who is
content to hear his black man from a back seat,
and they would do much better than they are
doing if White Australia didn’t need to feel so far
down in its pocket for a shilling nowadays, and
if it didn’t so often happen that, after feeling with
all its might, it failed to find anything in its
pocket but a piece of fluff after all. An awful
amount of the accu adulated fluff of ages is being
disturbed at the bottom of Australia s pocket
nowadays.
#* * *
Saturday’s revival of “ When London
Sleeps,” following “ The Power and the Glory,”
was about the best thing that could happen at
Melbourne Royal. A mere commonplace night-
mare would have bee*i too distinctly rational
under the circumstances. “When London Sleeps ”
is only comparatively rational, insofar that its
wildest dream seems a little less preposterous than
the cold corpse item in the church scene of the
previous drama. Something leads up to the most
impossible situations this time. Even the forth-
coming of Robt. Inman from the innards of a
brazen god in the Temple of the Indian Exhibition,
London, is vaguely accounted for by the fact that
Willard had dropped him down a cellar hole with-
out knowing where he was likely to land. When
a man is so carelessly put through the flooring
to die he has a dramatic license to crawl upwards
into the cavity of an Indian idol if he can get
there. And Inman can get anywhere when re-
quired. An Andersonian production of “Jonah
and the Whale,” with Inman as the hero, would
be a soft job for that versatile artist. If necessary,
he could get swallowed by a boa-constrictor, and
still live.
• • • •
Years ago the Gourlays assisted in the
marvels of “When London Sleeps,” and Willie
Gourlay’s burlesque performance of a female was
particularly funny. On Saturday the part of the
young man who impersonates a fallen sister at a
house of easy virtue was taken by Bert
Bailey. Sometimes Bailey is droll enough,
but his scarecrow treatment of this broad,
blue joke is rather tiresome in itself, and
rough upon the other people who are supposed
to accept him for a bona-fide fallen one. Willard
is the circumvented villain that Charles Holloway
used to be. Temple Harrison repeats his indis-
cretion as Bertie the idiot, and Miss Ada Lawrence
is a pleasing suggestion of the frail Maudie to
whom Bertie falls a victim. When Bertie has
kept Maudie going for a week on the £5O which
he embezzled from his aunt, he gives a moral turn
to the situation by marrying the rorty damsel.
Miss Ada Guildford is the manageress of a haunt
of sin, and Miss Duggan is the artless heroine
who grew up with a circus. The drama is a great
testimony to the purity and innocence of circus ;
also it includes a, ballet, and a bedroom where the
villain expresses base intentions, and an escape
from a burning house by means of a telephone-
wire.
** * *
These are the last nights of “A Country
Mouse” and “Pantomime Rehearsal” at the
Princess’s. On Saturday, the Musgrove co. ap-
pears in a serious story from the French, called
“Zaza,” and, although Melbourne rarely warms
to a foreign-sounding play with a Z in its title,
there should be hope for Nellie Stewart in the
double-zed-ed name part, if the five acts are not
associated with four tedious intervals. Now
is a convenient time for mentioning that
intervals have been the deadly sin of
Princess’s management ever since Sarah Bern-
hardt set the fashion. Brough and Boucicault,
and subsequently Brough minus Boucicault, used
to burden their entertainment with dreary waits
between the acts. The Musgrove opera com-
panies, “grand ” and frivolous, have taken longer
breathing times than a public referee would per-
mit. The d.c. women who adore these pauses are
in a minority ; moreover the number of men who
want to go out and see somebody has been
largely reduced by droughts and retrenchments.
The fate of “ Zaza,” in five acts, will probably be
controlled in a great measure by the curtain belL
Long interludes mean short runs.
** * *
An innovation in the show line came to
light last Saturday at that occasional theatre, the
Melb. Gaiety, where two performances were
put through in the one evening. The first
began at 6.30, and the repetition started at
9. There was not a tumultuous response
to the first allurement, but the 9 o’clock rush
seemed to offer more encouragement to the
innovator. Prices of admission—ls., 6d., and 3d.
—look tempting on paper, of course, yet it is
gravely doubtful whether the retrenched citizen
who can’t stand 6d. for a two hours’ enter-
tainment will ever have a burning desire
to buy admission with the price of a long-
beer. This twice-a-night variety is not better,
or worse, than many similar hard-working con-
cerns, and it will probably improve, or otherwise
at the bidding of the Mighty Public, by whom all
shows are controlled.
** * *
Another variety co.—the Sparklets—is
struggling with adverse fate at the Queen’s
Theatre, which is another occasional place The
Sparklets have had their bill on the front door for
some weeks, and are deserving of a less adverse
fate. The co. includes some nice girls, but their
beauty is in vain in this instanc e.
** * *
The fourth week of the panto, at Her
Majesty’s finds that hardy annual flourishing as
well as could be expected. “ Dick Whittington ”
is now divided into two acts instead of three
and the final Fan Ballet, which serves for
a transformation scene, comes to an end
the right side of 11 p.m. This improvement might
have been made three weeks ago, but the small
job of pruning a panto, is seemingly a UrJl
difficulty, involving awful breaches of theatrical
etiquette and painfu sacrifices of individua
fat. All the world’s a stage, and the panto-
=el£srS WhOCB hampered
** * *
At the Opera House there was no change
of programme last Saturday night exeent- In iiL
placing of the “turns” an/th/iSof Wa,
lace Brown low s warbles. The imposing baritone
is now letting himself out in the “ Toreador”
song out of respect for a bull who lately
euchred his antagonist. Also Brownlow tells the
musical story of . dark Kiplinges. hero
Gunga Din. The discursive G. W Himio. Tk
Harbecks, the Biograph, and Spry a’id Monti Ire
appearing as before until further* notice h a fh
other Spry is about to move on. ’ but the
A surprising development, in that Syd-
ney gagging and binding and robbing case
(reported on page 13, col. 3, which page went to
press on Monday) was the discovery on Tuesday
night that the man’s apparently improbable
s atJd W Thr ite r trUe “ that , he tied up as
stated. The po ice promptly released him 1 and
lie was honorably reinstated in his old position
and apologised to, and the ability of truth to b e
fiction in strangeness was again indicated
The Wild Cat Column.
Queensland National Bank for the half-year
which closed on 30th December, 1902, showed the smallest
gross profit realised for any half-year since June, 1899,
which is still another evidence that times are not of the
best up North. Dating from the final re-arrangement of
the bank’s affairs, things have been as follows
Less.
Repaid
Gross Written Repaid Private Total
Profits. off. Govern- Deposi- Re-
ment. tors, serves.
Dec., 1897 .. £16,635 £8,635 £2OOO £4OOO £2,000
June, 1898 .. 17,795 8,795 2250 4500 4,250
Dec., 1898 .. 21,255 12,255 2250 4500 6,500
June, 1899 .. 23,879 13,879 2500 6000 9,000
Dec., 1899 .. 27,341 15,341 3000 6000 12,000
June, 1900 .. 27,447 15.447 3000 6000 15,000
Dec., 1900 .. 27,712 15,712 8000 6000 18,000
June, 1901 .. 28,350 16,350 3000 6000 21,000
Dec., 1901 .. 28,745 16,745 3000 6000 24 000
June, 1902 25,605 13,605 3000 6000 27,000
Dec., 1902 .. 22,329 10,329 3000 6000 30,000
The gross profits (£22,329) represent £lO 3s. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds, as at the commence-
ment of the half-year; while the net profits (£12,000,
being the amount left after writing off £10,329) are
equivalent to £5 9s. Id. per cent.
As five years have now passed since tne Queens-
land National Bank had its final cleaning-up and ascer-
tained, with reasonable accuracy, the amount of its
deficit, it seems about time that it issued a real balance-
sheet, and gave an accurate statement of its position.
Once in five years isn’t too often to issue a real balance-
sheet. Ever since 1897 there has been a heavy liability
which didn’t appear in the accounts —the one-fourth that
was written oft the old private deposits, and which the
Q.N. Bank undertook to repay outof profits. Furthermore,
at December, 1897, it was held to be necessary to write
£455,331 off old Government deposits (this amount also
to be repaid out of profits) to meet losses. There was a
huge mass of more-or-less dubious assets called “ private
ledger accounts, debts in suspense,” amounting to
£742,835, and the loss on these was an uncertain quan-
tity. All these items put together made a formidable
deficit, which looked as if it might be over £1,500,000, to
be paid off out of earnings (unless the old assets panned
out better than was expected) before any dividend could
be reasonably hoped for. The visible progress made has
been as follows:
December, December, Re-
-1897. 19C2. duction.
Non-interest-bearing debt
to Government .. .. £458,331 £381,331 £7' 7 000
Non-interest-bearing debt
to private depositors
(about) 1,040,000 980,000 60,000
Debts in suspense .. .. 742,835 560,817 182,018
A reserve-fund of £30,000 has also been accumulated,
which further improves the position. But the position
is a very hazy one. In the course of five years £30,000 has
been definitely set aside towards paying off the £458,331
deficit on the Government deposit account, and £77,000
has been actually paid off that account. A sum of
£60,000 has been provided to pay off the shortage in
private deposits, but the exact amount of the remaining
shortage is still a mystery. During the past five years
£147,093 of earnings has been written off, but whether
this went mostly or wholly in reduction of “ Debts in
suspense pending realisation of securities,” or partly to
write down other accounts (and in the latter case, how
much writing-down yet remains to be done) isn’t clearly
explained. Nor is there any published estimate as to
what the £560,817 of “ Debts in Suspense ” are really
worth. A number of shareholders in suspense would
probably be glad of some information. The Bulletin
is still of opinion that it would be better to show the
whole shortage, so far as it can be ascertained, including
the amount nominally written off deposits, in the balance-
sheet each half-year, and reveal fully the progress that is
being made at wiping it off.
Comparing present figures with those of a year
ago, the new business of the Q.N. Bank keeps up reason-
ably well. These are the principal figures :
December, December, In-
-1901. 1902. crease.
Cash and Liquid
Securities .. £1,780,350 £1,833,479 £53,129
New Deposits .. 1,736,482 1,749,832 13,350
Reserve Fund .. 24,000 30,000 6,000
Capital Paid-up 412,98' 413,121 136
Advances .. 4,846,036 4,831,142 14,894
J-yeaFs Profits.. 28,745 22,329 6,416
The reconstructed deposits of the Queensland National
Bank are now selling at about lls. or 11s. 6d. in the £.
At that figure, if the bank could lay its hands on half a
million of money, it could, by buying them up, make a
very large profit—one that would go a long way to set it
on its feet Apparently nothing, or very little, is
being done in this way--probably for want of the half-
million. The Q.N. Bank has, nominally, nearly £400,000
of uncalled capital, but perhaps it knows its shareholders
too well to call this up—or perhaps it doesn’t know them
well enough, and doesn’t like to take liberties with com-
plete strangers. Anyhow, it is very unprofitable business
to invest the reserve fund of £30,000 in Government stock
at about 3i per cent., when it could be invested in the
bank’s own deposits at 7 per cent.
• • • *
Last week New South Wales borrowed another
£1,000,000 in London at a price which will cost the State
£4 Is. 6d. percent. Premier John See took occasion to
point to the fact that the money had been forthcoming
as a conclusive refutation of all the charges of extrava-
gance, and all the statements that a continuation of the
present policy must lead to public insolvency. How
would this mode of reasoning apply to Mr. See’s own
business? Suppose (only suppose, for no such thing is
possible, and the affluent Mr. See doesn’t run his private
business on any such lines) that he had mortgaged
all his ships and wharves for their full value, and
spent the money on cigars or otherwise. Suppose
also that he had mortgaged his prosperous business in
Sussex-street for all it was worth, and put the proceeds
on the wrong horse. Presume that his bank-account was
overdrawn, and he had come home late from a thrilling
game of two-up, which had swallowed all his loose cash.
And then picture him borrowing £lOOO at 4 per cent, on
the security of his house, and dancing a war-dance on the
pavement with the money in his hand, and stating that
the fact of his having been able to secure it conclusively
dissipated any doubts that might have been entertained
as to his solvency, thrift or prudence. That is about the
situation—at least, it is near enough.
••• « t
The Bank of Victoria (Melbourne) shows a
further improvement for the half-year which closed on
31st December, though not a very large one this time :
Dividends.
Prefer- Ordin- Added n
Profits. ence ary to Re- ■ Ke ‘
- 5 p.c. 2£p.c. serves. senes -
June, 1895.. £19,863 £10,419 -- £9,444 £16,549
Dec., 1895.. 20,631 10,419 10,212 26,761
June, 1896.. 15,069 10,419 4,650 31,411
Dec., 1896.. 17,928 10,419 • 7,509 38,920
June, 1897.. 17,877 10,419 7,458- 46,378
Dec., 1897.. 22,730 10,419 - 12,311 5^689
June, 1898.. 24,380 10,419 13,961 72,650
Dec., 1898.. 27,800 10,419 17,381 90,031
June, 1899.. 27,637 10,419 17,218 107,249
Dec., 1899.. 27,906 10,419 17,487 124,736
June, 1900.. 28,554 10,419 £13,266 4,869 129,605
Dec., 1900.. 80,178 10,419 3,840 133,445
June, 1901.. 31,399 10,419 15,919 5,061 138,506
Dec., 1901.. 33,136 10,419 15,919 6,798 145,304
_ 3i p.c."
June, 1902.. 33,323 10,419 18,572 4,332 149,086
Dec., 1902.. 33,715 • 10,419 18,572 4,724 154,360
The profits represent £4 2s. lOd. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ funds at the opening of the half-year,
as against £4 2s. Id. per cent, earned during previous six
months.


it
aa
"N,'
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
STOCKS in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails,
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. IN D E NTS. —LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Kopfed, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne.
** P r v f pared . < purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, big prospeoting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
Melbourne 5 * eCt t 0 ,nspeotlon ' Cable address: “ Option."
*
h.d' K °. Zmin f^ y ’ 106l 06 Queen-street, Melbourne,
return u ed from h >s visit to England, is now pre-
jjared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
f and Ma chinery. Only genuine and
exlmi^aHnnf ntl u r i e v!’ capabl< : of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
*, * *
Kow rev il luti ?i l * n Slne lting furnaces seems pro-
Dable The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, supplies
efficiency ? Ult assayers> which are marvellous in their
r ‘
If von want to borrow money, go to N.S.W
42* 71 »*■
*»* ‘ *
claims have been advanced on
behalf of duplex pumps. Some makers state that their
duplex pumps are ‘ double the capacity of single pumps
of same diameter and stroke.” An A. S. Cameron single
that En^"i, be u un , Ba(ely and comfortably at a speed
t duplex pump to pieces - Bu t even at
fhlnroH? i d * dl^]? X pu ™P s seldom attain even their
rpaS i BbCa i capacities, and the reason for this can be
readily explained. Apply to the Agents, Messrs. W. and
J. Lempnere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, for
further particulars. The A. S. Cameron pumps are noted
va,lve^gear 8 * InPlCltly ’ durabißty > and absence of outside
* * * *
.. e Phan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
", there has been a great improvement in the general
° u t' oo , k o' the engineering business since the newyerr
8 „rD d Vk” d that hw pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the ordei s
?n nhnf ng ? X i e a CUt m at Foo t s cray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18m. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOiin. diameter
T?n r Min- Vete « p 'P es > 'flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
J Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch •
* * * »
The Insurance Journal, London, writes of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s latest report
The results for the year are all round very gratifying
show,ng that the old business has been well mfintained
the new business largely increased, the funds materially
strengthened and the rate of interest earned higher.”*
• * • «
• The attention of all Mine Managers and others
interested in mmmg is directed to the advantages claimed
for the Wilfley Concentrating Table. First : It will
handle several times more material than any belt concern
trator made, without any exception. Second : It will
save a higher percentage of the values than any other
table, and will catch any float gold amalgam or quick-
' Vh r 'f Ch m ay ® sca P e from the amalgamating plates.
Third. It will make cleaner and more valuable concern
trates ; thus saying useless expense for transportation cf
Fn.?i- e /h SS T, aterla -’ and . al , so reducing smelters’ charges.
Fourth It requires little or no attention when once
adjusted and no expert is required either to adjust or to
run the machine. Fifth : It handles the pulp with less
floor space per ton than any other concentrator. Sixth •
It has no expensive belts to crack and wear out, and no
complicated machinery to keep in repair. Illustrated
catalogues with valuable notes on ore dressing can be
obtained free on application to the sole manufacturers in
Australia, The Austral Otis Company, South Melbourne.*
INSIST ON GETTING^
"■ IDRT&
•V
suJeel-pliced/v\ango,
> GFSEENMANGO,CASHMERE
All Croces andprQreKeepefttverywf)e?e.
SCHWEPPES MALVERN SPA
Bottled at Celebrated Malvern. Springe, England.
By Special Appoint-
ment to His Majesty
King Edward VII
The business of the Bank of Victoria stands
about where it did a year ago. The last 12 months hasn’t
been a period when there was much new business iAh
picked up. Deposits total £4,709,561, and the reserve n,
cash and State securities is £1,785,890, equal to nearwf so
percent, of all liabilities to the
a very solid and carefully-managed bank, and th« iw
that its profits increased even a little during the
dismal drought which has just passed is a BaHsf<fnf/» 0 *
feature. It has the most solid reserve fund hi Vieton* 7
and is making good headway in every respect. *
The Bulletin receives from some quarter un
known the prospectus of a proposed new institution
called the Mutual Assurance and Co-operative Benefh
Society—capital £lOO,OOO in 100,000 shares of £1 each
It proposes to do life assurance business (presumablv
both ordinary and industrial), and to provide mTdiwd
attendance, allowances during sickness, and allowances
on the birth of a child. No names of provisional direc-
tors are given, but the promoter named is William Morling
of 88 Upper Fort-street, Sydney, who seems to be the onfv
visible person connected with the show, and who receives
the money. No information as to who William Morlimr
is appears in the document received at this office Thp
promoter (apparently William Morling) is to recei've 250
fully-paid-up shares (face value, £250) and to be secretary
for at least the first year, receiving at least £2OO
a year and “1J times on actual increases of col-
lectable debit during that period.” What that means
,s a depressing mystery. The statement originally
printed set forth that he was to receive “ H per cent "
but “ times ”is pasted over “ per cent." The documents
also set forth that 10,000 fully paid-up shares are to be
reserved for division among the first 100 shareholders
who shall be called the Originators of the Society Pre
sumably they are to get these gratis ; if they haveto pay
for them, it is difficult to see where the special favor or
inducement comes in And, if they get them gratis,
there will be a woeful hole in the balance-sheet
Sup P,?t n ,r’ at . t . l ? e date of first balance-sheet, there
are 50,000 contributing shares taken up and 6s. each naid
on them, it seems liable to read like this : F
To , ca P' tal ~~ . , fi y cash received
10,250 paid-up f rom con .
shares given tributing
gratis £10,250 shareholders £12,600
50,000 contnbut- Shortage
ing shares, ss. caused by
paid .» «. 12,500 giving away
paid . up
shares .. 10,250
£22,750 £22,750
*.* * •
The circular which accompanies the prospectus
is, in some respects, a fine example of the spread of
education. For instance, it says :
lam impressed with the desire to obtain the privilege
and honor of your recognition as a distinguishing share-
holder of this society.”
The circular further states that owing to the progress
made by other societies in the same line of business, it is
absolutely certain that the Mutual Assurance and Co-
Operative Benefit Society will prosper greatly, “ sun-
ported by the fact that the shares are obtainable by such
simple and easy methods, that it lays within the reach of
all classes “lays’’sounds as if the society was a hen
depositing a handy, gratis and accessible egg. But even if
some societies are prospering (while some others are not
prospering to any great extent), it doesn’t necessarily
follow that there is room for another society—especially
one that is liable to be loaded with 10,000 organisers’
paid-up shares, 250 promoter’s paid-up shares, and a self-
appointed secretary at not less than £2OO a year, “and
who shall receive 1J times on actual increases of collect-
able debit during the first year ; also one which has no
visible provisional directors and no visible responsible
person whatever, except William Morling. When is a
rigid State audit and inspection of assurance societies
coming along?
* • • *
.The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
(Melbourne) closed on 31st December, 1902, the best half-
year it has had for some time :
Added
_ , to Re- Re-
trofits. Dividends, &c. serves, serves.
June, 1893 £4657-( 15 . P’°- =£4,500\
l written off = 8,348 ) £112,962
Dec., 1893 3908( 12 i p - c ’ _ 88 120
\ written off= 25,000 / »»,12U
June, 1894 2288 7J p.c. = 2,250 £3B 88,158
Dec., 1894 2265 7| „ „ 2,250 15 88,173
June, 1895 304 Nil 304 88 477
Dec., 1895 256 written off = 45,000 43’733
June, 1896 1702 4 p.c. „ 1,200 502 44,235
Dec., 1896 1779 6 „ „ 1,500 279 44,514
June, 1897 1757 6 ~ „ 1,500 257 44,771
Dec., 1897 1705 5 „ „ 1,500 205 44,976
June, 1898 1722 5 „ „ 1,500 222 45,198
Dec., 1898 110 l/ 5 ...*> «’»i >soo l _ 2 799
_ (written off = 42,000/
June, 1899 1954 5 p.c. „ 1,500 454 3,253
Dec., 1899 2693 5 „ „ 2,250 443 3,696
June 1900 3971 5 „ „ 2,250 1721 1 .
A.D. and M. Bank shares written up 1400 J o,ol '
Dec., 1900 3746 5 p.c. = 2,250 1496 8,313
June, 1901 2795 5 „ „ 2,250 545 8,858
Dec., 1901 2783 6 „ ~ 2,250 533 9,391
June, 1902 2436 5 „ ~ 2,250 186 9,577
Dec., 1902 3168 5 „ „ 2,250 918 10,495
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. has evi*
dently about surmounted the troubles of the boom
time, and it is now making steady progress. Apparently,
if it is content to keep its dividend at 5 per cent, for
another five or six years, and then only raises it in strict
moderation, and provided the new reserve is invested in
good State securities or otherwise put beyond all
question, there is nothing to prevent the T. E. and A. Co.
again becoming the biggest institution of its kind in
Australasia. The business continues to grow steadily,
and the co. has now £6,674,150 worth of estates in its
care.
* * * .
The hitch over Snow’s Adelaide tramway syndi-
cate is said to be so bad that the old companies are asked
to take payment, not in cash as promised, but half in
4J per cent, debentures and half in 5 per cent, preference
shares, both issued, of course, by the new company. In
other words, the old cat is asked to take payment in the
shape of a lien on a bit of the new cat, interest guaranteed
oythe rest of the new cat. So the case stands thus : The
old trams are to be bought up with money which will cost
4f per cent., and the 4f per cent, is to be supplied by the
people of Adelaide who use the trams. The State could
have found the money to buy up the old trams at 3£ per
cent., and if it screwed the same amount out of the
people, that amount, instead of paying interest only,
would have paid interest and £1 ss. per cent, per annum
sinking fund—sufficient at compound interest to extin-
guish the whole debt in about 35 years. Is Jenkins
Iscariot listening ?
• • • •
The Australasian Plate Glass Insurance
Co. (Melbourne), a small concern with £5OOO paid-up
capital, shows a profit of £lO5B for the year which ended
Ist December, 1902—equal to £2l 3s. 2d. per cent, on
capital. A dividend of 8 per cent, absorbs £4OO, and
leaves the co. with net reserves of £3595. Plate-glass is
one of the obscure bye-ways of insurance business, but it
pays well.
• * • *
“ E.H.G.” : Better face your loss in both cases.
We would do so if in your position. Anyhow, consult a
straight investment broker. Will give you name of an
honest broker whom you can personally consult if you
send stamped addressed envelope.
Oo T L e „o?S N . S „“ t C& ExroET Aowot
November, 1902 hl £hly successful year on 80th
Profits. Dividends and Added
Dividend Tax. 110 Re - '
1895.. serves. Berves-
-1896.. £1,040 Vet = £6750 _ £32,620
1897.. 8,189 Mi, ~ £1.040 83,660
1898.. 11,011 ~ 8,189 41,849
1899.. 47,340 10 ner cent ,iT,, 11,011 52,860
1900.. 75,050 10 er cent “ 11.474 35,866 88,726
1901.. 39,480 10 ” ** 11 08,576 152,302
1902.. 72,303 20 ” ” woln 28 ' 006 18°. 3 08
- S5-2S
reserve fund £lO5 non • nsel . v es. The reserves consist of
undivided p’rSt * J^^3 ePre l C ; al,on re «erve £43,344; and
£54,639 of this to eaniffl h,, b '?■ pro P° Bed .to transfer
holders a present of 109 27a‘Rh maklns J he exiBtin g share-
With all its prosneritv d 7 L. hare fu Pald up to 10s - each-
of repaying the £96 647 Jf wever » co * shows no signs
moneyldvancld at a m^ 0W f S the Gover oment, being
prosperous the S^l ate J at f of intereBt in leBB
Encouragement Board 6 it£ at a £ d D ™- y Produce
off this liability before H- b ?i n Ise t 0 clear
cent. ; bad days mivL?. 1 ? th ® dividend to 20 per
weigh heavily? thW. When , tbe liabilifc y
very handv just now tn State would find the money
Co - * better retam
Profits. Dividends. A< to Cd R e-
Rpqpcvpq serves.
Dec"’ 1197 gg 7percent. = £lO5O - ‘ £15,120
June, 1898 1125 7 ” ” £5 %
Dec., 1898 1050 } _ 16 ’, 598
June, 1899 1068 7 per cent. = 1050 18 15 610
Dec., 1899 1389 7 „ Joso 330 H’® 1 ®
June, 1900 849 7 fnxn 339 15 .955
Dec., 1900 915 7 ” *’ ~ 15,754
June, 1901 493 7 ” ” J 252 ~ 15,619
Dec. 1901 1910 9 ** 11 15,067
June, 1902 701 6 ” ” 1 100 15,236
Dec 1902 1174. « 99 99 15,037
eC - 6 „ „ 900 274 15,311
0 . Liquid Assets.
stores .. ..
Purchased ore In stock .' si as
Products in transit on June 30 (since realised)'' no 525
Products on hand in Australia ..
Furniture, &c. 05,88 8
Investments lavoo
Sundry balances .. .. ' “ "
Cash r. :: lIS
T ° tal " n i £264,324
Current Liabilities.
Interest on debentures, &c. .. £9 433
Loans on security .. .. " " ifi’nnn
Sundry balances .. " ” " 21577
Advances on products in transit .. 132^279
Total £171,289
nSToK a , BUrp, « 8 of £93,035. But there are
±,100,000 debentures redeemable on December 31, 1907
'e«QRS changes the position into a deficiency of
£6965. Since June 30, though, the co.’s position
has become much more unsatisfactory. Making no
charge for depreciation, the year’s profit was £13,927 :
o'® , CO M C ses5 es £ll '°?° for depreciation (a reasonable
amount), and so brings the net profit to £2927.
instead, however, of even this small profit con-
tinuing, the October creep must have put the co
a good deal on the wrong side for some months :
and now, in addition, it has forced the co. to undertake
the big and very costly job of sinking and equipping a
new hauhng-shaft. Further the co. wants to add to its
magnetic separation plant, used for the production of a
zinc product, and it has been making a profit out of its
small plant (3000 tons a month). As it has no cash to
speak of, notwithstanding its surplus of £93,035 of more-
or-less liquid assets, it must either raise money or let the
proposal slide ; and, so far as the new shaft, at any rate,
is concerned, it hardly dare let that slide—the risk is too’
great.
• * • •
Queensland Menzies (W.A.), since the intro-
duction of rock-drills, is being opened up expeditiously.
Costs in the past generally ranged about £6 per ton, but
are now given as £3. December’s return of 780 tons for
16580 z., worth £6OOO, left a profit of £3500, while Nov
profit was returned as £2OOO, but only 300 tons were
treated. Divs. during current year will apparently beat
all past records. Two reefs are being S3’stematically
worked, both being from 12in. to 18in. wide, but erratic,
and, at times, hard to follow. At the 446 ft. level the east
reef is rather poor, and has been throivn by a cross-
course. At same level the west reef carries good gold,
and this continues in a winze below this level.
sent, co.’s prospects are exceptionally good.
♦ • m *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) is making strenuous
efforts to minimize costs, and reach the div. stage ere
shareholders’ patience collapses. Steam is being abolished
and electricity from the Power Co. is being substituted.
A Merton’s furnace is being added to the equipment, and
should materially increase output. Roasting by this
furnace is said to cost only 3s. a ton against Bs. by the
Brown’s furnaces now in use, and the space occupied by
the furnace is only about one-fourth. The drill bores
recently located both Consols and Perseverance lodes
below present workings. Neither was payable where
intersected, but, as both are patchy, that is considered of
little moment. Costs are given at 455. 6d. per ton and
value of ore as 725. This should represent a substantial
profit; somehow it doesn’t, or at least hasn’t.
• * * *
Associated Northern (W.A) continues sinking
the main shaft —now down 730 ft. At current rate of
progress, some months must elapse ere the rich ore at
1100 ft. is reached. Sulpho-telluride ore is still being
shipped to Dapto at a cost, including mining, of £6 per
ton. Pity that some cheaper treatment cannot be
devised. A large quantity of high-class, as well as
second-grade, ore is paddocked, but no treatment-plant
is yet ordered. Directors await the results of the Elmore
oil plant, shortly to be thoroughly tested on a commercial
basis on L.V. Consols. This process is expected to be
much more economical than anything hitherto tried, but
distant hills are green.
* • • •
Management of Westralia Waihi, Davyhurst,
allege that the Golden Pole reef has slewed round
and is making straight into their property. Any-
one buying shares on this alleged change in the
course of the reef is likely to be grievously disap-
pointed. The Golden Pole reef runs parallel to Waihi’s
western boundary at a distance of about 400 ft., and would
have to turn at right angles to reach latter property.
Waihi may be a good gambling-counter, but it is nothing
more on present prospects.
• • • •
The Westralia and East Extension, Bonnievale
(W.A.), which has for years beer, producing about IOOOoz.
monthly, announces a Dec. return of 22560 z. from 2071
tons. This enhanced output has come as a surprise to
most people. About a year ago the mine was placed
wnnH*™ T? lan *S? nienfc ; which BeemB t 0 h » ve worked
the tw f BUrfaCe p!lant waB badl 3’ arranired, with
need if fc l h * fc 4 T lce as mar, y men had to be employed as
non" the , caBe - . Since ’97 the co. has produced
p b ° Pt 45 > o °o yearly, but distributed no divs. Vale of
ardle adjoining (formerly the New Victoria) still
away on lOdwt. ore, but there has been no div.
since the mine was bought by Dr. Simon.
J*** *?“S a , n ( W -A.), will shortly start opening
°l ;9 levei a vertical depth of 750 ft. In all levels
Hhif? A th the pay . chute cufc Out at about 400 ft. from
shaft. As an experiment the drive at 700 ft. was con-
-BtonadwMdthentr2o° ln b J A u k counfcr y- A new make of
600 ft waB . tbBn , found .and has been followed for about
iTj?" chufce avera ges about 12dwt s . for 7ft. wide
and adds enormously to the mine’s ore reserves, although
will shn?tivh frrad f e ' /J? e s £ uth drives at the other levels
™ L y be ® xte nded. Costs now given at 30s. a ton,
and as the ore treated is worth £5 10s., profit pans out
block* f* to £™ 0 °- u M r ? cenfcl - v acquired the northern
blocks for £3OOO cash against its original offer of £BOOO
fW d" d 28,000 abates. These blocks will probably be
floated as a separate concern.
• • • •
. J l ' C ° rb ? u H la *e manager of Mt. Char-
,fHannan 8 Reward (W.A.), has gone to London to
the rfch d i reC i orB ' H f . r u e3lgned ’ as his P° ,ic y letting
the rich leaders on tribute was called in question, but
b ' B J eB,gn a f, °n was not accepted. Little doubt that his
P° cy ' 8 I be right one, as the leaders are small and costly
to work, and one bad month would break the co. Cor-
bould is one of the largest shareholders in the co., and a
man of independent means, so can afford to ride a high
horse. Mine is only turning out 6dwt. stone, which, by
excessive economy, may cover costs, but it looks a hope-
less proposition. It is worked on far too small a scale for
a ijuli-ownea co.
* • • •
Bayley’s, Coolgardie (W.A.), continues to be a
great disappointment. Despite the large amount of
development done during the past 12 months, nothing of
any real value was located. The reef cut at 1000 ft. level
was driven on for a long distance, but was mostly barren
and, even where gold-bearing, was quite unpayable!
Judging by results, it is a waste of money to go on', but.
aS *n ik Fe 19 a !!*l are call up, co.*B weary existence
will be prolonged for some months yet.
• • • »
raise a loud smile from those knowing
b,Btor y °? Peak Hill goldfields (W.A.)to learn
that Darlington Simpson has effected large economies
increased efficiency and enlarged output by the change of
management and other administrative alterations he
carried out on his recent visit. This is the third manager
Darlington Simpson has personally appointed, yet co. has
gone from bad to worse. It is to be hoped the new boss
will lick things into shape, and once more get co. on div.-
list. Doubtful if fidwt. ore can be made to yield much of
a profit at Peak Hill. '
* * • •
Fraser’s, Southern Cross (W.A.), is going to
close down, as Shallcross, manager of the British and
Foreign Investment Syndicate, which owns the show, finds
that cash provided is not enough to meet cost of work
entailed in opening up 500 ft., as a new shaft will be
needed. Despite many lessons, capitalists seem unable
u e n rn - thafc ’ Bave in ver y exce Ptional cases, £20,000 is
wholly inadequate to equip and open a mine The
closing-down of Fraser’s will be a nasty blow to the Cross
and to the owners of the surrounding properties, which
•njoyed a reflected glory.
• * * ,
Burbank’s, Coolgardie (W.A.), is again on the
down grade, the rich patch of ore which provided last
year 8 high returns and the div. having petered.
Developments are backward, as the management was
depending on following the reef in present levels into the
south block, but, unfortunately, it twisted round to the
east into the Lady Robinson. For a mine of over seven
years standing to be no deeper than 430 ft. doesn’t say
much for management energy. Present manager (Mann)
cannot be blamed for present state of affairs.
• * • •
Paringa, Kalgoorlie (W.A.) is once more being
rigged on the assertion that the Brown Hill-Iron Duke
chute will shortly be cut in the south shaft. As the
diamond drill has proved that the lode has straightened
up, and is vertically below the Iron Duke shaft at 900 ft.
and only 67ft. west at 1100 ft., the chances of Paringa
shortly getting it are poor. Paringa property comprises
some splendid “ position ” blocks, but the pay lodes seem
to pass them by on both sides.
• * • •
Hannan’s Kalgoorlie Prop, is aco. with a capital
of £300,000. As a gold-mine it is a cypher. It exists as a
water-mine and from this source £lB3l was earned in 18
months. The administration expenses in London alone
absorbed this amount, directors’ fees figuring at £1275.
In any place other than London it would be considered a
shocking scandal for directors to take such fees but there
it is considered quite the proper thing. Anyhow the
shareholders never kick.
• * • »
For over 20 years past the mining industry of
Bendigo has been free from anything like a scandal, but
the different manoeuvres in connection with the Hustler’s
Reef mine are likely to sully this good reputation. Last
week’s yield averaged only 41dwts. per ton as against
13fdwts. for previous week. There was no official in-
timation to indicate that there was likely to be such a
fall, but market operators seemed to know all about it as
they oversold largely. They came in a rush to cover with
the result that shares were run up against them to a
higher price than that which ruled when the good yield
was reported. It is recorded that it is “a remarkable
feature with this co. that shares invariably fall when a
rich yield is brought in, and rise when the yield is poor.”
There is really nothing remarkable about it. The facts
demonstrate that the stock is being made the plaything
of market-manipulators. Wise outsiders will keep clear
of it, and let the bulls and bears have the game of cut-
throat to themselves.
* • a a
A really choice and cheeky item in the great
wild cat industry comes from Melbourne. It concerns
the Great Australian Central Transvaal Co., formed about
a year ago to exploit alleged auriferous areas in the
Transvaal, found by a prospector ** whose word was
guaranteed ”by certain ex-cohentingenters. Co. consists
of 2000 shares of £lO each ; half of these were allotted
(paid-up) to the promoters, and of the other half 200 only
were sold, so that 5-6ths of the concern belonged to people
who contributed nil to the funds. An expert was sent
to S’Africa, and he promptly reported that the alleged
rich reefs had no existence except in the imagination of
the prospector and ex-soldiers, and that there was no
gold-bearing land available, the whole countryside
having been acquired by big syndicates. Under the
circs, the sensible thing to do was to refund to
the contributing shareholders the balance of funds in
hand, but this did not suit the gentle promoters, who
formulated a scheme for the application of the money to
the purchase of a mining show at Maldon (Vic.), in
which, of course, they would hold 5-6ths interest 1 At
the meeting at which the position was explained, strong
opposition was shown to this unseemly game of grab, but
the chairman silenced it by declaring that the paid-up
holders' proxies were sufficient to carry the proposal.
This case furnishes another answer to the question pro-
mulgated by the Victorian press : “ Why is it that people
are fighting shy of mining speculations ? "
* » * •
Stannary Hills Mines and Tramway Company,
Limited, N.Q. (tin mine, O. Pasley, manager), expects to
start up during next month. The plant consists of 20-
head of 13cwt. stamps, jigs, shaking tables and revolving
buddies. Huntington mills are to be used for re-grinding,
and vanners for treating the slimes. The practice of
using Huntington mills for re-grinding is very common
in America, where it has been found by experience that
these machines produce the least amount of slimes.
Each sft. mill has a capacity of about 75 tons of tailings
per day.
• • *
A N.Q. paper prophesies that when Mt. Garnet
has disposed of the ore now in sight—four to six months’
run—it will probably be down another 200 ft. and “on
richer ore than any yet smelted—wide Cobar, Moonta, and
other big copper-mines.” It will be news to those who
have any knowledge of these big shows that the ore im-
proved with depth, The rule is the reverse all the world
°J er > out Garnet shareholders may console themselves, if
they wish, with the supposition that their mine is going
to prove the exception. But if they have any sanguine-
ness in this respect it is not likely to be reflected in the
share-market.
* * ♦ •
English shareholders in Lyell Blocks Co. have
acceded to the demand of the Australian holders for the
formation of a nonliability co. to be registered in Victoria,
and for the practical management to be in local hands.
.New co. will consist of 300,000 shares, to be allotted pro
rata to present holders on payment of 6d. per share,
leaving a liability of 2s. per share. Go. has proved the
existence of an enormous body of pug carrying native
copper, and puddling on a small scale proved that it is
possible for the deposit to be worked at a handsome profit
if provision be made for the handling of large quantities
at small cost.
• « • »
Reported from Southern Cross (W.A.)that two
men, Lang and Hat, have struck a reef equalling the
phenomenal Londonderry find. Reef 3ft. wide, carrying
an oz. per ton, with exceptionally rich pockets. Some of
the knobs" will be shown for the benefit of Lyne’s
picnic-party.
* • • •
Broken Hill trade figures for 1902 are among its
JS" 6 - Total exports, 327,350, against £1,872,411 in
1901 and £2,542,700 in 1900. Chief metal items of export
for a few years past
° r es- Concentrates. Slimes. “Zincs.”
•• £319,191* £689,916 £19,587 £14,401
7898 •• 351,108 950,587 21,971 19,151
7899 “ 352,316 1,220,171 40,570 40,916
J 9 9? •• *25,079 1,754,722 37,747 38,611
799 J " H 7 1.270,380 30,360 396
190 . 2 r lu* 114 ’ 842 912,495 30,121 239
In this year £621,745 of bullion was also exported.
This fail is due, of course, to the metal slump. In spite
proflt by increasing output,
the total of the latter has fallen
1900. 1901. 1902.
Tons. Tons. Tons,
wes .. .. 126,468 100,881 88,450
Concentrates .. 256,962 263,830 231,559
f, 1 ™ 68 •• •• 44,987 37,983 48,954
Zincs .. .. 19,734 264 278
Approximately, Ilf million feet of timber was used up,
against 13 million feet in 1901.
Gympie is gloomy, despite its “record ” returns
for last year. The complaint is that the number of div.
mines is limited, and that the divs., large as thev are in
some instances, go into few hands. The Queensland
official journal refers to the “uneven distribution of
profits amonga comparatively fortunate and favored few ”
and reports that the share market is as dull as it well can
be, speculators, investors and shareholders alike wailing
anxiously for something to turn up. “A development is
wanted badty from one of the new ventures We
have come to that stage where there is nothing
in sla.te. The banks won’t buy slate now,’ as on?
speculator feelingly, but tersely, remarked, and no
more they will I; neither will the market respond
to any great extent to its presence, unless it mav be
under such exceptional circumstances as the cutting of
it would be on the south side of the Inglewood. Beyond
this particular locality, we have got plentv of slate—
heaps of it. What would be a saving and reviving de-
velopment must come from one or more of the new
mines, and then it must consist of a good-sized reef, with
plenty of gold in it.” Time was when “slate” was a
word to be conjured with, at Gympie. Now, it is a
medium for official sarcasm.


David Jones & Co.
“ORIENT” BOOTS.
Special Purchase of American-
made Boots, Black or Brown
Vici Kid,
Price
21/=
By Post
22/-
Georges Barrack Sts.
-^SYDNEY.
IF IT’S A
Stand Cameras
. . and . .
Hand Cameras
from ss. to £5O.
CAMERA
WORTH HAVING
YOU CAN GET IT AT
AND NOTE—
Not only Cameras of every grade, style, and size, but also the best
-Senses, Elates, Printing Papers, Mounts, Chemicals, Chemical
Cartridge;, Dishes, Printing Frames, Picture Frames, Dark-
'-“P-. Measure Gasses, Scales and Weights, Cutting
s and^No'velty 60^668 ~ 10 ever y conceivable Photo. Requisite
Writs for New Illustrated Cataligie —~o3t Frea.
|
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.
LEADING PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS.
66 KING ST., SYDNEY, & 93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
SOCIETY
[?]
[?]
According to Wellerian philosophy, it
becomes an increasingly risky business to be a
man in Australia. Taking the 8. A. census figures,
40 years ago there was only one widow to every
33 males, and that gave a man a fair chance of
escape; but last year the risk had grown to lin
18 Also the habit of being dead seems to be
spreading, for the proportion of widowers as well
as of widows is on the up-grade. At almost any
time, though, there are, roughly, twice as many
widows as there are widowers; just now every
37th male and every 16th female are in the bereaved
class.
The Northern Territory census gives some re-
markable results. Of the whole 4096 people only
487 are females; and there are but 358 children
under 15. To go round among 2758 males over 15
there are only 179 females over 15. There isn’t
a solitary unmarried woman in the “45 and up-
ward ” section, and only 55 who are unclaimed at
21—55 among 2092 men of corresponding age.
Certainly a pretty large proportion of this male
surplus calls itself either Ah Sin or Lung Foon.
* * * *
Federal Reps. Stewart, M‘Donald, and
Bamford, at a recent Dow Creek (Q.) meeting,
had the unique experience of having a vote of con-
fidence proposed by one woman and seconded by
another. These amazons proudly boast of having
cut cane, trashed it, and loaded it; and they
want to know what there is in the work to injure
white men.
• • • *
An epidemic in Sydney which is puzzling
medical men just now, takes the form of a malig-
nant form of enteritis, associated with or followed
by—apparently—tubercular disease of the bowels
or of some other organ. It was this which killed
off Mr. W. H. Rowe, private secretary to the
Governor. Women in child-bed have been the
most frequent sufferers from the disease, which
has caused a very heavy mortality.
A COMPARATIVE TERM.
HE: " May I call you my own? ”
SHE: “Well, you may call me your owner." HE: “My ownest!”
N.S.W. birth-rate is decidedly looking up
—perhaps because public discussion of the decline
in births has had the effect of making babies
somewhat “ fashionable ” again. December’s rate
in Sydney and suburbs is much greater than for
the last ten years. At the same time there was a
heavy increase in the death-rate—especially
among children —chiefly from diseases of the
digestive organs. The short supply of water (with
the consequent results of more dust in the houses,
more dirt in the household vessels, and more
microbes in the household air) accounts for this.
Probably the real reason why the S.M.
Herald blushfully shifted the birth notices into
the inside of the paper is that a baby is always
undressed at first, and, therefore, certain doubts
as to its respectability linger in the mind of Mister
James.
* * * •
At the initial election of nine directors for
the newly-formed Civil Service Co-operative
Society of Melbourne, a lady, Miss M. E. Cuth-
bertson, of the State Factories Department, was a
candidate and was returned third on the list.
Another of the fat prerogatives of maledom gone !
The female “guinea-pig” can now be seen in
the distance without the aid of specs.
• • • *
Even in the commercial exam., lately
introduced by the Adelaide University, a woman
is bracketed first; and her sex scores five out of
13 passes. It is getting harder and harder to
cheat your wife on pay-day—and it’s not getting
any easier for a man to have a pay-day.
• * * ¥
“Benedick” : My objection to S.M.
Herald’s transference of “ Births, Marriages, and
Deaths ” to its news-sheet is that the old man has
to postpone perusal of the spicy divorce-case until
the missus has finished with cradle, altar, and
tombstone. Formerly he used generously to toss
her the advertisement-sheet to keep her quiet.
* * » *
In addition to knocking £60,000 off the
old age pensions dole in Victoria, as Treasurer
Shiels threatens to do, his Government seems to
be set on bringing the beneficent system into as
much disrepute as possible. Lately, at Inglewood,
a miner, who earned a bare living fossicking, was
actually gaoled for a fortnight for failing to find
3s. a week towards his mother’s pension. Even
the coldest charity doesn’t bestow its gifts at the
expense of the gaoling of the recipient’s children.
And the old age pension is not and was never
intended as a charity, but as a poor measure of
justice to many whose lifelong generosity hcd
exceeded their thrift.
* * * *
Ever since Brisbane had a few inches of
rain, the unfortunate residents, not possessing
tanks, have had to drink a turbid mixture that
looks like weak coffee, and smells like the Yarra
at its worst. The Govt, analyst reported that it
was “ absolutely unfit for domestic use.” Cause,
defective filtration and too much dead cow and
dog.
* * • *
Brisbane is seriously thinking of getting a
new water-supply from Stradbroke Island. Con-
sidering the width of the strait between the island
and mainland, and then the distance inland to
Brisbane, this will be the largest water-supply
undertaking, bar one, that Australia has yet,
attempted. yr
At Geelong (Vic.),
it was recently declared
to be “ one of the Curses
of Federation ” that the
charge for a three-
minutes’ telephone con-
versation between that
dead-alive town and Mel-
bourne was lOd. for 3min.
instead of the old charge
of Is. for smin. Where
the curse came in was that
the 3min. were mostly
occupied in getting con-
nected with the person
wanted. This item about
the Curse of Federation
was promptly reprinted
all over Australia as a
serious reason for seces-
sion The Federal postal
department promptly ex-
ploded the yarn by point-
ing out that the 3min.
charged for only com-
menced after the parties
were connected. It is to
be hoped the explanation
will be as widely circu-
lated as theoriginal bogus
Curse was. Still the ar-
rangement, it must be
admitted, is rough on
Geelong. That town is
so slow that 3min. are
very little use to it. A
special extension should
be granted in its case on
account of the extra
deadness of the inhabi-
tants. The fact that the
complaint came from
Geelong, not from Mel-
bourne —from the dead
town instead of the live one—is significant. When
Melbourne is really on the job it can fix up a big
land swindle, and invent a wild cat mine, and steal
an umbrella in 3min.
* * * *
Lord Beauchamp’s appointment of Rev.
Carr Smith as Government House chaplain had
none of the secondary effects expected from it.
“ Society ” didn’t go in for morning prayers, nor
did the succeeding Governor take the appoint-
ment as a precedent. The Rev. Smith allotted
his chaplaincy salary to Sydney charities.
HE WASN'T A DEAN SWIFT.
SHE: “ You have quite a knack of making me
feel small."
HE (flattered): “Tm sure, dear, I didn't mean
to he cruel."
SHE: “O I know you didn't do it on purpose.
Your sayings are more of the enfant terrible
order."
The frequency of shooting accidents shows
that we urgently need a law prohibiting the use
of by “infants.” In three fatal sporting
reported on Jan. 3, the ages of the
members of the shooting parties ranged from 8i
years to 17. At Chiltern (Vic.) an eight-year-ola
boy was accidentally shot by one of nis childish
companions. At Beulah (Vic.) a 14-year-old boy
stooped over his rifle and received the bullet in
the temple. At Tubbal (N.S.W.) a 14-year-old
lad handed his rifle to a younger sister while he
tried to dislodge a rabbit from a log, telling her to
shoot when bunny appeared. She did—and shot
her brother dead. The “ griat natural resources ”
of Australia don’t produce children fast enough
to allow of slaughter F.ke this in the holiday
seasons.
* » * •
Two old-time Adelaide hotels are being
demolished for rebuilding. With the “Eagle”
goes the stable in which Federal-Clerk-of-Parlia-
ment Blackmore’s Lancelot was kept, when Adam
Lindsay Gordon rode it in the first Hunt Club
Cup. Hindley-street was then the fashionable
thoroughfare of Adelaide. The “ Stag,” on the
eastern boundary of the city, is the market-
gardeners’ house, and is much behind the times ;
although many customers are alleged to have
deserted it when re-built in its present form, on
the ground that it was too “ stylish ” and palatial.
The “ Exchange ” will be the only leading hotel
that keeps to little low parlours on the London
model.
Sydney’s parson Tremayne Dunstan
says that he attended a church at Chicago
(U.S. A.), where a whistling solo by a gentleman
performer was a feature of the service. The
church with a clown and a dog fight in the service
will yet arrive. In the land of trusts and dollars
and hurry and pickled-pork, religion, so far at
least as the great cities are concerned, is degene-
rating into a weary variety-show. It is almost
the only thing left that is done by hand, there-
fore there is a feeling that it is slow, antiquated,
unreal and out-of-date. The soul-saving machine!
whereby you put the worst sinner in at one end
and a saint comes out at the other, will yet be
heard of in Yankeeland.
Sydney undertakers, in consequence of
the Arbitration Court having forced them to pay
fairly decent wages to their employees, threaten
to refuse to bury bodies on Sundays and certain
specified holidays. Mere bluff ! If the ghouls
who eat and drink and sleep and grow fat over the
shops where the coffin-hammer taps ever merrily;
who lay out rose-walks and lawns to saunter
within the sight and sound of the grim instruments
of burying ; and who defile the dead with vulgar
advertisements to increase their profits—attempt
that, a municipal undertaking business would
surely soon come. For decency’s sake, it should
come, anyhow. There is something inexpressibly
repulsive in the touting for custom and the eager
preying on superstitious regard for the dead by
urging swelling display, which mark the private
undertaker’s business. A municipal department,
doing the work decently and reverently, would be
a blessing. It would abolish the present disgust-
ing habit of “display windows” in busy streets
showing rows of baby-coffins and coffins in process
of construction ; and the ghoulish custom of run-
ning livery-stables in conjunction with corpse-
burying—horse and driver taking Jones to his
grave in the morning, and Smith to his bridal in
the afternoon.
There is nothing more nauseating than the
“grand funeral,” with the undertaker’s advertise-
ments plastered over the corpse, and the shoddy
display into which the relatives have been trapped
by greedy canvassing ; unless it is the burying of
the poor wretch who dies in “lodgings.” His
dust is smuggled out the back-door over-night,
across the fence, into the narrow lane, then, fur-
tively, to the undertaker’s shop, whence next day
“the funeral moves.” A funeral must never
move from hotel or boarding-house, as that would
be bad for business.
m * * •
The Australian daily papers recorded how
the late Frederick Sargood’s coffin was “a hand-
some silver-mounted one” —no doubt because the
undertakers, who advertise well, asked them to.
And they recorded with equal pride that Mr. P.
KennifFs coffin was “handsome and silver-
mounted ” for the same reason. When will some
“sorrowing relatives,” with a sense of the fitness
of things, take action to shut-down on this
noisome combine for the mutual profit of the body-
burying ghoul and the advertisement-exposing
ghoul?
• • * •
At the hearing of a recent assault case at
Prahran (Melb.) police-court, one Edward Barton,
an undertaker, deposed, as reported, that he
“ had been attracted by the sound of someone
choking.” “ Attracted ”is distinctly good.
• * • •
Two girls disappeared a few days ago in
Sydney. One turned up again as casually as she
had vanished ; she had simply taken a new
situation and had forgotten to mention the fact.
As regards the other, a hat and parasol were found
on Bondi cliffs, and a body was seen wedged
between two rocks in the middle of a heavy surf.
The police, after a dozen unsuccessful attempts,
in the course of which several constables nearly
became shark food, got a rope tied to it just as
night was coming on, but had to leave it till day-
light and a lower tide made it possible to chip
away the rocks that held it In the morning it
was gone. Possibly it was a third girl who thus
disappeared ; there is a large floating population
of girls, any one of whom might drop out for
weeks before her absence was noticed. Certainly
the hat was identified, but then hats and peop’
are always being identified.
A FELLOW THAT HATH LOSSES.
“I lozes, and I lozes, and yet I will keep on
tendin'!"
If there is not in Sydney a city bye-law
sufficient to put down the new advertising idea of
flying from public parks and harbor resorts kites
bearing tradesmen’s devices, such an enactment
should be passed at once. Sydney’s beauty is
already defiled to the point of desecration with
advertisements ; if the sky is to be also given up
to the blazoning of various wares there will be no
refuge for the eye.
THE TWO STARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have followed the sins of reckless youth,
With the devil to time the dince,
And farther and farther I drift from truth
As the hopeless years advance.
But ashine on the gates of the future barred,
Two stars in the darkness move
To guide me—the star of a man’s regard,
And the star of a woman’s love.
And I will go down to the deep abyss
In scorn of the path of old,
If fortune will leave me a true girl's kiss,
And a true man’s hand to hold.
VIC.
MARINBS. O.


m
12?
GO TO HBLI--
UIOLANI* for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hager?,
foreign stamp importer
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
SILVER STAR STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
BILE BEANS^OCL*
Patrick Kenniff, hanged in Brisbane for
the murder of Constable Doyle, had a record
funeral. The hearse was followed from the gaol
by over 30 mourning-coaches and vehicles and a
large procession of sympathisers.
A fact, not noted by the agitators for the
reprieve of the Kenniff brothers, was that the
whole case hung upon a question of identification.
A black tracker, Sam Johnson, alleged that he
saw the Kenniffs in Lethbridge’s Pocket on a
certain date. He knew only one of the convicted
men, whom he had met but once; yet he swore
to the identity of both prisoners, although
they were differently dressed and barbered in the
bush and dock. Granted that Dahlke and Doyle
were brutally murdered, their bodies burned, and
that the articles of apparel found belonged to
them—was the tracker’s uncorroborated evidence
as to identification sufficient to convict ? That is
the case in a nutshell.
* • * •
Lovers of justice in Australia, whatever
their opinions as to the intrinsic merits of the
case, should certainly support, with purse and
speech, the movement to appeal in the Kenniff
case to the Privy Council. That one of the
brothers should have been hanged whilst an
appeal was pending was a monstrous act of
savagery, which can only be seen in its true light
by the majority of people if it should happen that
the reference to the Privy Council establishes the
illegality of the verdict on the Kenniffs.
* * • »
Query : Now that Patrick and James
Kenniff are respectively hanged and gaoled for
life, what are the Q. police going to do about the
third man ? The two brothers were sentenced on
the evidence, mainly, of the black-tracker “Sam”
Johnson, who swore that there was a third man
(who, he said, was young Kenniff, but this was
disproved) in the fight—the man whom Doyle and
Dahlke chased. Where is he ? It is clear that,
unless the tracker committed perjury, one of the
murderers is still at large. Seeing that Patrick
Kenniff died protesting his innocence it may be
that the prime villain is still to be caught.
• • • •
The usual food-discussion has this year
been started by Dr. Gresswell, Melbourne’s health-
officer, who boldly affirms —in contradiction of
most authorities, and in seeming contradiction of
common-sense —that the hot Australian climate
demands a very heavy meat-proportion in diet.
Itis, of course, a good deal dependent on individual
constitutions. But, generally speaking, a very
large proportion of meat in the diet will produce
in Australia a coarseness of fibre, degeneration of
the various organs of excretion, and, ultimately, a
death more rapid and more unpleasant than is
quite necessary.
HE KNEW.
THE LITERARY WOMAN: “Do you know an
Englishwoman’s love-letters . ? ”
THE MERE MAN: “ Yes, £ s. d."
One correspondent to the latest food dis-
cussion ventured this :
For the past five and a half months I have lived on the
eat-when hungry plan, and find it answers admirably.
My hunger only comes once a day, at 1 p.m.; it is always
“ on time,” but can wait patiently any length of time if
necessary. Australians need to distinguish between
“hunger” and “appetite.” Hunger is natural, and
only one in 1000 knows what it is ; the other 999 never
wait for it, but eat because it is “ eating time.” Appetite
is artificial, and may be cultivated to be either continu-
ous or capricious. Many are afraid to go without their
breakfast because they may be hungry before they can
get a meal. Let such be assured that a fast of from one
day to three weeks will do them less harm than a meal
taken without natural hunger.
That may suit an individual; it wouldn’t suit
many people. Man’s stomach has been fitted by
centuries of custom to several fills, or partial
fills, a day; there are in the world but few men
like old Dr. Fordyce, who ate but once daily, and
at that meal took in a couple of pounds of beef
with appropriate trimmings. Possibly, at one
stage of his evolution, man could get along with
one fill a week. Possibly at some future time he
will have evolved out of most of his ‘‘innards ”
and be like Wells’ anticipated man, practically all
head, living on an atom or two of concentrated
essences. Meanwhile, the average man had better
fall in with his stomach’s rules.
* Traveller ” writes :
by delayeVtnuh^ 8 BenWrWn' ° f P, eople inconvenienced
discredit State ® M od Crew > who to
to put the blame on "the IWay . 8 ’ are endeav ouring
The blustering land iohhp r ° lder l. of , the rail ™y men.
men are trying to brine- hi, .!i yS ' n ¥ 8 ! ? ud v °*ce that the
into disfavor with the pubhc^lfThe^ur ' l l he railwayB
sense, it must see that Rpni J- th , e , P ubllc has got any
the trouble. By flf® 1 /- 18 the cause ot all
engines go uncle aned tl \ e j lll ® of the men the
source of delavs with ™ unrepaired. A more fruitful
Ployment of women as tralns - howev e r , is the em!
Bent is replacing men sfaHnn t^ n T ast - ers ' Eve T week,
centres with women tV° n ' ma Bters m outlying country
readUy S ioaded r wtoi the so” *be
m • • 9
A “ Mere Man ” :
poney for some smart dame who will start a
kirt At w rUfiti n° n l\ the art of handling- the trained
was vreat fn y n r ey C^ k A t^round > between the races it
ing the stens nf W^ Ch th ® d , amosels and dowagers climb-
skfrts with t c e Frand-stands and carrying their
some 3 carried*them h S rV,f r,ed them in £ront of them,
' th ® m behind them, some just dragged them
and iised h 5 j d on them, and got tangled up
superb Und ?- f their br eath. The locking
net eetln^ was ever better chiffoned ;
-reams of net and gauze floated along the lawn spied
confec^ns 8 ea T ye *° ds ! they took holdoTthe
theirlnnls h b °i h bands after carefully tucking
II u- h j d Ul ? der their arms at an angle which
too clns(» in h n if- SS A lf u ot deatb ’ to anyone coming
There was a hitch; and a mass
reminded "T dra^? d round and creased, and
W nn=t d a mos 9uito-net blown against a clothes-
ahsn?H rtti Th K wear ers ascended the steps by a series of
absurd little hops and to hold the skirts high enough
udHnf^ OU il der K had t° b e bunched up, the arms held
widely akimbo, and the head thrust forward. Writer
noted with admiration one dignified matron dressed in
black lace over silver-grey, with a filmv hat of the
same shades. She paused a moment at the bottom
of the steps, gathered her skirt over her elbow
in a manner which made the rest of it drape most
artistically round her handsome figure and showed off its
curved outlines to the best advantage, then she swept
easily and gracefully to the top row of seats and remained
an ornament to the ground till the last race was run.
• * * m
Although six weeks have passed since the
last “ displays ” of Sydney Public School children
(one open-air on the Cricket Ground and two
concert affairs in the Town Hall), no public state-
ment has been published of the receipts and
expenditure. Those concerned ought, in their
own interests, to satisfy outside critics. Even the
Quong Tart testimonial people entered into the
sordid details of debit and credit.
• * * •
In Victoria the vaccination law is rapidly
becoming a dead letter. It is being evaded whole-
sale by parents
moving from one
suburb to another
after the registra-
tion of their chil-
dren, and by care-
lessness on the part
of the police. An-
other thing that is
helping on the day
when the Act will
fall into utter dis-
use is the action of
the various Minis-
ters administering
it in remitting fines
imposed by the
magistrates when
cases come before
the courts. The
maximum penalty
for neglecting to
vaccinate is £2,
and whenever a
Bench is found
with sense enough
to inflict the maxi-
mum the Solicitor-
General usually re-
mits thefine. Two
Hawthorn magistrates have had the courage
to protest in a mild way against this practice.
They were requested by the Solicitor-General
to remit a fine, and, as they declined to do
so, it was afterwards remitted by an Order-in-
Council, without the magistrates concerned being
consulted in any way.
The kindness of N.S.W. Public Service
Commissioner Cornelius Delohery in resigning his
commissionership—having years to run—in
order to be re-appointed for seven years, and thus
allow the terms of members of the Board to jog
simultaneously, sets one thinking. In ’96 a civil
servant, 37 years old —with a delicate wife and
large family—was dismissed, but was soon re-
appointed to the temporary staff, and the Board
promised him every consideration. They con-
sidered everything until 1902, when they decided
that, as he was over Jfi years of age, under regula-
tion 6874, he could not be re-appointed to the
Service. In Mr. Delohery’s case (he is 60), rule
6874 evidently doesn’t apply.
* * * •
The practical wiping-out of the Sydney
R.A.A. Band is a pity, though perhaps impera-
tive in the proposed scheme of military retrench-
ment. The Federal Govt, is emphatically right
in saying that it’s not its business to maintain a
band in Sydney. In England the famous military
bands are kept up by donations from the regi-
mental officers. Here it is impossible to expect
that from the officers, most of them poor
men. The loss of the band is already eagerly
seized on as “a tangible result of Federation.”
All that Sydney got out of the upkeep of the
R.A.A. was the bi-weekly band performances in
the Gardens. Why does not the municipality
take steps to provide music ?
* • * *
A 13-year-old boy named Clark, of Moo-
rook, on the lower Murray, is already credited
with the rescue of five drowning people.
“EVEN AT THAT SUPREME MOMENT."
THE HANGMAN : “ Good morning. I have noose for you."
CONDEMNED MURDERER: “ What a choker you are! You’ll
he the death of me yet. Work me off easy, won’t you?”
T.H.: “ I’ll do it as scaffold’s I can. Do you tumble?"
C.M.: “No, I drop.”
(Which he did with a “sickening thud.”)
An old story repeats itself again— in
Sydney this time. The premises were being
closed for the afternoon when—so the man in charge
says—two masked individuals broke in on him,
took all the cash, and left him tied up. He didn’t
manage to attract the attention of the police so
that they might burst in and find him securely
tied up, but he struggled till he got loose, and
then came to the door with a piece of rope hang-
ing from his wrist, and told the officers that the
cash was gone. The police thought over the
matter for a little while, and then ran him in on
a charge of stealing the money and tying himself
up to a sofa, and for the present the case rests
there. The case of the person who is tied up
almost always goes like thar. Probably the chief
reason for police scepticism is that the burglar
very rarely ties anybody up when a crowbar on
the head can keep him quiet with so much less
trouble.
• • • •
The remark of an M.L.A., who is also a
J.P., during one of the last
all-night sittingsof N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly, to the effect
that he would, in virtue of
his J.P.-ship, order an
aggravating interrupter
into custody, recalls an old
Parliamentary incident.
When the late Chief
Justice Martin was N.S.W.
Attorney-General, a couple
of members misconducted
themselves during debate,
and Martin was appealed
to, by virtue of his being
the chief magistrate of the
State, to hand one of them
over to the police. Martin
stated, however, that within
the Assembly no magis-
trate, high or low, possessed
any magisterial authority;
the authority lapsed when
he crossed the threshold.
Which raises another point.
Two or three times lately,
to the knowledge of present
writer, members of Assem-
bly who are J’s.P. have,
while in their seats, signed
documents in their magisterial capacity. How
does Martin’s dictum apply there ?
* * • *
The Melbourne police, abetted by Mr.
Panton, P.M., have a curiously ineffective way of
“ eradicating ” the disorderly-house evil. T’other
day a lady of the usual type, with five of her
brazen “charges,” was prosecuted for running a
disorderly place in Little Lonsdale-st., and was
given a month “to remove to some other locality.”
And in ordering those unblushing persons to
leave their recognised haunt of vice and settle
down elsewhere, Mr. Panton uttered a paradoxi-
cal regret that Melb. did not follow the lead of
other countries and “provide places for such
women as defendants.” But hasn’t Melbourne
provided Little Lonsdale-st. ? Why shift them
from there to, perhaps, some suburban back stree t
where their opportunities for temptation are
much greater ?
“ F.C.” writes :
The Moreland (Vic.) Workmen’s
Homes Settlement about which much
was said when, awhile back, the Irvin*
Govt, cast about for such desin b e
allotments, are a strenuous lesson on
the folly of past Governments and
the lying hypocrisy of present ones.
About 50 weatherboard cottages aie
planted about the land, each on its 1£
to 3 acres, two miles from Brunswick,
the same from Essendon, right in tie
valley formed by the Mconee Pends
Creek. The place looks bare, gaunt
and depressing to-day, but in thiee
years’ time it will be a garden of Eden,
for the blocks are |on (at least 6ft. of
rich soil. (That much can be seen,
there may be 600 ft. for all writ<r
knows to the contrary.) The land
itself is all right; the trouble is the
locality. There is no railway nearer
than two miles, no shop nearer than
one, and most of Ihe men spend two
to three hours a day going to and
from their work. There is a demand
for thousands of such homes—cottages
with a couple of acres attached— n
Melbourne to-day, and Govt, says is
can’t get the land because the banks
which hold it want their loom time
prices. Between this settlement and
Brunswick and Coburg there are a
good six sq. miles of land either lying
idle, carrying a few cows, or growing
crop (mostly oats for chaff'. Wri er
saw one paddock of 100 acres— the roat •
cuttings and drains through which
showed 6ft. of rich black soil—un-
fenced, lying absolutely idle save for
strays cattle. It “belonged to a bank. ’
The same state of shittln ss vv: ste oh*
tains westward and southward right to
Williamstown ; east and north east,
through Northcote, Preston, Kew, and
Glen Iris ; and when a workman wan ti
a home he must either content him-
selfwith a pocket-handkerchief plot in
Richmond or Northcote, or he must go
right beyond the suburban radius to
get it. Also the market-garder.ers and
fruit-growers, who might be within
easy distance of the markets, are now
being forced right down to Carrum and
Somerville, or away out to Croydon,
Warrandyte, and Eltham—because the
intermediate vacant land “ belongs to
banks.” Given speedy electrical trac-
tion, and a land-tax that would force
the landholder to use his land to the
best advantage, and inestimable bene,
fit would rt ■dt to the health >nd
pocket of a great aimy of workers
and another noble squad of producers !
• • *
“ The Curse ” :
She had “ sinned ” and was received
at the Benevolent Asylum.
She had come in only the day before,
and it had that she was
in some way strangely superior to the
general ruck, albeit her dress was not
less ragged.
Her case had been serious, necessitating an anaesthetic.
i° V 'u s he regained consciousness. A lip quivered, then
a limb moved and she stirred about as if in deep unrest.
At last her eyes opened, and with a face and voice full of
pent-up anxiety, “ Dead ? ” she asked. “No 1 No 1 ” said
the doctor with a professional smile.
And then, realising what it all meant, “ My God l” she
said.
• * * •
Whilst Australia is still young, somebody
should raise the question of rechristening any in>
portant city that has taken its name from a town
in the old world. Perth is one particular case in
point. Why does the capital of Westralia con-
tinue to carry a borrowed title? There should be
a determined stand against all traces of Cockney-
lsm, Irishism, [Scotchism in Australian geo-
graphical names. At present, the tendency is
the other way ; for instances —the miserable pro-
posal to change Lady Robinson’s Beach to
“ Brighton Le Sands, ” and the completed trans-
formation of Blandville on the Parramatta River
to “ Putney.” Blandville commemorated a brave
white man, who did good work in Australia;
Putney simply records a vulgar Cookney memory.
A COMMON TYPE.
LADY HOSTESS (of the Salon): "Mr. Gulper's
one of those dreadful men who know enough
to correct one's mistakes in classic quotation,
and so on, but don’t know enough NOT to do it."
A woman at Perth (W.A.) races recently
gave birth to a baby :
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—•
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-streeb
or King street, Sydney.*
Thus the very newest woman
Makes the very fastest pace
By contributing a starter
To a very human race.


Dress fAßßies
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
TRADEM a R kTHE varnished board
A
SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stopping’s Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxford-st. Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable
Recommended by “ Lancet ”
* J■ McBRATNEY (Wholesale only)
389 George-st.. Sydney.
Melb. Trades Hall Council and the morn-
ing press have fallen foul of one another, and
hardly a week passes but some indignant Trades
Hallite tables a motion for the exclusion of
reporters from the council meetings. When a
division on the subject was taken on 9th inst. the
proposal to adopt Star Chamber methods was
lost by but four votes. The Argus came
in for much abuse, but the biggest whoops were
against the Age, one vociferous speaker declaring
that the presence of an Age reporter “tainted”
the very building. A section of the Trades Hall
Council has for a year been drawing up schemes
for the publication of a new “ people’s paper,” but
the project is still in the talking stage. A more
businesslike showing is being made by the pro-
moters of an evening paper to run against Melb.
Herald. The venture has advanced so far that a
representative is being sent to England to nego-
tiate respecting cable arrangements. A long run
of prosperity through monopoly of the field has
made the ’Erald very fat and wheezy. And how
greasilj 7 “loyal” and entetically Australian-
Native-ish the Herald is !
The Lacte Remedies— What they are. How
to use them, and speedily obtain a beautiful
plumpness of face, neck and arms, and a perfect
bust. Write for H. Westall Guest’s new pamph-
let, post free, 229 Bourke-st., Melb.*
*
gear’s
<*
DRINK ONLY
CHARLES
V heidsieck
isr In tie Matter of Drew attention to Detail Indicate. Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS TTt.T
KLEINERT’S HOOkON
IS THE ONLY^vT~~TTT
Correct Hose Supporter
Sold only at the Best Shops. T ° Wear w *th the NEW FORM CORSET.
A WOMAN’S LETTER,
Mf Dear ARim-*
Sydney, January 30, 1008.
S'or the last dozen years one oould hardly pick
?P a woman’s paper or turn to a woman’s column
ln & man’s paper without reading something
on the text of * * there being no middle-aged
women nowadays.” The phrase is a false coin
with a good currency. That brilliant American
writer, _ Geraldine Bonnor, writing about New
York, is struck by the fact that the mother and
her grown daughters look of the same age, and
dress, in equally youthful fashion; in fact, that
there are now no women who look the years
between 30 and 60. Women are young or really
old. _ Much the same is written in England of
English women, and, as far as I can learn, no one
has yet asked —with a Lauri grin—“ Wot are ye
givin’ us ? ”
A section of rich and fashionable women is,
apparently, keeping middle-age out on the door-
mat ; but so did a section of women in all ages—
even before poor Jezebel, who was really a woman
of taste and refinement, painted her face and
tired her head—the Book of Kings calls it
“tired,” anyhow. To-day the section is a much
larger one—but, all the same, only a rich one.
You must have money and leisure in order that
you may work hard at keeping young, and then
perhaps you may not succeed. Lillian Russell’s
recital to the reporters of how she contrives to
look 25 instead of proves that she makes it
her whole life’s work. Eight hours’ sleep at night
and little sleeps during the day, punching-ball
exercise, walking, driving, dieting, massaging,
baths—two or more of different kinds daily. Her
day is mapped out; it would stand a
mathematical test for regularity. She swims
and punches, and eats and sleeps, and receives
“cheerful company,” and reads at appointed
hours, and, after all, one wonders doesn’t she,
despite it all, need a complexion-veil ? And are
all her teeth and all her bronze head her really
own—save by right of purchase ?
There is too much “generalise” in the state-
ment that there are no longer middle-aged women.
It reminds one of the fashion-plates. From the
first to the last of these only women of 9st. weight,
and not under sft. 6in., with sloping shoulders
and curved waists, are worthy of attention.
Take our own little Sydney society. Doesn’t
the woman of 40 look every year of her fatal age ?
Isn’t she a bit heavy in the feet ? Isn’t her neck
chick and, like her elbows, thrown out of plumb
by repressive corseting ? Isn’t her complexion
broken ? Of course, sometimes she is scraggy, face
and brisket, but more often she is fleshy. But in
any case, with rare exceptions, 40 looks 40 ; when
it doesn’t (as in the case of the struggling pro-
fessional man’s wife, with several children and
one servant, or the State-school teacher, or hack
musician) look 50.
Among the “ rare exceptions ” Sydney society
has a Smart Widow. Melbourne also has a smart
(titled) widow. Both the ladies, though grand-
mothers, have girlish figures and dress as youthfully
as their younger daughters. And the two cities
are so proud of their respective widows (although
they speak of them as if they were as old as trie
novelist’s “She”). The attention they attract
proves the rarity of the species. I-doubt if the
proportion of middle-aged women who “look
under 30 ” is larger, hundred for hundred, in
London or New York than it is in Australasia.
No one now advertises her middle-age or oldness
by her dress.
Lately a little more than middle-aged friend of
mine, who dresses spring-lamb fashion, showed me
a portrait, asking me if I guessed the identity and
age of original. At once I replied, “Your mother
at 40.” “Myself,” she replied, “at the age of 16.
My mother and father died when I was that age,
and I put on mother’s best bonnet, skirt, mantle,
and black kids, and went out, applied for a situa-
tion as governess—and got it. But it is awful to
know that my pupils of those days tell my later
friends that lam a ‘ Perfect marvel! quite 75 if
a day.’”
I have joined Mr. Blank’s Sandow class for
women. Went to my first lesson the other
morning, and, in the dressing-room, where I put
on my gymnastic attire, met a 16-stone woman of
about 50 in her Sandow dress—wool “com-
binations” (real good ones, you know, an 18s.
pair) and a short flannel petticoat! “Good
heavens!” I said, “you are not going to let the
man see you like that?” “Why not?” she asked
coolly; “I have been 25 years married.” “But
not to the instructor,” I retorted. But she wasn’t
crushed, not even visibly a little fluttered, and
went out to the machine with absolutely spherical
complacency.
The approaches to Sydney Cricket Ground are
a disgrace. In dry weather one steps out of the
tram to sink ankle-deep in thick dust. Towards
the centre of the road that must be crossed to
enter the ground the dust gets deeper, and there
are holes where one can almost sink ankle-deep.
In wet weather, the path is a sea of mud and
slush. At Saturday’s cycling carnival beautiful
dresses and underskirts were absolutely ruined,
and there was no escape, as ordinary women pre-
ferred to spoil their clothes rather than lift their
draperies above the knee in the face of a gaping,
howling crowd of hoodlums selling programmes,
papers, and penny-dreadfuls, and the other hood-
lums who always hang on to professional cycling.
At the send-off cricket match at Sydney to
Captain Wallington, a lady flatterer, speaking to
the guest.of honor, trusted “that we should some
day see him back as Governor, and, in that case,
see him married.” The new groom shook his
head sadly. “ That last clause puts me out of it,”
he said. “ Several times was I about to put my
fate to the test, and into the eyes of all the ladies
—yes, they were different ladies—came a look
which I translated as “Better not, Wally.”
To be a “female servant under the Common-
monwealth” ought to become a very popular
billet. When she has been eight years in the
service and intends to get married, she may retire
on two months’ leave at full pay, which is
something towards the furniture. Last week one
•f her called on See. M'Lachlan and announced
that she wished to take advantage of this regula-
tion. His congratulations were so cordial that
she confided te him that there were five or six
more about to make the same request. The twe
months’ pay cannot be all the inducement. Any-
how, the news ought to please Mr. Coghlan.
A private letter, received by a Sydnev-sider
now m India, reports the engagement of Miss
Eadith Walker to Mr. George Sellars, a big
English land-holder. Same alleged authority
says Miss Walker’s tent for the Durbar was
next in sumptuousness to that of the Viceroy.
Florence Schmidt and the rising young English
sculptor, Derwent Wood, are to be married in
March, and Louise Mack (Mrs. Creed) will give
away the bride.
Last week, pilgrims to Yarrangobilly Caves
slept at Kiandra under five blankets. Also they
ate of the daintiest and cleanest at a restaurant
kept by an Assyrian, married to a half-caste
Chinese woman. Pilgrims report that the Tumut
streams are full of trout, progeny of the imported
fish. One weighing was caught, but the
average weight is, say, 31b. Showing the possibili-
ties of our great country: somewhat south of
where the cave-seekers oamped, and across the
Victorian border, 9000 sheep were lost in a night—
frozen to death in the snow ; and at the time it
was 100 and something in the shade almost every-
where in N.S.W.
The. churches are under such obligations to
gambling that in time they may canonise a book-
maker and erect a picture-window to a racehorse.
A while ago there was an R.C. bazaar at Cool-
gardie, and, although the place is supposed to be
as dull as cold tea, a profit of about £3OOO was
cleared, mainly owing to “ the sporting tendencies
of our goldfields’ population.”
The death of the wife of a certain Northern
personage revives the yarn that her husband, on
becoming engaged to her, settled any possible
claims from another girl by meeting the latter at
a tea-table in a tea-room, and casually pushing
before her a paper with the remark, in a jocular
tone, “You are not game to sign that!” The
paper read : “I hereby resign all claim on
Sammy Bear.” The girl said, “Aren’t I?” and
signed. Next day, the wily Sammy announced
his new engagement.
Women, having got her vote in N.S.W., is
settling down to be a man. One of her was com-
mitted for trial last week, charged with obtaining
money by forging cheques, a most uncommon
offence to be charged against a woman. Woman
has caution larger than man and as 99 per cent, of
forgers are caught there is wisdom in trying an
easier walk in crime. Besides she has not the
patience to sit at a window tracing man’s signature
on oiled paper; it is generally easier and surer
to make the man sign the cheque himself.
Sydney is running to see “The Fortune Teller”
at the Royal, and the police are running the
Sydney fortune-tellers into the dock. Several of
our palmist friends who warned us “to beware of
a tall woman with fair ’air, named Hannie, becos
she was comm’ between us and the dark gent,”
are now behind the spikes. The trade of omnisci-
ence must pay. One of the “run-in” ladies
cannot read or write and used to be a laundress,
and her husband was an honest laboring man and
they were very poor. But on a day the laundress
discovered that she was Omniscient, so she set up
as a teller of the past, present and future at Is.
and 3s. the prophesy, and her husband acted as
treasurer and secretary. A pleasant home and
prosperity followed and the children practised on
a Stein way grand.
There’s a corporation-tip in Hobart which is
bounded on one side by the slaughter-yard and on
another by Government House. Follow your
nose and you’re sure to find it. Lady Havelock
says that when the wind blows from a certain
quarter she can’t eat anything, and that complaint
may induce Hobart to reform the noisome institu-
tion. A nuisance is rarely abated in Hobart
until it has killed a bishop or threatened a
Governor’s life.
Nothing is booming in Sydney just now but
burglary. The other night £260 worth of boots
were stolen from a factory, and almost every day
houses, fowls, and clothes-lines suffer. The “dog
editor” of S.M. Herald wisely recommends us
to provide ourselves with an Australian or Scotch
terrier—yappy, noisy, little bow-wows which will
fight whilst running. No fear of one of them
offering the burglar the paw of good dogship and
conducting him round to the unlocked kitchen-
door, as a calf-sized dog of my acquaintance once
did.
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Williamson got hundreds
of telegrams and letters of congratulation on the
birth of a daughter last Friday.
Some prices at Coolgardie, W. A.Washer-
women, 10s. per day ; generals and nursemaids,
30s. per week; rump-steak, Is. 3d. per lb.;
potatoes, 4d. per lb.; eggs, 4s. per doz.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“E. W. Owe’Sullivan brought Mr. Larry Foley
in tow through this city, and exhibited him as if he
were a prize torpedo or one of the voices Melba
had tried. Mr. Owe’Sullivan passes the word
along at the back of his hand that he intends Mr.
Foley for Parliament, and Mr. Foley seems to
have loquacity enough and self-confidence enough
for the job. He was roped in for the Lyne junket
in the West, E.W.O’S. standing sponsor for him.
“The midnight mixed dip is the giddy divi-
sion of the sojourners at a certain seaside resort.
Propriety, in the shape of the duennas of the
place, shadows the beach all day, and forbids the
mixed gambols. It is only close on midnight,
when they retire to put their limp fringes into curl-
papers, that the frisky element ventures to enjoy
its little splash. Then the fun is fast and furious.
Watchers are set in case of unexpected disturb-
ance. This craze for the mixed dip is like the
passion for the sly cigarette. The Eve in woman
is rampant. What is forbidden is desirable. If
there were a veto put upon any hackneyed task,
like piano-practice, she would assiduously culti-
vate it, and if the pursuit of pleasure were
insisted upon, she would drop it. The pedicurist
has nob yet established great beauty at the base
of the female human figure. Then why does the
vain sex delight in giving surreptitious views of
her toes ? The girl-bather is not a eaptiv&ting
study. F&ot is, she is absolutely at her ugliest in
a bathing-suit. But the men don’t tell her so.
“There is talk of another singing star, Miss
Maggie Farrell, of Stawell. The countryside pro-
claimed her voice great, and, Melba confirming the
opinion, there is to be the usual benefit. Several
country towns are prepared to hang out the
Farrell banners on their upmost walls, already
counting on the good that shall accrue to them for
setting another Australian Star on its course
through the European firmament.
“The finest and most gorgeous article in the
up-to-date bridal trousseau is the sleeping-gown,
which is more elaborate than a reception rig-out
and as well-fitting as a tailor-built costume. One
this scribe gazed at just before it was packed off
to the purchaser was a shimmering mass of soft
silk, real lace, and outlying plots of ribbon clus-
ters. • It was a poetical creation extending well
over two feet, and flowing out in florid lines. The
lady of the underwear department condescended
to remark that the firm prided itself more on the
cut than anything. ‘lt fits like a glove,’ she said.
“ One of our Melbourne art critics, prone to be
didactic in all branches of lore, is a poetic maker
of salads. He runs over the whole gamut of the
emotions in these triumphs of salad mosaics. For
fair friends there is a salad in the Chopin Sonata
manner ; for the purely poetic, one in the Men-
delssohn Song manner; for the lusty gormand,
one after the style of a Handel Oratorio ; for the
brethren of art, a delicate, succulent dish in the
style of a Rubenstein Melody.
“ A charming little canvas that greatly capti-
vates the sense feminine in that British collection
now in Melbourne is ‘An Afternoon Call,’ by
Douglas Almond, the elegant but precise
Academician. The caller is a pretty gentleman
of the doublet-and-hose period, who snatches, by
a turn and twist of the neck, a last look at his
ruffles from the mirror behind his chair. As he
is in the very act of adjusting his cravat
and getting into trim, the curtain has been
drawn aside, and a high-waisted young person,
with an arch expression, stands and beholds my
Lord Vanity. The subject is charmingly ren-
dered.
“ The Guv’nor Clarkes have a Sunday-party
habit.. On that one day of the week onty does duty
take itself off patrol and permit vice-regality
to be quite friendly and domestic. Music is
divine and meet on the Sabbath. So Government
House asks its private friends to a little quiet
music on Sundays.
“The death of Senator Sargood means a severe
loss to Melb. musicians. There was more social
life at theSargoods’big Elsternwick residence in a
fortnight than in most other Melb. mansions in a
year, and singers and instrumentalists were always
well paid for their services (and otherwise well
treated). One of the dead Flinders Lane magnate’s
hobbies was a private choral society to keep his
pipe-organ company, with salaried principals and
conductor. Most of his fellows content them-
selves with a pianola and a couple of dirge-like
coon songs by the daughter of the house.
“ The flirtation fever, contracted whilst
rambling the ocean liners’ hurricane decks, has
been treated in a variety of ways by eminent
authorities. A oaptain, at present in port, relates
how he put a stop to the evil. At 10 o’clock of
starless evenings all were asked to quit the hurri-
cane deck; those who remained after that time
had their names recorded by two outposts.
Passengers were indignant but helpless. They
had to hide their ardor in the busy traffic of the
ordinary decks or descend to the madding crowd
in the saloon.
“For a long time we have been exercised down
here as to the fashion of the thatch. Some still
add a cubit to their stature by sticking in a top
crown coil. Others put their faith in a figure 8
twist on the down slope of the neck, with tortoise-
shell skewers on the port and starboard sides.
The latest harbinger of the big world fashions
hangs her massed tresses in a pendant bun-coop
over the collar.
“ The latest tempter on the path of the up-to-
date woman is a sleek Indian hawker who sells
tapes, hairpins, powders and advice on certain
medical matters. He speaks pure English and
trims his indelicate address with gleaming smiles.
When danger threatens he falls back to an inno-
cent sing-song of ‘ tapes, pins, needles, soaps and
brushes.’
A spinster, who was enabled by an accumu-
lation of dignity and decorum to play the part of
duenna to youthful and skittish Sassiety trippers
has just carried off a big prize in the engagement
lottery. The girls she leaves behind on the
matrimonial quest are dumb with amazement
Kittens can never understand how an eligible can
pass their bright, silky coats and gentle purrs, to
dwell in the solemn gaze and wise look of the
older cat.
“The last batch of trippers for the Hobart
regatta and race season left last week. This final
exodus leaves a yawning chasm in local smart
circles The only thing for the stay-at-homes to
do and to remain fashionable, is to get appen-
dicitis. To be out of the pendulum swing of
things is to be exposed to the reproach of empty
pockets, and that spells ruin to the Sassiety
straggler. J
lnfco th , e J? lue . of a woman-swimmer
with a, Sydney reputation is now talked of down
the Victorian coast-line. Loudest in her praise is
Jf 6116 ™ 1 - the fier y Mttle pianiste, who
is the mother of the sea-nymph in question. The
usual she-diver is slender. Miss Annette Keller
man, however, is sohdlv plump and reposefuL
Her poise on the springboard is a startler. Tk®
limbs are powerful, but not altogether lacking in
grace. Presently Miss Annette tries for the
Yankee championship. There is mueh strength
of character in her dark face. *
“ The cry of the plucked ones (at the matricula-
tion) is heard in the land. There is reason in
some of the complaints. For instance the
geography papers at last exam, asked for certain
information that could only be acquired from the
recent daily papers. Now the majority of well-
regulated families and boarding-schools forbid the
reading of these by young persons of the female
persuasion, so how were they to find out the state
of the Mallee, or data as to the recent eruntirma
in the volcanic Indies ? P ns
“Romance springs up in the most unlikely
places. The latest tale concerns a she-elerk and a
he-clerk in the Government service. In all cases
of dispute, of alleged oppression or injustice, this
petticoated person was the chosen spokeswoman
The other day, when a tangled point was raised by
a Commonwealth Act, of classification, or some-
thing or other, Portia was deputed to take a holi-
day and go to Sydney to consult with an oracle of
the service there. The oracle was male. Portia’s
eyes proved more persuasive than her argument •
and she has returned to resign her post and uphold'
the oracle in matrimony. This threatens to be a
great matrimonial year for women-workers.
“ Farewellers seeing a very fashionable party
off by a Maoriland boat, last week, noted a
female passenger who made a scorching figure
stretched out at ease on a deck-chair. She hailed
from the Holy City, and was as a flaming sword
to the sight, caparisoned in scarlet linen, not to
mention scarlet silk stockings, open-work to the
knee.
“Mrs. Andrew Rowan is at present plying
palette and brush in S’Africa. She has just sent
some samples of her color art to her two brothers
as effective as flower-painting can be.
“Improvers of stiff muslin (not wire) are in
again, and flat backs are as a crime in the eyes of
the dress-builders. The rounded outline below
the belt must be attained at any cost. Amateur
attempts to manufacture these are futile. There is
something indecent in the inartistic. The woman
who puts her curves on clumsily offends the eye
as much as a naughty French print—which some-
times doesn’t offend the. eye if nobody else is
looking.
“A prominent sportsman, just retmned from
the cold country, is determined to urge the racing
clubs to curtail the privileges portioned out to
visitors in our big racing season. English tourists
swarm upon Melbourne at Carnival time, and
come in for all the bounty of the two leading
clubs. No such courtesy is thrust upon the Aus-
tralian ‘ sport ’ in the Big Smoke, and he thinks
we ought to protest in the most effective manner
possible against this lack of reciprocity. Australia
must, indeed, be waking up when any ‘sport’
so prominent as the present objector even begins
to think of ceasing to grovel to the haughty
Reginald and Percy from—hats off ! —Hingland.
“ An interesting marriage is booked for to-day
(22nd) at Geelong, when one of the local belles and
f offers, Miss Calvert, gives her hand to the
'oorak Scotchbyterian parson, Rev. D. M‘Crae.
The bride is a cousin of Mrs. Gordon Lyon.
“Mrs. Everard Browne kept her part of the
circle at the ‘ Country Mouse ’ on Saturday night
bright with the family diamonds. In her party
were the Misses Landale, whose turnouts showed
the effect of a ramble abroad. Lots of hair seems
the rage. Others I noticed were returned coro-
nator Mrs Branson, and the wealthy widow, Mrs.
Nicholas (who has just voyaged back from
America, and from settling her boys at college)
with her young and lovely sister.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


That Weary Backache!
That back will never stop aching till you set your kidneys right with Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People.
You don’t know how ill you are ! Look in the glass ! —Your tongue is coated—
your eyes are dark-rimmed—your skin is dry and pasty !
You’re always weary—you’re never hungry—you’re often peevish—you always
have that deadly dragging pain in the back !
All that means kidney disease—and kidney disease means a horrible poisoned death.
But there’s hope, healing and health for you in the great blood remedy—Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. Read this :
SYDNEY CURE. —“ For eight years I suffered from kidney troubles,” says Mr. T. Capper,
147 Glenmore-road, Paddington. “My back was always aching. Sometimes the sharp, stinging
pains Game in the small of it. Fainting fits often resulted, and afterwards I would be perfectly
paralysed, and too weak t® walk. I bad no appetite, and was always tired and despondent. My
skin was sallow, my head ached terribly, and I was very thin. Even hospital treatment failed to
cure me. Then I tried Dr. Williams' Pink Pills. One box lessened the dull, heavy, dragging
pains ; two boxes made me sleep better ; seven boxes took away every aching agony, and made
me bright and active.”
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place. Sydney. Price, 2/9 per box ; six boxes 15/3.
£ See that the name “ Dk. Williams ” is on every Box you buy.
..
%
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Veteran Edward Braddon, the Tasmanian
Federalist, is reported to be seriously ill.
Shirley Baker still struggles to be Pope of
Tonga. His church is big, but his congregation
is small.
George Lambert, The Bulletin hears, is
settling in London; he ambitions devoting himself
to portrait-painting.
Ex-Premier George Thorn, defeated at
Fassifern (Q.) election by Jenkinson, is now in
his 65th year. He was born and educated in
Sydney, and wears a B. A. won in the early days.
The subaltern Acting-Governor of New
Guinea, F. P. Winter, plods through tropic life
under the burden of knighthood, while his superior
officer, Gov. Le Hunte, enjoys himself as plain
Mister.
Vic. Mines-Minister Cameron, who was
elected to the Leg. Assembly in ’74, is the member
who has held his seat for the longest continuous
period, but Duncan Gillies, elected in ’59, is the
father of the House.
The late Senator Sargood, in his will, con-
fided his estate to the management of the Trustees,
Executors and Agency Co. of Melbourne. Rarely
now do you find the man of the world making an
individual his executor.
Rev. Dill Macky, Sydney’s sectarian
squabbler, is proud of the fact that he is a direct
descendant of one Colonel Macky, who, during
the famous siege of Londonderry, took’ a very
prominent part in the defence of the town.
A widely-advertised Maoriland legislator
has now the honor of having two prohibition-
orders in his family. Publicans are warned not
to supply liquor either to him or his son, and they
mustn’t be found on anybody’s licensed premises.
Quite a flourishing crop in N.S.W. just
now is that of heirs to millions of pounds—it’s
always millions. Two such cases have been
reported within a month in N.S.W., and the
alleged fortunes are in Spain—that is to say, in
English Chancery.
Veteran John Dennistoun Wood, now
announced as a candidate for a Tasmanian con-
stituency, has had a remarkably long public career.
Born at Dennistoun (Tas.) in 1829 he was called
to the English Bar in 1852 and entered Vic.
Assembly in 1856. Was Solicitor-General,'
Attorney-General and Minister for Justice in
turn ; went back to the English Bar for a while
and then returned to his native town.
The See Govt, lately re-appointed the two
N.S.W. Public Service Commissioners, Messrs.
Barling and Wilson, whose term
had expired, for another seven
years. The decision to retain
the former was carefully de-
ferred until the recess, as had
Parliament been sitting there
would have been a fight over the
matter. This action of the Govt
will help to alienate some of the
Public Service support, as Mr.
Barling is not a popular Com-
missioner, and his retirement
was confidently hoped for. One
argument against him is his
age. He is in his 64th year
now, and will be over 70 when
his term is up. He is not,
therefore, considered of a
proper age to determine ap-
ical* under the 65-years retire-
ment clause, always a vexed
question. *
Federal Treasurer Turner
has again made the annual an-
nouncement of his intention to
retire from politics, at a date
to be ultimately fixed. It is
one of plain George’s amiable
weaknesses to be periodically
on the point of seceding
“ owing to pressure of pri-
vate affairs,” and the pub-
lic smiles as indulgently
at it as at his astonish-
ing craze for wearing
swimming-medals and St.
Kilda Trades’ Society
badges on the smallest
provocation. The rumor
that the man in the shabby
brown suit has removed the modest little brass
plate from its well-worn groove in the front gate
of his residence is inaccurate. It fell off dejectedly
on a day when Vic. Treasurer Shiels passed by
teaching a fresh young Budget epigram to feed
out of his hand.
Adam Black, who, coming from Maori -
land, called the claim he pegged on Gympie the
“New Zealand,” died lately. He and his mates
took out about £lOO,OOO worth of gold before they
Ist it go. With his own share he suckled numerous
wild-cats, and died poor, except in friends.
Apropos the move to have Premier Seddon
appointed Governor of Maoriland, Wairaeapa
Daily Times
The usual career of a clever, self-made man of Mr.
Seddon’s type is to commence as a democrat, to get on as
a plutocrat—and, finally, to bloom as an aristocrat. Mr.
Seddon is now in the second stage of his career.
Louise Mack (“Gouli Gouli ” of The
Bulletin) is now—tell it not in Gath : —on the
staff of London Review of Reviews. Apropos,
this paper hopes yet to see L.M. aforesaid make a
book out of her early experiences in a Wesleyan
parsonage, of which Bulletin readers have already
had more than one entertaining glimpse.
Melba’s affability sometimes puts her in
difficulties. At Ipswich (Q.) railway station an
old chap, encouraged by the diva’s graciousness,
proceeded in this wise : “I like you ’cause you’re
good to your old dad, you know. Have a drop
to drink now —say a lemonade. Well, good-bye,
darling ! ” (Huge merriment in the crowd).
Ex-Lands Minister Copley (S.A) last
season had 1000 acres under wheat near Orroroo,
on the Northern plains. No rain fell there, and
be did not reap enough grain to feed his half-
dozen pet parrots. His stock also had to be
removed, because there Was nothing for them to
eat in the district. Copley is a hard-working
and intelligent farmer with long agricultural
Experience.
The promoters of the Adelaide tramway
grab asked Kingston, as lawyer, to draft their
Bill, and put it to him that it was a professional
job. The inflexible democrat ended that inter-
view with : “It might be best for my pocket, but
what of my honor?” One previous grab
interview, which wasn’t conducted so delicately,
he ended with his boot.
1 • J ack ” Virgo, who succeeds David Walker
AdeS ° f S / dney Y M G -A., comes from
hillofm h ®, re - for yearB he held a similar
1D - a merc hant’s office, a skilled
s™? W a u a ' r u nger and elocutionist, a breezy
( da f hl . n f batsman, and passable all-round
ri fond Adelaide mothers held him up to
Christianity?’’ 18 “ & pattern ° f “ muBcular
John Darling, M.P., leader of S.A. Oppo-
Jan°V?° m & ?teS i? ia . 51st year to-day (Saturday,
t-v ' • Jy ls 18 a sister of overseer Jane
Zion City and a first cousin of “Elijah”
of y 6r hosband) the founder and high priest
ot the Ziomtes who has quite a large number of
relations in Adelaide, where he first began work
as a soul-saver in a very humble way.
Colonel Norton, whose death in England
was grandson of the solicitor Norton
who started the business at the corner of King-st.
that still flourishes in Sydney. His father, the
M.lj.C was Postmaster-General for a time, but
never threw much of his time into politics. He
was born m Driver’s pub., at the corner of Eliza-
beth and Kmg-sts., a site now occupied by Temple
Court. The colonel figured well in the army,
though without muoh hard fighting. He was 47
years old at time of death.
The first wife of old James Milson,
who died at Sydney last week, was granddaughter
aj a m t es Crimes, second Surveyor-General of
° canae to Australia in the Gorgon,
ct., lyyi, with the appointment of Surveyor of
t" 3,1 • ma gnificent salary of ss. per day !
Mr. Milson did not own the point named after his
rather, the Milson grant being higher up the road,
but Mason the First, who was something about
<jovt. House in Brisbane’s time, lived close to the
point, where he had established a small dairy.
J. Gregory Plumb, a very old Freemason
who lately died, was for years court-keeper at
Sydney Supreme Court. He used to tell how,
once having been ordered a change, he went to
Potts Point to ask leave of Chief Justice Martin.
How long ?’’ “A fortnight.” “ Better take a
month, Plumb—you are not looking well,” said
the bluff C.J. Plumb went to the Blue Moun-
tains, but in a fortnight was recalled by the
sheriff to help drape the court-room, in con-
sequence of the Chief Justice’s death.
Lately passed on—Emma Constance Stone,
Hobart native, first lady medico to practise regu-
larly in Melbourne. Toronto M.D., with London
and Philadelphia trimmings. Fought her way
through the venomous and conservative preju-
dices of society hoodlums calmly and success-
fully. Clever musician and painter. Married
Egryn Jones, medico and preacher. Father
(organ builder) and mother probably the most
picturesque old couple around Melbourne. Two
sisters and a female cousin wear medical brass
plates on their suburban front gatas.
HIS SORROW.
THE FAT ONE: “Hullo, Brown, what’s wrong?
You look all broke up.”
BROWN (brokenly): “ Yes; just lost my poor dear
old pal Jones.”
T.F.O.: “Go on; not dead, I hope?”
B.: “ Well, not exactly; he's run away with my
wife.”
The dull, parvenu Brassey
family seems to be quite
snuffed out of public life
in Britain. Old-Man-of-
the-Sea Brassey, the notor-
ious faller-off, informed a
Birkenhead meeting, the
other week, that he was
retiring from politics— i.e.,
into obscurity for good
and all. They would
never again hear him
stammer commonplaces
from the platform, he
gave them to understand.
Whereat the meeting
cheered the dreary baron
with heartfelt enthusiasm.
A week or two earlier Tom
Brassey, junior, was beaten
by the Govt, candidate for
Devonportelection, and more
recently his uncle, the
brother of the Ancient
Mariner aforesaid, was
likewise left at the bot-
tom of the poll. There is
absolutely nothing in the
family, except Money—
the money which was made
by the original contractor,
Brassey. And even in their
moneyed capacity the descendants of the ex-
navvy have been put deeply into the shade by
dozens and scores and hundreds of modern
American millionaires.
Mr. Justice Bundey, the most popular of
S t A ' Su P reme Court judges, will be 65 years
old Jan. 30. He has almost completed 19 years
in his present office, but will not be entitled to
draw a pension (£l3OO a year) until he has sat for
20 years, 3o that although he is far from robust it
that he will yet resign. Judges Way
(66) and Boucaut (72) have both served their full
terms, but it is also stipulated that they must be
incapacitated from duty before they can claim
pensions and both are hale and strong. So Attor-
ney-General Gordon will have to wait awhile.
“T.J.T.” writes
Editor Bulletin. —A word for the much-abused Chief
Justice Madden. Very few of the decisions of the latter,
overruled by Vic. Full Court, go on appeal to the Privy
Council. It is therefore remarkable that in two recent
bool Court decisions overruling the C.J., which went on
appeal to the Privy Council, the judgments of the learned
C.J. were restored by the highest Court in the empire.
The cases referred to are Payne v. the King, reported in
Appeal Cases 1902, p. 554, and the Colonial Sugar Refin-
mg Co. v. the Attorney-General, reported in Appeal
Cases 1901, p. 514. The Privy Council also confirmed the
judgment of the O. J. sitting as a Vice-Admiralty Court
in the case of the ship Liddesdale, reported in Appeal
Cases 1900, p. 190.
School-inspector Neale (S.A.), who, agree-
ably to the wishes of Minister Gordon, has
hatched a scheme for saving £13,000 per annum
in teachers’ salaries, is a short, stodgy, saturnine
individual—a rigid disciplinarian, a pulpit orator,
and more admired than loved by the dominies.
He is a born financier, and the author of S.A.
teachers’ superannuation fund, the best of its kind
in Australia. Had he adopted politics he would
probably long ago have administered the S.A.
Treasury. As matters stand, he will “ run ” the
Education Department at the first opportunity.
Virtually he is running it now.
Westralian Lands Minister Jameson has
a,ccepted the position of Lands Minister in
S’Africa. The appointment is a solid one in a
monetary sense, carrying, besides a seat in the
Upper House, a salary of £2OOO per year, with an
additional £5OO as “allowances.” This is the
second big S’African office filled from ’Groper-
land ; last man secured was a Governor. Under
Crown Colony government the conquered Repub-
lics will have all their big political officials
nominated by the British Cabinet; that was how
Seddon was to have entered S’African politics, but
something went wrong with the negotiations.
Premier Barton, at Leichhardt, the other
evening:—
The lazy patriot was as unthinkable as the selfish or
dishonest patriot.
Yet patriots run in many shapes. Paul Kruger
was a patriot beyond any shadow of doubt, and
he is said to be a grasping one. Cola di Rienzi
was a drunken patriot in his latter days.
Peter the Great was a dirty patriot. Patriots
who couldn’t afford to be honest have been
common enough—many a good cause has been
Propped up with badly-gotten money. Even the
lazy patriot has been heard of —front name, Toby.
A recent Bulletin paragraph spoke of the
few Sydney University alumni who have played
any part in the Federal Parliament, and men-
tioned O’Connor and Barton. Melbourne Univer-
sity has scored a little more numerously, although
its reps, are likewise only on the legal side.
Higgins had a brilliant University career, and is
now one of the fathers in the Council. Deakin
apd Isaacs had a solid, although not meteoric,
University success, and Crouch was the Bowen
English essayist of his year. But only Barton,
Higgins, and Glynn, of S.A., have yet put any
Latin into Hansabd.
OUT OF DATE.
PHYLLIS: “Just look at that there Hypatia
Horkins —she ain’t got as much style as a
nigger. ”
HYACINTH: “ O, ’er; she’s one of these old-
fashioned women — she’s always messing about
with kids.”
Rev. M. M. Whitton, who runs a Mel-
bourne suburban church, and who has recently
offended some of his flock by what they consider
ritualistio. practices, was 20 years ago a reporter
on Adelaide Advertiser. At the same time
Archdeacon Whitington, of Hobart, was a jour-
nalist on the staff of Adelaide Register, which
has turned out several sin-shifters and which
has now one or two lay preachers in its employ.
Lady Jeune, whose daughter ( vide re-
cent cablegrams) has just been married under
extra-fashionable circumstances in London, is
known chiefly for the vigor of her lion-hunts and
the very poor “bags” she gets. Lions are cap-
tured, but mostly poor, toothless and mangy ones.
Oscar Wilde was once asked to sign a petition for
the reprieve of a man who had poisoned his wife.
“No, I really couldn’t,” he said regretfully, “if
he is reprieved I’ll certainly have to meet him at
Lady Jeune’s.”
Vic. Treasurer Shiels got leave to remain
sitting while delivering the Vic. Financial State-
ment ; he explains that he has to adopt this plan
because of a serious weakness of the heart. Shiels
tries hard to imitate Gladstone, who was said to
“ speak in italics,” but his efforts in this direction
are not very successful, because his enunciation is
shockingly bad. He has a fine command of pic-
turesque language, but, owing to some dental
idiosyncrasy, his words are by no means clear—
they seem to get mangled as they issue from his
mouth. An affectation in which Shiels follows
Gladstone is the constant sipping of something
from a flask (Gladstone used a little pomatum-
jar).
Lady O’Connell, dead in Brisbane at 89,
married her military and politician husband 68
years ago. She also was of military origin. Her
husband, Sir Maurice, was born in the officers’
quarters of the old barracks at Wynyard-square,
Sydney, near where the Langham Hotel now
stands. His mother was daughter of Governor
Bligh, the first local monarch young Australia
had the pleasure of deposing. Lady O’Connell
never ran after fashion or before it ; the official
positions held by her husband (he was many times
Acting-Governor) forced her to display occa-
sionally, but it was well known among her friends
that domestic quiet pleased her best. Maurice
O’Connell was a near relative of the great Dan’s,
but, unlike Dan, was an extreme loyalist.
It is freely whispered in Maoriland that
the chief cause of ex-Speaker O’Rorke’s defeat at
the general election was his inexplicable sub-
servience to Premier Seddon:
Time was when O’Rorke was unanimously voted “ the
Speaker ot Australasia,” but now all that is changed. Of
late years he seemed to have become hypnotised by
Seddon, and the man once noted for prompt decisions
and inflexible firmness, even in the height of the angriest
debate, became pitiably weak and vacillating under the
grumbling glare of “ the Boss.” At last the Seddonese
malady became so painfully apparent that O’Rorke lost
his status both in the House and in the country. Seddon
has expressed his profound regret at O’Rorke’s defeat,
and calls it “ a national loss.” But perhaps the greatest
loss from a Seddonian point of view is that he can’t well
find a successor for O’Rorke without cutting fresh bram-
bles for his own cuticle. By precedent, the choice should
fall on Guinness, the Deputy-Speaker. Guinness, how-
ever, is “ sore ” because Seddon has steadily resisted for
years all attempts—and many have been made—to pro-
mote him to the Attorn ej*Generalship, and he has shown
plainly enough during O’Rorke’s indisposition, when he
filled the chair, that Seddon will, to put it mildly, find
no favor from him.


MACONOCHIE’S
HERRINGS IN TOMATO SAUCE.
SWIFT & COM PAN Y, General Agents, 7 Spring Street, Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
THREE STAR
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.—ln the case of ethnological and
natural history items , etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
At Castlemaine (Vic.), the other day, a
man was heavily fined for having used fire-sticks
to stimulate to further exertions a miserably weak
and low-conditioned horse. This, so far as The
Bulletin knows, is the only Australian approach
to the lighting of a fire under a recalcitrant horse
—an atrocity for which convictions have been
occasionally obtained in Europe.
• « * »
There are many things better than being
a schoolmaster in some of the wayback districts
of N. Maoriland. Rowan is a place under the
shadow of Mt. Egmont, with no scenery other
than the miserable tree-stumps that hint at the
former existence of some native bush, and with a
dank and deadly climate, and no mental distrac-
tions other than talking in the rain to the un-
kempt settler from Starvation Gully. There are
a few children as wild and desolate as the place
itself, and so a schoolmaster has to be sent there.
The schoolmaster till recently in charge disappeared
on Dec. 20, and his body was found in the bush, four
miles from the school, on Jan. 3, by a search-party.
Near by was the fatal razor. The head was almost com-
pletely severed from the body. Deceased, who was 40
years of age, had been very despondent since the last
examination through not getting a good average of
passes. This makes the third consecutive suiaide of
schoolmasters of the Rowan school. The first one was
drowned, and the second cut his throat. At the inquest,
a verdict was returned that deceased died from wounds,
evidently self-inflicted, while of unsound mind.
The stipend is about per annum, and yet
there are lots of teachers in the country who
would be glad to get a billet at even that price
(owing to the fearful competition, and the un-
speakable inhumanity of the Education Boards).
• • • .
Yarrabah (N.Q.) aboriginal station, is run,
under missionary supervision, by a government of
12 members—all Church communicants. Yarra-
bah also possesses a king who is, in his own right,
native chief of Yarrabah, and who presides at all
meetings of the governing council, signs minutes,
etc. Also, various young half-caste and full-
blooded gins are on exhibition, who can cook,
scrub, wash, iron, and even take a fall out of the
'tons asinorum.
HARD LUCK.
JIM: “An’ did Kelly win his bet that he could do the two-
mile swim?”
MICK: “ Faita, thin, he didn't. He did a mile and a-half
of it, an’, becoming exhausted, he couldn’t finish, and
he had to turn round and shwim back agin.”
“ G. H.R.” tells of a snake’s meal :
Riding in the West Bogan country once, I came upon a
large carpet snake, coiled round a rabbit. Presently, the
reptile drew off one coil (its head end) and, taking no
notice of me standing within 6ft. of it, started to swallow
its prev, the head of which was fully three times as large
as the snake’s. The latter, however, opened its mouth so
that both top and bottom jaws were in the same vertical
line ; and, as I watched, the rabbit’s head and half the
shoulder disappeared. As I was close to the homestead,
I thought I would drag the brute thither with a forked
stick, being under the impression that snakes are unable
to disgorge, having once got a fair start. But, the
moment I touched the snake, he disgorged and shot out
about 2ft. of rigid body towards me. For fully a minute
he fixed me with menaciug eye, then turned again to his
interrupted meal. 1 then left him, and returned next
morning to the spot, but he had gone; had probably
crawled into a large hollow log, close by.
• • « •
Before the local drought broke up, the
Flinders (Q.) was merely a chain of water holes,
and in some of these, particularly at the Clutka
6tation, crocodiles collected in great numbers.
Scores were shot on the banks, and many from
dried-up holes left the river-bed and died on the
downs. Also, on the Norman River, in December,
a man shot three at the 14-Mile inside an hour,
one measuring 16ft.
Wired from Adelaide to Sydney dailies,
t’other day, that “ a peculiar conical-shaped
leather-like object was found on Glenelg Beach,
and upon being opened it proved to be the egg of
a shark, containing a live young shark about l|in.
long.” Also, that a local naturalist said it was a
“Port Jackson or dog shark.” Port Jackson
shark eggs —common about Botany Bay—are of
spiral formation, apparently so that they may be
worked by wind or wave into the sand to be
hatched. The Port Jackson shark is oviparous,
while most others are ovoviviparous.
• • • *
The excessive heat of a few days back
accounted for 27 deaths in four days in and about
Lismore (N.S.W.), besides many more in adjacent
towns. Birds dropped dead from the trees, and
fish perished in shallow creeks. About the same
time hundreds of fish were frozen to death in
creeks near Bundaberg (Q.), the result of a heavy
hailstorm, which in places covered the ground 3ffc.
deep with hail.
> » * *
To some stock-owners the rain was as big
a shock as the drought. One man on Tomahawk
Creek, Clermont (Q.), had kept his stock alive
through the dry time by cutting oak trees ; then
one night the rain came down in torrents, and
while the cattle were oak-feasting along the bed
of the creek, the water rushed on them. He has
now but five head left to keep down a large crop
of grass. , » *
As far as the dry districts are concerned it
isn’t now only a question of getting enough water;
what is wanted is a scheme that will keep the
surface of the earth in the place where Nature put
it. Only lately the W. Wimmera (Vic.) Irrigation
Trust spent £550 in clearing out its channels.
Then the dust-storm just before the late rains filled
them up even worse than before, and the Trust is
feeling very tired —in fact, the only effort of which
it is capable is to argue with the Government
that, as it was general State dust that filled the
channels, it is only fair the State should clean
them out. And the State argues that the dust
was probably South Australian dust blown across
the border, and that Jenkins should come and
fetch it away.
. • • •
Tarella, ex-M.L.A. Quin’s far-western
(NSW.) squattage, has been keeping drought-
records for 30 years. In ’B7 the gauge showed
21’26in.; but Nature felt exhausted after that, and
in the next year there was but 3’l2in. Last year
easily beat this with 4’o7in. The average for the
30 years is 10’31in. ; for the last 7 years, 6’69in.
But Walloo, a station in the same (Wilcannia)
district, wins the drought prize, with a record of
no rain whatever from August, 1901, to July, 1902.
. * * ♦
“German Jack,” the bul-
locky, approached Fanning’s
homestead with some doubts as
to his reception. A mishap had
caused the death of two young
bullocks which Fanning had lent
him upon condition of breaking
them in, and Fanning had warned
him that he’d have to pay £l3 for
the two. “ Blanky scrags 1” mut-
tered Jack, as he went to the
back - door. “ Not worth -£4
apiece ! ” He opened the door
and walked in without ceremony,
and blurted out —“ I’ve got some
loadin’ for you in the yard—
where’ll I put it?” “Con-
found it, man !” exclaimed Fan-
ning “ don’t you know any
better than to walk into a house
like that, without even knock-
ing?” But Jack only sank down
in a chair, mumbling, “I’m dead
beat; ’ave ’ad a big day o’ it;
come about 14 mile.” “ Oh, all
right!” said Fanning. “But
let me show you how you should
have done it. Just suppose for
a minute that I am German Jack
and you are me.” With that he
walked out, shut the door behind
him, and, after a slight interval,
knocked softly. “Come in!”
roared Jack, and Fanni ng opened
the door, walked in, and said
politely : ‘ ‘ Good evening, Mr.
Fauning! I have got some load-
ing in the yard for you. Will
you kindly tell me where to put
it? ” “ Oh, yer ’ave, ’ave yer?”
said the temporary Fanning,
with a grin. “Well, me lad,
just leave it outside, an’ come in
an’ ’ave a drink ; yer must be
awful knocked-up.” And Jack
went over to a cupboard in which
he knew the whisky was kept,
and brought out the bottle and
two glasses. These he filled, while Fanning
stared in amazement, which was doubled when
Jack, passing him over a jorum, further
observed: “There, me lad, get that down
yer neck. And, I say don’t you worrv
about them two bullocks o’ mine you killed; 1
won’t charge you for them; I’ve got paddocks-
full. It’s all right.” And the astounded Fanning
feebly repeated—“ Yes, it’s all right!” as he
dropped into a chair and humbly accepted a glass
of his own whisky. And Jack never paid for
those bullocks.
» • • •
“ L.C.”: Was present once in the Warden’s
Court in Clermont (Q.), when an unfortunate
Chinaman was being sat upon for mining without
a license, and as, of course, Johnny “No saveed,”
an interpreter was procured. The case was
proved, and defendant asked what he had to
say. For nearly a quarter of an hour he and the
interpreter harangued each other, and gesticulated
wildly. At last, as it was near luncheon-time,
the Warden broke in and asked what defence the
man had. “If please, sah,” answered the inter-
preter, “ he say, suppose you let him go, he welly
much oblige.” The Warden was so tickled that
he did let nim go.
“Mir”: Strange that a rabbit-trappers
dogs, though the best of friends among them-
selves, will always set on one of their number that
happens to get caught in a trap, and seek to
worry him !
ANOTHER GOVERNMENT MARTYR.
IGNORANT INTRUDER : “ What's the game, mate?
Prayin' for rain?”
CIVIL SERVANT: “No! I'm waiting for the Ex-
press train to run over me so as to annoy
Tommy Bent." (Weeps.) “ And I'm blest if
it isn’t two hours late !”
“ X.Z.” on the drought:
I met “Gillet” in the bush with his gin. They had
got a kangaroo-rat and an iguana, and the gin had just
made a fire by a little storm-hole in the gun>n “ Gillet ”
is a wizened old blackfeliow, dressed in saddle-strap-and-
“ tomahawu ” costume. I hobbled-out my horse and set
my quart on their fire, and we lunched together. Gillet
manipulated the kangaroo-rat on the embers until it was
cooked ; then, dexterously opening it, and throwing the
entrails over to his gin, he shared the savoury - meat with
me.
•« Well, Gillet,” I asked presently, “ when big-fella rain
come up ? ’’
“ Baal rain come any more ! ”
“ No. How’s that ? ”
* ‘ Oh, my word ! God, him cobbon saucy ’long a white-
fella.”
“ Yes ; what for?”
“ He bin want to kick up row.”
“ You tell me what for altogether.”
“ You see um, boss, he like it this way. God bin make-
urn country first time. He bin make-um plenty grass,
plenty water. He bin have um little-fella mob kangaroo,
emu, turkey, plenty duck. Then white-fella come. He
see um country. He like um, cobbon. He van, and
come back ; fetch-um monkey and bullocky ; big mob ;
cobbon big-fella mob ! Bullocky an’ monkey bin tuck-
out grass) an’ bin pfiness um waterhole. Then white-
fella bin make-um dam, an’ pfstop um creek ; he don’t
like um, but he no bin yabber. Then water he bin go
bung more, an’ white-fella he bin pfetch up hingin and
pfmakem bore. The God he cobbon saucy. He want
kick-up cobbon row. He say white-fella ptnockin’ Him
out of a job. Then bullocky and monkey pfinish-uni up
grass, an’ white-fella cobbon swear. God, He laugh big-
fella. He won’t send um rain. He laugh, an’ say, * All
right; you bin berry flash, makin’ dam an’ makin’ bore.
Yah ! Now you make-um plurry grass !’ ”
» • * »
Writes “ Country Journalist” :
Re cartoonlets in last issue and the Russian plough-
team. “ Hop ’’ has evidently never been in some of the
German-settled rural districts of S’Australia, say about
Auburn, Murray Bridge, or in and beyond the Hills ;
notably about that savory spot Towitta. There it is a
common sight to see the old frau and the young frauleins
p'oughing, seeding, and wood-carting whilst the head of
the family is camped in the shade pulling away at a pipe.
Once in the Burra an old “ squarehead ” became very con-
fidential with me at the pub. He wound up by inviting me
to visit him out in the wilds towards Morgan and adduced
as an allurement that he had two fine daughters who went
out chopping and cutting the wood which he brought into
Kooringa for sale. “ Two darn’ fine girls, init b;g muscle.
You seem decent sort of fellow—will give you one for your
frau." Having previously had some evidence of the
old man’s fist —and muscle—in a trifling pugilistic
encounter between him and another farmer over the
respective merits of “ Y'armany” and England, I was indis-
posed to further explore the family strength and
attractions.
• • • •
“Grevillea”: That notion about the
mirror reflections of the moon is as ancient as it
is ridiculous. Strike a match in a dark room and
you will see several reflections of the flame if yon
hold it a certain distance from a mirror.
“Bosco”: At Augustus
Downs station (Gulf of Carpen-
taria) in ’99 I saw a nig. who, in
a.sham fight, had been hurt in-
ternally by a boomerang, f but,
though badly bruised on the
abdomen, the skin was quite un-
broken. A gin—the medicine-
woman of the tribe —sat by the
patient’s side crooning a monoto-
nous dirge, and at intervals striking
her mouth
alternately
wit i each
hand.
Sudden-
ly, with
a yell,
she
threw
herself
on the
injured
buck, and,
putting
her lips to
the bruised
part,
sucked
vigorously.
In a few
moments
she spat out
a quantity
of blood,
then sucked
again, and
again more
blood, and
a third time
more blood.
The nigger
was persuaded
that she had
sucked all the
bad blood from
the injured
part, and sure
enough he
rapidly
recovered. It
was some time
before we found
out how the thing
was done. The
gin had concealed
in one hand a
sharp fragment
of shell, with which, when striking her mouth, she
contrived to lacerate her tongue and the inside
of her lips—hence the blood. But the trick was
very cleanly done.
* • 0 *
Exploring, the other day, in the centre of
Broken Hill, for a lost fire-plug, a surveyor got
into the filled-in shaft on Dan M‘Kay’s original
prospecting claim, taken up almost simultaneously
with the Broken Hill mine. Rummaging a few
feet lower, he found a coffee tin with some dried
tobacco and an ancient bill —probably among the
first ever made out at Broken Hill —and it ran like
this: —
Mr. Dax M'Kay. Esq.
Dr. to Wm. Dblamore.
To Meals £0 8 0
To Drinks .. .. .. 7 16 0
Total .. .. £7 19 0
And the surveyor, who knew all the men of the
old time, sat down on the heap and wondered
what Dan, the wild, warm-hearted, open-handed
veteran of a dozen rushes, wanted with so much
“ meals ” !
The Late DANTEL HARRISON, Veteran
Victorian Journalist.
“Dickon”: Be that horse-suicide (8.,
31/’O3). On Wilgabar, near Walgett. N.S.W.,
Mr. A. Brouff hid a cow which so troubled a
neighboring cookie that he threatened to impound
her. She was thereujion hobbled, and was found
bogged in a tank, making strenuous efforts to get
her bead uuder water. From this she was pre-
vented by a log un ler her neck, and, after much
trouble, she was hauled out. But she immediately
walked in again (this time choosing a more suit-
able place) and deliberately lay down and drowned
herself. "S erdict of neighboring cockies —“The
obblin’ broke ’er ’art.”


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
A Drink! A Tonic! A Medicine!
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call for WOLFE’S Schnapps and make sure that
you take nothing else.
Gentlemen's
Chains
With Solid
Gold Links
Solid 15ct. Double Albert, £5 ss. to £lO 10s.
WE MAKE
Chains of quiet, elegant de-
signs, yet unique and original.
Chains a man of refined taste
feels he can wear with
pleasure.
The finish, too, is such that they afford the keenest pleasure, being equal to London work '
Direct from the maker to the wearer. A good, solid, lOct. Chain costs about £3 3s. A 15ct. one about £5 5s
No leakages anywhere enables us to sell at London Prices.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
23 HUNTER STREET.
“ Nym ” : -Be “ Boko ” upon snakes
(8., 27/12/’O2). The State school wall-charts
teach that Australian venomous snakes are
mostly amphibious. Then, as to snakes
using only live food. A
Nanneella (Vic.) cookie’s
wife noticed, a few weeks
back, that her two-year-old
little girl took her
“Goodie”saucer, after
t>reakfast, and emp-
tied it down a knot-
hole in the floor.
This took place
several times, then
the child took ill and
remained in bed,
and after breakfast
the mo‘her found
Gin. of snake throng!)
the hole, awaiting its
breakfast at the hand
of the little one. She
attempted to kill the
reptile, but failed ;
and then for several
nights she placed
squares of buttered
bread near the hole.
These were duly
taken, and then the
menu was varied with
a layer of rat-poison
paste, which also dis-
appeared A few days
later, a smell of stale
snake (once sniffed,
never to be forgotten)
began to come through
the floor, which, on
being removed, dis-
closed. a decomposed
sft. Bin. black reptile.
• •
“ Kink ” : Has any
Bulletin reader ever
measured a snake’s spring?
On the Murray, last year, I
was creeping on a pair ot
teal, when a tiger-snake
sprang at me from beside a
stump. Measured the distance
or nearly twice his length. Two feet
closer and I would have been bitten 1
*•* ' *
A nerveful man is W. Kerr, of Boisdale
Gippsland. Thrown from his heavily - loaded
cart he grabbed the breeching, but was dragged
under the wheel. Though almost crushed to
death he stiJl stuck to breeching and reins and
managed to back the horse off him. Then lie got
up, chained the wheel, and walked a few yards
before he fell insensible, with a broken rib almost
penetrating the liver.
* * * •
Harry Stockdale . Bulletin readers may
be interested in my reply —re grave or ceremonial
stones — to Mr. A. Lockhart, Moree, N.S.W.:
Hardly anything is positively known about these
grave-stones.” Mr. L. describes one form just as I have
met with it, but makes no mention of two other forms
equally rare, found in the localities which may be called
generally, the Darling country. I have never met any/
such stones anywhere else. One of these other forms &
shaped like an emu-egg, and is about half or tbrge-
quarters as big. The other, and rarest of all, is shaped
rudely like a boy’s “ tip-cat,” about 3in. long by isin-. dia.
Both these forms are casts, and I believe are made of
burnt gypsum and sand. When I have asked natives why
they put these “stones” on graves, they couldn’t (or
wouldn’t) give any reason. I have several times
found the Kopi or “ Widow’s Cap ” on the grave as
these grave-stones, and believe they only mark the graves
of males. I have long supposed that these stones may
have some phallic significance, an idea supported by the
forms of two of them. I have never seen the stones out-
side the district above specified, though on the western
Vic. plains there used to be remarkable stone circles,
varying in size and sometimes double—instance one on
the Mt. Elephant Plains. The stbne mounds of which
air Geo. Grey spoke (but of which I never found any) were
each 22ft. sin. long, one 13 and the other 16ft. broad, and
one 4ft. 3in. and the other sft. lOin. in height and 33ft.
apart. They were placed due east and west. Grev
considered that they were tombs and thought they might
be from 200 to 300 years old.
“Clubs’': Re Lilydale snake-yarn
(B„ 14/4/’01). At Clermont (Q.), a miner,
when he had finished his day’s work, was
in the habit of feeling in a sugar-bag to
see if his little store of gold was all right.
Every evening, for two months, he re-
ceived a sharp prick on the hand when
he inserted it in the bag. Investigated
at last, and found he had been bitten over
and over again by a little carpet snake.
* • * *
A Jumbuk (N.S.W.) farmer named
Bolger was recently bitten on the finger
by a tiger-snake. He hurriedly scarified
the wound with his penknife, then rushed
to a poddy-calf in a paddock close by.
“Suck, suck, suck!” cried Bolger, and
when the calf ran up, he stuck the finger
in its mouth, and the calf sucked, After-
wards he rode 15 miles to Morwell, where
the doctors pronounced him quite cured.
As a snake-bite cure the poddy-calf will
take some beating.
* * * *
Cat-fish from the Murray are now
sent to Melbourne and smoked. They sell
well under the title of “Murray ling.”
“Simon” : Re the distance country girls
will go to a dance. In the hot summer of 1900 I
met on the Bobobolar Road, near Mudgee (N.S.
Wales), two girls going to an ordinary country
“hop.” They had already walked 10 miles, and
were still “ going strong ” for the remaining
three.
• * • •
A. section of the mail-carrying in the hills
behind Adelaide is now being done by a pair of
mules, bought at a cost of £46, and the example
is likely to spread. The mules cover 23 miles of
very hilly country (but over good roads) every
day, two pairs of horses being formerly used for
the same work. They are much less particular as
to their food than horses are, and their sure-
footedness makes it possible to push them much
faster going downhill.
THE YOUNG MAN’S ADVANTAGE.
PATER : "Yer out of work, alius smoking cigars,
and yer father has to be content with a pipe.”
ONLY SON : But you see, dad, I’ve got no
children to keep.”
A.N.A. : Sugar-grower was recently
instructing in the use of the hoe a lot of Kanakas
just landed from a labor ship. “Look here’
Jimmy, he said to one whose name was on the
list as “Jim.” “You take him hoe like it this,
and cut him away grass like it that.” “I per-
fectly understand, sir,” was the cold reply.
“And, if you please, my name is James.” The
man was a native missionary.
* * • •
J “A.J.M.”: Snipe do breed in Australia.
'ln the ’so’s I repeatedly found their nests (or
rather eggs, for nests they make none) at the
edges of the small swamps near Mts. Buninyong
and Warrenheip (Vic.). Eggs nearly as large as
pigeons’, of a dull grey color, irregularly marked
with brown patches. They used to breed in the
same places year by year until closer settlement
drove them away.
* • * *
Irrigation in the back-blocks in drought-
time v, ill probably prove a more expensive
operation than anyone supposes, writes a cor-
respondent. For example: When pumping, in
connection with[Wee Waa railway works, a volume
of over 3000 gallons per hour was maintained,
for four hours. The whole of the 12,000 gals. ran
into one crack in the ground.
Ambrose Hallen, the Toongabbie (N.S. W.)
poultry-fancier is one of the men who do things
rather than talk things. Though totally blind, he
AMBROSE HALLEN.
hewed his famous poultry farm out of the
original bush, grubbed all the trees himself, set
down his own fences and buildings, and now is a
substantial producer of wealth. Last season 250
clutches of chickens were hatched out on his farm
without any loss. Though blind, Mr. Hallen can
tell the breed and quality of any bird by the
touch, and is a most successful exhibitor of prize
birds.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
o liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany
Blister : Probably an oversight. And, in any
case, we’ve no wish to “bark ” at such a good-humored
correspondent.... J.C.B. : The metre gets you down and
the rhyme licks y0u.... Jimack : Discharged, accordingly,
under the First Offenders’ Act... .8.J.8. : A very sillly
production.. ..S.F.N. : There are four recognised usages
—l, an entirely different word, as with “Vienna” for
Wien 2, the original name with an English pro-
nunciation, as with “ Paris” ; 3, the original name with
original pronunciation, as with “Bordeaux”; 4, ditto
with alternative pronunciation, as with “ Calais,” cor-
rectly pronounced either French fashion or English....
Alpha . There’s a very material difference between pray-
ing for rain and praying for a “spiritual benefit”: the
latter might be reasonably supposed to come to a Chris-
tian believer as the result of prayer, because, in many
.cases, the very act of prayer grants what he asks. But
to pray for a material benefit, the grant of which in-
volves an interference with physical laws, is more illogical
than to pray, say, for success in a “Tatt.’s ” sweep. And
you wouldn’t do that, would do? W.H. : Obscenity
mixed with Scripture. No, thanks.. ..A.F.M. : Much
space, little story.... Vision : A tame dream, and
“ k ® a maf » to dream like the Apocalypse....
the Shadow : In some respects, nicely done, but over-
sentimental. If we found anybody talking out loud like
t na t m this paper we’d kick ourselves for a fortnight
E. Metz : A poor, half-hearted fiction, which obviously
you don t believe yourself. The successful lie is graven in
tne spirit of the artist, and is believed by its creator with
S w• qV short ’ no balance-sheet of any
o ' -W* s<cnoo!ls “public displays” has been
published. The fact is scandalous, but it doesn’t need a
column to tell L.E. :In the words of Alukar, “My
son, make thy tongue sweet and the opening of thy
mouth agreeable, for the tail of the dog wins him bread,
but his mouth gets him stripes.” R.C. : Once for all :
cease those vile imitations ; write less ; think and feel"
S'w 6 ’ a „ r i d ex P ress your own self, if you have any....
S’ • Man y men, it is evident, join Social Purity
Societies for the crooked gratification of desires, the
natural satisfaction of which is denied them
Ilf l\. our P articular theory re the servant-girl problem",
that a good mistress never has trouble with servants”
18 . r?“: As .well say that a good editor never has trouble
with intoxicated contributors, ora good President never
has trouble with anarchists, or a good citizen never has
trouble with larrikins, or a good Early Christian never had
trouble with persecuting Roman emperors, or a gotd
Unitarian is never kept awake by his neighbor’s dog
h fn S e D P t r: u^, ct J eeky - atfcem P t t 0 “ Hng-in ”on us one
of the Bab ballads, slightly changed for the worse....
P.S.O. : Not nearly clever enough Comp. : Many
thanks for letter and clipping.... A.G.: That sort of thing
wouldn t work in N.S.W. For one tiling, Saxony has 743
people to the sq. mile ; N.S.W. has 4. Just plant fruit
trees along the road to Mount Browne, and hump
the fruit to (say) Bourke or Bathurst for sale,
and see what the profit will be Secnarf: Very
difficult to read and no style or grace about it
b.E. : Princesses are the worst possible judges of men
because they only meet courtiers C.W. : But why
didn’t Graham Berry’s interviewer ask the superannuated
battler for his opinion on the Irvine Govt.’s proposal to
make a further reduction in Old Age Pension expenditure ?
....Rule Britannia: If you could boil your two cols,
down to a par. it would be well. No room for such
lengthy polemics Felix : Rather too prolix and
not fresh enough B. Lister: Don’t remember;
but then we get so many thousands of letters
G Y. : Vaguely remember Leura as the dustiest and most
utterly depressing township on the Blue Mountains. It
doesn't want bad poems made about it; it wants a hie
fire E.M.P. :If you investigate a little further you
may find that the law under which Vic. Government can
compulsorily resume land for “ public purposes” doesn’t
cover resumption for closer settlement. Therefore, Vic-
toria has a closer settlement law, but it doesn’t provide for
compulsory re-purchase. As for the theory that—because
one line where the population is 20 to the sq. mile loses more
in interest and working expenses than another line where
the population is three per sq. mile loses in interest
alone (line being closed and pulled up there are no work-
ing expenses)—therefore it isn’t population that is
needed to make the railways pay, you possibly
hold that the really paying line would be
the one where there is no population at all
Vul. : We don’t print nauseous obstetrical items : running
a newspaper doesn’t necessarily involve publication of
stuff that gives one a loathing for breakfast Carpo :
You’re recognisable as the “ carpet-slipper” order of con-
tributor. When short of par. matter you don’t latch
your shoes and go forth and collect news, but shufHe to an
easy chair in your slippers and concoct lies and half-lies.... '
E. Mew. : Vile J.B. : Sorry verse unsuitable.
Standard 11. (S’Africa) : Many thanks.... J.C. W. : Point
hardly sharp enough.... Onlooker :It doesn’t quite “ get
there.” Durdles : Threadbare theme and tame treat-
ment.. ..R.V.L. : Good yarn. For print H.S.R. :
You should have given name and location of the station
in question....C.A.F. : Well enough written, hut too
conventionally pathetic for Bulletin Frank K. : Has
some strength, but the situation becomes too warm at
the end General: Humorous, but details unpalatable.
....Bob R. : “Together” is hardly worth print..
Commercial: Too far-fetched....M. Onoline : Please do
try to write decent English yourself Fred S. : It’s a
matter of the commonest knowledge that habitual
criminals feel at home in gaol—and you put it forward as
a startling discovery... .J.J.M’D. : Has a second-hand
flavor about it. The term “ tramp ” isn’t used in Aus-
tralia, anyhow Stan: “Broad Arrow” is badly
handled and ends flatly... C.C.H. : Hasn’t quality enough.
Bagman : Not good enough Mac : Either drink or
poetry will be your ruin. Make it drink, for our sake.
A.E.M. : Sorry not worth space Blackbutt:
Smashing a Chinese joss is not, as you say, a “harmless
amusement and the wiping out of a hideous idol.” How
would you like a Chinese to spit on your church, or
altar, or crucifix, even to rip up your grandmother’s
portrait? Shooter: Sorry unsuitable “Bliss
Carman ” :_Do you send those in as original verses?....
Jat: Received... .G.H.W. : None quite good enough 1
and “Carousal" is an echo W.H. : Handling not
bright W. J.: “Yielding” too faint “ Meum
est”: Too suggestive Ku Klux: Very crude
and very unsavory E.H.B. (S.A.): No, thanks.
Lorel: Smoothly done and workmanlike but after
all only adultery yarns of a familiar type with no
fresh thrill Indra : Hardly bright enough Demos :
Much merit but too thin for B Fraulein : Some merit
in “ Sale” but not interest enough Jas. R.: “W. D.
Ever ” isn’t dexterously done. Such things call for the
deftest of touches Thompson: You surely didn’t
expect to see so bald a brutality—here !.... Caroera : If
you want to collect pay for a contribution, cut the
printed matter out of Bulletin and send it as voucher to
accountant, Bulletin office, giving date and page of
publication E.J. : “On the Rand” rather slow
Ecla : You must do your looking-forward with a brighter
eye. “Anticipation of how Australia became a Re-
public ”is quite unreal Ratz : Exactly; but we spell
it with an “ 5.".... W.W.B. : A very tame little Sunday-
school story....J.H.K. : Merely a school-boyish descrip-
“°" 2 f i he “ t - y ---,v The La y the Loafer (no name
attached). It would make a g-ood music-hall sons* <
Snowflake: Tame and colorless... .0.0. : “Crisis” has
points, but is too obviously patterned on “ The Last Day
from a Sub-Editor s Point of View.”... .R.S. : YVe were in
doubt about that elegy but finally decided not to print,
loo much of the hackneyed in mernoriam card.
h X ;”: ; «ot quite bad enough '.to print.... Warrigal : Not
bright... .A.O. : Try a* ladies' paper... .YV. II. ; Bit too
cheap To Florrief "
The answer comes in Poetry
Inspired by yours ft may be :
Just wait until you marry he f
And read ’em to the Baby.
: , To ° • • ■ w -McL. (Melbourne): Not
bright enough. John Fagan : No ; so far as we know,
he is a Laborist, but unattached.. ..S.H.R. : Not new ■
and not especially vigorous Sirhap : You fly wildly
round, and fail to finally land anywhere J B (YV A )•
Subject interesting, -but style absurdly magniloquent
P w tent . , . 0U '!v;-' F - aS - : Verses ab out “Home
sweet Home utterly commonplace B. Bill : Hardly
worth While Scrutator: Absurd at first glance, but
practically serves its purpose Reele S. : Too long-
wmded. Commonwealth Policy ” forwarded Terry
B. . Well conceived, ill executed Suva: It has been
frequently and better done already M.M.S. : Bee-ins
.well, but slumps badly Jura : Appeared in Bulletin
ih y A 6ar e a f°-' ,V Gorax : Wil1 the information
trom the Australian Museum experts W. Mac.: Can’t
waste time over such an ignominious scribble Sooiee :
That question has been shelved Dora S. : Briehtlv
written, but interest too slender. ® y
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
,nV r r C Y, : Absolutely aboriginal art. .. Ben : Smells like
an Enghsh comic theme ; we are tired of gening such
ts-.-C^laucile A. M. : That printing-office drawing
would easily pass, but not its present legend CL • If a
drawing is returned there’s no need for a reply in this
column Unavailable : D.P.R., Eric J P y
Jacques Inaudi is an arithmetician, ‘’Dorn'’
not made, and is content to let his natural Rifts so
without cultivation. Some years before InaudT’s
birth another boy was born not far from his birth-
place, who, although lie could neither read nor
write, was able to wrestle with most abstruse
figure problems. His parents decided to send
SIGNOR INAGDI,
The Unique Lightning Calculator.
Photo, by Hormig, Detroit, Mich.
him to school to learn the three R’s-the last R
in particular and it was soon discovered that the
more he knew of rules the less could he draw
on the marvellous mental powers he once held.
Inaudi has not,attempted any artificial cultivation
of his curious gift and says that he could calculate
almost as well when a boy as now, In the opinion
ot Charcot, the great brain specialist, Inaudi has
two brains and this is a part explanation of
his powers. Certainly he has a most curiously-
shaped head ; its .contents maybe definitely
ascertained, in the interests of science some day—
some distant day let us hope for Inaudi’s sake.
Indigestion and Biliousness Banished.
r following case of Mr. Elliott Watkins, of
Eady Robinson’s Beach, Rockdale, is a fitting
illustration of the wonderful efficacy of Bile Beans
in curing the most severe cases of indigestion and
biliousness. This gentleman says: “For a period
of over four years I was a sufferer from indigestion
and biliousness, the symptoms which troubled me
most being a dizziness in the head, accompanied
by a languid feeling, and a most perpetual and
intolerable headache. My stomach was distended
alter eating, and violent gnawing pains attacked
me in the chest, breathing being at times most
distressing. I was also greatly troubled by fits
of vomiting, when I would be utterly prostrated
and temporarily deprived of sight for a period
extending over hours. I consulted several doctors
who prescribed for me, without giving more than
temporary relief. At the solicitation of a friend
I tried Bile Beans, though I did not anticipate
any good resulting. To my surprise the first box
gave relief, and after a month or sO, Bile Beans
did tor a few shillings what doctors failed to do
tor many pounds during many months of trial
JL give this testimony most' freely .and gladly
W t [ lat others who know me may be induced!
should they be attacked in a similar manner to
myself, to give Bile Beans a trial.” Bile Beans
have now a world-wide reputation for curing
biliousness, headache, indigestion, constipation,
E j ui female weaknesses, nervousness
bad blood, pimples, and all skin eruptions; bad
breath, anaemia, loss of appetite, sleeplessness,
summer fag, etc. Bile Beans are obtainable from
all medicine vendors, price Is. l£d., or 2s. 9d.
large box (contains three times the quantity of
the Is. size).


Minister Crick has gone to Maoriland for
the benefit of his health.
Owim» to « coaf-famfna fr» th» U-S.'
foreign ccrak. is to be admitted free of
duty.
He is here seen enjoying a mud-bath. In an
absent-minded moment he imagines himself in
“another place." and calls out “Mister Speaker !*’
The matter of organising a public demonstration in aid of Ihe
sufferers by the drought will be considered at the next meeting of
the metropolitan committee of the Australian Natives' Association
On Tuesday. Byggestions sent to Box 802, G.P.0., will receive the
committee’s consideration.
The Bulletin suggests that the Asa aforesaid brays f?r rajn. ,
Kino Coal “Cold weather this, sir!”
Uncle Sam : “ Yes, by gosh : it’s a
mighty cold day when I allow f ur .
yer teU’’° me *" here without W*’,
" The Government recently informed the Admiralty
that Victoria was in a position to supply raisins for the.
me of the navy. The total consumption of rak.us
amounts to 300 tons a year.”.
Question for the Moral Philosopher : If it takes
a ton of lead to kill a man. does the consumption
of rafeins increase in an inverse ratio as the square
•of the bill of mortality in naval warfare ?
The Moral Philosopher is here seen in the
act of “giving it up.”
A
yy
v
y?r v>
np y
❖//
o .» N
yy
V
Y«s. There is room' there for both of hi® to teaUt
abreast without " acrooging ”
lS LIFE TttERB IS -DOPE-
ju Bl before NAW. taffiT* **. [jf* Act
PV- Tho bills have a currency offoL years A Hi 10 Jjon< W&at
cMt Premier See is jubilant," says Sydney lntereB t' at 4 per
“ T hs more we advertise the
so-called lamentable condition
of things here, the less likely
people will be t» Jgnd u»
money, "r—Jajttj* gjg*, '
True. When a Man approaches his banker to get a “ little temporary ac.saSP.®Qda
tion," and bis coat-tails are gone and his trousers have been heif-ssJsd. he Carefully
keeps his face towards his man until he has landed the cajsft ti iafl't BtAUtly
ingenuous, perhaps ; but it’o buajne&j,
CARTOONLETS.


I h Slaw 16 ac/oid A/ovin'wgT
Co n l£ übbernwit^i 3$ * *
.Silly jof>,c
' fc>ro-J>os of Kc-c e.rf>
' C £T
Prewjiej-B
*'efer»»rffV
( to dvf "to
k CtfrftCJSW) „
ajmost ncwc, «Icn?
V/,by daest-jr
he give f i-tfic
flow fr- ■«—
.yt'm
[Joe Tt/o^
WKie
op If\t orr ify? grounds
'-'Ofcr if "encoufcflt) oaonblino;"
*3B
"tffe e<iuc£fio*i oJ"rtfe
P«of>l€ on [Joirrt' \?c
-jfimKc ljac/e pone
i
W *"to "be \accegd|t^p\
pnrit y Well
-ft)*t" ltf«.
Cituens ju
"been "t® /ffc I
m ■jfe*fc y J &
of Combe lii»79
■po scw?p r lßeif /
— § r *®v'
fr)&jiy of Ifjie £>oi
lya/e not yet" been connected
' KesJly p-yoiA mttsT gef clewed
% W* been
Cljortk °l
'' Ha.ll • Ha>l 1 tf)e Cljiep
came
OUR
CURE.
FOR THE
SALKYLJC
BEER ,
in
tYorr? ir/orc
wriltl dccenY infervajj
"WWi % vvirfj
*> >f.
||is i/CJon Wot*ld *
Became ilrey leT b'nrj
rglorfe 57)00 Aci'ec,
l/e 100,000
SARE EACH BREWER
D&ink a Bottle of
Klg QYJH liquor
MOSTLY MELBOURNIAN.


Key,
£3 los,
Keyless,
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Pull Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £8 10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £o 10s, £6, £7, £8;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l6, £2O.
A written certificate for 8, 4, and 6 years.
Try one ; yon will not regTet it.
Free-
trade
Prices.
No
Advance
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable "WATERBURY WATCHES.
Long Wind, 8s 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model, (1., 18s 6d ;
Extra duality, 2-plate, 18s 6d and £l.
Silver, 85s;
Gold, £2 15s.
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
20s.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEYER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
Solid Silver, 85s; Double Case, £2.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
Black or
Nickel,
30s.
Silver,
£5.
%
f=3
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel or Black, 30s ;
Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ; Split Seconds, £3 10s.
Pure Solid Silver, as above, £5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO ;
Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s.
Gold
Cased,
-£4 4s,
mt.
/A
W-
&
m
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting- Cate* Fvfm
duality Movements. ’
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Eases, Waltliams, £4 4s, £5 5 S •
Solid GMd, £7 10s. £10, £12 lUs ’
£15, £20, and £25.
3, 4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £2 10s, £8
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6
£6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s!
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, three Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, with Safety Chain, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELET, all the style, price according
to width, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ;
loot. Gold, £3, £4. £5, £6.
A. UNDER*?.
Gold Sword and Pearl Spray BROOCH, with Diamond
Heart, 25s ; loot. Gold, £2 ss.
Gold Bar Amethyst BROOCH, 12s 6d.
English Hall Marked.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style 2-Bar Gold BROOCH,
Diamond and two Red Stones, 20s.
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
£3 ; 15ct., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s,' £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
Very Pretty Gold BRACELET Diamond, Red, or Blue
Stones, £2 10s; 15ct. Gold, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS. *
New Peace Offering Twin Dove BROOCH,
with Enamelled Leaf, 17s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Doable Cat,
£2 ; with Ruby, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style. 15ct. Gold Pearl Set Buckle 2-Bar
BROOCH, 32s 6d. English Hall Marked.
A. SAUNDERS'.
New Style, Gold BROOCH, Hall-marked,
Diamond and 2. Red Stones, 22s 6d.
Gold BROOCH, 2-Ba. Diamond, with Four Red
or Blue Stones, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Eorget-Me-Not BROOCH,
English Hall-marked, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Our 2 Bird Gold BROOCH, 10s. Very neat.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Good-wish Gold BROOCH, 12s 6d ;
loot. Gold, 25s.
No. 1.
Undies' Solid Gold Long MUEF CHAINS,
Hand Made. Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4;
15ct. Gold. £410s, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Peace Offering Gold Bird and Pearl Set
Leaf, 253;
15ct. Gold, S2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget ”
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s 6d :
15et. Gold, 80s ; 18ct. Gold, 35s.
No. 2.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS
Hand Made. Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s £4 -
15ct. Gold £410s, £5, £6, £7 10s. ’
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6d •
with Raised Flowers each side (Any Name)’
loot. Gold, 15s. Latest Style. ’
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ivy and Knob BROOCH, 25s ;
9ct. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
82325#
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
a-M
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Diamond Double Cut
BROOCH, £2.
tgwgaagaasaaaagggaygaass
No. 3.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3 £3 10s £4 •
15ct. Gold, £4los, £5, £6, £7 10s. ’
Price According to Strength.
T 5
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 3-Bar Gold BROOCH. Pure Diamond.
Double Cut, £3 ss. Very strong.
A. SAUNDERB.
2-Bar English Hall-Marked Gold BROOCH,
Diamond-cut Amethyst, 20s ;
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAuNDEBS.
Solid Gold, Hall-Marked, Eorget-me-Not
BROOCH, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Neat 15ct. Gold, Peail, and Turquoise
BROOCH, £3.
/
r s
i
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVERS,'
Full Jewel’ed. J-plate,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £4 10s.
i n. Solid .Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, 10 '‘Tiineas
£l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
JScf. Solid Gold Pure
Pearl STAR, £3.
Other styles, £4, £5,
£6, £9, £lO.
A. SAtfNDEftS.
Any Name.
Secret Name G old
LOCKET. £1 ;
Pearl and Ped
Stone Set,
15ct. Gold, 30.
w
MI2PAH
CHAEM,
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
size DINKS, 22s 6d.
Plain, 21s, or with Initials,
nicely Chased, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered).
Gold DINKS, 20s
15ct. Gold, 82s 6d
Silver and Gold, 10s;
all Silver, ss.
CALL AND SEE OUR
JEWELLERY EXHIBITION.
A SPLENDID DISPLAY.
OR SEND FOR OUR
1902 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED BOOK,
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
j
Photo Locket
A. SAUNDERS.
New Photo. Gold
LOCKET and CHAIN,
255, 30s, £2 ;
screw top, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
OUR PEACE KE\G.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Diamond and2 Rubier
or Sapphires, £2.
Extra Heavy, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sold Gold Opal Band.
17s 6d ;
3 Opals, 22s 6d ;
loot. Gold, 30s ;
3 Opals, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ARTICLES POST FREE,
Watch Repairs Guarantet d.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 2rs, 30s, £2,
£-2 10s,' £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £o j
Superior duality, £6, £7, £B, £TO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Solid Gold Opal
LINKS, 30s ;
loot. Gold, £2los. Extra strong.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LINKS, very pretty, 12s 6d.
size, 15s and 20k.
Silver, 3s 6d and 4s 6d.
JBct. Gold,
pure five Double-cut
Diamonds, £5 ;
3 Rubies or Sapphires
and 2 Diamonds,
£3 10s and £4 10s.
Larger Diamonds,
£O, £7los, £lO, to £5O.
a. saukv: is.
18ct. Gold, S Opals,
1-Hoop,
£2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s.
(3(%
A. SAtXNDERs.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Extra Strong and
Hea.-??, one or three
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 2 Hearts,
Diamond,
and Ruby, 35s ;
2 Diamonds, £2 ss.
With Name,
Band RINGS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d.
15s ; loot. Gold, 20s
255,; 18ct. Gold, 255,
30s, 355, £2.
For Size, out hole in Cardboard.
„ , J m A. SAUNDERS. _
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers.—9ct. Solid Gold, 5s 6d,
7s bd, 10s each ; 15ct. Gold, 15s: extra heavy, 255; LBct. Gold, 20s;
extra heavy, 80s, 355, Quality of Gold and Finish First-class.
A.
SAVE 25 to 50
PEE CENT.
LEADING ART JEWELLER.
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
815 & % 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite
Railway Station,
SYDNEY,


The Italian ship Anita, built at Genoa in
1548, is reported to have just completed its last
voyage, and is being broken up at Teneriffe, aged
355 years. It was still solid, having been most
faithfully built by old Italian gentlemen with
plenty of time and timber on their hands, but it
was too small, heavy, and slow for modern
requirements. Probably this yarn is a lie, but it
is a very good lie.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
ver’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is, everywhere.
“G.M.” tells a story of his unregenerate
youth :
That Bulletin par. about boys getting whacked for
taking locusts into school reminds me: Swisher was
lecturing on the “ ablative absolute,” and I had iust
stuffed a lolly in my mouth when he said to me— “ Now
George, will you kindly construe the next sentence’”
The lolly was a large one ; I couldn’t speak, and Swisher
asked sweetly : “ What is the matter, George ? Have you
anything in your mouth ? ” I managed to gulp down 'the
lolly, and replied, “ No, sir!" “ You haven’t been eating
any abominable sweet stuff, have you ?” I said I had not
and Swisher shouted : “ What is tha,t paper sticking out
of your pocket?” I shoved it in, and said it was nothin"
but he thrust his hand into my pocket, drew out the
packet of lollies, and threw them on the floor. Then the
other boj's sucked them, while he licked me.
Presently he stopped to deliver a lecture about the
extra-hot compartment in Sheol reserved for Liars ; then
observing that he “ would not shirk his dut v,” he turned
to again. I writhed on the floor in agony, and, to escape
rolled under the press we kept books and things in’
Swisher tried to pull me out, and, as he stooped, pre-
sented such a back view to the boys that Bulpit
left his seat and was just going to give him an
awful smack (so he said afterwards) when Swisher turned
and caught him with his arm raised. Bulpit showed
presence of mind. He promptly asked, “ Shall I pull liim
out, sir?” Swisher said, “ Yes," and Bulpit crept under
the press and made a great show of zeal, saving “ Out
you come!” and so on. Then suddenly he left me and
crept out, saying, “ If you please, sir, I think he is dead ”
Swisher turned green, threw himself on the floor, got me
by the leg and pulled me into the middle of the room in
a jiffy. But I had taken the hint and gammoned a
corpse. Swisher sat down, looking very sick, and Bulpit
ran into the house and told Mrs. Swisher that her husband
had flogged me to death. Mrs. S. ran in with a bottle of
sherry, and when they had poured a glass down my
willing throat, I recovered enough to be able to stand up
and drink a second. Meanwhile, Mrs. Swisher opened
out properly on the old man, assuring him that he was a
cowardly brute, and that he would certainly be hanged
yet for his cruelty. And when Swisher said," “Mv dear,
he told a lie!" Mrs. S. retorted that he himself told
more lies in a day than all the boys put together did in a
month.
That was how Swisher licked me. Later on I licked
Swisher ; but that is another tale.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
From Sydney D.T. (6/l/’O3) :
Sunday-sellinq.— At the Central Summons Court,
Patrick Seeponi (for selling ice-cream), John Maloney
(selling cakes), Alexander M'Donald (selling milk), .John
Uearon (selling matches and milk), Catherine Neilson
(selling flour and butter), David Maroon (selling plums),
Florence Brown (selling sugar, butter, and milk), F lix
Diavolas [unhappy devil] (selling apples), and Carmele
Sidata (for selling milk, bananas, peaches, and potatoes,
two charges) were each convicted of Sunday selling, and
fined 55., with 2s. 6d. costs, in default three days’
imprisonment. Mr. Barnett, S.M., occupied the bench.
The law is no respecter of persons, only of
parsons.
“ Quarter Sessions” on
Js P p ° d I ' Jngllsh plan an assembly of all the
chaT; and r ‘‘ r qU w er ’ the ‘.ke. the
The mustv fl ~°. Ut ! onB are P ro Posed and carried,
ustj affair is a remnant of 18th centurv
“the System "^ndr” 1 En^. and in the time of
Commonweath. 18 pecuhar to Hoba rt in this
The struggle for a crust! Writes ‘ ‘ Esini ” :
A Dialn shnf.omai-if i
house' a /n lately at a hoarding
boarders a band of 'fom- Tf ’i?' blcb mcluded among tlie
whom were bo V s Vhn laM . two of
their keep; a Chea , j a < au-h 6 P f raC^9 a ".V "“thing hut
wholly of razor-paste oeineru 6 ®t°ck-in-tra<le consisted
except on gala or rare ( |avo ’„r \ ham gold scarf P ins -
glass-case lotrerv • 5 a f Ce da l s ’ "hen he ran in addition a
tinrplaver and iis ; concer-
assistants • and a t i > "ftmg da ughter ; two draper’s
working from 10 a tailor’s serving-hand. The Italians,
10.30 pm saved £3>Pin noon ’ and from 8 p.m. until
expenses, ’which fn the cn« after payin « all livin »
getting drunkregularl'v eaclf afi ° ne ° f * he,n "eluded
the treasurer shnuroH * f ternoon. In verification,
Chean Tarwul? me hls Savings’ Bank book. The
andsumsof froin^sin^i 111 eacb Saturday night,
at some race meeting he took fifi'oVd’f ° n boxing Day,
The female palmist reckons^£B
th^% h im S eTlX e hr aSi ° n i Staken ove o r £ sL an o d eda;. b Ai
on a h lidav frnm who was ostensibly
never took less i^ )Urne - a ' ld 80 not 'irking hard,
;«'A MS s
conditions SS for an |-> Tn^ e)WOrkS "" <ler pi ' ecisely the same
(married ,re?« fo per , "; eek ’ The tailor’s hand
lfke » £2 i P6r • We f| C ’ , )ut manages, by working
On thZ « k ® -79 In the busy times, to average £‘l
“onlvfnei ' , 4 res ’t is, indeed, in the palmist’s words
game is the thin7° rkhard ’” Th f confidence-cum-charity
game is the thing. Will anyone lend me a hurdy-gurdy ?
The newly-enfranchised women
N.S.W. should read The Bulletin’s “
for the Commonwealth,” by .lames
Post free from Bulletin office for 71.
voters of
A Policy
Edmond.
WABASH
Expansion
Business
Systems.
Letter Filing
Devices.
Card Index
Systems.
For all
Businesses.
We Systematise your Office Free of Charge.
Write us for Illustrated Catalogue.
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australia.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of BE.LF
CURE, 'will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MEMORY AND SUCCESS
The Secret of Success
Is a Good Memory. . .
Pel man’s System of
Training
Ensures a Good Memory in Five Postal Lessons.
Riasy, Interesting, and Practical. Lost Memories restored—the worst made good—good
Memories improved. No mere theory, hot a genuine aid every moment of the day. Any book
whatever mastered in one reading.
SYSTEM
PELMAN’S SYSTEM
has received the highest commendation from several hundred
leading newspapers throughout England, the Colonies, and the
w hole of Europe.
has called forth thousands of unsolicited testimonials from Pupils
who have found the system easy and interesting, and who testify that
it has brought about a marvellous improvement in their memories.
13?” See Mr. Pelman’s New Pamphlet on “MEMORY TRAINING: ITS LAWS AND THEIR APPLICATION TO
PRACTICAL LIFE,” 72 pp. Sent Gratis and Post Free on application to the Secretary—
PELfIAN SCHOOL OF HEMORY TRAINING,
G.P.O. BOX 402, MELBOURNE.
Head Office: 4 BLOOMSBURY=ST., LONDON.
STAMPS. —Amateur collector desires exchange N.S.W.
for other countries. “ Medicus,” Bombala, N.S.W,
Missing Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of ANDY MILLON,
who left Taihape, North Island, New
Zealand, some 6 years ago, or any friend
knowing his whereabouts, would lie or they kindly
communicate with the undersigned, who will
supply news of beneficial character.
G. N. JENSEN,
Taihape,
North Island, New Zealand.
INTSE
r-nUITJ
&
ye
Lime
Fruit
Juice
Sole Consignees—
EVANS SONS,
LESCHER & WEBB,
Limited.
London & Liverpool.
Agents:
Elliott Bros., Ltd.; J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL ....
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone m Typewriter gtd.
This is a “JUNIOR ITONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
T is well to remember this when discussing the artistic merit of sound reproducing contrivances. There is little
difficulty in reproducing a sound. There is, however, a gigantic difficulty in reproducing good music, and the actual
voices of famous singers. We would ask you to remember that THE GRAMOPHONE made by The Gramophone
and Typewriter Ltd. does this. How do we do it? Why, because we have unlimited capital at our back, and because
we do not hesitate to obtain the services of the finest and most celebrated artistes of the day to sing for us. 'flic better the
artiste the better the song. The public are the best judges in the world of tHe intrinsic value of an article. We are selling
FIVE MILLION RECORDS
per annum and why ? Because our records are real reproductions of these singers. Our catalogue includes records made
by Carusa Plancon, Renaud, David Bispham, Ben Davies, Andrew Black, Richard Green, Joseph O’Mara, Mesdames Calve,
Suzanne Adams, Kirby Lunn, Esther Palliser, Percival Allen, Connie Ediss, and Marie Tempest. Also Dan Leno, George
Robey, Louis Bradfield, and Maurice Earkoa, besides hundreds of others.
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.l
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA— AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
Represented all over
World.
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


TO CURE SUFFERING ANIMALS.
A most useful \ eterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy's Fluid. This
Book contains instructions for curing most
of the aiiments and accidents affecting
Horses, Bogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this BookemmentVeterinary Surgeons
recommend Condy’s Fluid as a certain
cur for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease,Thrush,and Cracked
Heels in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly,
etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in the Foot,
Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy s Fluid is made by Condy and
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware oi Local sub-
stitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price list* gratia.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette <fc Sailing List, with map.
TMOB. COOK & SON,
209 Collins at., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-et, I
SPECTACLES
*
w
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY UADERg
who cannot visit ”
personally, we send,
Post Ffee to any ad.
•tructions and Price List, our
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING' PATENT
By its use you can Test your own sight widdL
teraune for yourself the style and quality ?,/
glasses yeu may need, write (or it to— 7 “ “
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, OpUdaa.
• x r*TTfT '.
Don’t shout”
I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
How?* Oh. some-
«*« i new -me Wilson '
Com crion - sense Ear*
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
\ -they're invis b;e. I wouldn't
know I had them in
only that I hear all right.**-
The W’Uson Ear-Drum' ts
really a substitute for the
..working parts ol the
natural ear. Ha* no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
p. ~ different from any other de-
s pamphlet aent upon request
“ *•%-** t COIm SI., HetP-
J.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The situation in S’Africa now is such that
the Australian has the choice only of being a pro-
Boer or a pro Chow.
George Reid tells a good, large truth :
The creation of an Australian navy is no more incom-
patible with the spirit of fervent loyalty to Britain than
the establishment of forces on land.
Australasia’s beer bill, £3 16s. Id. per
head. Australasia’s public education bill, 11s. sd.
per head. Almost Coghlan persuadeth us to be a
Rechabite.
Chamberlain tells the Boers that they
should forgive their own people who assisted the
British. How would it be if Chamberlain’s
Government forgave Colonel Lynch, just to give
things a start!
Premier John See (rejoicing that N.S.W.
had got a short-dated loan of £1,000,000 at
£4 Is. 6d. per cent, and intending to be sarcastic):
" e hear almost every morning that the country is
going to the dogs ; this is the way in which it goes there.
And therein he spoke the absolute, literal truth.
Jenkins Iscariot, of S.A., who refused to
reply to a request of the Dutch Government for
certain information because the British authori-
ties sent it through the Federal Minister for
External Affairs, has been justly sat upon.
Chamberlain’s department intimates that State
potentates must communicate with it through the
Federal authority ; therefore Jenkins must either
swallow his dignity or be cut off from all com-
munication with the official outer world, which,
for a gentleman who communicates so much,
would be serious.
Belshazzar Irvine and Belshazzar Bent
already begin to see the hand of David Syme
writing, in a Scotch accent, on the wall. This is
how a recent Age leader begins :
There was a hope when the present Ministry had been
formed that it would be one of action. So far, notwith-
standing the large majority it commands in the Assembly,
and unbounded loquacity both inside and outside Parlia-
ment, no practical good has been done in directions
claiming urgent attention.
If the public remembers aright, one of the
authorities who most loudly assured the public
that the Irvine-Bent Ministry was to be one of
action was the Age it-
self. And Syme has been
writing on the wall so
■ften of late years that
eople are beginning to
take little notice.
A WESTERN LEGEND—ILLUSTRATED.
THE MAX BELOW: “ From Queensland! Western
Queensland"
BWAGGIE BILL: “ Yairs.”
T.M.B. : “ This is a sudden change for you.
Where’s your blankets? ”
S.B.: “ Struth!! ”
J. C. L. Fitzpatrick, N.S.W. M.P., makes
a shrewd surmise in the press that the Owe’
Sullivan has gone on a long trip to W. A. so that
he will be absent whilst the Cabinet takes the
inevitable step of shutting down on the loan
boom. The feast is now over, and the day of
reckoning coming. First symptom of the coming
“bust” is a circular from the Works Dept,
calling on roads superintendents to dismiss as
many men as possible.
It is stated, on the authority of a Queens-
land member of Parliament, that the Executive
meeting which finally disposed of the Kenniff
oase—and resolved to hang one brother and life-
imprison the other—consisted of only two Ministers
and the State Governor.
Asked at a recent Queensland election :
“ Do you believe in the reduction of members of
Parliament?” Answer: “Yes, I do.” “You
believe then, that this constituency (a small coun-
try one) should have only half its present repre-
sentation ? ” Collapse of candidate.
Some remarks by Dr. Morrison, the
Chinese correspondent of London Times :
The Chinese, as a people, take no interest in Australian
legislation towards their exclusion. They themselves
place far greater disabilities, outside treaty centres, to-
wards European expansion than the colonies ever raised
against the Chinese.
It really seems as if the blessed bill will
never be quite paid ! Officers of the 4th Vic.
oohentingent are now devising ways and means to
drag their allegedly 18-months’ overdue gratuities
out of the War Office authorities. Yet the war is
over and almost forgotten, and the Hempire is
quite possibly halfway on the road to the next.
There are two great facts just staring the
Q. elector in the face. One is the existence of the
federal franchise, giving every adult a vote ; and
the other is the existence of the State Govern-
ment’s poll-tax. These two things are significant
of much, and if the Q. elector can’t read the moral
they bear he is even a duller animal than he is
believed to be.
After years and years of waiting for private
enterprise to get to work and build the land-grant
Great Western railway, and after renewing the
concession over and over and over again, even
patient Tasmania is weary. A good-sized’ piece
of blue paper has been issued, calling on the
parties concerned to show cause why the farce
should be kept up any longer.
Immigration-lecturer Geo. Randall is
chagrined at being recalled by Q. Govt. It should
heal him to remember that equally great men
Parkes and Dailey, for instance—were similarly
summarily recalled. Parkes and Dailey had
planned an extensive tour, when Robertson
carried a motion in the Leg. Assembly to order
them back at once.
Brisbane Courier—which for 10 long
years has upheld the Continuous Ministry :
The Government is thoroughly discredited, for one
thing, and there is no sign of strength in the Labor Oppo-
sition, for another. Labor led by Mr. Browne seems as
weak and hopeless as the party led by Mr. Philp. Hostile
criticism is the order of the day, and both within and
without Parliament the feeling is growing that a change
is necessary.
,^ r ;x£ alla 2 her ’ RC * B »shop of Goulburn
(N.b.W.), speaking at Crook well:—
R.C.’s didn’t seek or want State aid. They felt in-
dependent and asked no favors. If it came as a rivht
seek*'it lted ’ WeU aDd good ’ bUt hC ' f ° r ° De ’ would n^v er
Which may mean much or little, but is a more
dignified attitude than the crying-for-the-moon
of some R.C. prelates.
Melbourne Herald has dragged the tot-
tering form of poor old Graham Berry into
the glare of public light. In an alleged inter-
view on the present political situation in Vic-
Herald reporter described in
detad the tremulous movements of the
veteran’s lips and hands. The old war-
horse is 81 years of age, and lives quietly
at Balaclava on the annuity grudgingly
and ungraciously purchased for him by
the State, per medium of a Parliament
which committed the unprecedented
brutality of practically stipulating that
the allowance should die with him and
not be continued to his widow ! He is
very feeble, and it was positively in-
decent for the Herald to send a' man
to chase him for opinions on any kind of
a situation. Even in his extreme old ape
Orraham Berry cannot forget his bitter ex-
periences with the soulless Victorian House of
Rich Landlords, and the leading
idea which the reporter ex-
tracted from him was in regard to
the curtailment of the ruinous
powers of that Chamber. “The
one thing needful,” remarked the
old man, “is to make the Leg.
Council aware that when the
people have spoken at a general
election they must give way.” The
finger of the dying man points
the way to Victorian democrats.
The lobbying and log-rolling
over choosing the temporary Senator
to keep Sargood’s seat warm for his
permanent successor is as strong
as if the billet were worth £lO,OOO
a year. Robert Reid, Dow, Peacock
and I ren with are all suggested. The
latest candidate is a man named Smith.
The name seems a trifle familiar, but we
can t locate it just now.
There is no sickly modesty about the Vic-
tonan Employers’ Federation. At last meet-
ing the Executive Council of that organisation
resolved to appeal to the State Parliament to
retrench more vigorously in the direction of old
age pensions, education, and the railways, before
resorting to any increases in taxation.’ Such
amazing selfishness, such brassy indifference to
the claims and sufferings of the necessitous, can
only be properly met by axe or tax.
Part of the English argument in favor of
Australia doubling her present tribute to the
Imperial navy is a suggestion that, failing such
payment, Britain ought to “withdraw her pro-
tection from Australia. As well suggest that
Britain should ‘ withdraw her protection” from
India or Canada. What protection Australia gets
from the mother-in-law country is not due to any
romantic affection, but to solid, cold-blooded
Coheman business considerations. Separation’
when it comes, won’t originate at that end of the
connection.
The closure of Bowen railway is the reply
of the Boodlewraith to that unhappy district for
daring to return a Labor-member and “ pass out ”
Jack Hannear. Bowen line did better the last
three years than the previous three, but then the
Bowenites obediently returned a Ministerialist
• f TT u i i- •
every time Cairns-to-Herberton line is a o.gger
white elephant but he Cairns folk had the savee
£j£MifffiCTK. ,, S2 , £sS:
B j 1 ■. 1 . ,1 r , r 1 n . •
oodlewraith point the fateful finger at various
recalcitrants and bid them Beware !
Victorian Treasurer Shiels gives it as his
TO?.
opinion should Ve ivoril. sometlhng ;lor as there
is hardly an opinion of any kind thit William the
Weathercock has not held at some time in his un-
stable life, he should be a judge of opinions. The
present idea seems to be to cut off as many
pensions as possible on one pretext or another,
and to stop granting new ones, thus letting the
reform die out. If that is attempted Federal old
age pensions will come all the sooner, and a
Federal graduated land-tax will probably supply
the means.
THE NIPPER IN HI WONDERFUL WALK ACROSS
COUNTRY WITH WEIGHTS.
Sydney isn’t so very big after all, but that
doesn’t prevent it having two separate sets of
Single-Taxers—the “ Single Tax League ” and the
'' l Single Tax Army ” ; and the difference between
the two is the difference between tweedledum and
tweedledee. The League part of him waxed
wroth t’other day over the Closer Settlement Bill,
and the scheme for the purchase of large estates
was violently denounced as antagonistic to its
collective stummick. As for the Army part of
him—well, he’s too young for his voice to be
distinctly heard yet.
The newly-appointed Commission on
Federal Capital Sites has started work, with a
secretary, shorthand-writer, messenger, etc., and
goodly travelling expenses. Its work chiefly con-
sists in going round to the different towns, hearing
some lies from biassed witnesses as to the un-
bounded resources of a particular hamlet, believ-
ing none of them ; going on to the next town, for
more lies, then to the metropolis for a rest;
then hearing more lying witnesses at another
town as to more unbounded resources; with
travelling-expenses all the time. Then back to
write a report of which no notice will be taken by
those concerned in making the ultimate choice.
“ The Freetrade Movement in America '’
was the heading of an enthusiastic letter in SM
Herald last week. And then followed the
staggering information that a trade-reciprocity
league proposed holding its first annual conven-
tion at Detroit (U.S.A.), and was going to send
out more than a thousand invitations. The first
convention, be it observed, and a thousand invita-
tions, in a community of nearly 80,000,000 people
—and Heaven only knows how few of them would
be accepted. A stamp-collecting society in
Greece, or a league of ancient and decayed snow*
ballers at Timbuetoo, could get together about as
big a gathering as that.
Until the Inter-State Commission gets to
work, a Department can protect its own
fcstate against the others almost as effectively as if it
had power to set up border duties. Most of the
States have two sets of rates—one for their own
goods, and one for other peoples ; but Westralia
carries the trick the farthest. Some samples, the
prices being for carriage between the coast’and
Kalgoorhe:—
t,. , Local. Imported.
J* mber £l5 9.. £5 0 10
2 5 7 .. 5 0 10
?°*L 17 2 .. 1 1* 3
Lard 2 6 7 6 0 10
Fruit and vegetables (dried) .. 2 6 7 ' 6 010
Dairy produce 2 8 7 " 610 11
This is one of several things at which the gold-
fields are just now busy kicking.
Cables tell that R. W. Hanbury, President
of the English Board of Agriculture, at the Far-
mere Conference now sitting at Leicester, noted
with sudden surprise that the Cora Duty had not
increased the price of bread in the least, and this
in the face of the glaring posters showing the little
maf of the Corn Duty in comparison with the bio-
Free Corn load. Mr Hanbury is said to also be of
opinion that it would be very interesting “ to see
how far it would be possible, without injuring the
home customers, to make foreigners pay on many
articles which are at present sent into Britain
absolutely free.” The surprise of Mr. Hanbury
and his ideas resulting therefrom, are pathetic
indeed. Cobdemsm has become so hoary an in-
stitution of the English, that it is little less than
treason to look into it close enough to find its
defects, but when the bursting of one of its pet
faUames oomes atx>ut without anyone intending to
•• wtK SSSS *°“ ° n,y •*“ d *-p.
Minister Leahy boasts that he entered the-
Queensland Cabinet with a determination to havs
things run on business lines. Yet last session the
g p arliameut didn’t meet until all the voted
fk- xt- • V
, ’ » nn t Sallv dipmui-m
cockshies at various Aunt Hally measures until two
d before XmaB Bve> when the Assembly voted
y three millions in an hour or so. Of coune
S,^t n^o^e'te?£o n ;‘ t mayoO “ idetthUsS
business , one never Jcno^ivs*
Brisbane press loudly complains that the
Federal authorities are losing time by attending
Sat t F hings a wm lL r ruslSlS STffiff'
f That may be - hut t ' ne wall com “ Wlth P° or
sro“5 ro “ * sup, press that passes without comment the
fact that the , St ? Ve 5 al
were so behmd-hand with their
°'T, n ro - Ils that some of the electorates had to use
s ! x mon , tbs old - and 80 d ' sh luchI uch ° ,
La £" t 2 B “ had raana & ed dodge being “bul-
coc e '
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners and the
See-O’Sullivan Ministry do not see eye to eye in a
great many things, and strained relations at pr e .
sent exist. The
Commissioners have
reported against
many of the Owe’-
Sullivan railway pro-
jects, and have fallen
foul of Premier See
in connection with
their retrenchment
scheme Mr. Oliver
is the sttong man of
the triumvirate, and
he has often offended
politicians by point-
ing out that he, and
not they, was re-
sponsible for the
management of the
railways The Com-
missioners 5 term of
office will not expire
for another seven
years, and they are
resolved on adminis-
tering the Railway
Act in its entirety,
and will not tolerate
political interfer-
ence. When their
term of office lately
ran out no on© was
more surprised at its being renewed than the
Commissioners themselves. The See Govt, would
iSk 6 to u niake a , ch » n pe. but did not care to
risk its own skin in the doing of it.
Victorian Lands Minister M‘Kenzie re-
ceived this novel offer from a Melbourne
firm of solicitors, t’other dayWe write on
behalf of Mr. Joseph Induni of Queensland, an
anient advocate of land-nationalisation, who
wishes to give practical effect to his views. Mr
lndum is the owner of a block of land at Spring-
offlr M n lbourne ’ whlch he instructs us to
u V° vernm ent conditionallv upon its
‘£'s • at n ° tlme P art with the fee
simple. Ihe Minister was so astonished that he
wants more information before he considers the
wh»t is the block of land
worth, and who is Mr. Induni ?
This is how Australian affairs look in
Maoriland (extract from Otago Witness) :
hiJ h^n° mnlonWealCh Govern ment —Edmund Barton and
his colleagues —are travelling fast to their doom So
landing 6 of* The f ir latest deed is to Prohibit^
Fn ,i; a E Slx batters from London in Sydney. If
Si^TnanP 6 &** prohibited from landing and
What Ire the^iA 0n V’ What are thin coining to ?
the co6n,es 'or. but to provide an outlet for
the teeming population of the mother country ?
f me think of it, what else are “ the colonies ”
®* ce P t *° Provide an outlet for the teeming
rSW a r nd a , nd (what is equally important
Tf f^ ] f , or L the teeraing hats of England ?
it tree-born Englishmen are to be prevented by a
«fpP ei |- c \f nt; ‘ tariff from sending their hats to an
colony” M is the case in Maoriland,
what la this unspeakable and altogether broken-up
globe coming to ?
The coming N.S.W. Political Labor Con-
ferenee is to be asked to say that a man who has
once opposed a selected Labor candidate shall be
cast for ever into outer darkness ; and it should
not say anythmg of the kind. The party ought
rather to welcome genuine converts—it wants all
1 can get. Even men who have “ ratted ” from
r! m^ y bave he f u right—it may have been
l? L ° Cal J chque . that was wrong-and there
? a f Kt j£ wisdom in welcoming them. No
tune-servers who think they can play
A e part y ou g ht to be taught
can * an d that can be done by refusing
them the party’s nomination. But to shut the
“ d nai i it up is a mistake; the party that
P i P eals “ ? eaaon ought not to deny itself
th*/if rh open ‘K® dooi ‘ ** 14 can be shown that
that is the reasonable thing to do.
A few words from King O’Malley, M.H.R.:
rea P ectab le scoundrel in the Common-
which the criminal institutions
officered inH b - v plundering the people are
aervatUm rhof^ lreCted “? en wbo make the cause of con-
consoired with f""f Auscralian syndicates which
and *rob r v,„ t^.-^ n ,? ! sb boodlers to float worthless mines
atrovin- i,,-tLT ISh widows and orphans, thereby de-
the credit, are ardent conservatives'. All
founded tiijr«?^ eCU F ators who borrowed English money,
MtofttriS? ba f ki - swindled the workers
reaching e * r mngs, and then went bung without
misinir ar ? d s v °ted conservatives, and uncompro-
“ the - Übor P*rty- Ali the gigantic
duced the ‘“moral financial transactions pro-
ouced the present bad times are allies of conservatism.
found! ke I Wo r st . individual who ever
helned r w rott f u in one act, and thereby
quite ab ? ut . tlle groat downfall, is now
ce ris in )J 16d 1U t i A n P 4l "® °f him which he con-
S P \ m i ls S ulnea IfU-topper about the troubles
thiSu^ s'*’ 5 '*’ ***** S»v. brought ou


Another
Wearer’s
Opinion!
See
Below.
THE
CALLAGHAN
■
issßrv
El:
Jig.'--''.
mm
m
■
23/6
A PAIR.
POST
FREE.
DUTY
FREE.
Gentlemen’s Fine
Calf Lace Boots,
Whole Goloshed,
Calf Kid Legs, Made*
to-Order Appearance
price, 22/6 ; post and duty free, 23/6.
Please remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note.]
“Messrs. CALLAGHAN & SON,
“ Dear Sirs,—Enclosed please find cheque in payment of account attached. Your Boots
give; every satisfaction. /
‘G.W.O., Mulwala.”
CALLAGHAN & SON/ 395 ceorce st., sydne/
Another Wonderful Cure by
VITADATIO
Read Mr. JOSEPH COX’S Testimony.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Cox’s Villa, Jindalee, N.S.W.,
November 18th, 1901.
Dear Sir,— I was a sufferer for about 12 years with a
pain in my left side, on the lungs, and I have been under
several doctors’ treatment without a cure. And I also
had a bad cough and spat blood and corruption. The
doctors always told my my liver was wrong and out of
order, and I was subject to asthma, and I had given up
hopes of ever getting right. But on reading of the
wonderful cures of VITADATIO in the papers, 1 thought
I would give it a trial, and to my great astonishment it
worked like a marvel on me. I took it for twelve months,
at the rate of a large bottle a week, and in October
of 1900 two lumps came away from my side,
where I used to have the pains, and I kept on taking
this medicine for a month after and I felt thoroughly
cured. I have not been troubled with it since, and that
is eleven months ago. I am able to do a better day’s
work to-day than I could fifteen years ago. I am 67 years
of age, and I feel it has added years to my life. I am
sending this to you for the benefit of other sufferers, and
you are at liberty to do as you like with it. I am well-
known in Jindalee and Cootamundra districts, being a
resident of 32 years. Anyone that wishes to write to me
about my Illness, I will be only too happy to give them
all the information I can.
I remain, yours gratefully,
JOSEPH COX.
For further particulars ,
■S. A. PAL3IEB,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Do You
Wear a
Truss?
If 80,
TRY
Denyer’s Elastic Truss.
IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture.
PRICES :17 6 S IJiGLB >25 jm Doubls
Send Measure and P.O. Order.
DENYER BROS. 281 TrfeSr"
Opp.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all, Affections of the. Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M. P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2258. 82 KiNG-ST., SYDNEY.
In consequence of the Denaby Main
(Eng.) colliery strike 750 families have, it is
cabled, been already evicted. There is a bad
system in connection with colliery co.’s—a system
just as common in N.S.W. as in England— of
insisting upon being landlord as well as employer
to the miner. The majority of N.S.W. coal-
miners occupy houses built on ground leased at a
small weekly rent from their employers. In case
of a strike, the miner can be struck at with two
weapons—the loss of employment and eviction
from his home. True, so far the power has not to
any extent been used in N.S.W., but it is, never-
theless, a dangerous one.
Sydney s Rev. but unfinancial Treniayne
Dunstan had one chance, and missed it. It was
when minister in Perth. With a man named
Rudd, who lived on the spot, he took up a selec-
tion of 100 acres or more, not 30 miles from Perth,
at the Govt, price of 10s. per acre. They held it
awhile, and then abandoned it A few years later
the Bunbury line went through the centre of the
forfeited selection. It was cut up into town lots,
and Jarrahdale Junction station built upon it!
Half-acre blocks brought £2O apiece, and when
writer left, in ’9O, the place had been called
Mundiyong, and had two pubs, two stores, an
agricultural hall, churches and schools. Neither
Rudd nor the parson had enough foresight
to see that Bigjohn Forrest was bent on connect-
ing by rail his beloved Bunbury with Perth, and
that the line was bound to pass through their
selection.
The Veterinarian.
L
S
v 1
. -..a*
ALWAYS
, CI VES YOUi J
The
Standard
Preparations
of ... .
SALVITIS
RESTORING AND CONSERVING
THE HEALTH OF
Horses Pigs
Cattle Poultry
Sheep Dogs BE s »°" i °
Used by Leading Stockowners.
SALVITIS INDEX of DISEASES
To be had of Storekeepers, etc.
Direct Agents for Sew South Wales—
2. RICH & COHPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
The IVTEIW SHORTHAND (Rgd).
SPEED RECORD PRIZES
WILL BE GIVEN AS UNDER
For 225 words per minute—One Year’s Engagement at
any one of the Studios.
Salary, 200 guineas.
For 210 words per minute—Cash prize, 10 guineas.
For 190 words per minute—Cash prize, 5 guineas.
For 180 words per minute —Cash prize, 2 guineas.
For 160 words per minute—Cash prize, 1 guinea.
For 150 words per minute—Cash prize, £ guinea.
Those over 220 words per minute shall have another
Contest during the month of July, and the Quickest
Writer shall have an additional JBSO in cash, in addi-
tion to the year’s engagement, and such person shall
be called the “Champion of Australia for the NEW
SHORTHAND.”
CONDITIONS OF ENTRY.
Entrance fee for this shall be the £2 2s. charged for
our full course of 21 lessons, and may be paid 2s. 6d.
per lesson for first 16, the next 25., and the last 4 lessons
FREE.
ALL OLD PUPILS may qualify by increasing the
amount already paid up to the £2 2s. standard prior to
June 31, 1903.
MEN, WOMEN, BOYS, GIRLS, are eligible.
Examination Tests will be held in private.
No confusion or excitement. No public gaze or
overstrung nerves. Each chief examiner in Mel-
bourne, Sydney, Perth, Brisbane and Hobart will he
the Judge, and a very fair judge he will be.
The CONTEST will take place at each of our
BRANCHES, and will be a Five Minutes’ speech or
reading of unfamiliar matter.
flelbourne Studio - = 406 COLLINS STREET.
Sydney Studio 7 MOORE STREET.
w. Charlton Hubble, Chief Examiner for N.S.W.
(See page 6.) Branches at Hobart, Launceston, Brisbane and Perth.
y
rk
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark on band inside, as above.
A lusty, middle-aged man, who had been
discharged from the Benevolent Asylum as “fit
for work,” gave a humorous exhibition of his fib*
ness at Melbourne Hospital last week. Cast on
his own resources, the man from the Benevolent
concluded a brief search for work by lying down
upon the footpath in the neighborhood of the
hospital; so he was carried into the casualty room,
where the doctor diagnosed his case. It was what
is known as a galvanic-battery case. The battery
produced immediate signs of animation, followed
by blasphemy and yells. Then the galvanised
patient arose and went for his tormentors, and
the doctor and the dresser fled. After kicking in
a door-panel, and putting some more of the staff to
flight, the angry invalid fell captive to two police-
men, and the law took its course. The man had
created a new sort of offence. He was found
guilty of committing violent assaults after being
batteried.
Melbourne dailies lately spread themselves
at length over the “smart arrest” of a gang of
alleged criminals who were concerned in the
breaking of a Swanston-st. jeweller’s window
early on a Saturday evening. (These brilliant
malefactors took a tomahawk to smash the
window, and stole nothing but a sixpenny bar of
copper got up to imitate an ingot of gold !) This
“daring coup” provided a full column of choice
reporterese, yet not one of the papers noticed the
significant fact, that four ’tecs, on learning the
facts, went straight up to a house in Spring-st.
and arrested eight “ well-known and daring
criminals, all men with long records.” They
were charged with vagrancy next day. A smart
capture which consists in arresting the eight most
adjacent known criminals and charging them with
vagrancy, and not finding anything to connect
them with the crime just committed, doesn’t look
so dreadfully smart after all. It is just like
throwing a brick at the nearest dog.
From a Maoriland correspondent:—
Several papers here have been predicting that the
Speakership, which has been rendered vacant by the
defeat of Maurice O’Rorke will fall to William Russell,
the opulent Hawkes Bay squatter and alleged leader of
the Opposition. Make no mistake, however. Theoretically,
the choice of the Speaker rests with Parliament; but, in
practice, nobody has a chance in this case unless he is the
nominee of our boss, and Seddon likes Russell too well as
the figurehead of an alleged party to offer him the
Speakership. Nobody in Maoriland has contributed more
to Seddon’s successful career than Russell has ; not,
indeed, because he wanted to, for Russell has as haughty
a scorn for Seddon the democrat as for Seddon the
swell-headed Jingo. But Russell’s presence on the
front Opposition benches has given his party
an antediluvian reputation which has damned it
politically. Any Ministerialist manifesting the slightest
sign of independent criticism is practically told by Dick
to cross the floor and range himself under Russell’s
banner, and that, as a rule, ends all criticism, for no
modernised politician would dream of following such a
petrified reaction as Russell. The fact of his being a
huge landowner enables Seddon to effectively pose as the
natural enemy of big landlords, although, in reality, he
is now on fairly good terms with the would-be grabbers
this country. If Russell were removed from the
' leadership of the Opposition, a new party might arise,
for Seddon would then find it impossible to bounce the
really intelligent men of his own party by using Russell
as a scarecrow. Anyone who knows Seddon knows that
he is much too astute to remove Russell from a position
in which he does him such handsome service.
REFORM WITHOUT REVOLUTION.-The
great and particular merit of Hunyadi Janos is
that it relieves without discomfort; in other words,
it effects reform without revolution. This is
because it is the best and safest natural aperient.*
Happy Children.
~ n *^° an assure the future happiness of
ur children . That is a question which is con-
a, V before all but the most depraved parents,
nc an exceedingly difficult problem it presents.
at f c hjld s hfe should be happy is no more than
its natural right, and when from any cause it falls
. th.at condition the circumstance is
pathetically tragic. There is more of habit in
nappmess than many people suspect, and it is
generally found that the happiest children develop
into the happiest men and women. All honor to
those parents who endeavour to secure the future
prosperity of their children, whether by providing
them with superior education, monetary benefit,
or both Yet many parents who do all this and
more will strangely neglect their children’s health,
and so impose upon them the most terrible of all
hies handicaps. Mr. George Matthews, of 93,
Bourke-Street, Sydney, N.S.W., does not
Tffiv 6 mno lm M ake \. Writing on the Ist of
o Matthews says:—“Mother
Heigel s Curative Syrup is the standard remedy in
my household, my wife having found it invaluable
tor treating children’s complaints. I have five
little ones. Whenever one of them develops
symptoms of illness she promptly gives them a
ew doses of that medicine, and it invariably sets
them right in a very little time. My wife first
used Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup for one of the
youngsters who was very ill while teething. She
did so on the recommendation of a neighbour.
Ihe child was fretful and weakly, and appeared
o suffer great pain. After administering the
byrup to him for a short period he became quite
a ditterent child, and is now a strong, healthy boy.
It would appear that this medicine has a great
many uses. Two years ago I contracted indiges-
tion, and had it pretty badly. I suffered from
severe pains in the stomach, was unable to sleep
properly, and used to vomit a great deal on rising
in the morning. I lost flesh and strength rapidly,
and could not work nearly as well as 1 had
previously done. Before this I had always enjoyed
good health, and like many other persons, had a
strong antipathy to physic. My wife, however,
after much persuasion, induced me to try Mother
oeigel s Curative Syrup. As it had proved so bene-
ficial to the children she thought it would be of
equal benefit to ire. In this she was right. The
first bottle relieved me wonderfully, and before the
second was emptied I was cured—in fact, quite
myself again. From that day to this my digestion
has been perfect.”
Richmond (Melbourne) court snent a
whole day trying to sort out the Christmas rows
and shindies of one happy family. When it had
got the thing boiled down this was the sediment
that was left:—
(1) William Hill was fined ss. for saying that his
married sister, Venia Roberts, was a vagrant in a two-
and-elevenpenny hat and a six-and-elevenpenny skirt.
(2) Venia Roberts was fined 10s. for reflections on the
character of her sister-in-law, Ellen Hill.
(3) Elizabeth Muirhead was fined 10s. for saying that
William Hill was no better than might be expected.
(4) William Hill was fined 10s. for saying t hat Elizabeth
Muirhead was worse than might be expected.
(5) Kate Williams was fined 10s. for saying the same
sort of thing about Ellen Hill that William Hill said about
Elizabeth Muirhead.
(6) Venia Roberts was fined ss. for saving the same
sort of thing about her brother’s brother-in-law, John
Wenrnan, that Kate Williams had said about Ellen Hill.
(7) Venia Roberts was fined 10s. for battering John
Wenman.
The bench left off exhausted just as night was
coming on, and the whole day’s crop of fines
hardly paid the rent of the Court.


Banking. Publio Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.-^.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TEBftffS.
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED
KT.S.W.
(flont deplete fl.»fii|. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
I ja CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
■ SYDNEY
*CUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
-THF,-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
800. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. O. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Millbr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299— assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manaerer.
The Bank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
j p canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 260 900 ... £350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting (Jompg.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-L> Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
Th e saving s bank
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £15,000, on Town
Properties ; £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES, and
sums from £5OO to £2OOO at 41 per cent, on Town
Properties FOR FIVE YEARS, WITH OPTION OF
PAYING OFF PART HALF YEARLY.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans up to £2OOO at 4£ per cent. FOR 3H YEARS.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Market-street, Melbourne. _____
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Mebks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John She, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessof, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M ‘Fablank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Fakouuak. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. £2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ... £9576 13 4
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
our No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
s the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
axr. r>. l.
<NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twm.sprpw Stioamor
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday' after Sydney.
Interstate First-Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, IBth FEBRUARY.
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
ABERDEEN
DAMASCUS
NINEVEH
A. Robb
R. McKilliam ...
N. Allan
Noon, Feb. 6
Noon, Feb. 27
Noon, March 20
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & C°’s t ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
hoiiaut,
WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A.3XTXD
&
LINE
via
San Francisoo,
California.
FASTEST ANP BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA )
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., ETD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
COMMISSIONERS OF
SAVINGS BANKS.
»
FIFTH ISSUE
.... OF ....
Debentures for £lOO,OOO,
at 3r Per Cent,,
to nature 30th April, 1908.
To be issued under the authority of the
Acts of Parliament of Victoria,
Nos. 1481, 1722, and 1778.
CONDITIONS FOR TENDERS.
1. Tenders will he receivable at the Commissioners’
Head Office, 29 Market-street, Melbourne, for the whole
or any portion of the above amount until noon on Thurs-
day, 29th January, 1903, when tenders will be opened in
the presence of' tenderers or their agents who may
attend.
2. Each tender must be sealed, addressed to “The
Commissioner of Savings Banks, Melbourne,” and en-
dorsed “ Tender for Debentures.”
3. Debentures will be issued in denominations of £lOO,
or £5OO, as may be desired by successful tenderers, and
applicants must state in their tenders the number and
value of the debentures they desire to receive.
4. Interest at 3j per cent, per annum will be payable
half-yearly on 30th April and 31st October, the first such
payment being due on 31st October, 1903, at the Commis-
sioner’s Head Office, or at any Savings Bank in Victoria.
5. Any tender below £99 per £lOO will not be enter-
tained.
6. Tenderers of the highest premium will have pre-
ference, and to tenderers of even rates, debentures will
be allotted proportionately to the applications as nearly
as may be practicable. Tenders at a price including a
fraction of a shilling other than sixpence will not be
preferentially accepted by reason of such fraction.
7. Any tender received from the Savings Banks De-
partment shall not be allowed to compete with other
tenders, but all other tenders shall have preference.
8. Tenders must be accompanied by a deposit in cash,
or by a bank draft payable to the Commissioners of
Savings Banks, amounting to 10 per cent, of the face
value of the debentures applied for, and if the tender be
accepted in full, or pro rata, the balance must be paid on
or before 31st March, 1903, or may be paid at any earlier
date. Interest at 3J per cent, per annum will be allowed
on accepted tenderer’s lodgments of 10 per cent, and over
from date of receipt to 30th April, 1903, and will be pay-
able up to that date on the issue of the debentures.
9. The deposit of 10 per cent, will be forfeited to and
become the absolute property of the Commissioners in
the event of the balance remaining unpaid after the dates
above specified.
10. Commission will be allowed, only to brokers who
are members of recognised Stock Exchanges, at the rate
of ten shillings per cent, on the face value of debentures
for accepted tenders.
11. Principal will be payable at the Head Office of the
Commissioners in Melbourne.
12. The due payment of these debentures, and of all
interest thereon, is a charge on all the securities held by
and the funds of the Commissioners, under Division 3 of
Part 1 of the Act No. 1481, and is also guaranteed by the
Government of Victoria.
13. Copies of the authorising Acts may be inspected,
and conditions and form of tender can be obtained upon
application at the Head Office of the Commissioners or
any of their Savings Banks.
14. By Section 36 of Act 1481, Section 5 of Act 1722, and
Section 13 of Act 1778, any corporate body, Charitable or
Friendly Society, may invest any portion of the funds or
moneys under their control in the purchase of these
debentures ; and any executors, administrators, or trus-
tees having the power or duty of investing any moneys
may purchase these debentures with or out of such
moneys (unless forbidden to do so by the Act or instru-
ment under which they act) and every such investment
and purchase shall be deemed a due investment of any
such funds or moneys.
By order of the Board,
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General of Savings Banks.
Slst December, 190 S.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
JANUARY 26, FEBRUARY 23,
MARCH 23.
CHEAPEST ROUTE TO LONDON.
Niagara Falls, one of
the World’s Wonders
Visited Without Extra
Expense .
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
TTSB__—-l
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
V
4
*
IWTINT LEATHER 800 ft
GU2ED KiDSfc?
6>+v th+ n»« »««
*«*“*H| t»» »***
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Medical.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion.
THE ONLY Effectual Remedy for Swelling
Blight, Caused from bites of Flies,
Insects, &c.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Free for Asking.
%*#RITE to ua and we will forward you our scientific
» » book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with enero \
strength and ambition once more. Posted free Write
to John Wilson, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S A
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOK MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Tran shipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Innamincka,
Friday, January 23.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, January 31.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Eurimbla, Frid., Jan. 23
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Jan. 30.
S.S. W'arrego, Sat., Feb. 7
Jiest. and Cheapest Jloute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAIMD r\ COMPANY'S
* ROYAL MAIL STEAMERB
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with ths
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. AND a.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
These steamers specially built for the Eastern passenger
trade are fitted with EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR
TROPICAL TRAVELLING. The Saloon Cabins con-
taining two berths only are all on UPPER DECK AMID-
SHIPS, and are large, cool, and fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE.
'safe*
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHCHITIS,
DLARKHIEA, tfec -> bears on
the Government Stamp the nauifl
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS a
Sept. 28, 1895, says;
“If I were asked.whioh single medicine,! should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CRA.IG & AITKERT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOO 1
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Auckbbs.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Mclbournt


'l'll Try IV
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.B -W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUITS TO ORDER.
A B a matter of comparison, before ordering Your
SUfTS, write to . . .
CHARLES GILBERT, tha Leading: Tailor,
Queen Street, Brisbane . . .
for Patterns of NEWEST SUITINGS and SELF-MEA-
SUREMENT FORMS, and compare the value of his 50s
SUIT TO MEASURE (carriage paid to any address) with
what you can get in either SYDNEY or MELBOURNE;
and if you cannot see the advantages he offers, you must
be blind in one eye and deaf in the other.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
55., P. 0.0. or stamps.
8. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
Just what you need '
for
Indigestion
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets.
Price, 1/6
Indigestion results from taking too much
food or some article of food of difficult
digestion. There is a feeling of distress and
sometimes severe cramps of the stomach,
nausea, vomiting, and sometimes purging,
but most often constipatiofi..
The vomiting is beneficial as it relieves the
stomach of the indigestible food, and 'when
the bowels remain normal and there is no
cramping pains of the stomach, no medicine
whatever is required. All that is needed is
to let the stomach rest, take no food until
hungry, and then only a small amount of
milk toast, until the stomach is strong enough
to digest other food which should be taken
sparingly at first. When there is constipa-
tion, two of Chamberlain’s Stomach
and Liver Tablets should be taken to
move the bowels, and one tablet each follow-
ing day for three or four days until the
bowels become regular. If Chamberlain’s
Stomach and Liver Tablets act two freely
on the bowels, take only one tablet every
other day.
NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chajnber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon
receipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 124
ium
mm.
Si'i
AMERICAN
“HANN”
HAMMOCKS
The Acme of Comfort.
Instantly convertible from Sitting- to Reclining Position.
Holds its full width at all times. Has adjustable arms
and padded head-rest. A Swinging Arm-Chair, conform-
ing to the body, and rests one all over. Made of Fancy
Striped Duck, strong enough for heavy people. Size,
7ft. x 31in. The “ Hann ” Hammock packs small enough
to be sent by parcels post; we, therefore, pay carriage to
any State in the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
PRICE—No. 1 (without fringe) 17/6
No. 40 (with handsome fringe) .. .. 21/-
No. 60 (with valance and fringe .. .. 267-
Orders should be addressed—
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 Collins-St., flelbourne.
The “ Enterprise ” ==
Rubber Massage Roller
Makes, Keeps
and Restores
Beauty in Na-
ture’sown way.
The cup-shaped teeth have a
suction effect on the skin that
smooths out wrinkles, rounds out
the beauty muscles, and gives per-
fect circulation of the blood.
It is so constructed that it treats
every portion of the face and neck
perfectly, even to the “crow’s
feet" iu the corners of the eyes.
Price of Roller - - - *■
(with FREE Sample
Jar o' “SKIN --
FOOD")
4/6
Post
Free.
rnmmm
Box 133, Q.P.O.
THE ENTERPRISE CO meub.
When ordering please mention this paper.
THE OWL
CUT-
RATE
DRUG CO.,
Manufacturing and
Dispensing Chemists*
Especial attention is devoted to the treatment of Heart, Kidney, and Liver Troubles. Testimonials from all
parts of Australia.
SOLE AGENTS FOR—
Dr. Clarkson's Re-Invigorator.
A Concentrated, Vitalising', NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE, and
BLOOD STIMULANT. We still offer £lOO for any case we
cannot cure. PRICE, 7s. 6d. PER BOTTLE, 3 BOTTLES £l. Post Free to any Part of Australia
Electric Belts,
RESTORE THE WEAK, REFRESH THE STRONG, REVIVE THE DEPRESSED,
ACT LIKE A CHARM. Reg-ular Price, One Guinea. Cut Price, 10s., Post Free.
BSg' Every Person should wear one of these Belts.
Pyramid Pile Cure.
A trial is all we ask. Its merits as a curative agent will then be recognised.
Price, 3s. 6d. per box, or 3 for 10s. ; postage 6d. extra.
FITS, EPILEP.—A Sure Cure for Epilepsy in all its forms. Write for particulars.
Note the
Address :
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
227 ELIZABETH STREET,
Opposite Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
C. P. FINCHAM, Ciikmist.
THE PIANOLA
"A
*[\A
rOy
£
0 O'
iw.
m
ri
What
It
Means
To
You
It will make a player and a cultivated
musician of every member of your family.
It will enable you to play your piano,
although you may never have played one
note in your life.
If you. will write us we will mail you
free a catalogue explaining how.
Ask for Catalogue “ B.”
Sold on Moderate Monthly Payments for
£65, or £6O for Prompt Cash.
Henry M. Birge & Co
323 George Street, Sydney;
185-187 Collins St., Melbourne.
■
as
m
m
M
m
m
m
SZ
m
m
m
mm
jimp
V.
1
I
m
m
I
jitiite
v-
Vo*
V,
mm
mm
1
“ZITA” (Regd.) ADJUSTER
GIVES that charming dip-front or long waist effect now so essential
to well-dressed woman. It can be put on instantly and adjusted
to any depth. There are no spikes. The wearer will be surprised
at the extraordinary difference lengthening the front of the waist makes
to the figure. Never have results so striking been achieved by a device
so simple. , T MA KES YOUR WAIST LOOK SMALLER.
Size 1 for waists up to 24 in. Size 2 for waists above 24 in.
If unable to obtain from your Draper, send Money Order or English stamps for 18d. to the Manufacturers
W. PRETTY & SONS, Ltd. (Dept. 2 ), Ipswich, England.
Don’t wait for This!
ARE YOU BALD ?
Let me examine your scalp, and I will tell you whether
or not you can be cured. The great majority of those
who are bald CAN be cured, and if I undertake your
case I will make a small charge for treatment in addition
to the cost of CAPILLA used.
GAPILLA HAIR TONIC.
If this Preparation is rightly used it will produce the
result I claim—it will make your Hair grow. And if
you will call on me I will convince you.
PAPILLA HAIR TONIC is obtainable at all Chemists—2/6 per bottle
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Sole Proprietor and Inventor, 164 Fitt Street, Sydney.
A Johannesburg (S’Africa) resident writes:
Things are so bad in S’Africa in general, and here
in particular, that there’s no need for anybody to exag-
gerate the distress and the cost of living—as per recently-
arrived Bulletin. I have been in “ Jewhannesburg ” for
many months, and have also seen a little of other parts
and I have not found every other man asking me for
“ two bob "to get a meal. In all large towns a certain
percentage are always ’‘stiff,’’ and this place is no
exception. I certainly have found men wanting a
“ sprat or a bob,, but that’s the case every-
where. As for living, meals are not “two bob,”
unless inland, say 100 miles. Unless one wishes to act
the swell, good board can easily be had here for 275. 6d.
per week, or board and lodging for £2 a week. For ali
that, however, there will be great distress here before
long, unless things make a move. Too soon yet, as
most new arrivals were compelled to produce £lOO before
they could get a permit, and many here now wish the
sum had been £lOOO They are now simply wearing out
shoe-leather lobking for work, and “eating their heads
off.” When the few pounds they brought with them are
expended—then for the distress. It was generally under-
stood that the ex-Boer-killers were working on the
mines here for 6s. per day and board, and great
was the blasphemy of newly-arrived Australians
when they heard such was the case. But it now
appears that these men were not getting board !
And what will some of your howling jingoes say when
they are told that men work in the mines here (and they
are no catch to work in) for nothing. The system here is
that, if a man wants to learn, he can get a start for a
month or six weeks, working for nix and paying for
his own “scoff.” If, at the end of that time, he
is competent to run a machine and there is a
vacancy he goes on pay. Have known competent
miners take this learner’s job on in hopes of getting
a paid job, work two months, and then not get a start.
And why should they, when the mine-owners can get
men to work for nothing? Things are expected to make
a move here after the new year, as the capitalists have
decided to let the work to Kaffirs on the “ task system,”
thereby—so they say—allowing the Kaffirs to make an aver-
age £2 10s. per month, instead of 30s. as at present rate of
pay. Ido not think the Kaffirs will rush the new system,
and, before Cohen and co. are done with this Kaffir
strike, they will probably have to pay the ante-war wage
—£3 10s. to £4 per month—in order to get sufficient
“boys" to work the mines full swing. But cheap
labor Cohen is bound to have. Whether it is
going to be Italian, Chow Tor Kaffir, time and
Chamberlain, Milner and co. will tell. As for trades,
there are many more tradesmen of all sorts here than are
required. P.S.—You cannot warn the workers of Aus-
tralia in too strong terms against coming here. I don’t
expect you to publish the above, but you may cull some-
thing out of it. Every word is true.
What Australia fought for: Cheap labor for
Cohen. The Bulletin knew that long, long ago.
In Hungary, so it is announced, no lady
aged less than 40 years is henceforth to be
employed as a barmaid, and if it. were also
ordained that the whisky must be at least as old
as the barmaid, Hungary would be a place worth
going to. Yet. eves as it stands, the idea has
good points about it. Life has many things to
offer to the woman under 30, but very few to the
one above 40; and it is a kindly action to offer
her the chance of being a barmaid. When she
begins to be unfit to stand close scrutiny with the
naked eye it is a fair thing to commence inspect-
ing her through the bottom of a glass instead.
Moreover, the new arrangement is an inducement
to woman to look her best at a period of life when
she mighty otherwise begin to leave her frock
unbuttoneo at the back, and wear her hair side-
ways, and become a blot on the landscape.
Young women, as a rule, button up their
frocks carefully for other reasons, but elderly
ones often need an inducement. Many a
lone female who finds at 38 that life is a
failure, and who would otherwise drop into
living anyhow, wearing her hair anyhow, and
taking her meals without a table-cloth, would
brace up if she knew that a chance of qualifying
for a good billet and a new start in life was only
two years ahead. If there are enough public-
houses in Hungary it will become in time a land of
plump, well-preserved, presentable middle-aged
ladies, many of them widows, whose arms —if they
are not too hairy— will look nice as they reach up
for the bottle.
Almost, if not quite, the coldest thing that
has happened to the Jewhannesburg millionaires
is th,s statement, by Joseph Chamberlain, re the
wnole Transvaal mining system
There are new mines, which under the old system
Ducame the property of private speculators in circum-
stances which would be impossible under a well-ordered
profit n s'? ItT s n th l i h hafc " th ® reaBon for these antio
f’J", 7, 18 th 7 b y on e means or another the original
owner of the mine became possessed of it foracontri-
S n ate Which was altogether inadequate. I
nope that, at all events, we may put an end to that, and
e frn^ V e f niand f ° r tbe benefit of the State a fair
return from all future development of the country.
This very flat statement that the old Republican
government was too easy-going, and let the Out-
lander boodlers grab things too cheaply, is chill
com tort for the gang of thieves who engineered
the agitation that led to the war on the plea that
they were a shockingly over-taxed community.
JNow they learn that they weren’t taxed so much
as they should have been, and they find the news
beastly sudden.


FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
BTJILT ON HONOR
That is to say, in construction, nothing hut the very finest selected materials are used. The bearings
caps, cones, balls, the pedals, saddle and handle bars are all of the highest possible grade.
RED BIRD BICYCI.ES
V have, for the above reasons, established a reputation which places them on top. DON WAiiEER
Champion of Australasia, rides a RED I'IRD. Supposing you write and ask his opinion of them. ’
adohess GOOLD BICYCLE CO„ 64 King-st., Sydney.
Light and Dark.
Day and night, sunshine and shadow, are not
more different from each other than a healthful
from a sickly woman. The woman who suffers
from ill-health casts
a shadow on her
own happiness and
the happiness' of
others. She cannot
help it. Those who
suffer cannot smile and
sing. 111-health in
women is usually trace-
able to disease of the
delicate womanly
organism. Many
women have been restored to happiness by the
Worse’s Indian Root Pills; they
establish regularity, heal inflammation, purify
the blood, and keep the bowels, liver, and kidneys
m perfect working order. The stomach is kept
clean and pure ; the food being perfectly digested,
the body is nourished and strength increases. Dr
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect and
? O TI° r biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, headaches, sallow complexion, liver and
JndTnrflm t i les ’-i piles ’. pim t? les ’ boils and blotches,
nnH !hl f f 7i a eal I u? DtS ' , Put U P in amber bottles,
and the full name blown thereon.*
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
This year threatens to bring the Tote Bill to
pass in Victoria, if not in N.S.W. That the tote in either
State will ensure it for the other a while later is an abso-
lute certainty. Practically the two States are one as far
as Isaac Moses is concerned, and he is now defending his
last stronghold with his faithful ally, the parson, fighting
at his side for the good cause. Moses personally is not
much of a visible fighter ; nevertheless he works hard,
and is responsible for most of the impudent fictions which
his reverend friend fires off, and which have hitherto
been effective in silencing those uninformed people with
whom the word of a shepherd availeth much. No reform
has been more untruthfully argued against than the
totalisator. The parson has a stock of misstatements to
draw upon. He never wearies of the old, old allegation
that petty larceny and embezzlement have increased in
South Australia under the evil inducement of the betting
machine. The Chief Commissioner of S. A. police knocked
this lie into smithereens years ago, but the statistics
wherewith he smithereened it were coldly ignored by
Rev. Obadiah. As a matter of fact, since the tote
came, there has been a decrease in the number of
peculating shop-boys and clerks in S.A. The plunging
punter used to plunge into a sea of credit and come to
grief. He lost more money than he had ever dreamed of
losing: he stole money to meet his obligations and went
on stealing to put himself straight again. The Tote gives
no credit. Nobody can hope to make a recovery “on
tick ” —with the Tote. Then there is the lie about
Chaffey Baker having recanted his faith in the machine
after he had been its champion. He didn’t recant. He
re-affirmed his belief by advocating the repeal of the
original Tote Act and supporting an amended Act where-
by the use of the machine was restricted to genuine
racing clubs, and from that time forward the Tote has
been, in Chaffey Baker’s own words, “an unqualified
success from nearly every point of view.” The right Bill,
not the wrong Bill, is the one that would be copied in
those States where Ikey Mo still continues to skin the
lamb.
Then there is the alleged increase in the number
of punters—the growing demoralisation of womankind
owing to the fact that a woman who wouldn’t bet with a
bookmaker will boldly apply for a Tote ticket, and all the
rest of it. This is a favorite fiction with the parsons be-
cause it doesn’t admit of statistical contradiction. Every-
body who moves in the society of the sinful knows that the
female portion of a racecourse crowd in N.S.W. and Vic.
gets all the gambling it wants under present conditions,
and would not be tempted to risk another shilling, even
if a tote were fixed in front of the grandstand and an
agent came round for orders before every race—
because it hasn’t another shilling to spare. The
average woman has precious little money to play with.
When it happens to be her own money, in the sense that
its loss would be a real calamity to her pocket, she gazes
steadfastly at each half-crown before letting it go. When
she is merely enjoying her gamble at the risk of a man,
he fixes the limit of her losing capacity, tote or no tote
As for the purely parsonic assertion that young
lads of previous good character are lured to destruction
by the tote, it seems to have been put into Obadiah’s
mouth by an unconverted citizen who was pulling
Obadiah’s leg. Scores of boys on the racecourse, and
hundreds of boys off it, unhappily, bet directly with book-
makers, large or small. The tote is forbidden to take
money from boys. Also it is calculated and intended to
bring “ bookmakers’ prices” into contempt, and make it
impossible for the swarms of city Ikeys to earn a living at
their trade, consequently the tote is a good friend to the
boy, and every gentle shepherd ought to know this. But
the shepherd walks in darkness because his leg has been
pulled. Ignorance—crass, pretentious ignorance —is
what’s the matter with the holy men who battle for I.
Moses—in the interests of public morality, as they sup-
pose.
Assuming the totalisator to be an institution of
the near future in N.S.W. and Viet ria, nothing remains
for right-thinking sinners but to see that the racing
clubs make the best possible use of their privilege. The
Queensland Turf Club mee'ings last Boxing Day and
New Year’s Day brought discredit upon the machine.
Prizes were small, sport poor, whilst the club scooped 15
per cent, of the money (£5145) invested in the tote. Al 5
per cent, commission is too much to deduct, even if half
of it be allotted to tbe public charities. The larger the
percentage of deduction the greater the number of Ikey
Mo.’s who can compete against the machine by laying
its odds. A tote, working for the best inteiests of every-
body concerned, should stop not more than 10 per cent,
of the receipts.
• • * •
Joe Thompson, the modest ex-Australian bookie
(he states that men like himself can only hope to succeed
in England by “ merit and civility ”), has been repeatedly
asked the question—“ What do you think of the
totalisator?” It goes without saying that Joe sternly
disapproves of the machine. He thinks “it undoubtedly
tends to increase gambling and to bring about an equality
in turf matters , which is dangerous.” The Bulletin
makes the parsons a present of Joe Thompson’s profes-
sional antipathy to the tote. Let the reverend brethren
take Joe to their collective bosom as one earnestly
desirous of diminishing gambling. And having hugged
him in that capacity, let them embrace him again as an
out-and-out Tory who protests against a democratic
innovation. The tote puts the little holiday punter on
equality with the professional backer and racehorse-
owner as regards the odds, whereas the bookmaker lays
his longest odds to the inspired “ sharps ” and his
shortest odds to the “mug” public. Therefore, it is
the Lord’s will that the parsons should oppose the tote.
He hath spoken by the mouth of His servant Joseph.
* * • •
Some big tote dividends' were gathered in M.L.
during Xmas and New Year holidays. Largest (£125 165.)
came through Bulawayo, winner out of eight in second
Hack Handicap at Dunedin meet. Agrapus settled seven
in Auckland Nursery Handicap, and 26 investors got £53
Bs. each. Vesta, beaten by Baltileen in Ladies’ Bracelet
Handicap at Christchurch trot, returned a second horse
whack of £24. Would Mo. have laid tens against either
winner named, and what chance does he ever give a
backer of “collecting” on a second horse? “Place
books”—(extremely rare nowadays)—never lay better
than a fourth of the odds, which in Vesta’s case might
have meant £2 10s.
• • » •
One big M L bike club is trying to get the right
to use the tote at its meetings. But the number of tote-
permits to be issued by Government is regulated by Act
of Parliament, and all available are wanted by racing and
trotting clubs. Indeed there aren’t enough licenses to go
round, and many clubs have to toddle along without one.
• * » »
Monti, the batten-leaper (whose first fall cost
W. G. Gordon, the popular Vic. country jockey, his life,
at Rosebrook races, on New Year’s Day), had started in
32 batten races and a dozen steeples, and was never
known to even rap a jump before he fell so disastrously.
Stud-horse Bend ’Or, who dropped down dead
t’other day (pity that; the cablernan can’t find matters of
greater pith and moment to write about), was a sensa-
tional Derby winner in his time. The late Fred Archer
rode “ the finest race of his life ”on Bend ’Or. Robert
the Devil, an undoubtedly better horse, should have
beaten the popular favorite, but Archer, not the gee-gee,
managed to do the trick on the post. A great jockey was
Archer, as jockeys went then-a-days. Now that the sys-
tern of race-running has changed, a resurrected Archer
would probably be a rider of no consequence.
• • * •
There is again talk of an agitation for a ‘‘free
flat ”at Bandwick racecourse. If the A.J.O. monopoly
had not such a strong “ pull ” In the Legislature, its
tenure of Randwick course would have been Tong ago for-
feited. The ground is just as much public property as Hyde
Park, the City Bowling Club’s green, or that other illegally-
monopolised Sydney area, the Agricultural Ground, and
is vested in the A.J.C. in trust for certain definite pur-
poses. Necessary conditions of the trust are a carrying
out of those purposes and (arguing from equity and from
common custom in regard to other racecourses) a free
fiat. Both conditions are flagrantly ignored. Some day,
perhaps, an honest Government with no financial interest
in the A.J.C. will make a change : but there is not much
hope of it at present.
• • • •
Onkaparinga (S.A.) Racing Club, whose meet-
ing is advertised elsewhere in this issue, has a course
about 20 miles from Adelaide, and holds a meeting
but once a year, yet nevertheless commands most
spirited support. It had on Easter Monday last an
attendance of 20,000. The club also holds the Australian
single-day totalisator investment-record, £25,000; and
has provided bigger stakes—£27so—for a one-day meeting
than any other country racing club in the southern
hemisphere. The club’s “ steeple" conditions are excep-
tionally liberal.
* • • •
“Punt”: Purser, though unquestionably a good
sprinter, seldom runs well with a light weight; conse-
quently he might be worth following in welter races
only at forthcoming Sydney T.C. meeting.
* • • *
Bar One seems to be a sour-tempered horse,
judged by his bad display last Saturday, when he lagged
behind at the outset and refused to do his best or go
straight towards the finish of Rosehill Handicap. His
half-brother, Marvel, generally tried to get to the end of
a race or track-gallop as quickly as he could.
• • • •
Looks as if newly appointed N.S.W. stipendiary
stewards are going to prove just as wooden as the
honorary brand. “ Stiff ’uns ” and reversals of form are
as thick and glaring as ever, but never a move is made.
There were some glaring cases at Rosehill the other
day—notably that of two nags who shaped as well as
they did badly the Saturday before at another meet-
ing. Comparatively poor showing in the big thing of
the day by a horse that had won a similar race easily the
week before called for inquiry—especially as Mo. opened
up taking 6 to 4 about him and finished laying evens
without any extra weight of money going on the others.
January Handicap supplied an instance of grossly stiff
running, but aggressive as it was, the stipendiaries
never moved.
• * * *
During English flat-racing season, closed Nov.,
Australian-bred Carbine’s stock gathered in 41 races,
worth £22,123. Persimmon’s get, with 16 wins, made
£36,810, and topped the list—ex-bookie Sievier “ Sut-
ton's” Sceptre brought £23,137 of this through six suc-
cesses. Carbine’s best winner was Fowling Piece, who
scooped five races. Sievier heads the winning owners
with £23,686.
* • * *
The cycling boom continues in full blast, and
Sydney Cricket Ground saw 50,000 people present during
Saturday afternoon and Wednesday and Monday nights.
Racing at night is a picturesque business, and though it
is hard to distinguish the colors and numbers of the
riders, and the scoring figures, like most other things
belonging to Sydney 0.G., are small and mean and
practically invisible, the glimmer of the many thousand
lights, the grandstands silhouetted in multicolored fire,
and the changing chameleon-like tints of the crowd as
the women in their pinks and greens and blues and helio-
tropes wander to and fro, make up an exhilarating
picture. During some of the races the whole of the
lights excepting those illuminating the greenish-tinted
track are put out, which adds greatly to the effect,
and makes the view of the race much more complete.
Altogether the great cycling carnival, which ended
Wednesday this week, reflects great credit on the N.S.W.
League of Wheelmen. It has been splendidly managed,
and well officered.
* * * •
In the fourth heat of the Mile Cup (Wednesday
last), through one of his shooting efforts failing, Taylor
nearly came a cropper, but recovered himself marvel-
lously, streaked away like the wind, and just pipped
Payne on the post. In the First-class Handicap Mile,
limited to 12 of Australia’s best, Taylor and Don Walker
conceded distances up to 80yds. The thing was a
gift to Taylor. Walker failed to show prominently at
any time during the evening, and, in the third heat of
the League Oup, went down by inches to Maorilander
Chalmers. The only bad accident of the season hap-
pened that night, when Gordon fractured his skull, with
three others spread-eagled around him. He is now ap-
parently recovering
The beating of Major Taylor, on equal
terms, by W. M'Donald, of W.A., in the first
heat of the semi-final of the League Cup, at
Sydney Cricket Ground, on Saturday, was a
picturesque sight. The other competitors were
Chalmers, of Maoriland, and Sheehan, of Vic-
toria. The distance, one mile, meant three
times round the S.C.G.’s ridiculous course.
With one lap to go, Chalmers was leading, with
M'Donald right on him, and Taylor third. At
the Smokers’ Stand M‘Donald went to the
front, and Taylor gave a terrific leap and
shot right past the Westralian. When they
came up against the stiff wind at the N.E.
corner of the ground, the pace fell off. Taylor
seemed to weaken, and Chalmers passed him.
Opposite the Members’ Stand Taylor came
again like lightning, and, though Chalmers
reeled away in front as fast as if he was a big
loan being expended on public works, the
black shot past him. Then the great audience
sprang to its feet, and, with ten thousand
people cheering madly, the Westralian made
his final effort, whirled past the leaping black,
and flashed past the judge more than half a
length to the good, with the American brud-
der careering helplessly behind.
* • « »
Taylor’s failure to catch Pye in the first
heat of the First-class Handicap was no dis-
grace to him. Pye had a start of 40yds. in
half-a-mile, and with a half-miler like Pye it
was simply an impossible task. The darkie
rode a splendid race and did all that a man
could do, but was badly beaten.
» • * •
On Monday night Taylor wiped out
the disgrace of M'Donald’s beating. In the
Centennial Mile fifth heat and final he went
through his field like fire through stubble.
The final was won in 1.57 4-5, a fresh Austra-
lasian best, with C. S. Orr only a length be-
hind. Final of the Summer Wheel Race (£100)
was won by New England footballer Curley.
Gudgeon qualified to meet Walker on Wednes-
day night to decide who should oppose Taylor
in three mile heats the same evening for an
undivided prize of £lOO.
Not generally known that brilliant pedaller
Don Walker is an expert boxer, and has a grip which
even a Sandow student might envy. Don’s success on
his Red Bird has been phenomenal. During this season
commencing Sept. 1 he has, in heats and finals, passed
the post a winner 51 times. Don rides with 6J inch
cranks, 94 gear, a 22-inch frame, and half-drop handle-
bars. The success of such men as Walker, Martin and
Forbes on their Red Birds is conclusive evidence that the
All Red Wheel is an honest Jigger, and so built that ex-
ceptional pace can be got out of it.*
• • * •
The Germans in S. A. have a picturesque custom
of shooting for the “ kingship ” in their townships in the
Adelaide hills. The chief one on New Year’s Day, at
Lobethal, was won by J. T. Lake, who happens to be the
winner of the King’s Prize in Sydney. Being last year’s
“ King” of Lobethal, he had to be escorted to the ground
by a procession, and he had the unusual experience of
going back with the regalia still upon him. The com-
petition is open to all comers.
* * * •
" E.D.” : Re “ Splash ”on swimming (10/l/’O3).
Side-stroke has not been used by top-notchers publicly in
the Commonwealth for past four seasons. I applied the
double-over-arm stroke locally (N.S.W.) much in the same
manner as your other correspondent does the “crawl.”
He asserts “ Turns ” Cavill introduced it. He might
have—in his own bath. The Island boy Wickham
“ crawled ” at Bronte seasons ago, and more neatly than
Cavill is ever likely to. And the method is undoubtedly
prehistoric. Vila Harbor (New Hebrides) boys use it
exclusively, and they never heard of Cavill and co. My
assertion re Leo and other side-stroke champions “ crawl-
ing ”is right. I saw Leo in his palmy days deliberately
turn on to his stomach, stiffen out, and “ crawl ” —though
then we never used that term. Any moderate swimmer
can double-over-arm prettily if he takes the time and
trouble, but never skim through the water as neatly
and gracefully as Lane. The swimmers who visited
Newcastle at the time named in my previous note swam
solely side-stroke. In their own words they “saw
what a grand thing the crawl was for polo,” and adopted
it. Therefore it was to Newcastle I gave the credit of
popularising the speedy method of swimming, and those
visiting swimmers the credit of its introduction to
Sydney.
* • » •
Hundred yards’ swimming supremacy of N.S.W.
—virtually Australia—will be decided at Goulburn, Mon-
day next. Dick Cavill will start, but it is doubtful if his
hand is strong enough to give him a fair chance of getting
near his own Australian record (59sec.), accomplished a
week or two before the accident. That good sprinter,
Cecil Healy, threatens most danger. Saturday last he
whipped the young South Sea islander, Wickham, by
nearly two yards in 1.1 5-10. and Wickham had previously
proved himself second only to Cavill, whom he pushed
very close when they met over the “ hundred.”
• * * »
Battle for Australasian bantam supremacy
between Queenslander Condon and previously unbeaten
Sydneyite Peter Toohey drew a crammed house to Sydney
Golden Gate A.C., Saturday night. The atmosphere was
thick enough to cut. Fight was also of a sultry nature
during a struggle that lasted more than an hour. Toohey
looked like going through his man for several rounds,
and they bumped the boards alternately and came smil-
ing for more. Condon’s grit was conspicuous, as he got
the worse of things mostly, but though near annihilation
on many occasions, he preserved a defiant front. Rounds
13,14, and 15 were particularly torrid for Condon, and
how he weathered them mystified close watchers. In the
17th, the Queenslander was unquestionably the stronger
of the pair, and dealt out such a violent time to Toohey
that the latter couldn’t come again. Condon is a born
fighter, who’ll take a lot of beating before he is absolutely
done.
* • * •
Once-mighty thumper John L. Sullivan recently
went through New York Bankruptcy Court so that he
might accept a show engagement at Boston, where he
owed 450d01. for clothes. Liabilities were 2600d01., and
assets the 66d01. suit he wore. He is said to have got
through a million dollars in his time. Talking of
his insolvency, he is reported (on probably unreliable
authority) to have remarked : “Oh, well,what’s the difs.
Sure, I’m a bankrupt. Ain’t thousands of prominent
men bankrupt? I ain’t got no time to bother with
creditors. No prominent man has. They chase yer
round the ring till the’r great country puts a foul on ’em,
and throws ’em out with a bankruptcy paper. That’s
what’s happened to me creditors. They’re counted out.
See ? ”
* * • *
Cripps, footballer and fighter, engaged the
“ Wagga Cyclone ” Lynch at Sydney National Sporting
Club in the presence of 1200 spectators. The disturbance
from Wagga never had the slightest chance of winning,
but a big hunk of the audience barracked for him con-
tinuously, and he fought with great grit and de-
termination. He stood a frightful battering for
ten rounds, and then Cripps went off to collect
the lucre. Maroney and Murphy provided an in-
teresting curtain-raiser which only lasted 1J minutes,
when out of a whirling indistinctness Maroney suddenly
flopped heavily to the floor and remained there, heedless
of the droning voice of the referee.
W. M'DONALD, the Westralian Cyclist, who beat
Major Taylor, at Sydney, in a scratch mile,
Barroni & Co., Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
The Denny Maloney-Mat Mitchie scrap at
Sydney Gaiety last week was fairly vicious. Moloney
played the rushing steam engine, and Mitchie responded
hilariously. Occasionally they cuddled up, and twining
themselves round one another, rolled through one rope
and over another to the great joy of the well-filled house.
Moloney charged with his head down, and failing to butt
Mitchie, pulled up suddenly, sprawled, sprang up and
tried to hit with both hands in three directions at once
It was not a boxing contest, nor was it a fight. It was a
wild, woolly scrap, a mill, and a rough-and-tumble till
in the ninth round, Mitchie with a mighty effort hurled
Moloney to the boards with a crash and was disqualified
for fouling—which was absurd. The whole thing from
start to finish was a foul.
Backers of png. favorites have been having a
parlous time lately. Snowy Sturgeon, 3to 1 on, was
walloped by Soldier Thompson, and next night Queens-
lander Booth, 3 to 1 on, went under to Heckenberg.
Cocker Tweekie, 6 to 4 on, was beaten by Hiscutt owing
to a distinctly bad decision, and on Saturday night
bantam Peter Toohey, 6 to 4 on, fell before Queensland
midget Condon. In Sydney Golden Gate’s big Xmas
tourney the public favorites were invariably smashed,
and smashed pretty badly, too.
* • • •
“ Jab ” : Notice it said that salt-water bathing
saps the stamina of nowaday pugs and makes them weaken
in the legs. Rats 1 If this be correct then the men with
us now are differently constituted from those that have
passed. Peter Jackson swore by salt water, ditto Larry
Foley and that old-time battler in the open—Tommy
Kelly—who is still going strong and only looks half his
age. George Johns and Ed. Jessop strip exceptionally fit
for all their matches, and neither would miss a dip in the
briny any day.
* * • *
In Sydney first-grade cricket, Saturday, North
Sydney appeared to have a hopeless task up against
Waverley’s 394, and when 4 of its wickets went for 115
it seemed a certainty that N.S. must go down. But it
didn’t, for Hartigan and Iredale got together, and then
Haddon and Iredale to such purpose that the bowling was
fairly collared. Iredale (109) retired voluntarily after the
winning hit. Haddon kept going till stumps-draw when
he was 165 (n. 0.) and North Sydney won by 3 wickets and
45 runs. Strangely enough Haddon was twelfth man
and wouldn’t have shaped at all had Hopkins returned
from Melbourne earlier. Leichhardt-Balmain notched 64
in excess of Sydney’s accumulation. A new man (Kort.
lang) helped materially towards this result by com-
piling 93.
a • * *
Lord Hawke’s team in M.L. doesn’t look like a
paying thing. Ex.’s of opening match exceeded receipts
and necessitated a levy of 2s. in the £ upon the guaran-
tors. First day brought £45, and second £l5O.
* » * *
The best cricket eleven in the world, according
to a vote taken by an English magazine Maclaren,
Ranji., Trumper, Jackson, Hill, Lilley, Hirst, Rhodes,
Fry, Braund, Trumble.
• « • »
Writes “Malle” “ ‘Jab’ (B. 17/l/’O3) says it
was never conveyed in any way that the surplus gate at
testimonial function would go to Trumper. Nevertheless
the general idea was that all the money realised, less
expenses, would be thus disposed of, and a large number
of tickets were bought by people who never had any
intention of attending the presentation but who wished
to see the champion bat get a good thing. Many of these
had never heard of the ‘ Old Boys’ Union,’ and would
assuredly not have bought tickets merely to enrich that
body, and they now rightly feel that they are the victims
of a breach of faith. The position seems to be, that the
‘Old Boys’ Union’ wanted to raise funds and Trumper
was a convenient stalking-horse, so the Oid Boys got up the
alleged benefit, and, after presenting their 1 convenience '
with what Trumpery percentage they thought fit, they
manfully stuck to the balance.”
» * * *
For the information of any makers or motorists
desirous of competing in the 165 miles YVarrnambool
motor race, which will probably be held next August,
under the auspices of the Dunlop Tyre Co., it is
mentioned that no motors with a larger bore and
stroke than 3in. by 3in. will be allowed to compete, as the
Dunlop Company’s idea is to promote the advancement
of the genuine roadster motor cycle, and not the intro,
duction of racing monstrosities, which are all very well
on the racing track, but totally out of place on the public
roads.*
* * * *
Scene—Maori football match, all barefooted ;
Hori (hopping and holding his shin) : “By gorry, Hone,
nex’ time you pray t’e football I t’ink it t’e bes’ you cut
you’ toenail.”
Cabled that N.S. W. Agent-General Cope-
land stigmatises as contemptible the action ol the
Rand capitalists in seeking to introduce Chinese
labor into the mines.
English and Australian workmen had, he said, helped
to save the mines, and now it was proposed to hand their
legitimate employment to a horde of barbarians. Mr.
Copeland further declared if Mr. Chamberlain consents
to the importation of Chinese labor into the Transvaal,
such action on his part will far outweigh all the good
that he has ever done, embitter the whole of Australia
and Canada, and make the colonial peop the avowed
enemies of himself and the Imperial policy.
Which is all very well so far as it goes, but it
doesn’t alter the fact that Chinese or other cheap
labor was wliat the Hebrew bosses of the Rand
had in view all the time. That was what Aus-
tralians fought for—cheap Chow or cheap nigger
labor. The Rand bosses may not get their cheap
Chows after all, but, nevertheless, Australians
bled to get them cheap Chows. And that is the
inscription which should be graven on the tomb
of every cohentingenter—“ Died for Levy’s cheap
monkey.” Chamberlain seeks to dodge the situa-
tion by appointing a commission to inquire into
the question of labor for the Rand, and saying
that he has not consented to the wholesale im-
portation of Chinese.
Defence Minister Forrest, visiting Wes-
tralia in connection with the opening of Coolgardie
Water Supply Scheme, dropped several hints as
to his willingness to return to State politics. A
Forrest revival has set in over West, and if Big
John returned to Westralia he would have no
difficulty in finding a seat and grabbing the
Brenners hip right away. Present Ministry is a
small and mild affair, and Westralia associates
fiorrest with big public works, and boom and
large borrowing, and would welcome him back
for that reason.


ICE! ICE! ICE!
The hot, stifling Summer days are approaching.
Have a Refrigerator, and keep loe. It is a solid comfnr* a ..
as HARDAB CRYSTAL? DiStlUed Water ‘ ?CLEAR and
. We despatch it freight paid to ANY RAILWAY STATION IN THlf watw ,
in specially constructed cases. Waste during : l “ ®iATE, packed
and full catalogue of our products. 8 Write for a quotation,
Deliveries regular by special carts in Sydney and Suburbs.
THE N.S-W.
FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
m
B -
Physical Culture taught by Mail.
beg to announce the establishment of a Depart-
ment of Physical Culture in connection with
our Chief Office at Sydney. The Director of this
Department is Mr. A. W. Bradford, an expert in the
Sargent (American), Swedish and Sandow Systems.
Our Condensed System, fifteen minutes each day,
S^ e . rl ,l c , c . ordin S t 0 directions, will ensure GOOD
HEALTH, PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT, and
ELASTICITY OF MIND AND BODY
Absolutely cures Constipation, Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, Nervous Exhaustion, and revitalises the
Whole Body.
« S i*! bot £ Sexes > ranging in age from 12 to 60,
win and benefit from our instruction. Full informa-
tion furnished in reply to post-card or personal inquiry.
Canada Cycle and Motor Co. Ltd.
357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 ios. to £is
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St. f Melbourne.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit vritls
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
S' "A
*
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipt* bank check* It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearfr than the original.
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
Indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
Asrents for Australasia: E. RICH & CO. LTD., »von«y BRIBBANB
SHARPS HOOTING
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK l
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. OR iENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
Automatic Slot
Machines, Novelties, &c.
Hotelkeepers, Tobacconists, &c.
Send for our CATALOGUE of the LATEST
STYLES of SLOT MACHINES and NOVELTIES.
Supplied for QUEENSLAND by Ascent:
ARTHUR o. BRAY, 92 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Supplied for TASMANIA by Agent :
WERTHEIMER, BENJAMIN & ANDERSON, 71 Collins St.,
Hobart and Launceston.
Supplied for VICTORIA by Agent:
ALFRED W. JONES, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS, AUSTRALASIA:
J. LANDES, 108 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Zxutfaem 4092.
By Special
AppolabMOl
Gr. H. SMITHand SON
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,,
in white drill. Jet. and
in all colors in/elt.
10/6 and 12 6
Eat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Slaec
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Sftmiw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Powo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livkry Hats, Clerical Silk
Nats, Etc., Mads to Ordsh
BA*
•OOR NIGH A CENTURY
£ WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR
has been the FAITHFUL FRIEND of the
TONSORIAL ARTIST.
U D-DAY Tub Potent Phrase, “THIS SHOP USES ONLY
V/ILLIAMST’ is a Sure PASSPORT TO PUBLIC FAVOR.
Send a Penny Stamp fc
Puzzle. Can you explain ii
Glastonbury, Conn., U.B.A. j
>r William*' Changing Face
6? J. B. WILLIAMS 00„
and Si? Olarenee-it., Sydney
Sydney D.T. recently stated that the
report of the executive of N’.S. W. Political Labor
League disagreed with the action of the Parlia-
mentary Labor party re Balmain South bye-elec-
tion. Now the report ha* been published, and
states
In Nov. Mr. S. J. Law handed In his resignation as a
member of the Parliamentary Labor party, and subse-
quently resigned his seat for South Balmain. Your
executive promptly reorganised the local league, and Mr.
ijugh Byers was selected as the solidarity candidate,
ihe allied forces of sectarianism, capitalism, and retro-
gression presented a strong front, and this contemptible
alliance resulted in the return of the renegade, who,
however, polled fewer votes than at the previous elec-
tion."
But there is still no apology from the D.T.—
which, however, is very keen on getting Cardinal
Moran to apologise for his lapses.
While one State tries to worry through an
interval of depression by injudicious borrowing
and another increases the gloom by retrenching
from the wrong end, the country is saved from
ruin by that harmless stimulant D.C.L. Whisky,
which quickens the wit to devise new enterprise
and stiffens the will to overcome difficulties.
Sweet are the uses of D.C.L. —the Whisky of the
Wise.*
The abandoning of all hope of recovery of
the bodies of the two seamen of the Sydney pilot
steamer, drowned in an attempt to recover a body
from the rocks at South Head, is a lucky circum-
stance for some people. Had an inquest been
held on the bodies, the blame for the incident
would have been fixed by a coroner’s jury instead
of by secret departmental inquiry.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lace, London, England.*
Cabled that Acheen (Sumatra) has at last
been conquered by the Dutch, and the Sultan has
surrendered—after a 30 years’ war. in which
£20,000,000 of good Dutch legal tender has been
spent. This carrying of the gospel to the heathen,
when the heathen is a good fighting-man, costs
more than it is worth. When the gospel really
does arrive the heathen is generally dead.
The G.B.D. briar pipe, by reason of its un-
rivalled quality, still keeps the lead in popularity with
Australian smokers; and with all other smokers who
have the luck to try it.*
Pioneer Orange Phosphate, the tonic which
captured certificates of merit from Grace Palotta,
Florence Young and other ladies of theatrical quality,
probably owes some of its rapid popularity to the “ rasp-
berry vinegar scare." Nobody thusfar has cast any
analytical reflections on the character of P.O.P. It is
understood to be fairly true to its title, and peculiarly
suitable for mixing with Hepburn Mineral Water ; any-
way the Melbourne firm that cylinders the mineral water
is recommending the new combination. A Yankee
brought Orange Phosphate to Melbourne some years
ago and tried to boom it from behind a little
stall on the outskirts of Cole’s Book Arcade, but
the world wouldn’t take him seriously. So the
Yank, in despair, sold his prescription to Robert
Harper and Co., whereupon Providence naturally smiled
upon the spec., and Palotta’s portrait graced the advt.,
and the business was made. A good many of Melbourne’s
holiest citizens would be shocked to find Robert Harper’s
name figuring on the label of an article which is retailed
in wicked pubs., but the holiest don’t go to pubs.*
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chen lists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers.
Aliport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Emd^d.* armaCeU^ c^ern * Southampton,
Phe Bulletin has received from the pub-
lisher, Joseph Whitaker, F.S.A., two most
yaluaWe works— “ Whitaker’s Almanack” for
lyOd, and Whitaker’s Peerage” for 1903, the
oriru-i. V ei °Bi a directory of titled persons.
Whitaker s Almanack ” is a useful reference
work, from which one learns that N.S.W Gov
Rawson was born Nov. sth, 1843, and that in
JLngiand a .domestic servant can be dismissed
without notice if about to add to the population.
1 here is other information, including statistics
and information of all parts of the wide British
Jbmpire, and interesting particulars of every coun-
try and prominent institution under the sun. As
far as this writer knows, there is no other publica-
tion which gives such a vast range of information
tor a bashful and retiring half-crown. The peer-
age is not in the same street as regards usefulness,
being devoted mostly to particulars of people who
owe their all to the fact that they are the alleged
legal descendants of their fathers. It is full of
particulars of musty ceremonies by which in ve
olden time an expert cutter of throats was elevated
on a pedestal which varied in height according to
the amount of damage he had done. Still, the
work is useful. It enables one to check or audit
the dead-beat who says he is a viscount when he
is really nothing more than a baron.
TJOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
- 1 - ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ Kingr Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
High Art Jewellery.
TP you want any Article of JEWELLERY made to
order, and the work requires Special Skill, you should
take it to the undermentioned firm.
They have one of the FINEST STAFFS OF
ARTISTS OUT OF LONDON.
LLEWELLIN & CO., 177 Pitt St., Sydney
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
STAMPS.— STAMP BUSINESS FOR SALE.— a Thorough-
going Concern, Old Established. Apply “ PHIL,’
GORDON & GOTCH, QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Have
No
Equal
o
O
/
KW
\
oan truly bo said of our now patent
Vulcanised
Dun Iqp TYres
Durable
Resilient
and
Reliable.
You can make no mistake
by ordering the Vulcanised
Th«y
an manufactured under a hydraulic pressure of 12001bs. to the
square inoh, thus rendering parting of rubber and fabric an im-
possibility. No other tyres can be made under this prooesa.
Roadster Tyros guaranteed for 12 months.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
ISO CLARENCE BTREET, SYDNEY . . .
.Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Cbrl.tehurch, H.Z.
AX9AX


u
)
cl
•Jr
Dunno’ wot
they was:
wasn’t
OGDEN’S
‘GUINEA- GOLD’
CIGARETTES.”
OGDEN’S are PURE.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
We wish to bring under your notice, in connection with GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES, that we have landed the first shipment of 1901 CROP
OF VIRGINIA TOBACCO. It is reputed to be the MILDEST AND SWEETEST grown for many years, and we have acccordingly started right away to use
this fine naw leaf in our Cigarettes. Smokers of GUINEA GOLDS will now find them SWEETER and MILDER than ever.
OGDENS, LIMITED, 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/lsd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : aILLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for theregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
JOYFUL NEWS
\
\l
For WEAK MEN.
For men whose bodies are racked with pain, and whose
minds are tortured by the realisation of the loss of
youthful vigor; men whose physical force is being
destroyed by Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back or
Kidneys, bf ervousness, Liver, Bladder or Stomach
Troubles. Are you a man of this class? If so, you must know that
what has restored the joy of life to thousands of other men must be
a blessing to you. The Dr. Austin Electric Belt gives a soothing,
warm, strengthening and delightful current of Electricity into the
affected parts, thereby effecting a practical, certain and speedy
cure. We are so positive of the tremendous therapeutic properties
of this wonderful Belt that we will send it, with all attachments
complete, to any person writing us, and you can wear it for
90 days, and
PAY ONLY WHEN CURED-
SPECIAL NOTICE.— If you have a Belt which has failed, or
burns and blisters, or uses vinegar, I will allow you for it in exchange
for mine.
CALL TO-DAY and test Belt free. No charge for consultation.
FREE BOOK. —If you cannot call, write for my beautifully-
illustrated Medical Book, which every adult should read; sent
sealed, free. W rite to-day.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
SKNTN,
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE = 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALFALINE Vitality Pills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair, but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases.
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALF ALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
RAJSSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from ... f* M j J
Herr Eassmussen’s Head Office— vreorge bt., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N-Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORLIE: 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Kesse St.
“Fred S.” : Bulletin, with other papers,
makes the mistake of taking a “stretch” in
criminals’ slang to mean any sentence. A stretch
is one year, a “sixer” is 6 months, 3 months a
“ drag,” 5 years a “ fin,” 3 years a “ traybit,” and
2 years “two-penn’orth.” A “moon,” for a
month, is now almost obsolete. [Thanks. We’ve
been in gaol, but, so far, not on that side.]
“ F.” : A new aspect was given to the
eternal conundrum “What is Truth?” by a
Jewish witness in Russia, who refused to be
sworn
on the ground that the formula made him to state that
he would tell the truth, not in any sense attached to it by
himself, but in that of the persons who exacted this oath.
It was something of the same formula, evidently,
as that of the King of England’s “without mental
reservation ” oath against Roman Catholicism.
The incident gives rise to the question : Is a
witness supposed or expected to tell the truth
from his point of view or from the point of view
he imagines the interrogator to hold ? There is a
wide difference between the two. Ideas of truth,
capacities for telling truth, vary as much as
human minds. An ignorant savage could not
tell the truth about (say) the phenomena of some
complex process ; and so on up the scale of
humanity till, towards the top, you meet a few
well-trained and well-instructed minds, who can,
and do, approximate very nearly to the truth in
the narration of even involved happenings. But
there’s no such thing on this earth as “the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,”
which witnesses swear to tell in the law-courts
every day of the year.
Harry Moranfc and his sorry fate, told of
in “Bushman and Buccaneer” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Pietersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Booksellers and Bulletin office (post free Is. Id.)


URIC ACID.
Headache— Neural-
Bladder Troubles
Their Scientific Treatment
Rheumatism - Gout - Backache-Lumbago-
Sciatica— Persistent
gia Gravel Stone-
Their Cause
and Cure.
the kidneys and kidney poisons.
F S 3? 32. &£ VWZ&SL/Si
hlch lfc 18 the duty of the kidneys P to remove?*** extractlon frora lfc of certain specific poisons,
kidneys are similar^n'sha^t^thoseT/’l 1 « < K th ® i back ’ one on each sid e of the spine. Human
fat, and are supplied se i*^, a ®heep, but are somewhat larger. They are encased in
akin to filtering? the T COnvey Wood to them from the heart By a process
veins tHe bl °° d varioua waste poisons iTh? fr ° m tb . e bl - ood - and they also extract
veins. ° poisons with which it becomes laden in its journey through the
the blood by P th”°kid Ineys 1 neys, g a°nd tiwSutim^QTH* 46 , 113 a f e dissolved in the water taken from
kidney into the bladder and k utlon “ Passed through narrow passages leading from each
Some of the poisonTStaTned in n^? 136116 - fr ,° m the body - This *>lutiSn is known
min UnleTs at the °* £d£ “ ““ ; ° therS are
the blood, and becomes actively poisonous^cantin’ tbe . wast ® matter is incompletely extracted from
be cured until the kidneys are restored to health Van ° U3 disorders which cannot
turned 1o the A ?J ite nters the veins, and is, in due time, re-
waste matter. The heart again send? the hW he a L nd taken U P a fresh supply ot
the impurities. This ° nce “° re filter ifc a “ d -""act
twenty-_fou 1 r d hou S rs° f I^thkqualiSTof' fr ? m , the blood ab °ut three pints of urine in
grains, in weight, of uric acid together with oTh«? SS °' IVe< ? ab s Ut an ou , nce of urea > and ten or twelve
of an ounce to nearly an ounce. g ™ th other amm al and mineral matter, varying from a third
°xy every 1 par?of°th?ldssues^f o the^lwd<? S noi ? nsh ™ ent - derived from the food we eat, and
consumed, and for which they have no further f’ and T r^ eives . fr °m‘he .issues matter which they have
and kidneys to throw off and get rid o ll k t This waste matter it is the duty of the skin, lungs,
lent of eight ounces of pure charcoal e4rv twlltv °{ Carbon \ c acid, the lungs throw off the equiva-
atmg urea, uric acid, etc., as described. 7 ty-four hours, and the kidneys do their share byelimin-
are ? fthekk ? neys tc > perform their allotted task
Gravel, Stone and Bladder T?Sw es WhU ent Headache ’ Neuralgia, Anaemia,
of the complaints mentioned can exist becaus« kld - neys a ? e properly doing their work none
natural manner. 6 st ’ b auae the causative poisons are then duly removed in a
Warner’s Safe Cure.
aSSt sHS? ,JS rr sws ■ss'&s isar zs
K ,ts ,o
suffer from kidney diBeMe and do , t The first BympK>m
PAIN IN THE BACK.
and no time should be lost in adnnh’Aa- float about in it, then the kidneys are not healthy
will be the result adopting remedial measures or Bright’s Disease or some serious illness
quei^l^^^re^an^pCTrnanently^fur^^l^diip^ ll aU *"* f restore u tbe kid neys to health and will conse-
of uric acid in the sys?m 7 cure ~ alldlseaseB a ™mg from their feeble condition and the retention
accounts of eases cum! "wifi Warn ® r ’ 8 Safe Cure and many
asian Branch. Melbourne. application to H. H. Warner and Co., Limited, Austral-
BALANCE SHEET
OF
THE BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND LTD.
Dt ’ FOR T HE HALF-YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1902.
Cr.
Deposits
Treasury Note Account
Bills Payable and other Liabilities ..
..£261,541 4 6
.. 33,333 0 0
.. 23,361 710
Capital.. .. £350,000
Less Reserve
Liability .. 250,000
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss
0 0
0 0
100,000 0
13,750 0
2,744 13
£318,235 12 4
116,494 13 8
£434,730 6 0
Coin, Bullion, and Cash Balances .. £5O 014 n o
Treasury Notes on Hand .. 12 928 ft ft
Remittances in Transit to Branches and
Government Stock ” ” ” Y.JgZ 0 0
Bills Discounted and all other Debts due
to Bank .
Bank Premises, Furniture, and Stamp
Accounts ....
305,913 1 6
20,257 17 9
£434,730 6 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, Rent, and other charges at Head
Office, 11 Branches, and 1 Agency.. .. £5,947 12 7
~ Interest paid and accrued on Deposits
and Treasury Note Account .. .. 2,728 6 4
„ Balance 2,744 13 8
£11,420 12 7
By Balance from last Half-year
„ Gross Amount of Profit for Haif-year
including’ recoveries from debts previously
written off as bad .. .. . y
£6B 3 10
11,362 8 9
£11,420 12 7
RESERVE FUND,
By Balance £l2 500 0 0
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account.. 1*250 0 0
£13,750 0 0
Audited and found correct. —
THOS. B. STEELE \
G. O. BEARDMORE /
Auditors .
A. S. COWLEY", Chairman of Directors.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager .
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We have examined the foregoing Balance Sheet, made up to 31st December, 1902, and report that
we find the several items therein stated to conform to the Balances at Head Office, and to the Balance
Sheets furnished by the various Branches, the latter being certified to by the respective Managers and
Accountants.
We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in
Brisbane on the 31st ult., and hereby certify that we have found them correct.
We further certify that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is full and fair, properly drawn up, and
exhibits a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank as shown by the Books on the 31s*
December, 1902. *
Brisbane, Bth Januabt, 1903.
THOS. B. STEELE 1
G. 0. BEARDMORE /
Auditort.
Onkaparinga Racing Gub
ANNUAL RACES,
ON THE
Oakbank Course,
On EASTER MONDAY,
APRIL 13, 1903.
COMmTTEE-MEssßs. W. G. Johnston,
J.l'. (chairman), J. D. Johnston, J.P., A. D
Johnston, T. Hope Murray, J.P., R. W. Klein-
J'P*, W. Lowkn, and P. Hooper.
STEWARDS— Sir J. L. Stirring, M.L.C.,
Hon. A. R. Addison, M.L.C., Messrs. E. W.
Ellis, EL Hughes, H. A. Barnett, W. G. John-
ston, J.P.. P. Hooper, T. Hope Murray, J.P.,
and A. D. Johnston.
JUDGE—Mr. R. E. H. Hope.
HANDICAPPER— Mr. H. Hughes.
STARTER— Mr. T. F. Wigley.
STEWARD OF SCALES-Mh. H. H. Parr.
TIMEKEEPER—Mr. W. Gordon.
SURGEONS— Drs. W. Blaxland and C.
Corbin.
Handicap Hurdle Race, of £5OO.
To start at 5 minutes past 12 o’clock.
About Two Miles.
First horse, -£350; second horse, £100; third
horse, £5O. Nomination, £l, on or before
Thursday, February 12, 1903. Weights de-
clared on Wednesday, March 18. Acceptance,
£2, on Monday, April 6, 1903. The winner
of any Handicap Hurdle Race of the value of
£5O (after declaration of weights) to carry
71b. ;of £lOO or over, 141 b. extra. Penalties
not cumulative.
Trial Stakes, of £lOO.
To start at 12.50 o’clock.
Seven and a-half Furlongs. Weight for Age.
First horse, £75; second horse, £25. For all
horses which, up to time of starting, have not
won a stake, or part of a stake, of more than
£5O. Maidens allowed 51b., which must be
claimed at the time of entry. Entrance, £l,
on day of general entry, Monday, April«
Onkaparinga Cup, of £5OO.
To start at half-past 1 o’clock.
Handicap. One Mile and Three-Quarters.
First horse, £350; second horse, £100; third
horse, £5O. Nomination, £1; acceptance,
£3; and declaration of weights same date and
time as Handicap Hurdle Race. The winner
of any handicap flat race (after declaration of
weights) of the value of £5O to carry 51b. ; of
£lOO, 71b. ; and of £2OO or over, 101 b. extra.
Penalties not cumulative.
LUNCHEON.
Great Eastern Steeplechase, of
£llOO.
To start at a quarter to 3 o’clock.
Handicap. Three and a Quarter Miles.
Over such course and jumps as the stewards shall
direct. First horse, £700; second horse,
£200; third horse, £100; and £lOO to the
breeder of the winner, payable at presentation
of breeder’s certificate, duly signed and certi-
fied by a Justice of the Peace. Nomination,
£1 ; acceptance, £5 ; and declaration of
weights same date and time as Handicap
Hurdle Race. The winner of any handicap
hurdle race or handicap steeplechase (after
declaration of weights) to the value of £5O to
carry 71b. ; of £lOO or over, 101 b. extra.
Penalties not cumulative.
Hills Railway Stakes, of £250
To start at half past 3 o’clock.
Handicap. Five Furlongs.
First horse, £170; second horse, £5O ; third horse,
£3O. Nomination, £1 ; acceptance, £2 ; and
declaration of weights same date and time as
Handicap Hurdle Race. The winner of any
handicap flat race of the value of £5O (after
declaration of weights) to carry 51b. ; of £lOO
or over, 71b. extra. Penalties not cumulative.
The winner of the Onkaparinga Cup to carry
101 b. extra.
Amateur Steeplechase, of £200..
To start at a-quarter past 4 o’clock.
About Two Miles. Welter Weights for Age.
First horse, £125 ; second horse, £35 ; third horse,.
£l5 ; and a Silver Cup or Trophy, value £25,
to go to the rider of the winning horse. For
all horses that have not, up to the time of
starting, won an advertised stake, or part of a
stake (Hurdle Race or Steeplechase), of the
value of £5O. Amateur riders, to be approved!
by the committee. Names of riders to be
sent in not later than Thursday, April 9.
Riders that have never won a race allowed!
71b., and those that never started in a race
101 b., to be claimed at scale. Entrance, £l..
on day of general entry, Monday, April 0,.
1903.
Disposal Stakes, of £lOO.
To start at 5 o’clock.
About One Mile. Weight for Age.
Winner to be sold immediately after the race for
£5O, any surplus over selling price to go to
the funds of the club. 71b. allowed for every
£lO reduction in selling price, which must be
stated at time of entry. Entrance, £1 on
day of general entry, Monday, April 6, 1903.
This meeting will be carried out under the rules
regulations, and by-laws of the South Australian
Jockey Club in force at the time of running, to
which special attention is directed.
NOMINATIONS for Handicap Hurdle Race,
Onkaparmga Cup, Great Eastern Steeplechase,
and Hills Railway Stakes, to be sent to the Secre-
tary, Woolside Hotel, Woolside, S.A., not later
than 7.30 p.m., on THURSDAY, FEBRUARY
12, 1903; or at Considine’s Racecourse Agencv
491 Bourke-street, Melbourne; or Gordon’s Race-
course Agency, Adelaide, same date, up to 4
o’clock p.m. ACCEPTANCES and GENERAL
ENTRIES at each of the abovenamed places U p
to 4 o’clock p.m. on MONDAY, APRIL 6, 1903
No Entry or Acceptance will be received in any
case or on any terms after the hour named for
closing
w i A- voxDOYSSA, Secretary.
Woolside, December 15, 1902. J
Exactly what official England mis read into the
evanescent Australian Boer-war enthusiasm is
now disclosed for the first time, by the publica-
tion of the War Office proposals to the recent
Colonial Conference in London in regard to
recruiting. The proposals show a magnificent
impudence, and an equally impressive ignorance
of conditions in Australia. Summarised they
amounted to this: Australia was to recruit qnoo
soldiers of all ranks for the
engage for periods of not less than two years to
serve in war wherever required,” and to be at
the disposal of the Imperial Government “for
general service in case of war between Great
Britain and one or more European Powers as
soon as the naval authorities are in a position
to undertake the responsibility for the move
ment ot tops by sea”; these men were to
be paid at English rates when on service; the
officer commanding and the head-quarters staff to
be appointed by the English King. That is the
sort of scheme that, when a conqueror is able he
sometimes imposes upon a helot province, but it
is utterly and absolutely hopeless of acceptance in
Australia. The Commonwealth would neither
consent to pay for the up-keep of such a large
force for foreign service, nor permit the control
of so many of her soldiers to pass away from her
hands into those of wlmt is, to all intents and
purposes, a foreign government. It would be in-
teresting to know what Mr. Barton and Mr
r orrest said in the discussion on this War Office
scheme; there seem to have been most excellent
reasons for the suppression of the reports of the
conference.
«.
An Italian, Dr. F, S. Branchi, writing from
JYlilcin on his observations of the Transvaal war z
For a long time I was beguiled into the belief that this
struggle was being fought out on strictly humane lines
but a time came when my ears were made to tingle and
my heart to sicken with accounts of revolting savagery
committed. . . . The authorities again and again sent
instructions to the heads of the various colonies directing
the adoption of close and stringent measures to keen
these atrocities safe from public ken, and had it not so
happened that the German Government insisted upon
having the murder of Daniel Hesse avenged, I fear
nothing would have occurred to check these horrible
tactics and the possibilities are that the British War Office
would have succeeded in clapping this dark phase of this
unhappy war under lock aDd key, and have bluffed off all
intruders.
It is easy to understand in view of this (Dr.
Branchi s remarks only reinforce evidence which
we have already published) that the Imperial
authorities wish to smother the Australian demand
for an inquiry as to the Bushveldt Carbineers;
but what is astonishing is that the Australian
daily papers should assist them by a strenuous
policy of suppression. London Daily Mail
recently gave space to a full account of the B.C.
trials which, according to the editor of that paper,
“ excited much comment in London.” But not a
whisper about them in the Australian press. Last
session a member of N.S.W. Assembly tabled
questions dealing with Major Lenehan’s case.
The S.M.H. gave them an obscure and non-
cornprehensible reference; the other dailies sup-
pressed them absolutely. The British War Office
seems to have sturdy friends in Australian news-
paper circles.
*
The English proposals tor an increase in the
naval tribute, which Australia pays for the
pleasure of seeing an English squadron in its
ports during times of peace, really seem absurdly
reasonable, in view of the encouragement given
by Minister John Forrest in his minute of
March, 1902 :
Our aim and object should be to make the Royal Navy
the Empire’s Navy, supported by the whole of the self-
governing portions of the Empire, and not solely sup-
ported by the people of the British Isles, as is practically
the case at the present time. ..If a proposal were
adopted that the Empire should have one fleet main-
tained by the whole nation, every part contributing to
its support on some plan to be mutually arranged,
probably on that of the comparative trade of each
country, and not necessarily on a uniform basis of con-
tribution, what a splendid idea would be consummated,
and what a bulwark for peace throughout the world
be established ! ”
That was signed “John Forrest, Minister of
State for Defence,” and naturally was taken in
England to represent Australian Cabinet opinion,
as it should have done unless Mr. Forrest
gravely exceeded his rights.
The motor tandem bike is not an unmixed
joy. The front man controls the steering, which
is out of reach of the back man ; the back gentle-
man controls the driving gear, which is out of
reach of the front man. Recently, in Auckland
(M.L.), a tandem ran over a rock in the street,
and the back man, having had tea for breakfast,
fell off. The front man found himself on a
machine that he couldn’t stop, so he shut his
teeth and clacked, merrily up hills and round
corners, and clattered backwards and forwards
among the traffic, trembling every moment lest
he should turn into a blind street, and pull up
against a wall, or rush over a few roofs into
perdition. When he had travelled about 80 miles
of sti-eet, and run over several tramcars, pede-
strians and valuable dogs, there was a final clack
or two, and the machine stopped with its front
wheel against a pawnbroker’s window, into which
it had been turned to escape a traction engine.
“ T.D.” gives an opinion :
Two judicial reforms are necessary—the separation of
the civil and criminal judiciaries, and the appointment of
younger men as Judges on the criminal side. There is
hardly a J udge on the Victorian Bench from whom ridi-
culously unfair sentences do not frequently emanate, and
tnere is not one among them who had sufficient experi-
ence as an advocate in his practising days to warrant his
selection to administer the criminal code, were it apart
from the civil work. It is just as absurd to expect the
average equity lawyer to inquire into the doings of the
larcenist and the “ criminal assault ’’ culprit as it would
he to put a maker of railway locomotive wheels on to
huild the boiler parts of the same machine. Irvine,
Oussen, Higgins, and the other big guns of Vic.
Equity Bar are never seen in the criminal courts,
yet when the former steps from his Premiership
into a snug place on the Bench, he will straightway
commence to administer the criminal code, and serve out
floggings and long stretches of penal servitude, as though
equipped to do so by years of contact with the men he
has to deal with. Tom Bent would be equally fitted for
the job. And most of our Judges are too old to deal with
oases where the quality of mercy should at all times be
an essential consideration. Just as Purves, K. 0., “riles”
Chief Justice Madden nearly every time he stands before
him, so practically every other Judge on the Bench has a
pet aversion among the legal practitioners, and one or
two have shown unmistakably that they regard the
“ amalgam ” as a person who should be jumped on at all
times. This is mainly because they are old and testy and
nurse a spirit of small vexation longer than younger
men would do Younger men would not be
so quarrelsome, nor would they be quite so gar-
rulous as the average old Judge, nor would they
waste too much time trying to evolve technical points,
nor would they sleep half through an important murder
trial, nor would they demonstrate a special antipathy to
a particular class of offender, nor would they grind their
teeth with lunatic rage when ordering their victims four
whippings of twenty-five lashf "n a twelve months
senteno* All these are idiosyncrasies of individual Vic.
judges, 'he vounger men might show an unwholesome
b : »s to-v irds pretty female prisoners and witnesses, but
then, 1 have seen several very senile judges similarly
disposed.


DRYSDALE'S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Timbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
Native Australian :
The final passing of draper-Senator Sargood—from his
earthly to his last long home—proved a properly-adver-
tised, well-managed function, and was carried out, in the
blazing heat which struck Meli ourne last Saturday,
before a crowded audience that waited from 1 to 6 p.m.
on the roadside, and then toddled home satisfied that the
free show was much the best of the afternoon’s attrac-
tions. It was peculiarly fitting that a “ military ” funeral
(over 2000 men, apart from a horde of boys, were under
arms for the occasion) should be accorded to the man
who, himself never a soldier, above all else believed in
the value of a gaudy uniform, the power of “ the
flag,” the virtue of a combination of Militarism and
Trade. It was significant that, while he was carried alon«-
—calm, cold, untroubled—the little cadets and their
older mates, who had assembled to dignify his poor day,
should have fainted by the dozen in the fierce sun. As'
in life, the star-performer had ever the best of it. After
the military rode the josses of the Sargood clan—the little
tin gods of ‘’Trade.” Three Senators, three Reps., seven
M sLA., and h M sL.C., then nearly a mile of 11 mayors
arfid Councillors” of such and such a suburb. Two-thirds
of the spectators were women—as usual; these agreed it
was a “great funeral," and characterised the two car-
loads of faded flowers as lovely,” “ beautiful.” When
they got home—even before the grave was filled in—they
would read in the Herald the names of the senders of
those flowers, even the florists who supplied the crosses
and wreaths being careful to work in their little adver-
tisement. And none of these women would see any-
thing grotesque about it; or about the two huge,
draped stands erected just outside the graveyard gates
each with the eternal camera-fiend and his machine atop.
It was, indeed, a splendid funeral—well-managed, well-
advertised, carried out without hitch or halt—with the
cherubic Dr. Bevan, of flowing locks and oily voice,
to pass the departed soul on to its heavenly reward. But
there were those who thought sadly of another funeral,
10 years ago almost to the day, when a simple hearse,
followed by a couple of carriage's, bore to the same long
home all that remained of the lofty-souled man who is still
mourned in the hearts of tens of thousands, and whose
works will remain long after the very name of Sargood is
forgotten—George Higinbolh&m.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine dev elopes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made is London. *
There is Only One
S£
n
mm
i
hi
!»!
ni
li I
ii
i !
hi
i!
• I
i
».
1 1
ii
California
Sprupoffifls,
But there are bad imitations and
cheap substitutes in plenty.
The Original and Genuine, now
known throughout the English-
speaking world as
“Hature'sPleasantLaiatlTe"
Is the one perfect
STRENGTHENING laxative.
GLEANSIN6 THE SYSTEM EFFECTUALLY,
DISPELLING COLDS AND HEADACHES,
PREVENTING FEVEP.B,
OVERCOMING HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
PERMANENTLY.
Its freedom from every objec-
tionable substance, and acting on
the kidneys, liver and bowels,
gently yet promptly, without weak-
ening or irritating them, make
it the ideal laxative. In order to
get its beneficial effects, ask for
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF
FIGS, and look for the name
printed on the front of the package.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY
Of ail Chemists, ' Depot, 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON, E.C.
Australian Branch: 7 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
Apropos that Immigration Restriction Act.
One Kormoud, a German immigrant to 17. S., "was
lately refused liberty to land there. The authori-
ties said he was so ugly that he could never
find work in the Republic. The distortion was
brought about by a clumsy Munich dentist.
“ Bhaggoo ” writes to The Bulletin from
Bombay:—
The great Punjaub plague inoculation scheme has come
down with a thump, and the whole costly machinery is
idle by reason of the cheeseparing economy and adminis
trative ineptitude of Indian officialdom. On Oct. 30, at
Malokwar, a small village in the Gujerat district, 19 men
died of tetanus after inoculatiou from one bottle of
prophylactic. Such a disaster was enough to scare a
European community, and its effect on the suspicious, ever-
chattering Asiatic has been such that years of plague-
mortality will be required to frighten him back to inocu-
lation as'the slightly lesser evil of the two. No blame
was attachable to the inoculator or his staff, but a pure
culture of tetanus was found in the residue of the bottle.
This is the direct outcome of the Bombay authorities re-
fusing to supply Haffkine with sufficient skilled European
assistance; the infection undoubtedly occurred while
bottling off the prophylactic. This process is carried on
by cheap native labor without skilled European super-
vision, beyond occasional visits from the overworked
bacteriologists who supervise the actual making. From
first to last the whole inoculation business has been
marked by carelessness and official bungling. The Anglo-
Indian official is bound hand and foot by red tape, and
will not accommodate himself to new conditions.
Nothing can be carried through without piles of papers,
and the repairs to an office chair require reams of writing
and enough signatures to furnish out a petition for
Babu autonomy. The imported medicoes, specially
brought out for the work, were filled up with
promises in England, and these promises were
quickly broken on arrival in India. Outfit and
apparatus went astray, or were never sent, and
everywhere the people were disappointed, and returned
to their villages to spread the rumor that the
Government intended to keep all prophylactic for the
troops at the absurd Delhi Durbar, and to leave the
villagers to die of plague. All attempts at remonstrance
were met with official delays or actual discourtesy, and
enthusiasm was checked in every possible way. The
native newspapers indulge unchecked in whatever abuse
of the Government they feel inclined for, and their power
was rapidly turned against the inoculation scheme as soon
as the incapacity of its organisers became evident. To
crown all, though the Malokwar catastrophe has been
known throughout India for over a month, no authorita-
tive statement of its nature has been published,
and details are left to the newspapers as run by
Ram Tall, “failed B.A. Calcutta University,’’ and
his kind. In fact, the Indian Government seems so
badly scared by this final outcome of its official methods
that it is anxious to do nothing except to hush things up,
get the corpses buried, and put on its nice new uniform
for the Durbar.
THE BALLARAT SCHOOL OF MIXES
will re-open on the 10th FEBRUARY.
FRED. J. MARTELL,
DIRECTOR,
Public Companies.
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE CO.
SHAREHOLDERS in the above Company are
hereby notified that a dividend of 4s. per
share for the half-year ended 30th November last
is now payable at the Company's Office, SI Pitt
Street, Sydney.
J. A. MIXNETT,
Manager.
amusements.
TH EAT E ROYAL, MELBOURNE? ~
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt
Sub-Lessee and Manatrer .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager. James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant
WILLIAM ANDERSON'S Famous Dramatic Organisation
headed by Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN,
in the Intensely Interesting Sensational Drama
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
MATINEE, A.X.A. DAY, JANUARY 26.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson
Bus. Manager, Gao. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
Electric Success of the Greatest Pantomime
Australia has Ever Seen,
DICK WHITTINGTON AND HIS CAT.
With New Effects and Fresh Novelties,
Entrancing Music rendered by an Opera Chorus and an
Opera Orchestra.
Price* at Usual. Box Plan at Allan's.
CINEMATOGRAPH
Paul’s New Century Animatograph, £6O
Paul’s Celebrated Picture Films, 9d.
per foot.
Full Particulars on Application to Paul’s Agents, viz. :
W. WATSON & SONS,
78 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Amusementa.
YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
Up-to-date and Full of Local Interest and Color,
BLAND HOLTS Australian Melodrama,
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager Mr. Frank Weathersby.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45.
sth WEEK sth
C I KT D B R ELL A..
Sydney’s Own and Only Pantomime.
THE COMEDIAN’S REVELS.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as Baron Bounder.
MATINEES Every WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY, 2 p.m.
Doors Open, 1 p.m.
SPECIAL MATINEE—
MONDAY NEXT, ANNIVERSARY DAY.
BOX PLAN FOR BOOKING,
WHITE ROSE CONFECTIONERY, ROYAL ARCADE,
209 PITT-STREET.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Reserved Seats in
Stalls and Dress Circle, 4s.
The atre royal, sydn e y.
Under the Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
Manager, Mr. T. P. Hudson.
Continued Triumphant Success of G EORU E M USGROVE’S
NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
in the Romantic and Fascinating Hungarian Comic Opera,
THE FORTUNE TELLER,
Enormous Success of MADAME SLAPOFFBKI and
MR. LEMPRIERE PRINGLE.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan Now Open at Nicholson’s.
DALACE SYDNEY.
■ Lessees .. .. Messrs. Lee and Rial.
Under the Direction of MR. J. C. WILLIA.SON
Every Evening, at S. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in
PAUL JONES.
SATURDAY NEXT, JAN. 24, THE MIKADO.
Box Plan at Nicholson's. PRICES AS USUAL.
TIVOL I THE AT R E, S Y D N E Y.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Triumphant Success of M. JACQUES INAUDI.’
Splendid Success of FRcD POPLAR, Miss KITTY WACER,
A Series of Triumphs scored by J. W. WIHTON and
M’GINTY. the Clever Yentriloquial Entertainer.
MISS JENNIE OPIE, THE LA MO NTS and their Per-
forming Dogs, Master CLIVE COOK, SYLVIA WILSON,
MALVENA MOORE. CLARENCE SISTERS, ERNEST
SULLIVAN, PEARL LOVELL, WILL WOODS, and
all our Great Tivoli Co.
piCKARDS' NE W OPERA HOUSE
■* MELBOURNE.
hole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
E\ ERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS s SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
SPRY and MONTI. WALLACE BROWNLOW.
A C. SPRY. C. W. HUNTER. DIAMOND DUO
ELSIE M'LACHLAN. LES WARTON. WELBY COOKE.
BIOSCOPE.
Prices—2s. OcL, 25., la 'a-A Plan at Allan’s.
DRINCESS'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
JAN ' 231 LAST NIGHT of MISS NEL
olur A CO UHTBY MOUSE, and THE PANTQM
Ken cARS AL.
SATURDAY", JAN. 24, First Time In Australia,
fITFwiDV Pr*sent«d by MISS NEI
Comedy Co* o** 0 ** Musgrove’* sew Enj
USUAL PRICES
Box Plan at Allan'*.
At Poverty Point.
“Comas”: Noteworthy that, in the discussion about
“ theatrical decadence," recently proceeding in the
Sydney dailiee, no reference was made to the want of
room, comfort, and safety in theatres. Whv must such
buildings be placed in positions where space is either too
costly to obtain or unobtainable altogether ? In Europe
no modem theatre is now permitted to consider vested
interests first and safety last!
Launceston (Tas.), which some people on the mainland
enviously condemn as slow, put up 1000 guineas as a
guarantee for one Melba concert. This big sum was paid
by one citizen, Mr. David Thomson, and he has to meet
all the extra expenses, such as printing and advertising.
Sydney, to match Launceston enterprise, would, in pro-
portion to population ,have had to guarantee £24,000.
“ J.A.0.” : Walter Howe —mentioned B. 17/1/’OS—was
for some time Bland Holt’s “leading man,” and, despite
his short stature, was one of the best men B.H. ever had.
W.H, has just made a great hit as Colonel Schwarze to
Mrs. Pat. Campbell’s Magda. Howe, besides being an
excellent engraver, a fair portrait-painter, and a good
scenic artist, makes most of his own “ props,” notably his
wigs, which are admittedly superior to the average arti-
ficial “head-thatch.”
New York seems to be very little impressed by our
Dani, “ the silver-voiced tenor.” Callous pressmen say
he fell below the expectations that had been raised on his
behalf, and one paper spells his name “ Danni.”
Some vandal who was there now throws bricks at the
yarn, told a hundred times, that G. S. Titheradge read
the proclamation when Victoria was declared Empress of
India, at Delhi, in 77. The proclamation, this vandal
says, was read in English, Hindustani, and Persian, by
Major Barnes, of the Native Cavalry.
George Rignold is back in London, and the newspapers
there are retailing the old stories which so mysteriously
find their way into print—how he is “ his own handsome
self” in Henry V., but as “Caliban” makes up so fear-
somely that on one occasion he frightened a woman in
the audience into premature child-birth.
A widow navigated, at Watson’s Bay, the first
wild-beast show in N.S.W. But one holiday her best
man-eater annexed a visitor’s arm, and the lady then
decided that the business was rather too robust for her.
So she tried to sell her beasties to Govt. The authorities,
however, didn’t see the advisability of acquiring a Zoo
previous to providing people to view it, and the pro-
prietress spent a happy moonlight night in cutting the
heads off some of her animals, drowning others and
poisoning the rest.
Hetty Holroyd, remembered as a brilliant—if somewhat
hard—Sydney soprano, has not lost much time in getting
her foot on the European operatic stage. She and Mrs.
Howie, the Maorilander, were the two singers whom
R. S. Smythe tacked on to Rev. Charles Clarke’s show
during the lecturer’s last tour in 1900. “ Years of study
under the best masters” were not required for making a
prima donna of Hetty Holroyd. She had a successful
debut at Turin last week, and, like Melba before her, she
made a start as Gilda in “ Rigoletto.” A really clever
young singer, gifted with a good Australian soprano
voice and appearance to match, can get a fair chance
in grand opera if she goes to a first-class finishing school
where critics and managers look for talent. Olive
Kingston had two offers of operatic engagements after
studying a year under Marchesi, but she preferred to
return to Melbourne with her parents. Any amount of
nonsense is talked about the “ training necessary for an
operatic career.” A career lasts a long time. It begins
with an offer of a “show” from an expert judge, and
then, if the expert’s judgment is endorsed by the public,
the singer’s career goes along and trains itself. Does
anybody suppose that the debutante Melba of 1887 sang
and acted the part of Gilda as cleverly as she did it in
Melbourne and Sydney the other month ?
Stated that the Agent-General for S.A. is forming an
Australian Musical Society in London, “ with a view to
introducing performers to the public at special concerts.”
Ye gods! Any Australian singer or musician of the
least merit can make an appearance at a special concert.
An introduction to a section of the public, with favorable
press-notices to follow, is easily enough obtained. The
trouble is to get the public in general to cultivate the
acquaintance of a new artist, and this is not likely to be
brought about by means of the “special concerts” of a
clannish Society. Practically there has been an Australian
Musical Association in London for years past. Its self-
elected members and their friends constitute 75 per cent,
of the audience at each concert given by a new “ future
Melba” or “ budding Crossley” as she comes along.
The stalwart King Hedley (understood to ba a Gipps-
lander or a Maoriiander by birch) has married a rich and
handsome widow in England.
“ D.” : For four nights running at Melb. entertainments,
I have been treated to more or less biograph, under
different aliases ; it is hardly possible to get a show nowa-
days without portion devoted to the flickering panorama.
An eminent oculist assures me that he is already getting
the first crop of “ biograph eyes,’’ for which frequent
doses of the calcium flicker have proved too much.
“ Zaza,” the next of George Musgrove’s productions
(by arrangement with J. C. Williamson), is not so essen-
tially naughty as “ Sweet Nell,” “ The Modern Magdalen,”
and “ The Country Mouse.” The main plot has a partly
moral tone, and a wholly improper result. Heroine, a
concert-singer, confers her affections upon a man, under
the delusion that he is a bachelor, and subsequently
leaves him on discovering that he is married. Adapted
from the French.
The goring to death of a Spanish bull-fighter, in
Mexico last week, was something more than a splendid
vindication of the hull’s claim to avenge the annual
slaughter of his baited brethren. It was a timely advt.
for Williamson’s show, “ The Toreador.”
Amusing to picture the tragic poses of the dolled-up
toreador fellows when the news came that one, Matillera
—“the famous hull-fighter”—had the bad luck to get
disembowelled by an intended victim. They will assume
more than ever the air of desperadoes going to certain
death, although the odds will siiil remain at about
10,000 to 1 against the bull. The Spaniards take
their toreadors quite seriously, despite the arena statis-
tics. The despicable character of the national sport
—accepting it as a sport—is beyond all question.
Bull “fighting” doesn't mean a serious danger to
human life. It means, firstly, a disgusting massacre of
aged, worthless horses by the hulls, and, secondly, a
slaughter of the hull by an armed man. Many thousands
of horses and bulls are done to death every year. One
man’s corpse is credited to the bull’s account once in a
while —a long while. The yarns told of the marvellous
dexterity of the “famous” men must be absurdly un-
critical, for if their work were extraordinary how could
they live to arrive at perfection ? The novices among
the'bull-fighters would have an appalling death-rate, and
the “sport” would be suppressed if it were not a soft
thing for even the young beginners. The bull stands a
somewhat better chance against a “star” toreador than
against a novice. The “star” is a pampered bounder,
whose prosperity brings more wine and women than are
good for him. Matillera, the expensive hero of last
week’s funeral, died as the result of a slip in the arena.
Probably he had been drinking overnight.
The late James Cathcart loved to show some of his old
“ prompt’’-books. There was one of “ Othello,” used for
a Liverpool production of the tragedy in 1347, and
another of “Macbeth.” Bound with the “Macbeth”
book were several original sketches of scenes, made by
scenic artist Gordon, father of the late George Gordon
and grandfather of Jack Gordon, who now paints for J.
C. Williamson. The maternal grandfather of George
Lauri was engaged in this same “ Macbeth,” for his notes
appear in the prompt-book. By the way, Cathcart was
acting in Maonland not much more than a year ago, and
it was a severe cold caught at Dunedin which hastened
the veteran’s end.
“T.D.”: Interesting, psychologically, to watch the
women when they listen to comedian Spry’s anecdote of a
bannister-switchbacking slavey who encounters a tin-
tack, when “ all of a sudden she stopped.” From the
very first moment that Mary Jane’s method of amusing
herself is described, femaledom is tickled by a subtle
anticipation of what is to follow, which gradually works
up until Spry divulges that his domestic injured herself ;
then the ladies sit back and chortle hysterically. Is it
reminiscent, or merely because a man is describing the
incident 1
A Sydney weekly having published a yarn
that Mr. Sam Cook, the veteran manager of the
S.M.H., was going to marry again, (it gave the
name of the lady) next week printed a denial
which concluded, humorously enough, with a
fervent assurance that, whether Mr. Cook married
again or not, it didn’t make any difference ; he had
the paper’a warmest respect and esteem anyhow.
A cable :
Replying to Mr. J. B. Robinson’s statement that “ no
part of S’Africa could ever be governed from Downing-
street,” Mr. Chamberlain was wildly applauded when he
declared that neither Boer nor Briton wished to substi-
tute Park-lane (the S'African millionaires' London resi-
dential head-quarters) for Downing-street.
A smart and biting retort, but liable to the re-
joinder that Park-lane has been running the show
so far. It was from Park-lane that war was de-
clared. It is for Park-lane that England has bled
like a stuck pig.
At Redfern Station last week a small
crowd of Home Minister Lyne’s supporters were
seeing him off. As the train pulled out *~ ne
waved their headgear, then an excited -n
rushed up, pulled off his hat and shouted ; “ And
three cheers for Jodge Reid; you people are
only hangin’ on until he comes along.” Someone
at the back suggested that “Reid’s mate Judas
Iscariot” shouldn’t be left out. At that the
excited party simply howled “he’s not a Judas,
he’s Scorch an ah’m Scorch, and ah’ll stick to a
Scorch mon; he’s the chap to save the countree.”
A correspondent:
A Rockhampton-bound train t’other day picked up a
Kanaka at Tungumal, and he shared a carriage with
three girls and three young men. Soon after starting, a
sudden fit of crankiness seized the nigger, who started
singing in his own lingo while he took a rifle and a bag
of cartridges from his swag. Then followed some anxious
moments, as the demented darkey would aim at an imagi-
nary foe through the window on one side, draw back, and
spring panther-like across to the other side, the gaping
barrel meanwhile threatening the six whites. The _irls
made several feints to spring out, but the so-called men
sat in a blue funk, notone daring to raise a whisper. This
went on till Nankin Junction was reached, when the
matter was reported by a man in the next carriage, and
the islander was placed in the guard’s van for conveyance
to Rockhampton. Pity, however, that the girls didn’t
disarm him as an example to the alleged males who sat
and shivered in their company.
The certificate of the captain of the lost
Elingamite has been suspended for a year, and he
has to pay £5O towards the costs of the inquiry.
But supposing it had been found that the vessel
was lost through the default of her owners—that
it was badly-found, or badly-manned, or that the
captain drove recklessly through the fog by the
owners’ orders ? Why should not the managers
and directors of shipping companies or the owners
of ships have certificates also, so that, if they are
found responsible for a disaster, they can be sus-
pended from having any dealings with ships for a
certain time, and made to pay costs ? At present,
there are two alleged remedies against the ship-
ping co. Somebody connected with it may be
prosecuted for manslaughter, but it isn’t
in one case out of a thousand that public
opinion is so worked up as to make any
remedy possible in that way. The other alterna-
tive is that the widows or children of the drowned
can, in some cases, sue for (limited) damages at
their own risk, and be ruined in costs after there
have been five or six appeals. There is little hope
in either of these methods. Cases do turn up now
and then in which the blame rests clearly with
the owners, yet to all intents and purposes the
owners are as unreachable by legal process as the
Emperor of Russia, or as the keeper of a mad-
house used to be in England.
Mr. LUKE VANAMAN, Rockwell, Texas,
writes: —
“ For some years I have been afflicted with ASTHMA,
and Javne’s Expectorant is the only medicine that gives
me relief."
Brave, sturdy, honest old pioneer Radical
journalist Daniel Harrison, of whom a portrait is
published on page 16 of this issue, has gone to rest,
aged 81. He was of literary stock and was
bom at Glasgow in 1818. In 1849 he reached
Melbourne where he set up as a bookseller, but
the gold wave of 1851 swept him to the diggings,
where he chased fortune and wrote for the press—
these are two very different things. Then he
joined his brother James Harrison who had long
previously (in 1840) founded the Geelong Ad-
vertiser and tilings prospered exceedingly with
them until they ventured their all in endeavoring
to perfect James’ inventions in connection with
ice-making and the exportation of frozen-meat.
Of this latter industry the far-seeing and courage-
ous James Harrison and no one else was the true
pioneer. In this great enterprise the industrious
brothers lost their all and to the end of their lives
they remained almost the poorest, though ever the
most uncomplaining, of men. James Harrison,
who died some years ago at over 80, was long
editor of The Age, with the conduct of which
paper Daniel Harrison was also at one time
associated. A curious thing is that The Austra-
lasian, in mentioning the death of Daniel
Harrison, spoke of him as “ a not very widely-
known journalist.” Now Mr. Harrison was at
one time editor of The Australasian. Deceased
was married to a sister, noted as a pianiste, of the
famous entertainer German Reed. His wife and
three sons survive him.


HEN!! Do Not Despair!
■
J
y»
✓
m
£S
From, the original illustrations of the Dr. Sanden's Electric Bell Co., New \ork.
There are many thousands oe you in
Australia to-day, far from medical aid, who think
your case is hopeless and that the die is cast for
you to die early.
Don’t think anything: of the sort
Eor we can by our wonderful system of HOME
TREATMENT treat and cure you in your own homes.
WE MAY NEVER SEE YOU, but if you follow out
our instructions and adopt our system
We will soon make you well.
If your trouble is a serious BLOOD DISEASE, a
chronic NERVE AEEECTION, PARALYSIS,
SCIATICA, LOSS OF VITAL POWER, WEAK-
NESS, INSOMNIA, INDIGESTION or DYSPEPSIA
We will Guarantee to Cure you
in a few short weeks. Remember; we stand behind A
GUARANTEE BOND OE £lOOO for the faithful per-
formance of all medical contracts undertaken. We
have, since we commenced practice a quarter of a
century ago,
Cured many Thousands of Men
who gladly have given us voluntary testimonies in
proof. WE CAN CURE YOU, SURELY, QUICKLY
AND PERMANENTLY. Write for special brochure
of testimonies from eminent patients mailed free.
These will convince you, and perhaps you may find A
SIMILAR CASE TO YOUR OWN. *
OUR FEES are: ADVICE and MEDICINE, ONE POUND ONLY.
WE
GUARANTEE
TO
CURE YOU
QUICKLY,
PERMANENTLY.
MEN ! You never know your fate. This is an old but true saying. While alive you want to
feel STRONG, VIGOROUS, FULL OF THE FIRE OF YOUTH, glad with the GLAD
HAPPINESS OF HEALTH AND POWER. We can make you such men. We can give you
a strength that your fellow-men will envy.
We offer you a Wonderful Treatment.
If you are WEAK IN YOUR VITAL NERVE CENTRES, run down, PALSIED when
you should be POWERFUL, you should wear our Electric “ IN VIGORATOR ” for a few nights
only. Its remedial electric current will SATURATE YOUR VITAL CENTRES with a
soothing powerful current. YOU WILL AWAKE BRIGHT AND REFRESHED. You will
have NO MORE PAIN, no more WEAKNESS; you cannot be weak when you wear this
Electric Belt. It is guaranteed by two leading Sydney electricians. It is modelled after those
used by European scientists. It is the finest cure for Weakness in Men or Women medical science
has ever discovered or can ever know.
OUR
GUARANTEE
TO CURE
IS A
£lOOO
BOND
P a cVe ailH: >^W_
itiJU T= smi' •—ii-
i ‘ ‘“bSSJI
I i,r uIIVo - M?
J: is-tf?, '•fkill';:! :&!?m
jWSWTtfTEN »!**« .«
Ifij-M
&3UPftM.£i '*•'••
- -ZI2T
’}*!
J —<• VUrt'
OUR “ INVIOORATORS” ARE SOLD THUS.
Solid Cold (2oz. 18ot. Cold), £lO ; Solid Silver, £3 ; Electro-Plate, £1 10s; Copper-Plate, £l.
We specially recommend our £1 Electric “BELT.” It is superior to any sold in Australia. It has true Vulcanite
Insulation without which no “Belt” can give a continuous current.
ANY BELT WITHOUT THIS PROCESS IS USELESS IN MEDICAL PRACTICE.
OUR MEDICAL
INSTITUTE.
Here is a photo, of our Insti-
tute, where we have practised
for a quarter-of-a-century, and
where we hold the largest
medical practice in Australia.
Over £lOO,OOO has been spent in making it the most Scientific Institution in
the Southern Medical World. It is presided over by a staff of SPECIAL-
ISTS in BLOOD AND NERVE DISEASES whose skill is unquestionable.
There is no known disease which they have not exhaustively studied. They
all have graduated from reputable colleges in England and America ; and its
Phvsician-in-Chief is the only registered practitioner advertising Electric
Belts in Australia, and who is skilled in the treatment of disease by the com-
bined action of Electricity and Medicine.
Registration of the Chief of the Medical Staff.
The Phvsician-in-Chief of the Medical Staff of the INSTITUTE, DR-
BTCHARD WALLACE, is registered by the MEDICAL BOARDS OF
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, ENG-
T AND and AMERICA. He is a Specialist of unquestionable ability.
STR DOMINIC CORRIGAN, BART, Physician to the Queen, says of
him I entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his profes-
sional qualifications.
MnTE W hen purchasing an Electric "Belt" see that your PHYSICIAN Is
NOT . E hv the Australian and English Medical Boards. You can easily
by referring to the N S W list of Medical Practitioners.
YOU SHOULD READ THIS HANDSOME BOOL
IVrOST USEFUL WORKS ARE OUR MEDICAL VOLUMES. THEY ARE
HIGHLY USEFUL to all people resident in the outlying portions of Aus-
tralia. “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES” contains 500 pages of medical literature,
150 full-page medical plates and anatomical views.
THERE IS NO FURTHER CHARGE THAN ONE SHILLING,
in stamps, post free. It is a literary souvenir from the INSTITUTE and its
SPECIALISTS. No Home Library is complete without it. These books are not
mere pamphlets given away for advertising purposes, but fine, useful volumes ;
genuine medical advisers.
All lovers of first-class literature desire nothing better than to possess a handsome,
instructive book.
“CLINICAL EX-
PERIENCES” con-
tains 30 CHAPTERS
ON DISEASES,
BURNS, SCALDS,
FEVERS, ABSCESS,
SUNSTROKE,
PLAGUE, APO-
PLEXY, SNAKE-
BITE, WOUNDS,
FRACTURES,
LOVE AND MAR-
RIAGE, FEVERS,
etc. It also contains
a vocabulary of 1000
Medical Terms, and a
list of 50 valuable pres-
criptions for household
use. It makes a
splendid presentation
volume for the New
Year. It is the sick
man or woman’s Best
Friend.
X
S
mm/M
W
The
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D , L.R.C.P., E.,
L.F.P.B . E.,
L.M, Physiclan-in-Chief.
Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly attended to.


The saintly people who frown on the
establishment in Victoria of a Foundling
Hospital smile approvingly on the present system
of deliberately slaughtering illegitimates. The
coroners courts show that the system of regis-
tered nurses for the care of these infants
is a deadly one. At the inquest on a four-
months-old infant, recently, the nurse con-
cerned admitted that, since i 895, she had had 26
children in her care, and that out of that number
13 had died. This, too, is the record of a woman
to whom the poh’ce gave a good character, and
declared that her house was always clean.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages.
The Best Collection of Short Stories and Literary
Sketches yet produced in Australia. Price, 4s. 6d.;
postage, 6d.
Jewhannesburg, of all places in the world,
has just found that the barmaid is too sinful an
institution, and baa abolished her.
Mrs. Maybrick, convicted in 1890 of
poisoning her husband, is librarian of the London
prison where she is serving her sentence. She
was sentenced to death, but the sentence was
commuted to penal servitude for life. This
means 20 years, but a ticket-of-leave is possible
after 15 years; so that in a couple of years she
may be liberated and allowed to return to the
States. She had great hopes of being released at
Coronation time.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject- to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Care. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ' have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION 18 NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
■Mr. Hearne. —
"Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother. Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
tour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is verv
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and earned
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here."
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm. Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —l wish to add ray testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the congh was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other 1 remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedv to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfullv,
“ JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne's Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidlv successful under circumstances which
undoubted!v prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
"I nsed your Bronchitis Cure for three of nay family, and it cared each of them In from om to thrM
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”"
•
'* Yonr Bronchitis Care relieved my son wonderfully quick. I onlv crave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should" want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey. via
Quirindi, N.S.W."
•
“ Tour Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMON'S, No. 7 Renny-st, Paddington, Sydney.*
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quicklv cured us both.—B." BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skip ton, Victoria.*
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in tbs time. The diffi-
edty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
"My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers.
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect The core was
absolutely miraculous—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, X.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
" Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria."
“lam very pleased with your Bronchitis Care.
G. SETTER, Boarke, New South Wales.”
The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe.—
Tour medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria."
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had.
STEELE Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 0
I am recommending it to every body.-
“I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried vour medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial —JOHN r
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W."
Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me auite well H norm
Brook’ands, Avoca-street Sooth Yarra, Melbourne." " ’
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria."
•
“ Twit Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previous’v
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have nailed
me through a long and dangerous Alness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria."
•
"The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHTBROW EnvV«
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria." *
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDRED 3 CUBED IN THEIB OWN
CIRCLE.
" The Scrrmnc ArsTSAm* Office,
“ 1© Queen-street, Melbourne.
'* D«ar Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Heame’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“ This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Coll ins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings cf hundreds and hundred* of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe os always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FBOM BBISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ © Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER k 00.,
“ Wholesale Chemists."
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Mr, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some mouths ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sr, Yours faithfuHv,
“R. QCARRILL,
“ Editor Gsk.oS'3 Actsstiskr."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid in crease in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AXD SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot office: jj 0 5 Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street. Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Poniarded by Post to any Address token not obtainable Locally.
THE!
SMELTING & REFINING GO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, Slag's, and Jewellers’ Sweep
For all Information regarding Kates, apply to the Manager, Head Office. Dapio;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 10 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
, etc.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.’’
Lokdok MsurcAt, Record.
‘“Bengef*« Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger’s Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious. nutritive, end Digestible.
Bender's Food is sold by Chemists, &c.. Everywhere
Extracts from Private
L/tters,
" My I*sj little hoy w»s
fed entirely upcn it from
birth, and • heftlthier
child it wvxiW S? di£6colt
to r.nd. My wife sounds
the pr»s» of ' Benders
Fvxxl’ ■bwi*
“If mother knew
of its Tfthie. do other
would be ased.


SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World
Renowned
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
An abrasion, a cut or a scratch is
an opening in the horny skin-wall that
protects the tissues within from the
germs without. VINOLIA contains no
germs, and is specially prepared for
shaving, and for the complexion, and
the nursery.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Harry Mo rant
His ’Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
Y By FRANK RBNAR. \f Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
"3
Carter
There’s SECURITY in
I TITLE
IVER
PILLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
iFURRED TONGUE
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
they TOUCH
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
the
LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter's
SAVE YOUR HAIR
With Shampoos of Cuticura Soap
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling hair,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and dialings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toilet, as well as by millions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting ot Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
Irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. POTTER DRUG
and Chem Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
PIITIPIIRA RPCMUPNT Dll 1C (Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
vU I IUUHIn riLOULVLIII IILLu odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, digestive, aud the purest, sweetest, most successful and
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives.
•' •
THE WORLD’S GRANDEST
».—CIGARETTE
{VIRGINIA GRADS)
No. 555
Absolutely Unique in Quality.
A Revelation to all Cigarette Smoker*.
No. 999
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Ltd., Wholesale Tobacconists,
Wholesale Agents for Australia. wVK SVDNF.V and BRISBANE
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEIr'Y COMFEXITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only oj SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS. 4a.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
“On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
Price, 65., Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Ciarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone Jio. 10US. .^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confldence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered tor
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets ant)
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
ot various sizes supplied.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket,
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and
Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the definition of your
character, very superior for parlor entertainments), the
Mafeking Drub (or Nerve Strengthened, the Vest Pocket
Tubular Microscope (very useful for examining small
objects), the Cinematograph (or book of moving pic-
tures). and, last of all, the great American Puzzle—
“ CAN U DO IT.” Instructions enclosed.
This splendid packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
c Box 8, P. 0., Haymarket. 710 George-st., Sydney.
»
TWO POINTS,OF MUCH IMPORTANCE.
THE
The great success attending the use of the “Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure
due to the two following important facts
(i) Their similarity in composition to human milk ; the constituents being in (a) The readiness with which they can oe digested and assimilated by
the same relative proportions. _ _ _ _ the infant,both foods being as easy of assimilation as maternal milk.
Mixed with water according to the directions a humanized milk is provided. and much more so than ordinary modified or diluted cow’s milk.
The “ Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates. They are in the
form of powder and keep perfectly. Pamphlet on “ infant feeding ” (48 pages) free ,
r from 495 , Bourke Street , Melbourne.
Allen & Hanburys, Ltd., Qourt, Lombard St, London.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS.


NOW READY
PEARS’ ANNUAL
Christmas, 1902
Published by the Pb,opbietors :
A. & F. PEARS, Ltd., 71-75 New Oxford-st., London, W.C.
Containing an Old-Fashioned Romance, entitled—
MERRKHILP’S MILLION
By R. E. FRANCILLON
With 22 Illustrations in Black and White by FRANK DADD, R. 1., in Handsome
Colored Cover.
With the above are —
4 LARGE
PRESENTATION PLATES
Printed in Colors in the Best and Most Artistic Style
of the Chromo-Lithographic Art
1. A Breezy Day.
From the Original Pai
Size 28 by 19J.
2. Impudent Hussies !
From the Original Paint
Size 23$ by 18.
3. Spring Blossoms.
From the Original Painting by BIRKET FOSTER, R.W.S.
Size 28 by 19$. Printed in 13 Colors.
From the Original Painting by Miss M. GROVES.
Size 23$ by 18. Printed in 13 Colors.
AND
4. The Ferry.
From the Original Painting by W. S. COLEMAN.
Size 16$ by Ilf. Printed in 13 Color .
THE WHOLE ENTIRELY PRINTED IN ENGLAND.
Sold l Booksellers and Newsagents all over the World.
No. F7989.— 9ct. Gold Leaf and Wishbone
Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. Gs37.—Solid Silver Bean Shape
Match Box, 8s 6d.
No. FBl9O, —9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar, Leaf
and Heart Brooch, 8s 6d.
No. Gl4.— I The Nurse?’ Watch, Keyless,
Open Face, Engraved Silver Case, fine
Jewelled Lever Movement, Warranted
Reliable, 32s fid.
We have looked long for a good
Nurses Watch, and at last wa
believe we have secured the
very one wanted.
No. 112. —Handsome 9ct. Gold and Fine
Amethyst Brooch, 18s 6d.
Our Variety makes Suitable Selection Easy.
BUYING as we do for Eight Stores, each as Well-Stocked as our Sydney one, means that we
have advantages offered us such as no Jewellery business in Australia can claim. We have
our own warehouse in Hatton Garden, London, manned by Experts who see more goods
in 24 hours than most buyers see in 1 2 months. You see thus that we can offer you the
very pick of the Home market at fascinatingly low prices. We don’t keep all the advant-
ages we get to ourselves —we pass them on to you. A most important point, and one we adhere
to is, we never sacrifice the quality for the sake of being able to quote a very low price for an
article. Quality is our first consideration. Remember this when you want anything in our line,
as quality must count with you as well as with us. Illustrated Catalogues Free on application.
Ko. 88341. Solid Silver and Pearl Book-marker, 3Jin., 4a ; larger, 6s 6d.
No. F 7550. —9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar and
Leaf Brooch, 8s 6d.
No. FBlB6.—The Latest
Lace Pin, Emu or
Kangaroo, 7s 6d.
No. F7731.—Novel Style Salt
Cellar, with Spoon, Silver-plate,
48 6d.
No. FB2ls— Cut-Glass and Solid
Silver Toilet Bottle, 5J inches
high, 22s 6d.
G»
HggQ
■iiSainiiiiii
No. F7065.—9ct. Gold, two-bar Ornamented
Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. G29B.— Polished English Oak and Nickel-mounted Double
Inkstand, £1 ss.
No. E4933.—Fruit Dish of Pretty
China, 7 inches square, strong
Silver-plated Stand, 7s 6d.
No. F29s6—Silver-plated Fern
Pot, handsomely chased •
4in., 22s 6d ; siin., 37s 6d!
No. Ps9oB.—Solid Silver Bowl on Ebony Stand, sJinches
high, inches wide, £lO 10s ;in best Plate, 84s.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free*
No. FssBB.—Case containing- 2 Pearl and Silver-
plated Butter Forks, 14s 6d.
No. E8759.-—Best Quality Silver-plated Tile Centre
Teapot Stand, 10s 6d.
No. E6797.—9ct. Gold Brooch, set Sapphire, Ruby
and Diamond, 16s 6d.
No. F493B.—Case of 2 Cut-Glass
Silver Mounted Knife Rests, 11/6.
No. F 8704. Remarkable
Value. Diamond, Ruby and
Sapphire Scarf Pin or Pin
and Stud, Fine Gold Settings,
£3 10s. ' •
No. Es627.—Stron-r 9ct. Gold Twist Bracelet.
A Pretty Style, 32s 6d
Wallflowers and a Theory.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was too absurd ! A man of his years—dreaming
like a young fool in his teens —and just because of
a bowl of wallflowers on the table. Surely there
had been wallflowers every season. Why had he
not noticed them ? Why should they cry out for
notice now ? So long ago—l 3 years—that splendid
September. The fragrance of the blossoms
floated in at memory’s gates.
How slim and graceful she had looked in the
moonlight, her eyes gleaming, the shining hair
framing the spirituelle pallor of her face. The
hot blood coursing through his veins was checked
when he looked down into the depths of those
mysterious eyes, and the passionate avowal was
frozen on his lips. It seemed too brutal to speak
of marriage; but they sat long in the silver light,
and his reverent homage to his saint brought him
a calm happiness. Afterwards he gently kissed
the drooping wallflower he had begged from her.
And the next night—what a vision she was !
The moonlight pallor gone, she was a glowing
woman, smiling, chatting, the wallflowers nest-
ling closely to her bosom, her eyes dancing.
And the night he spoke, that great wonderful
night, under the solemn pine-tree, through whose
close branches the moon sent sly little gleams of
light. His words had rushed out; every sentence
had che same melodious refrain : “ I love you ! ”
Her eyes, those haunting eyes with their strange
depths, they confessed what the soft lips trembled
over. He had taken her, crushed her close to
him. She was his, his; and in his triumph he
wanted to catch her and carry her away. Then
came love’s humility, and brokenly he told her he
was not nearly good enough for her; but he would
try, yes, he would try hard to be more worthy ;
and the white fingers rested silencingly on his
lips.
Wallflowers and pine ! How the perfumes
mingled ! how sweet the whole world was !
“ John! ”
The man started and turned eagerly.
“John ! the man has been twice about the gas-
bill. Ido wish to goodness you would attend to
it ; you can’t expect me to go trapesing to the
office, and ”
“Certainly not, my dear; I’ll attend to it
to-morrow ” —and he rose hurriedly.
The woman idled about the room a little. Her
gown was carelessly fixed, her hair was twisted up
anyhow, and the dark eyes looked out coldly from
puckered brows.
The man studied the details quietly—from the
untidy slipper to the carelessly-placed hairpin;
then, as his wife left the room, he thought, “ The
uncomfortable Schopenhauer was right in one tenet
at least 1 ”
Idly he took the book down and read :
Nature has provided the girl with the means of pro-
ducing what is theatrically called a “ startling effect,” by
endowing her, for a few years, with beauty and fasci-
nation, at the cost of the whole of her remaining life, in
order that during these years she may so far fascinate a
man that he may be carried away to undertake the care
of her during her lifetime.
He smiled, a little pitiably, as his nostrils
caught the scent of the wallflowers again.
N.S.W.
STBAY.
The pea-rifle brought a fine harvest to the
undertakers down South during the recent “ fes-
tive season,” no less than 14 cases of “acci-
dentally ” being recorded.
“Jimmy S.” writes re mine-ventilation :
Astonishing that furnace-ventilation in gassy coal-
mines is tolerated in any civilised country. In some
mines where extensive workings necessitated additional
power, and a fan was introduced capable of ventilating
the whole mine, rather than alter the airways and abolish
the furnace, the fan has been kept at half-speed. The
primary method was natural ventilation. The ventilating
current always ensues from a difference in pressure
between the air in the upcast and the downcast shaftr •
due to difference in temperature. About 50 to 60ft.
below the surface we strike a point unaffected by solar
radiation, called the “invariable stratum” or “line
of constant temperature.” Every additional 60ft.
downwards means an average increase of 1 deg
Fahr. Hence, if we have two shafts of different depths,
the heat imparted by the strata, workmen, and lamps
gives the air a slight tendency to circulate between them.
In winter, with two shafts of different depths, due to a
difference in surface level, the shorter shaft would be the
down-cast and the deeper one the up-cast. In summer
the temperature of the air-column in the deeper shaft
remains about the same, but the shorter shaft is much
warmer, and the ventilation-course is thus reversed.
Several miniature winters and summers cause many
reversals in the course of a shift. Frequently there is no
appreciable difference between the mine and atmospheric
temperature, and therefore no ventilation. Small wonder
so many old miners suffer from “ miners’ asthma.”
Various means of producing artificial ventilation have
been tried ; such as compression in the downcast shaft
by a waterfall, air-pump, and compressing-fan. Natural
ventilation suggested the heating of the upcast shaft by
steam-jet or by furnace. It was soon found that a steam-
jet in a wet shaft was immediately transformed into a
waterfall, thereby driving the bad air back into the
workings. But natural ventilation and steam-jets had
this advantage over furnaces —they could not ignite
gas. The safest, most efficient, and economical
method of reducing the density in the upcast
shaft is the exhaust-fan. Rule 2, sec. 47, of N.S.W.
Coal Mines Regulation Act allows the furnace fire
at mines opened after the passing of the Act (1896),
to be fed with return-air, provided such air is rendered
uninflammable by dilution. Where the reverse obtains
the return-air must be carried off clear of the fire by
means of a “ dumb drift." In other words the fire must
be fed with pure air from the downcast shaft, and the
return-air either traverse by a separate drift, or enter
the chimney some distance above the fire-grate. With a
“ dumb drift ” it takes an additional 10 horse-power to
produce the same air current. There is nothing in this
rule to prevent almost every colliery in N.S.W. (newly-
opened S. Maitland collieries excepted) from feeding their
fires with a mixture of dynamite and “patriotic-
meeting ”-gas. Rule 3 is intended, in the event of an
explosion, “ to insure the safety of mechanical ventilating
contrivances introduced into new mines.” Fans are
not “ introduced into,” but are connected with,
a mine and are therefore seldom affected by an explosion.
The main principle of furnace ventilation is that the
greater the heat imparted to the upcast air-column, the
more efficient the ventilation. How can a furnace be
protected from the effects of an explosion caused by
itself? Again, there is a popular idea that the force of
an explosion is always towards the downcast shaft,
against the air-current, whereas it simply takes the line
of least resistance. It often travels against the wind
because the air-current offers less resistance than a solid
wall. The force of the explosion always takes the
shortest road to either shaft. If the shortest road or the
smallest friction happens to be towards the upcast shaft,
brick stoppings are often kicked out, and unexploded
gases, liberated from old workings, course along with the
tempest. As the magnet is to the pole, so are these gases
to a furnace ; and a second explosion occurs, shattering
the furnace and destroying every hope of restoring
ventilation. Section 20 certainly provides a remedy for
dangerous practices not expressly prohibited in the Act.
But —witness Parliamentary apathy re “ harassing ” of
the Mines department by Jonathan May.


EDWARDS’
p
1
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCERS RESTORER
The Very Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EYERY MODERN TOILETt
mi
Restores the Hair
Promotes the Growth
Arrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roots
Preserves the Hair
Removes Dandruff
Allays all Irritation
*HARLENE'
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children’s Hair.
ami
V*
m
7
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle•
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle of Druggists &c., all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “MARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
The Story of the Nymph.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The things set down here did not happen yester-
day, nor the day before, nor yet so very long ago
either, because the conditions of settlement in
Australia do not allow of any great historical
remoteness.
The place of their happening was a Northern
port.
The fog had lifted, showing her at anchor— a
fore-and-aft schooner, stoutly built. She had no
pretensions to beauty, but her building had cost a
year’s work. Two of her builders stood on the
pier looking at her, with no little light of satis-
faction in their eyes. One of these was Chris.
Anderson, coasting skipper, and the other Ralph
George, his man. As they stood watching her
from the shore two women joined .them, and they
all four began to talk together.
One of the women had dark eyes and a pale
face, and she said, speaking of the schooner:
“How proud you ought to feel, Chris. Anderson,
in seeing your work done at last! ”
There was a note of coldness in her voice, which
perhaps the man did not fail to notice ; but, never-
theless, her words were a pleasant morsel to Chris.
Anderson, who was not without vanity, and his
eyes sparkled. “She’s not so very pretty, per-
haps,” he said—and then he looked from the pile-
faced woman to the other woman beside her •
“but she’s strong and well-fashioned, and that’s
all that a man of my taste wants.”
Ralph, with eyes fixed on the women’s faces,
watched the effect of his master’s words. Rachel
Raymond, the dark-eyed woman, turned her face
away, as though to watch a wheeling sea-bird.
In her heart she was saying, “Does lie love me?
Is he faithless? Is this man, too, a liar?”
The other woman, Jeanette Hazard, gold-
haired, of robust build, with lips like ripe, red
fruit, smiled richly at the skipper’s speech'. She
did not look away, but sought his eyes, and in
heart she said. “One must love to win. This
man is mine. I have won him.”
They talked on of the schooner and kindred
subjects, of ships built at the same port, their
fates and fortunes, and of how those who built
them had grown rich or gone down to paupers’
graves, and, presently, one of the women said,
“ But you have not shown us the figurehead yet,
Chris.”
Anderson looked towards the other woman as
though inviting a word from her. She stood
there, pale, uninterested, emotionless.
“Yes, let us see it,” sfie said, but without
enthusiasm.
He gave a nervous little nod to Ralph, and
Ralph got aboard and soon was busy at the cords
which bound a flag around the figurehead. The
two women watched him, one seemingly without
enthusiasm ; the other with a face put forward,
eager eyes, and lips slightly parted. As the flag
fell away from the figurehead there was a laugh
and a sob, but the sob w;is not heard because the
laugh oversounded it. The figure was that of a
woman —the carving of the woman Chris, loved.
11 It is Jeanette ! ” cried Rachel.
f, Oh, Rachel!” cried Jeanette, “I do not
think I am half so beautiful.”
Rachel made no answer ; all was evident, the
figurehead proved it.
“What are you going to call the schooner?”
asked Jeanette as they turned to go.
“The Nymph,” said Chris. Anderson.
“Why not the ‘Coquette’?” asked Rachel,
bitterly.
Jeanette flushed and her eyes darkened. Hot
words crowded into her mouth, but she controlled
them.
“At any rate the Coquette has won,” she
thought to herself.
11.
Rachel and Chris, had grown up together.
Rachel was daughter of the lighthouse-keeper,
and Chris.’s father was a shipwright. They had
gone to school together, where they sat in the
same seat and read out of the one book. They
had plucked flowers on Sunday afternoons in the
flower season, and bound them into posies. They
had hunted the bush for honey-trees. They had
shared each other’s secrets and made a common
treasury of their prizes. If Rachel, walking
through the bush with her eyes about her, spied
the scarlet body of a parrot disappearing in a tree-
hole, she would write a line on her slate and show
it to Chris., and Chris, would be jumping out of
his boots —all eagerness and far thoughts till
school was dismissed. Then they would shed the
rest of their companions by some little artifice or
another, and Rachel would lead the way to the
treasure-tree and stand below with spread apron,
while Chris, climbed the trunk, and if the young
birds were feathered, rob the nest and flutter them
down to the girl underneath. Often when the
tide was out, Chris., with trousers above his knees,
would tread the mud flats for cockles, while
Rachel with a looped frock followed him, bag in
hand, to gather his harvest. All the boys and
girls called them sweethearts. Chris, worried at
the sound of the word, but it only made Rachel
merry. There was another coy who hated to
hear the term applied to them —a quiet, grey-eyed
boy of Chris.’s age.
One day Rachel and her friend went honey-
hunting. They took their lunch, as they intended
to pass a long day in the open. They went from
hill to hollow, the boy with a catapult, and the
girl with a stick for snakes. The trees were tall,
so tall that a parrot on a top limb seemed scarcely
larger than a swallow. Sometimes a hock of
white cockatoos would sweep through the foliage
overheard, screaming harshly. Now and again
they found an opossum in a log, and his bright,
frightened eyes would peer out at them from the
semi-darkness. They caught lizards, some of
them colored a bright bronze, and some that had
preposterously large mouths, yellow as saffron.
Once they heard a lyre-bird calling, and they trod
gently, avoiding dry twigs because of the snap
they might make, but all their trouble went tor
nothing, as they never came within sight of the
bird. They found near a clear pool the skeleton
of a great kangaroo, but the tail was nussmg, and
that showed that it died by man’s hand. A little
further on they crossed a creek on stepping-
stones, but‘these were like no other stepping-
stones in the world-being a row of bullocks
skulls, horned and white as lime. They went
down many valleys and up many lulls, and the
shadows grew longer all the time till the sun sank.
Then suddenly they paused and turned about.
They had gone very far. 1
another that it would be almost dark before they
got back. Then, though they were tired they
walked quickly, Chris, in the lead and Rachel at
his heels ; but the twilight deepened as they
moved, and still no break m the trees showed
before them. In a little while they ran, but their
limbs wore stiff, and, after a time, they stopped.
“?veS k loOke<, a ‘ K “ hel - “"'i Rachel-, lips
onttirTthorTLS 1 now - a they blundered
had "ZshJd M 1 ’ SWl , ng,ng hack after Chris.
madilktTe’snnt of v', ? ,r l across face, and
Sht* did s P ot;i of blood start from her cheeks
S?hirt pShfV not let Chris kSw
kind of h,T m her i ,ie maki "B< of th.t
when therein * Afc can suffer >n silence ; but
drops from her f a to a j fe{ l k * he washed the red
was P there tha/T" 2 nd they rested aw hile. It
ii re "hat tiredness conquered them and
backs X ?y *k bund * lo f?< and with their
® T S 4 sat down side by side.
saidßacher W ' at *' ey are thinkin S at home?”
Chris, made no answer.
round alxmt ne the,n liC 'n ned -, in the under growth
v»;i;l*i ?a them> The sden ce was so all-pre-
aihng that there seemed no living thing in the
S XhSnr'r- f>™-
scmhl cr lp f u nd two >' ears before in the
mafW W a He pu ‘ tlle tl,ou ght away from
thatheS h»t it recurred with such persistency
blup anrl i? c '® ’ you remember how
ue and swollen the dead man’s tongue was?”
Rachel, with a little shudder, answered, “Oh
Chris., don’t talk of it! ” ’
Tt i \ifTnrt d f C h ,n ?i Up J a V d rushed through the trees.
Roo fer? I the d * ead ,l eaves and flung them into
/ A, »ol d story recurred to the girl.
E ', lgene Aram ’’ or the “ Babes in the
beS ' A aDy mte lfc seemed like a burial
f “ D jJ yc ! u hf ' ar that?”—it was a quick whisper
S alii a ? d tJ, T e S ,rl sat up and listened
all her might. It came again, presently, a
bhort, harsh scream, the cry of something in
eree pain. It was not human ;it needed articul-
ation. Accompanying it came a sound of blun-
® r r ' n ?i a - s of a blind thing moving.
-I he girl andi boy stared into the dark. Even in
daylight the situation would have had its terrors.
Darkness made it appalling. An old bogey of
her nursery days, invented for the purpose of
keeping her from straying, recurred to Rachel.
1 hey told her that a lion haunted the bush. As
she aged she came to laugh at the story. But to-
f * 1 mysterious cry in her ears, all her
old fears, tenfold magnified, returned to her. The
tilings of our imagination take shape in the dark-
ness, and when the mind is overwrought the
unseen is terrible. Certainly, after all, this might
be the lion ravenous, wounded, savage, smelling
her blood upon the wind. She crept closer to the
boy, and put her arms about his neck. But the
imagination is inexorable ; it allows of no consola-
tion. It isolates its victim beyond the reach of
comfort. No doubt she only fancied it, vet it
seemed that the boy shrank from her, appeared
unwilling to be associated in the sacrifice to which
she considered herself doomed—surrendered her,
as it were, to the fate which menaced her.
, or a whole hour the tiling cried and blundered
in the darkness. Then the sounds grew faint and
passed away, and, a while after, the boy put his
head on the girl’s lap and slept.
It is not easy to trace the beginning of love—
that first pressure of hands, that glance of eyes
which gives outward sign that the swift, sweet,
subtle poison is working in the blood. In this
hour, with Rachel, love began. Her hands wan-
dered through the boy’s hair, and no doubt her
touch soothed him ; for he slept well.
In the morning, they bathed their feet in the
creek, and chewed wild hop-leaves to stay their
hunger. They moved through the bush swiftly.
The newness of the day filled them with confidence.
In an hour or two—before noon, at any rate —they
would surely be home. What good things there
would be to eat! The stories they had to tell
would make them heroes for a long time. No one
ever had such adventures as they. Ralph George
had passed many nights in the bush—his father
was a timber-getter—but had Ralph ever heard
the sounds that had come to them ? Not he ; no
one in the world had. After all, it was well worth
while being lost for a little time to have such an
experience.
The hour went by, then another hour, then an-
other, and, at last, the tree-trunks cast no
shadow. It wa's noon. They were hot —how hot
they were, and their heads seemed full of wheels.
They were hungry, too, so hungry that they
almost could have gone down on their knees and
eaten the earth. Yes, they were very hungry,
but not so hungry as they were hot. At times,
they strayed apart, but it was always Chris, who
strayed from Rachel. The girl kept close to him
now, not for consolation, as on the previous night,
but as his consoler.
It might have been an hour after noon that
Rachel paused suddenly. Before her lay a thick,
black pool of blood, on which flies feasted. She
looked at it without amazement. It amazed
neither of them. They were too amazed at their
own hunger to feel astonishment at anything else.
There were drops of blood on the leaves leading
away from the pool. Here, at any rate, was
something to follow. It seemed they had been
wandering aimlessly all the time. It was necessary
they should have guidance. Anything in the
world would do to guide them. The trail of
blood, failing any other clue. They followed it.
In some places the blood was red ; where the sun
had found it out it was black. Black or red it
was always a flies’ feast. Now and then they
came on ii pool that told of plenteous bleeding.
At length, they saw the cause, of it all. A horse
stood drooping in front of them. A stick of wood
about the thickness of a man’s arm was thrust into
his chest. The stick was red and wet. In a
moment of wild panic, perhaps with dingoes at
his heels, he had run upon it. In a little while he
would die, his heaving flanks and dull eyes told
that. Tliis,' i: then, was the cause of last night’s
mysterious noises. But they felt no interest now
either fin Thp noises or their cause. All they had
to do was to go on. They passed under the
broken limb of a tall tree. The limb was not
completely severed, one part from the other, and
the leafv end of it rested on the ground. Rachel
said, afterwards, that it seemed like passing
through a doorway into a great green cathedral.
They must have walked in a circle after this,
because some time afterwards they saw this limb
to their left, and later, they had an impression
that they saw it again. It lay somewhere to the
right on the second occasion.
Ralph George, the quiet, grey-eyed boy found
them sitting on a log. Both had lost their hats,
and their faces were scratched all over. He gave
them bread and a drink of water, and then l.e
took Rachel, who limped painfully, round the
waist and she put her arm around his neck, and
in' such fashion they moved away. Though the
jm-l did not know till long after, that was the
happiest day that Ball h had ever had.
111.
The new barmaid from Sydney caused a flutter
i„ the district. She was tall and buxom and h d
Lit- of an angry gold. The young fellows went
mad about her. They talked of and teas nil
leanette Hazard till there seemed to-bo no ofc-or
woman in the world. They fluttered around h»
like a lot of silly moths—very content to be
accounted silly so long as they were allowed to
nutter. Anyway, if the wings were burned, the
burning gave a certain amount of pleasure. As
for Jeanette Hazard, admiration to her was as a
tine wine on the palate.
Anderson owned two schooners, and was
thinking of building a third when Jeanette came
mi He had sailed in charge of one,
the \V lute Duck, without seeing her, and it was
some months before he came back. She was on
the pier one day, when the White Duck sailed up
the port and dropped anchor close in. A boat
put off from the schooner, and Chris. Anderson
landed, “Who is that?” she asked of a com-
pamon as the young man went by.
Chris. Anderson,” was the answer.
“ A fine man,” she commented.
Chris. Anderson went to visit Rachel.
“Who is the. new young lady?” he asked of
her.
“Jeanette Hazard.”
If then and there Rachel had taken a dislike to
Jeanette there would have been little cause for
wonder. But Rachel trusted Chris. A hundred
times he had vowed his love for her, and it had
been sealed —lovers know how. To doubt him
would have seemed something like a sacrilege.
“till, Rachel did not know Jeanette. She did
not know her history. It is enough to say she
had one.
Are you going to build a new schooner, Mr.
Anderson ? ” asked Jeanette.
The young man looker! at her. Her face was
full of passion in repose. He thought of Rachel,
and mentally compared the two women. They
were like roses, but one was a red rose.
“Yes, we start next week,” he said.
Of Ralph, Jeanette Hazard asked : “ How long
do you expect to be at work on the schooner ? ”
“ A year, may be,” Ralph replied.
. Jeanette smiled. She would have plenty of
time, at any rate.
Months went by and the drama took definite-
ness. It is easy to capture an unsuspecting heart.
One has so much time to spread the net, and cast
the toils, that the evil is well nigh done ere the
victim becomes aware that his freedom has
vanished. Then it is mostly too late to struggle.
Wnn Jeanette and Chris, it began with a walk
under the stars, between the pier and the hotel.
Chris, was silent most of the time, but Jeanette
talked every step of the way merrily, meaningly
perchance. The next time Chris, met Rachel lie
thought her face very pale—a trifle too pale, in
fact. A little color in her cheeks would be an
improvement. He thought of the rich color in
Jeanette’s cheeks. A month afterwards he said :
“ Are you coming to the dance to-morrow night,
Rachel ? ”
“Father is sick,” Rachel replied; “I cannot
go.”
Chris, did not look half so dejected as he should
have looked. A man cannot make his features
the pliable instruments of hypocrisy with such
ease as can a woman. Still, he contrived to ap-
pear disappointed, and Rachel said: “ But you
go, Chris. Don’t let me keep you away.”
Chris, went, and, in spite of Rachel’s absence,
managed to make himself happy—managed so
well, in fact, that certain information reached
Rachel’s ears, and Rachel started from her dream
witli a bitter word on her lips.
“ He carves like an artist,” said Ralph one day,
as he and Jeanette talked together. “He is at
work on the figure-head for the new schooner.”
“Have you seen it? What is it to be?”
Jeanette asked, carelessly.
Ralph laughed quietly.
‘ ‘ The image of the girl he loves.”
Jeanette’s lips parted in a half-laugh.
“ Who is that ? ” she asked.
Ralph looked at her doubtingly.
“Surely you know,” he said.
“Of course, of course,” she hastened to say,
and, still with her eyes searching Ralph's, she
said again, “Of course.”
“ He is very secret with it,” Ralph added.
Jeanette nodded.
“ It is a curious fancy,” she remarked.
“A family fancy,” explained Ralph; “for
four generations his family have been sea-farers.
They always had such an image for their figure-
head. They said it brought them luck.”
“ How strange ! ” mused Jeanette.
And yet it was not strange. Since men first
learnt to sail the seas they have carried the faces
of their loved ones in their hearts. Is it any
wonder, then, that Chris. Anderson should desire
to a little further make the inward devotion an
outward act, and carry such a resemblance at his
ship’s bow. It would go before him in storm and
peril, guiding him always, and is there any better
guide in the world than Love? But, if the love
be not pure, is there any worse betrayer ?
IV.
So ! and Jeanette had triumphed—no neea for
words. The figure-head had proved it. Ilachel
wrapped up the ring and trinkets that Chris, had
given her, and she gave the packet to Ralph.
“ Take it to him,” she said, with a sad smile,
“and —and—and tell him I wish him luck.”
Ralph looked for a word to comfort her. “If I
had the choice, Rachel,” he began, but she inter-
rupted him, speaking hoarsely, “ Stop ! I will
never more trust any man. ”
Nevertheless, Ralph could have kissed her
tremulous white hand, could have put it on his
bosom and covered it with kisses.
Chris, and Jeanette were married shortly
after. It was such a wedding as the little
place had never seen before, for Jeanette was
fond of show. When Chris, was away
trading, Jeanette stayed with Ralph’s mother.
As for Rachel, she helped to tend the light-
house lantern, and at night watched the ships
pass across its path of light from darkness to dark-
ness, as lives journey through a time of love.
Ralph sailed with Chris., but, when the Nymph
was in port and Chris, with Jeanette, ho went up
to the lighthouse and sat with Rachel. He did
not care to talk of Jeanette or Chris., and there
were few other subjects which mutually interested
them. All the time he wanted to say one thing,
and all else beside that thing seemed tame as a
twice-told tale. After an hour or two of broken
conversation he would leave, cursing the cowardice
that tied his tongue. Once, however, she gave
him a skein of silk to hold, and while he held it,
her fingers played round about his hands as she
unwound it. The touch of them was a sweet in-
timacy—a promise.
A year after the marriage Ralph came to her.
“ They are going away,” he said.
Where ? ” she asked.
“To the Pacific Islands,” he replied, “on a
trading cruise.”
Her pale face was bent down over her sewing,
and he could not see her eyes.
“She, too?” she said.
“Yes —it will be a long trip. She would not
stay behind.”
She stitched tremulously: the stitching grew
irregular.
“ I am going, too, ” he said.
She looked up at him.
“ Are you ? ” she asked calmly. “I am sorry.”
Suddenly his quietude gave way.
“ Oh, Rachel,” he said, “ I love you ! ”
She threw her sewing from her and rose. Her
eyes flashed.
“ Then suffer ! ” she said.
Ralph drew back his face as though he had been
struck on the forehead.
“ Is that all ? ” he asked.
“All,” she answered.
He walked to the door, and there paused.
“ But 1 will come again, Rachel,” he said as he
passed out, taking the girl’s pale face and dark
eyes with him.
And what of the girl ? Well, that night when
Rachel closed her eyes their lids were wet.
Two years went by before he fulfilled his pro-
mise. In the interim Rachel’s father had died,
and she felt the need of a life on which to lean.
“His wife left him,” said Ralph, “in Auck-
land. She went away with an American. He
Itecame unbearable afterwards and took to drink.
In a drunken fit he wrecked the Nymph. He
talks of coming home again. He says there is one
here who will make him happy.”
Rachael smiled.
“He should have thought of that before,” she
said.
“It was an evil genius that brought them
together,” Ralph remarked.
Rachel blushed.
“Evil for him, you mean,” she said.
Ralph nodded. He was remarking how beauti-
fully her dark hair matched the paleness of her
forehead. He grew desperate,
“ He is coming home again, ”
She lifted her eyes.
“You have said that twice.”
“ And he must not find you single, or he
will say ”
“ Just so, but whom am Ito marry ?”
Ralph jumped to his feet, and ran to her
with outstretched hands. She gave herself up to
him, laughingly.
“But it is revenge?” said Ralph, somewhat
gloomily.
“More in love than in revenge,” she replied,
smiling. And perhaps ’twas so.
RODERIC QUINN.
With the advent of the different brands of
motors, railways are likely to have a bad time with
passenger traffic in big cities. Now we hear of a
formidable rival to them in road traffic—the dip-
lock engine, which, instead of running on wheels,
lays down a set of rails and rollers, on which it
slides. It will carry a load of 100 tons on ordinary
roads mile3 an hour at a cost of three pence
per five tons per mile.
The real Kitchener, by “an Intelligence
officer ” at close quarters, in the new book, “On
the Heels of De Wet ” :
That co'd blue eye which is the basilisk of the British
army? The firm jaw and the cruel mouth, of which we
read in 189 S? Presumably this is only the stereotyped
military hero that the papers always keep “ set up ’’ for
the advent of successful generals. None of it was visible
here. A round, red, and somewhat puffy face. Heavy
moustaches covering a somewhat mobile mouth, at the
moment inclined to smile. Eyes just anyhow ; heavy,,
but not overpowering eyebrows. In fact, a very ordinary
face of a man scarcely past his prime. Ilard y a figure
that you would have remarked if it had not been for the
gilt upon his hat—in fact, it was all a disappointing dis-
covery.


i*
m
\
y.
W/y
n?
&
£
/
J
Kidney Trouble Affects the Bach First.”
ACHING BACKS.
When the hack aches —when it is lame or weak —when it is easily tired —the
Kidneys are giving you plain warning—and it is a serious warning, for kidney disease
is the'most dangerous of all diseases.
But it is NOT the back which aches, it is the Kidneys aching beneath, and
backache is their cry for help.
Doan Backache Kidney Fills
Used by the Quakers for 70 years.
Cure all Kidney Ills—cure urinary trouble—and all dangerous disorders of the
Kidneys and the Bladder.
They act on the Kidneys and Bladder only.
They do that one thing only and they do that one thins well.
Read the testimony of your neighbors.
RANDWICK PROOF.
Mr. W. Hibberd, St. Paul's-street. Randwick. this
citv. savs : “For years I have been a sufferer from back-
ache. in mv work I have to stoop a good deal, and pro-
longed exertion of this kind would double me up with
pain. After stooping I would be scarcely able to stand
up straight again, but would have to unbend gradually,
and cret the kinks out of my back. I used many sorts of
medicine for this ache, but with i*x>r success. The
doctors I saw were also puzzled. I think. I procured a
box of Doan's Backache Kidney Pills, and I am very
pleased to tell vou that these pills gave me almost imme-
diate relief. Thev went right to the root of my trouble.
The pains diminished after further treatment, and at
length totally disappeared. I shall always recommend
these pills for backache trouble. .
Twelve months later Mrs. Hibberd states : it is
now more than a year ago since my husband used Doan s
Backache Kidnev Pills for backache. lam now enabled
to sav that the pills wrought a permanent cure in his
case ' The pains never returned since. I can speak with
conviction on the marvellous way they acted in his case.
He is very enthusiastic about the pills, and is always
recommending them for such ailments as the pills are
meant for. He had been bad over 10 years, so you can
see it is no common remedy that could cure him the way
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills did.”
SURRY HILLS PROOF
“ Mr. Jos. Grieve. Wood and Coal Merchant, IS
Albion street. Surry Hills, states : " For the jvvst five or
six years I suffered from kidney disorder, which caused
me constant pain. The symptoms of this terrible com-
plaint were severe backache and irregularity of the
secretions of the kidneys. The pain had such complete
mastery over me that at times I could not rise from my
bed. 1 went to doctors to see what their skill cou!d do
for me, but gained no benefit from them. I tried
medicines with no better results. One day I saw an
advertisement regarding a remedy for kidney trouble,
and. as it was not a nostrum said to core everything
under the sun, I procured a box of Doan's Backache
Kidney Pills. I felt a sense of relief right from the first
dose. My pain gradually grew less, and finally disap-
peared, as did the other symptoms of kidney disorder."
This is Mr. Grieve s testimony given 12 months
later: * ‘ Twelve months ago I was cured by Doan's
Backache Kidney Pills. I am still a believer in these
pills, having never had a return of my complaint since,
except on one occasion, when I got wet, but a few doses
of these pills quickly set me right again. I had been a
terrible sufferer with the kidneys, and nothing ever
gave me relief but Doan's Backache Kidney Pills, and
thev cured me. If I hear anybody complaining of a bad
back I always tell them of the medicine which cured me.”
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills are for Sale by all Chemists and Stores at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes
15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
•* Don't be They cure o*<r neighbors
they will cMir
Body and Soul.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Saunders M ‘Shoddy is mighty of purse.
Saunders is burdened with many a curse,
Saunders is blest with an army of slaves
Ready to dive at his nod in their graves.
Does not his coin rattle, shining and new i
Does not he pay men their regular due ?
Has he not bought for a pitiful dole
Minions who wait on him —body and soul ?
Were they not bought for a pitiful dole,
Body and soul of them —body and soul ?
Saunders is moral—right through to his spine ;
Doth not his visage with godliness shine ?
Lo ! how he takes in the temple his place,
Serving the Lord as a pillar of grace!
Lo ! how his dollars in public do fall !
Lo ! how he comes when the newspapers call!
Striplings and maidens and elderly men,
See how they swelter and sweat in his den !
Were they not bought for a pitiful dole ?
Body and soul of them —body and soul !
Out of his warehouses daily they stream ;
Out of his factories mark how they teem :
Servile in spirit but free men in name :
God ! how they tremble, so timid and tame !
Little they patter of freedom, I trow,
(Brand of the Helot is plain on their brow);
Heritage none have they here in the soil,
More than a grave at the end of their toil.
Were they not bought for a pitiful dole?
Body and soul of them —body and soul!
Daily they feed on a diet of Wrong :
Bid them not strive—for their fetters are strong;
Are they not babes whom a whisper may quell?
Are they not sheep— and ye bid them rebel ?
What do they know of the Days that have been ?
Were they not suckled as Servile and Mean ?
Gods have they none but the Tyrants of Trade,
Gods who but mock at the things they have made?
Were they not bought for a pitiful dole ?
Body and soul of them —Body and soul!
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
London Lancet is right. “ Suicide while
insane ” is often a stupid verdict, but the formula
began in kindliness. It was meant to shield the
suicide, or rather his friends, from the torments
and terrors the law imposed in such cases. These
have, however, all been wiped off the English
Statute-book. The present Chief Justice Darley
was instrumental in wiping them out of existence
in N.S.W. Hence, there is no reason why the
stupidity should be perpetuated. In cases where
the evidence discloses no insanity the verdict
should, as the Lancet says, be that deceased
caused his own death, but that the condition of
his mind had not been proved to the jury's satis-
faction.
Flinders Islands.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You see them on the sea-way from Sydney to
Launceston, as the stem of the steamer fans out
the wavelets on a blue, shiny sea. Some of them
are bare, creamy rocks, deepening to chrome
where the shades slant; some are ammoniated
rookeries ; and some look like dense, dun clouds on
the horizon, being clad with the hardy eucalypt.
They fit in with your ansemic dreams of rusticity
and Robinson Crusoe idylls, and if you haven’t
already settled that you will get peace by keeping
a poultry-farm, you decide that you will be ship-
wrecked on one of these dream islands and live
happily ever after. Of course that is when the
sun shines, the sea is calm, and the steward has
an easy time.
There are people living on these islands, proba-
bly stragglers from the now extinct Tasmanian
blacks, who got there in their canoes and thus
survived the rest of the stock. But blacks were
there when whalermen found the spot out and
took unto themselves gins. Then ticket-of-leave
men arrived. They also took unto themselves
gins ; and even escaped convicts got across, and
they connubialisad with the gins also ; and by-
and-by a hai£-caste population came into the
world.
The extermination of the blacks was hastened
by gins getting tiresome and being shot off, when
the white men, of course, took unto themselves
fresh gins. It is on record that one settler was
arraigned for shooting his wife, but he was
acquitted on the plea that he thought she was a
kangaroo! They lived on fish and mutton-birds,
and went sealing. But it was a land of laziness
and of lewd ness, and such it is to-day.
At the present time there are 120 odd white
folks living on the islands. They are mostly
laborers who go over for the mutton-birding,
and, finding that an easy life may be led there,
they marry a half-caste gin and settle down.
The guano on some of the rookeries is said to be
the best obtainable. It often brings £3 per ton
in Launcestou. It is so strong that it emits a blue
flame when it is broken, and the ammoniacal odor
is over-powering. The best is obtained on Cat
Island. The birds on the rookeries are shag,
albatross, molly-hawks, garnets, and mutton-
birds, and, in fact, all sorts of sea-birds.
The regularity with which the mutton-birds
arrive is phenomenal. One can make a wager to
the day and give long odds. There will not be a
bird in the Straits after 20th May, and they
arrive by thousands on 16th Septemlier. They
scratch out their holes or burrows, and then leave
the Straits entirely, and come back on 20th
November, when the hen bird lays her egg. She
never lays more than one egg.
After laying, the hen bird will sit a fortnight,
while the cock bird collects the food —mainly
shrimps ; then the cock bird will take her place
aud sit a fortnight, while she provides the food.
You can always tell the bird that is sitting bv the
way the feathers wear off the breast. So they
change about till the young bird is hatched —in
the middle of January. On 20th March the young
bird is fit to be taken, and the mutton-bird
season starts, and lasts till 20th May. Then
the islanders turn out and work hard collect-
ing the birds and preparing them for marker.
A large family has earned as much as £ .20
in those two months. When you consider
the different processes the birds are put through,
you will understand how marvellously rapid a
mutton-birder must be in his movements to get
through about 120 birds a-day. I’ve seen mutton-
birds marked up for sale in Hobart at five for Is.
A peculiarity about the young mutton-bird,
when the season begins, is that it looks bigger
than its parent. It looks as large as a duck,
while the full-grown bird is about the_ size of a
sea-gull. As a matter of fact, the chicken has
down upon it about 3in. thick before it is fledged,
and this gives it the appearance of being bigger.
The. young bird can’t leave the island till the old
bird forsakes it, and thus permits the fat to be re-
duced sufficiently by starvation to enable it to fly.
Little Dog Island and Chapel Island are distant
from each other 16 miles, yet the birds are several
da vs earlier on Dog Island than on Chapel
Island, and they come to maturity quicker.
The young bird is considered good eating, but
folks tell me that it is an acquired taste. It is
rolling in fat, and besides being eaten it is caught
for the oil, which is obtained by hanging the bird
up and squeezing the breast. The fat is also
prized; it is extracted by a press, and is used
in tanneries. The eggs are good eating. The oil
is considered as good as cod-liver oil for lung-
disease, and mutton-birds are recommended in
suc h
The mutton-birder runs great risks in collecting
birds. Snakes are partial to eggs, and where the
mutton-bird settles there are bound to be thousands
of snakes. When the reptiles are disturbed by
the mutton-birders they take shelter in the holes
of the mutton birds, and when the birder
thrusts in his hand he often catches hold of
a snake. Numbers have been bitten, and I
was told of one man who was bitten three times
by the same snake before he was aware of his
hurts. He thought it was the mutton-bird, which
fights viciously to protect its young.
There are black snakes, tiger snakes, diamond
snakes, and many other species, poisonous and
not poisonous. I have been told that a snake
is often pulled out of a hole in mistake for
a young bird, the collector thinking he is pulling
the bird out by the neck. This will be under-
stood when you learn that the snakes are more
often than not stupefied by over-feeding, and also
that the mutton-birder is so deft in his move-
ments. The mutton-bird and the snake get along
very well together, the snake never attacking un-
less the assault is first made on him, and this only
occurs when a young bird is annoyed by the snake
in some way. When they do fight_ they are very
evenly matched, and it is evens which will win.
At present sealing is closed for three years.
The half-castes used to go shooting the seals about
the middle of November, as at that time the cubs
are too weak to leave the rocks, and the seals will
not desert the pups. When the seals gently
sway the head they may be approached with
safety, as they are then asleep. The bullet is fired
behind the ears, for the seals swell themselves up
so that the shot will not take effect in any other
part. The king sits on the top rock, surrounded
by his people. The “ wig ” is the male, the “ clap-
nash ” is the female, and the yearling is called
“ cub.”
The old king usually comes ashore first, and
prospects the rocks, as if to see if they are suitable
for settlement. If he decides on the spot he re-
mains, when a few more old bulls come ashore and
select their ground near the king’s settlement.
Then the other bulls come ashore and take up
places. The young fellows, who are not considered
old enough for matrimony, get apart and make a
camp for themselves. After a day or so, the
females come ashore, when there is a scramble
among the bulls to get as many as they can. A
strong bull will seize as many as 15, and a fight
will often occur between two bulls for one par-
ticular female, and in the struggle they will be as
likely to kill her as not.
I’ve heard that an old clapnash will cry out for
her old mate immediately she comes ashore, and,
when he replies, the other bulls will give her a
safe passage to her old husband. Shortly after
they arrive the cubs are born, and the seals
remain rutting till the cubs are taught to swim.
It is strange that a pup cannot swim till it is
taught, and the female has to force it into the
water.' All the time they are on the rocks they
do not eat or drink, and the seals which come
ashore rolling in fat leave the land mere frames.
Another interesting fact is that the unmarried
fellows walk about the sections ogling the females,
and sometimes they “do a mash,” and the female
elopes. She loses character from that out, and
the married bulls won’t recognise her afterwards.
I owe a little of the above to Flinders
Islanders, but mainly to an old sealer I met
goujg years ago on the South coast. His expe-
rience was gained orth Polewards. I asked
some of the Flinders Island people if it was cor-
rect, and thev said some of it was news to them,
but they should say that it was correct from their
experience of the seal.
Beautiful nautilus shells are washed ashore on
these islands. They are streaky, white shells. The
nautilus is really a sort of sea snail, even to the
horns. In the water it is of a delightful green
color. I suppose few people know how shells
come ashore. In heavy weather the kelp breaks
loose, and in coming ashore it drags the shell-fish
with it.
Tin has been discovered at Tanner’s Bay and
Pat’s River, but not in payable quantities.
Some of the old settlers count 140 wrecks which
have occurred at the islands, the last of which cost
11 lives. The half-castes tell some sensational
stories, if they may be believed.
ROBERT BROTHERS.
There is trouble between the Master
Printers of N.S.W. and the Typo. Union over
the question of “boy labor.” The employers
complain that the skill of apprentices is not up to
the required standard, and urge the establishment
of a State technical class for teaching printers.
Thus they would get rid of the responsibility of
properly teaching the trade, and let the lads, who
work at low wages as the price of being taught,
learn at their own expense at a technical school by
night.
From a cleverly ill-natured book of memoirs
by Henrietta Corkran :
lady Wilde used to sit in a shaded room lit by soft-
hued lamps in broad daylight. Her long, massive, hand-
some face was plastered with white powder ; over her
blue-black, glossy hair was a gilt crow n of laurels. Her
throat was bare so were her arms, but they were covered
with quaint jewellery. On her broad chest were fastened
a series of large miniature brooches, evidently family por-
traits, which came down almost as low as the gastro-
nomical region. This gave her the appearance of a
walking family mausoleum. She wore white kid gloves,
held a scent-bottle, a lace handkerchief, and a fan.
Lady Wilde reminded me of a tragedy queen at a
suburban theatre.
Which at least partially explains Oscar.


A Weak Stomach
Indigestion, No Appetite, Exhaustion, Genera! Weakness,—All Due
to a Sluggish Liver and Impure Blood.
S
%
Mr. G. A. Boxall, of Prahran, Vic-
toria, sends us liis photograph and says:
“I wish to tell every one the great
help I received from Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. I suffei’ed terribly from weak-
ness of the stomach, indigestion, and
biliousness, and I had no appetite. I
felt tired all the time. Sometimes it
seemed almost impossible for me to
keep about. But after using Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a short time for my
blood and as a general tonic to my
nervous system, and with an occasional
use of the Pills to keep my bowels in
good condition, I rapidly improved, and
am now enjoying better health than I
have m a long time. I now keep these
medicines near at hand and take just a
little whenever I begin to feel badly,
for, you know, ‘ a stitch in time saves
nine.’ ”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Of course you cannot enjoy good health if your stomach gives out. You
must have an appetite, must digest your food, and must keep your liver
active. Muscular strength, nervous strength, desire to be active, and a feeling
of general good health may be yours by keeping your liver active and your
blood pure. It takes just two medicines for this: Ayer’s Pills for the liver,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for the blood.
It’s Ayer’s Sarsaparilla you want. Insist upon getting “Ayer’s,” for it’s
Stronger, contains more ingredients, and cures quicker than any other kind.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Strengthens the Stomach and Aids Digestion
Ayer’s Pills keep the liver in a healthy condition.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEB. & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
The Bulletin's Popular Publications.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
Bf Sixty Bulletin Writers. Fifth Thousand. Cloth, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
THE BULLETIN RECITER
By Eighty Bulletin Writers. Sixth Thousand. Cloth, Illustrated, ss. ; postage, 4d.
ON OUR SELECTION
By A. H. Davis (“ Steele Rudd ”). Twelfth Thousand. Cloth, Illustrated, 65.; postage, Bd.
CASTRO’S LAST SACRA/TENT
And Other Stories, by Albert Dorrington. Second Thousand. Cloth, 4s. 6d.; postage, 7d.
Obtainable from all Booksellers, or from the Publishers—
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd., 214 George-St, Sydney, Australia-
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTM ENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
“IT’S A MARVEL!”
EVERY WOMAN
M
i
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO.
OF AUSTRALIA.
Camden Building, 418 George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
IRISH,
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
UaHhtrjssai....
SBM
MOSS
CURES WKfcLE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
yield quickly to its action.
Beech a in’s Pills do not promise more than
they can perform, and they perform all they
promise. Beecham’s Pills are the safest and
most perfectly reliable medicine ever offered
to the Public for Biliousness and Sluggish
or Disordered Liver.
They have no equal in cases of Indigestion and Loss of Appetite.
They are simply splendid as a Tonic and Restorative of the Nervous
System.
They are excellent in removing the causes of Sleeplessness.
They are remarkable in their purifying action on the Blood.
Their use brings the body to a high
condition of health and fitness and
fortifies it against disease. No other
preparation in the world has so many
valuable qualities, and as a general
or family medicine there is nothing
equal to
VI’S PILLS
DOES SHE WRITE TO YOU LIKE THIS ?
Roberts’ Hotel, Sydney, Jan. 22, ’O3.
Dearest Jack,
Such good news, Dad has found “It” at last ! I mean, of course, a really
comfortable plaoe to stay at. It’s such a relief to me because he’s so trying to everyone
when he can’t get exactly what he wants, but he’s been a regular old darling since we came
here ! I think it’s because he gets plenty of nice things to eat. Just fancy, you ean have a
lovely lunch for a shilling, and on Friday there’s a special fish menu besides the ordinary, with
silver grills always on. Dad had them all. Pity help his friends if he ever gets the gout! But
the cooking here is so good that I don’t think the quantity he eats can hurt him. You pay
for everything as you get it. I think it’s a splendid arrangement, because Dad’s always in a
good humour after the meals he has here, and when he fetches out his purse I can generally
manage to get a little pocket money for myself. Now, good-bye, my darling old boy,
Yours forever,
P.S. —These are kisses XXXXXXXXX BRENDA BRAGGS.
P.P.S.—Got such a fright—thought Dad was looking over my shoulder.
P.P.P.S. —This is the address—l’ve.cut it out of “ The Bulletin ”
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE AND
MARKET STS.,
SYDNEY
BEDROOM (single) 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double) 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs.
per day, or £2 2s. per week.
Dr.kb.Smith,
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.
L.P.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
May be CONSULTED
PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER AT
ELMLEY HOUSE,
151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY*
Dr. MARTIN, during: his recent European Tour, visited the Leading Hospitals of GREAT BRITAIN
and EUROPE, and has now aT his CONSULTING ROOMS all the latest improvements in ELECTRIC
APPLIANCES, and all the most recent scientific methods of treatment for aH NERVOtfe, LUNG,
HEART, SKIN, and all CHRONIC DISEASES of Men and Women, inelnding the BROjWN-
SEQUARD, KRAFTT-EBING, and KNQX-MERCER TREATriENT for all AcfoTE INFLAMMA-
TORY and CHRONIC CO/TPLAINTS, in the treatment of which he has been so successful during bfs
Australian practice, thus ensuring all Patients entrusting themselves to his care an accurate
diagnosis, together with prompt and effectual treatment.
COUNTRY PATIENTS treated by Correspondence (Pee, by letter, £1). Medicines forwarded to all
parts of Australasia. All communications confidential. Dr. MARTIN has treated over 20,000 cases during
the last J. 5 years—a success unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia.
Moderate Charges* Effectual Treatment* Absolute and Rapid Cures*
CONS CR T A 2'ION MOUKS—IO to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.


CELLULOID
COLLAR
GOODNESS
We sell the good kind of Celluloid
Collars. Our Celluloid Collars
have a nice, white, clean appear-
ance, and stay white. They clean
well, and last longer than other
kinds. They save lots of money, be-
cause you can wash them yourself.
In all the latest styles and
shapes, at Lowest Prices
for Highest Qualities.
PERDRIAU & CO.
Rubber Merchants,
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
>siapoi/u
,£2.10t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia ,
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices,
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2jd. Stamp. Address Dept 346 D
Mead Cycle Co.
Chicago.
U.S.A.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ o. IBIjIDIE&IIDa-IE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders try post from, all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
trade mark-
32 & 34 Clarenoe Street,
SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Ooitaloffo-®*
BENNIE, TEAKE & CO., Representatives.
A
<4
y>,
Stocks at Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Have for Sale a,ncl to arrive
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 435 Bourke St.
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors, Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers’
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shafting, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil Brunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY UNITED
Consulting Engineers on all matters relating to mining, hydraulic, and general engineering
propositions. Manufacturers and importers of mining machinery, and steam engines and boilers
of all kinds. Mines furnished with complete plants—Milling, Concentrating, Cyaniding,
Chlorinating, &c. Pumping outfits designed and supplied with all plans necessary for erection,
capacity guaranteed. All classes of pumps kept in stock and ready for immediate delivery;
together with boilers, pipes, and other items of equipment. Correspondence invited from
pastoralists and others requiring plant for irrigating purposes. Brickworks designed and brick-
making machinery of the most modern and approved pattern supplied to order. Quotations
given for complete installation of any kind of plant whatsoever. Iron and woodworking tools
and all kinds of engineers’ fittings and supplies kept in stock. Agents for Ingersoll rock drills
and air compressors, Knowles pumps, Gates rockbreakers, etc., etc., etc.
60 Clarence St.,
Sydney
ADDRESSEIS :
533 Collins St-,
Melbourne
21 & 23 Fremont St,
San Francisco
■lsPgfa
Sufferer* from Deafness or Hek~ 3>isee
desiring a complete and perm&atut cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
*5O HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
S ■:
Size, SJ" x SJ" x s*.
We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE—
Sreow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes end all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO.,
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
I
The Unirersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’B
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most ,
Gentle Medicine fer ‘
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
u
The‘Raplin’ Hand Ice Machine
Ice produced by simply turning handle. A decanter
of water made ice cold in 3 minutes. No risk, no trouble.
Invaluable in the country, where ice cannot be bought.
The ‘Abbott’ Filter
m, iiinßMßaisaßHaamMßßßawM
Stops all disease germs. Makes the foulest water pure
and wholesome. Easily cleaned. From 22s 6d.
Full Particulars on application to
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole Agents. 71 Clarence Street, Sydney*
CURIOUS
BOOKS
ETC.
The Largest Catalogue of
ENGLISH and
FRENCH BOOKS,
with all novelties, Is.
Apply—
-116 Box Paris.
Trewhella Bros.’
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Prics
Double Purchase Jack 4 65-
II » n 675 /-
Single „ „ 2i 40 -
With AUTOMATIC LOWERING CEAR, 5/- extra.
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victoria,
OR H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
