

McEWAN’S ale.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
AbsoiuteSy
Pure,
therefor©
Best.
9
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet
107
Mining and Contractors’ Plant,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS
Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Engineers’ and -
GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW Aim SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
, W -
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
a.
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
Most
Up-to-Date
Machines.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the l'amous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of is. Gd.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XX NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X 710 George-st., Sydney.
IRGH
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
.HOLD THE WORLD'S RECORD
“Grand Prix,” Paris, 1000.
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
BOLE AGENTS
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., ss pm street, SYDNEY.
'
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years Unbroken Record as a Stanc'a-d Australian Explosive. Cor CLARENCE & KINC STS., SYDNEY
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
I
Radley’s Orient Ijotel.
BY POST, A MEDICAL
TREATISE by that justly-
celebrated. FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St
SYDNEY—
oyaI, April, 1903,
CHAMPION CUP
and
IX FIRST PRIZES.
2-jij
•.v
MELBOURNE—
August, 1902, Gran
Championship of
Australasia.
ADELAIDE—Champii
Cup & 8-First Prizes.
PERFECT
TP WATER!
ASSISTS
Idicestioni
SHOULD
| BE]
fill Q ED
PIONEER
LEATHER
g E LTINcIiM
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
USE - mm
SPOONER’S
3 1
SPOONERS
v
4
•.***£***■.%
BOOta
LEATHER
WeNY
A? OS
SUIW
mk
*k%*w***
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and 13.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for '
HARNESS REATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBftOCATIOM,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Mining antToredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &o.
Fowler Traction Engines.
EERJ
Desicoating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &o.
PROOF
P N
E
USE
X?*
Head Office:
10 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGtGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and everv description of vehicles in Stock and made
to OrdeA HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address and we w|H forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we'can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
->ent. more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUR SPECIAL Wo. *
£8 18/6
at any Ifharf ©r -
?r.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
lenl Why Remain Bald ?
D2NTWAU
F2RTHIS
I am never tired of asking
you this question because I
know you needn’t remain bald
any longer. ......
CAPILLA
Hair
Tonic!
is the remedy, and it’s a
remedy that will produce a
new g:. iwth of hair 'so long
as there is the slightest down
on the head.
AH Chemists - - 2s. 6d. per bottle.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Sole Proprietor, and
Inventor, City Bank Chambers, 164 Pitt-street,
Svdney, N.S.W.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1215.1
[Saturday, May 30, 1903.
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post aa a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S MAIL
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Carnetrie, The Empire of Business, 3s, postage 6d.
Kerr, Memories B rave and Gay, 3s 6d, p. 4d.
Zangwill. Blind Children, ss, p. 6d.
Grier (SvdneyV Advance Guard, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Russell (\V. Clark), Overdu.e, 3s 6d, p. (id.
Forest, Sword of Azrael, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Somerville*: Boss, All on an Irish Shore, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hanotaux, Contemporary France, Vo!. I,lBs, postage Is Sd
The Lover’s Dictionary, 2s 6d, p. 4d. 8
Becke (Louis), Helen Adair, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Hinkson, Silk and Steel, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Nesbit, The Red House, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Freeman, Six Trees, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Scott, Twillford Mystery, Is, p. 3d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
For
COUGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of th#
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
s.o\*
lIM TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q-
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 ass 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia*
THE RED PAGE.
Medically Speaking .
PH ROPERLY seen, the medical profession is
a huge joke—with a laced edging of tragedy, to
be sure. There are doctors and doctors, doctors
who have “arrived” and doctors who are won-
dering whether on earth they will "arrive,” old doctors and
young doctors, dignified doctors and udvertising-as-much-
as-thev-dare doctors : and they are all so absorbed in
questions of precedence and decorum that they rarely see
the fun of themselves —although good fellows.
In the crowded medical profession goodfellowship
counts, but it does n’t count up to millions. Very soon
the doctor learns that business life is a callous affair, and
the knowledge never deserts him. The charities of
doctors are boundless ; hut when a man has cash-blood—
well, it is their business to bleed him. You can
Bee it in a doctor s eye—sometimes—just after
the door opens—as if he had been reciting his
litany between clients—the expression of “ How
much am I going to get out of you?” Then
professional bonhomie fills his glance with warmth and
his voice with soft “ And-how-are-we-to-day ?” inflec-
tions. Be not deceived : Truth is not mocked : that
doctor is your friendly enemy : you are in that room
along with the library and the apparatus and the medical
smell in order to put bread into his mouth, and he never
loses sight of that vital point. He can’t afford to.
Young doctors have been known to forget fees; old
doctors to despise them; but the “profession,” as a
body, is just as much of a shark as it can be, as in self-
defence it must be.
Usually, the shark veils rapacity under a cheerful air
of nonchalance. Yet one flash of teeth may suggest a
graveyard. Like caricaturists, doctors view you with an
arri&re pens6e. When you turn quickly to find a well-
known illustrator with a thoughtful, introspective expres-
sion, you may be pretty sure that he has mentally
“ blocked out ” your head and settled the comical twist
your nose will take in profile. That introspective air
belongs to doctors naturally. Never mind the cordial
greeting at the dinner-table. on the telepath and
you will hear the conversational under-current of him to
himself: “ Bit pouchy under the eyes—might he kidneys—
or liver perhaps—he’ll be in presently.” Or, “He looks
all rioht : hut I haven’t heard much of his wife lately—
wonder if ”
Ghouls.
As between doctor and patient, the joke is
always against the patient. But as between doctor and
doctor, prospective patients may laugh till the day
before operation comes. Then all your pleasant vices—
heads of Bacchus and Yenus forgotten for many a year,
now with strange Gorgon-twisted mouths and hair that
hangs like scourges—come round your bed and leer at
you. You have n’t been told it’s for to-morrow ; but
you know, and they know. Presently their lips move
in sinister whispers : “ Flabby heart—flabby heart—
flabby heart! ” Or “ Pipes of lime—pipes of lime—pipes
of lime ! ” Then, all together, nodding in unison, “You’ll
never get over it—never get over it—never, never get
over it.” You know it’s all right, of course; you’re
sure it’s all right; a fine fellow such as you are is much
too fine a fellow to—to die ; but—Ugh !Do you know the
feeling?
After life, the Judgment.
Round the candle of Advertisement the medical
moths flutter continually. The local medical union is
obliged to register qualified new-comers. But the estab-
lished men view the university medico-mills with disgust
and alarm. Every year scores of newly-fledged doctors
come up smiling to divide the fat worms of the profession.
They do not smile long. Their elders tolerate them—
barely. Where are they to settle ? The suburbs are filled ;
the country towns are provided for; and what hope is there
in College-street or Collins-street for unknown men ? So
competition is fast cutting down medical salaries to a
living wage. Insurance companies absorb some of the
youngsters ; the hospitals others ; some go to sea ; some
are tempted by the lodges to cut rates ; and some perch
where there are already half-a-dozen open beaks waiting
for a fee.
Alien the great question of Advt. confronts them.
Etiquette permits a modest brass plate and no more—
Winking reluctantly at the country practitioner’s “ card ”
in the local newspaper. The aspiring youth presently
realises that he is facing a blank wall, with practical
starvation for a mate. And inwardly he rages at the
union rule which says, “No Advertisement! ” —a rule
manifestly designed to preserve the seniors’ monopoly
and prevent him from catching the patient’s eye. Yet if
he infringes the rule he will be haled before the trade
council and threatened with ostracism.
'lt does not improve his temper to find that some of
the grave councillors themselves will bait their hooks
with sly advertisement. This one takes advantage of a
newspaper discussion to write a letter to the press, with
his address appended. That one is philanthropic at
public meetings, while his colleagues sneer “ Cui Bono ? ”
Another joins a bowling club, or a chess club, or a
reform association, or a church. The medical maxim is
•'Get known ! and all good things will be added to you.”
But you must get known “ legitimately.”
There was very nearly trouble over Brass Plates a
little time ago. Some desperate wretches began to make
their brass plates bigger and bigger. Instead of the
regulation pocket-handkerchief, they erected plates
which fell little short of counterpanes. Their red lamps
grew larger, and Che glass was polished so that the whole
■treet flashed crimson. If you passed by day the radiance
of brass was like to blind you. At night people in a
distant suburb rang up the fire-brigade. “It was not
etiquette,” said the dignified elders; “and besides, it
attracts our customers—customers that we have gained
by sitting in the same spot for a dozen years ” —was the
thought unspoken. So there was solemn remonstrance ;
and the rash juniors had to submit. But why did not
the reverend Council pass a resolution limiting brass
plates to 4" x 3", and lights to one-candle power, to point
tlie joke?
There is always something in the eye of the
illegitimate practitioner which tells you that he is not
the clean professional potato. The medical trade-union
is mighty, and its anathema is a solid brick that would
fell a politician even. Little by little social and profes-
sional outlawry breaks a man up. Not one in ten thou-
sand can play Ishmael smiling. In the shameless
advertiser’s manner you can see the apprehensive
capegoat. He has been cast out. I would urge our
young men to revolt, if revolt were hopeful. But the
trade-union tarries too many guns, loaded with too many
kinds of missiles. There seems to he nothing to do but
growl and struggle, in anticipation of the time when
to-day’s juniors will be sheltered seniors, with (ala* !) one
eye cocked askance at the pushing youngsters of 1921.
It is not suggested that Dr. Muskett is an advertiser,
whatever his fraternity may suggest. From our point of
view he is a writer of books, and the books come for
review in the ordinary way. Indeed, if medical etiquette
were used as a stick to prevent doctors from writing
books of public interest or no public interest, then medical
etiquette would become too absurd a thing altogether.
Yet one surveys The Illustrated Australian Medical
Guide with mixed feelings. There are two handsome
volumes published by Wm. Brooks & Co.—price 3gs. ;
and the purchaser gets a bonus in the shape of a sealed
envelope containing a
“ Profusely Pictured
Private and Separate
Section for Women.’*
The iTeal is red ; but iq. deference to backblocks taste
it should surely be sufierultramarine. This sealed en-
velope is a great idea, and the canvasser who makes play
with it discreetly will not fail of orders. We shall not
tell what’s inside, in order that the Revelation of Saint
John tlie Divine may be fulfilled in the Never-Never
reg ions : And 1 saw when the ram opened the seal, and I
heard, as it were, the noise of thunder, one of the four
beasts saving. Come and see. Prophetic stock is low
at present, and the reputation of the Apocalypse must be
maintained.
When you open the Medical Guide, you see in ail the
pride of chromo-lithography a picture of a lovely human
inside, with poetical yellow intestines, lungs touched
into light- blue beauty, and a sentimental streaked liver
like the flower of a strangle orchid. Then you meet Dr.
Muskett’s medical titles, in four lines. Then his dedica-
tion of the book to his fellow-countrymen “as an
example of effort.” Then the “ List of medical works by
Dr. Philip E. Muskett.” “Total—7volumes, 14 editions.”
Then the preface—“lf any proof were needed of Aus-
tralian development and progress, it is certainly to be
found in the present work, ” which “ will mark a distinct
epoch in the history of Australian publishing.” The
author “ has hecome the pioneer of popular medical
literature in this part of the world "—the author says so.
Then you turn to the index and look for “ Modesty.”
“ Miscarriage ” “Moist Tetter”—Mouth Washes” . . .
no ; “ Modest.v ” isn’t there.
Dr. Muskett, pioneer or not, has certainly done useful
service. How to manage infants, how to improve diet —
he has told us these things - sensibly and agreeably.
Some of the seven volumes count for nothing. Dr.
Muskett had one main message the glorification
of vegetables and the denunciation of excessive meat-
eating ; he exhausted his message, and then he repeated
his message. Still, it was a good message for anybody
who could get the vegetables, and there was no need to
grumble until Dr. Muskett began to say’ the same thing
three times in the same way in the same book. Then,
with all gratitude, one could not help complaining.
The Medical Guide is another story altogether.
Here we have common ailments and accidents ranged
alphabetically, their causes discussed, their treatment
indicated, and many' valuable remedies supplied. The
author does not stress the etiquette of chemist or
surgeon ; he has the bush layman in his eye. In abortion,
he recommends chlorodyne, and is content to say that
the services of a doctor are only “ usually'” required.
Everywhere he'tries to be plain and practical.
For a pick-me-up, following a debauch, there is
nothing equal to 5 drops of tincture of capsicum, 5
drops of tincture of nux vomica, and about 20 drops of
compound tincture of bark—with or without one
tablespoonful of compound infusion of gentian—in a
little water, every 2,3, or 4 hours. The number of
capsicum drops may be lessened, if so desired. This
mixture steadies the nerves, and pulls the patient
together. It likewise relieves the horrible sinking feel-
ing in the stomach, although this will he effectually
alleviated by a poultice of half flour and half mustard
applied—and kept on for half an hour or 20 minutes—
just above the navel. In addition to the foregoing,
beef tea of douhle strength, with a suspicion of cayenne
pepper in it, should also be taken freely.
That, now, is good, useful Australian knowledge.
Suppose you wish to remember that the anterior por-
tion of the brain directs the movements of the body,
while the posterior portion has to do with sensation or
feeling, you think of “ the initial letters of our Austra-
lian Mutual Provident Society, namely A.M.P.S.—that is
Anterior, Movements ; Posterior, Sensation.” Somehow
we are reminded of the educational method of Dr.
Squeers—but where is the connection ?
“An injury will never originate a cancer, unless the
tendency to the disease already exists. Even in the case
of tongue or lower-lip cancer in men—the so-called
‘ smoker’s cancer’—it is known to occur in just the same
relative proportion in non-smokers.” That is worth
remembering.
Dr. Muskett’s net catches Hanging just as it catches
Hiccups. There is a certain want of humour in the
article on Hanging: in fact, we have not met any
humour in 9 volumes and 15 editions. “As far as judi-
cial hanging is concerned, it is entirely a matter for the
law authorities.” As to the other kind, “in the ‘ cutting-
down of a person, his body must be properly supported
either by the rescuer or by some one else, ‘if this be not
thought of the rope is frequently cut, and down comes
the would-be suicide with a run...” Bear that in mind.
Dr. Muskett discovered rickets in Australia (ii, 182)!
“ The opportunity may also be here taken of mentioning
the fact that the word rickety, signifying affected with
the rickets, as ordinarily employed, is” almost invariably
misspelt ‘ ricketty.”’ But, in discovering ricketk, Dr.
Muskett has not exhausted the field of enquiry.
“ As time goes on more discoveries of this kind will be
made. For I am positive that there are a number of
diseases existing amongst us— which are only waiting to
be properly identified.’’ Cheerful. Was that a medical
sniff ? Doubtless some jealous ignorant who could not
discover rickets.
“ The smell of iodoform is so suggestive, that an astute
Australian, who w’as forced to make use of it, hit upon
the following ingenious expedient He wore some
ostensibly on his finger, neatly covered by a proper
bandage. The odour of iodoform about him', proceeded
from his finger—at least, every one thought so.’’
Dr. Muskett exudes etymology. Derivations
pronunciations—his book is too-full of them. Some ex-
amples—
Bites and Stings of Insects [Bite, bit, Anglo Saxon, bite
a bite—from bitan to bite. Sting, sting, Anglo Saxon,
sting, a sting—from stingan, to pierce, to sting. ..]
Corns, kaions [Latin, cornu, a horn.]
Skin, skin [of Scandinavian origin. Icelandic and Swedish
shinn, the skin.] ’
Small-pox, smorl poks . . .
The word malaria (may-laFee-ur) is of Italian origin . ..
Those will serve as specimens of erudition. We will not
venture upon a definition of musket : it suggests itself.
But what is to be thought of the gentleman who marks
his “epoch in Australian publishing” by pronouncing
corns kaivnsf It does not compensate us to get the
lost r back in smorl poks. Yet we have not quoted Dr
Muskett’s gem—
Water-brash, waritur-brash... Illtti! !! !1!
And this in a medical text-book to be scattered over
Australia as authoritative!
We do not wish to give a wrong idea of Dr.
Muskett’s work in citing faults. Yet the book, on the whole,
is not well made. Flabbiness, sloppiness, characterise
Dr. Muskett’s accounts of many diseases—malaria and
indigestion, for example ; though the preface lays stress
upon the attention paid to such ailments. the vital
thing a New Guinea miner wants to know is about the
malaria-breeding mosquito. The fact of no mosquito-
bite, no malaria, should be driven home hard ; a malaria
article should be, so to speak, covered with a mos-
quito-net. Dr. Muskett refers to the mosquito timidly
and rather doubtfully. In the matter of indigestion,
again, his treatment is feeble. He says some of the right
things, but he never says them as if he meant them.
The articles on “ Sleep” and “ Tuberculosis” are charac-
teristically wordy and inept: Dr. Muskett’s mind glides
over the subjects, but never pierces them, never really
grapples with them. On the other hand, the article on
. Sleeplessness” is comparatively good; “Neurasthenia”
is fair ; and the instructions how to deal with accidents
■uch as poisoning and drowning are generally admirable.
Sometimes Dr. Muskett seems tethered by reasons of
space. He has to deal with so many subiects that
he cannot say very much about any one'of them.
People who want definite and full information about a
chrome ailment or a permanent constitutional ten-
dency must seek other hand-books. The Medical
Guide unquestionably contains a large amount of useful
information, and as a kind of health directorv manv
isolated families will find it valuable. The informa-
tion is sound as far as it goes, and it is information that
will be very nearly as useful twenty years hence as it is
to-day. The numerous illustrations are certainly helpful •
and the prescriptions and recipes, rightly understood, are
worth a large sum in medical fees.
. one hopes they will be rightly understood ; but there
is considerable doubt. Anyway, Dr. Muskett might
nave stressed diet more, and drugs less. Drugs have
their uses ; but their liability to misuse, in unskilled
hands, is very great- so great that, considering the
general ignorance regarding them, we are not at all sure
that Dr. Muskett’s book in its present shape will not
do more harm than good. We are quite sure that if
he had cut out one whole volume of surplusage, written
up to his points instead of round them, restricted his
work to accidents and simple family medicine, and
referred the whole class of nervous patients to skilled
medical treatment, we should have liked his epoch-
making three-years-effort a great deal better.
LOOKS IN TRADE
Fitz Gerald’s “ Omar Khayyam ” (first- edition,
lacking several stanzas, but practically all there) is on
sale now at sixpence nett in the “ Roses of Parnassus”
series. “ Nett” means that the book is sold by the pub-
lishers to the booksellers at sixpence, or is supposed to
be sold. In practice, wholesale firms still squeeze a dis-
count ; but the discount is not nearly so large as that
given upon the not-nett book. So, when the Australian
purchaser comes to the retail shop, instead of getting the
book at “ published price,” he is asked 2 d. or 3d. more in
the shilling, according to the retailer s anxiety to do
business. ‘‘Omar” will cost you Bcf. or 9d ;or lOd.
posted from Our Advertiser.
Most books are published on the discount system, when
the publisher gives the big bookseller from 35 to 45 per
cent, discount on the retail price, and the big bookseller
gives the little bookseller 20 to 30 per cent. So there is
money in bookselling—if you can sell the books. An
English book published at 65., say, is sold to the dis-
tributing houses at from 3s. 3d. to about 3s. 9 d. —
the lower price when the bookseller can get it, and
the higher when he can’t. There are all sorts of
inside arrangements made by bookselling Rocke-
fellers ; but as a rule the wholesale house handles on a
minimum of 10 per cent, profit, while the retailer wants
20 per cent. This little load is carried by the purchaser.
You may work an average edition sum this way—
s. d.
Production-cost per copy .. .. ..19
Author receives .. 8
Publisher receives 12
Wholesale bookseller receives .. ... 11
Retail bookseller receives .. .. ..16
Purchaser pays 6 0
Do you wonder that authors growl ? Yet the bookseller
takes risk and gives service : he is a kind of necessary
evil.
When Australian booksellers are direct importers, they
take the whole 2s. sd. on a 6s. book, less cost of freight,
which may work out at about 2<i. per copy. In London
you buy a 6s. book for 4s. 6 d. If the London bookseller
can afford to give the purchaser Is. 6 d. off price, the Aus-
tralian bookseller, on the same principle, can afford to
give Is. id. Plainly, as compared with the Eng. discount
bookseller, the Australian man is in clover—real four-
leaved shamrocks. His risks are greater, but they are
nothing like 23 per cent, greater. The Federal Govt,
might collect 10 per cent, out of that to the profit of the
Australian author, publisher, printer, and bookbinder,
and without raising- the price of books. But a stringent
copyright law, as in America, is what is wanted—to bring
the foreign book for publication here.
MAG AZINE RIFLES
When the English magazine-publisher shoots,
the Australian purchaser conies down with 9<2. or Is. 3d.
for a sixpenny or shilling- magazine—two-thirds ad-
vertisements. The magazine costs a London purchaser
4£d. or 9d., by the operation of the rule of discount.
The Australian vendor purchases at 4d. or Bd., or less,
pays, perhaps, £d. freight; and collects 4id. or 6id. to
cover his risk (which is notgreat)and his«xpenses(which
are considerable). Those magazines ought to be sotd in
Australia for 7 d. and lid., to put it mildly.
There is room for the Federal Govt, to come in here,
too, with a tax of 3d. per lb. as now charged on advertis-
ing sheet-music, without increasing the cost to the pur-
chaser. It is nonsense to talk of a “ tax on knowledge ”
in connection with the average Eng. magazine, which
from many points of view is an enemy to knowledge.
There is a clear case for protecting the local writer and
the trades to which he gives employment. One
might argue that if the tribe of “ scraps ”
publications were taxed out altogether Australia
would be no worse off. But a prohibitive tax
would merely mean that the publishers would have to
bring plant here, and issue Australian editions. In
course of time, these Australian editions would take
an Australian colouring, to the benefit of readers and
writers. Thus both local industry and the local
intelligence would profit in a hundred ways.
The Customs Minister is invited to take a magazine
like Pearson’s or The Strand., and weigh the advertising
sheets in comparison witn the reading matter. Then he
can weigh the quality of the reading matter, and decide
if that grain of wheat is worth all that chaff. We think
he will find that the plea of “literature" will not carry
the enormous load of advt.
Scribner’s Magazine used to publish an Australian
edition and employ local labour to a small extent. The
Review of Reviews publishes an Australian edition now.
Tax the others up to the same sticking-point: the better
will survive ; the worse are not wanted. Make The
Strand come to Sydney or Melbourne and print an Aus-
tralian edition, as it prints an American edition in
New York. Replace foreign “scraps" with Australian
“scraps”: they are poor, ill-favoured things; but at
least they can be our own.
All the Hansard compositors out of work, all the
printing trades unions, all the labour members, all in-
telligent Australians, should push this matter. At
present the foreigner gains and Australia loses. Time the
thing was turned round. We are as jealous for the
interest of readers, the exaltation of literature, as anyone
can be ; and we say that in taxing foreign magazines
into the country Australia will profit both in the way of
industry and in the way of literature.
“ A woman’s hair. ” E. W.D. writes: Re Long-
fellow’s theft from Howell (noted 2/5/3), it may interest
to jot down some intermediate variants. As Luther
(1483-1546) hath it: “The hair is the finest ornament
women have. Of old, virgins used to wear itloose except
when they were in mourning.” An ancient proverbial
saying runs : “ Beauty draws more than oxen,” so that
James Howell in his Epistolce Ho-Elianat, Bk. ii, Letter
4 (1621), had that to go on -when he penned this : “ ’Tis a
powerful sex : they were too strong for the first, the
strongest, and the wisest man that was ; they must needs
be strong when one hair of a woman can draw more than
a hundred pair of oxen.” Burton, in his Anatomy of
Melancholy p. 3, sect, ii (1624) has : “ No cord nor cable
can so forcibly draw, or hold so fast as love can with a
twined thread.” Then comes Carew in his “ Think not
’cause men flattering say ” (1640), wherein is :
Those curious locks so aptly twined,
Whose every hair a soul doth hind.
Dryden in his Satire v, from Persius—pub. 1693—writes :
She knows her man, and when you rant and swear
Can draw you to her with a single hair.
We next find Pope, in his Rape of the Lock (1711-1714),
appropriating the phrase, in Canto ii, line 28—leading up
to it thus :
Love in these labyrinths his slaves detains,
And mighty hearts are held in slender chains ;
With hairy springes we the birds betray,
Slight lines of hair surprise the finny prey ;
Fair tresses man’s imperial race ensnare,
And beauty draws us with a single hair.
In Bland’s Anthology, p. 20, ed. 1813, is an anonymous
couplet:
And from that luckless hour my tyrant fair
Has led and turned me by a single hair.
It was in 1863 that Longfellow brought out his Tales of a
Wayside Inn, where in “ The Musician’s Tale ” occurs
“ The Saga of King Olaf,” and in Canto xvi, “ Queen
Thyri and the Angelica Stalks,” stanza 23, are the lines
you printed.
AUSTRALIAN BOOK-PLATES.-1.
OH! how do you catch a voter?
And how do you catch a voter?
Just tickle his ribs
And feed him on fibs,
And then you will catch a voter!
BOOK-FELLOW’S MIXTURE
From 2V. Y. Sun—” inspired by their nic-
tures ’ —
I want to be an author—
My hand up to my face,
A thought upon my forehead—
An air of studied grace I
I want to be an author,
With genius on my brow;
I want to be an author,
And I want to be It now I
“ Mr. Stephen Phillips’s poetic drama Bathsheba
is to be staged by Mr. Willard at the St. James's Xheat™
presently. Will it contain the washing scene?”r-usi™
?■ W - /oote)- . “Something of that sort would fetch
the modest Christians of London by the myriad Even
the preachers would crowd in to see—well, what David
saw'.”
A rare idea. “Go where you may, except in
Australia,” says Jos. Symes, “ you find the face of the
earth covered with ruined buildings, or you find the
remains of ancient cities covered up with the accumulated
dust of many centuries. ” No civilisation has been buried
here. Has one been born ?
The new Irish policy is stimulating Eng. Tory
bards to unusual activity—thus, for example : 1
Oh, Paddy dear, and did ye hear
The news that's going round t
Twelve million pounds they mean to spend
In buying Irish ground !
Ovid Erin is like Paradise
Before the snake came in,
For every man and woman there
Is wearin’ o’ the grin.
In the first week of April, Will Ogilvie’s verse
or prose was printed in The Spectator, Macmillan's,
Baily’s Maga., The Queen, Empire Review, Chambers!s,
and The Scotsman ; and he wrote that further pieces of
verse w'ere accepted and waiting publication by eight
more magazines, including Temple Bar, The Idler, and
Pearson’s. This is a very creditable record for a minor
verse-contributor, considering the competition ; and it
settles the small hash of the borborygmous Jlelb,
caviller who some time ago wanted to know why Qgilvie
w'as n’t appreciated in England. Ogilvie’s book, Seam
of Gold, and Other Verses, is being prepared for publica-
tion this year.
Some of Felix Carmen’s novel rhymes in Life—
But the end is here, and Easter
Finds you smiling once again.
With a hat to make the priest stir
When he thinks of other men...
This is neater—
-1 know of no vendetta, for
How could a poet hate
His music, muse, and metaphor,
His fancy and his fate?
Some dozen or more Sydney painters have
formed themselves into a society prohably to be known
as the Artists’ Teaching Association. The idea is that the
best-qualified teachers should defend their credit against
the assaults of aspiring ladies who inculcate the whole mys-
tery of Velasquez in twelve lessons fora guinea. Generally
speaking, the new society'is expected to take a more dis-
tinctly cash-professional attitude than the Art Society,
which occasionally permits a gratis enthusiasm to
crawl upon the carpet. The “ teachers ” voted upon one
another’s qualifications (I) in ordertosecure the first setoi
members ; but officers have not been elected at time oi
writing. “The new society” (a phrase with a sinister
ring, somehow) is, of course, composed of members o
the Art Society, and wijf work in harmony with it as ta
as —possible.
Some of the horde of Burns fanatics, to increase
the glory of their idol, persist in saying that he «ro
Lad_v Xairne’s verses “The Land o’ the Leal. Owing
Ladv Nairne’s habit of anonymous publication,
Burnsites of the first half of last century '
ened to garble the words of her song to fit tne _
of the idol on his death-bed ; and there was g .
to-do when the romantic legend was exploded,
less intelligent disciples continue to defy eii
and hug the soothing lie ; and W. M. Stenhoui ,
Maoriland, has taken the trouble to issue a pai P
(Mills, Dick and Co., Dunedin), in which he introduces
articles by A. Crichton, of Scotland, in defence>
Bumsite superstition. Crichton is a crude ign -
whom Stenhouse credits with “ a rare discriminat
critical acumen ” that are the very things he
exhibit. _ . ,
Despairing at length of finding his long-M
Ideal in Australia, Victor Daisy is off per s.s. Or
seek her iu the Solomon Islands. Here s luck .
I know not if you ring your nose.
Or blubber lips your sweet lips kiss,
I go to Jiiul the mystic Rose,
My love! my life ! my Rrunelyt.
A.G.B.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
s YDNE Y.
FUR SKINS!
Kangaroo, Wallaby, Rabbit, Opossum.
SEKTD TO
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.,un.
SYDNEY,
the most successful salesmen.
The 00-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Commission. 3 Per Cent, to tile Grower
on Large and Small Accounts Alike.
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT i
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYFLASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. •
!\J EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT,
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
v and Produce , M -
Qoods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE. __
WONDERFUL VALUE in CIGARS
;
El Rival.
PA£o
vb
La Rarola.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GOODS EXCHANGED or MONEY RETURNED
GUARANTEE.— EVERY CIGAR SOUND
AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
opunw 13
SuTflLAailifl (
• 'M-Mf-'ji
SOIIHDCHXOb
oom
*
*»I|UB W l ON
VHNVN/6N
hub*
p*»
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
HOMA QUEENS
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke
MIGH LIFE MENDOZAS ..
n'IMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“ LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
‘ ‘ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. de Mendoza)
PERLA”BOUQUET
■ HX MUNDO” (Rothschilds)
‘MENDOZA” (Rothschilds)
■ PERLA" (Rothschilds) ..
• MINERVA ” No. 1 MANILA
WINDSOR LADY” (Manila Regalia)
■ PERLA MINERVA,” Manila, Fine
‘•’LOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina)
Per 100.
CIGARS Delivered FREE OF
DUTIES and CHARGES.
Send for our List of
CBB
Briar
Pipes
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney,
Tobacconists and Storekeepers
may obtain Wholesale Lists
on application.
Tobacconist
and Importer,
m
f,l i fki II! n)
Y 4
'h
s*:
£lOOO Reward if you cannot Feel and
Regulate the Current from our Belt.
IP you do, you want it from its NATURAL SOURCE. The most eminent scientists of the day have declared
ELECTRICITY to be the instrumentality of all life, and Prof. Loeb, of Chicago University, has declared that
man needs, not medicine, but Electricity, to correct the functional working of the organs of the body.
Electricity alone is what you want. You have wasted time and money trying to get strength from medicine, and
we say to you if your own doctor, who is generally a friend of yours, can't cure you, then you had best drop all use
of drugs, and look for the natural supply of life-giving energy. We have proven in thousands of cases that a man
must absolutely stop drugging, and use Electricity. It is foolish for you to waste any more money for drugs, after
your physician has told you he can't help you. Thousands of men have come to us, after spending their time and
money on quacks and so-called specialists. We knew what they needed. They were like an engine without steam,
completely run down. We knew that Electricity was the steam they lacked, and we pumped a steady current into
their body for several hours each night, until finally they began to see the beginning of a rapid recovery. A few
more weeks of this grand element, and they were well. Electricity, and Electricity alone, is what you need.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
When advertised by us, cures, to stay cured, LAME BACK, RHEUMATISM, WEAK STOMACH,
DYSPEPSIA, SLEEPLESSNESS, PHYSICAL DECLINE, or ANY BREAKING DOWN OF THE
PHYSICAL OR NERVOUS SYSTEM.
There is nothing so penetrating, nothing so invigorating, nothing that will relieve weakness and pain
as speedily and surely as DR. McLAUGHLINS ELECTRIC BELT. It is simple, but grand. It assists
Nature by a general reinforcement of the vital energy by infusing a mild, invigorating current of Electricity
into the Nerves, and by supplying the System with the very Essence of Nerve Vigour and Nerve Strength.
Sciatica and General Debility.
Mine Creek, Millerton, Westport,
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. ~ nrno . rpg9
Dear Sirs,-I am writing to let you know p „ r °| th e
since wearing your Belt. lam still improving in he . y
pain in my left leg is gone. My left hip, that was so > . «
regaining its normal size, and lam gaining ln " thank vou
always he glad to recommend your Belt, and I want
for restoring me to health.
I am, dear Srrs your tru >
Backache and Constipation.
Knapp’s Creek, via Beaudesert, Q.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co., March 9, 1903.
Dear Sir,—Just a few lines to let you know how I am getting
on lam pleased to state that there is a big improvement in the
backache- it does not trouble me half as much as it did the last
time I wrote, and I feel better in every way. lam very regular
in my habits, and I sleep like a top. I never remember being so
regular. I only hope that it will continue to keep getting better.
I am, yours very truly,
WILLIAM H. CLEAVE.
Desperate with Sciatica.
Angel Terrace, Coolgardie, W.A.
Dear Sirs,—l got your Belt after all the doctors here had given
me up as incurable. I had Sciatica so bad that I could neither
work nor walk. I wore the Belt two nights and the pain stopped.
In a week I had no pain and began to inend. In a month I was
out again prospecting, and I would like to meet a man more
grateful to you than I am. I don’t think I ever will.
P. \V. KELLY.
m_ tha men or women who want to regain their health, who want to feel like they did be hre misfortune
To the men or Books, whioh will show you the road to happiness, lhey are brimful of
overtook them, we off which will give vou oouraga and enlighten you as to the causies and cure of
the things. you vn Hike to pitfalls, and guide you safelv to a future of strength aud happiness,
your ° a nd tell what others have suffered, and how they have ou M
They are beautifully. • .. i r u: s a n v t. If vou are not as well as vou ough tto be, send for
The Qr- (l|c[aughlin Do.,
100 W. Market St., Sydney.
Melbourne office-167E Swanston Street.


nOTHERS !! ! Stop that Cough, check it right away;
FINCHAfI’S 44 Cough I Cure” cures it without delay*
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT :
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
Fincham’s Celebrated Pectoral
“Cough I Cure.” —lnvaluable for Children.
A Reliable Remedy for Croup, Asthma, Whoop-
ing Cough, and all Throat and Lung Affections.
Once used, always used. Stops the awful tickling
and wheezing in the throat. The enemy of the
hacking cough. It induces sleep by its soothing
influence. No mother should he without a bottle.
Fincham’s “Gout and Rheumatic
Cure.” —Takes certain effect in cases of Acute
Lumbago, Sciatica, Lame Back, Headache,
Shoulder and Muscular Pains.
Dr. Hughes’ “Fits Epilep.” —A certain
remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms. Won-
derful cures are registered from its use.
Dr. Jones’ Obesity Cure. —Will cure ex-
cessive stoutness in a few weeks. The friend of
stout people.
Dr. Steel’s Celebrated Indigestion
Cure.— The enemy of Indigestion and Dys-
pepsia.
Pyramid Pile Cure. —A certain remedy.
Dr. Wilson's “ Neuralgia Mixture.” —
One Dose Relieves, One Bottle Cures the most
agonising Face Neuralgia.
Fincham’s “Capiline.”— A Nursery Hair-
Wash for Children’s Heads. Unsurpassed. One
Bottle Sufficient. A sure destroyer of vermin in
the hair. Removes dandruff, leaving the hair
healthy and free from disease.
Fincham's Face Bleach.— Clears the skin
from Spots, Redness, Roughness, Freckles, Tan,
Sunburn, &c. Invaluable for use in the country.
Makes the skin soft and fragrant, fair to the
sight and fine to the touch. Ladies’ other re-
quisites of any description for use in the Boudoir
or Nursery.
Fincham’s Infallible Worm Powders. —
Specially suitable for children. A certain cure
for worms.
Dr. Steel’s Celebrated Influenza Cure
Invaluable in cases of epidemic Influenza. A
speedy relief.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be posted to any Australian address, secure
from breakage, on application to—
THE OWL CUT-RATE PRU 6 CO.,
227 ELIZABETH STREET (opp. Hyde Park), SYDNEY.
C. P. FINCHAM, Pharmaceutical Chemist.
STATE EXPRESS Cig-arettes.
Made from the
FINEST
VIRGINIAN
TOBACCOS
HAND MADE,
FREE FROM DUST,
HARMLESS to the
THROAT.
«-
HH
■■ $
«* MY DARLING,”
“ASTORIA,”
“quo val:
“ WALDORF,”
NO. 999,
NO. 555.
MANUFACTURED BY THE ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LONDON.
UNEQUALLED
for
FLAVOR and
AROMA
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages ; price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
DOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, 50 engravings, 3/0 ;
posted, 4/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-; Magic
Up-to-Date, 1/3 ; M etaTj Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6 ; Camille, 1/3 ; How to
Play Billiards, 1/3; How to Vamp, 1/8;
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
1 /-: Poultry Keeping, 1/-; Horse and
Cattle Doctor., 1/-; Parlor Magic, 1/- ;
Dreah Book, 1/-; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6 ; Carpentry, 1/6 ; Lightning
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor 1/6 ;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts,
1/3 ; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/8 ;
Book of Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer’s Oracle,
3000 subjects, 1/6 ; Self Instructor, 1,3 ;
How TO Danee, 1/3 ; Art of Boxing, 1/3 ;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3; Moll Flanders,
1/6; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3 ; Ven-
triloquism, 1/- ; Oomic Reciter, 150 gems,
1/8 ; Irish Oomic Reciter, 1/3; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3; Nigger Stump
Speeches, 1/3; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6 ; Sappho (genuine), 1/6 ;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6;
Advice to Women, 1/3; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 3/-; Palmistry, chart and guide,
6d. ; Clog Dancing, 1/-. Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues—Plays, Conjuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK AND MAGIC
ARCADE, -
201 BourKe-st.. Melbourne.
SUITINGS for WINTER
Tweed Suitings
Serges
Fancy Worsteds
Bannockburns
Homespuns
Trouserings
Fancy Vestings
We have made a more than
ordinarily extensive selection
of designs and shades for this
season, including the fashionable
speckled and snowflake cloths
which, having come to hand, are
now opened up for inspection,
and have arranged for supple-
mentary shipments to reach us
fortnightly through the season.
Costume Cloths
Riding Habits
Cycling Costumes
Dress and Frock
Suitings
Fancy Coatings
Overcoatings
TAILORS,
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
73 and 75 KING ST., SYDNEY.
WE shall be obliged if those of our customers residing out of Sydney will kindly call in
when next in town, and let us again record their measures for comparison with those
already in our books, in order that such may be kept always up to date; and shall be
happy to record measures of any prospective customer, which may then be available on some
future occasion, at a time when inconvenient to be in Sydney.
Lady clients will find us fully equipped in our department of . . .
LADIES’ TAILORING.
We carry a well-assorted stock of Costume Cloths, Tweeds, New Snowflake Cloths, &c., &c.,
and have made arrangements for meeting a large increase of business this season.
We are also the sole agents in N.S.W. for the well-known . . .
VERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
and are well stocked in all lines in both Wool Fabrics and Cottons.
Call or Write for full Illustrated Catalogue—POST FREE.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
73 & 75 KINO ST., SYDNEY.
.4
W Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
)
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
Barters
’ITTLE
- -
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the
LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter’s
(George Adams,
9
Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tatter sail’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every .£l, and so on.
NOW OPEN
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 3, 50,000 at 5/1.
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 4, 100,000 at 5/1.
ADELAIDE GRAND N ATIONAL HURDLE, Victoria Park, S.A., August 8, 25,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in didivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORG®
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARGtb
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.


W/
m
Beauty, splendor, elegance! Rich
and heavy braids! Long and flowing
tresses!
Ayer’s Hair Vigor feeds the hair
and makes it grow long and heavy It
stops falling of the hair, completely
cures dandruff, and keeps the scalp
clean and healthy.
As a dressing for the hair you will
certainly be greatly pleased with it.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
You can always rely upon it for
restoring color to your gray hair all
the full, rich color it had in early life.
There is no doubt about this. You
need have no fear of being disap-
pointed. We speak with a knowledge
that covers over fifty years of experi-
ence with this valuable preparation.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J C. Ayer & Co , Lowell. Mass . U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
llair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. Ion?,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to co mtrv orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hainvork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
FLUID
OIL
ORUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
80AP8
DIBINFEOTORB
INHALERS
FUMIQATORB
Nfl
FLUID.
«/• .
OOLORLE^S
FRAGRANT
NON-
POISONOUB
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIB.
Sulphur Candles - \
Formic Fumigators /
KINGZETTS
PATENTS.
"HOW TO DISINFECT" Book Free.
The “SANITAS” CO., L*d. t
Bethnal Green, LONDON, E;
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
repared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
- 25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
t ry It,
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under eover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
The Aetutt,
Price, 10s. 6d.
C D . SOLE AO ENTS.
'G &. AITKEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 CEORCE STREET, SYQSEY.
J-he representative book of Australian humor
STEELE RUDD’S
“On Our Selection/’
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISHLMOSS
Jn:3
>MC
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING*
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
Commercial
Bugrgry,
£l4 109.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
t3T Send for a
Catalogue.
Rent Sha i Sulkies
£lO IJs.
IMPORTANT NOTICE tc
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £BlOB.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
21/-
21/-
MOST MARVELLOUS VALUH
A SOLID SILYER KEYLESS
Hunting Watch.
Heavy Case, Sound Movement,
Perfect Timekeeper
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
21 j-
Posted Duty Free to any part of Australia.
Send for my New Illustrated Catalogue.
QUEENSLAND LEADING JEWELLER
'HXriAIS d H
Queen Street, Brisbane
and at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
WINCHESTER
URING our 30 years of gun making, we have
discovered many things about ammunition that
no one could learn in any other way. Our
discoveries in this line, together with years of
experience manufacturing ammunition, enable us
to embody many fine points in Winchester
Metallic Cartridges for rifles and revolvers which make them
superior in many ways to all other brands upon the market.
Winchester cartridges in all calibers are accurate, sure-fire
and exact in size; being made and loaded in a modern
manner by skilled experts. If you want the best
INSIST UPON HAVING WINCHESTER MAKE OF CARTRIDGES.
w E stocks WSNCHESTEP GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd
ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
mV UOd HIVH
croo-o
All Chemists.
Holland's Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it ia
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., sa. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
m- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
aar For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul. & Co.
Pitt-streefc, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
~ ij bv a ii chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen-Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 Georgo
BOIU y Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I’O DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MAMJEACTUKERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You may be able to reach the earthly
paradise by taking a short cut through a
South American communal settlement, but it
doesn’t look likely. Poor, plucky little Cosine
colony was at latest having a shocking time,
and the road seemed worse ahead ; frosts had
ruined the sugar crop, the markets for the other
products had been heartlessly unkind, and a
greyer gloom than ever had settled hard on all
that was left of the pilgrims.
Camp Fire Musings.
The camp fire plays upon the trees
In waves of warm caressing light,
And on the mild and scented breeze
Come all the whispers of the night.
And now and then the dead leaves fall
With just a rustle soft and low;
And what’s the meanin’ of it all ?
I dunno !
From all around me I can hear
The sound of things that live and die ;
And now and then from somewhere near
There comes the curlew’s haunting cry.
Whilst here beside the fire I sprawl
With thoughts that ever come and go,
But what’s the meanin’ of ’em all ?
I dunno !
One hears again and yet again
Of what a fellow ought to be;
But still it don’t seem very plain,
Leastways, it don’t seem so to me—
I s’pose the watchword, “ Duty’s Call,”
Should mark the road one has to go ;
But what one’s duty is at all—
I dunno!
It’s hard to mind what preachers say—
“ Give unto every man his due,
And alius act in such a way
As you would men should act to you.”
If any man with greedy lust
Tries hard to score and lay you low,
Well, ain’t it right to have him fust?
I dunno!
I s’pose for some the path o’ life
Lies smooth and easy as they tread ;
For others, there’s the storm and strife,
And dark clouds frownin’ overhead.
No wonder that we trip and fall,
Or at the best go very slow;
And what’s the meanin’ of it all ?
I dunno !
The good old bush is pretty rough,
And when my spirits fade and die
I sometimes think I’ve had enough :
It seems no sort of use to try.
The mornin’s break, the evenin’s fall,
And I—well, what have I to show ?
Can man e’er dare to hope at all ?
I dunno!
BIG BEN.
To Get the Ploughin' Done.
The farmer flogs in early year
To get the ploughin’ done :
“ The days of March will soon be here,
And I have just begun.”
He hurries in a later day
To get the discin’ done :
“ I’ve got no time for sport and play—
No time to waste on fun.”
The weeks go on, and then his walk
Is more than half a run :
“ I can’t afford to stop and talk ;
The sowin’ must be done.”
When all the seed is sown, his pace
Them fairly takes the bun:
■“ Therels lots to do about the place;
That! fencin’ must be done.”
And when the fields are golden-topped
With touch of Summer sun :
“ The harvester must not \ e stopped,
The strippin’ must be done.”
The farmer man, the long year through,
Where wheaten wealth is won,
Is always in a hurry to
Be gettin’ something done.
And when upon the reel of Life
No thread is left unspun,
Another takes the home and wife
And gets the ploughin’ done.
VIO.
GLENABA.
Out Back.
The night-wind sings thro’ the silent street,
But the town folk cannot hear,
Though her lilting notes sound strangely sweet
To the bushman’s quicker ear;
For the song she sings as she wanders by
Is a song of the sunset track,
And of waving blue grass, stirrup-high—
In the land of the great Out Back !
The hearts of the men from the sunset land
Beat time to the sweet refrain,
And their fingers ache for the rope and brand,
And the touch of a bridle-rein ;
While they dream of the steeds they used to ride—
Perchance of a dear old hack—
Or “ the best camp-horse in the country-side ”:
There are dozens of them Out Back !
They listen long to the night wind’s croon,
As she sings of a season fair;
And their pulses throb to the gladsome tune,
For the sake of the land out there ;
For the sake of the dear old mates of yore
(True mates when the world looked black);
And their eyes grow dim as they dream once more
Of the men they have known Out Back !
N.S.W.
SPINIFEX.


QWINO TO INCREASED DEMAND FOR THE
HIGHEST CLASS OF SCOTCH WHISKY
THE PROPRIETORS ARE NOW PLACING ON THIS MARKET THEIR
‘‘EXTRA SPECIAL” QUALITY
FOUR RED CROWN WHISKY,
OLD AND MELLOW,
the lame as supplied under ROYAL WARRANT, and sold largely in Great Britai#,
♦
IN BULK AND BOTTLE, From all Hotels and Spirit Merchants.
Wholesale Agent, NORMAN SHELLEY, YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
A Torturing Liver.
“HN EXPERIMENT."
The Best Bargain I Ever Made.
The Case of tyre. B. LAWLER
(by a reporter).
The inventions of paper and the pres*
have put an end to all the restraints with
which our forefathers were fettered, and
they have not only made everyone a writer,
but have also enabled every mind to pour
itself into print and diffuse itself over the
whole intellectual world. The consequences
are inestimable, as, if the slow and laborious
operation of writing on parchment was still
in existence it would be difficult to acquaint
all our readers with such important matters
as are spoken of by Mrs. Bridget Lawler,
of Northwood-street, Camperdown.
“I was once stricken with a terrible
malady,” began that lady. “It was an
attack of rheumatism which started in my
feet and worked its way into my hands, the
pain being so great that the joints felt as if
they were being screwed round in a vice. I
was very stout when I was first taken ill,
but four years’ intense suffering took all the
flesh off my body, besides making me very
weak and irritable, days the pains
were not so bad, while at other times they
were so severe that I was a regular cripple
through them, and could not get out "of bed.
At the best my limbs were almost useless,
for I had to go from one room to another
on my hands and knees, so that will tell
you how sorely pressed 1 was.”
“ Did any complications arise?” queried
the newspaper man.
“ They did indeed—any amount of them,
for my system seemed to be upset right
throughout. One of the chief causes of my
weakness was through my food coming back
almost as soon as it was taken, and I hardly
got five minutes’ respite from i etching both
day and night. wonder, then, that my
eyes felt swollen and that my sight was bad,
and that I used to lie in a state of exhaustion
for hours, with my head pierced by sharp
pains as if rheumatism was there also. Oh !
it wa* a vfretched time for me, and one
which I would not go through again for
thousands of pounds. I thought the vomit-
ing was caused through food being taken
against my inclination, but I was bound to
eat a liitle sometimes, even though my
appetite was gone, or I would have co,lapsed
altogether. A heavy kind of pain in the
chest was very troub esome, too, as it
seemed to weigh me down to such an extent
that I could not get my breath properly,
and thoughts of smothering often entered
my mind, although I was not afraid of
doing so in my sleep, because I very rarely
got any. It was quite an extraordinary
event for me to sleep three hours at a time,
and only happened when I was so exhausted
that even my tortures could not keep me
awake any longer ; but for all that I did
not feel rested afterwards, as the nasty
dreams I had seemed to take away all the
refreshing influences of sleep. When my
eyes opened again I still felt languid and
heavy and so low spirited and desolate that
all brightness seemed to have vanished from
my life. After , taking any necessary
nourishment my stomach filled out with
wind, fihus bringing into force another dis-
comfort, which frequently developed into
pains like the cramps, and lasting till every-
thing, as usual, was vomited. About the
shoulders, too, I had reason to complain
owing to irritating pains getting a hold
there, while nothing could be more un-
welcome than the sickly taste I had in my
mouth every morning, besides having a
whitish coating on my tongue. These
symptoms made me understand very clearly
that my liver was deranged to a serious
degree, and I suppose my doctors knew that
as well, but still I did not benefit my«elf in
any way by remaining under their treat-
ment.”
“ How many doctors did you have?”
“ It would be very hard for me to *ay
exactly. Indeed, I had- so many that I
cannot remember them all, and I have no
reason to keep them in mind, because not
one of them did me any good. The more I
went to the worse I got, and then I started
taking advertised piils and medicines, one
particular kind of which having such an
injurious effect upon me that after taking a
certain quantity I was almost paralysed on
one side of my body. There was very little
medicine I had not taken more or less of,
hut I was now afraid to resort to any of
them again. I went on in misery for a
while without anything, but, being so help-
less that I could not even handle a cup, I
thought I would never get better that way,
and as I had tried everything but Clements
Tonic it would not do much harm to see
what that n edicine was like.”
“ Was your experiment attended with any
better results ? ”
“ It was the best bargain I ever made in
my life when I bought some Clements Tonic,
for there was no uncertainty or indecision
about its action or my internal organs,
which felt its curative propensities much
more readily than I had deemed possible.
For a long time past my nerves had been
very weak, and I was upset and tremulous
at all sorts of trifling incidents, but that
was one of my troubles which Clements
Tonic remedied straight away. My nervous
system was greatly invigorated after taking
three or four bottles, and then I ceased
meeting difficulties half-way, for I was so
much brighter in spirits and more hopeful
through receiving such benefit from
Clements Tonic that I thought I might yet
leave my sufferings behind if I gave that
medicine a fair trial. And thus when each
bottle was finished I got another, the
returns for my outlay being a good healthy
appetite and a steady falling off in my
pains. My headaches did not last long
against Clements Tonic, and all the time
my liver symptoms were losing their in-
tensity. 1 slept well at nights, because my
rheumatic pains were less violent, whilst
those about my shoulders and chest had
left altogether, leaving me to breathe with-
out the least distress. I got up with my
mouth free from its objectionable taste, and
after each meal of the day there was an
absence of flatulence and consequent pains ;
but to describe each healthful blessing
which came from every bottle of Clements
Tonic would, perhaps, take up too much of
your time. I must content myself by say-
ing that in a few weeks my internal com-
plaints were quite obliterated, and I was
able to get about my work with a cheerful
heart and a contented mind. The
strengthening and disease-removing powers
of Clements Tonic simply astounded me
after the many experiences I had with other
medicines, and I would be very ungrateful
indeed if I kept this knowledge to myself.”
“ Did your various pains leave as quickly
as the rest ? ”
“ No ; but although it took some time to
get me well and strong again in every
resptct there is none the less credit due to
Ch-ments Tonic, as it was the only medicine
which was able to bring me back to health,
and I am willing to let you publish my story
in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Bridukt Lawlbr, of Northwood-street,
Camperdown, Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting
of four folios, and consecutively numbered from one
to four, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in any
wav my statements which 1 give voluntarily, and
without receiving any payment ; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
the Oaths Act, 1800.
'JM
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown, this
twen'\fifth day of March, one thousand nine hundred
and two, oefore me,
ROBERT ELSTUB, J.P.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Venturas,
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Fru.
V
By FRANK RENAR.
V
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
FOR THE HUSH WO RILE®
cem-3ufc
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JIJOTICE TO MCOMjBOURNE VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
No. iota.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCIN3 FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing- to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate'y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHA/1.
THE MOST KUTEnittS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DEBILITATED
"WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
vv trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
GORED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars frea.
W. LANGSTON, M R.c.s.. e«i*..
129 Collins-st., Melbourne.
RUPTURE •*»
Ituoyr
withotxl
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
* SURGEON LANGSTON,
K.R.C.S., ENG,,
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
F
By a new discovery, odorless
and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food.
It does its work so silently and
surely that while the devoted
wife, sister or daughter looks on
the drunkard is reclaimed even
against his will and without hi*
knowledge or co-operation.
Miss Edith WILLIAMS, who
cured her father after years of
misery, wreto 1 i edn e.-s and almost
unbearable suffering, says:—“l
Shall be so glad if you publish my
experience, f r it will reach
n any others and let th in know
about the wonderful I UCRASY.
I wi 1 do all I can to 1 e’p any
suffering sister who will write me.” Send name and
address to THE
Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney,
and tlicy wi I send you Booklet and particulars FREE.
The Australian Sailorman’s Book—
E. J. BRADY’S
“Che Slays of many Waters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
ss. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
ALL CHEMISTS
&
&
_ for
_ An/EM!A,
Poverty of Blood'
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause '
TAB LETS
AT 3/6
PER BOX
Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites
CALVERT’S
20 per cent.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soap for toilet purposes. *
Most useful to prevent or cure insect hiiAc
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, etc. * ““ eS
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
°ihtmeht
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves:
Extraction, Sleepless NigUtt
Prevented.
Nearalcic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains remorad by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal, I hare
used it successfully for years.' I —Prof. W. Wilsok, M.J).
The BEST FAMILY MEQECINE
KAYE’S WORSDHLL’S PILLS
certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Sic.
Of all Stores.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchase* •
of our
ELECTRIC
HE ITS and
A EELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before ■
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the'
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electfrtv
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can he
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give »
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. It it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purehasiiifr, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), {.'ivins;
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
Also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
Euzabsxh Stkkkt, SYDNEY.
Ktftrtncts throughout Great Britain and Colonitl,
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains •which can
produoe an attack. You can
•at, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: Dr. P. HAROLD HAYES’ ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE*
Buffalo, N. Y„ U. S. A.
WEBSTER’S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
Large Tins, 6d.
All chemists.
Equal to any
imported article.
Cleans the teeth not merely by fric-
tion but antiseptically. It keeps them
bright, pure, healthy and strong.
If your chemist or storekeeper does not stock
it—take no other, hut send 7d. in stamps direct
to us for a tin.
ALEXANDER J. WEBSTER,
SOLE PROPRIETOR i MANUFACTURER.
177 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific'
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you wilt
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,--
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. IV rite
to G. Specific, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.


TTTK SPECIALISE in but one direction, i.e., the
EQUIPMENT OF OFFICE 3
on »n UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM.
No Busines- can
succeed without
METHOD.
This METHOD
we supply.
WABASH
EXPANSION
Busnoss
Systems.
Letter Files.
Document Files
Card Index
Systems
For all
Businesses.
Write for
Catalogue.
I&VL
L.aiS
i— •—»
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australasia.
American school op corres-
pondence, post office box,
629, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Please send me Catalogue and par-
ticulars of the Technical Education
you give for the position, before which
I have marked X.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Steam Engineer
Marine Engineer
Qivil Engineer
Mining Engineer
Sanitary Engineer
S rvevor
Architect
Draftsman
Textile Designer
Carpenter
Builder
Plumber
Gas-Fitter
Navigator
Chemist and Prer
Telephone Engineer
Name
Street and No.
City or Town
FREE BOOK OH
MAGNETIC HEALING
IliW
Reader, why not be able to use the most mysterious
and powerful force of nature ? By my method you can
learn to Hypnotise in a few hours’time. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats that are possihle to
the Hypnotist. Through Hypnotism you can cure dis-
ease, conquer pain, gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you nothing to find
out all about it. I have issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or KEY to HYPNOTISM, which fully
e\plains the mysteries and secrets of the Art. It con-
tains beautiful and artistic engravings, and is the most
elaborate and extensive thing of the kind ever published.
For a short time I will send this magnificent book FREE,
on receipt of two stamps to cover postage. Order to-day
and learn to Hypnotise. It is a chance of a lifetime.
ADDRESS :
PROF. R. H BARRADEN,
89 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REK3ECY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strengthof body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor H. read,
165 Collins Street, Melbourne.
upmi£
[VEGETABLE]
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri*
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S P T IRE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemist' and Stores.
Havi ?ghad complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,nlease see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L.B., in monogram.’on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
TkEAR SIR,—I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURBT,
Pitt street, Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
55., P. 0.0. or stamps.
8. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffaoh, Cermany
THEB^ALI^T^IBX
6s
il
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
' f n<i stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
SViadame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0., BYDNBY.
SAVE YOUR HAIR
With Shampoos of Cuticura Soap
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling hair,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails,
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and smoothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchinss, and in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toi let, as well as by mi Uions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
Irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often suflicient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Potter DRUG
And Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, digestive, and the purest, sweetest, most successful ana
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-disjestives.
IP*
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
and consult OLD SURGEON LANGSTON, member of the Roval
College of Surgeons, Eng., who will cure you. Forty years’
practice as a Specialist is sufficient guarantee of the doctor’s
ability. I do not seek to demonstrate a theory. I have no time for that,
for I am accomplishing facts. I am curing-thousands who have
given upall hope of life. I am bring ng joy and happiness
into hundreds of homes. If you suffer from kidney and liver disease,
lung, stomach or heart trouble, consumption, debility, insomnia, blood
poison, Varicocele, headaches, backache, nervousness, or any disease
or weakness of the vital organs, come to me and I will cure you
and make you well. The people whom I have snatched from the very
jaws of death and have lifted up and given strength and health are
living witnesses of the everlasting power of my treatment. It
matters not how long you have been afflicted ; it matters not how
hopeless or helpless you may be ; it matters not what doctors have
said or what remedies have failed to cure you ; it matters not whether
you have faith.
EST I WILL CURE YOU.
A NEW TREATMENT AND GUARANTEED CURE FOR VARICOCELE WITHOUT OPERATION.
Be the Equal of Your Fellow Man.
If vou are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne
Established In Melbourne 1886.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art ok Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
HOME cyclopedia
HMBRACIR3
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar- '
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. S appho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue-post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA AND BRONCHITIS CURED
By using; CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J„ W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
To vc te*<
|’S
Bttca
A# ttS
*»®s£
« V^ U A C\^ eb
Vs a ro \&s-
caU ** d
tvvo
,\d
\ttv^
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
The Great English Remedy for
COUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured In a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d.
ier box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suiter from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
EVERY WOMAN
S 3
A,
SS!
M
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALfc SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best'
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
to ladies. ' Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AuL\w-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by using
P'S RX COED’®
tSSfcH c£ of F fc-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life affords relief and permanently
cures all who suffer from wasting and withering of the
nervous tissues; restores Energy, Strength and
Vitality to the most weak and shattered constitutions
(no matter from what cause) and regenerates all the
important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; N.S.W.— Fauldlng & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
CTTna
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. .
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


Hennessy’s
Old Battle Axe
Brand
Is Known
and
Appreciated
all
the
World
Over.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
Zfer&LUet, fligh fo
Wealthy
9
TRY
J&ejl
Refuse a?//m/tat/onto
Satisfying. Strengthening Soothing for Infarlti
Agreeable. Digestible. Nourishing
AGFAtTS FOP SYD/fFY.
SAYFPS AHP OFF & POT ft:ft
RIDGE’S FOOD MILLS.LONDON.£nc
A Progressive Dietary suited to the Growing Digestive Powers,
The
Young Infants thrive and sleep well, and are contented
and happy, being saved from the digestive troubles common to
those fed on farinaceous foods, condensed milk, or even cow’s milk.
Milk Food no. 1, Milk Food n«. 2. Malted Food N 0.3,
From birth to three months. From three to six months. From six months and upwards.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding and Management free from
495, Bourhe Street, Melbourne.
TSlalaEN & HWNBItRYS laid., IaONIDON.
TE'/n
CWj/vrC*
Ruberoid Roofing
is made in four thicknesses, called “ plies,” but only one quality (the Best) and one color (Grey). The
thickest (3-ply) is a shade under an eighth of an inch thick. All plies must be laid over some kind of a
foundation, such as close boarding, 3m. by iin. battens or 36in. x 3m. x i6in. gauge galvanized wire
netting. Painting is not necessary, but it is recommended at the end of 18 to 24 months. Each roll is
one yard wide, twenty-four yards long, and if used according to our recommendations, Ruberoid will
make the face of every user beam with satisfaction. Genuine Ruberoid Roofing, properly used, will
“ look well,” “ wear well,” and give excellent satisfaction for many years in this or in any other climate.
Caution! Be sure you get the Genuine.
If in doubt, write direct to AGENTS-
Fremantle, W.A.
J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
A. W. Sandford & Co.,
Melbourne, Vic.
Brooks, Robinson & Co.
Launceston, Tas.
Hedeey Button.
Wellington, N.Z.
Jambs W. Jack.
E. RICH &. CO., Limited, B
RISBANE.
SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 84.— N0. 1215.
SATURDAY, MAY 30, 1903.
Prick 6d.
INTER-EMPIRE FREETRADE—(i.e, PREFERENCE TO NIGGER-LABOR PRODUCTS).
THE BRITISH LION: "HERE, MY YOUNG FRIEND, IS A LITTLE GIFT I HAVE FOR YOU. I'M GOING TO GIVE PREFERENCE TO YOUR GOODS
AND YOU TO MINE, AND WE'LL ALL BE ONE-ONE THRONE, ONE TARIFF."
LETTLE BOY FROM MANLY: “THAT'S ALL RIGHT, JOHN, BUT WHAT ABOUT THE OTHER PAW AND YOUR FRIENDS THERE!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ ,1 u strut in for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICK.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all easiness Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
lAtevary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this •paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceed-
ing tiro columns in length, or, sail, 2000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications mil be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But roe
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amu tours in nine,lt, unrl White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture, which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bios,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver . Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
SATURDAY, MAY 30, 1903.
The Punishment of Irvine.
The humor of Yic. Premier Irvine’s Anti-Strike
Bill having been now sufficiently enjoyed, the
practical problem which it presents to the Aus-
tralian Legislature must be faced. That problem
is a very serious one. The fact of Irvine’s attempt
to hatch a revolution having failed does not,
intrinsically, affect at all the fact that the
attempt was made. There is a tendency, natural
enough, to regard addled eggs as of no conse-
quence one way or the other. Whatever birds or
serpents they might have produced, they’re
addled, and that’s an end of them. The Irvine
plan to overthrow the Constitution and establish
a reign of lawlessness was abandoned; and
some, even among the zealous upholders of
law and liberty, may be inclined to let
the matter end there. Irvine was ambitious
for a coup d'etat; he failed ridiculously. Let a be-
spattering of contemptuous laughter be his punish-
ment. But not in such a spirit are constitutions
to be guarded and sacred rights defended. The
would-be assassin whose shot misses the mark, the
burglar whose breaking-in is futile, does not for
that reason receive a pardon ; nor should the high
political offender find his offence condoned be-
cause, in his effort at a treason to the Constitution
and to the rights and liberties Of the people, he failed.
Should that be established as a rule, then such
offences would seldom find punishment, for success
usually puts the offender beyond the reach of the
law. The man who carries through his coup d’etat
can, as a rule, defy the efforts of constitutionalism
and legality to reach him. It is only by inflicting
penalties on those who fail that would-be offenders
can be deterred.
• * _ * *
Premier Irvine of Victoria must be held to have
intended quite seriously to pass through his
astonishing Anti-Strike Bill. He had summoned
Parliament especially for the purpose of passing
some such legislation. He kept one Chamber of
Parliament hovering around the House whilst the
other debated the measure; and an all-night
sitting to get the Bill through without an adjourn-
ment was entered upon. All the circumstances
point to the fact that lie intended to pass the
Anti-Strike Bill through all its stages in both
Houses within 24 hours, to get a misguided
Governor’sassent, and to administer itatonee. The
tactics of the Labor party in stonewalling the
measure alone prevented it becoming law ; that’s
the only fair conclusion which can be arrived at
from the records of the last session of the Vic-
torian State Parliament. If it had become law
certain things would have been enforced, and in a
sense legalised, in Victoria which are utterly re-
pugnant to common sense and justice ; the
Common Law would have been tom to shreds,
and the Australian Commonwealth Constitution
would have been broken and defied. The first
two sets of results it is not necessary to discuss
further now—common sense and the Common
Law may be left to protect themselves. But the
attack on the Australian Constitution cannot be
allowed to pass unnoticed by the body so recently
sworn to its defence —the Australian Parliament.
» * * *
The unprecedented nature of the events sur-
rounding the attempt of Irvine on the Australian
Constitution must be kept in mind when con-
sidering a method of remedy, which must be
necessarily, in a measure, also unprecedented.
The Australian Constitution, having been affirmed
by the people of the continent and brought legally
into force as a national compact, the Australian
Parliament met for its first session and, con-
fronted by a too vast burden of work in establish-
ing the machinery of a new Government,
was obliged to prorogue, after a most trying
session, with some of its essential preliminary busi-
ness undone. With the necessity of postponing
something, the Australian Parliament, by a more
or less conscious process of reasoning, concluded
that one task which might be left to a future
session was the establishment of a Federal
Supreme Court to guard the Constitution against
attack, and to interpret its provisions and the pro-
visions of the laws passed under its power. The
naturally law-abiding character of the Australian
people, the absence here of any revolutionary
spirit, the enthusiasm for a new Constitution
—all tended to urge that a Supreme Court
would certainly not be immediately required
to meet any grave crisis. So the Australian
Parliament went out of session without
leaving a Federal High Court to continue its
authority. True, it invested the Supreme
Courts of the States with temporary Federal
authority, but that power was neces-
sarily restricted. Had Irvine passed his
Anti-Strike Bill, as it was proposed, The
Bulletin, for one, would have sought authority
from the Supreme Court of Victoria —acting as a
temporary Federal Court —to restrain him in his
law-breaking efforts, and, as a matter of justice
and law, should have obtained that authority.
But the State Supreme Court might have been
over-awed by the State power, or, supposing it at
first took up an attitute of independence, Irvine
might, with the power of Parliament at his back,
have coerced it into obedience to his illegal
enactment, with the same recklessness as he sought
to take from it the power of giving bail, conferred
by Magna Charta. Such were the conditions
when Irvine made his attack upon the Australian
Constitution —the Parliament out of session,
the High Court not in existence, and no
absolutely certain defender of the Constitution
available. The circumstances were singularly
favorable for a coup d’etat. They will almost
certainly never be so favorable again.
The attack, too, was not at all a subtle or
a timorous one. In his proposed law Irvine
sought power to punish with fines and imprison-
ment Federal officers who, in pursuit of their duty
in the Post-office, distributed letters, publications
and prints which Irvine placed under ban ; and
to punish with equal severity persons engaged in
the inter-State carriage of such newspapers as
opposed Irvine’s strike policy. Had the Bill
passed, Federal Postmaster-General Drake
and all his officers within reach of a
Victorian policeman might have been arrested
and held in gaol without bail; and such of
the carriers of the Commonwealth, by rail or
otherwise, as happened to be engaged in carrying
through Victoria articles of commerce of which
Irvine disapproved were liable to the same treat-
ment. And there was no prospect of relief
except from the Victorian Supreme Court, which
might, if not sufficiently servile to Irvine, have
been driven from the Bench by Irvine’s mad and
hysterical Parliament.
V « • f
The situation which made Irvine’s revolu-
tionary proposals so dangerous was an extra-
ordinary one, and justifies a punishment out of the
ordinary. That there should be some punishment
all reasonable men will admit. The safeguards
which the Common Law, the charters of freedom
won by the English commoners, and our own Federal
Constitution, provide against disorder, lawlessness,
oppression and tyranny are of such high import
that no attempt at their destruction should be
allowed to pass unpunished, until all possible
means of remedy have been exhausted. Sweep
away those safeguards and there is an end to
civil liberty and public safety, and anarchy
begins. Encroach on them ever so little, and the
way is opened to a flood of disorder and lawless-
ness. Should Irvine’s abortive attempt to
defy the law, and to destroy the Constitution
under cover of the law, go without public
punishment, its precedent will, mayhap, some
day be used in a more terrible fashion by an
anarchical and revolutionary body* seizing power
temporarily, and making use of its opportunity
to absolutely overthow the Commonwealth. The
Australian Parliament cannot allow the vicious
example of Irvine to pass unnoticed and remain
true to its oaths.
* * • »
And the remedy? Ordinary methods of pro-
cedure must, it is clear, fail. There is in existence
no Federal High Court; were such a body called
into existence at once, it would find it difficult to
take into cognisance Irvine’s abortive Jack-
Cadeism, though if it had been in existence at the
time of his attempt it could have promptly
restrained him and punished him for contumacy.
The Supreme ulourt of the States cannot
punish Irvine for proposing a Bill which
contravened no State statute. The Victorian
Parliament, which was a participant in
Irvine’s lawless and foolish attempt, and was
apparently quite willing to pass his Bill, cannot be
expected to punish his offence. The Australian
Parliament is the only body which has at once the
right, the power and the duty to interfere.
» • » *
That interference should take the form of
impeachment. Impeachment is an extraordinary
process, as yet practically unknown to Australian
Parliamentary history, but often employed in the
past in England, and not at all rare in the United
States. A court of impeachment, writes Hamil-
ton, discussing the Constitution of the United
States, and defending the process of impeach-
ment.—
Has as the subjects of its jurisdiction those offences
which proceed from the misconduct of public men, or, in
other words, from the abuse or violation of some public
trust. They are of a nature which may, with peculiar
propriety be denominated political, as they relate chiefly
to injuries done immediately to society itself.
A noted Swiss commentator on the British Con-
stitution defines impeachment as
affording one immediate remedy' for the evils of the
State, and strongly marking out the bounds within which
power ought to he confined ; which takes away the
scandal of guilt and authority united, and cairns the
people by a great and awful act of justice. . But who
shall be the judges to decide in such a cause? What
tribunal will flatter itself that it can give an impartial
decision when it shall see, appearing at its bar, the
Government itself as the accused and the representatives
of the people as the accusers f It is before the House of
Peers that the law has directed the Commons to carry
their accusation.
Creasy, in his text-book on the British Con-
stitution, writes:—
The right of impeachment most strikingly illustrates
the great principle that the ministers and servants of the
Crown are responsible for acts of misconduct in which
they take part, notwithstanding that they may have
acted under the order of the Sovereign. . . . Closelv
connected with this, is the recognised right of every in-
dividual to resist the execution of an illegal act against
his person or property, although it is tut, officer of the
regular executive power of the State who seeks to commit
the act and who seeks to do it in his official character.
* * « *
Much of this points so directly at Premier
Irvine’s case as to almost seem to have been
written with prescience. Another authority
(Story on the U.S. Constitution) directly points
the finger to impeachment as the method to be
adopted towards Irvine :
The object of impeachments in both countries (i.e.,
England and the U.S.) is to reach high and potent offen-
ders, such as might be presumed to escape punishment
in the ordinary tribunals, either from their own extra 1
ordinary influence or from the imperfect organisation
and powers of those tribunals. . . . Strictly speaking,
then, the power (of impeachment) partakes of a political
character as it respects injuries to the society in its
political character
The same writer, on the range of impeachments
Political offences are of so various and complex a
character, so utterly incapable of being defined or
classified, that the task of positive legislation would be
impracticable, if it were not almost absurd to attempt it.
What, for instance, could positive legislation do in cases
of impeachment like the charge against Warren
Hastings, in 1788? Resort, then, must be had either to
Parliamentary practice or the common law, in order to
ascertain what are high crimes and misdemeanors, or the
whole subject must be left to the arbitrary discretion of
the Senate for the time being. . . . The only safe guide in
such cases must be the common law, which is the guardian
at once of private rights and public liberties. And, however
much it may fall in with the political theories of certain
statesmen and jurists to deny the existence of a common
law belonging to and applicable to the nation in ordinary
cases, no one has yet been bold enough to assert that the
power of impeachment is limited to offences positively
defined in the statute book of the Union as impeachable
high crimes and misdemeanors. . . . Congress has un-
hesitatingly adopted the conclusion that no previous
statute is necessary to authorise an impeachment for any
official misconduct. ... In examining the history of
impeachments (in England) it will be found that many
offences not easily definable by law, and many of
a purely political character, have been deemed high
crimes and misdemeanors worthy of this extraordinary
remedy. Thus Lord Chancellors and Judges and other
magistrates have not only been impeached for bribery
and acting grossly contrary to the duties of their office,
but for misleading their sovereign by unconstitutional
opinions, and for attempts to subvert the fundamental
laws and introduce arbitrary power.
These extracts from recognised authorities on
English and American constitutional law are
necessary to prove the last of the following points :
1. That Premier Irvine strove to establish arbitrary
rule and break the Federal Constitution, and sought
power to imprison Federal officers whilst in the pursu-
ance of their lawful duty.
2. That Premier Irvine must be punished in some way,
or else the precedent is established that the Constitution
may be attacked with impunity.
3. That the ordinary processes of the law courts hold
out no hope of a successful prosecution of Premier
Irvine.
4. That there is a power of impeachment latent in the
Australian Parliament—a power in use in England and
the United States, a power extraordinary in its nature
and especially designed with a view to punishing unfore-
seen offences of a political character, a power peculiarly
applicable to the present case.
The Australian Parliament need inflict on Irvine
—if on impeachment he should be found guilty—
no such punishment as forfeiture or imprisonment.
The punishments inflicted on great offenders
would give an undeserved importance to the
pinchbeck revolutionary. A severe censure—a
formal pronouncement of that obloquy which
soon will cover his name by the public voice—
would perhaps suffice to warn men in the future
of the existence of awful latent powers in a
nation’s Parliament. That would be enough.
Nothing less will do away with the danger to the
Commonwealth brought into existence by the
unchecked lawlessness of this Tory Premier.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Beginnings of Repudiation.
When the Victorian Assembly met, last week,
after the railway men had “ surrendered,” Icicle
Irvine announced that the penal clauses of the
Strike Suppression Bill would be abandoned.
Then, quite in keeping with the record of his
Government for straining and breaking its pro-
mises, lie proceeded to pass a penal clause of a
most drastic nature—he demanded and obtained
power to fine every railway man the amount of his
accrued pension. Thus the position is that, for
doing something which was not an illegal act, the
men are to be punished in spite of the undertaking
under which they were induced to resume work.
The State had entered into certain obligations
with regard to the men, and, on Irvine’s invi-
tation, it now repudiates those obligations ; and
thus it enters upon a course so dishonorable that
it has always been represented that no Australian
community could possibly follow it. So far, it
is true, nobody more influential than a
handful of working - men Suffer; but the
State whose moral sense is so dull that
it will diddle its servants, who have done
nothing illegal, out of their pension-rights, can
hardly be expected to see anything outrageous in
diddling its other creditors as well. It is sug-
gested that, by striking, the railway men had
already forfeited their rights ; but if that were
honestly and fully believed, there was no need for
the provision in the Bill. The plain fact is that,
having done something which was quite legal, but
which did not meet with the approval of Irvine
and Bent, those colossal bunglers and tyrants pro-
ceeded, by means of a measure of Parliament, to
punish them by committing the State to an act
of repudiation—its first deliberate act, so
far as The Bulletin knows. No instrument
of punishment could be more dangerous ; and
that the State has not hesitated to employ
it, deliberately, by Act of Parliament, must cause
serious anxiety to everyone else to whom the
State is under an obligation—cash or otherwise.
Irvine and Bent have led Victoria into the path
of repudiation ; they have thus delivered a
heavier blow against the State’s credit than any
other politicians of late times ; and they have also
pointed Australia the way to retrospective legisla-
tion, since this Bill punishes men now for doing
something that was a perfectly legal act when they
did it. If Parliament adopts this principle no one
will be safe. Premier Irvine has possibly com-
mitted no offence under the existing law.
Yet, a lawyer, he made himself responsible
for a Bill which, as introduced, was almost
certainly unconstitutional. What, then, if, a
few months or years hence, some Parliament,
sweeping in upon a wave of “ Reform ” of another
character, punishes Irvine, the lawyer, by retro-
spective legislation for what he is"doing to-day.
If, in 1900, it makes his acts of 1903 illegal, and
sends him to gaol for them, it will only be
following his own precedent. The guillotine of
retrospective legislation may not end its work
with Irvine either. After Irvine’s Act has been
abolished, and the pension rights restored, and
Irvine has been disbarred and heavily fined and
perhaps put in gaol for doing something that wasn’t
illegal when he did it, but which was made illegal
years afterwards, it may be necessary to do a little
extra taxing ; and a land tax may then be made
retrospective, too. The Conservative will com-
plain, of course ; yet how can he, since he himself
has declared the retrospective Irvine to be Aus-
tralia s only statesman, and a pattern for everv
other leader in every State to follow ’ For The
Bulletin’s part it believes that there is no other
person in political power so unsafe to follow and
it would be glad to believe that there is no other
with such a perverted sense of justice. Unfor-
tunately, though the fact remains that the
State Assembly has endorsed his views bv an
overwhelming majority, and there has been
no outcry, but rather there has been
appkuse, outside Parliament. If only Irvine
had lop-sided views on these matters it would he
of comparatively little consequence; but as a
majority of the State appears to also hold them
there is no telling what may happen in Victoria
in the way of either repudiation or retrospective
legislation. At present, certainly, the wrong is
all against one class of men ; but, then, the person
who is of loose enough moral character to nick
the trousers pocket to-day will probably have no
grave scruples about picking the vest pocket
to-morrow.
The Cheap Defence of Prisoners.
Digby Grand and Henry Jones, found guilty of
the murder of Constable Long at Auburn
(N.S.W.) on Jan. 19, and condemned to death,
are, without a doubt, scoundrels whose removal
from any share in life outside of a gaol wall
would be of distinct benefit to the community.
By profession criminals, and given to armed
burglary, they put themselves constantly in the
position of, in a sense, having to kill a fellow
creature. The burglar who carries fire-arms
proves by that his intention to kill anyone who
disturbs him rather than submit to arrest. In
spite of all that, there will be a sense of uneasi-
ness—in a section of the community at any rate
—at the conduct of the trial of the men. The
provision for the defence was very little else but
farcical. Leading King’s Counsel, Pilcher, was
retained by the Crown to prosecute, and his fee
was almost certainly not a penny less than ItO
guineas. For the defence there appeared for one
prisoner Mr. Moss, a solicitor who is not ex-
actly at the head of his profession, and for the
other a Mr. Abigail, of whom the same can be
said without unfairness. If only for the poor
sporting motive of giving the accused a run for
their lives, that overwhelming handicap of the
highest legal talent on the one side and the—well,
not the highest—on the other should have been
avoided. At one time in N.S.W. the Crown gave
nothing for the defence of a penniless accused ; it
was the present Justice G. B. Simpson who, as
Attorney-General, inaugurated the reform of
allowing 15 guineas to the assigned counsel for
the defence. It is to be hoped the time will come
when the value of the defence will approximate to
that of the prosecution. Fair play is a precious
thing, and the appearance of fair play in criminal
trials almost as precious. That appearance is not
served when there is a repeating rifle on one
side and a pop-gun on the other. And it
is a matter for some doubt as to whether
Justice Rogers did not stress too much the point
that an unsuccessful attempt at an alibi recoiled
on the persons responsible for it. In the conduct
of capital cases, where a man is on trial for his life,
it is well that there should be the most rigorous
care to give him the benefit of everything that
fairplay and a desire for abstract justice can
suggest, and not to use against him the
smallest scruple of matter to which reason-
able objection can be taken. The jury in its
verdict seemed to show a slight uneasiness ot
mind by adding a recommendation to mercy,
which, if the precedents of the N.S.W. Executive
for the past few years are followed, will be
respected.
The Proposed Land Tax.
The particular organ of Proputty in Victoria has
promptly got to work on the question ot a
graduated land tax for N.S.W. Thusfar Men.
Argus is only in the first stage of scorn ana
derision re the absurd dream of a lamentabe
Labor party. Its Sydney correspondent wirea
last week: —
The idea that any Ministry would think of imposing
such additional taxation at the present time is gener j
scouted. In pastoral circles opinion is much tnes •
One leading pastoralisl said that if he were inclined t
vindictive he would suggest that the Labor party
given some of the unstoeked properties now, aiid a
to work out the salvation of these places, while
members of Parliament who proposed the tax imp
allowed the largest slices of all. . . . Several memo
the Opposition when seen to-day spoke emphatica .
the point that the present was no time to coume-
for a moment any idea of placing a further tax 01
struggling landowners.
The tactics of Tory journalism where the welfare
of Fatnian is immediately concerned show
variation as the years roll on. Every hint ot a
tax in this country has been ‘’scouted t° r
old, old Argus reason thst it came at the wro b
time—a time when the struggling landowner
barely able to keep bingey and soul toge >
owing to bad seasons, ruinous losses and o
awful results of democratic legislation. '
Argus always assum s, in these cases,
all the land-values of the State lie in the drougra-
stricken region, and weeps about the poor Jv.
toralist and the distracted farmer. As a m
of fact, fully half the land-values of N.S.V .
The Plaint of the Children.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The school-teachers complain that small children are
worked so hard, and at such early hours, on many farms
particularly in dairying districts, that they arrive at
schoo quite unfit to be taught, and often fall asleep over
their lessons.— News item. F
From forest and field they are calling,
Their wailing is borne on the breeze ;
The sound of their tears, thickly falling,
Comes up like the surge of the seas.
Their little hands, blistered and bleeding,
Are lifted in urgent appeal.
Oh say, shall we pass by unheeding
The wrongs that the little ones feel!
Thro’ white bitter frosts they are roaming,
Where herbage grows rank to the knee ;
With chattering teeth, in the gloaming,
They are milking in misery.
Bear witness, ye limp swollen fingers,
That ache and refuse to be still,
Of wrong that for remedy lingers
A monster our freemen must kill.
With limbs slack and listless through toiling,
And eyes that are drowsy and red—
Ah God, that young lives should be spoiling,
That Mammon and Greed may be fed—
The children in school dull and sleeping—
The babies that limp to the bail—
Are seed that shall ripen to reaping
In Hospital, Mad-house and Jail!
VIC.
F.R.


located in and around Sydney, and almost all the
rest in the reasonably well-watered coast country.
The drought-stricken pastoralist Out West has no
land of his own to be struck by a graduated land
tax, and no big estate to burst up. He is a mere
State tenant. The drought-stricken farmer Out
West is below the exemption limit. It is mostly
the city man or the big land-holder of the coast
country who is involved. And these, it seems,
have been having a bad time, and the city
man’s property is so valueless now that he is
half-inclined to ruin the Labor member by giving
him the great warehouse frontages in York-
street and Pitt-street. By his own showing
this kind of landlord is a hideous failure.
Australia can never be equal to a tax on big
estates as long as he, the struggling Fatman,
retains possession of them. A small Government
levy upon his worthless property would compel
him to part with it, in which case his monoton-
ous ruination would cease. Clearly the only
possible hope of salvation for N.S.W. and the
whole Commonwealth lies in a Bill for the
removal of non-productive land-owners, by the
gentle agency of a demand calculated to crush
them—poor wretches! Then the Labor party
can take over the properties free of charge, as per
suggestion of a leading pastoralist to the Argus
correspondent, and the Labor party will be
ruined ; while the now-ruined Tory, having
escaped from his property, will be growing
rich again at pick-and-shovel work. Every
good Tory knows that the Labor members
are sending Australia to the Devil, conse-
quently their ruin will be the national gain
and the Devil’s loss, and all will yet go well. It
is hard to explain exactly how the land which
ruins all its owners can support a growing
population, but the problem will doubtless be
solved when the Labor party has collapsed under
an insupportable burden of proputty. Mean-
while the landlords are not giving the earth
away. If they were vindictive they would hand
it over to their natural enemies, but generosity
restrains them. Even the landowners who
struggle with the drought on .£30,000,000 or
£40,000,000 worth of land in Sydney and suburbs
are generous, and won’t ruin the Labor party by
forcing on them that disastrous asset. Yet the
drought has been very severe at the corner of
George-street and Martin Place, and the struggle
to keep cattle alive where the Equitable building
stands lias been heartrending.
♦
The Sad Case of John Murray.
The dreadful fate that may overtake a democratic
member who accepts Ministerial office is strikingly
set forth by the present position of John Murray,
Chief Secretary in the Victorian Government.
Murray had, during 18 years’ continuous repre-
sentation of Warrnambool, earned a reputation
for uncompromising liberalism, which made his
name a household word in democratic circles.
He was never beaten in an election, although
always opposed, and Murray and Democracy
were believed to be synonymous terms. Last
year, however, in a misguided moment, he joined
the Irvine Government, and formed one of a
Cabinet which then included M’Kenzie (who has
since been driven out of public life by his Land
Office transactions) and alleged Senator Reid
(who, fortunately for the Government, had re-
signed his portfolio before the Customs ex-
posure). Even with these two Conservative
dead-beats away, the Cabinet is still strongly Tory.
So Murray carries his share of the big strike
responsibility, and supports the Cabinet in all its
frantic and brutal measures of coercion. He had
neither the courage nor the honesty to give up the
unclean salary and swear off the politically un-
clean Bent. One can imagine the slashing attack
the old unbought Murray would have made
on the Government in connection with the
Strike Act, and how the fearless freelance
of former years would have risen to the
occasion. By the irony of fate, Murray, as
Chief Secretary, appended his once-honored
name to all s irts of Government proclamations
’infringing public liberty, and Murray’s violent
Tory proclamations, printed in big, black type, have
been as thick all over Victoria as cloven hoofs in
Sheol. How long Murray can stand being bottled
up in this fashion —and in such an evil-smelling
bottle—without exploding and sending broken
glass in all directions, it is hard to say, but even
when the bottle breaks it won’t be quite the same
old democratic hero who will emerge. The old
Murray —the honest, uncompromising, unbuy-
able freelance of former days will never be again.
4
The Great Irvine Deficit.
One of the most curious results of persistent
newspaper lying is the fact that Victoria’s Bent-
Irvine Government keeps afloat as a Ministry
that is manfully putting the finances straight.
All its illegal acts, all its foolishness, stupidity,
find brutality, its broken promises, its acts of
repudiation and so on, are justified by its press
barrackers on the ground that it is the strong
(smelling) Government which is putting the
finances straight. Raven Shiels declared more
than once that if the finances were not put straight
before the £5,500,000 loan fell due at the end of
this year, the consequences were likely to be
calamitous, aud what Raven Shiels doesn’t
know about calamity (being one himself)
is hardly wort!) knowing. And—herein lies
’ the wild burner of the situation —the Irvine
Government is helplessly sitting down all
this time and letting the finances go to
Sheol. Even after nominally covering a large
part of the deficit by stealing Turner’s sinking
fund, stealing the railway accident and stores
funds, and by postponing liabilities, Treasurer
Shiels has stated frankly that he expects the
deficit at 30th June to be over £300,000. In
reality, as stolen sinking funds aren’t revenue, it
will he enormously more than that—and Shiels
has nothing to suggest. On the same basis it will,
for the ensuing year, be about £600,000, for it is
impossible to steal all the above funds a second
time, and the disguise of this year won’t serve
next year—and about next year also Treasurer
Shiels has nothing to suggest. In reality, and
®ot reckoning the stolen sinking funds as revenue,
the Strong Ministry with the mission to put the
finances straight, is sitting down in helpless expec-
tation of such a huge and disastrous shortage as
Victoria hasn’t seen since the dark days of 1893-94.
The futile Peacock fell, largely by reason of his
deficit; the strong, masterful, helpless political
idiot who took his place is sitting down in hope-
less expectation of a worse deficit —and posing at
the same time, by the aid of the newspapers, as
the mam who is pulling Victoria out of the finan-
cial slough. Barring John See, of N.S. Wales,
f here is no Premier in all Australasia who shows
Such an utter inability to struggle with the present
financial problem as Irvine. The Strong Man
{financially) of these States in recent times lias
peen Neil Lewis, of Tasmania. He was painfully
flow to realise the situation, but when he did
realise it he grasped it with both hands, and in
fhe face of a storm of obloquy, including the ourses
of the press, the “Reform” party, the landlords,
the banks, and the sweaters, and with the
almost certain loss of his billet before him,
he found enough money to make ends meet.
He fell through doing it, but he left a
sufficient revenue to his successor. But Neil
Lewis didn’t howl and curse, and cut down wages
wholesale, and sack men promiscuously, and pro-
voke strikes, and wreck the revenue with strange,
insane doings, and steal the sinking funds, and
stand on the ruins of his country’s broken loco-
motive in the attitude of an intoxicated Samson.
Irvine, who expects to have the biggest short-
age his State has seen for nine years, and who is
just letting the shortage slide, did all these things,
and is accepted as the Strong Man who saved the
public finances; while Lewis, who simply put the
finances straight, is regarded as quite a small,
weak person, and wasn’t even able to keep
his seat, let alone his billet, when the election
struck him.
4
The Federal Capital.
It is a matter of some uncertainty whether the
Commonwealth capital will be selected during this
session of Parliament, but in case the question
should come up, every axe that can possibly be
ground in Sydney is being ground for all it is
worth in the interests of Orange. Yet the vicinity
of Bombala is the site which even Sydney Tele-
graph’s “special commissioner” was forced to
declare the very best offering, and if it was not
for the fact that this locality has no city influence
behind it, it would win on its merits beyond a
doubt. Even at this late hour it is worth while
to recapitulate once again the principal features
which go to make up an ideal site for a Federal
city—the features which, in The Bulletin’s
opinion, constitute the chief claims of the Bombala
site:—
(1) The site selected should be far away from any great
centres of population, partly because there is no sense in
further congesting districts which are already congested;
partly because it is necessary to find a place where a
great extent of land can be acquired cheaply, and that
can’t be done where population is large.
(2) It should have around it a large area of compara-
tively vacant land. Then the Commonwealth can acquire
6000 square miles of country of which it will be the per-
petual ground landlord, so that the increase of land
values caused by the construction of a Federal capital
will belong to the nation—not slop over the narrow limits
of the Federal territory on to private land outside. The
suggestion to restrict the Federal territory to 100 or 200
square miles is mere foolishness.
(3) It should be on elevated country where the new
population that must needs grow up round the new city
will be a hardy race of highlanders of the kind that
Australia requires for its defence—and for many other
purposes.
(4) It should have good scenery, healthy surroundings,
and the best water supply procurable. It isn’t long since
the Snowy River on Monaro, and its affluents, comprised
the only river system that could be said to be actually
running in N.S.W. The rest were crawling, or trickling,
or dry.
(4) The capital itself should be easily defensible, and at
the same time it should, if possible, have a port of its
own on its own territory. Australia can do with another
port, and Monaro and Eastern Riverina want a nearer
sea-outlet than Sydney or Melbourne.
These are good enough reasons why Australia
should regard the Bombala site favorably.
Unfortunately, they are reasons which don’t tend to
the grinding of any commercial axes in Sydney or
Melbourne ; they don’t show how any grist may
be brought to the warehouses of York-street or
Fiinders-lane; and they aren’t calculated to
appeal to any banks or land syndicates, or to any
of the big Sydney or Melbourne papers. They
are merely based on the general interests of
Australia, and the weak point about them, when
they appeal for a fair hearing, is that they don't
start on the assumption that the Herald and the
Argus and the bell-toppered city magnate are
Australia.
«
One Parliament—One Domicile.
President Baker, of the Common wealth Senate,
has done well in re-opening the question as to
whether the Federal Parliament is to be bluffed
out of a portion of its tenant rights in Melbourne
Parliament House proper. Seems that the local
four dozen of Fat Landlords, not to mention
eight dozen Assemblymen, claim a lien upon a
row of seats in the gallery of what was the Council
chamber previous to the Commonwealth era.
Now it is the Senate chamber, and Baker pro-
Eoses to close that gallery against members of the
tate Legislature, who run their own establish-
ment at the Exhibition building without inter-
ference from Federal representatives. Baker
offered to squeeze the local legislators into the
gangways of the Senate room if they particularly
wanted to gaze upon theopening of a Federal Parlia-
ment. The 48 Landlords held an indignation meet-
ing to protest against this arrangement, and a
number of these arrogant interlopers threatened
to force their fat, important carcases into the
gallery. If the Federal Parliament doesn’t want
to look ridiculous in the future it will pass a Bill
of Rights re its ownership of the premises
where Commonwealth laws are made. Victoria
feels quite as warmly Australian as the other States
on the question of protecting the business manage-
ment of the Nation’s Parliament from this aggres-
sion of provincial pettifoggers. They have been
granted a right of free admission to the library at
Commonwealth House merely because they claimed
it for auld acquaintance sake, and Premier
Barton hadn’t the dignity to say No. They—
i.e., the inflated 48 Rich Landlords in particular
—would put the Commonwealth legislators in the
position of lodgers on sufferance, rather than
tenants. The State Parliament crowd went back
to its former home last session by permit of
Barton, and the result of this favor was another
fatman grievance. President Senator Baker
locked up the rooms set apart for him, and gave
orders that they were not to be used during his
absence by Wrixon, the President of the Council.
Wrixon has a duplicate set of rooms for himself
at the State Parliament House, where the Council
ought to have been sitting, but he wanted to
jingle the keys of both places, and when the inflated
fatmen found their precious president shut out
from his old quarters, “they felt it very keenly,”
says the Argus. Further outbreaks of paltry un-
pleasantness are bound to happen unless the
Commonwealth Government puts an end, once
and for all, to the present absurd situation. There
are duplicate sets of legislative tenements in Mel-
bourne, one for the Commonwealth and another
for the local Parliament. Let Premier Barton
cut all connection between the two establishments
and desire the rampageous fatmen to consider
themselves dead as regards the building where
they obstructed business in the yeara before
Federation was.
4
The Protectionist Propaganda.
N.S.W. National Protection Union has adopted
an effective method of teaching the newly enfran-
chised women some plain home truths about
fiscalism. The Union holds political afternoons
—with tea and cake, of course ; no gathering of
women would be in order without tea and cake—
to which representatives of all women organisa*
tions are invited. The guests are taken to some
factory where a native industry is growing up to
a hat mill, a fruit-preserving place, a meal factory
or a woollen mill. They see there the process ot
manufacture, and are informed, by clear statistics,
on these points :
1. The value of the total product of all local factories
in this particular line.
2. The amount of wages earned locally by the workers
in producing that value.
3. The value of all imports in that line from abroad.
4. The amount of wages which might be earned locally
if the imports were shut out and local manufactures sub-
stituted.
Thus the economics of Protection are illustrated,
the good quality of local productions shown, and
the damage done by the importing disease ex-
posed. It is a good scheme, and, though it is not
protected by any patent, The Bulletin has no
hesitation in disclosing it to the public. There is
no fear of the Freetrade party attempting imita-
tion. If that unpatriotic organisation took a
gathering around to show the consequences of its
policy, it would be able to point to nothing but a
fat importer here and there —nearly always of
obviously alien appearance. And there would be
no cogency in asking women to vote Freetrade for
the sake of having a few more like him.
Launceston (Tas.) Examiner says it is “an en-
couraging sign of progress” that the Van
Diemen’s Land Co. has decided to cut up some of
its land into farms and offer them on seven-years
lease. An encouraging sign of progressJ The
V.D.L. Co. got its land for almost nothing. It
has blocked settlement over a huge area of the
North-West for several generations by stodgily
refusing to sell or lease, to make roads, or let in
civilisation in any way. It has wrecked the
revenue by preventing the settlement of a tax-
paying population on the land. It has paid a
mere fraction of the land tax it should have paid,
its property, by some means, being always shame-
fully under-valued. And now it has. decided to
let Tasmanians come in and improve its property
for the benefit of the English shareholders, the
conditions being that just about as soon as they
have contrived to reclaim the V.D.L. Co.’s wil-
derness, they are liable to have their rent increased
to breaking point or to be thrown out altogether.
And Tasmania is, apparently, going to stand all
this. In fact this infamy is even called a sign of
progress.
During the debate on the Strike Bill, Labor
member Elmslie quoted some really sweet items
from the Railway Commissioners’ report for the
December quarter of 1902, to show that, .while
the swindling Reform Government was trying to
crush the workers under the plea of necessary
economy, it was granting concessions worth
many thousands to influential merchants. This
choice report was laid before the House in an
unobtrusive, casual way, and at its foot was a
note, in red ink, to the effect that it was not to be
printed. No wonder! Among the “conces-
sions ” to the poor struggling workers was one to
C. H. Straker, caterer at the Beech Forest line
opening; another to a reputedly profitable theatri-
cal company ; another, of £2O, to Gordon and
Gotch to “facilitate the despatch of newspapers.”
M‘Kay and Sons, Ballarat, got a rebate of £132
on machinery freight, “ to encourage traffic.
The N.Z. Loan and Mercantile got a rebate of
£173 on wool ; Joshua Bros, another rebate on
500 tons of molasses “to secure traffic”;
M’CullocH Carrying Co. a rebate of £1609 on
wool. Also the lamented ex-minister M’Kenzie
got an “all lines” pass for his secretary for £5
instead of the £75 the ordinary person has to pay.
It was a long document and showed clearly enough
why the railways don’t pay; and all the while it
was read Bent sat there and fatuously babbled
of the men’s “privileges” and “ concessions.”
Insanity was the defence his assigned counsel
set up in the case of David Hanna, tried for the
murder of his wife in Paddington, Sydney. Pre-
vious injury to the brain and aggravation of that
injury by drink were sufficiently proved. He
was, however, sentenced to death because in-
sanity, in “the legal sense,” was not established.
It is acrying shame that the question of “insanity
in the legal sense ” is not again brought under
scientific review. As things are, a man may be
medically insane while legally sane. Hanna’s
case was on all fours with that of William
Young, grandson of Brigham Young, the
Mormon prophet. Both pleaded guilty, and
medical insanity was the defence. Judge Her-
rick, of New York Supreme Court, sentenced
Young to life imprisonment in Sing Sing a few
months ago, but ordered that a commission
should examine him, and if insanity were estab-
lished by the commission the prisoner should
receive the benefit of that decision. Judge
Herrick’s words in passing sentence are weighty:
Personally, I feel that the distinction between medical
insanity so-called and legal insanity is so finely drawn
that I would dread to sentence a man to death when the
medical authorities agree that he is unbalanced. It is
better, it seems to me, for the demonstration of justice,
that a man should not be sent to death about whose
mental condition there is any serious question.
»
“Nil” writes: —
Medical practitioners are required to satisfy a com-
petent board of examiners that they (the practitioners)
are capable of doing their work in a sufficiently skilful
manner. Pilots and shipmasters in like manner. Dentists
also. There are many other workers who are not allowed
to offer their work for sale without sufficient guarantee of
their capacity to deal honestly with the public. The
public may think it could sufficiently judge of this for it-
self. Perhaps it could, but the law anticipates its judg-
ment and settles the point for it. Nearly all experts have
to pass some examination standard of which the public is
not permitted to be the judge of first instance. But the
same public is the only judge, at present, of the fitness
cf a man to represent it in Parliament. I contend that
intending candidates for Parliamentary billets should at
least have to pass an examination in the usual subjects
of primary education and such other knowledge of
common and general interest as would be required of a
policeman or a minor civil servant in some other depart-
ment. Why should the “ highest court in the land ” be,
open without restriction to any dangerous ignoramus
who can wheedle sufficient other ignorami out of a vote?
The Bulletin begs to give in its adhesion to this
idea. The qualification of owning property and
the qualification of being some noodle’s eldest
noodle have been tried and failed. The simple
qualification of knowing something might now be
tried.
4
In Brisbane, the other day, half-a-dozen sailors,
refusing to obey ship’s orders in port, were hauled
before the court, and gaoled for two days to
ponder over the benefits of the law, as generally
applied to sailor-men. Handed over to the
skipper at the end of the time, they again refused
to obey orders. Consequently, more court and
more gaol—this time four days. Of the six, four
were distinctly foreign, one English, and one
Yank. The spokesman of the crew (name like
something or other spelt backwards) alleged that
their disobedience was caused through bad and
insufficient food on the voyage to Australia ; also,
through the first mate’s violence. Asked why
they did not summon the mate, they informed
the Benoh that they hadn’t the price of the
process (2s. 6d.) among them, no wages having
been forthcoming since their arrival. Then a
neatly barbered P.M. proceeded to dilate upon
the excellence of British justice in regard to
penniless litigants, who, he explained, could
always obtain redress on the nod. All' the same,
the little bunch of harassed mariners were quickly
hustled out of sight, to chew the bitter cud of
regret at not having that necessary half-crown, as
a mediator between themselves and British justice
with its tail swollen. The law moves justice, and
2s. 6d. is necessary to move the law, and the
sailor-man, whose assets are a broken jack-knife
and a limited amount of string—well, he moves
into gaol.
♦
William M'Millan, the political proftf girth who,
when he was Treasurer of N.S.W. (fortunately he
was only Treasurer once), had a deficit every
year, and ran up the loan expenditure to nearly
£5,000,000 in a single year, is back in Australia
talking severely about the extravagance of Aus-
tralian Governments. Also, according to the
report, he had the ghastly effrontery to say this:
The socialistic and restrictive legislation is un-
doicbtedly the explanation of the diminishing emigration
to Australia.
Is it really ? Will M‘Millan look at the last ten
years’ figures for the Commonwealth —the last ten
years, that is, recorded in Coghlan’s latest issue
of the “ Seven Colonies ” :
1892-1896 .. Loss by excess of departures 622
1897-1901 .. Gain by excess of arrivals 1116
There isn’t very much to show either way, for
since M’Millan’s incompetent friends brought
about the infamous bank smash there has been
practically no immigration to Australia. Still, the
last few years, when Old Age Pensions, Factories
Acts, Arbitration Acts, and such-like horrors
have been on deck, show up much better than
the period before such things began. Even with
the awful drought to contend' with, the period of
socialistic legislation is able to bear up remarkably
well in the comparison.
+
A person named J. E. Bishop in an inflatea letter
to the press about Industrial Arbitration •
The issues upon which the Court has to pronounce
judgment are not such as the majority of witnesses who
appear before it are competent to give evidence upon.
They are subjects of philosophical inquiry. In other
times and places they have engaged the attention of the
acutest intellects the human race has produced, but in
Sydney their settlement is made to depend on the in-
terested opinions of Tom, Dick, and Harry, called away
for a moment from their benches, or maybe their
trenches, and against their opinions the conclusions of
Adam Smith, John Stuart Mild, Herbert Spencer, and
even of Mr. Wise himself, are as dust in the balance.
And if the same J. E. Bishop is violently hit in
the eye as he ambles down King-street with a
gamp in one hand and a letter to the editor in the
other, he hales his assailant before a court where
Tom, Dick, and Harry give evidence, and then a
magistrate comes to a decision on a question
which occupied the attention of a great part of
the Old and New Testaments; and the views of
the Gospel, which bids us forgive those who bitterly
stoush us, and the theories of the most eminent
criminologists are not even dust in the balance —■
they aren’t mentioned at all, and have no weight
as against the opinion of the Corporation laborer
and the small boy with the bare feet who were
present at the time. And if it were otherwise
J. E. Bishop would probably be very much
aggrieved. It is a curious mental attitude which
persists that a Court of Justice can settle satis-
factorily any sort of row except an Industrial one.
Memo for the Labor members and public servants
of N.S.W. : Everything that has happened to the
public servants of Victoria is almost certain to
happen in a worse form to those of N.S.W. if the
foreign loan madness isn’t stopped. Unless
N.S.W. sets itself deliberately to learn how to do
without loans, the stoppage of borrowed mpney
will come upon the State suddenly when its credit
gives out, and will find it unprepared. Then in
the immediate and appalling slump there will be
a frantic cutting down of everything to save the
State from insolvency. Politicians will divide
into two parties only—those who represent the
minority whose wages are to be cut down, and
those who represent the majority which proposes
to save itself by cutting the other fellow down.
Neither Old Age Pension laws, nor Arbitration
laws, nor any other laws will save the workers
when that slump comes. A panic-stricken Par-
liament will repeal them off-hand. And the
Workers, by lending their countenance to the mad
loan policy which is preparing the way for that
slump, are helping to bring along all these things.
By way of a warning : The Sydney Star —the
See Government’s organ—in its issue of 23rd
May, demanded two things—severe retrenchment
apd a coalition of the Carruthers and See
Earties. In other words, it proposed that the
,abor party should be reduced to the status of a
small and helpless Opposition ; that the Tories of
all softs should join together and pose as the
party of economy, and hold up Labor as the party
of extravagance and the cause of all the trouble.
And then the coalition would begin to economise
—at the other fellow’s expense.
*
Some words of wisdom from “L.W.”:—
Imagine what a lovely time sundry persons will have
if, when the inevitable Labor Governments of Victoria
and N.S.W. come along, they adopt Tory tactics. The
Tory press dearly loves precedent, and the last few weeks
of Australian history have supplied unlimited precedent
for any action which the most revolutionary Government
could conceive. Imagine Premier M'Gowen forcing a
Bill through both Houses to authorise the Miller’s Point
push to break into private residences, to blast, burn and
destroy the works of Herbert Spencer, Mill, and
other sturdy individualist writers. Consider the indigna-
tion of Major Randal Carey, “ Mr. James,” of the S.M.
Herald, and the retired grocer paper if they were made
liable to twelve months’ common “ jug ” because six of
■ them held a friendly discussion oh the bfest way to
popularise “ private enterprise.” It is a dangerous thing
for capitalists to set up precedents about the abolition of
strikes, for the big grocer, draper and all the rest are al-
ways going on strike. When men strike because they want
higher wages which the employers refuse, it simply means
that they decline to sell their commodity (labor) at the old
price. When M’Millan and Robert Reid, and the rest
of the softgoods push refuse, for any reason, to sell their
commodity (clothing, &c.) at the old price, as they oftendo,
then they go on strike just as any other workman does.
In the railway case the “strike” arose because the men
refused to sell their commodity (skilled labor) at a new
price and on new conditions fixed by the buyers’'agent.
Bent. If the buyers fixed a new reduced price for
Robert Reid’s goods, and then, when he refused to sell
at that figure, and went on strike, passed a law qiaking
him liable to 12 months’ gaol for not selling at the buyers’
terms, and 12 months’gaol if he made any disparaging
remarks about any of the people concerned in passing
the law, or their wives, children, or dogs, then
he would only be getting the measure his
class tried to serve out to others. When the
landlord refuses to sell his commodity (the use of land
or buildings) at a new reduced figure fixed by the tenant,
then he is on strike in exactly the same way as the
engine-drivers, and a Labor Government will have every
precedent for giving him beans—likewise Sheol. Irvine
has made a lot of wonderful precedents. Didn’t the
small legal boy know it was loaded ?


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
FINANCIAL
FOR YEAR ENDED
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
STATEMENT
3181 DECEMBER, 1902.
- " *265.597,775
£19,915,124
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. .. _ _
SURPLUS .
J INCREASE IN SURPLUS
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by
fc ■
*73,855,783
£4,889,175
*15,418,151
£020,434
£6,555,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, eto.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman ; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR MB MT n
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M. D. ’
» ®' CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager For Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary. ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL Auditor
S. W O’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Patriotism Exalteth a Nation.
•*• i .
SwSaS»”faisiJ o toS' t K2 , , , s*SJ *• t ™s iti..i.o.i.ouii.ti»K.s.w.
wlwFe—hi Parliament- and P»nnL P i e '. Parochialism and selfishness are rampant every-
of equal mer e t h e a I " s I te ?- d ‘. °f AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURED GOODS
The verv men who cn the o deit ' P referr « d - they are only taken if CHEAPER,
the extent of keepfn- out the t ? nJi:lv » S . TKALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS ! "-even to
for the Foreign-mad in nvif 9h Hatters—are those who, from pure prejudice, call
spirit that prevails in America Australian production. This is not the
the earth. There nothing is c-nnrf n "( hlc h has made it the greatest country on the face of
to become a Nation The e -^ 8 ‘I 1 . 18 * Murkan,” and so it must be here if we are
branches of their canning PaCkln B «C o‘’ Limited - have lately added to the other
two and fouroancetins Then Jo manufacture of Potted Ham and other Meats, in
EQUAL TO, AND THE PRIOF P^ cka Res are neatly got up, the contents are AT LEAST
patriotic enough to gi ve them ™ AN ,', THE IMPORTED ARTICLE. Be
They may b, hill ftp,, l ; *" REALLY
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Sydney, Shows for coming week.
Lyceum "The Face at the Window."
Criterion ' “ Facing the Music."
Royal “San Toy.”
Tivoli... .. Rickards’Co.
Palace “ Oh! What a Night! "
Belmore Park. ....... Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
PRINCESS’S I.‘.‘? n S han i fe -t” r ( . S^ da '!; ) - v
)“ As You Like It (Monday).
Her Majesty’s " Secret Service.’’
Thratre Royal .. “ The Price of Peace.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Mark Hambourg Concerts.
“ A Little Ray of Sunshine,” revived at
Sydney Criterion, is another of the comedies in
which the comedy consists of Frank Thornton
being mistaken for a great many other people.
The only substantial difference between it and
the rest is that it has a faint streak of “local
color.” Gerard Lord Markham, whom Thornton
is when he isn’t Wilson, the pastrycook’s man, or
Dobbs, the money-lender, or Dunn, the trainer,
or Green, the tutor, is an hereditary idiot who
pawned his coronet and dropped the proceeds and
his abbey down an Australian wild-cat mine.
Thereupon Thornton Lord Markham, to get the
icoronet out of pawn, came to Australia to look for
a better mine than theother one; and after wander-
ing through the Great Desert from Circular Quay
as far as The Bulletin office, napping every
outcrop as he went, he found something bigger
than Mt. Morgan. Then, having dug millions
out of it, unknown to anybody, he went back like
the rest of them, to be “a little ray of sunshine.’*
The most strikingly original thing in the piece is
that the rapacious money-lender who is on the
premises when he gets back isn’t a Jew; this is
probably because somebody whose front name is
Mark wrote part of the play. Thornton, as
before-mentioned, is the ray, and also most of the
rest of the piece. Alex. Bradley, as one of
several young people who want to get mar-
ried but are badly in need of a large amount
of ray, Dobbs, the money-lender, having
refused to take cheques, is rather better than
fair, and Carden Wilson (suffering from the same
disease) is rather worse; while Joseph Wilson is
an ineffective diplomatist, who ought to be able
to lie with much more fluency and grace than he
does. Fred Cambourne makes a small servant’s
part conspicuous. Miss Phoebe Mercer as Alex.
Bradley’s aunt does some good work; and the
othbr ladies, who are there mainly because they
seem to be necessary in love-making, do it with-
out any obvious effort, and with so much success
that, in the end, Thornton is the only person who
isn’t threatened with early matrimony. The
“Ray ” will be followed by “Facing the M«*io,”
the last event of the Thornton season.
** * *
, “ Oh ! What a Night ! ” produced at Syd-
ney Palace on Saturday, proved to be a slight
variant of “A Night Out”—associated with
Paulton’s name here and adapted from a French
farce, to which “The Magistrate” also owes a
debt. It is an hilarious joke in three acts and
two husbands, of pronouncedly French flavor.
Nevertheless it conveys a great moral lesson, and
if the W.C.T.U. knew its business it would bring
convoys of young wives and husbands nightly to
learn that the punishment of contemplated sin is
that you don’t get farther than contemplation
and acquire a black eye and miss a night’s
rest. There are, as usual, two husbands and
two wives. Pinglet has been married 20 years,
and is profoundly tired of Mrs. Pinglet. Paillard
has been married five years, and Mrs. Paillard is
discontented because the honeymooning ardor has
waned. And Pinglet, elderly Romeo as he is,
persuades Mrs. Paillard that he is a volcano, a
naming furnace of passion, and she goes with him
to “a quiet little supper” one night. And, poor
fellow, the elderly Romeo is soon brought to a
sense of his years; a cigar in the quiet little
supper-room makes him unromantically ill, and
Mrs. Paillard has to apply a hot-water bottle
to the flaming volcano—which is not the
usual etiquette for volcanoes. Then everybody
turns up—according to the best traditions of
farce—including Mr. Paillard and the police, and
there is much fighting and bedragglement, and
only by the hardest of lying is disaster averted.
The obvious moral is that taking somebody else’s
wife out to supper is not the game it is cracked up
to be.
The Giddens Co., on the whole, presents
the farce in a bright and gleeful fashion, but most
of the individual members fall into their new roles
with obvious difficulty. Miss Munro is ill-suited
to a broad comedy old-woman part; Miss Kings-
ton has nothing to do; Mr. Desmond and Mr.
Hanray do not show nearly as well as in “Are
You a Mason ? ” On the other hand Mr. Giddens
confirms the first impression that he is a
thoroughly capable comedian. Without his
unctuous fun “ Oh, What a Night ” would make
a very poor night indeed. Miss Mollison, too,
shows that she has a capacity for acting which
her ornamentative part in the “Mason” piece did
not suggest. For a few minutes in the
second act of this piece—when first entering
the supper room—she shows as much art as this
class of piece allows. There is a falling-off after-
wards, but evidently Miss Mollison can do very
well when she pleases and has the chance. In a
maid part Miss Molly Pearson plays brightly and
pleasingly ; and Mr. Herbert Jarman’s Mathieu
is distinctly good. And the cigar—the cigar at
one franc 50 that the elderly Romeo ventures on
to mark his character as a gay old dog and a
volcano that smokes as well as flames—it acts
splendidly.
** * •
At Sydney Royal the “Circus Girl” has
been enjoying a very solid measure of undeserved
prosperity. The really original item in the
“Girl ” —the item which distinguishes it from
all the rest of the “ Girl ” series, with their six
fashion-plates and their love-sick British aris-
tocracy—is the sudden flight of the baronet
towards Sirius, the dog-star, through taking
refuge in the circus cannon from the eyes
of his lawful and jealous wife. No British
baronet ever rose so rapidly and suddenly before.
That part, of the play would be considerably en-
hanced if it were the real man who was shot out
of the cannon instead of a dummy soaring along
on invisible wire. This is the last week of the
‘Girl’’ and the cannon and the dvnamited
baronet. “ dan Toy ” is to be revived on Saturday.
mm * m
That huge gruesomeness, “ The Face at
the Window,” still progresses at Sydney Lyceum.
The Bulletin’s verdict upon it is that, regarded
as a Horror, it about establishes an Australian
record. There may be a scarcity of art, and a
lack of coherence, and very little sense, and none
too muoh of some other things, but as a Horror it
can be recommended; and as even a Horror is
something in the way of an experience, the public
ought to go and see it. The best play and the
biggest Horror are alike worth going to see. One
woman that the writer knows went to see the
“Face” over a week ago, and she says she can
hear the three shrieks which precede the murder
even now. . Especially she hears an extra-big
shriek at night. No such three shrieks ever
happened before in this paper’s experience.
.** * *
The Fitzgeralds’ circus, at Belmore Park,
Sydney, is now really two circuses, Brother Dan
having brought his collection of man, woman and
beast over from Maoriland to add to the previous
show of Brother Tom. The combination has
started a complete new programme, the vastness
whereof may be set down as beyond description,
and its excellence is beyond all question. The
item on which the management most prides itself,
however, is “Saving the Colors” which purports
to show how a horse gathered up his wounded
master, and brought him and the Flag away in
triumph. With an unfortunate desire to be up
to date the advt. describes this as “ an episode of
the Boer w ar,” and then tells in five verses how
two Britishers fought against 20 “ dusky heathen ”
armed with spears. The Boers weren’t dusky
heathen, and didn’t use spears. Next time this
item will probably be described as “an episode of
the Vic. engine-drivers’strike.”
** * w
At Sydney Tivoli, the Boissetts show their
pantomimic and acrobatic skill in a new sketch,
“The Brioklayers,” which gives good scope for
their very pretty knack of “ knock-about ”
comedy. Miss Fanny Powers and Edward Forde
also contribute humorous turns.
«* « «
Under tolerable conditions, Mark Ham-
bourg started his Melbourne season, at the Town
Hall, last Saturday. The inhospitable building
being well filled, the atmosphere was sufficiently
tepid to admit of a sane person accepting the con-
cert as an entertainment, although it seemed a
cold place for the little lots of school-girls—poor
giggling victims of musical crazery !—who lined
up to the occasion in white frocks and
pink noses. The awfullest feature of a
Town Hall concert in winter-time is the
dismal unfurnished platform, with a background
of barren organ “gallery” and dingy organ.
Something should be done to modify the draughty
ugliness of the audience’s outlook—for instance, a
huge crimson screen, about 100 ft. x 40ft. Even
six town councillors garbed in their warm robes of
majesty and mounted on tall stools around a
burnished baked-potato can—even that would
give an air of comfort to the platform.
• • • •
Mark Hambourg, the man, is a great
pianist. The gifted, youthful Mark who banged
and clawed his box of music eight years ago
was a splendid joke : the young fellow of two
years later had begun to have a soul above
fireworks ; and now, apparently, Hambourg is
all soul. A brilliant performer on the key-
board, he is much more than a human
pianola. He has the genius as well as
the hands. He delights the small section of
musical public that is not influenced by considera-
tions as to how he does it. But the finger
worshippers, of course, are always in a large
majority at a pianist’s display. They crane their
necks to watch the artist. They judge him as
bad actors in the audience judge a* good actor on
the stage—by his mastery of technicalities. And
as they are female amateurs in most cases, they
naturally adore a man expert—because he doesn’t
excite their jealousy. And Mark is a good show-
man. _ No earthly pianist could be quite such
a genius as the weird little Russian gentleman
100/cs. He plays Svengali quite as effectively
ru. Beethoven sonata, or a study by
Chopin. Boris Hambourg, the younger brother
is an interesting ’cellist, with a touch of dis-
tinctiveness in his work. Lemmone is a flautist
m a thousand, and Miss Batchelor, the crude
young vocalist of the co., has a sweet, fresh voice.
The fourth Hambourg Concert happens to-night
(Thursday), and there are more to follow, perhaps.
*m * #
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the last night of
“My Lady Molly ”is to-morrow (Friday). When
that tuneful opera goes the people concerned in it
go likewise, and Melbourne will never see quite
the same crowd again. Carrie Moore, for one
will be on a foreign shore next time the William-
son Opera Co. returns to Melbourne. The lively
Carrie was to have had a farewell matinee on
Wednesday afternoon, which was yesterday, and
by way of reminding a forgetful public of how
much experience has been crowded into her young
career thus far, the matinee programme in-
cluded a repetition of the duet that Carrie
Moore sang with Ivy Scott some seven or
eight years ago, when her age was 13i and
her cleverness didn’t strike herself as forcibly as
it does now. At that time she had an appropriate
smile: her vivacity was unconscious, and she
hadn’t invented a patent, broad, reversible accent.
Present scribe is inclined to mourn the loss of the
debutante of 13£. In a verdant corner of his
memory he has planted a slab of granite so grey,
and Little Carrie lies under the stone. But this
is a digression. As regards “My Lady Molly,”
it is only due to Harold Thorley to say that his
principal song, in which he states his case to
Squire Bathurst, is a very spirited piece of
vocalism, and any person who has not heard it by
to-morrow (Friday) will miss a pleasure.
• * • •
On Saturday the Neill-Frawley co., from
America, makes its first Australian appearance at
Her Majesty’s aforesaid. Report speaks well of
this visiting co., with Daniel Frawley and Miss
Van Buren in the chief parts. Also, Gillette’s
military drama, “Secret Service,” which intro-
duces them to Melbourne, is a rather famous play
of its kind. Moreover, Hugh Ward, Plimmer,
and Miss Susie Vaughan have been added to the
attraction.
** * *
“ Midsummer Night’s Dream ” finishes a
seven weeks’ run at Melb. Princess’s on Friday
night, and on Saturday the performance of “On
Change ” will come to pass with Courtneidge in
the part he played nine years ago, and members
of the Shakspeare company in parts they haven’t
played before and are not going to play again.
“On Change ” is announced as an interesting
novelty for one consecutive night only. On the
Monday comes “ As You Like It,” the splendor
whereof is expected to give it pretty much the
appearance of a new play by an author long
defunct.
»* * *
“The Price of Peace” continues to be
the death of Styan, at Melb. Royal. Some nights
the limited House of Commons includes a few
greybeards and bald heads, but, as a rule, it looks
like a boarding-house for young men, and the
Tory Jingos who sit on Premier Baker’s side are
even younger than the Democratic party at the
back of Albert Norman, which doesn’t seem quite
true to politics. There’s plenty of room for
improvement in the production of this exacting
melodrama. The British Legislature ought to be
more deeply moved when the Premier drops dead,
and the members who hurry across the Terrace
when division-bell rings should endeavor to
throw their chests out. This remark also
applies to the gloomy citizens who hover in
the background of the Skating Carnival, what time
Bland Holt, M.P., is fortifying his Nonconformist
conscience with whisky. Bland’s impersonation
of a Wesleyan comic-relief character is not espe-
cially humorous, nor does he get valuable assist-
ance from Miss Pollock, as his awful lawful wife,
but their seven children in tartan-plaid frocks are
a complete success. When the happy father
wipes the nose of his No. 4 daughter with the hem
of her outer garment, and discloses frills on her
white unmentionables, the audience mostly
shrieks for joy. _ There is always something ex-
quisitely droll in an unexpected revelation of
wearing apparel which has been washed and
ironed. Many a melodrama has been saved from
failure by the spectacle of a shirt hanging over a
clothes-horse.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House sundry new
“turns” came to hand last week, in exchange for
those that went away, and the programme gained
about as much as it lost. One of the recent
arrivals is Rodda Perry, whom Phil Newbury
unearthed of yore, and another is Fred Rivenhall,
a promising young man in an old, unpromising
line of business. RudinofF, in his sixth week,
makes the same picture on a sooty plate that he
made at first, and is pretty much the same Rudi-
noff in all other particulars; nevertheless, his
familiar arts and graces remain effective. ’ Hill
and Sylvainy will repeat their astounding per-
formance on the tall bicycle for one more week.
Perhaps it would be more astounding if it were
not so neatly accomplished.
** * *
- At Prahran (Melb.) Town Hall, where the
toney amateur “ Runaway Girls ” enjoyed their
transient kick a year ago, an interesting novelty
is promised for Thursday, June 4th, and two
following nights. Charles Rose and his wife are
going to produce “ The Prude’s Progress,” a 3-act
comedy by Jerome K. Jerome and somebody else.
This, “with the assistance of well-known
amateurs” and the additional attraction of a
supper scheme, the magic word Supper looming
large on the prospectus. Charles Rose, who has
good stage experience, is little known locally
except as a cultured concert tenor, addicted to an
eye-glass. IMrs. Rose, playing the Prude, will
make her first appearance before a Melbourne
audience, and her friends expect great things.
** * *
• f Ge °rff e Musgrove’s disrespectful treatment
of the Melbourne press, a while ago, was perhaps
responsible for some inane sneers at “ The Mid-
summer Night’s Dream ” production. The critic
of one small weekly was much hurt by the dis-
covery that the “Dream” is a spectacular comedv
with a lot of music and fairy effects in it, and not
a poetic drama. ’ Still harping on the delusion
that it ought to be a drama, the disappointed
funny •° rn WaX6d P rofoundl y satirical and awfully
When properly played, Shakspeare is a decidedly ponu-
lar playwright, and, of course, the only proper vvaAo'
play Shakspeare is to leave him out as much as possHile
and to introduce the maximum of extraneous matter. ’
It happens that the “ Dream ” is the one Shak-
en a « r6 t? ay on r h doesn,t need an y pruning. Not
more than 20 lines were omitted in the present
matter 6 ’ ffa? th<3 addltl ° n of extraneous
matter (for the most part poetic and
FhroS dldn - t ?\ tend t th « Performance beyond
three hours, including three intervals. Produced
with on y just enough stage-business to make the
fi&.-ffSBSs. *• Dr ““” *°
The same bounding idiot who shrieked for
Shakspeare s play as it was written, and didn't
know iie was getting it, threw new light on th!
imperfections of Williamson s co. Some extrac t
rays of illumination:— extracted
The Williamson comic opera co laoka * .
modernity. Otherwise they would not bAnV ° h of
in the mildewed “ Paul Jones.” Hugh Wart is
over with modernity. His caricatures, brilliant in'lhon 1 *
selves, are meant for the modern musical ;
great art-form inseparably associated with the nami*
George Ldwardes. Frank Lear is a promisin„ w? *
man who possesses something substantial Tn rK £
modernity. Carrie Moore is more inclined n n r ,a J -’ of
It was a pleasure to see George Lauri back in hU
For the first half of the Ist let he kept td thi nh form '
splendidly, but thenceforward was inclined ny?' 6 '
-and modernise George cannot. He lack^modernn“
at e the W c e T k ore e ador!‘ 4Uaff H ° Win * h ™l of modify
Ihe great art-form of modern musical comedv
never received a more shocking testimonial thaS
** * *
At the Adelaide Royal, the Musgrove
opera co. has dropped Lempriere Pringle and
Madame Slapoffski and taken in Josephine Stan-
ton and Cissie Neil; also it has descended from
the semi-grand-opera of “ The Fortune-Teller ”E
the nonsense of “A Chinese Honeymoon” The
piece has even less coherent plot than “ San Tov ”
(hitherto about low-water mark in that respect)
Edward Lauri and May Beatty carry it through
to some extent, by sheer hard work. The Tivoli
is closed. uu
It s said that David Syme offered £lOO to
any driver who would take a train to Ballarat on
the second day of the strike, and failed.
The Ballarat Courier, which took the side
of the men in the railway strike with such courage
and vigor, is beginning to have its posters put
alongside those of the Argus and Age outside
city news-shops in Melbourne. In a few months
time, it is believed, the Courier will be going
strong as the third morning paper in the City of
Magnificence. Apropos of the bump the Courier
ought to give the Argus and the AGK-during
the strike, the two papers were in palpable com-
bination. The alleged feud between the Argus
and Age is very much like that between the R C
priest and the Protestant parson in a little coun-
try township when they agree to “kick up a
shindy to attract the people to their respective
places of business. Two pugs often get up bogus
fights on the same principle.
Announced that the Royal Geographical
Society is appealing to the British Government
for “a grant of £40,000 to succor the intrepid band
of explorers now wintering in the polar seas.”
Some day a really strong Ministry will rise to the
occasion by rescuing the men and prosecuting the
crowd that dropped them down in such a parlous
position without having the means of getting them
out again. Presumably if the British Govern-
ment doesn’t fork out £40,000 “the intrepid band
of explorers” can perish. Who’ll be hanged for
tlieir murder, if they do?
Sigismund Franklin, who was sued by
Rose Adelaide Nathan, described as a stout
woman in a very large hat, for £5OOO damages
for alleged assault, like his brother, Charles
Franklin, is in Kronheimers’, the Melbourne
tobacco merchants. The Kronheimer Brothers
are Hamburgers ; Julius resides in Germany and
Joseph in Melbourne. They are very wealthy,
one brand of American tobacco, of which the
Kronheimers have the sole Victorian agency,
yielding £25,000 profit a year. Charles Franklin,
who is the managing partner, is a well-preserved
and gorgeously-dressed bachelor, nearing 70. A
lot of quaint and partially dressed evidence was
given in the case, which ended in an emphatic
knock-out for the stout woman in the large hat.
What a depressing fraud is the cable man !
A few weeks ago he sent us out a flaming cable-
gram about how a base Dutchman spoke insult-
ingly of the Queen in a railway carriage, and a
Queenslander rose there and then and licked him
in a large, vigorous, loyal fashion. Now the full
story comes along by mail and it appears:
(1) The insulter wasn’t a Dutchman but a Scotch sailor.
(2.) The other man wasn’t a Queenslander ; he was a
ship’s fireman from Yorkshire who had been in Queens-
land.
(3) The row, according to one version, was only a
sailor and a fireman squabbling over some disagreement
they had previously had with another fireman, though
another version said that the Queen was mentioned.
(4) The Scotchman (the cableman's Dutchman) wasn’t
licked ; it was practically a drawn battle.
(5) The Yorkshire fireman was fined ss.
Governor Rawson departed early in the
week per H.M.S. Royal Arthur to inquire
into some alleged grievances at Norfolk Island.
Acting Chief Justice Stephen is Lieut.-
Governor, while his Ex. is out of N.S.W.
Now Norfolk Island is a dependency of
N.S.W., and it is a point for lawyers whether,
when Rawson lands there, he is or is not back in
N.S.W. The Acting C.J. won’t be able to
determine exactly when Sir Harry reaches the
Island, and therefore there may be two vice-
regal representatives in N.S.W. at once. Beyond
exercising the legal talent the point doesn’t count
for much. It doesn’t really matter much whether
N.S.W. has one governor, or none, or sixteen.
N.S.W. Freetrade papers last week were
forced by the brutal See Government out into
the cold air of free competition, without the
charitable blanket of a subsidy in the shape
of the free railway carriage which previous
Governments had given them; and you
could hear their teeth chattering as far as
Pyrmont. Freetrade was the last thing in the
world the Freetrade papers wanted for themselves.
They had grown fat and rich with the aid of a
huge Government bounty, and now that that has
been withdrawn, and they are beginning to get
practical experience of the cool, fresh air of un-
aided private enterprise, their opinions on the
fiscal subject are probably a little more confused
than usual ; but their opinions of John See are
simply unprintable. And, after all, they, have
only to pay now one quarter parcel rates on their
newspapers.


r
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
deluding Compound lie”, and every description of Light Bailw.y Material.
CENTRAL MINING &. TR AM WAY A PPLIA NCES
«- "gSZSi&iSXS'Ii.i&Z '
Branches— Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
To empty old abandoned shafts, or to cope with
inrushes of water at a minimum cost, may be effected by
the use of the Vertical Plunger Sinking Pumps, manufac.
tured by The A. S. Cameron Steam Pump Works Of New
York ; and represented by Messrs. W. & 3. Lempriere, Of
Melbourne, who hold stocks of these and various other
sizes and styles of steam or air pumps. These pumps are
distinct from any other make of so-called “Cameron ’
Pump. They work automatically, and have no dead
centre, neither have they springs nor outside valve gear
to become deranged. They occupy less space in a shaft
than any other Sinking Pump of same capacity.*
• • * *
* Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
• • « •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W,
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the Orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOjin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
• • * •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
• • * ■ „*
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne;
is prepared to purchase or develop, with option of
purchase “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address : “ Option, 1 '
Melbourne •
• » » *
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and enquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, 7 Central Chambers, Queen-st., Brisbane.*
• • » *
Compound gauge glasses (Schott and Genossenj
as used by the Victorian Railways and the Melbourne
Trams are worth a trial. De Deer, Silberberg and Co.,
Bourke-street, Melbourne, the newly formed partnership
to which we referred last week, are sole agents for •
Australasia.*
• * * •
Insurance Agents’ News, August, 1902, writes :
“ We congratulate the Directors of the Colonial Mutual
upon the nighly gratifying results of last year’s operation,
especially as these results have been achieved during a
period of exceptional depression and difficulty.”*
• * » •
The North Gippsland Proprietary Company,
Grant, have been engaged for many months past driving
a long tunnel in very hard country. The tunnel is now
gome 2500 ft/, in length. The last 1500 feet has been
driven with the aid of the Gardner Electric Rock Drill
which has given the manager every satisfaction only one
drill has been in use and it is still working in as good-
condition as when first started. About 35 feet of drilling
is done by it every shift, so the installation of the Electric
Drill must be regarded as in every way successful, The
drill requires less than two horse power to drive, it as
against at least 10 horse power required for an air-driven
drill doing the same work, besides dispensing with com-
pressor, receivers and air pipes. The fact that this
Electric Drill has been working so satisfactorily in one of
the most inaccessible parts of Victoria is sufficient proof
that the plant is not liable to derangement. The sole
agents for the Gardner Electric Drill are the Austral Otis
Engineering Company, South Melbourne, who will be
pleased to answer all inquiries.*
INSISr ON GETTIN
75W
K \ jwawf^licedA^nflo,
, GHEENA\ANGO,CASHMERL
. V C.y i MADRAS vie- «
rocei? and 3ro re Kee p c r?, Lve r vui ef e.
SCHWEPPES DRY GINCER ALE
A record established by no other Mineral Water Company in the World.
SCHWEPPES Mineral
Waters have held the
Royal Warrant contin-
uously since 1834.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The report of the N.S.W. sectio of the
Australian Natives’ Association sets forth, among other
things, that general expenses for the year were £6OO. It
seems a good deal of money to spend on meeting together
to celebrate the fact that we were born in our own
country. Have the promoters yet considered the advisa-
bility of starting a French Natives’Association in Paris,
or a Society of Amalgamated Germans in Berlin ; or is it
only the Australian who is so surprised at being born in
his own land that he has to gather together and specially
record the circumstance ?
• * * •
The Australian Mutual Provident Society :
Written off or
Provided Added
Total against De- to
Income Claims Expenses preciation Funds
1893 £1,941,950 £934,916 £170,214 £160,682 £626.138
1894 1,970,490 1,083,452 164,563 241,821 480,654
1895 2,009,844 1,091,448 169,537 21,487 727,372
1896 2,029 674 1,225,123 180,750 57,874 665,927
1897 2,080,566 1,118,915 179,215 31,397 751,039
1898 2,152,177 1,223,261 197,977 31,468 699,471
1899 2,243,644 1,104,551 223,942 19,461 895,690
1900 2,364,216 1,178,107 213,268 17,737 955,104
1901 2,456,389 1,389,051 208,749 23,920 834,669
1902 2,509,729 1,355,073 218,394 21,663 914,599
The assurance funds now total £18,779,113.
The expense rate was £8 14s. ; the mean for the
past 10 years is £8 16s. lid., so that last year’s experience
is 28. lid. better than the average. The course, year by
year, has been :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1893.. £8 15 4 per cent. 1898 .. £9 4 0 per cent.
1894 .. 8 7 0 „ „ 1899 .. 9 19 8 „ „
1895 .. 8 8 8 „ „ 1900 .. 9 0 5 „ ~
1896 .. 8 18 1 „ „ 1901 .. 8 10 0 „ „
1897 .. 8 1 2 3 „ „ 1902 .. 8 14 0 „ „
In this computation the amounts spent on improvements
to premises are regarded as amounts written off and not
as expenses. The rate of interest suffers further, but
not, this year, to any serious extent; moreover, the
figures ought to be read in conjunction with the varying
proportion of different securities held. Naturally, on
account of the prevailing uncertain conditions, attention
has been directed more than usual to State and munici-
pal securities, and this is partly responsible for the
reduced earnings. The record for 10 years has been :
Interest Realised on Average Funds.
1893 .. £5 13 6 per cent. 1898 .. £4 14 10 per cent.
1894 .. 6 11 10 „ 1899 .. 4 11 10
1895 .. 6 6 2 „ 1900 ..4 9 7 „
1896 .. 5 0 5 ~ 1901 .. 4 9 6
1897 .. 4 17 0 „ 1902 ..492 „
The average holdings at Dec., 1901, and Dec., 1902,
respectively, are shown hereunder ;
1901. 1902. Increase.
State eecurities ..£3,008,187 £3,220,108 £211,921
Municipal securities .. 935,781 1,168,398 232,617
Mortgages .. .. 8,533,924 8,9)8,177 464,253
Loans on policies .. 3,992,420 4,095,740 103,320
Decrease.
Foreclosed properties 585,797 668,245 27,552
Office furniture .. 380,665 371.865 8,800
Cash, &c. . .. 860,258 832,754 27,504
£18,297,032 £19,245,287
Thus there nas been an increase of £444,538 in public
securities held in the 12 months, or at the rate of 11J per
cent., while the increase in loans on mortgage has been at
the rate of only 5| per cent. This movement, though
not always so marked as this, has been characteristic of
the society’s history for the past 10 years. The amount
charged to the year’s accounts for the possible deprecia-
tion of securities is £lO,Bll, bringing up this reserve to
£256,040. It is a moderately large sum ; but, unfortu-
nately, Australian securities have a habit of indulg-
ing in more than moderately large depreciations. A
small community with a large loan policy will
inevitably have its booms; and the community
that has its booms will have its slumps. The
time will probably come, nioveover, when the limit
of the borrowing policy will be reached, and then a
condition of slump will go on prevailing. It is against
that general slump that the A.M.P. and others must pro-
vide ; and it is doubtful whether even now the A.M.P. is
providing fast enough. This is about the only thing that
is doubtful in connection with the society.
The amount of business which the A.M.P. is
sble to “ write ” is a pretty good indication of the true
strength of a State at any particular time. There are
other considerations, no doubt—still it is a pretty fair
guide. The following statement gives some information
in that connection : —-
Average
Policies Total amount of
No. of Policies added amount of new
Dec., 1902 during.year Insurances Policies
N.S.W 47,796 2,632 £14,868,585 £l7O
Vic 51,482 2,914 13,351,934 184
Maoriland .. 29,544 1,348 8,015,240 227
S. Aus 16,662 351 4,278,866 152
W. Aus 6,498 566 2,163,168 283
Tas 7,437 267 2,097,893 262
London.. .. 1,699 181 777,786 390
Policies Reduced
during year
Q’land .. .. 15,697 751 5,210,117
8. Australia, next to Queensland, is the disappointment
of the group ; its proportion of new members is below the
Commonwealth’s average, and the average amount in-
sured is also the smallest, notwithstanding that the State
is supposed to have been enjoying a more than usually
joyous time, selling chaff at high rates to its hungry
neighbors.
* * * *
Years ago the Vic. Govt, advanced £233,673
of loan money to Melbourne Board of Works. The Board
is to hand it back shortly, and the Irvine-Bent Govern-
ment, instead of repaying it to the public creditor, has
decided to use it in an indirect sort of way to pay interest
with.
• • * *
After the scare howl of the colored-agony
press, to the effect that Australia is in imminent danger
of having its over-sea mail services completely disor-
ganised if the Australian Government’s expressed policy
of allowing the mails to be carried only by companies
employing white crews is persisted in, it looks bad for
them to now have to print the information that there has
been quite a rush of inquiries from shipping cos. anxious
to carry the mails with white crews solely, as per contract.
On the termination of the existing contract it seems
probable that, instead of chaos supervening, Australia
will get better service than it ever had before. The
White Star and the P. and O. are building big vessels for
•ervice via the Cape, and the new boats are to have a
guaranteed speed which will enable them to break the
ordinary Suez record.
• • • •
The Bank of New South Wales
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Reserves.
serves.
£ £ £ £
8ept.,1897 1,216,564
Mar., 1898 .. 88,129 9 p.c. =87,750 379 1,216,943
Sept., 1898 .. 88,042 9 „ „ 87,750 292 1,217,235
Mar., 1899 .. 88,738 9 „ „ 87,750 988 1,218,223
Sept., 1899 .. 89,544 9 „ ~ 87,750 1,794 1,220,017
Mar., 1900 .. 99,859 9 „ „ 90,000 9,859 1,229,876
NewSharePremiumsAdded to Reserves 46,404 1,276,280
Sept., 1900 .. 100,463 10 „ ~100,000 463 1,276,743
Mar., 1901 .. 100,153 10 „ ~100,000 153 1,276,896
Sept., 1901 .. 104,647 10 „ ~100,000 4,647 1,281,543
Mar., 1902 .. 115,507 10 „ ~100,000 15,507 1,297,050
Sept., 1902 .. 118,229 10 „ ~100,000 18.229 1,315,279
Mar., 1903 .. 115,793 10 „ ~100,000 15,793 1,331,072
For a country which has been parched by a fiercer
drought than usual, and which was, moreover, alleged to
have been previously ruined by Socialistic legislation,
this is a marvellously fine record. At the commencement
bf the half-year the shareholders’ funds amounted to
£3,315,279 (capital t 2,000,000, and reserves £1,315,279);
on this the profits were at the rate of £6 19s. 9d. per
cent, per annum. This compares with the record of some
previous half-years as follows :
Sept., 1900.. £6 3 8 p-c. Mar., 1902.. £7 0 10 p.c.
Mar., 1901.. 6 2 3 „ Sept., 1902.. 7 3 5,,
Sept., 1901.. 6 7 9 „ Mar., 1903.. 6 19 9 „
The figures for the half-year to Sept., 1902, were better
than those for any previous term from March, 1893, down
to that time ; so the return for the past half-year is a
long way above the average for the past ten years. Com-
paring the position at March 31 of this year with that of
the like date of 1902 we get these results :
Half-year to Half-year to Inpre . ges
March, 1902. March, 1903. increases -
Profit.. .. £115,507 £115,793 £286
Notes in Cir-
culation .. 976,820 993,808 16,988
Bills and other
Advances .. 20,328,788 20,4bJ,-?4 110,696
Due by other
Banks (ex-
clusive of
Notes) .. 137,469 284,887 147,418
* Decreases.
Deposits .. 22,441,068 22,336,870 104,198
Cash, Bullion,
and Notes of
Other Banks 5,440,246 5,327,392 112,854
Public Securi-
ties.. .. 1,791,352 1,737,023 64,329
Bills payable,
etc 2,797,644 2,791,440 6,204
Short - Call
Money in
London .. 330,000 100,000 230,000
The liquid assets (exclusive of the bank’s money out at'
short call in London), and the amounts due by other
hanks apart from notes, represent £2B 2s. per cent, of the
total liabilities to the public. Of these liquid assets no
less than about 80 per cent, consists of coin and bullion.
• • • •
This season South Australia’s largest vineyard
made 440,000 gallons of wine, which is equal to more than
half of N.S. Wales’ total production last year. The yield
for the whole State will nearly, but not quite, touch 2J
million gallons ; it has increased threefold within 10
years.
* • • •
City and Suburban Permanent Building
and Investment Society (Brisbane) presents its year’s
acoounts in its usual plain, unvarnished way :
Dividends Added to Total
Profits. and Written Re- Re-
Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., 1896 .. 4076 3 p.c. = 2953 7,928
Dec., 1897 .. 4110 3 ~ „ 2797 366 947 8,875
Dec., 1898 .. 4681 3£ „ „ 3125 102 1,454 10,329
Feb., 1900 .. 5914 4 ~ ~ 4007 211 1,696 12,025
Feb., 1901 .. 4937 4 ~ ~ 3221 566 1,160 13,185
Feb., 1902 .. 4778 4 ~ ~ 3221 1,417 140 13,325
Feb., 1903.. 4502 4 „ ~ 3219 1,192 91 13,416
The steady fall in profits during the past four years is
mainly traceable to a steady fall in interest receipts. In the
year to Oct., 1901, they amounted to £9576 ; 1902, £9406;
1903, £9OlB. Outside this, the society has very little income;
it is conspicuous for holding off the risky land-jobbing
business. If, however, on this account it makes no large
losses, it also makes no large profits. On a subscribers’
capital of £76,591 at the end of the year, and reserves of
£13,416, and deposits of £73,701 it had a revenue of £9288.
On the mean of its deposits it paid, apparently, £3 2s. per
cent. ; while on the mean of the funds and deposits for
the year the gross return was £5 13s, fid. ; and, taking
these two figures together, it indicates very careful
management that even a small 4 per cent, dividend is
possible. Yet, though the profit is so small, and though
it has £15,197 on fixed deposit with its bankers, the
society has apparently concluded that it pays better to
borrow from outside rather than use its own funds to pay
for the new offices which were lately opened. These
premises, included as an asset for £7OOO, now carry a
debt of £4OOO ; but the present intention is understood
to be to get that burden off by five annual instalments.
* • • *
Movements in the metal markets have been
puzzling silver-lead miners again. Lead is weakening ;
silver is unexpectedly firming. The fact with regard
to lead is that, even when the price was jumping half-
crowns lately, the statistics were dgad against any rapid
or substantial improvement, and the relapse is therefore
natural. As to silver, the explanation is that the ’Murkan
offerings in Europe have been smaller than usual lately,
not, apparently, because of reduced output, but because
silver is wanted for the new Philippine coinage ; and that
special demand can’t last long. On the basis of its last
half-year’s output (2,798,0200 z. silver and 33,522 tons
lead) a movement of Id. in silver means to the B.H. Prop.
£ll 658 in six months, and a ss. move in lead means
£B3BO. To the B.H. South Id. on six months’ silver
means about £1250, and ss. on lead about £2520.
* * * *
The recent history of B.H. Block 10 :
Ore Value
treated. , Profits. Divi-
Tons. Silver. Lead. dends.
Mar 1898..53,866 16'870z. 19 73p.c. £20,546 £25,000
Sept., 1898..64,212 15 77 „ 19 85,, 40,209 20,000
Mar., 1899..68,216 16’54 „ 17-86,, 50,723 20,000
Sept., 1899. .77,185 16-35,, 17-39,, 57,481 30,000
Mar., 1900.-69,183 1&14 „ 16T6 „ 46,752 45,000
Sept., 1900.. 72,246 14-56,, 14-23,, 51,747 *5-000
Mar., 1901. .77,651 14-58 ~ 15-32,, 22,811 45,000
Loss.
Sept., 1901.. 81,852 14-83,, 14-47,, 129 5,000
Profit.
Mar., 1902.. 42,847 14‘7 „ 15-31 ~ 5,386 Nil
Sent 1902 42,825 16‘44 ~ 17’89 „ 720 Nil
Mar.', 1903..50,279 14-01,, 16T3 „ 1,509 Nil
Nothing has apparently been charged this last half-year
for depreciation, while new plant and even the sinking
of a new shaft and the improvement of the old plant
have been charged to capital account. There should
either be a regular charge for the extinction of the capital
cost of plant, &c., or plant, &c., should be paid for out
of ordinary revenue. If the former were done in this
case, the nominal profit set out above would probably dis-
appear ; if the latter were done it would certainly dis-
appear. The co. has a surplus of liquid assets over cur-
rent liabilities amounting to £54,356, of which £38,513 is
Vic. Government stock.
The average price realised by Block 10 for silver
last half-year wag Is. 10 7-16 d far the lowest on
record ; and for lead £ll Bs. Id. ; latter is 2s. 4d. better
than in previous half, and 3s. 7d. better than in the
half-year ending March, 1902. Present prices are about
2s. 0 l-16d. for silver, and £l2 for lead, though lead
appears, to be now on the down-grade again. Block 10
does not smelt its own product ; it sells its concentrates.
Last half-year it produced 8583 tons concentrates, con-
taining 281,0490 z. silver and 5497 tons lead. Assuming
95 per cent, of this to be paid for, a movement of ljd.
in silver, such as has taken place, means £1670 a half-
year to the co. on this output, while the movement of 12s.
in lead means £323o—a total of £4900. On the average
prices of the past week or two, it thus appears that
Block 10 can make a profit—a nominal profit, anyway—
of £6400 a half-year. Also, on the basis of last half-year’s
work, it seems that it can pay its way, though without
writing off anything for depreciation or spending any-
thing on new plant, with silver at Is. 10$d., and lead at
£ll 3s. sd.
• * • •
The production of a concentrate fit for zino-
smelting is at last becoming a fair-sized industry at
Broken Hill. Besides the German Co., which is working
on purchased tailings, the Sulphide Corporation is now
handling nearly 1000 tons a week of its own “ middle
product,” and is just about to double its plant. The
principle is magnetic separation. The worst trouble i s
that it doesn’t act well if the stuff is at all damp (and
having already been treated by water it generally is
damp); while if it is dry a poisonous dust is raised which
it costs a good deal to control even partly.
* • • •
The most important announcement in B.H.
Block 14’s half-yearly report is that only 48,843 of the
100,000 preference shares offered at 6s. have been taken
up, and in consequence the co. will have to exercise its
full calling power. Though it is over two years since
Block 14 paid a div., shareholders were probably foolish
not to exercise their option, as in the two years before
that the divs. totalled £50,000, notwithstanding that the
plant was unable to get out more than about a third of
the metal. Six months ago, when work was suspended,
cu;-'-.rt liabilities exceeded liquid assets by £9910, so
that it .7 ’1 take two-thirds of the gross proceeds of the
new issue of shares to get rid of the old dead-horse.
• • * •
“Bob. R.”: The much boomed reef at Junee
Reefs (N.S.W.) panned out l£oz. to the ton ; £124 worth
of gold was secured by two miners for three days’ work.
But as many days have passed, and nothing further has
been heard of the “fabulous” find, writer is inclined to
think that his prediction of the reef being merely a
“ pocket ” isn’t far out.
• • • •
“ E.S.” : There is a diamond crank prospecting
in the Angledool (N.S.W.) district, whose kit consists of
a bag, hung from his neck, and a magnifying glass. He
works on his knees, doing the “picking” with his
fingers ; and when he strikes anything harder than caked
earth, he licks it, and if it shows a bright surface, he
examines it carefully through the glass. “If I can see
daylight through it,” he says, “ I know it’s a diamond or
some other valuable gem ; but if I can’t see through it,
then I know it’s only road metal. Yer can’t beat the
magnifyin’ glass for sortin’ out min’rals.”
* • • •
A correspondent at Arltunga: “ Far more men
here than there are jobs. The hard-ups are accepting
starvation rates. A Miners’ Association has been formed ;
its first work is to try and stop others from rushing
here.”
• • • •
J. Bull was induced to swallow four Arltunga
kittens, all little ones, but with large, impressive names.
The Arltunga Concessions, Ltd., had a nominal capital of
£lOOO ; the same as the Exploration Co. and the Proprie-
tary Co.; while the Central Australian Exploration Co.
was down for £lO,OOO. Probably all of them have
enough coin to buy two picks and a shovel with.
• • • •
“A.8.T.” writes:—“S. Australia has had
some queer copper prospectors. A wombat, it is re-
corded, tossed up the first copper known in the State.
The other day a half-starved prospector up Lake Torrens
way was looking vacantly at an ant-hill for want of any-
thing more cheerful to look at, when he saw something
green being pushed up out of a hole by one of the insect
excavators. As a consequence, he has now 200 tons of 35
p.c. copper carbonate ore waiting the cart. He calls his
mine ‘ Ante-up.’ ”
* * • •
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. (Tas.),
the Commonwealth’s most profitable copper mine, is a
good deal less profitable than it was before the copper
market slumped so badly. Results for the past four
years are :
Or* treated
tons Profit Dividends
Sept., 1899 .. .. 150,431 £187,074 18£ p.c. = £75,625
Mar., 1900 .. .. 169,741 141.252 30 „ 123,750
Sept., 1900 .. .. 167,221 117,443 33J „ 137,500
Mar,, 1901 .. .. 181,671 126,058 13i „ 65,000
Sept., 1901 .. .. 175,103 128,575 15 „ 61,875
Mar., 1902 .. .. 183,392 53,049 21§ „ 89,375
Sept., 1902 .. .. 183,676 45,348 8J „ 34,375
Mar., 1903 .. .. 169,417 48,665 6f „ 27,500
The ore treated includes that purchased ; formerly as
much as 32,000 tons of this class was handled in a half-
year, as against 229 tons past half-year. From first to
last (operations began in June, 1896), 1,701,724 tons of
stuff has been handled, including 1,466,258 tons ore from
Mt. Lyell, 74,625 tons metal-bearing fluxes from the
South and Royal Tharsis, and 160,841 tons purchased
ores. Average assay values are :
Average Value of Mt. Lyell Orb.
Copper. Silver. Gold.
Half-year to Mar., 1903 .. 2'204 p.c. 2 - 05 oz. 0-070 OZ.
Since commencement ... 2’85 ~ 2’67 „ 0-096 ~
Average Value of Mt. Lyell Fluxes.
Copper. Silver. Gold.
Half-year to Mar., 1903 .. 1’63 p.c. o’lBoz. 0 - 0230 z.
Since commencement .. 1"65 ~ 0’21,, 0"22 ~
The hest feature is the steady reduction in costs, mainly
through the developments in pyritic smelting. Recent
cost of producing blister copper per ton of ore has been :
Mar., 1901 ..£1 3 0J Sept., 1902 ..£0 19 M
Sept., 1901 .. 1 1 4| Mar., 1903 .. 018 64
Mar., 1902 .. 1 1 3J
Of the present costs approximately 4s. 3Jd. goes in
mining, 12s. 9fd. in smelting, and Is. sd. in converting.
Revenue is charged in the past half-year with £18,319 for
depreciation of plant; the total amount written off the
reduction plant is £117,528, and it still professes to be
worth £217,119. Nothing whatever has been written off
the mine. The co. has reserves amounting to £492,779 ;
but, in view of the fact that the mine is thus taken in at
cost (£508,911), these reserves are purely nominal; for
that matter, practically all mining co.s’ reserves are.
Liquid assets exceed current liahilities by £251,718 ; the
assets include £96,644 in cash and public securities. The
most disturbing factor in the co.’s life is the uncertainty
of the copper market. On the basis of the half-year’s
output, a movement of 2d. per oz. in silver means only
£2300, while a movement of £2 per ton in copper means
£5700, and there has actually been a movement of £2O in
copper within the last few years. The average price fi r
copper during the term was £55 per ton ; the quantity
of metallic copper won was 2873 tons. The net profit was
thus at the rate of £l6 19s. per ton of copper. Assuming
the silver and gold to go wholly to the payment of costs,
everything above £3B Is. per ton for copper was profit.
i • » •
Knox, M.H.R., haa brought off the Lyell
amalgamation after a struggle. Lyell 00. (Melbourne)
now consists of 275,000 shares of £3 ; North Lyell
(London), of 600,000 of £l, and also carries £200,000 6 per
cent, debentures. The agreement now made provides
for a new co., to be registered in Melbourne in 1,300,00 b
shares, 600,000 to go to each lot of shareholders, anti
100,000 to be reserved. Before throwing into the pool,
the Lyell Co.—whose position at March 31 is dealt with in
another par.—draws out £68,750 cash (ss. a share). What
North Lyell is going to do with its debenture-holders vs
not disclosed—that was the snag on which the negotia-
tions stuck for some weeks. The co, has already,
however, a substantial amount set aside against this
liability. The debentures are redeetr.«ole now at 110, or
on June 30, 1908, at 105. Independent of the North
Lyell’s debentures, the old co’s. had a capital of
£1,425,000 ; the new will have a capital, with all shares
issued, of £1,300,000.
• • • •
“Veritas” : Re “ Tides’ ’’comments on Danvers
Power’s estimates of ore at Chillagoe. Power was sent
up to determine the ore then in sight. If more has been
won than was then in sight, it simply proves that the
mine has been better developed than it was. As to
metal contents, that is regulated hv the sorting.
* » •' *
The fact that Bendigo mines for 16 weeks from
January Ist to April 25th returned dividends exceeding
calls by £38,086, on a return of 58,4650z5., indicates that
there is still a vigorous kick in Victoria’s boss goldfield.
Payable gold is being got at 3500 ft, and it is the
intention to go down still nearer Hades. Bendigo isn’t
worked out by any means, and there is a possibility of
another Bendigo if the northern extension on the Moon
line of reef is properly exploited.
• » • * 'C
Instead of, as asked, putting up reduotioh
works at the moderately new and immoderately remote
Phillips River copper, gold, and silver field, the
Westralian Govt, is trying a new experiment. It hag
appointed a sampler and buyer (Provis, late of S. A.), and
will buy and stack ore assaying over £6 a ton, in expecta-
tion of later on starting works ; if the field doesn’t turn
out as expected, then the stock will be shipped east-;
It’s a risky business ; S.A. tried something of the same
sort at Port Augusta, and dropped about £20,000.
Associated Northern (W.A.) has appointed
George Roberts to succeed the late Capt. Rodda as
manager. Roberts, who is Australian-trained and a
bard grafter, has made metallurgy his specialty ; he Was
under that great chemist, Kohler, at the Broken Hill
Prop., and went over to the West with Sutheiland and'
others now in the front rank. Lately, he has been
metallurgist at the Great Boulder. The appointment of
a metallurgical specialist is taken to mean that tl e co.
intends pushing on with the provision of a plant for the
Duke lease.
(Continued on page SO.)


sDAVID JONES AND COMPANY,
High=Class
Hatters
Gent’s* Black, High-Grade Fur,
Semi-Stiff, Felt Hats.
105.'6d., 12s. 6d„ 14s. 6d., 15s. 6d.
George and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
RUGBY in the Prehistoric Age (as is the case to-dav) had its drawbacks, and in the excitement of the
game many a good man lost ms head. But the interest'and beauty of AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY goes on
enlightening the world —always becoming more and more Simple, Economical and Perfect. The best known
Cameras of to-day are—Harrington’s Orackshot Outfit, 13s 6d ; Meteor, 15s ; Windsor, 21s ; Brilliant, 25s ;
Timor, 42s ; The Favorite, £5 5s ; Columbia, £4 15s ; Elite, £8 ; Challenge, £8 ; Goerz and Voigtlander Focal
Plane Hand Cameras, and other High-Grade Instruments from £lO to £5O. Also all Styles Premo and Kodak
Cameras. New Illustrated Catalogue (over 300 pages) sent Post Free.'
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD., photographic MERCHANTS,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY, and 93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
“A.W.H.”: Had a hair-raising experi-
ence on one of Bent’s trains last week. Travelling
to Essendon (Vic.), we stopped abruptly between
Ascot Vale and Newmarket. Alighted and made
my way to engine, and found it in charge of four
men, assisted by two guards and two policemen.
SOMETHING TANGIBLE.
MOTHER: “Vow, Tommy , I’m taking away the candle, hut you musn't be afraid. Remember,
Divine Providence is with you all the time.”
T OMMY: “ Well, mummy, you can have Divine Providence if you’ll only leave me the candle."
It seems the four blacklegs bad turned a handle
by accident and the train had stopped. Now,
they couldn’t remember which handle they had
turned, and a fierce discussion of eight men was
going on as to the best thing to do next. On the
advice of the youngest guard, they turned all the
handles they could find, with the result that a
great deal of boiling water came out. finally,
the train lingered back to Ascot Yale for advice,
and a loco, foreman got us started again 45
minutes late.
o-at T 3 . •
S.M. Herald says : One of the require-
ments of a President of the Legislative Council
is that he shall be able to dispense hospitality.
Will Australian “ society ever think of a pro-
minent man without calculating how much food
it can get out of him without paying for it ?
The queer case of an aggrieved lydy and a
Toorak gentleman's brother came on for hearing
at Melbourne Civil Court last week. The lydy
plaintiff, who recently buried a husband 54 years
older than herself, stated that she first met the
susceptible Toorakian one evening when she was
standing at a street corner, and their relations
became something more than friendly. But after
he had paid her “a couple of thousand ” there
was an estrangement between them—it is alleged
that on one occasion an elderly nude merchant
had to pay, or at least offered, £l5OO to get back
his clothes, and even if the story isn’t quite true it
suggests friction between the parties. So she went
to his house to win back his lost affection, and was
ordered off the premises by his brother. That
was where her claim for damages came in. The
brother, she said, seized her by the throat and
gave her a pain in the windpipe worth =65000
compensation. Stripped of its incidental refer-
ences to blackmail and other foreign matter, the
case was merely a question of injury to the plain-
tiff’s throat. A heartless jury found for defendant,
and the Judge entered up the verdict with costs
against the lydy. Under the circumstances, the
jury should have added a rider to their verdict,
advising all elderly merchants of the Toorak
persuasion to steer clear of the girl who lingers at
street corners after dark.
* * • •
The women of Outtrim (Vic.), where the
strikes come from, are a warlike lot. Can use
their fists “as well as mere men.” At present
they have the whip-hand in the township, the
police preferring to look the other way when a
ladies’ demonstration is going on. The women
have a club, and the supreme desire of the social
reunions held there daily is to tar and feather a
blackleg. So far, the ladies have not had much
luck, but a good many of the blacklegs have put
up good hundred-yard records in gaining the
kindly shelter of the police barracks with the
Outtrim dames at their heels. Distress is pretty
sharply felt, for 10s. a week strike-pay doesn’t go
far in the way of luxuries. Most of the children
—and the children are as numerous as rabbits —
are in rags and barefoot. The strikers’ homes are
' on Mount Misery, an appropriately-named hill
back of the township, and all day the women
line the slopes of the hill watching for a chance
at the non-unionists, while the men nurse the
babies inside the bare, unpainted little cottages.
Sydney Sabbath Tipster, the Mary Jane
paper which runs a telephone column, held a
conversation with a member of the Rocks push in
a recent issue, and, in answer to the latter’s
objection to the Sultan of Johore being treated
differently from any other undesirable immigrant,
the ’phone man spoke severely thus :
It is really a compliment to Australia that we have a
man like the Sultan of Johore visiting us.
And this dusky person, if he owed his position to
his own exertions and ability, would probably be
humping coal in a loin cloth for tuppence a day.
Mary Jane will probably next crawl on the front
0 f her best Sunday blouse to-ask the coffee-tinted
person for his exalted opinion of the Restriction
Act, and hang on to the platitudes which issue
f rom hj 8 bejewelled teeth with all possible humility
and breathlessness.
F. Cro-
son writes:
Got my
usual month-
ly crop, the
other day, at
Melbourne’s
lady barber’s.
’Tis run by
a young
w o m a n,
three girls
and a small
boy. Young
woman is
mostly en-
gaged in
touching up
lace collars
and other
lingerie, and
in keeping
order. The
three “ bar-
bers” are
trim and very
desirable dam-
sels, with soft,
whitehandsand
a delicate aroma
floating around.
They handle
razor and soi ssors
deftly, and they
don’t breathe cigarette-odors into your wool or urge
you to back a particular “moral” for next Grand
National, but they have their drawbacks. One doesn’t
want to go there when in a hurry; there is too much
“ Where’s my towel, Nell ? ” ‘‘ Ask Ethel to bring me in
some hot water.” “Hand me those brushes, please.”
Also there is too much frivolling. There was a youth
half-way through his shave in a chair when I arrived, and
he was still being scraped when I left. He was an ele-
gant young man with apparently all eternity on his
hands and he wanted to kill some of it —and two girls
helped him. One endeavored to remove his incipient
moustache while the other stood around and frivolled.
They addressed him as Orval, and were quite friendly.
It is an ideal place for an impressionable youth to get
friendly with a girl—she is so adjacent. Still, they were
desirable girls.
• • « •
The gratitude of woman (Age report) :
On Monday afternoon, while a Brunswick car was pro-
ceeding to Moreland, a middle-aged woman alighted
from the car on Sydney-road, leaving a bag behind her
in the car. Conductor Rice took charge of the bag.
Subsequently Mrs. Frith, of Stewart-street, Brunswick,
called and.claimed her bag, which contained twelve sove-
reigns, a half-crown and a cheque for £560 ; but instead
of rewarding the finder she sharply reprimanded the
tramway conductors for not attending to their business,
and said they ought to have run after her down the
street.
And the only satisfaction the man has got is that
the press describes her as a “ middle-aged woman. ”
Such a desperately mean person should have been
called “elderly.”
* * • •
“Why men don’t go to church”; also,
why women do. An Australian girl committed
Buicide with the usual awful strychnine
recently because, on account of her returning
home late on previous occasions, her mother
would not allow her to attend divine service.
What a lot of pathos lies in a little incident like
that sometimes ! To half the weary, harassed and
pleasureless household drudges the periodical
outing to attend “ service,” the incidental meeting
with the fair, weak-chested and weak-eyed Percy
or Bertie, and his whispered inanities and gallan-
tries on the way home, supply the one break in
an otherwise endless vista of dish-washings,
scrubbings and stocking-darnings. To take away
that one pleasure from an existence of sordid
monotony is to steal from such lives such little
happiness as they will ever know. Small wonder
that this same walk home from service has been
responsible for more “ falls ” than a dozen other
feminine dissipations put together. It is the one
time when the pot-and-dish-bound serf feels her-
self almost free.
* • • •
There was an interesting little Salvarmy
case at the Sydney Criminal Court the other dav.
A man named Hilaire—a “trade-sergeant” in
Booth’s great absentee mendicant institution—
was charged with bigamy. He had married in
Sydney in 1874 and was divorced, and then re-
married the same lady in 1889. Then he was
attracted by a Salvarmy lass, and married
her bigamously in M.L. with Salvarmy cere-
monies. She had had five illegitimate children
before the marriage, but told her husband-to-be of
one only. She had also been guilty of “ impro-
prieties ” with him before marriage. The court
took the sensible view that a lady of that easy-
going character didn’t suffer any grave damage
from the bigamy, and let the offender down
lightly. Still, Hilaire had to . pay pretty dearly
for his desire for the buffoonery of a Salvarmy
wedding—which could have been his only motive
for marrying bigamously a woman with whom
marriage was so entirely superfluous.
• • * *
The Sydney aldermen have refused to
re-christen George, Castlereagh, York and
Clarence streets as Wentworth, Dailey, Lang
and Kendall streets. Governor Macquarie named
the streets in 1810. George-street was originally
High-street; Castlereagh-street was Camden-
street; York-street and Clarence-street were
known as Soldier’s Row and Soldier's Middle
Row. Elizabeth-street was known as Mulgrave-
street.
* • * *
Melb. Age has evidently a very poor
opinion of local charitable institutions. Thus
(19/5/’03): “The victim’s injury was attended to
at the Melbourne Hospital, which is not of a
serious nature.”
A CHEERFUL ANSWER.
“I wish you wouldn’t talk while Tm shaving;
you’ve made me cut my chin."
“ Don’t worry, dear, you’ve got two more."
The Royal Commission appointed tc
investigate the Mount Kembla mine disaster has
presented its report, which finds that Mr. Rogers
manager of the mine, was guilty of a grave
irregularity in allowing lax and ineffective exam-
inations, and that the Government Inspectors
were blameworthy for allowing this laxity
There is no suggestion for the punishment of
anyone : and, in the cold dry light of reason, there
does not seem to be justice in making any person
a scape-goat. Though nearly 100 lives were
lost by negligence, the blame is shared by so
many people that the punishment of any
one would be an injurious discrimination,
and the punishment of all is quite impos-
sible. Between the miners, who were con-
fident and careless, the “deputies” who slurred
over the examinations which they should have
made carefully, the manager who let things slide,
and the Govt, who winked at all the omissions’
it is difficult to pick out one man who is more
responsible than two dozen others, though it
might be held that the final authority is as
likely a subject as any. If 26 inspectors, from A
to Z, all fail in their duty, there is at least the
possibility that if A had rigorously inspected B to
Z then they might have learned to more carefully
inspect each other. Anyhow, there would be
more hope for the future if it were established as
a principle that the proprietors of coal-pits had
to bear the full financial and moral responsibility
for accidents.
* * * •
The Daily Mail —Brisbane’s new morn-
ing paper—is to see the light shortly. Old war-
horse Buzacott is to lead the venture. The
Courier, which hasn’t been speaking to the Philp
Government except with bricks since the episode
of that £lOO advertisement, now shows signs of
making it up.
* * « *
The latest horror is the news that “to
augment the revenue Mr. O’Sullivan proposes to
allow advertising stands to be erected at the
approaches to the Government ferries throughout
the State.” There are soulless Goths in existence
who would augment the revenue (to the extent of
6d. or so) by allowing stomach-pill advertisements
to be pasted on the Seven Wonders of the World.
HIS REPUTATION.
THE GREAT TRAGEDIAN : “My interview with
the press states that I am receiving £30 per
week. I want to know if you will raise my
salary from 30s. to 35s. for stating the fact. "
RED HAT RESURCAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For his part he entirely disassociated himself from
those attacks made upon the people who went out on
strike. The public press and the influence of the country,
not only in Victoria but in the other States, had com-
bined in one great effort to crush those poor people.—
S.M. Hkrald, report of speech by Cardinal Moran.
Whatever a son of a gun or a pen
May say in his wrath of the Lords above,
You have shown this time in the light of men,
Red Hat, some valor—and human love.
You have made, mistakes—you have made men hiss
At sound of your name : Let all that be.
You have made amends ; a mistake like this
Was made on the Mount of Calvary.
The Parsons were dumb ; they had all to lose—
As dumb as they will be, without ever a doubt,
While Dives and company sit in their pews,
And Christ and His poor men stay without.
Good luck and good wind to you, Eminence 1
It’s a far cry still to Jehosaphat,
But you’ve not been sitting upon the fence—
And the betting is all on your side, Red Hat!
CREEVE ROE.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from Gcorge-street
or King street, Sydney.*
STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
4
An old Sydney pressman writes :
The R.C. diocese of Sydney has now three suicides of
priests to its credit. All three were men who had be»n
“silenced” by the Archbishop. The first was in Arch-
bi3hop Folding’s time. The poor gentleman, who was
ivell advanced in years, jumped overboard and was
irowned while on the way back to Ireland. As he had
booked his passage under an assumed name, even the
passengers were not aware of his identity. The secret
was well guarded, and very few in Australia ever learnt
how Father ******* ended his days. It was given out
here that the scholarly old priest had died in an Irish
monastery. The second case was that of the Rev. David
Fahey, of Tuam, who came to Sydney with Cardinal
Moran'in 1884. This unlucky cleric, unlike the majority
of priest* who get into trouble, did not look upon the
whisky when it was yellow. The story goes that
he made a speech to his parishioners, in which he
said he could not honestly ask them to send their
children to the local R.C. school, Its the make-
shift teacheis were not competent or experienced.
The gift of candor sealed the fate of David Fahey. He
was “suspended,” and explained himself so lucidly that
he was “ silenced.” For two or three years the advocate
of sound and liberal education kept himself by begging
in the city and suburbs. Then came the chronicle of his
suicide. A bag was found on one of the Manly steamers,
and in it w'as a letter stating that the owner of the bag,
worried to death by “ the ill-treatment he had received
at the hands of Cardinal Moran,” had ended his sorrow
in the harbor. No one saw David Fahey jump overboard,
nor was his body found. The “silenced” priest
certainly disappeared at the time and has not since been
heard of. Fa her Bunbury was on the eve of being “ sent
home ” for the benefit of his health. He was a physical
wreck, and those who knew him well say that with his
“second glass ” he lost his senses. After his health bad
been undermined by an awful attack of typhoid he was
well nigh “ broken to pieces ” through an accident while
driving and his head was badly hurt. His seemed to be a
case for skilful doctors, not for inexorable theolo-
gians. No cleric or lay man of the R.C. church attended the
inquest on Father Bunbury with a view to throwing the
charitable cloak of “ temporary insanity ” over the end
of the unfortunate priest, though one allowed
that he was “ eccentric." He was only 40, and had been
10 or 12 years in the Sydney diocese. He was buried
“without benefit of clergy.” Bunbury was an Irishman
who, in his excess of patriotism, hated England and John
Bull’most cordially. To complete the crown of sorrow of
the intensely Irish priest, the undertaker’s job was given
to William Bull.
* » * »
After making all allowance for the enthu
siasm of the faddist, it is impossible for a reason-
ing person to be-
lieve in the hon-
esty of Cole, the
Book Arcadian,
when he writes in
the second part of
his “A White Aus-
tralia Impossible”:
“One thing is cer-
tain—namely, that
every whe re
throughout tU e
world sunliglit or
its absence will go
on deciding the
color of every
human being.”
In America the
African negro
has been accli-
matised for more
than a century,
and his color has
approached no
nearer to that of
the indigenous
red man. In
Africa, the black
man’s land, the Boer
dates back 250 years,
and is still the white
enemy of the nig.
Cole’s isolated in-
stances of color-chang-
ing are the exceptions
that prove the rule.
* •
Enthusiasts are
moving to found a
Chair of “Peda-
gogy ” in connec-
tion with Sydney
University, the
object being to
teach teachers how
to teach. A start is
being made on the ex-
tension lecture plan.
But the main educational
difficulty is to get the. State to pay enough money
to attract the teacher who knows how to teach.
Apropos, could not some genius found, alongside
the Chair of Pedagogy for teachers, a Chair of
Beggary for parsons, so that when they rise to be
bishops and go to England on the track of back-
sheesh for repairing the Cathedral, they may
know how to do the job? What chance has
untrained beggar in so well-cadged a field as
England ?
* * * •
Just twelve months ago the average
Maoriland trooper from S’Africa could no- be
persuaded to part with his field service hat after
being discharged, more especially if said trooper
belonged to a company with feathered head-gear.
The scene has now changed. Little brother Bill
—the poor little cuss who comes in for all his
brother’s left-off clothing—dons the shapeless
things these days. • Hb is evbn alloVved to play
marbles with it on.
It is difficult not to feel a little sympathy
for that sailor at Albany (W.A.) who cut the
throat of the other sailor who wouldn’t leave off
playing the concertina in the forecastle. The crime
might bo a bad one, but the concertina is bad
also, if not worse. A time
will come when the person
who tears alleged melody
out of that crinkled public
enemy will be outlawed.
The only good thing the
writer knows about the con-
certina is that it
looks like the
bell topper of a
very drunk and
loyal merchant
whom he saw
fall in the gutter
on Mafficking
night.
A PASSIVE ATTITUDE.
MRS. FLOSSOP : “ You say you never gossip.”
MISS JOY : "Never When I feel disposed to hear my neighbors discussed I merely mention a
name and proceed to listen.”
The suppression by Melb. dailies of some
of the strike incidents was next door to criminal.
Had travellers known what was really happening
on Bungler Bent's lines every train would have
been empty. There were many idle rumors, of
course, but these, sifted, show that in at least
three cases very serious accidents were narrowly
shaved. The Adelaide alleged express (its first
journey took twice as long as the boat trip) ran so
close to a crossing Williamstown train at North
Melbourne that six yards more would have meant
a great smash. Bendigo and Essendon trains
next day got just as near to mixing themselves up.
And on a day when the papers exultantly
chronicled a great improvement in the service, and
stated that no hitch of any kind had occurred,
one of Tom Bent’s drivers leaving Princes Bridge
contrived to get his train on the wrong line. Not
one of these incidents found its way into the
dailies.
HIS PRIVATE HONOR.
KIND OLD LADY: “O you cowardly lad, how can
you, hit a boy so much smaller than yourself?”
THE PIRATE: "'Ere, you look out! This don't
call for no woman's interference, it’s an affai
of honor, see!”
Sydney detectives don’t have a chance to
do good work. They have to dawdle about King-
street in knots or congregate in pubs., instead of
having a proper club-house with easy-chairs, a
bar a complete set of nice barmaids, and a tele-
phone. With such, they could be kept off the
“ Block,” where the public gets to know them ;
aiid thieves and others could come in perfect
privacy and give the other fellow away.
M.L. Govt. Tourist Bureaux are doing
effective work, but at times they feel very small
and inefficient. A number of ladies lately called
at one and requested the latest novels for perusal.
They were astounded that they couldn t borrow
volumes when detained in
town by wet weather, and
plaintively asked what in
the name of Heaven the
Government was think-
ing about. Also a man
asked to be supplied
with a good-sized
portmanteau.
He was going
on a tour, and
unde r stood
that the Bureau
lent portman-
teaux.
The squalid story of Parson George Hay,
of Sydney, and his “one-man church” ended
with a sentence of 12 months’ gaol—sentence sus-
pended under First Offenders Act. Hay’s little
tin tabernacle and its almost nominal congregation
apparently existed chiefly to give him a status as
a cheap “marrying parson,” which business he
ran in a Sydney office. When the authorities
grew tired of him they refused to register him
again, and his marrying powers ceased on 31st
January. He apparently grabbed the last avail-
able coin by performing a marriage on 3rd Feb.
and dating the certificate back, and that false
certificate made the trouble.
Hardly had the Vic. railway wheels begun
to go round once more than the Age voiced the
anticipated cry of broken promises. As usual,
when the blackleg had served the employer’s pur-
pose he was tossed aside. They who stood by the
Government in its trouble were either put
“firing’’one on each engine with two returned
unionists for bosses, or told they would have
to go as ‘‘cleaners ”at 6s. a day. Of course this
is a disgraceful breach of faith—the men were
promised priority of billets and double pay for at
least two months—but it is impossible to have
any sympathy for anyone who trusted the Irvine-
Bent crowd.
• * * *
Bent is apparently trying to see how much
of his folly the country will stand. The reduced
passenger service—practically half the mileage
being knocked off—has caused a fearsome yell,
though that was to be expected ; but Bent has
now ordered the “time ” of some of the employees
to be halved to correspond. Consequence is that
sucli sizeable places as Harcourt and Trafalgar are
now being worked by a station-master and a
porter, each doing three days’ work (of about 21
hours each), and getting only three days’ pay. In
tIiGSQ two cases, this amounts to 30s. and
a week each ! Bent evidently wants another
strike.
• * • •
Bishop Stone-Wigg, of New Guinea, en-
tertained in Brisbane the other evening on his
return from a cadging trip to England, told once
more how he shook good King Ned by the handj
and then let himself out the front door without
-the aid of a flunkey. This yarn be breathlessly
related almost before he had his two feet well
planted on terra firrna, and he seems to keep
going at it. Also he spoke severely of “Hop’s ’
pictures of stewed missionary, and said they
“could only emanate from a mind that did not
desire to believe in missionary work.” It now
transpires that the shekels gathered in England
will only cover one year’s expenses of the obscure
nigger bishopric ; so Stone-Wigg’s little corner of
the vineyard seems to be still in a bad way. He
may yet have to go “ on at the halls,” showing his
roast jawbone of a cannibal victim to crowded and
enthusiastic houses nightly.
» . * *
A strong league has been formed in Ade-
laide for the preservation of the Park Lands that
surround the city. Almost all the space on the
north side has been gradually taken for Govern-
ment House, the University, Museum and Public
Library, Hospital, Parliament House, railways,
&e. tin the west a slice has gone for cemetery
and crematorium, and the object of the league is
to prevent further encroachment. Of 2400 acres
1947 still remain, but so many people and institu-
tions have an eye on this remnant that it is high
time to move in the matter.
Justice is a sudden thing sometimes in
Westralia. In Perth, one Merrifield was going
home one night with his takings (about £100)
when he was struck by a person or persons un-
known. He yelled for help, and some of the
helpers, a little later, found Patrick Noonan
making good time down the road and intercepted
him. He declared he was pursuing a man who
was running some distance ahead, but no one
seems to have put on a spurt to find out if any
such man really existed. There was no evidence
against Patrick Noonan, except the velocity he
had shown on the road, and when Judge Stone
barked out “six years hard labor” even Court
usher Munro sat up with a sudden show of
interest. It is quite possible, of course, that when
the law gathered in Noonan it collected the right
man—yet six years for running on the highway is
a good deal, and running on the highway was all
that was proved against Noonan. The rest was
inference, An inference isn’t much at any time;
and a Westralian inference is often very little
indeed.
QUITE OBVIOUS.
“ Please , Mister, pay for me to go in. I ain’t got
any small change on me.”
When the Victorian railway strike com-
menced, Bendigo was relieved to hear that one
Melbourne journal had, “with its usual enter-
prise,” engaged a motor-car to carry copies of the
paper to the northern district. “ Motor-car left
Melbourne at 3 a.m. with subscribers’ papers.
Arrive Bendigo 10 a.m.,” was the reassuring tele-
gram which appeared on the agent’s window.
Punctually at 10 the agent was besieged, but
dinner-time passed, and even night brought with
it no signs of the missing car. Incident had been
almost forgotten when, on the following evening,
a cyclist, perspiring and exhausted after a hundri d
mile spin from Melbourne with despatches,
staggered into a Bendigo paper office. “Saw
something funny on the track,” panted the
despatch rider—“ The lost motor car. Found it
backed up against a stone fence on the plains.
Couldn’t see anyone within miles of it, but an old
horse was eating the papers and chewing a Glad-
stone bag that had been left in the car.”
CUI BONO?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The streamlets join the river as it hurries to the ocean,
The river melts and mingles with the waters of the sea,
The west winds kiss the lilies as they whisper their
devotion,
E’en the wild flowers yield their sweetness at the wooing
of the bee.
The blue hills kiss the heavens, with their happy smile
reflected,
Ere the sun goes down in splendor where the waters meet
the sky ;
The evening shadows creeping with the gathering dark-
ness mingle,
Silver moonbeams ring and hallow where the thickest
shadows lie.
Every tall tree greets its neighbor, leaves and branches
interlacing ;
All things mix, caress and mingle in the earth and sky
and sea.
Yet what avails their mingling, their kissing and em-
bracing,
If the girl I love won’t kiss me—if her lips are dumb
to me ?
VIC.
J. M‘CLELLAND.
VILLANELLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Life in some country towns must be excessively
interesting. One journal was wildly enthusiastic the
other day over the arrival of an organ-grinder and his
monkey.”— Newspaper item.
Monotony has snapped her chain,
Come leave your labors ; in the street
Pete, with his monkey, grinds again,
Tbe creature’s face is old with pan.
The children gather for a treat;
Monotony has snapped her chain.
The organ’s battered ! Yet the strain
That issues forth is not less sweet;
Pete, with his monkey, grinds again.
Ah ! how much music they contain—
The octaves sometimes incomplete ;
Monotony has snapped her chain.
As some old song with kind refrain
Meets us, as parted friends may meet—
Pete, with his monkey, grinds again.
O i slumbering township on the plain
Awake and let your slow life beat.
Monotony has snapped her chain,
Pete, with his monkey, grinds again.
M.L.
W. FRANCIS CHAMBERS.
A WINTER WISH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Give me a glass
Of Austral wine,
And a sweet lass
To call her mine :
A cozy room,
Where we may be
Sure of ourselves
And harmony.
The moon might fall
Out of the 9ky ;
What would we reck
There—she and I ?
That room our night,
Our world would be,
With all its light
And poetry !
SYDNEY.
R. CRAWFORD.


BT the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS mrT, ' Ti
KLEINERT’S HOOKON
ISTHEONLY Correct Hose Supporter
To Wear with the NEW FORM CORSET
Sold only at the Best Shops.
61
* V
ev
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lacte, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
sure and safe home treatment. Jars
7s. 6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
truest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne.*
A Reliable Glove
which you can depend upon to give
you satisfaction—hard to get we
know, but Just try a sample pair of
The Royal Kid Glove
to be obtained in every color, and
•very pair carries a guarantee.
Prick j g*
4 O PAIR.
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion,"
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked by the
4/4 Leading Drapers. ••
trade mark THE VARNISHED BOARD" j
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 26, 1903.
Mr Dear Arini.—
Sydney has not been as gay as a lark (is
supposed to be) of late. Two murder trials have
closed, and a gentleman in holy orders has been,
in the dock for making a false declaration in
marrying a man to the woman he thought he
loved. No one really cares an old nail about the
matter, except, of course, the parson and his.
family, and probably the Judge, who said it was.
“very serious.” There are the usual canard
engagements blowing about. An evergreen
widow is reputedly engaged to (1) a medical man,
(2) a military official, (3) a bloque of high degree-
high as his collar. (I sincerely hope you don’t
consider “ bloque ” vulgar ; it is the very best
form, when spelt as I spell it.)
State-Gov. Rawson, with private sec. Robertson
Clarke, left last Monday for Norfolk Island in the.
Royal Arthur. Sir Harry will be absent about 10
days. If 800 people visit the flagship at one time
the island will be depopulated. A Council of:
Elders will greet the Governor, and the Irrational
Anthem will be played upon concertinas ; he will
be given a fish banquet and toasted in elder-flower-
wine by the Elders.
Women who are patching Themselves for St.
Vincent’s ball Gainsborough set will be pleased to.
know that their organiser, Mr. Clarke, won’t need
to build a girl-proof fence around himself whilst;
doing his Norfolk Island pine. The women there,
are very rococo; the fashion of their clothes is.
obsolete, and their persiflage is not up-to-date.
(Heaven knows it couldn’t be weaker than that,
current in Sydney). Mr. Clarke, by the way,
goes back to his own land in a few months and!
Mr. Share, the brass-bound young officer who used!
to sec. for Admiral Beaumont, succeeds him at
CranbroOk.
A governor’s private sec. is no more made than
is a poet or a Marconi. Only a limited supply of!
the kind of man who becomes a successful vice-
regal sec. is let loose on the planet at one time.
They are the most exquisite frauds ever fashioned.
When a country lady, looking like a brahmapootra,
hen and wearing a hat like a last year’s cabbage,
goes to the office in Macquarie-st. to ask Sir Harry’s,
big-headed young sec. if the Governor would like,
her to write her name in his book with a J nib. or
a Magnum Bonum, he makes her believe that her
inquiry shows not only a bright intelligence but a
great intellect, and explains that his chief would,
really prefer her to inscribe with a fountain pen.
and not, as most other Australians do, with a
thumb-nail dipped in tar. She mentions her
married daughter, Mrs. Emu, and his remarks,
lead her to understand that he had read an
Account of the wedding in the Cane-Grass
Swamp Chronicle. She comes away a broiling-
hot Tory, and quite convinced that, if it,
were not for a press of vice-regal business, the.
private sec. with the jury-proof face would escort;
her back to her coffee-palace, and be introduced
to Mrs. Emu
n News of Mr. F. B. Suttor’s appointment to be.
President of Legislative Council, at £llOO a year,
was a matter of interested comment amongst the.
huge crowd at Saturday’s football match. The.
new President is a well-liked, well-looking man.
That commanding military personality, Mrs.
Douglas Mackenzie, is a sister of his. Another is
Mrs. Flood, a smart widow, who owns, or whose,
late husband owned, Flood’s wharf, on the
western side of Circular Quay. The Suttors, who,
have two daughters out, are living temporarily at,
Dryburgh Camp, Rose Bay.
. The Rawson ladies paced up and down the saw-
dust aisles of the dog, cat and bird show, held
last week, admiring the Rovers, and Neros, and
Persian pussies and big fowls. The animals were
of the usual dress-circle class, well-groomed, well-
fed, with pedigrees, noisy and expensive, and
quite uninteresting to anyone but their owners.
The most interesting dogs I know are the home-
less ones, which the police never arrest, dogs,
which snatch a meal about once a week and are
lame in one or more paws. Speak to one of these,
at night on your way into a theatre and you’ll
find him waiting for you and waltzing with joy
when you come out. Speak to him again and
you’ll find him at your heels what time your latch-
key goes into the iock. The weary trudges I’ve
done to lonely spots carrying a meat-pie (a two-
penny one) trying to lure away and lose a tramp-
dog which desired to adopt me ! The supply of
cats was limited, and the ladies who exhibited
never left “Whiskers,” or “ Djin-Djin,” or
“Pearl of Persia” for a minute. At one of the
local cat exhibitions last year ten valuable Per-
sians were poisoned and died on their way home.
There is considerable of the green-eyed element
in those who breed Persians for profit.
The “ book-tea ” isn’t quite dead yet. At
a recent function of the kind, after the “Pil-
grim’s Progress ” and “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” and
the “ Light that Failed” and other stereotyped
volumes had arrived and been guessed, a lady
came in proudly carrying in her extended palm
half-a-pound of butter When everybody’s eve
was fixed on the butter, she threw it across the
room with such violence that half of it flew on to
a picture near the ceiling, and the rest went
partly on the dado and partly in somebody’s
eye. There was a long, strained pause while the
hostess flocked up on a chair and scraped the
edible off the picture, and the other visitors were
getting grease out of their eyes. Then the people
present said rather coldly that they gave it up,
whereupon the new arrival explained delightedly
that she represented Besant’s “Golden Butter-
fly.” Even then a few dull people didn’t under-
stand, and the lady got almost angry, and asked if
they didn't see the golden butter fly across the
room.
Can’t some women drop in the nitric acid ! At
a suburban political meeting lately were a number
of women who are taking tne vote seriously. A
politician who, some years ago, got quit of his
matrimonial bonds by law made a facetious refer-
ence to Mr. O’Sullivan’s idea of “ Australia
Facing the Dawn.” Quick came the reply from
one of the audience: “A much more creditable
picture than that of you facing the Divorce Court
with closed doors 1 ”
Emily Soldene is again in operatic harness in
Xiondon, so she writes. Audran’s comic opera,
“La Toledad,” is the piece. It was produced for
the first time in England at the Theatre Royal,
Windsor, and goes, says Emily in the E. News,
“with shrieks of laughter.” Melbournian Roland
'Cunningham is in the cast.
Junior members of two ancient Australian
families joined interests recently when F. A.
Macarthur Onslow, youngest son of late Captain
•Onslow, R.N., and grandson of John Macarthur
■of early days, was married to Miss Sylvia Ray-
mond Chisholm, a great grand-daughter of James
•Chisholm, of George-street, Sydney, also an
identity of our brief antiquity.
Snapshots of the Sultana of Johore, as pro-
duced in the Southern weeklies, show her to be a
tall, elegant-looking woman. The prince married
her on his last visit to London. He is said to
be very devoted to her, and if there are other
ladies on his matrimonial staff they are probably
wildly jealous of the fair Englishwoman trespass-
ing on their Malayan preserves. The Austra-
lian man-in-the-street, by the way, has lost
all interest in the Sultan since it transpired
that he hasn’t brought a harem with him. An
Asiatic potentate without his harem seems some-
what outside of the fitness of things. And the
harem would have been such a fine thing for the
hotels—look what a suite of rooms it would have
required.
Apropos of harems, they tell a story about the
late Gladstone. An Eastern potentate was visit-
ing England—a Persian, or some other diplomati-
cally important personage—and there arose a
difficulty, because he expected to be pre-
sented with a harem as a matter of hospita-
lity and courtesy. The trouble came before the
Foreign Office and was debated gravely and
anxiously. It wouldn’t do to offend the potentate.
But then Exeter Hall ? Finally, one of his Cabinet
colleagues ended the discussion : “ Oh, let us refer
it to Gladstone; he’ll find a way to satisfy the
Shah and his conscience, too.” The story stops
there and doesn’t say whether Mr. Gladstone
justified the confidence in his political ability.
I have seen but two short-skirted women in
Sydney up to date—that is, with short skirts that
Rave no shortcomings, but which are cut and ‘ ‘flare ”
elegantly. Miss Kingston, the big, fair, eyebrow-
less member of the “Are You a Mason?” co.,
wears a blue cloth short skirt. It looks to be six
inches off the ground. Miss Fosbery, always a
smart dresser, also wears a no-connection-with-
the microbe skirt. She was the first Sydneysider
to adopt the new fashion, which, with 30s. shoes
and gaiters the same color as your dress, is the
acme of smartness.
A large-sized Govt. House party came out to
the Australian game of football at Sydney Cricket
•Ground. Ladies of the party left a dress memory
■of blacks, browns, greys, violets, silver furs, and
sables and ostrich boas. The two teams, the
Maroons and the Black-and-Whites, came and
etood before the members’ grand-stand, then
■closed up, looked at the Governor, and gave three
■cheers, waving their caps. “Hail, Geyser!
those about to play, salute thee,” was what they
meant.
Mr. O’Sullivan sat in the Governor’s box by
special request, and explained the game .to the
ladies of the party. Miss Rawson seemed quite
interested to know that “rabbiting,” “slinging,”
“hacking,” and “scrumming” are very bad
form in this game of football. The Minister for
Works had seen it played 25 years ago in Victoria,
.and had taken a hand and a hoof at it himself.
The news arrives by cable that certain French
people are quarrelling over a will whereby a
■certain Harold Barker, of Sydney, who recently
died in France, bequeathed to one of them
£1,500,000 cash and an estate in Westmoreland
(England). If any of these French people went
to large expense in soothing Harold Barker’s last
moments with a view to this fortune, and buried
him expensively on the strength of it, the proba-
bilities are that there will be a dull grey awaken-
ing presently. Sydney keeps a pretty careful
list of ics millionaires, and no Society for the Pre-
vention of Lost Dogs at this end of the world
remembers asking Harold Barker for a donation.
Just-appointed vice-consul for U.S.A. is
Llewellyn Jones, better known as “ Steel-
Trust ” Jones. He represents in Australia the
American Steel Combine, of which Carnegie is
head. No salary is attached to the diplomatic
billet, but it carries with it considerable smoke
and some glory, because when the v.-c. calls on
visiting warships he gets a salute of seven guns.
A concert in aid of the Dental Hospital funds
will take place, on Saturday next, in Centenary
Hall. A worthy charity, a splendid programme.
Take a tioket.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The Hashidate decorations on the day of
the Jap Squadron ‘ At Home ’ ran to diminutive
flags, button-flowers, and curious artificial foliage,
while deck flower-beds were devoted to a droll
style of paper-blooms on picket duty. Notices in
Japanese characters asked guests to keep off
the grass, ‘Like the order in our Gardens,'
said a corpulent city father to a Jap. He
shrugged his shoulders and remarked with a
gallant bow: ‘To.copy is to make sincerest
flattery.’ ‘That is Shakspeare,’ said a small
feather-duster of a dame. ‘ Ah, you know,’ said
the Jap, and went on : ‘ I like every day to read
the works of Byron and Shakspeare. I have read
this morning “ The Isles of Greece ” —very pretty
idea.’
“ All smart Society lent its frill to that Hashi-
date function, and had some novel sensations in
the queer antics of the ship’s athletes. The
fencing bouts of two supple and remarkably agile
middies led a German lady to feel faint. ‘They
should stop,’ she told her frivolous neighbors,
excitedly; ‘ they are too passionate.’ But they
continued to bash about cleverly with their
clumsy foils, and finished after a final tilt of some
heat with grinning signs of reassurance. The
wrestlers went at it in very scanty clothes, and
the womenfolk got rather too generous a view of
autumn-tinted flesh. One of the middies was a
young Ajax, and had the most perfectly shaped
legs I have ever seen away from a bronze pedestal.
“There were quite a dozen heavy-weight
matrons in tender young cream toilettes. Mrs,
Bowes Kelly was the most considerable of the
cream dames, and gorgeous is the only word to
describe her outfit. One remarkable guest wore a
grand blue and pink embroidered and tinselled
matron’s kimona and —an every-day feathered
hat.
“Now we know why Malcolm M'Eacham was
fixed up as Jap Consul. He has been leading the
visiting Japanese about a whole week with a skirl
of the Scottish pipes and a bang of the municipal
drum, and getting much glory therefrom. When
not administering hospitality to the little brown
man at his own ‘ Goatlands ’ board, he was super-
intending other peoples’ hospitality in the same
direction. Before the end of the week the mis-
tress of ‘ Goatlands ’ broke down from the strain
of daily entertainments, and it was with a relaxed
throat she greeted the couple of hundred of guests
bidden to her Wednesday afternoon corroboree.
“I had a yarn with Jap Admiral Kamimura at
his own headquarters on the Hashidate. An in-
troduction from a Western host worked the oracle
through that interesting personage, Commander
Moriyama. This is the Wallington of the staff, who
looks down his little brown nose as he sizes one up.
He speaks English well, and is gallant in a
haughty fashion, five years of life in Paris being
responsible for the tight-buckled waist, and the
dandy airs of courtesy. It was with many
announcements of approach and apologies for
glain garb that the Admiral himself appeared.
le has a superiority of inches as of rank. He
gave the English fashionable hand-shake and
without any preliminaries set his brown boys
careeringround the book-cases forviewsand curios.
Meanwhile he explained a curious armorial exhibit
of wonderfully wrought steel, lacquer and gems—
a complete suit of ancient armor. The Admiral
took the colossal helmet with a large auriferous
smile and fitted it on his head. This tickled all
the middies, the Jap. middy being allowed full
and unrestrained laughter in the great presence.
“ His Jap Ex. has a wife—one wife. Her
portrait shows her as a serious, middle-aged lady,
with tranquil eyes and folded hands, in a gorgeous
kimona. All the recent Westralian and Adelaide
snapshots were trotted forth with gratified smiles.
Then the Wallingtonian Jap appears, makes his
dapper bow and reminds his chief of a dinner
appointment. And the Admiral rushes away.
‘ You will kindly see my ship. My officers will
guide you. I regret to go. Please you—
Syonara1 ’
“ Only two Federal Ministers turned up to the
Monday Mayoral junket—Premier Barton and
Postmaster Drake, whose chubby little wife is
one of the smartest of the Federal dames. She
seems to have a fancy for unique and expensive
waist buckles. . The pallor of the Chief Justicess
made her girlish blue gown for once look too
juvenile. Another matron in blue radiating on
the dais was Mrs. Gordon. Lady Silverlocks, a
complete and uncommon study in grey, was more
facile than any in engaging the Jap. Admiral in
talk.
“In the Mayoral supper-room, Madame
Albertine Gay sang whilst others drank. ‘ She
sings of love,’ I heard one dame explain to a pair
of Japs. They nodded seriously—as they always
do, out of politeness, when they do not under-
stand. ‘She sings of the heart,’ persisted the
lady, pointing to the brim of her low-cut bodice.
Then they blushed, laughed, and said so much in
their own tongue to each other that she was sorry
she spoke. ‘ You stand in a draught,’ urged
another motherly soul. ‘You will catch cold.’
‘No, no, thank you,’ answered the blue-jacket,
‘ but the ladies will. They wear so little garment.
In Jap-an, we do not see the nice ladies so un-
clothed.’ Then that motherly soul passed with
British scorn.
“ Court knickers and brass buttons had it all
their own way at the Government House party on
Tuesday. Plainly-habited males felt grievously
out of it, as their toes were trodden by spurred
heels and buckled shoes. Lady Clarke looked a
picture in her fine arrangement of silver
locks, her black robe, her beautiful white
lace, and. her dignified, camera smile. The
Jap. admiral and his officers were present
and Big John Forrest was a fine sight for
them. Many of them spent their time measuring
inch by inch that Falstaffian frame. When pre-
sented to him, they stood shyly under his lee side
and said nothing. When the huge craft pitched
to another course, and endeavored to negotiate a
passage through the guests, they nodded their
heads, looking like Lilliputians gazing at Gulliver
wonderingly.
“Among Melbourne sassiety brides there is
now a perfect mania for getting married
in somebody else’s clothes. In the big
Clarke wedding the most advertised por-
tion of the bride’s apparel was the historic
lace on her wedding dress, and at several subse-
quent marriages it has been loudly trump-
eted forth that the bride wore her grand-
mother’s veil, or the corsage worn by Marie
Louise when she married Napoleon, or the
stockings in which Katherine of Franoe was
wedded to Henry V. Why should the women
have a monopoly of this flaunting of second-hand
clothes at weddings ? It is time that man asserted
himself, and gave reason for such a paragraph as •
The bridegroom was tastefully attired in a pair
of check trousers from Jacobstein’s shop in
Russell-street. The trousers are attributed to
Lord Brassey during his term of office as
Governor of Victoria. ’ Or-‘ Mr. Pure Merino
stepped to the altar clad in a frock coat from
Cohens misfit parlor, which is said to have been
worn by the Duke of Wellington until his fellow
peers ehaffed him into disposing of it. Orivinallv
black, it is now a rich tint of ureen J
generally much admired.’ g ’ d Was
“ Wedding Marches were heard on all sides W
week Besides the usual organ renderings of the
th g e n bind n nf 8 fh ai T 8 at th 6 suburban knot tyinga
the band of the Japanese warship gave forth
march with much impressiveness !nd 1 ttle mle
vanoe as the guests were skipping aboard £
tI hSimW t nd on in £
I own Hall, Mark Hambourg sent his mamV fte
gers spinning through it. But only a Parifanda
Helen could have possibly been equal to the Maroh
as Mark strummed it. It was a stately procesS
of magnificent chords and a fountain-p ay Sns
flowers. _ The old spectacle of anxious mothei
heroic girls, and disdainful johnnies is dS?'
WcompanUd by brilliant
Society and the first-nighters are bidden fn »
tea party at Her Majesty’s on Tuesday (27th) to
give welcoming smiles to Miss Van Buren-who
comes with a reputation for charms. Miles
Florence Young and Carrie Moore are on ?h e
cards as running the show. tne
“ T , wo of the engine-drivers’ wives saf
a ten hours strike debate when things were at a
climax up at the State Assembly. Dunk y GilLt
occurred now and then during the sitting but
though he is physically sound, the mind *of the
ancient wearies quickly and seems incapable of
holding any thought long. p eot
“ For once Chinny Clarke had not to wed words
of wailfulness to a charity institute blessing at
the annual meeting of the Ministering
League the other day. There was a sound credit
balance shown and the treat of uttering aSo
Gratias ; instead of a Misericordia so elated the
chirpy Governor that his whole speech glowed like
a happy inspiration. It must be a bit fagging for
an official to tune his tongue to sympathy at
down-at-heel charity affairs/ 1 y 1
After the Marshall Hall concert, Hhe other
Saturday several ‘orchestral teas’ were booked
at a cafe down the street. Seated in a bower of
roses and chrysanthemums at that tea party was
Miss Louie Mueller, whose deep-throated warb
lings of a Gluck gem at the concert were a fine
feather in the Conservatorium cap. The fair
singer did a foolish thing in the eves of the
audience that afternoon by dashing along to the
balcony perch between Madame Wiedemann and
Argus critic, Carlyle Smythe, immediately after
her number. All the same-not to say the
act wasnt purely the spontaneity of youth-
the Argus notice of the Mueller tootle was un-
demonstrative. At the Cafe rally, all the Wieder-
mann clan burnt their holocausts at the Mueller
altar, while a more sober academic party paid
quiet homage, under the lead of the English pro-
fessor, to the ‘ Pagan ’ Marshall Hall.
“The winter gear of lovely woman this season
runs to a most monotonous slate greyness. The
shops are stocked with thousands of hairy greys.
Presently we shall have large grey gatherings
fogging the sight. _ Even jaunty Florence Young
in spite of spreading dimples and robust anima-
tion, failed to make a grey (and very smart) turn-
m T> tc ? wn , tbe otber day, look anything but
dull. Rain-clouds seem to be ever rolling over
the slate-grey garb.
The wives of the Boer delegates had a social
afternoon, at a new feminine club, the other day
wben j e w^e ?* tbe Waxeellency, and several
other dames of importance, presided at the tea-
urn. One of the she-visitors—Mrs. Lane— steams
along m English talk with comparative ease.
Mrs. Jooste is quieter and less accommodating.
Her English is rather foggy to follow. The first
matron is a keen reader, and an intelligent talker.
Hhe owns up—the ‘ barbarian’s ’ wife does—to
Ping Pong sympathies and all the drawing-room
tricks of the Britisher. Music is becoming a
passion with the Boers. *My own children,’ said
Mrs. Jooste, ‘are all musical.’
“ Mr. Cotton, who died recently at Daylesford,
had managed the Colonial Bank in -that town for
30 years. He was Janet Lady Clarke’s uncle,
and about three years ago his pretty, eldest
daughter married the Cliveden widow’s youngest
son, Mr. Francis Clarke, the young pair being
second cousins. Daylesford residents say their
town will seem strange to them for a while with
never a glimpse of old Mr. Cotton, who, sparse,
though he was, retained to the last an erect bear-
ing and quiet dignity of manner, envied by many
a more successful banking identity. The rela-
tionship between the Cliveden clan and the late
Af r - T^ ton be ff an with the widow’s mother, who
was Miss Cotton until she married Colonel
Snodgrass.
Gardening is the latest fashionable feminine
fad. . A garden bat and a watering can and a
pruning knife are acquisitions to the out-door
charmer s pose. It is also poetic work and, with
fertilizing odora out of the question, inspires
st !U7hs of a chivalrous strain. Altogether the
ga.d j cult comes to smart women with pic-
turesque inducements.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


SCIATICA I!
Oh, the fiendish agony of Sciatica ! Sciatica, shooting through the nerves and down the legs, with its
sharp spasms of paralysing pain ! Sciatica —swift as lightning—sharp as needles—hot as liquid fire ! Oh,
the terrible torture of this piercing, agonising, crippling Sciatica !
There is just one sure, scientific cure for Sciatica, Neuralgia, Headaches, Backaches, Lumbago and
Rheumatism —you must drive the pain from your blood and nerves with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Liniments can never cure nerve and blood diseases. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills make straight at their
cause —because they actually moke new blood. Through the blood they conquer the painful poison, soothe the
nerves, loosen the muscles and banish every ache. Read :
MONTHS OF AGONY. Mr. George Simpson, of St. John-st., Newtown, Sydney, says : “ Six years ago
Sciatica attacked me. For nine months I was at its mercy, and suffered terribly. My back and right leg seemed as if
they were being pierced through with red-hot needles. Often I longed for death. The doctor injected morphia, but it
only numbed the pain a little. I was practically crippled when I began taking Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They had
cured my daughter of rheumatism—so 1 was confident they would end my tortures. Five boxes cured me completely.
I have the full use of mv limbs now, and am strong and healthy.”
When purchasing be sure that the name— Dr. on every box you buy. Beware of pills dyed pink or sold loose in
glass bottles, or in any other form.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. , Queen’s Place, Sydney, 2s. 9d. a box ; six boxes, 15s. 3d., post free.
0
I
%
*
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Last week three old residents of Bathurst
“ went over -” at 91, 83 and 71r-an aggregate of
245 years.
“I am not prone to be personally offen-
sive.”— John Norton, in an open letter to Victorian
Premier Irvine.
A Yankee paper records the marriage of
Kate Fraser (who shot her husband, Dr. Fraser, in
Melbourne) to Benjamin Holt, of Mitchell, South
Dakota.
The oldest resident at Watson’s Bay
(Sydney) is Mrs. Humphries, 93 vears of age who
has lived in one house for 73 years. This com-
munity is beginning to settle down.
Ogier, ex-P.M. (Vic.), plaintiff in an action
for alleged libel against John Norton, is the author
of a Standard text book on Libel Law. Ogier is
one of the oldest of Victorian barristers.
Wright, the journalist, who came to Tom
Bent’s rescue as an engine-driver, claims that he
•wrote the articles in the Agb which caused
Speight to bring an action for libel against David
Syme.
Ex-detective Edward Broomfield, who died
at Paddington, Sydney, last week, aged 86 years,
came out in the Bangalore, the ship that brought
the first batch of London policemen in 1855. He
retired on pension in 1876.
Henry Turner, whose signature at the foot
of the annual balance sheets of the Bank of New
South Wales was an indication that the figures
were “0.k.”, retires from the bank on pension
after nearly 50 years of service.
George Lansell, Bendigo’s wealthiest
mine-owner and speculator, is reported to be at
death’s door. Lansell will probably die
richer than J. B. Watson, father-in-law of Malcolm
M'Eacharn, who left £2,000,000.
Win. fteay, an old-time artist, died at
Waratah (Newcastle, N.9.W.), on Saturday, aged
72 years. As a portrait painter he was widely known
up North in the seventies. He had two sons in
the N.S.W. Public Instruction Department.
Thomas Dalton and J. T. Toohey, the
two heavy liquor men George Dibbs planted in
the Leg. Council, have disappeared after about a
decade of the honor. C. J. Roberts, Parkes’ con-
tributed liquor man, hangs on after thirteen years.
“ R.S.A.”: The names of the penny
novelette heroines are not found in the slums
alone. I know a Vic. farmer with five daughters
—Ethel Belinda, Phyllis Adelaide, Beatrice
Maude, Bertha Emily Lucinda, and Lydia
Frances.
SAM LEON,
OBOWN PROSECUTOR
(VIC.).
Squatter Murray, who is going to tussle
for tne Senatorial seat of the speechless Ferguson
of Queensland, is an all-wool, branded on both
•idea Tory, and his political record will be a ter-
rible handioap for him if a good man starts
against him.
A man recently suicided at Bacchus Marsh
(V.), at the same place and in exactly the samo
manner as his father had done over 40 years before
him. The suicide, in each case, dressed himself
in a weird costume of a shirt and a vest and then
cut his throat with a razor.
John Lackey, retiring President of
N.S.W. Leg. Council, has been for years an
invalid, and unable to carry out even the alleged
duties of his position. They consist mostly in
sleeping publioly before the Nominees, but Mr.
Lackey generally slept at home.
Mr. O. A. Tunbridge (late Major O. A.
Tunbridge), of Queensland, and latterly of S.A.,
who, besides retiring from the military service,
forfeited his rank, &c., has taken over a fruit
garden in S.A. He is his own master now, and
not pestered with any “ haw ” officahs.
British mercantile Jack is getting as scarce
as the cave bear or the genuine Freetrader. At
Brisbane last week the captain of the British ship
Oohtertyre had seven of his British bulldogs up
for wilful disobedience and their names were,
Lane (German), Keilgabt (Dane), Lungreen
(Svvede), Morrison (American), Andersen (Swede),
Kristansen (Dane) aud Thomas (English).
A. G. Hales (“ Siniler ”), of Adelaide and
elsewhere, war-correspondent and novelist, has
got into trouble through letting himself be driven
about London by one Ahrensmayer, who holds
the reins and is blindfolded, while Hales, sitting
alongside, “concentrates his thoughts on the
route to be taken.” The police interfered while
the experiment was going on with (so far)
nobody killed.
S. T. Staughton, M.L.A. (Vic.), who died
of appendicitis last week, aged 27 years, was
physically a splendid man. He was grandson of
Simon Staughton, a violently rich man of the
early days of Melbourne. Old Simon’s daughter
married Howard Spensley, Solicitor-General in
the Duffy Ministry in 1871-72.
The recent meeting, at Maclean (N.S.W.),
of the four Sees, Premier John, Sam, Dave, and
Joseph, is said to have been the first complete
re-union for very many years. Cribbage-players
may note with interest that there might be six
meetings, at each of which two Sees were present,
before the same two need meet again.
Mat. Reid, one of the stormy petrels of
the Queensland labor movement, and twice
member of Parliament, is being slowly consumed
by consumption. He is a carpenter by trade,
and, before all-night sittings wrecked his health,
was a robust giant of stentorian lung and much
rugged eloquence. He is still under 40.
Capt. Rodda, the old ’Murkan mine-
manager who died the other day at Kalgoorlie,
saw the end of the whole foolish business which
ended in Cronje penning-up raider Jameson at
Krugersdorp. Rodda was at the time managing
the Lancaster venture, and it was round that
mine’s dumps that the stupendous blunderer fell
into the trap.
D. D. Wheeler, retired Chief of Vic.
Hansard, is the only surviving pressman who sat
m the gallery of the old Leg. Council Chamber in
St. Patrick’s Hall, which managed the affairs of
the nation before the introduction of Responsible
Government in ’56. The last surviving member of
the old Leg. Council is Duncan Longden, of
Geelong Times.
In May, 94 years ago, the maternal grand-
father of Customs Minister Kingston crossed the
Douro. That, at the time, was a feat. He fol-
lowed it later by carrying the town of Plattsburg
against the United States soldiers. He was then
Major Cameron, but for these and other exploits
he became Colonel. Nearly 70 years ago he com-
manded the 3rd Buffs in Sydney.
Queensland Federal member Page has just
concluded a tour of his electorate, which contains
303,000 square miles —nearly half of Queensland.
He began in October last, so that it has taken him
over six months to get round. Speaking at Mary-
borough, he stated that many of the far-off electors
didn't know they had a Federal member; some
of them weren’t even aware that Federation had
been brought about.
The body of a well-known backblock
pioneer, the old Switzer, Louis Giudice, was taken
from a Sydney hospital for burial in Dubbo last
week. Most people who drank liquor in the western
country between 30 and 40 years ago had a helping
from Louis. After pub-keeping in various places
he started storekeeping, and became a large con-
tractor. He opened more Freemasons’ and Odd-
fellows’ lodges than any other backblocker. Died
at 73.
Caple, the snuffbox bookseller, who died
recently, had a brother, an itinerant newsvendor,
who stood at Cashmore’s corner (Collins and
Elizabeth-streets, Melb.), bawling “Argus,
Herald, and Age.” The brothers were friendly,
and the bookseller, who lived at Elsternwick,
would invite the itinerant to dinner on Sunday,
but the newsvendor brother never accepted the
offer as the bookseller brother would not pay rail-
way fare.
The surrender of the railway men de-
prived Victoria of a vision. A young and very
wealthy dude was among those to whom Bent had
decided to entrust the job of rushing wildly over
the face of the earth with a disorganised loco-
motive, and he spent over £lO on a uniform suited
to the ideal engineer. Before he could get into
it the strike collapsed, and now a gold-braided
outfit that would equip a dazzling Venezuelan
general or a field-marshal of the Cannibal Islands
is quite useless.
Francis Bathurst Suttor, who climbs into
the Presidency of N.S.W. Leg. Council at the age
of 64, is a native of Bathurst and was educated at
King’s School, Parramatta. The Suttor family
came to N.S.W. over a century ago with Botanist
Joseph Banks ; first took root atßaulkham Hills,
and later moved to Bathurst. F. B. Suttor’s
father was member of the old Legislature which
preceded Responsible Government, and was
elected to the first Parliament under the new
system.
The case of parson George Hay for a
breach of the Registration Act recalls Bishop
Bailey. The latter had a so-called ohuroh off
Oxford-street, Sydney. He was duly authorised
to celebrate marriages, and did so at all hours.
Once, however, in 1872, he celebrated a marriage
for a minor, and was pounced upon immediately.
Alfred Stephen, C.J., gave him six months,
which he served, the Judge telling the Bishop
that he ought to be very grateful that he did not
remember certain other things against him. On
his release Bailey applied for fresh registration,
and was refused. From the Registrar-General
he appealed to the Full Court, argued his own
case very ably, but was finally refused. Then he
started as a tutor, and coached many of the men
now in the learned professions.
Justice Williams (Vic.), now retir-
ing, goes “home” to end his days-
though his home practically is Mel-
bourne, he having been bom in
Brunswick-street, Fitzroy, in
1843, when his father divided
with Redmond Barry the business
of the Supreme and minor courts
—excepting police—in Port Phil-
lip. When the father, Edward
Eyre Williams, retired from
the bench, he went to
Europe and, touring
Switzerland with a
favorite daughter, ,
the latter unfortu- C,
nately fell over a cliff.
The body, writer be-
lieves, was never re-
covered. It went a long
way towards killing the old
Judge. In his day old Justice
Williams was regarded as
the laziest man that ever
adorned the bench, and his
struggles to pass heavy eases
on to his learned brethren
were pathetic.
Old Melbourne and
old Sydney ! In Septem-
ber, 1838, seventy cen-
tral allotments in
Melbourne were put
up for sale in Sydney.
Dr. Thomas Black, then
physician at Penrith,
saw a crowd round a
dingy shed in King-street ;
went in to ascertain the cause of
the excitement, and heard for the
first time of Port Phillip and
the settlement called Melbourne.
Then he nodded to his friend
the auctioneer, and the latter
mistook it for a business transac-
tion. The doctor consequently
found himself called upon to
pay £167 for an allotment, and
paid it disgustedly. During his
declining years he drew from that acci-
dental bit of ground .£3OOO a year in
rents. It was situated at the corner of
Swanston and Collins streets.
Forrest, M.L.A. for Brisbane, the bluster-
ing gentleman who tried to bounce Kingston at a
grievance-meeting up there, is known locally as
“Pompom” Forrest—why “Pompom” is not
clearly stated, though rumor says it’s because he
sticks his hair up after the style of Pompadour
Corbett, pugilist. It was Forrest who was left-
bower when the late J. R. Dickson was euchred
for the Q. Premiership, but Dickson and Kingston
are two different types, and Pompom didn’t take
a single trick this time.
Mrs. Kendall (widow) and Mr. F. C.
Kendall (son) approve of Wood’s bust of the poet.
Kendall’s best bust is a collection of his verses.
What’s tiie good of sticking him up on a post like
an alderman? Kendall is the only man whose
personal weakness Henniker Heaton stamps in
print in his Dictionary of Dates. It is somewhat
of a coincidence that Kendall is supposed to have
worshipped at the shrine of the Miss Bennett
who introduced canvasser Heaton to affluence
and newspaper ownership.
Old Dr. Hector, for over 40 years Maori-
land’s Govt. Geologist, retires now on a pension.
The ancient, who is an M.D. of Edinburgh, was,
nearly 50 years ago, assistant to the great Scotch
surgeon, James Simpson—he who discovered the
an test lie tic properties of chloroform. Hector
got on to the track of his life-work through
accompanying the Palliser expedition to the
Rockies; in his excursions there he discovered
and afterwards described the pass which the
Canadian-Pacific line now follows.
A Federal senator, who has great faith in
his own oratory, wrote recently to an inland
Mayor stating he would be in the town in a few
days, and would be glad to deliver a public
address if the Mayor would convene a meeting.
The reply by postcard was :
Have consulted aldermen and others. Don’t want to
hear you.
That town, so far as one senator is concerned,
may as well realise that it is out of the running as
the site for the Federal capital.
Pumpkin item, by “ E. Kew ” :
Your issue of 2/5/’O3 contains a reference to an incident
in the history of Humphrey Oxenham, which I have often
heard told by old Johnny Wallace. I refer to the bet re
pumpkin carrying. Old Johnny was, so to speak, “ the
party of the other part,” as he laid and lost the bet.
Johnny’s version of the affair was that the wager was a
much larger sum than you mention. The difficulty of
the feat consisted principally in balancing the pumpkin.
It was a prize-winner at a local show, and of course a
large one, and almost entirely round, so that Johnny
anticipated a certain win. In order to ensure that the
pumpkin should not be interfered with, Johnny sub-
sidised the local blacksmith to stand sentry over it all
night, bjut the sentry looked upon the beer when it
frothed, and neglected his duty, and during the night
some one basely removed the stalk of the vegetable. The
hollow thus left enabled Oxenham to balance the vast
object on his head and win Johnny’s money.
A FINANCIAL ITEM.
MELBOURNE MAN : “ What do you admire most
in our city? ”
SYDNEY MAN : “ Your wives signing your cheques.”
Some months ago a derelict and beery
English barrister was the Mte noir of the Sydney
barristers. One at least had a happy knack of dis-
posing of the trouble. Spruce Myth told the de-
relict to call at the counter of the S.M. Herat,n
each morning at 10 o’clock for 2s. 6d.; on Satur-
day he drew something extra. The stipend was
to end if the recipient ever crossed the path of
the well-dressed Spruce Myth, who isn’t half so
ferocious in private life as he is in his political
theories. Many a comforting beer and hot
sausage did that derelict have on Mr. Myth’s
money.
Arturo Loureiro relinquished his painting
school in Melbourne when, 12 months ago, he was
attacked with incipient paralysis. Since arrival
in his native Portugal, where he is living with a
brother, the gentle Loureiro has given up all hope
of ever returning to Australia.' ITis wife, who
belongs to the clever Huybers family, is the art
critic of the Melbourne Agk. Huybers pere was
a Belgian, who resided in Tasmania. One of his
daughters was “Tasma,” the novelist. When
she died, her brother, who had been in the Vic-
torian Agent-General’s office, in London, succeeded
her as the Times correspondent at Brussels.
When Captain Seddon, the gory Pre-
mier’s son, returned to Maoriland from the
African farm-burning job, he elected to go on the
* ai ™ ,® u resourceful dad has now managed
to find him a billet—disentangling the hopeless
jumble into which returned cohentingenters’ pay-
sheets have become involved. A small army of
captains and lieutenants, and other titled sun-
dries, who were given billets after arrival, have
been trying to sort out that same chaos for long
weary months. In the meantime many swaddies
have given up all hope of ever being paid, and a
great many of them are serving King Edward in
gaol.
Father Bunbury, the R.C. priest who
suicided in Sydney the other day, had been
silenced ” by his church, and the disgrace,
acting on nerves much shaken by alcohol, drove
)li ra over the border. He was one of three priests
(Father Timony, since dead, was another) who
some years ago were suspended by Cardinal Moran
for certain irregularities. They were going to
make a public grievance, and made state-
ments to several newspapers, then thought better
of it, and. the trouble was arranged in some way.
Those priests blessed the discretion of the news-
papers most profoundly when they found that
their excited yarns had been ignored.


1 FACILE PRINCEPS. j | SEMPER IDEM. |
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S.,
DENTAL SURGEON, 43 Oxford-st., Byd'nW
(between Mark Foy’s and Riley-st.)- HIGH"
DENTISTRY at lowest prices. Guaranteed absolutely'painless extractions by latest American system
success. Beautiful and perfect-fitting atmospheric suction sets ot American teeth, giving the wear
comfort and natural appearance. Coraline gum plates, without springs or wires. Elastic Gum “°. ra ‘ ln na t ura l
most recent, up-to-date plate for mounting teeth. Ail wrinkles and hollow cheeks disappear. It is s' .
that it defies detection. For comfort, strength and lightness it surpasses everything previouslyy r ■
Coraline is perfectly tasteless, and remains wholesome and pure. Badly fitting plates remodelied onit 1g
system. Up-to-date gold crowns. Call and see specimens of latest methods. Upper and lower sets troin
Single teeth from ss. Teeth filled, scaled and bleached. Country visitors fitted in one day if required.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Reschs Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
To Coxntmmms. —In the ease of ethnological and
natural history items , etc,, always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
Before Griffith’s “ cast iron ” regulation of
the Queensland Kanaka traffic *he niggers were
frequently worked until they
dropped from
sheer ex-
haustion.
Then
they
were
buried
by _
their
coun-
try-
men
with-
out
unne-
cessary
fuss in a
hole (on a fal-
lowed field) not
too deep so
that even in
death ‘shey
would tnake
profits for “ mas-
ter. ’ In those pood
old days many N.Q.
sugar mills only worked
one shift of laborers
from 3 a.m. till 7 p m.
without a break even for
meals, the boys taking
light refreshments a few
sweet potatoes or a handful of boiled rice—
as they worked. The wages (!) were £6 per
annum with food and clothing that came to about
another £2O a year at an extravagant valuation.
Most of the murderous old slave-drivers of these
days are now much shocked at the Federal
Government’s “tyranny” in arranging for the
deportation of the Kanaka.
« • •
“ E. 0.5.” writes :
Quite recently I visited the Northumberland (N.S.W )
electorate and came across a rather interesting family.
It comprised mother, father and 18 children—eleven sons
and seven daughters. Nine of them are married. Of the
11 sons only one smokes ; the remainder, including the
father, neither smoke nor drink. They reside within a
stone’s throw of the home of their birth. One daughter
is already the mother of U children ; she with her sisters
having married at IS. Thus they follow in the footsteps of
their parents, who were married at the ages of 18 and 19
respectively. Adjacent to the family property is a pretty
little church, about 60 or 70 years old, substantially
built of stone, in which the mother of this family was.
christened and married, and has had all her children
baptised. In the little graveyard surrounding the chapel
her father already lies. Ten sons and the father recently
played a cricket match against a local team and won
easily. Now, who says Australia is degenerating ?
• • • •
Three Queenslanders one night lugged a
fishing net across country to the Condamine River,
where fish were plentiful. They chose a narrow
spot, and, having no boat, one had to swim across
with one end of the net, swimming back with it
whenever it was desired to lift it. They spent
the whole night without luck, but made a cheerful
picnic of it on the bank. When morning dawned
they found, instead of their net spanning the
Condamine, they had stretched it across a billa-
bong, in which recent rains had put about 4ft. of
water. The river was a hundred yards further
on.
“ Mullock-Puncher ” : On old Fiery Creek
some time after the rush, the present writer and
three mates were working some ground on the
BOft. lead, and about half-a-mile off in some shallow
ground two oldish Germans were toiling. On
Saturdays they would be at the store selling their
two or three dwts. They looked half-starved and
had to tie their clothes on them. We showed
them where they could do better, but as they did
not make any shift we styled them the da ft
Germans.” One day they borrowed a hammer and
gad from us, saying they had a bit of cement. As
they did not return the tools a couple of us went
over to their hut in the evening. They were
away, and as the tools were not about, we went
down the rope, the hole being only about
We struck a light and went to the face, and there,
in a gutter about 3ft. wide, was a regular jeweller s
shop ! We took a few specks just to drink thei*
health with and, as we found they had worked
just up to their pegs, we pegged off four men s
ground ahead and went home. By sunrise we had
bottomed a hole, and, when the Germans came
out of their hut, rubbing their eyes, they came
over to us and said, “Veil, de gaff is blown . ve
now go home to faderland mit zeven tousand
boundts each.” We found out afterwards that
they had been selling parcels of gold m different
towns round about. We got upwards of
but it did not go many feet before it petered out.
The two stolid old men with their clothes tied on
them with string had scooped all the pool there
was. . ,
• • • *
“H.C.”: Extract from the N. S. W.
official records. It is portion of a letter from
Gov. Phillip to Lord Sydney, dated heb. <*Bth,
1787, giving “ views on the conduct of the
expedition and the treatment of convicts :
Rewarding and punishing the convicts must be left
to the Governor ; he will be answerable for his conduct,
and death I should think will never be necessary— m
fact, I doubt if the fear of death ever prevented a man
of no principle from Committing a bad action. There
are two crimes that would merit death murder and
For either of these crimes I would wish to
confine the criminal till an opportunity offered of
delivering him as a prisoner to the natives of New
Zealand and let them eat him. The dread of this will
operate much stronger than the fear of death.
There is no evidence to show whether Phillip*
beautifully original plan was ever put in force.
• * • •
“ Duffer ” : My tanks are alive with frogs,
and, as I don’t like to kill them, I put them in a
big tin, with a lid to it, and take them away. 1
have taken them fully a mite to a waterhole, but
in a few days they were all back again. I have
thrown them into the sea, but they find their way
back. lam waiting until meat becomes unpro-
curable, then the croakers may come in handy.
* • * *
“The Count”: While visiting a duck-
farm up Parramatta way, last week, was very
much struck by the demeanor of a kelpie dog
that was enclosed as a compulsory arbitrator in
the yard where the breeding birds are. _ Every
time the drakes came to hot words (which was
often) kelpie would calmly walk over and separate
the belligerents, then go back and lie in his
corner as before. Owner said that he has never
had a disabled duck since this method of compul-
sory arbitration was introduced. Formerly, when
difficulties were settled by the strike prooess, the
mortality was very heavy.
LIFE IN DEATH .
FARMER OATES: “Sad about poor old Speargrass
dyin'”
GBOGAN : “ Yes, poor chap; but it was ’bout time
something happened to stir things up a bit
’ere. Why, we ain’t had no life in the town-
ship since the grocer chap drovmded hisself in
the dam two years ago, ’ceptin’ when old man
Murphy killed his pig about three month
back.”
A true picture of the Irvine Government’s
management of tilings:
The condition of many families on the Waranga Basin
contract (Victoria) is pitiable. This contract, which was
expected to give employment to many laborers, besides
helping farmers to tide over the coming winter by pro-
viding work for themselves and teams, is being carried on
in a dawdling, tinpot fashion. During the last month
those men who were fortunate enough to be employed by
the contractor only got 10 days’ work, averaging £1 6s.
Bd. per week for man and team, while horse-feed costs £1
28. 6d. of that. They are expected to go from the camp
to the works, a distance of one mile and a half, every day,
to see if they will be required. The stores that opened
at the Basin are closing down. There are over 600
souls in camp, and, if the Government doesn't stick a
hat-pin pretty deeply into the contractor, and that at
once, God help the camp during the next few months.
There is a rumor abroad that the contractor is endeavor-
ing to coax the Government to allow him to close down
the works for the winter. On Riley’s big auxiliary con-
tract, a similar state of affairs exists. If only we had a
Government with a penn’orth of energy, instead of a fat
man who only yells and a pallid, bloodless, thin man who
plays the Sphinx I
ASSORTED DRINKS.
B UNG: “ Watcher ’avin ’? Same
as Billy wot thinks he’s the
Emperor of China, or
Sandy, wot’s fightin ’ Yaller Mick on ther
verandah, or Scotty, wot’s fishin for halli-
gators in a bucket?”
BENDEE (in for a “bust”): “Better mix em,
boss.”
Copy of letter sent to Bent by alleged
prospective blackleg:
Mister Bent Esquire
Boss of the Raleways and Creashun
I want a billet as injun-driver on Raleways at dubble
pay and for ever I am fit for the posishun becos of 10
diffurunt cawses . , .
(1) I am loyal and beleve all the Argus and Age ses
(2) I beleve thinking is a luggshery that shoud be
indulged in onley by thows who can afford it
(3) I am the son of a poor cocky and I have often envyd
blokes who get reggler pay
(4) I doant want a voat. I want a billut. Voats won t
get yer ennvthing but trubble.
(5) I kno ail the parts of an injun from the bawl-bear-
ings to the crow-catcher The latter is use to keep crows
off the line in starvin-stok time. .
(6) I doant giv a dam how slow an injun goes. I m
used to goin slo. .
(7) 1 doant care if a injun bios up. It ed take moar
than that to shift me.
(8) I can stand abews. I’ve had 25 yeers egspeerence
in that branch of the bizness. 1 live with nn ole man.
All the wagges he gives me is in the Incum-tax payper as
a seduction. I never see it anywear else.
(9) I kno the road to Melburne. Ennyhow if I got off
the track any cocky would sho me. I’m pretty good in
(10) lam religus. I beleeve Ood made this playce and
put Tommy Bent in charge, wile he was away.
V If these ten cawses doant get me a billut I have ten
moar just as good. I aint much at ritin so 111 stop. Bet
me kno by next trane I’ll have me duds ready
, Yures truely
Ims Blodb
• * • *
Brisbane Courier quotes with huge im-
pressiveness the London Daily Mail to the effect
that “ 9o great has been the fear (on the part of
returning Kanakas) of being murdered and eaten
on their arrival in the islands that there are fully
authenticated cases of mothers throwing their
children overboard on the voyage to. avoid what
they believed to be a worse fate in store for
them.” Strange that a leading Queensland pro-
Kanaka journal should need to go to a British
daily for a sensational item of this kind 1 Not
even the wildest Kanakaphile rag in Queensland
has ever printed such a fable, and the Daily Mail
has the nerve to talk about “ fully authenticated.”
Will that organ name the authenticators ?
• • • *
“Bunny”: Broken Hill folk get angry
when one suggests that they are sarcastic. Yet,
when they turn horses and ponies into paddocks
full of sand and rocks, but bare of vegetation save
a little stunted, shrivelled saltbush, they say that
“they have put their mokes out to grass.” Force
of old-time associations probably.
* • • •
“ A.J.8.” : Travelling once in Lake Way
(W.A.) district I inquired of a stranger the where-
abouts of a prospector in that locality. He did
not know him by name, and asked “What
sort of a gin has he got ?” I replied that he
kept none. Then said he—“ Well, him 1 i
I don’t want to know him. No use for a man
out-back unless he keeps a blaok gin.” By >
his gin ye shall know him !
About aboriginal ’possum-hunting, thus
“E.S.S.” (Richmond River) :
We mostly camped a night on the tablelands when
mustering. Once I reached camp a couple of hours
before sundown with the blackfellow, Towyan. While
waiting for the others to come in we did some 'possum-
hunting along a mountain gully. The plan was to look
for claw-marked trees, and then ascertain if a ’possum
had been regularly up and down it by the different ages
Of the claw-tracks. A blackfellow doesn’t climb to look ;
he is sure of his quarry ere he leaves the ground. A
pliable vine was obtained in the scrub, which Towyan
tested by bending it at intervals all along its length with
his thumbs. He next ran it twice through the hot ashes
to toughen it. Then, stripping stark-naked, he went
rapidly up the tree, holding the vine in one hand whilst
he cut “toe-holds” on alternate sides with the other.
Having located the ‘possum by tapping, Towyan cut a
small hole, and drawing the animal out by the tail, hit
it against the tree trunk and dropped it. The black said
no more ’possums would go into a tree that a blackfellow
had once climbed. The intestines of the animal were at
once removed, and the opening pinned up with a wooden
skewer. The heart and kidneys are always left in, and
the liver is eaten raw ; the aborigine swears by it as an
medicine.
“ F.” : Working for a cockie once, I
wondered what was the use of several long poles
leaning uo against the men’s hut. Inquired—and
took my departure when informed that they were
used for prodding the darkness to locate the exact
whereabouts of the plough-horse# in the early
morning hours.
• • • •
“Jim Pan”: Menindie is a depressing
place. The sand gets into everything. Even
the “chain-lightning” and “strike-me-silly ”
imitations of brandy, whisky, and rum contain
more sand than bluestone. I left my boots
outside my bedroom door on retiring. In the
morning the groom had* to dig them out of
five feet of sand that had accumulated during
the night. There is no butcher.
Stations will not supply beef, be-
cause they have no cattle. Beef
has to be brought per coach from
Broken Hill, 75 miles away. Coach
runs twice a week. When beef
gets high (and it does get elevated),
it is calmly washed in Condy’s
Fluid, which is said to remove
the taint. In the good old
days, two decades ago, Menindie
was a place of luxury. Rab-
biters used to drive up in
four-in-hands, drink cham-
pagne, light pipes with fivers,
and smoke shilling cigars.
Bunny was then a goldmine.
Fifty convictions for sup-
plying opium to blaoks were
recorded in North Queensland
during last year. Four of the
offenders were Malays and Cingal-
ese ; the other 46 all Chinese. There
must be huge profits in the business. On June7th
Ah Hock was fined £25 at Bowen for this offence ;
on June 20th the same Celestial was fined £3O 9s. 6d.
On September 23rd Tommy Ah See received a
term of six months’ imprisonment for thus offend-
ing, and this was Tommy’s ninth conviction.
There are worthy people in Bayianaland denouncing
the Federal Government for its action re Kanakas
and Asiatic aliens while Queensland papers simply
teem with records of Kanaka crime, Japanese and
Hindu vice, and Chinese chicanery.
■ • • •
“ Rain-making,” in the sense of the arti-
ficially-produced precipitation of atmospheric
moisture, will probably be a commonplace of
science in the near future, but it does not seem
reasonable to hope that there will ever be a
method discovered of precipitating moisture
which isn’t there : and that’s the trouble usually
in the dry districts of Australia.
• • » •
“ Malle ” : Travelling out-back we pulled
up at a pub. kept by a lady from Galway, against
whose virulent chain-lightning the driver had
warned me. I ordered whisky, though the driver,
who had hop-bitters and lemonade, nearly lapped
his left eyebrow over his nose in protest. Talking
genially, I took a nip which blistered my tongue,
smacked my lips, and asked what was the brand.
I said that I’d advise Brown (who kept a pub. 30
miles away and sold very fair grog) to get some,
for the last wet I had at Brown’s nearly poisoned
me. Then the old girl brightened up, threw out
the contents of my glass, and said derisively to
Jehu : “ See there now, the jintleman knows good
fwhisky whin he gets it. Now I’ll give him a
drop the like of it he won’t get for many a day.”
She rummaged out a bottle from somewhere,
drew the cork, and poured me out a generous
nobbier. My companion’s suggestion that he’d
try a drop was met scornfully with—“’Deed and
yez won’t thry no drop; the rotgut yez are dhrink-
mg is good enough fer the loikes of yez.” Several
travellers have since tried the same dodge, but it
never worked again.
• * • •
“ Frank M. ’ : Re the color of rabbits. I
remember that in the ’6o’s there was, in a big
turn-out of variously-colored hutch rabbits, not a
patch of brown amongst them. Yet, ten years
later, the progeny—millions of them —were of the
STREET CHARITY.
PARSON: “My poor man, I'm sorry to see you
wasting your hard-earned wages in drink.
MUFFLED VOICE FROM THE DITCH: "Wasn't
hard-earned —cadged in the street!"
uniform “ wild ” brown. A cast-back to
domesticated irregularity of color is, m
perience, as rare as the occurrence of the a
our marsupials. , * »
A Hindu recently left a small parcel at a
store in Port Douglas (N.Q.). The storekeeper
being curious opened it, and found it to
the teeth of a brother who had just died.
RAIN SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(With mental reservations in case the drought hasn't
broken up after all.)
There is music in the Mallee,
Lilting music, soft and low,
Like the songs in vale and valley
, Where the summer waters flow ;
But an anthem of elation
Wedded to a woman’s mouth
Is the message from each station
From the Mitchell River south.
For it’s raining 1 raining ! raining 1
How the iron roof-tops ring 1
How the waters, swiftly draining,
Through the straining downpipes sing !
Every drop a golden rhyme is,
Every shower a stanza strong,
And each day of raining time is
Canto sweet of God’s great song.
Oh, the earth was dry as tinder,
And her lips were cracked with p*in 1
From the south to Thargomindah
Like a dead thing she had lain ;
But, at last, the long drought broken
She—like Lazarus, the Jew,
When the Christ words had beer, spoken—
She shall leap to life a-new.
For it’s raining 1 raining ! raining !
Don’t you hear the merry din ?
Don’t you hear the old earth straining
As she sucks the juices in?
And the swelling creeks and rivers—
Hark 1 their mellow madrigal !
Oh, the sweetest music-givers
Are the autumn rains that fall 1
Oh ! the air is sweet with voices,
Sweet with human voices now ;
And the anvil-tool rejoices
On the plough-share and the plough ;
Yea, above the joyous beating
Of the roof-bass you can hear
All the choirs of Nature meeting
In an anthem loud and clear.
For it’s raining, raining, raining,
Over all the thirsty land 1
Don’t you hear the old earth straining
As the sapless roots expand ?
But her tamine-days are over,
And her smiles shall soon be seen,
For her old-time Autumn lover
Brings her back her garb of green.
MILKY WHITH.


Memo, received at a N.S.W. country post-
office from a local J.P.:
Pleas sende my leters out in the louse (loose f) bag.
“One of the God-send? ‘Out back’ is a good
reliable mouth organ, Dave, and the various
M‘Cooeys can now get something to last them.”
Allan’s, the Melbourne music people, are agents
for a new “Cast Iron Stayer,” called the “Crack-
ajack” mouth organ. They are made in four
sizes—No. 1, the “Crackajack Professional,” 40
reeds, at 4s. 6d.; “Crackajack Senior,” 20 reeds,
2s. 6d. ; “Crackajack Junior,” Is. 6d. ; and the
“ Boss Cracker,” the best knockabout shilling
organ on the market. Stamps sent to Allan’s,
Collins-street, Melbourne, will land one at any
post town in the States.*
“ Felo de Se, ” which, we’ve been told,
Is meant for suicide,
Applies to Jones, who caught a cold,
Neglected it, and died ;
Carelessness won’t make old bones,
Nor health to us secure.
When you’ve a cold, don’t follow Jones —•
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
A Drink! A Tonic ! A Medicine !
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call for WOLFE’S Schnapps and make sure that
you take nothing else.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS,
W.W.S.: Declined San Remo: Yes, later on per-
haps ; but our heart is tender to that politician now, for
he shows as a man in spite of all the Owe... .R.J.T.:
Eight sketches received, though for what possible reason
they were sent we can’t imagine... .Hal B. : Not nearly
good enough. May possibly use one as suggestion....
Ivea: Unsuitable First Attempt: Drawing bad;
joke worse D.U.B. : Sketches no good ; jokes of little
account A.H.8.: Not nearly good enough yet....
Etita : One may do as suggestion.
Gold Alberts.
Made in Australia.
Made of Australian Gold.
Made by an Australian Firm.
Made with an Exquisite Finish.
Made by Expert Chain Makers.
There i's 27 per cent, duty on
imported Alberts.
Ws have some that came in
before the duty impositions.
They are at Freetrade Prices.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Casii
Solid 15ct. Doubt* Albert*, £4 4s. to £lO 10s.
All our Alberts are made from Solid Wires. They last a lifetime.
. . . They are all marked at London Prices. . . .
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, The ou t‘ s J Zt' ry M ”“"
23 HUNTER STREET.
“ Vul. ”
writes :
Attended an
address on
“The New
Hebrides," by
the Rev. B.
A. Robertson
(author of
“ Eromanga,
or the Martyr
Isle ”) in Syd-
ney, recently,
and, amongst
other things,
heard some-
thing oii the
question of
the deporta-
tion of Kan-
akas. The lec-
turer (who
ought to know
what he is
talking of,
seeing he has
worked as a
missionary in
the Pacific is-
lands for over
39 years), re-
ferring parti-
cularly to the
wild asser-
tions of one
Captain Ra-
son, flatly and
uncondition-
ally contra-
dicted that
p e r s o n’s
“whopper” to
the effect that
gentle Tommy
Tanna would
be straight-
way slain and
scoffed by his
loving rela-
tives and
friends as soon
as he was re-
turned to his
native land by
the Australian
Government.
There wasn’t
the least fear
of Tommy
being thus
disposed of,
the lecturer
said; he might
individually
or collectively
land any-
where at any
time.andeven
form separate
communities,
if he so wish-
ed, without
his country-
men interfer-
ing in the
least. Of
course, this
was well known before ; still, a straight-out statement
like the above from a man who has spent a lifetime
in the islands, will do much to intensify the public’s
very tired feeling at the untruthful bathos of the Kanaka
crowd.
A vigorous letter from Brisbane :
On a recent morning, the gardener at the Supreme
Court, Brisbane, unearthed a baby black snake, about
Sin. long, in some leafy debris. Several, including the
snake-reporters of the local levers, viewed the innocent-
looking little stranger. That snake was boomed into a
venomous, death-dealing reptile, 2ft. Sin. long, by the
time the last editions were shot out on the public in the
afternoon. Then, like manna in the night, the Victorian
strike happened along almost on the tail of that small
but handy reptile ; since which time large, full-fanged,
cold-blooded Ananias has reigned supreme, and hasn’t
blown a truthful breath down to date in any of the
servile rags. What with vilifying Kingston during his run
along the coast, lauding that alleged Freetrade Stomach-
ache Reid and his mission to the Flyspeck, blatantly
asserting that Bent is a tall, slender man of the gentlest
manners, and the jumble of daily common-garden pre-
varications, the Brisbane parson-rigged, lie-spreading
press has had a good time. And that snake, which might
by this time have been a boa-constrictor that* coiled it-
self twice round the Supreme Court if it hadn’t been
interrupted, has dropped out of sight.
• • • •
A (flying) fish yarn :
The skipper and mate of a barque I was in were always
at loggerheads. We were bound from Rockingham to
Port Pirie, and one night in the middle watch I was at
the wheel, when the skipper came on deck, and began
abusing the mate. The mate resented this, and the
air was beooming lurid, when, like a streak of
lightning, a flying-fish skimmed over the quarter,
and smote the skipper fair in the eye. The ‘ old
man” promptly “landed” the mate one in Aw
eye. Then at it they went, hammer-and-tongs.
I picked up the fish and put it in my pocket, as its
evidence might be required later on. 1 could see the
mate was too smart for the captain, being a much
younger man, and at my suggestion the fight was dis-
continued. /.
“ But what did you go and bash me in the eye like that
for?” the skipper demanded, as he regained his wind.
“ I didn’t hit you till you hit me,” the mate replied.
“That be damned ! ’’ said the old man ; “ you punched
me before ever I touched you.”
“ No, sir,” I said ; “ you struck the first blow. then
I brought out the fish which had started the fight.
GREAT MUSICIAN — THE IDOL OF ALL THE WOMEN AND
THE ENVY OF ALL THE MEN.
The facts of “L.YV.”
Recently a woman at Yass (N.S. W.J, hearing that Tabby
ha'd increased the feline population the previous day,
hurried down the garden with the family to inspect the
new arrivals. She picked up the kittens one by one,
looked at them, and then dropped them into the fold of
her apron, while Tabby, with the tail of vanity elevated,
purred and rubbed round her feet. Suddenly the woman
dropped a stream of kittens and went reeling down the
path as though struck by one of Bent’s conciliatory
speeches. Shortly afterwards she fainted, and was put
to bed, and the household went out to find the snake, but
found instead that one of the kittens had two faces : one
on each side of its head, each face having eyes, mouth
and nostrils complete. A peculiar feature of the animal
was that, when the mouth on the right side of its bead
mewed, the one on the left side repeated it exactly two
seconds afterwards, but on no occasion did the left side
of the head ever mew on its own account. Some person
devoid of commercial instinct promptly slipped the little
monster into a bag with half a brick and consigned it to
the river, whence it never returned. In the words of
missioner Geil, “ This air a fac’! ’’
Yass is noted for curious natural freaks, and it was in
that town of poplars that someone set a double-yolked
egg among a clutch, and was astounded to one day see,
contrary to all precedent, two fine robust chicks emerge
from that large shell. They were perfect, but were
fastened together by one toe on each bird. They thrived,
grew up and became great fighters, and those two
roosters could down any other rooster in their yard.
Sometimes only one of the pair wanted to fight, and then
the other fellow had a rough time, and generally got all
the kicks, till he lost his temper and waded in, to end it
on the basis of the family, right or wrong. The funniest
thing was when the double rooster fell out between itself.
The two halves never came to blows, but they would get
as far as possible from one another and make noises which
were presumed by the onlookers to be highly insulting ;
and, as they made them alternately.it really did sound as
though they were indulging in a cuss conversation. They
came to an untimely end in a raid by native cats ; and
there was a gap in the Yass district that could not be
filled. This air also a fac’.
• * • *
“ T. 8.” : Two days before the late heavy
rains on the Lachlan, noticed a strange black
streak on a box tree. Discovered it to be a
crowded cavalcade of common ants, proceeding
from their nest, some 20 yards distant, to a limb
15ft. from the ground, where they entered a hollow.
Not one ant was descending. Have heard this
"sign” mentioned occasionally by old hands.
THE PATCH TIM DOOLAN STRUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘ The only patch Oi iver struck,”
Tim Doolan said to me,
“ Oi sthruck whin Flynn came coortin’ Kate
Beyant in Bungaree.
“ A penniless young scamp was he,
With sneakin’ hatchet-face.
Says I: ‘ I will not have the loikes
Av him about the place ! ’
“ Oi came home from the funeral
Whin Moichael Nolan died,
An’, be the good St. Pathrick, there
Was Micky Flynn inside !
“ ‘ Clare out 1 ’ ses Oi —he didn’t shift;
‘ Get out 1 ’ ses Oi once more, —
Then, as he wouldn’t take the hint,
Oi kicked him through the door !
“ The only patch Oi iver sthruck —
As sure as ants are ants !
Was whin Oi kicked the patch upon
The sate of Micky’s pants ! "
N.S.W.
RIVERINA.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Jio notice (except of a hostile character) mil be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Same and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
H.L.R. : “ Old Schoolmate" represents the art
of saying very little at great length in ragged metre....
W. A. Unionist: The Melbourne Trades Hall has no power
to call any anion out on strike under any circumstances
whatever....Polstan : Many thanks. The description is
exaggerated, yet there is a good deal of truth in it....
R.J.L. : “ Kathleen Mavoumeen ” item has been going
round the papers for a dozen years....W.H.R. : When
did you hear the sailor say that he “ loved the boundless
ocean.” Never knew a sailor who didn’t cuyse the
boundless ocean.... T. Bradshaw : Don’t want crude lies
like that for “ Aboriginalities ” column.... Alone: “ Soul-
work ” not sufficiently soulful.... M*C. : “ Cricket ” good.
“ Eyes ” ruined by false rhymes—“ old ” and “ soul ” ;
" brown ” and “ around,” etc....Beriosity : It was a good
Joke when new—long, long ago.. ..E.E. (Mt. Gambier) :
Poor joke, but honest so far as we know... .Charles Burt •
The Bulletin has been advocating a paper currency on
the Canadian plan for years, has published many articles
on the subject, and included it in the list of reforms
advocated in its pamphlet, “ A Policy for the Common-
wealth” ; (2) but none of the countries you mention has
tried the vapory foolishness of a paper currency based
on “ the latent value of land,” or any such absurdity.
And that’s what you have been talking about....
Adonis: Some of the metaphors will hardly stand in-
spection Jack-a-Clubs : Are you sure you’ve got hold
of the right kind of bush -‘expectancy”?.. ..J. W. :
Decline to “ insert above in our paper.” It has been
published in the stove Honor Bright: Mostly large
wild “01” Iris: The “gay Lothario,” the “gay and
giddy son of Mars,” the “ Sydney fair ones” —do swear off
these banalities....J.R.M.: Don’t want to raise a dis-
cussion on salads T.P.O. : You seem to have a reason-
able capacity for paragraphing, so far as we can judge on
such scant} - material, and a darned bad habit of writing
in dim pencil on bad paper Leonidas: Poor verse....
K. : None quite up to mark. “Twilight” comes
nearest to it B.H.A. : Fantastic, yet feeble.. .Dolly T.:
A faint little chirp about a very large loud subject....
A. : Hopelessly unpoetical... .Salsette : You “give
away the show” too 500n....5t.L.C. : Not enough in it.
Dan W. : It had “ basket ” written on its brow.. .Fingal :
The subject gets you down and dances on you
Chas. H. : Not “story” enough in it....V.A.N: Rather
feeble and conventional.. ..Bombo: It’s got no axis to
revolve upon.. ..Spix : Both well-written, but one is too
vague and inferential, and the other is out of our line
W.T.O. : Bad case of literary anaemia Joel: Construc-
tion too clumsy R.F. (Vic.): Ragged rhymes and
broken-winded metre D. Low: “M'Dougall” very
ordinary verse, not much story, and no climax worth
mentioning .. .H. Newton : Quite ordinary case of mean-
ness Old Hand: Just ordinary—dashed ordinary, in
fact 6xB: But the fact that a “ spieler ” is hard-up
doesn’t prove that he isn’t a clever spieler. The ordinary
clever spieler is debarred by his manners, lack of educa-
tion and his gallows countenance from cleaning out, say,
B. R. Wise or George Turner —they wouldn’t associate
with him. Then many people who don’t mind his man-
ners are warned off by his countenance. You may be a
heavenly swindler with cards, thimble-and-pea, and dozens
of like frauds, but you have to find the man with money
who is willing to play these games, to find him when the
police aren’t about, probably to fight him when he
has lost, and then, when he has set the police after you,
it may be six months before you earn any more money
Warrane : Sorry, but no room for poems about Napo-
leon I. He is dead.. ..Harcus: Please note that Id.
stamp doesn’t carry a letter from Maoriland to Sydney
....J.C.N.: Too flat and fragmentary Bandy: Your
verses are a bit that way 1 Tim W. : You are a des-
perately tedious Timothy! Aura: We fished dili-
gently in your “ Silver Sea,” but never landed an idea.
... .Jorrocks: An awful example of how such a theme
should not be treated Sheet Anchor: Not you!—
you’re only a very small kedge M.S. : Poor in metre
and in fact. The smart jockey who wins or loses as
required doesn't, as a rule, die in the poor-house....
W.J.W.: Where did you gather your history? The first
Edward who reigned in England was “the Elder”;
second was “the Martyr”; third, “the Confessor.”'
Then came the fourth, who is absurdly styled “ Edward
I.” It was the Confessor who proposed to visit the Pope
and who rebuilt Westminster Abbey.. ..John R. : Don’t
want to hear about your nude relatives S.Z. : No
space for "epigram.” Y. Bachgren : Metre varies in
16 different ways and directions—M.R. : Gag is stale....
B. Bill : Justification for a par., and you send Jcol
The Laird : Poor porridge C.O. : Too rough a stone to
throw at him.. ..S.B. : Doesn’t it, in effect, amount to
this : that the Q. Labor party is getting more sense and
more practical knowledge—a tendency to be encouraged
rather than condemned 7.... J. Me. : We take no interest
in acrostics as acrostics. Yours are of the quiet,
domestic kind suitable for a young ladies’ paper
Cynic : Lacks originality Patrick C. : Some promise.
....N. : You think that the civil servant should be like
the old actor, who steps to a lower position and screw
L. : “ Sin ”is (1) obscene to the degree of folly, (2) is a,
straight-out crib, as regards its garnishings. from Zola's
“ Abb6 Mouret.” Ivan P. S. : Too rough in the versing.
....Sorrento: Would be dangerous to print without
proof C.O. : Looking up verses. Yarn about Connie
interesting, but possibly libellous, and we’ve no wish to
libel a peeress ; our admiration for peers is small, but of
peeresses large. Can you send along confirmation ?....
E. A. Swift : What were the men’s claims that were
“ out of the question ” ? Simply that affiliation with the
Trades Hail, which had been held for 16 years to be law-
ful, should still be so considered until Parliament made it
unlawful. And Bent’s claim was that he was Parlia-
ment Jabberwock : It was his son’s portrait
C. :“ Ordinary Girl” too much poodle and notv
enough human interest. One good item in collection.
....Cygnet: “Lynch’’merely gory record of uninteresting-
crime Beechmas : Sorry, but if we acknowledged every
par received, correspondence would fill 10 columns....
Quambi : Great lack of literary skill Darthnor r
“Theologians in a Padded Cell” too stragglesome
Owl-Light: Some descriptive power, but you can’t spell,
and your syntax is shaky Rob. J. : Much glitter, but
no gold ... ’Hugo :No use for such a thing Rev. A. C. :
Thanks; but it’s too prosy and long-winded T.W.
(W.A.): Yes ; but you're striking when the iron is cold.
Amelia B.: Verses too inferior for print Roma: Not
smartly enough put together.. ..A.8.T.: Neatly told,
but theme too hackneyed Kerosene: No interest
without the names, to use which would be risky.
Australia and Australians in England.
Mr. B. R. Wise returned to Australia from Eng-
land, the other day, scintillant, enthusiastic. He
finds, perhaps more than any other Australian
publio man, a mental refreshment in England,
because he sees a side of it not always
open to or sought by the average banqueteering,
be-knighted elected person from this end of the
world. What struck Mr. Wise most strongly on
this trip to England was the present importance
of being an Australian. “In all ranks and in all
schools of politics there is a general awakening to
an appreciation of ‘ the Colonies. What may be
called the sentiment of Imperial unity is now the
one inspiring ideal of the English statesman. I
distinguish it from Imperialism in the Jingo sense ;
it is not a desire for more territory, or for materia
gain, or for closer law bonds, but a theory of
civilisation and liberty and justice being best pro-
moted by a closer intellectual and sentimental
union among the English speaking people. When
I’ve been in England before, ‘ the colonies ’ were
regarded with indifference or contempt. Now,
around the people outside the boundaries of
Britain, who are yet British, seem to cluster the
highest aspirations of English public men.
“ Australians who have settled in England "have
contributed something to this ; and the London
press a great deal. L. J. Brient, ex-editor of the
Sydney D.T., is now doing splendid work on the
London Daily Chronicle, and keeping Australia
well to the fore. That paper and the Morning
Post (which publishes an admirable review of
Australian politics every week) do much to
educate English public opinion on Australian
matters. Earl Beauchamp, too, is always a good
friend to Australia. He is now a member of the
Liberal party, by the way. While I was in
London, I put him up at the Eighty Club.
“Yes, I saw many Australians. Miss Flor-
ence Schmidt is doing very well. Her husband,
Mr. Derwent Wood—now, I suppose, an Australian
by adoption—is one of the coming sculptors in
London. Miss Marie Narelle’s success with Irish
ballads has been phenomenal, and her position is
assured. Mrs. Creed (Louise Mack) is another
successful Australian. I saw Lambert; his work
has immensely improved in strength, out it shows
a transition stage just now. One misses the
freedom and spontaneity of ‘The Black Soil
Plains.’ He’s engaged on portrait work
chiefly. Streeton seems to have, for a long
time, made the mistake of sticking too much
to London, where there are not the ‘distances’
that he revels in. But I think he has now ‘found
himself.’ He ought to paint in such places as
the Malvern Hills, where there is some stretch of
view. The English landscape, as a rule, is small
and patchy one might say ‘bitty.’ Alice
Hollander has been singing with Patti, who was
pleased with her style, and inquired as to where
she had learned the old Italian method of singing.
Bethune is teaching in London, and doing well.”
“ And the millionaires who own England, Mr.
Wise ? Did you meet any of them ? ”
“ Ah, the millionaires ! The dominance of the
millionaire —Jew or otherwise —in England is
ra'ther a newspaper figment than an actual fact.
London does attract men of money, and their
money does attract notice. They get into the
newspapers, but they don’t get into society in the
Teal sense, and they don’t run the country. You’d
think from the newspapers that the vulgar adver-
tising rich dominated affairs. It’s not so. They
flash their money about and get good advertise-
ment for it; and have titled people of a sort to
eat their magnificent food. But that’s all. The
people ignore them.
“ I heard a yarn of one of the bounding million-
aires—one who had some sense as well as bounce.
The woman he was speaking with at some society
affair or other upbraided him. ‘ How rude you
are!’ ‘No,’he said, ‘l’m not rude ; I’m rich.’
“An Australian in England feels himself a
citizen of no mean country,” Mr. Wise repeated,
and left England at that—a country which ap-
preciates Australians and does not over-appreciate
millionaires. Perhaps, Mr. Wise forgot the
millionaries who are of the people—the great
landholders who amass enormous wealth from
land monopoly. But, then, he was not talking
politics but personalities.
F.R.
INFRA DIG.
OLD GIRL (to dosser, whose tobacco isn’t the
siveetest): “Smoking in public places ought
to be stopped. You ought to know it is bad
manners to smoke before ladies.”
DOSSER: “An’ you ought to know it's bad
manners to speak to a gent unless yer intro-
duced."


A LATTER-DAY DEMOSTHENES.
Bruce Smith lectures suburban youth upon “ Eloquence and Oratory.” recom-
mends practising on the sea-shore with one’s mouth filled with pebbles %
strengthening the voice, or, better still, addressing Women’s Reform League
meetings.
Ha ! A RIVAL at last '
n is reported that the Prime Minister beguiles bis waking
moments by drawing pen-and-ink caricatures.
THE RELATIVE SIZES OF THINGS
*?*■.. «? rs s !“ bu, * r ob >« <»«* «
<* its relative importance Over 17 000 Svdnl due re & ard
* - *
in a paddock ! b
A remarkable story comes from France a
voung Pari. lan palntei. who is aisu ,or, e
spondem of the ‘Pall Mall Gazette.’ s.atinc
.hto^i f ‘sM.o“r w Berher> «■****’■ *»? ‘eft
Three more plague-infected mice have been found »o
Suasex-street.
“ Three plague mice ;
See how they run ! ”
Ist Citjzen. “ What do you of
that yarn about Harold Barker, of Syd-
ney, and the Parisian painter?"
2nd Citizen "Don't believe it. If
there had ever been X), 500,000 in
Sydney, yau can bet that Owe Sullivan
would have borrowed it to carry on
Necessary Reproductive Works!
CON V ALESOENT.
cuSm h umpteen on P& f ** pictUres ' The
for tu mk. " 11 back are the various remedies
-^ lUpatiietic ***“& eith^
A LOOK ROUND.


vr.
Strike - >»' A S‘)
my «n
fa
20 *
RAILWAY SITUATION
WHEELS RUNNING SMOOTHLY
GOODS SERVICE IMPROVED.
RAILWAY COLLISION.
AT HAWTHORN STATION-
GUARD TERRIBLY INJURED
mi OFFICIAL REPORT.
If A - BUBS? GAUGE PIPE
V — , oulc^r : 3|* . < k : _ ;FKS p .
HovKc w\h • " Hof »n
"Wf7X IS %*re
gv'.oVtbn ? ‘ ,1.
£ oi o -fljc • St‘riKe l »»T«K|..
■dgs Joljn Kin^C^r^
' (-To Irvine) : We contractu l*fe
you on finding »n
/yjs'TteJi* m '^° 3 'f oy e 01,c 7
we 'fSo-Strong
Urnr*z&' <, ,
I e Tf t
\orj
gWen yow— one &^un-one Vote. & white A u s^*^ 1 ‘ c
,' ; Customs —£v - •*■'' ■ ’
y yVf|| — '^• y° w . S?* I
|,\ enjoy of 'tffeje fill jfou °ff *7 e • \\
See, aWT one milt •"
ovcf *f« S*>« *
*R* Cirtsl^ a “ * *s r *'’ , s w " r
k of tfie loc*l *S' a « nf S
i isrfs *« kr^t
l fcderal
f '.— If I donf
wiitf Qotjciiiaction B>H "’ll)?i'€ II
r
VICTORIAN DOINGS.


A. SAUNDERS, SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER.
/
s
A. SAUNDERS. -rvf a
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVERS,
Full Jewelled, J-plate,
£2 10s, £3, £3, 10s. £4, and £4 10s.
In Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s,
10 guineas, £l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
St
A. SAUNDERS.
Three-bar Gold Buckle BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two-bar Floral, with Diamond, Blue, or Red
Stone, BROOCH, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Twist Bar, with Bow and Heart, Gold BROOCH,
(5s Gd ; with Amethyst Heart, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Carved Gold BROOCH, with Opal Centre, 20s.
Ladies’ Curb CHAIIO
Gold Snap Padlock, 255,
80s, 85s, £2 ss, £8 ; 15ct.,
£2los, £3, £4, £4 10s, £5,
£6, £7 10s, £B, £lO.
10s extra
for
Key Padlock.
All With Safety Chain.
Diamond BRACELET, 15 carat Gold, Three Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
with Safety Chain, £5 ; Diamond and Two Rubies, £4.
Peace-offering Bird Dub BROOCHES, with Enamelled Olive Leaf,
17s 6d ; 15 carat Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Pretty Gold BRACELET, Diamond, Red, or Blue Stones,
£2 10s ; 15ct. Gold, £4, £5.
. ...
1
~-n
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS. All the Styles. Prices according
to width. 2os, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ; 15ct. Gold,
£3, £4, £5, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Band Name BRACELET, in Three Sizes, 255, 30s, as
above, and 40s wider ; 15ct Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two Heart Amethyst and Loye Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
Tin
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Two Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut,
BROOCH, £2 ; with Ruby, 35a.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Diamond Cut Amethyst
BROOCH, 20s.
Mm.
tami
A. SAUNDERS.
Large Size Three Bar Amethyst BROOCH,
25s ; 15 Carat Gold, Amethyst, 455.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Pearl Set Twin Dove Birds,
BROOCH, Red Stone Centre, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two Bar Opal and Four Diamond
BROOCH, £2 10s. Very Effective.
Sil-
ver,
A. SAUNDERS.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed. Silver Hunting Keyless,
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3. Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, U,
£5: Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
Qm
FULL SIZE
A. SAUNDERS.
Three Bar Solid Gold Pearl and Red Stone Scroll
BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Battleaxe and Shield BROOCH, Very Neat and
Effective, Pearl Set with Gem, 20s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mounted Tusk BROOCH. Chain and Bell,
15s 3d. Very Effeotive.
Gold
M.
Key, (
£3 los.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cj,p, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with
VmoSilver Cases, Dust and Water Tight £3
10s.
Extra duality, with Chronometer Balance
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 :
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 3, 4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Keyless,
£5-
Free-
trade
Prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong Reliable WATERBURY WATCHES.
Long Wind, 8s 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model. G., 13s 6d ;
Extra Quality, f-plate, 18s 6d and £l.
Silver, 85s ;
Gold. £2 16s.
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
No
Ad-
vance
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Can s,
dust and water tight, 20s.
Solid Silver, 35s ; Double Case, £2.
A Written Guarantee Given with Each
Watch.
20s.
Black or
Nickel,
£3 10s,
N
"Om
“ FLY BACK CHBONOMETEBS. ’
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel or Black,
Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ; same as above, £3 10s :
Split Seconds, £3 10s. Pure Solid Silver, as above,
£5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £‘2s,
and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4, 5, and 6 years.
, TBY ONE.
£5.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4. and £5 ;
Gold Patent Oases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO. £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
3,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Gold
Cased,
M 4s-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Goal BAN D
17s 6d ;
Three Opals, 22s 6d ;
lout. Gold. 30s ;
Three Opals, £2.
a. Saunders.
18ot. Gold Pure Double
Cut Diamond,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Three Red
or Blue Stones,
Double Cut, 255.
A. SAUNDERS
Band RINGS.
9et. Solid Gold, 12s 6d,
15s ; 15et. Gold,
20s, 255; 18ct. Gold 255,
308, 355, £2.
Any name free.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Double
Cut Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£3 10s £4, £4 10s ;
Five Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Uold, Pure
Double Cut Diamond,
Pm e Rubies
or Sapphire, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, Two Hearts,.
Diamond and Ruby,
355;
Two Diamonds, £2 ss.
.Latest Style.
Gold Mizpoh
CHARM,
4s 6d.
Pearl Cluster
Heart, 15s 6d;
■with Four ■
Diamond, Ruby,
or Sapphire, 255.
15ot. Gold Heart,
Double Cat
Diamond. 80s, 40s;
Ruby or Sapphire,
255.
Gold Envelope
• CHARM, 12s 6d ;
name free, with slip
inside, 15s 6d.
Good Friendship
Gold CHARM,
10s 6'd ; with Erin-
Go-Bragh, 10s 6d.
Gold Amethyst and
Pearl Heart
CHABM. 10s 6d ;
larger, 15s add 20s.
A. SAUNDERS,
Hand-Made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9ct. Sjlid Goid, 5s 6d, 7s 6d. 10s tid eaoh ;
15ct. Gold, 15s ; Extra Heavy, 25s ; 18et. Gold, 20s ;
Extra Heavy, 30s, 85s, 40s.
Quality of Gold and Finish First Class.
Gent.’s Solid Gold Front STUDS, 8s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
Signet Plain RING, 9et,. Gold,
20s, 255; loot. Gold, 3tis, 35s ;
18ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Hand-Made Solid Gold MUFFS,
9ct. Solid Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4 ;
15ct. Gold, £4 10s. £5. £6, £6 10s,
to £lO. Price According to
Thickness and Quality of Gold.
Pendants
Photo
New Gold Photo. CHARMS,
9 ct. 10s 6d, 15s, 20s ;
15ct.,1556d, 255, 30s, 40s.
Gent.’s 9ct. Solid Gold Amethyst
RING, 25s ;
15ct. Solid Gold, £2, £2 10s.
9ct. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
80s ; 15ct. Gold, £2 10s,
Extra Strong.
9et. Gold Heart J INKS, 12s
6d ; 15et. Gold, 255.
Beautifully Chased 9ct. Gold
Large Size Sleeve LINKS,
22s 6d ; Plain, 2ls; or with
'initials nicely chased, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold £2 ;
Silver, 4s 6d.
18ct. Gold Buckle, Diamond
and Two -Rubies or
Sapphires, £2 10s ;
Three Diamonds, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Diamond Sparks
and Bed Stone,
15ct. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
Four Diamonds,
with Three Rubies,
Sapphires, or Opals,
£3 10s. £4 10s, £5, £6.
Price to Size of
Diamonds.
18ct. Solid Gold
Two Hearts,
Opals, Three Pure
Double Cut
Diamonds, £4los.
Band RINGS,
with Name,
Oct. Solid Gold,
12s 6d, 15s;
15ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ct. Gold, 255, 30s,
355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Half Hoop,
Five Double Cut
Diamonds, RING, £5;
Larger Diamonds,
£6, £7 10s, £B, £lO,
£lO, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold, Pearls and
Turquoise, 15s;
Other Styles, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
:Bct. Solid Gold,
Diamond and Two
.übies or Sapphires,
£2 l°s:
'hree Diamonds, £S.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Double
Buckle. 17» dh i
Isct. Gold, 80s;
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 GEORGE-STREET
( RAILW L 2 J
SYDNEY.


THREE STAR
Nothing but absolute necessity should
justify N.S.W. Crown in sliding District Court
Judges up and down as it does. District Court
Judges are supposed not to be good enough to try
murder cases, but the Crown gets over the diffi-
culty by making them Acting-Justices of the
Supreme Court for the time.
“Via”: The Cheap Importer press of
Australia is endeavoring to prove in a gush of
words that Kingston is unpopular, yet if Kingston
and any of the Freetrade idols were to go to an
Australian vote to-morrow, would any of the
scribes aforesaid bet a week’s screw on the result ?
Up this way (N.Q.) a couple of dozen hungry and
discomfited flannelette merchants pose as repre-
sentatives of the people in this matter.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY
Is a cure for severe colds, persistent coughs,
and a preventive of pneumonia. It is the mother’s
favourite for whooping cough. It always cures,
and cures quickly. Is. fid. *
The borrowing habit produces curious
results. Within the last dozen years Westralia
has attracted nearly 100,000 people from the
Eastern States, and it was so proud of them that
it borrowed £12,000,000 on the strength of this
“increase of population.” The Eastern States
had also borrowed on the strength of these people
before they left. A lot of them will probably
come back when the Golden Mile begins to give
out, and then the Eastern States will doubtless
borrow on the strength of them again. Anyhow,
they have been borrowed on twice already.
Mr. JONATHAN REEVES, Hutchins, Texas,
writes:
««I had an attack of PNEUMONIA— continued to grow
worse until the DOCTORS GAVE ME UP TO DIE.
Then JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT CURED ME.”*
“ Old Cove’s ” opinion :
As it is now managed, “payment of members” is
foolish. Abolish the “ honorarium " idea, decrease the
members by half, and pay them £5OO a year, with £2OOO
each for half-a-dozen Ministers. Then sit for nine months
of the year for four days a week, from 10 a.m. till 5 p.m.,
or later if required, impose fines for absence without
leave. This would not suit the business and legal gentle-
men who now give the community the tail end of their
energy and intellect, nor the various legal, mining, land
ana other agents who get bold advertisement and private
pickings under the present system, but the actual cost to
the State would be less, and the net gain enormous.
Parliament is an elected board of management, and the
business view is to pay that board for its full services.
The man on the Land is always ifi trouble,
but his troubles end when he places his business
in the hands of Land Agent W. N. Willis, of 21
Bligh-street. No results, no fees, is his business
shingle.*
The taking over of British New Guinea
by the Commonwealth will bring to light a
number of claims on land ownership that will
need close inspection. It is certain that some of
them at least will be found to be barefaced grabs.
The Commonwealth Government has effective
precedents to go upon. Two or three large areas
round Port Moresby were claimed years ago by
various parties on the strength of alleged native
grants, but the British Government annulled the
claims. One trader, or company, alleged the
purchase of 600 acres, but this also the British
Government rejected. In 1878 a claim for 15,000
acres inland was made, but Britain once more
refused to recognise the local nigger’s alleged cross
on the transfer. The Commonwealth can’t do
better than follow these precedents.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
Some 15 years ago an enterprising gang
secured a valuable railway concession in Westralia
and floated the Midland Railway Co. It received
a grant of over 3,000,000 acres of land and (having
drunk the last of its scanty capital in a great
champagne jamboree when the first sod was
turned) it also borrowed about £550,000 from
the State. Its land grant has been a bar to settle-
ment ever since it existed; and its rattletrap
railway, which shakes the teeth out of its passen-
gers, has been for years in the hands of its unpaid
debenture holders as bailiffs in possession. Almost
every Tory in the land now calls on the
State to buy up the rusted old cripple, and the
purchase must come soon. When it comes it will
be interesting to find out how much the G.W.
line has cost Westralia from first to last.
OPEN SESAME.—Hunyadi Janos Water is
the “open sesame” of the human organism.
Speedy, sure, and gentle, it fulfils every indication
in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. Indispensable to millions of
human beings beings all over the world.*
Reform legislation always causes friction
during the first days of its administration.
N.S.W. Early Closing Act, when first enforced,
seemingly raised such indignation as to make its
continuance impossible ; now one never hears a
genuine complaint. And it will be the same with
Industrial Arbitration.
Air-ships are the last invention,
They navigate the air.
In future we'll be in suspension
Travelling here to there.
We’ll gaily sail up in the sky,
Till us the clouds immure,
And catch bad colds, but won’t say die,
With Woods' Grbat Peppermint Core.*
In the Far North.
War rumors seem to generally have their origin
in the desire of military governments to give
the people who have to pay crushing taxes some
fun for their money. The peasant is, in a way,
reconciled to great expenditure on militarism
when his fears are aroused, now and again, that
this or that Power means to make war. He feel
like a well-insured man when the fire-bells clai: £
The average war rumor is therefore a matter not
worthy of any serious discussion. It has its
purpose; it serves its purpose ; it is also
the text for numerous and ponderous leading
articles in daily papers, which must fill up
the leader space somehow ; and it dies. But
there does seem to be genuine basis for a
belief that somebody means business in the
Far North just now. Russia and Japan both,
admittedly, want Corea; both look upon it as a
vital possession. Russia’s prospects of establish-
ing her “claims” there looked at one time to be
excellent; but the Anglo- Japanese treaty changed
the situation. Under that treaty Japan and
Russia may have a fight to the death, and Britain
need not interfere. But if Russia is aided by
France, Britain must help Japan. In view of
that, there are some curiously significant signs of
an approaching struggle. Russia is increasing its
China station squadron, and is holding its Black
Sea Volunteer Fleet in readiness for action. Japan
is mobilising its sea forces. Britain is playing the
studious friend to France and seemingly suggesting
that Russia and Japan, if they must fight, had
better fight it out on their own. Other circum-
stances of note are an agitation in Scandinavia
against Russian aggression, a specially severe
Balkan trouble, and a move in Asia Minor by
Britain to help Germany at the expense of Russia.
It looks as though British diplomacy were working
strenuously to ensure that Russia, if it wars with
Japan, shall not only be isolated but shall be
threatened at other points. (British diplomacy is
popularly represented by the British newspapers
as singularly guileless and foolish, but in practical
working it seems generally to have won a fair
share of the stakes when the last card has been
played). If Russia and Japan do come to fighting,
probably the Japanese national vanity will receive
a severe set-back. Japan has never yet met a
Caucasian foe. Russia is certainly the least
European of the European powers, but it is of a
different mettle to China.
What Bent Fights Against.
Trades-Unionism is the one practical bit of
religion to which the worker can turn with hope
in the 20th century. In 1900 years the doctrines
which promised the earth to the meek and lowly,
and cursed the rich and the powerful, have lost
their force ; the meek have waited for 19 cen-
turies to inherit the earth ; and the arrogant have
got it. Christianity, beginning as Communism, is
now the faithful staff of kings and millionaires, and
its professors the certain enemies of the poor when
they and the kings and millionaires come in colli-
sion. But Trades-Unionism remains to assert
and to practise the brotherhood of man.
Being a human institution, it is sometimes
stained by follies and crimes, sometimes deeply
tinged with selfishness and narrow-minded-
ness ; but, on the whole, it works for
good. Asserting as its one great commandment
“Thou shalt not steal thy neighbor’s job,” it
preaches altruism, fraternity, and comradely
kindness. The weak man is helped, the sick
comforted, the strong prevented from misusing
his strength. From conditions of wild compe-
tition, the strong trying to triumph over the we;
each struggling to better himself at his neighbor s
expense, the trades-unionists withdraw and agree
that, among them at any rate, a kinder and nobler
rule of life will be observed. Outside the union,
selfishness may rage, inside the rule is fraternity.
Occasionally the union organisation may be used
as an instrument of wrong and tyranny, but
such occasions are rare. The mere fact that
the union is made up of many men—and “in
many minds there is reasonableness” —usually
prevents that. Giving all due weight to
the condemnation which a trades-union now and
again earns, the general system and principle of
trades-unionism is worthy of being exalted to the
plane of a religious principle. In the welter of
social conditions, rudely disturbed. by the too-
sudden development of modern industrialism,
trades-unionism is the one certain point of light.
Relief may come from the evils which vex society
in State socialism ; or it may come in a voluntary
and individualistic organisation of men to regu-
late industry and the distribution of its rewards.
Trades-unionism will be valuable in either event,
more particularly in the latter, for the unionist
demonstrates the possibility of man, to some
extent, restraining his selfishness voluntarily and
without the compulsion of the law. The Vic-
torian conspirators against the public weal chose
their ground of attack on the railway-men with
resolute but crude malignity. It was certain that
the.men would fight for their trades-union rights,
but it is also certain that ultimately public opinion
will not only excuse but glorify their action.
Prison Labor.
“Jack Shay” writes on the Prison Labor ques-
tion :
The question of prison labor, to my mind, is an easy
one. At different times I have beard outcries about
prison goods competing successfully against articles pro-
duced by free labor. One gaol I know of makes a specialty
of bookbinding, and drives a trade among schools of art
and other begging institutions, simply on account of us
low prices. Other goods, such as mats, halters, rope-work,
&c., are also made in conflict with free labor products.
This amounts to the State subsidising cheap gaol labor
with board and lodging against free labor. My remedy is to
bring gaols, reformatories, refuges, &c., under the Arbitra-
tion Act, and fix a price for certain articles or hours of labor
which the inmates should receive. Credit the confinee
with earnings and debit him or her with cost of capture,
trial, maintenance and damages awarded, if any. If
prisoner has dependents such as wife, or family, debit
him also with their keep. Nobody likes working for
nothing, more especially criminals whose crimes were
committed for profit; and the earnings would prevent
gaol existence being a “ dead horse ” period. This system
would undoubtedly tend to raise inmates of such places.
With a standard price on their labor, prison authorities
could no longer compete unfairly. By turning gaols into
proper industrial concerns they would gradually lose
their character of purely punishment dens and become
more of reform schools which, I take it, is what the
sense of their establishment aims at. The non-penal
institutions, such as refuges, should not be lost sight of
in this connection. I have met several female and male
bolters from such, and their great complaint was that
they had to work hard for long hours (charitable people,
as a rule, are remorseless sweaters) with no remunera-
tion. Food and accommodation were minor causes or
complaint. Those refuges which cut firewood, make
boxes, do washing, sewing and other work, also compete
unfairly with the well-behaved citizen employed in simi-
lar industries. Bring every one of these places under the
labor laws. These laws undoubtedly raise the status of
free workers, and they would also go to raise the char-
acter of society’s outcasts and outlaws.
THE “ IMMEMORIAL ” HOSPITAL.
“The statement in our issue of yesterday regarding the shocking neglect and indifference to human suffer-
ing shown by those responsible for the delay in opening the Melbourne Fever Hospital might easily have been
made much stronger.... The apathy of the municipalities which decline to turn the Hospital into a going
concern will not be tolerated much longer.”— ARGUS.
TRADESMAN (spelling out the word): “ What did you say the lady’s name was, Mr. Bumble?”
The Great Salvation Cadge.
“Infidel” writes from Westralia re a very
common experience :
Re " Wiwar’s ” par. on the brutal squalor of Salvarmy
(B. 18/4/03). I lived in a Westralian township about ten
years ago. The Army started a local corps. It being the
only bit of excitement in an otherwise extremely dull
plaoe, the movement spread, and the local “officers’’
were able to convert souls and rake in the shekels on a
large scale. Then Coolgardie broke out, and the great
rush started. Our town was well situated for business,
so things hummed for a while, and Booth’s cadgers
reaped a harvest. The meetings were held in a hall
rented at 7s. a week from a local temperance society
which had collapsed and taken to drink. Through per-
sistent cadging, drum-banging, blood-and-fire yelling,
brass band and hallelujah, the local corp 3 managed to raise
enough funds to buy the hall for some £3OO. The corps
included a lot of young fellows, tradesmen, etc., who
set to work with a will and considerably improved and
thoroughly renovated the building, and they felt proud
about having a place of their own and no rent to pay.
Now when the local corps had completely turned the old
hall inside out, and got it into first-class order, and had
paid for it, and was going to enter into possession of its
own, a surprise packet arrived from headquarters. It
contained the news that henceforth the local corps would
have to pay to Booth 12s. per week rent for the hall.
This was to be a first charge on receipts and it must be
paid before the local officers (two girls) were entitled to
a penny of wages, because the hall was now vested in Mr.
William Booth of London, and he didn’t want any
arrears. Thus the local corps was not only charged rent
for a hall it bought with its own subscribed money, and
money it had collected amongst its friends and in the
district, but had actually the rent raised ss. per week for
improvements it had made. The result of this grasping
policy was that many “ backslid ” in disgust. The two
officers, captain and lieutenant, informed me they worked
on these lines, and I understand this is the general rule
in the Army. Out of the ordinary collections are to be
paid, first, rent of hall to Booth ; then ordinary expenses
of running the show—light, stage properties, printing,
advertising, etc. ; then officers’ wages (captain 20s. and
lieutenant 15s per week) if the week’s collection run to it.
Any surplus is forwarded to local headquarters ; any
shortage—well, that is simply so much off their wages ;
nor are they allowed to average, and make a good week
compensate for ft bad one. Booth knows too
much for that. Every penny surplus of the
good week has to be sent to headquarters, to enable
Salvation dudes to travel saloon by boat, first-class by
trains, etc., and generally ape the “ superiah officer”;
but any shortage in any one week the girls had to suffer
themselves, to teach them to cadge better next time.
After a time the railway was extended, and visitors with
spare cash departed. Then the officers could not “ work
the collections ” as of yore, with the result that, as they
told me once, for three weeks running they did not have
ss. to themselves between them, out of which to dress,
look decent, pay for board and lodging, etc. Yet not;a
penny would headquarters abate off the rent. And this
is what the leather-lunged, brass-faced, bell-mouthed
higher “staff officers” have the cheek to call “ a great
religious and charitable organisation.” If it is a charity,
then so are the pawnshop, the bill-discounter, the time-
payment man, the marine store, and the Chinese
gambling hell.
♦
Even democratic Maoriland has hung on to the
idea that, in connection with the election of local
governing bodies, it is a fair thing for some people
to have a number of votes and a number of people
to have no votes. There is a very large doubt
hovering round the islands now, though, as to
whether the old idea is right ; and the Labor
Congress, sitting at Greymouth, has decided that
it isn’t. Perhaps this is mainly due to the re-
markable difference between the values put upon
land by these local bodies, and used as the basis
for land tax, and the price asked for the same
land by the owners when the State has wanted
to buy it. In Auckland province, land for which
£60,000 was asked, and for which the Government
actually had to pay £61,000, was assessed by the
local body at £22,000, and on this amount it paid
land tax ; and for land in Taranaki, on which tax
was paid at the rate of J 129,000, £63,000 was
demanded. The people who own these big slices
of land have the most representation in the local
bodies; and the ordinary crowd has got its
suspicions, after considering these figures, that
the small crowd with the land and the votes isn’t
quite as straight as it might be.
“Chass”: The recent Bulletin appeal re the
necessity of settling people on the land under
conditions that give a chance of a human exist-
ence is pathetically emphasised by the so-called
closer settlement going on in S.-W. Victoria. On
every hand you see homes springing up and young
men and women embarking their few pounds in a
venture wherein the landlord system leaves
nothing to look forward to but ultimate failure
and human slavery in the meantime. The land-
lord’s letting terms are from three to five years,
and a rack rent of from 10s. to 12s. 6d. an acre is
charged for land which would not bring in 3s. for
sheep and wool-growing. The land is absolutely
bare of any improvements, tenants even having to
fence off their own cultivation. Yet, under such
hopeless terms, you see young people building
houses costing from £l5O to £2oo—houses that
will revert to the landlord in almost every case.
To see these beginnings of homes dotting the
plains, and busy teams working as only farmers in
straightened circumstances can work, is one of the
saddest sights in this Kyabram-cursed State.
Victoria has some fine material in these plucky
young men and women. Pity a shuffling Govern-
ment should leave them the alternatives of toiling
for others, or drifting away in search of
better prospects in some other State.
If the Victorian Government had half the
statesmanship it pretends to have, it would
fall over itself in its eagerness to muzzle the
strike leaders by putting them in places of trust
(and nearly always, by the way, the man who
is trusted by a well-organised union of skilled
men is fit for a place of trust also in the service).
Instead, it “removes” them, and thus pretty
surely makes another “ professional agitator or
two. (Note what Hollis, M.L.A., of the NS. W.
Enginemen, says: “If the Govt, does not treat
the members of the Drivers’ executive well, the
Amalgamated Society will take steps to recognise
them.”) Nearly all the “professional agitators
of Australia have been made that way. W. G.
Spence, now of the Reps., is about the oldest
of them, and he began like that. _ As a Vic.
miner he fought the proposed introduction
of Chinese “ assistants ” and was black-
balled all over the Vic. mines. _ The im-
mediate result was the organisation of the
Amalgamated Miners’ Association, of which he
was for years general secretary; after that, the
formation of the Shearers’ Union in Vic. ; and
after that the organisation of the A.W.U., in
N.S.W., Vic., and S. Australia, of which he has
for years been president. And the same thing
has been going on from Spence’s day down to
this. In fact, the same thing has been going on
from a much earlier crucifixion.


To Cure Dog Ailments.
Eminent Veterinary Surgeons
and Dog Fanciers (see Book
on bottle) strongly recommend
Coildy’S Fluid as a Certain Cure
for Distemper, Mange, Eczema,
Bites and Wounds in Dogs.
Insist on having “Coudy’S Fluid.”
All substitutes are inferior.
COUdy’S Fluid is sold everywhere
by all Chemists and Stores.
PC N >
GrO TO KCELL-
IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei).
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.„
38 KING ST., SYDNEY
SPECTACLES
—FOE—
DEFECTIVE
VISION. t„
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT
By its use you can Test y ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to-
ll. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 Ceorge-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
“Don’t shout’j
" I hear you. 1 can hear now •
as well as anybody.
"• How?' Oh some- t
thingnew— The Wilson
Common-sense Bar-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
they're invisible. I wouldn't
I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right." !
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
.working parts of the
natural ear Has no
wire Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable ' Totally
different from any other de-
vice descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
». CHAUIIBV 229-231 Collins &»., MelP-J
POLITICAL
POINTS
Notwithstanding his weight of years the
placid Brunker is credited with fixed designs on a
portfolio in the next N.S.W. Government.
“ No country ever attained the dignity of
a nation that confined itself to the production and
export of raw material.” —C. C. Kingston.
Sydney Telegraph on the most heavily-
protected portion of Edward Vll.’s dominions :
Canada is reeking in prosperity. It is at the present
moment the most prosperous part of the British empire.
More prosperous even than Freetrade England.
Freely predicted thac Maoriland will have
national prohibition within six years. Practically
all women, with the exception of Flossie, Mrs.
Publichouse, and the prohibited female, vote “no
license ” now.
Melbourne Age, starting as soon as the
strike is over to tell the truth about Bent’s in-
competent blacklegs : “In spite of all precautions
the damage done to some of the engines will cost
a large sum of money. It may run into
thousands.”
A prominent N.S.W. Labor member :
“ A month ago I did not believe in Federation
and I thought that a loan policy was not as bad as '
it was painted. The Victorian railway strike has
taught me to be an ardent Federalist, and I’ll
never vote for another, loan bill.”
Westralian Laborites next time are going
to have a try for every Federal seat except
Bigjohn's. De Largie is the only Labor senator
who retires ; the original idea was to choose two
other candidates to join him, but at his own
request he will go to the preliminary ballot with
the rest of them.
In N.S.W. and several other Australian
States the import duty on railway and other
material imported by the State is paid out of
loans, and then when the Federal Treasurer re-
funds the money to the State Treasurer it isn’t paid
back into the loan fund, but is put into revenue.
Sydney Telegraph recently spent a whole leading
: rticle in trying to prove that the only way to put
an end to this swindle is to abolish the duty. The
idea of simply not doing the swindle never struck
the Telegraph.
OBITUARY—THE LATE MR. SLOCOME
HOMES.
More spoils from S’Africa. England has
a small but energetic outbreak of enteric fever.
The salt of the earth is disgusted to discover
that thousands of blankets which were used in the
S’African war, captured by the Boers, then used
by Kaffirs, and utilised in the fever hospitals, are
now being sold m England.
Some of the Australian city papers were
3uite violent because the Australian Government
idn’t have the Yic. engine-drivers fined £5O each
for “obstructing his Majesty’s mails.” But as it
didn’t fine Cobb and Co. for obstructing his
Majesty’s mails in Queensland when that firm
struck for higher pay ; and as it didn’t fine Bent
for obstructing his Majesty’s mails by letting his
rusted heap of plates (called in derision an
“engine”) regularly break down on the road ;
and as it didn’t fine Bent again for recklessly pro-
voking a quarrel by upsetting the arrangements
under which his Majesty’s mails had been carried
peacefully on the Vic. railways for many years,
it was rather too late for that sort of thing.
Rumored that Q. Labor party will run
three “straight” candidates at approaching
Senatorial elections—probably Messrs. Stewart,
Turley, and Mit Reid. If they succeed, Glassey
will disappear. Seeing that Glassey has been a
consistent straight-goer, with a personality that
counts for something, he and the L.P. should
“ make it up.”
Mr. Chamberlain is at any rate a practical
politician. His old-age pensions scheme is brought
forward with a proposal to find the money for it
by new tariff imposts. In Australia the Labor
party when suggesting old-age pensions generally
leaves the means to Providence ; and ultimately
that’ll prove no better that leaving the pensioners
to Providence.
In its efforts to justify at any price Irvine’s
Strike Bill Sydney Telegraph is forced to seek
“ A German Parallel ” further supported by
“Dutch Strike Legislation.” Imagine the Tele-
graph’s desperate extremity when it has to go to
the friends of the “ignorant brutal Boer” to
reconcile the public conscience to Irvine’s
monstrous measure.
Headings from daily paper report, May
22 •
VICTORIAN STATE PARLIAMENT.
STRIKE SUPPRESSION BILL PASSED.
PREPARATION FOR MORE LOAMS.
Significant linking!
Australian Minister Kingston, in drafting
his Arbitration Bill, would do well to follow the
1902 N.S.W. model, which, in practical working,
has proved far the best of all the Australian
experiments in that direction. The Arbitration
Acts in order of merit are: Ist, the present.
N.S.W. ; 2nd, the M.L. ; 3rd, the W.A. ; 4th,
the S.A. ; sth, the old N.S.W. “voluntary” act.
Melbourne Argus expresses the hope that
the Privy Council will uphold Chief Justice
Madden’s amazing decision on the Customs Act,
so as to render “no customs prosecution lawfully
possible.” This indecent expression of a hope
that the collection of the revenue will be prac-
tically blocked, and the swindling importer gi ven
the most absolute permission to swindle as
much as he likes with impunity, seems to sug-
gest that the Argus recognises its friend, the
importer, as a swindler who needs a lot of impunity
to keep him out of gaol.
The Tory press has unanimously taken up
an attitude of lofty pity for the ignorance of the
N.S.W. Labor party in proposing a graduated
land tax and absentee tax. Its general aspect
implies that such things have never been heard of
in any civilised country, and that the case is one
which doesn’t call for argument —only for skilled
medical attendance. As to the fact that such
taxes have existed for years in Maoriland and else-
where, and that they are now quite ordinary and
almost old-fashioned expedients, no one would
gather that from the daily suppress.
The dogged persistency with which the
Carruthers party fills in time lamenting about
the “Friedman case” shows
the pitiable smallness of its
mind. There are a hun-
dred large reforms that
want doing in N.S.W.,
and the country wants to
know what Carruthers
will do about them. And
Carruthers’ policy con-
sists almost wholly in
lamentations because a
little twopenny Jew of
no account got his sen-
tence commuted ever so
long ago. N.S.W. doesn’t
want a Friedman Minis-
try, and it is tired of
having the Friedman red
herring dragged across
the trail. Doesn’t Car-
ruthers know anything
about any subject save
Friedman ?
The weird decision
given by the Privy Coun-
cil in the Porirua Trust
case (M.L.), and the
language it used in giv-
ing that judgment, led
Chief Justice Stout to
point out from the Bench
that in several Maori-
land appeals the Privy
Council showed (in addi-
tion to the lack of com-
mon decency in its
language) utter and hope-
less ignorance of the
Maoriland laws, on which
it was supposed to decide, of
law terms, and of history. In
one case it didn’t even know
when Maoriland became a self-
governing State, and, conse-
quently, when Maoriland law first began
to apply, and decided the case according to an
English statute which, at the date of dispute, had
ceased to apply to Maoriland affairs.
Tb looks as if absolutely everything the
Irvine Government touches forthwith begins to
Gtink. The big Waranga Basin began in an odor
of jobbery, continued in an atmosphere of typhoid
and stench, and now the men engaged are on the
verge of starvation through the boss allowing only
an average of five days’ work a fortnight. Parts of
the contract have been sub-let to men eager to get
bare tucker.
The petition being signed in the Grafton
district praying the Government to appoint Mr.
Sam See a member of the Leg. Council is the first
of its kind in N.S.W. annals. Sam is as good as
the average M.L.C. —perhaps better than most;
but what interest the petitioners can take in
putting him in the Council is difficult to under-
stand. It may be that they think two Sees in the
Legislative Assembly would create an embarrass-
ment of brains.
Premier Seddon still endeavors to stir up
popular enthusiasm about his “Greater Maori-
land” scheme. In a recent speech at Wellington
he dwelt again on the beauties and advantages of
having an island empire of 16,000 specks and
rocks to look after, and after whacking the subject
with great fury for half-an-hour he managed to
extract a half-hearted cheer from a few of his
hearers.
Bent has always been very good to his
own constituency of Brighton. All his hired
spies came from there ; and all through the strike
week, while such populous places as Collingwood,
Box Hill, Surrey Hills, Oakleigh, were absolutely
without any train service, Brighton (in Bent’s
electorate) had the only decent service running,
six of the 10 “loyal” enginemen being put on
that line.
N.S.W. Government, in spite of its many
huge buildings, pays £21,106 a year in rent for
private houses. There is a great waste of space
in most Government offices. A 30s. a-week clerk
is often housed in 40s. a-week worth of room —
with 7s. 6d. a-week worth of marble corridor to
fall on as he comes out of it. A Government with
any nous could comfortably house all the N.S.W.
civil service and 25 per cent, more clerks in the
existing Government buildings.
It is already reported that there may be
no Navigation Bill in the Australian Parliament
this session, that vast and intricate subject not
being fully overhauled yet. If so it is a grievous
pity. Three things that particularly call for
attention are the abolition of some shocking old
Marine Boards ; some definite action re the cheap-
labor foreign vessels that meddle in the Australian
coasting trade; and the restriction of the cheap
colored seaman on our mail boats.
Line from a recent trade-circular issued by
W. and A. M‘Arthur, of Sydney (Foreign-trader
M‘Millan’s firm):
Colonial Flannels and Colonial Blankets specially
manufactured for us in Victoria.
Now, why does M'Millan get his goods specially
manufactured in Victoria? Is it because many
years of Protection have enabled it to do better
and cheaper work on a larger scale than the
M‘Millan-cursed State of N.S.W., or why is it ?
England has worshipped so long at the
shrine of Cobden that her politicians seem to
be ashamed of plunging now directly for Protec-
tion, and wish to retreat from an obviously un-
tenable Freetrade position under cover of a desire
to “please the colonies.” “The colonies” are
very handy nowadays in British politics. It was
to “ please the colonies ” that the S’African war
was entered upon ; and now John Bull prepares
to turn out Mistress Freetrade with a hypocritical
tear on the plea that “the colonies” insist, in-
stead of confessing that he is tired of the lady.
Giving evidence before Vic. Railways
Standing Committee, Chief Engineer Thwaites,
of Melb. Board of Works, quoted figures showing
that the State-owned railways of Victoria com-
pared favorably with the privately-owned ditto, of
America and Great Britain. ‘ ‘Taking the profits per
head of population, they showed that the amount
earned in Great Britain was 16s. per head, in
U.S.A. 205., in New South Wales 215., and in
Vic. 21s. 7d.” And yet the great and allegedly
unnatural Vic. railway deficit is the reason
advanced for Bent’s clumsy butchering of the
national property.
A recent Chamber judgment of Justice
Pring has caused a mild scandal in legal circles.
The judgment in question is that a Supreme
Court writ can be issued for any amount, how-
ever small. Taking a hard grip of this, many
pettifoggers in the profession have given the Dis-
trict Court and the Small Debts Court best, and
have issued Supreme Court writs for small sums,
with three guineas costs of the writ. Writer has
seen a number of such, but his surprise was more
than great when he saw a writ issued by one of
the oldest and most prominent legal firms for the
sum of 195., with a demand for £2 2s. cost of writ.
Queensland State-member Fox, in a letter
to the Central Q. Stockowners’ Ass., says :
A fair proposition to submit would be to propose that
the pastoralists be only asked to pay per head from year
to year for their holding as the stock increased. The
rent would increase automatically, otherwise the full
rent of the holdings that have lost from 75 to 90 per cent,
will cripple these tenants under existing conditions and
circumstances, and hamper an industry largely respon-
sible for the past prosperity of the State.
Which is to say that the poor squatter, having a
big lump of territory which he has no use for,
should have the land rent free until such time as
he can breed up to stock it, so as to prevent the
annoying selector cutting bits out it, and so
settling what is now a beautifully wild and un-
populated country.
From John Norton’s Open Blather to Vic.
Premier Irvine:
But you mistake your man if you fancy that I fear
your frown or dread your anger any more than I do that
of your congeners in New South Wales, or that of the
blasted band of boodlers and boozers who are at present
running this blessed Continental Commonwealth in
Federal fetters for their own behoof. If you doubt it,
try me ; take me on ; and I swear before all my ancestral
and household gods—nay, by the holy head of my little
son—that any attempt on your part to stifle Truth by
open or secret tactics will result in, etc., etc.
There is some “ go ” about that, but John reached
his high-water mark of energy and alliteration
years ago, when he compared something or other
to the “bandy and bad-breathed bed-bug.”
There is a hitch over the re-admission of
W. J. Ferguson to N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor
party, as recommended by the “Assembly” of
the Broken Hill political labor bodies. A P.L.L.
rule says that one who opposes a selected Labor
candidate isn’t competent to himself be a
Labor candidate at the next elections; and
nominally Ferguson opposed the selected Labor
candidate last time. Practically, however, it
was Ferguson who was opposed ; and that would
not have happened if there had not been some
very crooked business. As Ferguson never ought
to have been put out of the party, and as his re-
admission will probably win one or two other
seats, the P.L.L. executive had better get to work
to abolish the hitch as speedily as possible.
i:t looks as though the electors of Bacchus
Marsh (Vic.) have the gilded name of Staughton
engraven upon their local souls. Whilst the
original squattah Staughton lived he was member
perennial for the Bacchus Marsh district. When
that opulent exemplar of gentlemanly arrogance
was gathered to his fathers, Bacchus Marsh im-
plored his son. the Captain, to take his father’s
legislative job, and the Captain consented. And
now that the luckless young man sleeps beside his
parent m the shade of a beautiful black granite
moiiument, the “leading” grovellers of Bacchus
Marsh have besought his cousin, Mr. J. Staughton
to honor the constituency with his family patron-
age. As far as the Marsh is concerned, the Vic
Leg. Assembly might be a House of Peers.
No Sydney daily has the courage to say
straight out that it objects to the Undesirable
Aliens Exclusion Act, but every time a brown
courtesy sultan man or a few performing Maoris
are held up till an exemption can be obtained
from the proper quarter, which generally takes
about a couple of hours, the Sydney dailies rush
to report the case as a sort of outrage and
generally try to give the impression that absolute
exclusion was intended, and that when the
exemption came along it was a sort of back-down
on the part of the Federal Government; instead
of being a mere matter of routine. This sort of
thing may yet lead to the Federal Government
introducing a Bill to make newspaper proprietors
liable to damages for misrepresentation of facts.
INSULT TO INJURY.
MICK, THE CRACKER: "'Ere, cookie, this yrul
ain’t fit for a dorg. It makes me fair sick."
COOKIE: “ Well, if ’Is Majesty's vittles ain’t good
enough for you, why don’t ye try somewheres
else?”
Australia’s one truly democratic and
nationalist Minister, Charles Kingston
As to the High Court, he believed in Australia being
self-contained. , It was idle to appeal for a final decision
to the Privy Council, a body unacquainted with the
genius and spirit of Australian law ; to appeal to men
who had no idea of the local circurhstances, and who, not
knowing those circumstances, were prone to error. Aus-
tralia had the right to make her laws, and surely had the
right to declare what those laws meant. Were they to
go to the other side of the world, to those who knew
nothing of their condition? He said no—emphatically
no! (Cheers.) The v. overnment of Australia would not
be complete until they had the right for Australia finally
to interpret her laws, independently of the views held by
others who had no knowledge of their making, or of the
circumstances in which they were made. Were they to
have no Court declaring their Constitution ?
Premier Irvine, with his hysterical scheme
for gagging the press by stopping the circulation
of all papers that disapproved of Bent’s frenzy, has
established a precedent which will never be quite
forgotten in Australia. Some day a Protectionist
Government may make use of it to shut down
on the Argus and other papers that oppose the
Government by advocating Freetrade ; or a
Labor Government may employ it to suppress
the Argus and the Age and the Telegraph
and the Courier for urging a policy of reaction.
The fool that burned the temple of Ephesus was
nothing like the fool Irvine who started to teach
Labor the art of newspaper suppression when its
time comes. There are only a handful of Demo-
cratic newspapers for Irvine to suppress now, but
there are a whole lot of valuable Tory organs that
the other party may suppress when its time comes
—if it is as great a fool as Irvine.
The good old lie that the Vic. House of
Fat is “ a check on hasty legislation ” ! On the-
Wednesday night when Vic. Assembly was
debating Irvine’s infamous Strike Suppression
Bill—while mounted troopers guarded the outer
gates, and the gardens and entrances simply
swarmed with foot-police—the galleries were
crowded with beefy men called Councillors,
openly babbling of their intention to “wait for
the Bill, and put it through without delay.”
President Wrixon adjourned for no stated period,
but merely “until he should send for them”;
there was no adjournment for a week or a month
as over the Factories Acts and the Reform Bill.
They were going to rush the Bill through without
even looking at it. The House of Landlords
simply revels in hasty legislation. It calls itself
a House of sober, calm consideration, and it is
really a House of hysterics.


1
D
§
a
Hard Times
Demand
Economy.
Duty Free
Post Free
17/6
Our
Special
Boot.
THE CALLAGHAN French
Calf Lace Boot, Leather-
lined, in pointed, medium
and square toes.
A really strong, serviceable i
Boot for city or country wear J
16 6
A Pair sent Post and Duty Pree to any address'
in the Commonwealth (except W. A.) upon receipt of
17/6
Please remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note with order.
WE BATIBFY EVERY CUSTOMER, OR WE RETURN HIS MONEY. ~
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
Hydatids Again Conquered
BY
VITADATIO
READ THIS TESTiriONIAL.
158 Point Piper Road, Paddington.
July 23, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—l am pleased to say that I have been cured
of Hydatids by Webber’s VITADATIO. I had suffered
for years with a severe pain in the stomach. Not one of
the doctors whom I consulted did me any good.
After taking a few bottles of your VITADATIO the
Hydatids began to pass from me, and now I am quite a
new man. lam so well-known in Sydney that I know
my numerous friends will be glad to know of my wonder-
ful cure. I shall be glad to answer any questions about
my case to anyone who may enquire. I have been treated
in two of the best hospitals in Sydney, and it is all the
more wonderful to me to know that VITADATIO has
done for me what the best doctors in Sydney have failed
to do.
Yours faithfully,
P. MAGNUS.
I certify that the above is a true and correct statement.
—P. Magnus, junr.
For further particulars,
S'. A. PALMER,
■Head Office: Clarendon Street N,,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Elliot Bros., Sydney, Sole Agents for N. S. Wales.
Do You
Wear a
Truss?
If 80,
TR>
Denyer's Elastic Truss.
IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suite any Rupture.
PRICES : 15/- SINGLE ; 20/- Double
Send Measure and P. 0. Order.
DENYFR RftfiQ 281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
11 Opp. Hunter St.
Opp.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
Irrigation in Queensland
AND
OTHER
AUSTRALIAN
STATES
By
PE
CY
SM
TH
POSTED
5/6
HATSOM, FERGUSON
BRISBANE
CO
AND
BOOKSELLERS
Dawn anl Dusk:
By Victor J. Daley. Handsomely bound ;
niakes a fine presentation volume to friends
abroad. Post free from The Bulletin
Utface, 6s. 4d.
When the Victorian railway strike was in
full blast, gangs of University students, who
called themselves “vigilance committees,” were
enlisted by the railway authorities to smash any
strikers who might be found on the railway
premises using moral suasion on the blacklegs.
Nearly all the disturbances of the time were per-
petrated by these pushes of authorised ruffians.
They assaulted the regular police, and played the
yahoo with the ingenuity of demented monkeys.
Had the Unionist pickets indulged in anything
like the same horse-play, the military would have
been requisitioned by the State Govt. fromtheFede-
ral authorities, for the purpose of shooting them
down. It was most unfortunate that the railway
men caved in; in another week, the Iceberg
Government might have been swept away, hanged
or kicked into the sea by the lawless organised
ruffianism it had called into being.
ARE YOU AWARE
THAT we not only make clothes to measure
but we make them to fit ? We trouble more
about the fit than our customers do. We consider
our reputation is at stake with every suit we
make; that is why we are sure we can satisfy
you. The highly efficient and experienced
measure cutters we employ make a specialty of
cutting to customers’ own measurements, and if
you patronise us you will be able to say, “ I am
thoroughly satisfied with my clothes.” We make
a first-class suit to measure from 50s. (carriage
paid) and send patterns and self-measurement
forms to any address in the Commonwealth. We
will do the same to you if you will write to Chas.
Gilbert, the leading cash tailor, Brisbane.
Memory and Success.
The Secret of Success—A Good Memory.
The Pelman System
of Memory Training.
"M"0 matter what your line of work may be a
- L ' l bad memory means worry and failure. No
matter how bad your memory may be Pelman’s
System will make it good. Even if your memory
is good, Pelman's System will teach you how to
use your brains systematically and turn failure
into success.
The System is taught in Five Postal Lessons,
which can be had from Melbourne Branch. All
the teaching required is done successfully by cor-
respondence with Melbourne Secretary. ’ The
Melbourne Branch gives you everything you
need, same as Head Office in London.
Do you want to remember Figures, Dates,
Names, Appointments, Verbal Instructions, Busi-
ness Details, &c., &c. Do you want to save time,
to think rapidly, to reason logically, to avoid
mistakes? In a vord, do you want to be in line
with the men whose trained minds have brought
success? Then take Pelman’s Course of Training.
It is simple, easy, practical, effective. If you
have any doubt, however, write first for a FREE
copy of Mr. Pelman’s explanatory booklet •
“ Memory Training ; its Laws and their applica
tion to Practical Life.” 80 pages. It gives a
large number of convincing testimonials. Sent
post free on applicatian to
The Pelman School of Memory Training,
Melbourne, G.P.O. Box 402.
London, 4 Bloomsbury St., W.C. ; Paris, Ave. de Neuilly,
109; Munich, Mozartstr. 9.; Chicago, 1608 Masonic Temple.
What made your linens coarse?
Common soap.
Sunlight Soap saves linen.
Sunlight
REDUCE
EXPENS
pi 0)
Important Announcement!
■
isss*?
m
m
NEW MODEL No. 10 YOST (Now Ready)
Bristling with Improvements for the benefit of owner and
operator alike.
Noiselesa Working.-^
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
Sydney, Melbourno and Perth.
WEBSTER & CO., Brisbans. NEW YORK IMPORT CO., Adelaide. HEDLEY BUTTON, Launceston.
HARDY BROTHERS,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS.
Silver Hair Brushes
In the Cherub Pattern, Heavy
Silver Hair Brushes - - -
In other Patterns, from 42/-
88/'
per
pair.
Every description of Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Toilet
Requisites in Sterling Silver, Ivory, etc.
Goods forwarded to all parts of the Commonwealth
without any inconvenience to Customers.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
SHOWROOMS:
13 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY; .»d.t
118 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
m
I
mm..
•fV* ♦ A ; '&^ t ’~'sX»jr' j
I
‘ At*
ps®
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
□gh-Class Corsets
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
riOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “ Trade
Hark on band inside, as above.


Banking, Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. mm '
LOWEST INTjoBiEST. s'
EASY TERMS.
WE
w
Cy>
$
1^
BILLS
discounted.
rKr.s.-vv.
(Qont deplete DJI. C°-> W-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLEREA6H ST., 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
74
-THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robirt*
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,55)5,8(0.
Policies issued 88,299 -assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,,6/,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of north Queensland
Li Aim? D.
Svdney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
M j p CANXT (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - *700,000
Capital Paia-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Sb “"' 850 -MO £350,000
15.' Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMIT KM. „„„„
papitat PAID-UP .. •• .. •• £-456,927
RESERVE UABILrTfoF SHAREHOLDERS 1Te,239
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,uuu
r £691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Epwd. D. Dat. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Compy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
■DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Jls Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. Fm tariff, ’apply to GEO V. S DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot Queensland the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
S /T V I N G S BANK
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £1 e o °°’ on
Properties ; and £2OOO to £20,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yearly.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4* per cent, for 31* years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-GeneraL
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L A. Jessop Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farouhar J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
r arquhar. *.*.**■•■ » 13! Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per oenfc. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. ••
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
2,000,000
600,000
Total Capital ~ .. £WOOO
EXECUTORS
The trustees.
AND
agency company limited,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company s
business! ••• •••
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ,
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt. M-L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FfiEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
JAMES MARTIN &CO.,
161 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY N.S.W.
1
SI
igjf&
hP :
FOR
ACETYLENE GAS
MARTIN’S Reliable AUTOHATIC GENERATORS
ar e in daily use throughout New South Wales, and
user* everywhere speak of them in the highest terms.
Manufactured from the best Galvanised Steel. Light
vour home, church, store, factory, or town with
Martin’s Acetylene Gas. Comprehensive Catalogues
and all other particulars can he obtained from us.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUH at the BEST PRICES.
Shipping.
KT. X 3. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHF.R LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. ind 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. DELI. 24th JUNE.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SALAMTS
ABERDEEN
DAMASCUS
A. Douglas, R.N.R.
A. Robb
R. B. V. McKilliam
Noon, June 12
Noon, July 3
Noon, July 24
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 109 .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & C°s C ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
A. and A. LIME.
TWO GrR AND EXCURSION'S.
YQSEMITE VALLEY and California BIG trees,
UP IN THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS.
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland say Yosemite surpasses even
the grandeur of the Alps.
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MONTE (Monterey).
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND HEALTH AND PLEASURE RESORT.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate in these excursions.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
a ''HE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc. ,
COUGHS
Powell’s Balsam
of Ani
SAFE AND RELIABLE.—
Gives Immediate Relief.
f;
tftADE
for 78 YEARS
THE POPULAR REMEDY FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
It loosens the Phlegm immediately, and removes
the tickling sensation in the Throat, which de-
prives so many ot rest daring the night. It also
Strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoarseness.
6o!d by all Chemists and Storekeepers,
But see the well-known Trade Mark—Lion, Net
and Mouse—is on each wrapper.
Prepared only by Thomas Powell, Ltd. t
L Blackfriars, London, S.E. A
THE DEAF HEAR.
DEAF persons need no longer despair. Out of the
mass of failures has come a genuine success.
Head noises can be cured and the deaf made to
hear so effectively that they wonder if they really
were deaf. Particulars of a startling discovery,
based upon the science of Metallic Galvanic Elec-
tricity, that will assist all persons suffering from
deafness, fully described.
FREE*
Bv sending your name and address to
THE L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64
HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY, you will receive a full
description of this remarkable method, which will
enable you to restore your hearing at a very slight
expense. The description is posted to you free,
and you Will be delighted to learn how easily you
can obtain relief. It will pay you to write to-day.
Don’t neglect to do so.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
JUNE 15. JULY 13. AUGUST 10.
Cheapest Route to London.
Grand Excursion to Canada.
£6O for 63 days, including
expenses on steamer, railway
and at hotels.
ONLY CANADA HAS BEEN LAVORED WITH
THE WORLD’S BEST SCENERY.
Chance to See South Sea Islands.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS. WINTER EXCURSION.
A 38-day OCEAN CRUISE in Tropical Weather,
7000 miles cruising and 18 days ashore.
A select party to be accompanied by His Eminence
Cardinal Moran.
TONGA SAMOA, FIJI, NEW HEBRIDES, and LOYALTY
GROUPS, and NORFOLK, WALLIS. FUTUNA, TANNA
PINES ISLANDS and NEW CALEDONIA.
The Splendid New Steamship, “ VICTORIA,” 3000 tons,
15J knots, will leave Sydney on 25th July.
(Passengers live on Vessel in Ports.)
FARES : 42 GUINEAS AND UPWARDS.
For Illustrated Prospectus, Plan of Vessel, and Passage
Rates, apply W. J. SPRUSON, 169 KING ST., SYDNEY,
or IHOS. COOK & SON, Tourist Agents, 4 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY, and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Bris-
bane, Perth, Wellington, and Auckland.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole Agent for Australasia.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And OULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingrat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports J
S.S. Cintra,
Friday, May 29.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, June 6
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Claims
S.B. Rockton, Sat., May 30.
• S.S. Ointra, June 4.
S.S. Innamincka, June 6.
Jiest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P AND Q COMPANY’S
* " ROYAL MAIL STEAMER 3
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £11")
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available ipr return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times andN.D.L. Steamers having room.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritime.**
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling: at MELBOUBNE, ADZ-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POItC
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows: —
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
eta and also accompany them to Paris and Calais."
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THB . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Porta and Port Darwin.
Commander. Leave Sydney.
Steamer.
Tni
AUSTRALIAN
♦EMPIRE
EASTERN
♦AUSTRALIAN
3000]VV. G. McArthur..
4500] P. T. Helms
3600 Winthrop Ellis .. August 5
3000 W. G. McArthur.. September 2
June
July
♦Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGU.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fan 3.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U S America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Svdney.
DR. J. COIUS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPyME
isS&t
Caution.— 'Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAERHCEA, bear 3 oa
tbe Government Stamp the naui®
of the Inventor—-
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
ynK ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS aJ
SepL 28, 1895, says:
« jf j were asked which single medicine T should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of »U
othersf I should say Chlorodyne I.never
without it and its general apolicability to t
relief of a large number simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Sair Taifs. 5s 6d to £3*3*. Send Pattern ol Hau and
write for any Information. Country Orders r
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressin„ Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
cRAia & a itkeN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley.
with portrait.
In
Price ss.
handsome cloth
; postage, 4d.


Ashfield (N.S.W.) Infants Home in
most respects an excellent institution— has this
rule:
Under no circumstance is an unmarried girl with a
second child admitted, so that the danger of abusing the
benefits offered is considerably reduced.
Why should the first-born illegitimate be given a
chance to live and the second-born illegitimate
not? The institute seems to suggest, in an in-
direct way, that No. 2 should be allowed to perish
as a punishment to its mother for her contumacy.
Biliousness Again Banished.
More Gratitude for Bile Beans.
**For many years I have been a martyr to
biliousness,” says Mrs. M. Jordan, of Kelly-
street, Scone, N.S.W. “Almost every fort-
night I would have an attack, and try what I
would, I could get no relief. The pain in my
head was unbearable, also the pain across the
eyes. After eating I would vomit terribly. I
tried several so-called remedies, but gained no
relief. I then decided to give Bile Beans a trial,
although I had little faith in them after my
experiences with other medicines. To my sur-
prise I gained relief from the first dose. Thus
encouraged, I continued with the Beans, follow-
ing the directions closely, and can now truthfully
say I am enjoying splendid health, and have
never had a bilious attack since 1 first began
using Bile Beans. My work is now a pleasure,
and my friends have noticed the great improve-
ment there is in me. Words cannot express my
gratitude to you for your wonderful medicine,
and I hope that many others suffering from
biliousness, will be persuaded to try Bile Beans.”
Bile Beans have now a world wide reputation for
curing biliousness, headache, indigestion, constipa-
tion, piles, debility, female weaknesses, Nervous-
ness, bad blood, pimples and all skin eruptions,
bad breath, anaemia, loss of appetite, rheumatism,
and by giving tone to the system will ward off
coughs, colds, and influenza. Bile Beans are
obtainable from all medicine vendors.*
NOTICE
• To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
| Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
i Limbs.
i The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
< Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
| 71 Old Kent Road, London.
1 Renowned for over a century for quick
I efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. If sold by all Chemists
i in the Australian Colonies.
: Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
, By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. Is. 6d.
* N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
, LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingijkstre &■ Truman,
, 71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
INSTANTANEOUS
BATH HEATERS,
For Gas, Kerosene, or Wood,
from 508.
Larpe Stock of
ROOM WARMERS,
For Gas and Kerosene only.
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS.,
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ c. ELDEIDG-E & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from, all the colonies promptly
attended to.
A Wolfang (Peak Downs) shearer thus hits
back at a local parson who objected to a Sunday
carnival in aid of the hospital :
There is no commandment in the New Testament to
(to and sit on a Sunday in a hot, stuffy little chapel
amonj? a perspiring congregation, and listen to dreary
platitudes droned out by a stupid preacher.
The big western plains are prolific of irreverence,
brethren.
"Blister”: Rabbits are Is. 2d. a pair,
meat is 7d. to lOd. per lb., steak Is. 2d. per lb. ;
there are rent and wages to pay. Will someone
kindly expound how a man (and he’s not a Greek
or a Chinaman) can offer the following bill of fare
for 6d..-
Soups : Mutton broth, oxtail, gravy and leek.
Fish : Boiled salmon trout, fried ditto.
Entrees : Steak pudding, steak pie, stewed and baked
rabbit and bacon.
j 1 ' ® ,oaB t b ee h mutton, lamb and mint sauce,
boiled mutton and parsley sauce, stuffed mutton, corned
beef and carrots. Vegetables : Potatoes and cabbage.
Sweets : Plum pudding and rice, macaroni and fruit,
rice and fruit, jam roll, stewed rhubarb, apricot pie.
A fresh pot of tea for each customer.
“ J.F.D.” : I know a believer in “re-
formed dress ’’ who endeavors to carry his ideas
into practice whenever possible. When at home
on Saturday afternoons and Sundays he comes
down to a loin cloth, and makes his wife dress
rather scantily also. He is a conscientious man,
but he has had to put up with much. The people
over the way prosecuted him once, though he
simply walked out on the balcony for the morning
paper. He had the loin-cloth, too, but the magis-
trate gave him a severe talking to. Then an Irish
cook-lady scalded his bare legs with a pot of hot
water, as he was coming up the back stairs. So
now he mostly confines himself to his own bed-
room and dressing-room.
“ Simon ” : Despite recent prosecutions,
the clairvoyant charlatan continues to thrive with
impunity. Visited the other evening a male fakir
in my street whose fame had spread far and
wide. A Per paying 6d., was shown into a rather
commodious room, almost in darkness ; some 30
chairs were arranged in a circle ; could outline 17
women and one man present. Each in turn was
treated to a lengthy, non-committal sort of an
address, similar in character to a S.M. Herald
leading article. The same old ineffable hogwash
of a pitch was fired off, without variation, 19
times in my hearing. He had five guesses at my
mother-in-law’s complaint (I told him she was not
too well), and failed —she’s got dyspepsia.
One woman actually asked if he’d recommend her
to get her husband an electric belt. Yet how
they do flock to hear him. His income must be
better than that of many professional men.
Whoever would be “ Cock o’ the walk ”
Must open his mouth and crow loud.
For whispers and mutters are plainly not talk,
And very soon lost in a crowd.
We take special care that we may be heard,
Our knowledge we cannot immure,
For bad coughs and colds the stuff that’s preferred
Is Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
The latest dodge of Burglar Bill and Co.
is to call with vans at furnished houses whilst
owners are sea-siding, and explain to curious
neighbors that Mrs. So-and-so is not coming back
owing to ill-health. Bill has previously obtained
the necessary keys ; the house is opened, and
every particle of furniture carted off. Sympathetic
neighbors of respectable character—deacons,
Sunday-school teachers, and the like—often give
the robber a lift with the heavy things. Still
there have been worse things than this. London
one summer had a gang which went house-stealing.
A most respectable gentleman with good refer-
ences would rent for the summer the furnished
house of a family going to the seaside. The rent
was paid in advance to prevent any agent coming
round collecting. Then the respectable gentleman
sold all the furniture, and also hunted up a
speculative builder and sold him the materials of
which the house was built—he wanted it pulled
down immediately as he meant to build a much
better one on the site. Generally the speculative
builder was interrupted before he had more than
got the roof off, but one or two families returned
to find only a bare allotment—house, furniture,
respectable gentleman, all gone.
IF NEGLECTED,
" Whooping cough leads to more serious diseases.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy will keep the cough
loose, allay the irritation, and counteract any
tendency towards pneumonia. It always cures,
and cures quickly. Is. 6d. #
MONDAY, 3rd AUfiUST, at 12 o'clock noon, STAPELTON’S HALL, GIN GIN,
Near Bundabcrg (Queensland).
THE GIN GIN ESTATE FARMS
11,000 ACRES.
Will bo sold by PUBLIC AUCTION, by order of the Trustees in the settlements of
SIB THOMAS KcILWBAITH, Deceased.
THE GIN GIN ESTATE is situated on the Mt. Perry Railway Line about *23 miles
from Bundaberg, Queensland, about 12£ hours train from Brisbane, with a frontage of
over 3 miles to the railway line and about 3j miles to the fresh waters of the Burnett
River.
THE GIN GIN ESTATE which has long been coveted by Agriculturists has
now been SUBDIVIDED Into 103 FARMS
of various areas, well watered and drained and containing SOME of the BEST
AGRICULTURAL LAND in this already famous District.
THE SOIL CONSISTS OF LIGHT AND EASILY WORKED BLACK AND
CHOCOLATE VOLCANIC LOAMS and by analysis has been PROVED EQUAL
TO, AND IN MANY CASES SUPERIOR TO THAT OF THE CELEBRATED
DARLING DOWNS with the additional attraction of A BETTER RAINFALL
due to its proximity to the sea coast.
CLEARING WILL COST PRACTICALLY NOTHING as the estate has nearly
all been ringbarked for 14 years and you can start ploughing right away.
CROPS OF ALL CEREALS, SUGAR, POTATOES and ONIONS grow in
profusion and for general farming and dairying the land is unsurpassed.
MAROONDAN RAILWAY STATION IS RIGHT ON THE LAND and
allotments in the TOWNSHIP OF MAROONDAN will be sold immediately after
the farms. , , „
The Gin Gin Central Sugar Mill (which cost £55,000) is elose to the Farms, also
a Creamery and a Butter Factory.
UNPRECEDENTED TERMS (24 YEARS) are offered—ONE-TENTH
CASH. No Payments for 2 Years and the balance in 23 Annual
Instalments with interest at 4 per cent.
An ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET giving full particulars may be had on application to
the office of this paper or from the Auctioneers,
ISLES, LOVE & CO., The Post Office Auction Mart,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
TO YOUNG MEN Abraham Lincoln’s advice was “GO WEST”; our advice is—
“GO NORTH."
AFTER DIiiKER
thirty drops of Seigel’s Syrup ensure complete di-
ction. and Drevent the Dain and torpor consequent c
thirty drops ot beigei s syrup ensure complete ui-
gestion, and prevent the pain and torpor consequent 1
indigestion. Seigel’s Syrup builds health on good diges
for ’tis not what you eat, but only that which you digest
nourishes your body and sustains your life.
“For several years,”
says Miss Ethel Williams,
of 9, Wemyss St., Sydney,
N.S.W., “ my life was rendered miserable by indigestion and
general debility. I could not sleep at night and was often
afflicted with severe sick headaches and bilious ■ ttacks.
An old iriend recommended Mother Seigel’s Svrup.
Within a week I discovered it was doing me substan-
tial good. Eight bottles completed my cure.”
AIDS DIGESTION.
‘HARLENE’
S HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/-, 2/6,and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per
Bottle from Drug-gists, &c., all over
: the World.
V
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
itilliiiii I
mm
;iil
vm r
m
‘Mamma, shall I have beautiful long hair like you when X grow up?"
* Certain!}, hay dear, if you use Edwards' ‘ Harlene.’ ” v
KODAK
KODOID
PLATES
THE NEW FLAT FILMS
Are as easy to manipulate as Glass,
but are
LIGHTER,
THINNER,
SAFER
than Glass Plates.
aro
Kodoid Plates
NON-HALATION,
ORTHOCHROMATIC.
Used wherever Glass Plates are used.
Nearly 20 per cent, cheaper than
other cut films.
PRICES (per dozen): * pi., 1/6- 5x4, 2/4-. i pl>» 3/6.
Full Particulars of All Dealers or of . .
KODAK Ltd.,
284 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
Please mention this Paper.
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affection*.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
he bulletin storv book :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ,
price, 4s. 6d ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS I
' RDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd, Sydney and Brisbane
JAYNE'S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHiS,


\
'SS,
tun
fflOJ
03QAI
of the way many people eat and drink at all
hours of the day and night you do not wonder
at the stomach being unable to properly fulfil
its duty of digestion and nutrition. When the
stomach fails to perform its proper duty, con-
stipation, biliousness and a generally disordered
condition of the entire system takes place. These
are indicated by the sunken cheek, muddy com-
plexion and jaundiced eye, with its dark circle
underneath. Dr Morse’s Indian Root Pills never
fail to cleanse the system of all impurities, bring-
ing back the rosy cheek and the bright eye to tell
that the food is being perfectly digested, and the
body nourished. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
are a positive and permanent cure for biliousness,
constipation, indigestion, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.
Packed in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon. _
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUIB3 *
«,
The Vic. Railway strike should Jiave been
avoided by an appeal to D.C.L. Whisky. Ihe
genial influence of that sunny beverage, must
sooth the feelings of the men and pacify the
turbulent breast of the most unruly oppressor of
labor. A conference under the auspices of D.DR
would spell peace and good will. D.C.L. ihe
Whusky of The Wise and the member for
Humanity.*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE - LACER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Wakeful, refreshed by ten weeks rest, goes into
training for Spring engagements. The little mare should
be good for at least one more season of successes, though
■he is probably not quite the Wakeful who ran away with
tbs w.f.ft. races at the A.J.O. meeting last September.
• • • •
" Le Chasse ” observes ;
The asinine individual who decapitated the goose that
laid the golden egg is probably dead, but his relative
who races to death the horse that wins the golden prizes
is certainly very much alive, and as devoid of sense as
ever. Which reminds me that the incurable break-down
of Advance at Christchurch (M.L.) seems to be looked
upon as a national loss (which it probably is), for the
Maoriland papers are filled with letters peppering the
owner for racing a horse that squirmed every time he
put his injured foot to the ground. One writer truly
says : “ Surely such a horse might have been mercifully
treated, for if ever one did deserve consideration Advance
is the one. He certainly .does not owe his lessees any-
thing, and to attempt to grab one more stake with a
palpable cripple was simply the essence of selfish cruelty!”
Another scathing scribe, after trumping the above
remarks, says : “ One almost wishes that the parties who
were responsible for such unmerciful conduct towards a
good horse, such as Advance had proved himself, should
never again have the satisfaction of leading in a winner.”
The injured leg was placed in plaster of Paris, and the
famous black son of Vanguard is now able to walk on it;
but there is no earthly hope of his ever being seen on a
racecourse again. To secure a paltrj - prize the owner
ruined for life a probable winner of the Melbourne Cup.
• * • •
The abnormal profit over the Autumn meeting
of the A.J.O. has caused that hard-shelled body to give
a little consideration to long-standing grievances. It has
been customary to include in the season’s programme a
Trial Stakes—a kind of an event for horses who have
never won a race to the value of lOOsovs. ; but, owing to
a dispute at a Sydney suburban course as to whether
horses which dead-heated for a handicap the value of
lOOsovs. were to be considered as debarred from starting
in a race such as a Trial Stakes, an alteration has been
made substituting “prize” for “race.” It simplifies
what has long been an asses’ bridge to many horse-racing
patrons ; and, at the same time, illustrates that the A.J.C.
committee is awake sometimes.
• * • *
Turf business flourishes in the West. At Boul-
der R.O. annual meeting t’other day it was shown that
profits for the year were £7297, assets £14,050, and
liabilities nil. Operations began with a debt of £l9OO.
Kalgoorlie R.C. balance-sheet revealed a net profit of
£4610.
» » * •
“Mr. Fitzgerald” (understood to be an ex-
mayor of Adelaide) had to face a protest before he could
receive the stake for Sojourner’s Cup. The informal
entry alleged was not proved, and the stewards fined
the owner of Avalon £lO for being “frivolous.” After
paying it, he published an apology, explaining that he
had been “ entirely misled.” The inquiry into Sojourner’s
Leger running was dismissed after 18 witnesses had been
heard, the stewards finding that he had been fairly
ridden, and that they were “ unable to elicit any conclu-
sive evidence that he was by any unfair means rendered
unfit to run up to his best form.”
« • • •
Dear Bulletin. —A par in last week’s “Sporting
Notions” grieves me deeply, because it offers a dangerous
excuse for the eccentric gee-gee. He the in-and-out
running of Sojourner at Adelaide, it says : “ Likely solu-
tion of this paralysing reversal may be found in the fact
that Sojourner, not having raced for six months prior to
the St. Leger, wanted that race to tune him up.” The
suggestion of a horse needing one race in public to “ tune
him up ” to a marvellous improvement on the following
Saturday would be treated as a joke in England or
America, where a six months’ absence from the racecourse
is the rule rather than the exception. Of course, I know
that cronk owners and trainers and their press apologists
speak of the Australian gee as a piece of machinery that
needs to be badly beaten when the public put their money
on, in order that it may go faster when the public are not
on. “ Wanted a gallop to sharpen him up ”is the popular
turf gag of this country—and it calls for all the ridicule
available. An inquiry into the Sojourner scandal didn’t
reveal any cause for suspecting the stable of a swindle, so
it may be that the favorite for the Leger was taken
suddenly ill.before the race, the illness being due to cir-
cumstances over which the animal’s guardians had no
control. If we accept the other theory, how are we to
account for the comparative consistency of “form”
shown by horses in colder countries, where the champion
two-year-old of October emerges from a long winter
recess in April or May to take rank immediately as a
champion three-year-old? An intelligent trainer doesn’t
need the evidence of a public gallop to tell him whether
his gambling instrument is tuned to concert-pitch.—
Backbr Bill.
• • • •
Adjuster of starts Quinlan scored distinctly
through Haut Star’s success in Moorefield Handicap,
Saturday. Some connections insisted that the nag was
badly treated, and one actually interviewed the respon-
sible official on the subject. All the same, Haut Star
started first pick (3 to 1 against) and won after a fine
finish with Nahpro. Haut Star is by Haut Brion (imp.)
from Isolena (imp.), by Doubloon from My Lena, by
Zealot. Mr. “Sam” Hordern bred Haut Star, and
imported his dam when a foal at foot of her mother.
• • * •
Two-year-old Handicap at Moorefield on Satur-
day revealed promiser in Chamberlain, an evenly put-
together gelding by Niagara from Rose Flaneur by
Segenhoe, consequently a full brother to whilom fore-
front galloway Rose 1., and half-brother to Newmarket
Handicap winner, the Watchdog. Auld Acquaintance,
Graft, and La Vaietta were voted certainties by their
parties, but latter’s chances were nullified through her
refusal to move from the post. Chamberlain shot out
and never gave anything else a hope from jump off to
judge’s box.
t • * *
Ancient and symmetrically - structured turf-
slave, Fitzroy, tipped a “good thing” and weightily
invested upon for Stewards’ Mile at Moorefield, Saturday,
broke down hopelessly in the race, but may be saved for
the stud. Fitzroy is 10 years old, and was for long a
champion among galloways till A.J.O. lifted the embargo
placed upon nags competing at unregistered meetings.
Since then Fitzroy has done big things in N.S W., Tas.,
and Vic.; he was bred by Mr. R. C. Allen, and is by
Russley from Young Mona, by Maribyrnong from Mona
(imp.)
0 m • •
Steve Willis topped the list of winning jocks at
recent S.A.J.O. meet; he was up on winners of two
doubles—Trochon (Goodwood and Totalisator Handicap)
and Fairyland (Maiden Plate and Baker Handicap).
• • * •
Par. concerning Rapid Pilgrim (Bulletin,
23 / 5/’O3) should have finished up with information that
after win of S.A.J.'O. Handicap, Sultan of Johore gave
£4OO for him. Previous owner was very much in luck.
The £5O he got to cry the sale for £350 off, the £225
prize money subsequently won (leaving whatever betting
he indulged in out of the question), and the £5O advance
on amount originally asked for the nag, left him
£325 richer than if the first sale had been effected. How
that W.A. sport must be kicking himself at not having
gone on with the deal 1
° v- • * * •
After all, the'Sultan of Johore is buying a nag
or two in this “beastly country”; he nodded a few
times at the annual S. Aus. yearling sales, but none of
the prices were high. From David James’ lot he bought
a couple of Broken Hill colts, and from J. H. Aldridge’s
he selected a brother to Gunga Din, paying £2OO for him.
* • * •
Important turf item by last ’Ome mail is that
world’s ; sfur. record (as far as it is known) was lowered
by Master Willie when he won recent Great Surrey Han-
dicap in 56 2-ssec. Prior best on list was Maid Marian’s
(New York) 56f, which stood nine years.
Winner (Jessie) of Brisbane Cup is owned by a
Brisbane sport. She was bred by Mr. John Walsh, but
foaled at Tucka Tucka (N.S.W.), and is by Gozo from
Little Jeannie, by King Cole from Charade, by Panic
from Puzzle (imp.) by Daniel O’Rourke. Jessie first
shaped under silk in January last year, but did no good
then or in several subsequent efforts till Trial Handicap
at Tatt.’s meeting following April, when phe won. There
was a fall in the mare’s stock afterwards through a series
of defeats, but First Novice Handicap (£100) at Q.T.C.
December meeting was won by her, and in Second Novice
Handicap, next day, she ran third. Hendra Plate (£B5)
at last Boxing Day meeting of Q.T.C., and Eagle Farm
Handicap (£B5), a week later, were closed on by Jessie.
* « • •
Continuation of Q.T.C. Autumn meet, Monday,
saw another big gathering of people. Racing was in-
teresting, and backers fared fairly well —three of seven
first favorites and three other well-backed nags got home.
Ilderim (who sprang a big surprise at Randwick last
month, starting 20 to 1 against, and was subsequently
purchased by present owner) appropriated the first event
(Flying Handicap) easily. Sydney nag Curraway (heavily
backed on Leger day for race Brief won) found the High-
weight Handicap soft, settling 17 others without trouble.
Bridegroom’s showing in Queen’s Plate, Saturday, made
him look choice for Brisbane Cup (11 starters), and at
flag-fall nothing better than 2 to 1 could be had about
his chance. Jessie was second selection (4 to 1), and
6 and 7 to 1 was procurable about the next best couple,
1.0. and Heronrv. Getting near the home turn Heronry
was just in front of Jessie and Amber. First-named two
had a hot tussle to the distance, when Jessie shook
Uabba’s daughter off and won comfortably. Favorite
was never in it at any stage, being with the rearguard
nearly the whole journey. Sydney punters again fell in
badly through Purser, whom they backed against nine
others down to 2 to 1 for the Cleveland Handicap, but he
was last before half the trip had been covered, and stayed
there till the finish, pulling up apparently lame.
* * •
Opening of Q.T.C. Autumn meeting, at Eagle
Farm, Brisbane, Saturday, had exceptionally good
weather, and attracted a big crowd. Compared with
last year, tote biz. only fell off slightly. Feature of the
programme was that Ormond Lodge stable (Waiter
Blaoklock’s) provided four winners (Brief, Bridegroom,
Whitebait and Balfour), who secured Welter Handicap,
Queen’s Plate, Autumn Stakes and St. Leger respectively.
Sydney visitors mustered in strong force, but experienced
a bad time. Trouble began in the first event (Welter
Handicap), when Curraway, a warm favorite at 2 to 1
against, went down before outsider Brief, who paid £8
10s. on a 10s. tote. Stradbroke Handicap saw more Corn-
stalk nags beaten. Queen’s Plate (w.f.a.) was disastrous,
for Purser (6 to 4 against), Contest and others were
squelched by Bridegroom (10 to 1). Winner had pre-
viouslj’ gathered a few races, but wasn’t considered near
the same class as Purser. Bridegroom is a big slashing
nag by King Olaf, whom he very much resembles. Race
was only won through sheer gameness, for, at the pinch,
Purser fought out every yard. Balfour’s appropriation
of the St. Leger evidences he has got back some of the
form that pulled him through the Q.T.C. Derby and Cup,
and is much ahead of what he showed at recent (April)
big Randwick meeting. Race was depressingly slow.
• • * *
Death of Martini-Henry, t’other day, reminds
that he was the first of the Muskets and the last but one
of Sylvia’s sons. M.H.’s big feats in spring of 20 years
ago made his then owner (Hon. Jas. White) get Norden-
feldt and Matchlock from M.L. Nordenfeldt appropriated
A.J.C. and V.R.O. Derbies, while Matchlock won A.J.O.
and V.R.C. St. Legers and Champion Stakes. Sylvia
was 16 years old when she threw Martini. Biggest
winners among dead stallion’s get were perhaps Rudolph
(£5520), Sinecure (£1667), and Singapore (V.R.C. Derby).
High-class nags, Brakpan and Grasspan, are from Mar-
tini-Henry’s daughter, Piecrust, and Scorn and Scornful
are from another daughter, Tea Rose.
« * » •
Someone has unearthed the fact that 11 of the
17 big handicaps decided in N.S.W. and Victoria during
present season have been won by mares—a record surely.
* * • *
Travelling with a racehorse is no joke in North
Queensland. An owner recently took a neddy from
Croydon to Georgetown. Continuous rain soddened and
soured his supply of feed, and the horse had to keep fit
on grass till Georgetown was reached. There 201 b. of
chaff were purchased at 3d. per lb. Still the horse won
the big money on a course mostly rock and sand patches.
* • * •
“Le Ohasse” on coming changes in racing:
“ What good management can do to boom racing can be
seen from the fact that the ‘ gates ’ for the last Onka-
paringa meeting brought £6lO at auction. Which means
that before the purchaser made a penny profit he had to
collect Is. each from 2200 persons—members need not
pay the shilling, and quite a number of fence-vaulters
would not. That a club racing at a small township over
20 miles from Adelaide should secure a larger attendance
than can be got together for the Adelaide Cup, and nearly
as large as went to see Wakeful win the Sydney Cup,
seems extraordinary, and clearly proves the right class
of men are at the head of affairs. One of the
leaders is Mr. Von Doussa, who in 1905 will have been
running the Onkaparinga race show for 30 years, and in
celebra ion of that event the committee has decided to
give £'2ooo to the Onkaparinga Steeplechase. This looks as
if the * illegitimate ’ would soon put down the legitimate
game altogether. London sporting papers declare the
Liverpool Grand National now excites more interest than
the Epsom Derby ; and it is on the cards that the Onka-
paringa Steeplechase may yet outclass Melbourne Cup in
the matter of public interest. When Tormentor won the
Onka. Steeple in 1876 the stake was only £2O. To boom
the race still further, Mr. Von Doussa intends to insist,
by way of securing the best leppers for his big race, that
the handicapper must not go beyond 13st. A better way
would be to lower the minimum, which is now 9st., but
that is not popular, although, as things stand, our handi-
caps are rapidly approaching weight for age.”
• • * «
“ Bob” Sevier, the well-known “ plunger,” and
owner of the sensational racing mare Sceptre and other
more-or-less erratic equines in England, has taken to
scribbling articles in the London papers, but his latest
gibe against the starting-gate hardly becomes the owner
of such aristocratic steeds. His main grievances are but
a laudation of the troubles which led to the universal
acceptance of the machine in Australia —an invention
which wiped out the bribing of the starter, so that a
particular gee-gee may not get a “ go ” on the field.
Still, with all his screeches, Sevier isn’t likely to do away
with the invention, which has come to stay in all civilised
countries where fairness is a consideration.
• • * •
A very well-known London authority on boat-
racing is noted for his remarkable resemblance to the late
Archbishop of Canterbury. On one occasion he boarded
an omnibus, and the conductor at once informed the
driver that Dr. Temple, or his twin brother, had just got
inside. “ You’d better arst ’im, if you ain’t sure,” said
the driver. The conductor entered the ’bus, and,
addressing the supposed Primate, asked: “ Beggin’
your reverence’s pardon, but might you be the
Harchhishop of Canterbury?” “Oh, go to h 1!”
replied the eminent writer. The conductor returned to
the driver, and whispered to him : “ It’s all right, Bill ;
it is ’is ’oliness ! ”
* * • . ! •
Arthur Shrewsbury, the Nottinghamshire bats-
man, committed suicide last week to rid himself of an
internal complaint. At the age of 47, when he died,
Shrewsbury was playing the game in his “sound” way
as skilfully as in days of yore, when Lohmann said of
him—“ There’s a batsman ! The best in the world,
probably ; but I wouldn’t go across the road to see him
play.” A stodgily artistic performer, never missing a
legitimate chance to stop the ball with his pads if he
couldn’t place it with his bat, Shrewsbury couldn’t be
induced to take any risks. It was useless for bowlers to
try the off-theory with him. He would let ball after ball
pass him without attempting to strike, except on rare
occasions if he was wanted to force the pace. Australia
saw Shrewsbury at his best in ’B4 to ’B9, when he and
Alfred Shaw brought out English teams—the last one
clashing with another visiting team, captained by VV. W.
Read, and imported by Melbourne Cricket Club. The
history of the best known men who were associated with
Shrewsbury in those English elevens is not encouraging
to professional cricketers. Scotton, the stonewaller,
committed suicide years before his accomplished captain
followed suit. Merry Billy Bates went blind—or was it
mad ? Briggs certainly died of brain disease. Lohinann,
the consumptive, has gone. George Ulyett didn t make
old bones. Evidently cricket is not such ft healthful
profession as the church.
■ • • V
Victorian Football League’s venture—sending
two crack teams (Fitzroy and Collingwood) to Sydney to
play their match of season’s premiership competition for
the purpose of popularising the Australian game—drew
nearly 20,000 to Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday,
and should go far in the direction of achieving the end
aimed at. Piay was high-class always, bar “picking up,”
which fell short of top-notch form on occasions. Colling-
woods made things warm from the start, and close of first
“quarter” saw them 20 to 9 best. Next term play
waxed hotter and faster. Fitzroys pulled up cleverly,
and were 2 to the good—29 to 27. Thenceforth Fitzroys
showed superiority, and won, 7 goals 19 behinds to 6
goals 9 behinds—6l points to 45. Gate totalled £7OO,
and this will augment the fund for settling the Aus-
tralian game on a sound basis in N.S.W. Victorian
League magnanimously pays ex’s, of contending com-
binations. The defeated men were last season’s pre-
miers.
* * *
The white ant of discontent which well-nigh
brought about the demise of N.S.W. League of Wheelmen
a few years ago threatens to make headway again. The
trouble has been brewing ever since the members of the
League deposed last year’s secretary, and installed in his
stead a gentleman who wasn’t held in very great esteem
by the League Council. Consequently there was friction ;
and when the game of grab for expenses of officials was
tried recently upon the co. which advertised a record-
breaking affair, and the secretary gave an opinion that
the charge was unjust, the matter reached a head. Last
year’s successful racing season seems to have given
“ swollen head ” to the League promoters ; but when the
execrable bungling of the League during last season is
remembered, that body has nothing to be proud of. At
any rate, one thing is certain : the public don’t care a rap
who runs the bike-show so long as it is done decently and
above suspicion, and if the N.S.W. League of Wheelmen
won’t do the management properly and without such
inward discontent, it had better wipe itself out.
• * * •
It takes a good deal of combined ingenuity and
perjury to come even within tolerable distance of the
Yankee press. When the dark flyer Taylor was competing
in Sydney Thousand, the American Bicycling World was
supposed to receive a cable, which is translated thusly :
“ In the Sydney Thousand, which was won by Hopper,
the Minneapolis lad (Taylor) won his heat in fine style,
and in the semi-final he looked like winning when he was
deliberately run wide. The offence was so flagrant that
the immense crowd present broke down the fence and
mobbed the rider* who were plainly in the deal to pre-
vent the negro from getting in front. The police inter-
fered, and the race was postponed for the day. Taylor
was carried in triumph to his dressing-room, with a
cheering crowd following.” As a matter of fact there
wa* no demonstration—simply a few hoots and groans.
* * • »
The much talked of benefit to “Bobby” Walne
at last verges on reality, and will very likely take place
on June Bth. Walne is still in private hospital with a
smashed knee-cap ; and if any rider deserves a “ bumper *
benefit, it is the plucky Queensland rider. Certainly.no
bikist ever had more serious accidents, or had to put up
with more mere “places” in handicaps and champion-
ships; but, as a “ straight ” rider, he has justified good
opinions from the public. All the same, it would have
been more to the honor of racing men if they had com-
bined with the “ cycle-traders” to raise the benefit, but
racing-bikists have always been a poor lot, with no
thought for anybody or any thing other than their pockets,
• • * •
Fearful were some of the bicycles used during
the Vic. railway. strike in Melbourne. The old early
safety raced and wheezed side by side with the older
high “ ordinary.” Cushion and solid tyres bumped along
everywhere, or dropped down the slit in the tram track.
Strike week reminded one of a Resurrection Day for
bicycles, gone-before buggies, &c.
* • • *
Recollections of perhaps the greatest sculler
Australia ever owned are revived by the information that
his mother (Mrs. Searie) died on' the Lower Clarence
(N.S.W’.) last week, cetat 67. She had lived in the district
40 years.
• • • «
Second struggle for Australasian light-weight
premiership between Jack M’Gowan and (holder) Bob
Turner, took place at Her Majesty’s, Kalgoorlie (W.A.),
last week, and 1600 people paid £1 Is., 10s. 6d., 7s. 6d.
or ss. each to look on. House was packed 1£ hours before
proceedings opened, and at least 500 were turned away.
Purse offered totalled £275. Combat proved grimly
determined from go, each putting heaps of vim into his
work. Turner forced the pace and fought the dwarfed
giant into corners frequently, punching hard with a left
that worked like a piston. Fifth and sixth rounds saw
M’Gowan comparatively weak, but in the seventh he
came strong, and, keeping his end up, next two belonged
to him, but not by much. Second half of battle was all
Turner; t’other chap fought like a demon through last
two rounds and tried every dodge to get a knock-out
punch home, but Turner was too wary—he kept the right
glove covering the “ point ” well, as is his worit. Turner’s
showing was a revelation to the crowd, who didn’t think
it possible for any man in his class to beat M’Gowan fair
and square.
♦ * * »
Negro Savral came from Melbourne to New-
castle expressly to make Wailsend lad Paddy King fight
—a mission that called for little effort. Both trained well
and last week met in Victoria Theatre, Newcastle, before
» crowded hou»e. The contest was bitter throughout, in-
fighting being a strong feature. The pair hit and roughed
in clinches with a will and a spite that was hair-raising in
its earnestness. Seconds and ringsiders roared “foul”
frequently and, truth to tell, both sides did things that
set one guessing what rules governed the brawl—they
were certainly not Queensberry. In the tenth round
Savral had King done beyond the possibility of coming to
inside lOsecs., but a “barney” saved the local crack.
King stood a terrible lot of punishment and, up to the
17th, the black’s prospects looked more than good ; but
during that 3mins. he got one on the jaw which spread-
eagled him and the minute’s spell was badly needed. In
the next term Savral encountered a parlous period, going
to the boards three times and on the third occasion was
counted out. Nothing but marvellous condition and
wonderful pluck enabled King to survive the stiffest task
of his career.
« • * •
Biggest crowd ever seen at Sydney Gaiety A.C.
watched, Saturday night, “Props” Reader (“Props”
through his one-time vocation) and Jack Conlon scrag
maul and pummel each other like men beside themselves!
Oonlon sent Reader prone several times, but Reader was
erect instanter and a mad bull immediately afterwards-
rushing in head down and hitting, shoving, and tearing
at any part of Conlon’s anatomy he could get near or lay
hold of. “ Props” knocked Conlon down in one round
and several times they bumped the floor together, once
or twice dragging referee Harry Dawson with them, and
then the three wriggled, writhed, and panted in a con-
fused mass till they disentangled themselves. The referee
was generally first up. When Reader wasn’t hanging
round Oonlon’s neck he was clinging to his legs. It was
the toughest of Rugby football matches one moment and
a bewildering blend of every ’rastling code the next. All
the time the house was pandemonium. Whenever
“ Props” got up before Conlon, Dawson was set a difficult
task keeping him off the prostrate man, and in the last
round the referee had to hold Reader whilst counting
Conlon out *mid a deafening uproar that prevented any-
one hearing the time told off. Directly the verdict was
given a man at the ringside rushed the referee and
punched him twice. It was the worst thing seen in a
Sydney boxing ring and twice went near being a riot.
• • • •
N.S.W. Sports Club has decreed that the bil-
liard amateur of the future must be the pure article, and
not the mixed indefinable thing of the past—he must not
henceforth compete against a professional “ for a prize of
any description or in an exhibition.” This effectively
stops the all-aged amateur who often played in a tourna-
ment where betting was big, and met professionals and
others, and still remained eligible to line-up for the
amateur championship; it also blocks the “amateur”
who exhibited with a professional, or who played a match
in a public hall—“ just because some friends had backed
him to beat the other man.” Hitherto the billiard-marker
has been a free-and-easy sort of amateur, but, from now
on, he’ll find himself very much hampered by limits.
* • • *
N.S.W. National Coursing Association’s first
meeting of the season, last week, at Rooty Hill, didn’t
promise too well for the future. Derby and Oaks (each a
32 puppy stake) only had 27 and 17 respectively. Con-
ditions generally were ahead of previous years. Weather
could not have been better. Going was excellent, and
hares an unusually stout and well-trained lot; though
close on 100 courses were run only 12 of them failed to
make home. Old man courser Weir’s two—Wapping and
Watt (litter brothers by Black Douglas-Goldsmith’9
Maid) —whacked the Derby, while Messrs. Evans and
Nichoils’ bitch puppy Chit Chat (Goldsmith-Rowena)
scooped the Oaks decisively. Nothing approaching a
Waterloo Cup winner was seen out; barring the possi-
bility of a better Victorian, N.S.W. hound Great Heart
looks sure for that event, which takes place next month.
* • • *
Balfour, winner of Q.T.C. St. Leger, Satur-
day, was bred by Mr. Frank Darley at Runinoon station,
near Nnnango, and is by Little Bernie from Trentrose, by
Trenton, from Guelder Rose by Kingston; he shaped
first as a 3-year old (last August), and closed on an un-
important event ; following November saw Queensland
Guineas come his way, then Q.T.C. Derby and Cup, and
Stanley Plate.
For the vacant Vice-Presidency of the
Executive Council (N.S.W.) Colonel Mackay and
Dr. J. B. Nash are mentioned as likely candidates
by the daily press. The See Government should
have no difficulty in making a choice. Dr. Nash
would be a great source of strength to the Cabinet
in democratic circles.
Melbourne University undergrads, seemed
to sympathise with the unspeakable Bent in the
Victorian railway crisis. Sydney University
men, we are glad to say, took the side of law and
order and decency, and, through their Union, car-
ried a resolution supporting the action of the
men in going out on strike. And the Sydney
press has entered into a conspiracy of silence to
keep the fact dark.
BUSH CRICKET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the sky is turning crimson, and a gentle hush is
stealing ,
O’er the earth where lights and shadows coyly flirt ana
interweave, .
When our cares and worries vanish in that soothing restful
feeling,
That cometh gently o’er us at the soft approach of eve ;
Then the boys begin to gather in the paddock near the
station,
And old Jackson lays the matting, and his son puts up
the net, . ,
While the little teacher, Parker, bosses, fussing round,
impatient,
And Tom Daniels from the “public” fetches up the
cricket kit.
Each man takes his turn at batting, from the parson to
the copper, . ■ , ...
Who has left his shining helmet with his horse outside
the fence, ... ,
And he grins and takes no notice of the blacksmiths
words improper,
As he wields the willow wildly with quite needless
violence. . ....
All are jolly, some excited, and big Jack, the drover,
more so,
When he gets a fiery yorker on his unprotected shin,
And the language that he uses is curse language full of
gore, so
The others do their hardest to conceal a silent grin.
But the shadows creep and thicken, and it grows too
dark for cricket,
While the last man hits out wildly at the balls he cannot
And it’s risking mutilation to be standing at the wicket,
When old Bandy Bill is bowling, and the dusk is on the
lea.
So we leave the ground to darkness, and the matting at
the toolhouse,
And the boys troop pub or homewards through the silent
sleepy town,
While the frogs croak down the river, and the eerie
moonlight streaming,
Paints the pitch a belt of silver on a dewy sward of brown.
J. McCLELLAND.


A FEW DAYS HORE.
Don’t throw away the chance of a lifetime-for on
Sale of Second-Hands
anTfiUedwah £w Dunlop “ lling Bike8 ’ in G °° D ° RDKR ’
Oceanic Tyres.
and y ta a ki7our y chore re ’ “* BikeS left ’
Call at once
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches In Every State. 357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mail orders, covering Post Office Orders, will receive fair and square treatment.
REMINGTON
YOU GET THE BEST YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23 6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
NEW RED BIRDS.
Our New Models, 1903, have proved a great success. Made especially for rough Australian
roads, they have proved equal to all trials demanded of them.
They are beautiful in finish, strong and serviceable in wear, and easy and comfortable to ride.
For road-racing they are all that could be desired.
A visit would be cordially appreciated, and you will not be pressed to purchase.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., Sydney.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the line
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
/
*
It keeps a duplicate of bill* you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
. From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
Agents for Australasia.: E. RICH & CO. LTD., sydnev BRIBBANE
Victorian railway commissioner is now
beginning to find out the danger of putting a new
blackleg to an old boiler.
George Reid, at Devonport (Tas.), told his
audience that “the trade of Great Britain was
greater than that ot France, Germany and Russia
combined, ” which was a gorgeous discrepancy or
falsehood, to the extent that the trade of the three
States named exceeds that of Britain by about
£100,000,000 a year. He poured forth about a
column of other Freetrade figures, hardly one of
which would bear inspection any better than the
above sample, and then the hat was sent round,
and the collection was 4s. fid. When the barrel-
organ stops, the monkey generally collects about
that much.
Even Sydney Telegraph, while “bar-
racking” for Bent, proved him to be the worst
sort of a failure. It explained why he was wanted :
It had become imperative that something should be
done to stop the gap between receipts and expenditure.
The railways were losing over a thousand a day (£365,000
a year).
So Bent, “the strong man,” was taken on; and
he began his “strong” policy of sack, yell, and
bounce. The result:
To-day the loss is roughly estimated at hatf-a-million
a year.
Thus Bent’s “economies” have added about 40 per
cent, to the loss ; and still he is “ the strong man ”
who must be stuck to.
F. B. Suttor has been chosen by the
Government for the vacant Presidency of the
N.S.W. Leg. Council. Mr. Suttor is at present
Vice-President of the Executive Council, and will f
fill the new office with marked dignity. Dignity
and spotless respectability form, indeed, Mr.
Suttor’s entire political stock-in-trade. At one
time he used to be a member of almost every N.S.W.
Ministry—Freetrade or Protectionist —agreeably
adapting his views as necessary; as the one
entirely respectable man in politics at the time,
lie was supposed to be essential to every Cabinet
combination. He held office in two Parkes
Ministries, two Dibbs Ministries, and also under
Jennings, Lyne, and See.
The Bulletin regrets to find that it
didn’t, in its recent articles, do full justice to
Victorian Premier Irvine’s Strike Suppression
Bill. There was one clause which it partially
overlooked. That Bill made it punishable with
w£loo fine and 12 months gaol to speak dis-
paragingly about the small boy of any one of
Bent’s blacklegs, or the small boy of any man
who had asked Bent for a job, or had been offered
a job by Bent. Even if a Victorian citizen at,
say, Portland remarked to his wife, however
truly, that Smith’s boy, in Gippsland, was a thief
or a larrikin, he became liable to the above penal-
ties, provided Smith had “ applied ” —sav if he
had turned up drunk at Bent’s office and asked for
work, and been promptly driven off the premises.
It is a pity that Bill didn’t pass. Its withdrawal
spoiled the most insane joke of the century.
TTiOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-C ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King- Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. P~oprietor — GEO. IF. ELLIS.
SHARPSHOOTINg
'/v For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. 17. CRIENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCK LAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Hepi esentative).
HAND-IN-HAND
forEIGHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar,
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shaving Stick.
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
Ifyoudoubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you why.
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glas-
tonbury, Conn., U.S.A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VENTILATION.
“ Our own breath i* our greateet enemy.”
NO MORB STUFFY ROOMS OR MEPHITIC ATHOSPHERE.—A person finds a room stuffy, opens the
window, sits In a draught and pays the penalty, and forthwith blames the fresh air. It must be admitted
that hitherto it has been a choice of evils, whether to breathe the polluted air of a room or run the risk of
oold from the draught of an open window or door. BUT ALL THIS IS NOW CHANGED.
THE PULLMAN AUTOHATIC VENTILATOR (the invention of the famous inventor and builder of the
luxurious Pullman Railway Carriages) admits into any room equipped with it a constant supply of outside fresh air
free from dust, smoke, or wet, and ABSOLUTELY WITHOUT DRAUGHT, irrespective of weather conditions. It
gently diffuses the air and also acts as an exhaust. IT SOLVES ABSOLUTELY THE PROBLEM OF HEALTHY
VENTILATION. For sleeping apartments, offices, hospitals, lodge and smoking rooms, factories, habs, public
buildings, enclosed vehicles, schools, churches, &c., the invention is invaluable. It can be fitted to the window or
brickwork without disfiguring the original structure, and cost is so moderate as to bring the invention within reach
of the householder of most modest means. VENTILATE AND THUS REMOVE ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL
CAUSES OF LOST HEALTH AND PREMATURELY LOST LIVES. Particulars on application.
The Pullman Automatic Ventilator Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
MUTUAL LIFE OF NEW YORK BUILDINGS, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
Aobnts wantkd in Evbry Town in Australia And at WELLINGTON, N.Z.
The Vic. engine drivers’ strike, brief as
it was, cost poor Theodore Fink a fiver. Melbourne
Herald of Saturday, May 9th (first night of the
Strike) read almost as The Bulletin might have
done. On Sunday a meeting of the bosses was
held. On Monday came complaints from the anti-
strikers of “the lack of patriotism displayed by
certain sections of the press.” And then Theo.
Fink subscribed his ‘fiver’ to the . “ Loyalist
Drivers and Firemen’s Fund.” And the Herald
didn’t read like The Bulletin any more.
The trouble in the Vic. Railway Service
has not been ended by the conclusion of the strike.
A thousand pities that the men and the Govt,
could not have settled their differences amicably
by an impreju I iced appeal to D.C.L. Whisky.
That wise and sunny beverage acts like music on
the pertubed spirit. It hath charms to soothe
the most savage Bent. It oreates humane senti-
ment. D.C.L. The Whusky of the Wise.*
.««<•’
JOVX
iro^
C&U
\>oo
,tt» a
outs 0
t\vetu
do s °
to
IS
S*
c°
•t y>®
THE DUNLOP
CUSHION HEEL
makes a wonderful
difference in walking,
affording great comfort
by preserving the
cushion tread. It ab-
sorbs all jarring, and
will outlast two or-
dinary loather heels.
Maue in all sizes, for
Ladies and Gents. In
ordering specify Size
No. of boots worn, or
send drawing of boot
heel. Instructions and
Nails for fitting packed
in box. Price, 2/- pair.
Posted. 2 4.
From all Storekeepers,
or diiect from us.
67\|\0
CUSHION HEEL
0 0 o
ushion
Heels.
Will enable You to Walk on hard pave-
Iments with absence of Jarrinft and
Sore feet.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co olAusitci 108 FliSers st. Melbourne.
(50 Clarence 5t SydneyJl.s.W. Il7orcnfell 51. Adelaide.s A. ZSAdtlaide
5t BrubaneQ.W Barrack st.Perth.W A l? 8 Lichfieldsl Chch .NZ.
ft
cq
\s
vfO^
At©*
tied 8.
bo«
li 1
At Poverty Point.
Joseph Wilson, who has roamed Australia for 15 months
with Frank Thornton, leaves by the Omrah on June 6 to
fill a London engagement. He is known to Australian
theatre-goers in the character of old Oattermole, and in
many other parts. In England he was the original
sailor in Hood and Slaughter’s comedy, “The French
Maid,” which had a run of over years in London and
the provinces.
“X.”: Edward Lloyd, the aged English tenor, sailed
from Melbourne last week (11 days after his final concert),
and the daily papers, which had gushed so extravagantly
over his platform performances, didn’t even trouble to
mention his departure. Lloyd went away unhonored,
unsung, forgotten. To see him on the boat—a short,
bow-windowed, white-haired man, with a red and rather
puffy face—was to marvel at the recklessness of Williain-
son-Musgrove in combining to import such a star so soon
after Melba had impoverished the market for musical
attractions. The Lloyd engagement resulted in a heavy
loss, of course. The expenses were very heavy, and Mel-
bourne, where nine out of 16 concerts took place, seems
to have taken the old gentleman’s measure very fairly
by the time he had completed his first batch of five con-
certs. Undoubtedly he deteriorated during his short
stay in Australia. He took breath like a steam-engine
on one occasion when I heard him.
The Adelaide Blind Asylum, which took £4OOO and
cleared £3OOO in a fortnight’s floral fair last month, has
had an unpleasant shock in the shape of a legal demand
from parties in Melbourne who claim to hold the copy-
right for Australia of “ Living Whist.” The claim is said
to be one-third of all the gate-money on the four nights
when this item formed the chief (though not the only)
attraction, and presumably the matter will be fought out.
The dances and processions of the living “cards" were
mostly of local devising, and it is difficult to see how the
mere idea of playing a game with human material could
be copyrighted.
Died in Launceston hospital, the other day, Ralph
Brown, one-time Methodist parson, who promised to
bt come one of the big guns of the black-coated brigade,
but the land-boom and other things brought about his
defection from the cloth. Latterly, he eked out a liveli-
hood as an itinerant lecturer, his “ Heads and Faces ”
lecture being an old standby. Rather a handsome man,
with a terribly harsh voice, Ralph Brown was an interest-
ing preacher, and had claims to smartness. At one period
of his “ boom ’’-time speculations he thought he was worth
£50,000, but, when the bubble burst, he was hopelessly
involved. Heart-disease carried him off—age not stated.
Miss Maud Milton, who acts so gracefully and elocutes
so poetically, as Hermia in “ The Dream,” wall play the
chuckle-headed Audrey in “As You Like ft.” A fine
actress when she gets the chance, Miss Milton didn’t
get much show during the ten years of her lucrative
engagement with Irving’s company. She is said to have
made a great hit in “The Pointsman,” as the wayward
girl w’ho lived with the villain, and was afterwards made
respectable and miserable by marrying a railway porter—
the character in which Maud Williamson scored her
first Australian success. If she can fit herself to the low
comedy part of Audrey there’s no saying what Miss
Milton can’t do.
Carrie Moore takes a farewell benefit at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) this week, and departs for London under engage-
ment, to George Edwardes. Carrie is very young, and
considerably spoilt by having been promoted to leading
parts before she wa3 full-grown. Everything she does —-
dressing, talking, acting, or singing—is overdone. Her
accent and enunciation are foreign to her language. She
needs reforming altogether. When Carrie Moore’s large,
round eyes have been opened to the truth, and her
natural sprightliness and pluck are turned to the best
account, she will probably achieve a position in England
as a comedienne with an exceptionally good voice.
Carrie’s high notes are bright, sweet, and pure evep now
after she has “knocked her voice to pieces’’ in a cant
way of speaking. Careful tuition and a rest from hard
work may effect a vast improvement in Carrie’s warble.
It wants nursing and training to make it her most valua-
ble asset —her principal charm. But in the meantime
the damsel’s admirers have doubtless persuaded her that
she is a whole bundle of superlative charms.
The late “ Max O’Rell ” (Paul Blouet) was almost
careful enough of his small change to have been born
north instead of south of England. One night, during
his Australian lecturing tour, he almost melted to tears
over the thought of the French peasant woman. Max
had, of course, served in the army, and the goodness,
the generosity, of that French peasant woman he
would never forget. It was up-countrv, and there
happened just then to be stranded in the
local hospital a French peasant, woman, a
widow, homeless, moneyless, almost friendless.
After the lecture, with the lecturer’s warm
panegyric still in their ears, they went to him for help
for his “angel-woman,” in the full assurance of a sove-
reign, and perhaps five. They got a shilling. After that,
that particular community never swallowed O’Rell with-
out adding a large quantity of salt. And he seemed to
write as he spoke—with his tongue in his cheek most-of
the time.


0
&
h
J
PD917013
OODEN’J
°\°! G-ft <=>
J LO? CIGARETTES
“The Lancet” says =
“We found that OGDEN’S GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES were composed of light Virginia leaf and were quite free from
objectionable flavoring materials.”
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD, (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
Uncle Sara may not care to enter into a
hard and fast alliance with John Bull, but, if
necessary, he will hold the latter’s hat while the
fight is on.—lndianapolis Journal. Query :
Will Bull get the bat back again after the tight is
over T
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
About the only reminders of the late un-
lamented Melbourne Federal Exhibition are the
one or two isolated certificates of award that
appear in a corner shop or two. The design con-
sists of the necessary female figure, apparently
about Bft. high, with a head the shape of an egg,
and clothed in a white night-gown. One hand
grasps the conventional spear to which is attached
the Australian flag, the other holds a shield
emblazpned with the national coat of arms. The
Exhibition buildings constitute a background,
and the lone female seems to have forgotten most
of her clothes before she came out of doors.
Eminent racing hog descanting on female
virtue in the bar of a Melb. pub.:—
I seeri a real shine piece come outer a shop in Bourke-
street an’get inter a Carlton ’bus. In I gets after'er,
and I tips a wink to ’er, but blessed if she comes to it.
So when we gets goin’, “ Good evenin’,” says I. But she
jess turns 'er ’ead the other way and says nothink. So
what does I do but I brings a 'an’ful of thick-uns outer
me pocket so’se she could see ’em, an’ I says “ I’m a chap
that always treats a girl like a real toff, I am. Come ’an
’ave supper with me an’ yer can ’ave a score if yer only
say the word.” An’what does she do but she stops the
concern and gets out. (Pause —to let the astounding
informruion soak into the intellects of the hearers.) Yer
mightiut believe it, yer know, but some of these girls in
shops is" quite respectable.
A Melbourne bench struck a choice item
in the cleanliness line t’other day, when it learnt
that a witness—one Hassan, a Turkey-lolly man—
dwelt with his wife in one room, which was
kitchen, bedroom, dining-room and lolly-factory.
And when little Johnny spends a penny on
Turkey-lolly and subsequently succumbs to
typhoid, his mother wonders where on earth he
got it.
A Coronation contingenter writes :
Most pathetic figure I saw in London was a. stranded
Australian. He bitterly contrasted London in its atti-
tude to us, with a colonial uniform and loose cash, with
the London as it looked to him, with his empty pocket.
‘l’m satisfied about this England,’ he said ; ‘you’re all
right if you’ve got money, but a respectable dog has a
better time if you have none. It’s a hard battle when
you’re down here ; not like Australia. You can abso-
lutely starve here and no one wil! even give you a crust.’
I suggested enlistment in the Army- He thought that
the last thing for an Australian. ‘lt would be hard
luck,’ he said, ‘ for me tb have to chuck myself away in
the British army, after what we know about them from
being in South Africa. I’m satisfied about this England,
though. Only let me get back to Australia.’ I have
never forgotten that pathetic figure, so ill fitted by his
Australian bringing up to battle amongst the hopelessly
submerged of London. I imagined myself, khaki and
cock’s leathers gone, a month after the coronation,
receiving no homage from the hysterical Londoners, and
dining, if lucky, on a herring and penn’orth of fried
’taters instead of receiving the bill of fare from .an
obsequious waiter at an hotel.
IS MOST ANNOYING.
A cold at this season is most annoying, and
should not be neglected. Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy will relieve the lungs, make expectora
tion easy, effect a quick cure, and leave the system
in a healthy condition. It always cures, and
cures quickly. Is. 6d. #
/
\
m.
%
\/l
FREE! FREE!
Cut this out and send it to us, and we will
send you free, postage prepaid, in plain wrapper,
a copy of the New Edition of our splendid, in-
valuable and standard illustrated medical work,
“Electro Therapeutics,” which acknowledged
medical treatise should be read by every adult.
The Twentieth Century Belt
Our Improved Belt is the most modern and perfect in the world.
It is stronger than any other, and is a Certain Cure for All Cases
of Nervous Disorders, Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver,
Kidney and Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go Pains, and that Tired
Feeling. It will cure after all others fail. Our Belt gives a soothing,
warm, strengthening and delightful current of electricity into the
afflicted nerves and system while you sleep. It never blisters or
burns the body, because it is constructed to give electricity in a
proper way.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
Others claim this, but I am the only one who will really"send a
valuable belt absolutely free, on tridl, for three months. If you
are cured I know you will willingly pay ; if you are not cured, you
will not have to pay one penny. Write at once, or call and test
my Belt free. No charge for personal consultation.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. ( De p*- M ->.
49 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
- confidential.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured bv taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALT’ALINE Vitality Pills which have cured so iaiaiis
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he wi
•give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don t despair, bu
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALFA-LINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders. Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HEItP
R ASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . . .
Herr Rassmussen's Head Office-
-547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE = 150 Bourke St.
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N-Z.: 91 Lambfcon Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALHOORUE : 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY •• Piesse St,


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that denes ail
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round whichtne sain
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the P ower
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and nao
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation \ but do not, fori lain
CURE YOU. 1 don’t say perhaps ; but I Because
others have failed if no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT »nd PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Leg«,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per box. Prepared bv
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ; KLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for. th* registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green label on each box. (Kegd. copyrights
MIDDLE AGE.
Joints grow stiff—Twinges of Gout —Rheumatic Pains
—Digestive troubles —Disinclination for exertion
Backache.
THE CAUSE. THE CURE.
In the majority of cases when a person gets to be over the age of forty, a-^^"somethi that
subtly makes itself felt. Nothing particular to grumble about, but stall !ihere s somel ■
forces him to admit to himself that he is not as young as he was. In a larg P P become stiff*
however, the advance of middle age is heralded in a more emphatic mannei. , J • sharp pain
twinges of Gout are felt, Rheumatic and Neuralgic pains begin to trouble nioumS that
in the back when rising from a stooping posture, a good meal is eaten ther e is
presently they will be sorry that they ate it, the bladder becomes weak although
unfortunately, no means of preventing the advance of age, it is possible to ward off 1
long period if adequate care is taken to see that
THE KIDNEYS AND THE LIVER
are in good working order. When these vital organs are efficiently performing their office the
encroachments of age are always gradual and painless.
The Kidneys. —lt is the duty of the kidneys to rid the body of certain urinary poisons. The
kidneys of the average person filter from the blood about three pints e ' . a -\'i tpr . t
water should be dissolved waste matter, produced by the wear and decay of the tissues, to> the> e.
of one ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains, in weight, of uric acid and other urnrna . and mi.
matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. If the kidneys are wea . ‘ V
certain proportion of this waste urinary matter remains in the system and causes us . •
Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Ansmi ,
Debility, Gravel, Stone and Bladder Troubles. When the kidneys are properly doing their
work none of these complaints can exist, as the causative poisons are then duly remo\ ed 1
manner.
People approaching middle life are very prone to suffer from kidney disease, the commonest first
symptom of which is
PAIN IN THE BACK.
A simple test to make as to the condition of the kidneys, is to place some urine, passed the*
thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until the next morning. If it is en y*
shows a sediment like brick-dust, if particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural co om, .
time should be lost in adopting remedial measures, or Brights’ Disease, Diabetes or some o i
illness will be the result.
Warner’s Safe Cure
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner s
Safe Cure. It was realized, at the outset of the investigation, tnat it was necessary to find a curative
agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these two organs being so
immediately associated in the work of dealing with the waste products of the body. Since the
discovery of Warner’s Safe Cure it is not necessary for anyone to suffer from any of the complaints
mentioned above as resulting from uric poisoning, nor from Indigestion, Biliousness, .Jaundice, Sick-
headache nor Blood disorders, which are all caused by the retention of Biliary poisons due to disease
or inactivity of the liver. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver
and all complaints produced by inefficient action of those vital organs.
Mr. Chas. Brown, of 5 Rule Street, Richmond, says “ For quite ten years I suffered from
kidney and bladder complaint, and, although I consulted doctor after doctor and spent a small for-
tune in medicines, I obtained no relief whatever until I began to take Warner s Safe Cura 1 used
to get up four or five times in the night. As soon as I started taking Warners Safe Cure, the
difficulty grew less. I continued to take the medicine regularly, and soon a marked improvement m
my health took place. lam now as nearly in perfect health as I can ever expect to be. I never
rise more than once during the night. lam very thankful that I heard of Warner s Safe Cure, and
more thankful still that I gave it a trial, as I despaired of ever obtaining relief.
A treatise setting forth full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and the diseases it cures,
will be sent free on application by H. H. Warner and Co., Limited, Australasian Branch, Mel-
bourne, Vic.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C.P. and C.L.)or Government Stock of
any of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Bates of Interest. i
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any finer
Y Ask for...
KNORR’S
Ready
IVlade
Dried-
A SOUP
It is . .
Known
as the
Best ..
King Marine Oil Engines.
2\ to 500 H.P. "1903 MODELS.
Estimates given for Fitting Cargo Boats, Tug Boats, Fishing Boats and Trawlers, Auxiliary
Power or Pleasure Boats. Vessels of all sizes built and fully equipped.
PUMPING PLANTS. REFRIGERATING PLANTS. COLD STORAGE for Pishing Roats.
Information and Prices furnished by—
J. F. McDERMOTT & CO., 30 PITT street, SYDNEY.
Factory Agents for Australia and the South Seas.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Ldivards, Dunlbp & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane .
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
PRICE, 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d.
The Inky Way.
There is a constant stream of letters from the daily-
paper offices to the dead-letter department of the G.P.O.
Every fellow who meets a girl would appear to tell her he
works on one or other of the daily-paper staffs, and, when
that fellow has passed on, the girl writes to the office to
ask him “ Why?” or “ What he’s going to do about it?”
Very often, too, the girl doesn’t put sufficient stamps on
herletter.
• * • •
Another series of defections from Melb. Age staff is
taking place. Three men resigned in as many weeks to
go to other billets, and there are rumors of further
changes. David Syme has, somehow, never been able to
keep his men for very long, and a three-years acquaint-
ance with the Age office is a feat in the way of longevity.
Not that David is nearly as quick as other paper bosses
to “ fire ” his men, but there is a grim austere ghost
which walks the Age premises and scares away all but a
certain type of writer.
* • * •
Victoria’s pet Bent recently committed the prize in-
discretion of knocking off the early newspaper trains
which enable the Melbourne dailies to maintain their
monopoly and crush competition in country centres. If
Thomas did not do it personally, some humorist in his
department did, and the big proprietors were much
annoyed in consequence. At latest they were moving
heaven and earth to get the train advantages restored,
but doing it very quietly, and it is probable that the
mysterious “ underground explosions” recently reported
in Melb. suburbs were really caused by Syme and
Mackinnon cursing in a subterranean manner about their
alleged wrongs. When the Ballarat Courier, some time
ago, wanted to start an early morning train to Melbourne,
on the same terms as the Argus and Age already have,
the railway bosses nearly fainted at the audacity of the
request.
* • • «
A recent contributor to “ Inky Way ’’ column mentions
two old-time Melb. Age reporters—Lindsay and Horton.
The former afterwards served for a number of years on
Brisbane Hansard staff, and died after an operation for
cancer of the tongue. The latter endeavored to make
toiling in the inky way fit in with studying for the bar,
and landed himself in a lunatic asylum, where he was
quickly released from the cares of existence.
• * • *
Obit. : H. J. Palmer, editor Yorkshire Post, of over-
work. He tried to run three newspapers and to make
his day’s w’ork from 12 to 18 hours. He was warned by
doctors in vain, and in October last, while sitting at his
desk, suddenly lost his reason. He was carried home,
and, after four months hovering over the grave, he died.
• * * •
Sydney journalist F. J. Broomfield has completed a
review for Webster’s Dictionary of its Australian
Gazetteer, and, from all accounts, has brought it com-
pletely up to date. Mr. Broomfield, knowing the public
weakness, has taken care to include the smallest villages
which have become Great through tragedies, such as
Gatton.
• * • •
A N.S.W. politician lately in England speaks con-
temptuously of Tay Pay O’Connor and his London
gossip journal. “I gave him a typed account of my
career,” says the M.L.A., “and without reading a line,
but merely feeling the sheets with his hand, he said,
‘ lengthy, too lengthy!’ I put it that I was so
many years in politics, and a well-known authority on
backbloeks life. He asked me to come back next day.
When I came he handed back my bundle, and, rubbing
his chubby little hands, said, ‘ You know a lot about
wombats and paddymelons. What are they ? I’d take a
couple of short pars, about those things.”’
* • • •
Cable work is a fine art on Cairns (Q.) press. The
Argus, t’other day, in a message about royalties at
Lisbon, gravely stated that the barge of King Carlos was
manned by eighty horsemen. When the rival Post next
day thanked its contemporary for having solved the
problem as to what horse-marines were, the Argus ex-
plained that an inebriated comp, had substituted “horse-
men” for “ Norsemen,” which was intended to be printed.
The correct word, of course, was oarsmen. But this was
only a circumstance to an Argus cablegram a few days
before, in which Mustapha Pasha was turned into a
petroleum depot.
• • • •
“ Pica ” writes: One of the sorrows of the
country editor—and he has a good many- is the fact
that the “ stereo.” matter, with which be fills up his back
page when advts. are slack, often conflicts violently with
the inside, locally-set matter. Until lately, almost the
whole of the stereo, matter came from America, and the
compiler of it often showed a fine lack of knowledge of
things Australian. The result was that the Spudvillk
Herald often had a column on “ How to protect an
orange grove from a frost,” or “ New methods of ginning
cotton,” which used to cause sleepless nights to the
local agriculturists. The chief trouble, however, arose
through articles with a strong anti-British or Republican
flavor, or a diatribe against Britain anent the Alaskan
question. The latter would, by the i#ony of fate, appear
on the back page just when a fierce leader from the
British side was printed inside. Occasionally a Jingo
would come in to remonstrate with the editor, who, of
course, was unable to offer the real explanation, which
would have given the show away. The writer, who has
been through this mill, lost five subscribers in one act
through a contretemps of that sort—and five subscribers
to a country rag are a very important consideration.
Much trouble is caused by the worried foreman jamming
in old stereo, to fill up, when he is late getting the first
forms to press. My foreman had a handy three-quarter
column yarn that did duty dozens of times, until the
subscribers, who got to know it by heart, used to
wander in dazed and puzzled, and ask what there was in
the yarn that caused us to print it so often. Some of
them at last got to believe it was an adv. in disguise ;
and others used to bring me yarns and “ poems ” of their
own to put in its place. I almost lost the foreman
thro ch taking that bit of stereo, home at last and
burning the woodin backing off it.
Passed away in Maoriland lately the portly P. Sarsfleld
Cassidy, journalist, who at some time or another was
connected with a New York press agency. There was no
doubt about his coming from “ Noo Yaw'hk.” He took
over the managership of the Nbw Zealand Times, and
during his career there that dismal journal provided
gaiety for the multitude. But its journalism was retro-
gressive, and in many respects wasn’t “ respectable.”
Cassidy was always at loggerheads with the reporting
staff, and one bleak, wet night he told the chief that he’d
heard there was a big accident “up street” The
scribe rushed out in a flurry and spent an hour and a half
trying to locate it, resultlesslv. “ Why, dahm it, mahn,
in Noo Yawhk a reporter would have a column written
about it by this time." “ But it didn’t take place ! ”
“ An’ what does thaat mattah ? Remembah this is a
noospapah—all noos, not dahmed results of coursing
contests.” So the scribe sat him down and reeled off
half a column about an imaginary accident ; and there-
after the staff didn’t trouble much about fossicking
round for news—it was manufactured on the premises
with the aid of a boiling imagination.
Lately deceased war-correspondent Julian Ralph got
his great chance for the Daily Mail when the late
George Steevens was shut up in Ladysmith. American
born, Ralph was everything that the polished, gentle,
almost effeminate Steevens was not. But he was a hard
worker, and turned out three books on less real warfare
than was adjudged sufficient by equally able correspon-
dents to provide copy for one volume. Five years ago, at
the time the Harmsworths’ ha’penny Era dawned on
London, it was the craze to employ graphic ’Murricafl
journalists to show up the dull, fog-impregnated style of
the penny dailies. Ralph wrote first for the Evening
News, and wrote ably till he was sent to Paris to do the
Dreyfus trial. To do this well, and telegraph an hourly
synopsis of the proceedings in English, he wanted to know
more than half-a-dozen words of French, which was Ralph’s
vocabulary. But he was too old a journalist to be beaten
by such a detail, so his assistant, a young Scotchman,
whose ostensible duty was to put copy into envelopes and
post them, was called to the rescue. The Scot spoke
French fluently and wrote the report. Ralph bungled
through somehow, but it was agreed that the best thing
he did during the Dreyfus trial was an account of how
garbage floated past the windows of his hotel, which over-
looked a pestiferous stream at Rheims. Years after-
wards, when he had come back from the war, Julian
Ralph was at Cowes with four other Daily Mail men
waiting for the Queen to die. At length word came and
Ralph sat down to dictate the article which was to thrill
a million of the late Queen’s subjects on the morrow. He
began: “The greatest personage that has lived on this
earth since the death of Jesus Christ passed away peace-
fully this evening.” That brilliant remark, unfortunately,
was never published.
• * • *
A Rabbit Trappers’ Union has been formed in Melbourne
“ for the purpose of protecting the interests of trappers
and removing existing disabilities;” and the Council is
empowered “ to conduct a newspaper in the interests of
the members." It was pointed out that 8000 people were
engaged in the industry, and probably 24,000 in all
dependent on it for a living; so the Bunny Record or
Weekly Rabbit will doubtless advocate a cessation of
poisoning, and all outside hostilities against the much-
abused animal.
• • * •
Henry Gullett, retired editor of Sydney D.T., began
his literary career as a writer of unpublished tragedies
founded on a youthful admiration of Schiller’s “ Rob-
bers ” and “ Death of Wallenstein,” and Goethe’s “ Gotz
with the Iron Hand.” But he eventually found there
was more money in solid leading articles about Protec-
tion and Freetrade, and other aspects of the “ dismal
science,” as well as the platitudinarian deliverances of
Australian parliamentarians. He was one of the best
book reviewers on the Sydney press. As editor of the
Australasian, he always had a sneaking kindness for
the fledgling poets whose work he consistently rejected.
He graduated in journalism as police reporter for Melb.
Argus in 1864-5. The first thing he did which attracted
attention was his account of the sticking up of a bank in
Fitzroy, for which Woods and Carver were hanged,
though no one was injured by the revolver shots. Gullett
also bowled out, in’67, a distinguished parson who lectured
on geology, in the deliberate crib of a chapter (repeated
from memory) of one of Hugh Miller’s books. Two years
afterwards he was sent to Point de Galle, Ceylon, to for-
ward to Melbourne per mail steamer a monthly digest of
the English news. In less than a year he was recalled to
take the Argus sub-editorial chair, which he relinquished
nine months later for the editorship of the Australasian.
He held the latter position for ten years, and then joined
Sydney Telegraph. A disagreement with the directors
led to his withdrawal to S.M. Herald. He ended a
strenuous and distinguished journalistic career with one
year’s work as editor of Sydney Telegraph. With
exception of 12 months’leave from S.M. Herald to visit*
Europe, he put in close on 40 years of hard graft without
a break ; and is now in the unusual position of a retired
pressman living on ample means.
There are a few nice points in journalistic casuistry in
“ The Autobiography of a Newspaper Girl” by Elizabeth
Banks —the woman who created some excitement in
London by masquerading as a housemaid, an American
heiress, and a flower girl in turn, and giving her experi-
ences to the press. One editor wanted her to pose as a
Salvarmy lass for copy ; she indignantly refused. Still
more decided was a refusal to walk the streets and be
arrested as a woman of loose character. An American
actress, under stress of great emotion, confided to her in
an interview a terrible history : she suppressed it. Told
off to pump a politician, he told her the secret she was
after in confidence, and pointed out the mischief that
publicity would do. She went back to the office and lied,
saying that the politician wouldn’t see her. One could
discuss end’essly the rights or wrongs of some of these
decisions. But they show Miss Banks as a woman of
some character.
• • * *
It is noticeable that the Australian country press is
getting into the hands of men who combine running the
local organ with some other business—into the hands of
the news-agent and fancy-goods man, the grocer, or the
village lawyer or politician. A customer, whose trade
the amateur ink-machine proprietor is afraid to lose, has
only to hold up his finger threateningly, or to wink his
eve significantly, and any item of news referring to the
said customer’s bad behavior at the local council, court,
or elsewhere is immediately overlooked. And, as
there has to be some news in the paper after suppressing
all reports of the misdeeds of customers and advertisers
and possible customers and advertisers, the paper speaks
with desperate severity about the harmless drunk of the
casual Billjim, who is a stranger in the district. In the
Land of the Moa there is some dignity about the country
press, but the average country newspaper in Victoria and
N.S.W. towns is contemptuously referred to as a “ rag.”
Judging a town by its newspapers is misleading, for the
poorly paid editor-CMm-reporter-ctfm-eompositor-cwm-job
printer-ciun-turu-the-handle handyman who delivers the
papers on his way home to his festive flea-patch, is
generally too weary and flat of stomach to have energy
enough left to chase news after his ten hours at the case
much less to wrestle with the smells of the local tip
sufficiently to shame the aldermen into a sense of their
responsibilities. What a lot of inky corpses (now await-
ing burial, their circulation is so feeble) there would be
if the Factories Act were applied to the den where the
local organ struggles, not really to keep alive, but to
keen only moderatelv dead so that its extra deadness
won’t attract too much attention.
• • • •
Press gallery in Melb. Parliament House is now guarded
with a brass railing. Reason—the upsetting of a bottle
of ink during last session. The Leg. Council chamber
has been so far left alone, though last Federal election an
absent-minded pressman treated a Tory N.S.W. mem-
bers of the Senate to a fusillade of ink, whichhe innocently
jerked from his pen after each dip. The tragedy passed
unnoticed until one legislator arose to denounce White
Australia with a piebald face. It is not many years ago
since a Bacchanalian reporter was permanently debarred
from the Q. Assembly for jocosely “sticking” Speaker
Cowlev with pens, which stood erect in his wig, givinghim
the appearance of a rakish wild Indian until his attention
was drawn to the matter by an observant official. But
the most interesting incident in connection with Parlia-
mentary press boxes was when the since-dead Henry
Cargill (“The Dipsomaniac”) arose in S.A. Legislature
and, advising the member on his legs to “shut up,”
solemnly moved that the House adjourn for “ forty
million blanky years.”
• * * *
When David Syme was in Westralia once, having a
look round the mines, he was approached by a nervous
young reporter in quest of an “interview.” “I don’t
want to say anything,” snapped David ; “ I’m on a holi-
day and you’ve no right to disttnb me.” Later on, that
reporter got on to Melb. Age staff, and his first trouble
there was a reprimand for failing to extort some opinions
from a man who didn’t want to be interviewed.
A LITTLE POEM.
Wrote a little poem—
No one knew my name,
Living in an attic
Climbing after Fame.
Sent a little poem
To a magazine ;
Back it came, rejected,
And my grief was keen.
Found a little poem,
Written years ago,
Hiding at the bottom
Of my portmanteau.
Showed a little poem
To an editor ;
Posted me a fiver,
And requested more.
Written many poems—
Publishing a book ;
Making money at it
J ust because they took.
Y’et the little poem
That the.y worship so
Not a patch on that one
Rejected long ago.
WELLINGTON, M.L.
W. FRANCIS CHAMBERS.


FLAVELLE, ROBERT
The Most Highly
Qualified Opticians
in all Australia.
VK
Queen St., Brisbane,
Rockhampton, London.
Soientiflo
Manufacturing
Opticians • ■
Save Double Profits by Procuring from the Makers^
ly* ■
>» ■*? '*»
=k? TT
==■= w
ll"!|l' il’\ V Z"A
ill!,.11 LJ I J/n/t
'S** &T 5 /"»
xW A V.iW
/"<. *5?
Sight-Testing
FREE.
SEND FOB FREE BOOK,
“The Human Eye
and its Care/'
BEST LONDON SMOKE SOLID NICKEL.
GOOGLES FOR LIGHT OR GLARE, 3s.
SPECTACLES TO ORDER, from Ss.
Oculists’ Prescriptions of
all Kinds made up.
ASK FOR PRICES.
SPECIAL ATTENTION given to Prescrip-
tion* by Post from any Part of
Australia.
Moderate Charges. Good Work,
ALL REPAIRS BY RETURN HAIL.
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS* SAN KEY
Optical Workshops
150 Queen St., Brisbane
East St., Rockhampton
Under the direction of Mr. C. Sankey. Fraser, F.S. FLO., Fellow of the Worshipful Compfany of Spectacle Makers,
London ; Diploma, British Optical Associat) on. Diploma, Visual Optics, Northampton Institute ; Diploma,
Applied Optics, Northampton Institute. (All the above honors were gained by examination.)
AGGREGATE BALANCE-SHEET OF THE x
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES. 31st MARCH, 1903,
LIABILITIES. £ a. d. £ *. d.
Notes in Circulation .. 993,808 6 0
Deposits and accrued
Interest 21,343,062’ 8 8
Bills Payable and other Liabilities-(which
include Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amount at Credit of Officers’
Fidelity Guarantee and Provident Fund)
Paid-up Capital .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve rund .. .. 1,300,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. .. 138,474 14 3
22,338,870* 8 8
2,791,440* 8 8
3,488,474 14 3
„ £28,566,785 6 2
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits and endorsements,
as per Oontra 6 10
£29,062,799 13 0
£ s. d.
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Bullion and Cash
Balances
Money at short call in
London
British and Colonial
Government Securities
Municipal and other
Securities
Queensland Governmsnt
Notes
Notes of other Banks ..
Due by other Banks ..
Bills Receivable in
London and Remit-
tances in transit
5,136,648 7 0
100,000 0 0
1,645,158 12 6
91,863 7 11
162,858 0 0
27,886 0 0
284,887 4 6
1,904,240 3 9
Bills Discounted, and Loans and Advances
to Customers
Bank Premises
9,353,541 15 7
!
18,535,243 10 7
678,000 0 0
£28,566,785 6 y 2
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit and Drafts, as per
Contra 496,014 6 10
£29,062,799 13 0
Dr.
PROFIT AND- LOSSr 31st MARCH,
1903.
Cr.
& 8. d.
1903.
March 31. To Rebate (at current rates) on
Bills Discounted not due at
this date
„ Dividend at the rate o 1 ID
per cent, per annum
„ Aupmeiatation of the Reserve-
Fund ..
„ Balance carried to “ Profit
and Lass,” New Account ..
7 r 402 9 0
100,000 0 0
13,000 0 0
16-.072 6 3
£139,471 14 3
1902. £ s. d.
Sept. 30. By Amount from last Accounts. 15,278 18 2
1903.
March, 31. ~ Balance of Half-year’s Profits
after providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, reducing the
'Valuation of Bank Premises,
and including recoveries
from Debts previously
■written-off as Bad .. .. 123,195 16 1
£138,474 14 3
RESERVE FUMD, 3fst MARCH, 1903.
£ ». d.
1,300,000 0 0
1902.
Sept. 30. By Balance
1903.
March 31. ~ Amount Irom Profit and
Loss 15,000 0 0
£1,315,000 0 0
1903.
March 31. By Balance £1,315,000 0 0
J. RUSSELL. FUKJCOH, Gbnkual Manaobr.
Amusements.
FITZGERALD BROS.’
1 HUGE CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE.
LOCATED — BELM O R E PARK. SYDNEY
THE GREAT SENSATION,
DAN FITZCERALD’S NO. 1 Circus of Novelties,
including Carl Hagenbech’s Zoologister Circus.
“SAVING THE COLORS.” “THE WATER CARNIVAL.”
Fun and Sensation for the Million.
PRICES—4s., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s,
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY, MAY 30, for SIX NIGHTS ONLY
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Musical Comedy Company in
S A nxr TOY.
SATURDAY, JUNE 6,
The Musical Comedy Company in
A RUNAWAY GIRL.
Box Plan at Paling’s. TEJI £2T Prices as Usual.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST TWO WEEKS of THE COMEDY SEASON.
PRONOUNCED GENUINE SUCCESS
of one of the most Irresistibly Funny Farcical Comedies
ever presented in Sydney,
OHI WHAT A NIGHT!
Interpreted by Mr. GEORGE GIDDENS
and Mr. Williamson's NEW COMEDY COMPANY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as Usual.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
Representative Mr. Mayne.
Agent Mr. H. P. Lyons.
FRANK THORNTON COMEDY BEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
A Little Ray of Sunshine,
“ BRIGHT, SPARKLING, UNIQUE.”
SATURDAY NEXT, FOR 6 NIGHTS ONLY,
FACING THE MUSIC.
Box Plan at ElVy’s.
PRICES—Ss., 3s. 2s. and Is. Early doors (from 7to
7.30, Is. extra. Ordinary Doors, 7.30. Overture, 8.
Carriages, 10.30. Children under 7 not admitted.
m UM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 8,
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation
in the Startling and Unique Melodramatic Production,
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
Price*—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
• Warehouse, George Street,
JHE MUT O S C OPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
now on view at
KING STREET ARCADE CORNER,
and
74 OXFORD STREET.
Real Life Portrayed with a Vividness and Realism
Never Before Witnessed.
ADMISSION FREE.
J IVOL
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
NEW FIRST PART—LAWN TENNIS.
Splendid Success of the
BOISSETT | The Bricklayers. | BROS.
Great Reception of Mr. TED E. BOX, Mr. FR ANK YORKE,
LITTLE EILEEN MURRAY, Mr. KELSO HENDERSON.
Splendid Success of SEELEY and WEST, RODDA PERRY
and all our Great Co. ____
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
SPLENDID SUCCESS OF M. RUDINOFF.
The Greatest Entertainment in the world.
Enthusiastic Success of HILL and SYLVAINY.
FRED. RIVEN HALL.
Pronounced Success ..of WILL
FITTS 808 BELL, WALKLR & MAY, BERT BRADLEY,
CONNIE HAMILTON, LINGARD SISTERS, M.ORRIE
BARNES PRACTICALLY A NEW COMPANY.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. Mr. George Musgrove.
LAST NIGHTS of
George Musgrove’s New English Company m
Shakespeare’s Delightful Comedy,
MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Splendid and Novel Effects.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
“* T ?s*r ,Y "r. M ‘ L “5rSSa Bolt
Business Manager .. C. Simonsens.
EVERY EVENING, and THIRD WEEK
foe Bland Holt Dramatic Co. in the Grea
Drury Lane Success,
HE PRICE OF PEACE.
es-3s 2s 6d. 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allanj.
oS J-
Opera Co. in Mr. Sidney Jones Latest Success,
* MY LADY MOLLY.
luce William Gillett’s Stirring Military Drama,
SECRET service.
?RICES AS USUAL.TEI Box Plan at Allans^
i musical event op the tear,
r, THURSDAY, 28; SATURDAY, MAY 30,
THE FAMOUS PIANIST,
IRK NRMBOUR<S.
PRICES—6s., 35., and 2s.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
And by\
Special Appointment
Mrs. William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dancing, Deportment,
Pr ° Carriage, Etiquette and Calislhenlo MW**, *
The Latest Society Skirt }> anceB - attended,
private residences. Colleges and C ' t g _
V Classes in all suburbs, Prospectus.
m Ellerslie,” IQO NicholBQn-Bt.,Fix»__r^.
PNGINEMAN’S MASTER ofCom-
t relating to Examinations for illustrations I
petency in all the States. 360 ££§*«» jjjjl Consulting
peceuoy ... - 365 4 bel Consulting
6s. 6d. posted, by L. I. R- ®OHNA >
Engineer, 448 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
South Kalgurli (W.A.), as forecasted here a
fortnight ago, is to be shut up at the end of the month,
while J. Bull is besought to provide another £50,000 or
£60,000. In eight years about £400,000 has been spent
on the mine (subscribed capital and gold won) with no
return, and the deeper levels hold out a less cheerful
prospect than the higher ones did.
• • • •
Associated (W.A.), after having sunk three
barren boreholes in quest of the Brown Hill-Oroya chute,
transferred the drill back to No. 1 hole. This was con-
tinued another 140 ft. to the boundary without result.
The drill was then again put into No. 2 hole, arid con-
tinued to the boundary, but also proved a duffer, so the
exact position of the chute is still a mystery. Tetley’s
shaft is down 1000 ft., and the contract for the first 200 ft.
of driving to connect Judd and Tetley’s shafts at that
level has been completed. This drive intersected a big
lode, supposed to be the Waddington, carrying very good
values in places. Drive has still 450 ft. to go to reach
Tetley’s shaft. The large heap of tailings and sli mes, which
has been accumulating 4 or 5 years, and now aggregates
some 250,000 tons, has been carefully sampled during
Ledoux’s recent visit, and been found payable (somewhere
about 10dwt.), and is to be re-treated. Opinions are
divided as to whether the Oroya chute continues into
the Associated, or dips into the Kalgurli, but the Asso-
ciated appears to have the better chance.
• * • •
Ivanhoe (W.A.) management, after a long
silence, has published the fact that the drill from the Boul-
der, 1600 ft. level, has penetrated the east lode, showing a
width of sft., and a value of lldwt. Nothing is said of
the Boulder West and Horseshoe No. 4 lodes, found in
the upper levels between the East lode and the Boulder
boundary. Those apparently have vanished. It is said
that the Boulder lode has dipped back, and is well within
the Great Boulder boundary at 1600 ft., but what has become
of the other two lodes is left to conjecture. Much surface
work is in hand on the Ivanhoe with a view to further
economies. The diamond-drill results carry very little
weight with insiders, as the Ivanhoe lodes are broken up
by numerous slides, and wherever these occur the ore is
poor. All the same, the publication of further results of
diamond-drill exploration will be awaited with interest.
A ss. quarterly div. seems assured for a long time ahead.
* » * *
Great Boulder Prop. (W.A.) is putting down a
second drill to further test the continuation of the Ivan-
hoe East lode, located in its northern block at 1335 ft.
Owing to the discovery, a large business has
been done in Boulder shares up to 10s., but
it seems rather premature to speculate in this scrip.
To sink the Boulder No. 1 shaft deep enough to test this
lode would entail more cash than the recent reconstruc-
tion provided, and another reconstruction would depress
the price of shares. Great Boulder has declared its 47th
div. of 6d a share (for 1902) payable in June, and an
interim div. of a similar amount for 1903. These two
mean £87,500.
• • « m
Flagstaff, Coolgardie (W.A.), has already
suffered six resurrections, and another is in sight.
Directors propose acquiring an interest in an alleged pay-
able property in Southern Gross ; but, as no co. in that
district has paid a div. since 1897, it is certain that the
venture in question, if not a wild cat, is a very near
relative. Shareholders have been called upon for another
6d. per share to save their Coolgardie property, as if it
were worth saving. Leases are ornamented with a 20-
head mill removed from the neighboring wild cat, the Big
Blow, as well as with May’s patent plant erected last
year. The concern is controlled by the Scottish
Westralia, now known as English and Scottish Finance
Corporation. This co. was responsible for fully 20 cats.
* « * •
Mt. Margaret Reward (W.A.) has just under-
gone its sixth reconstruction, to take over some adjoin-
ing leases'from the London and Hamburg Gold Recovery
Co. Purchase price for the new blocks is 30,000 shares,
and new co. will have 152,000 shares of £1 each. Bewick,
Moreing and Co. are the consulting engineers of the
London Co., and they are not likely to have advised
their clients to quit the blocks if they were any good.
* * • •
Associated Northern (W.A. ), besides the ordi-
nary div. of ss. per share (£87,500), has also declared a
special div. of Is. per share (£17,500), both payable
during May. The cash from the latter div. is to be
appropriated to meet the call of Is. per share in the
Northern Blocks Syndicate of 350,000 shares of Is. each,
promoted to prospect the Iron Monarch, Medindie Hill,
and Medindie Hill East, on half shares with the parent
co. Should these outside blocks prove of any value the
syndicate shares will reach a high figure. The mine has
just lost its manager, Capt. W. H. Rodda, by sudden
death. As a practical miner he was in the first flight on
the Golden Mile. At the time of his arrival at Kalgoor-
lie, 3£ years ago, this co.’s blocks were regarded as abso-
lute wild cats, and it is mainly due to his sagacity that
the Iron Duke has been proved so rich a property.
• * • *
Malcolm (W.A.), after its third reconstruction,
has again got to work, and is sinking the main shaft
from 500 to 600 ft.. The mine has been terribly mis-
managed, and it is chiefly through this that its career has
been so chequered. The first collapse, in 1899, was
caused by payment of a div. of Is. per share, or £lO,OOO,
which was never earned, leaving the co. without a bean to
go on with. Mine has produced several thousand ounces
of gold, and is well equipped with a 30-head mill and a
cyanide plant, as well as air compressors and rock-drills.
If properly managed it should yet do well.
* • • •
Murchison Associated, Day Dawn (W.A.),
situated a mile north of the Great Fingall, is being
steadily boomed. The lease being worked is the Rubicon,
once owned by the Consolidated Murchison, now merged
in the Great Fingall. The east branch of the Fingall reef
runs through the property, but, as the intervening blocks
are worthless, this property may be equally so. At least
eight years so-called prospecting has not proved it other-
wise. Work is still confined to driving at 150 ft. and
350 ft., which shows how much energy has been displayed
in the past. The ore is low grade, though a short time
ago a canard was cabled to London that the manager had
cut ore worth 2oz. per ton in the upper level, and hoped
soon to reach same chute in the lower. On this cable the
ss. shares jumped to £l, but declined again promptly on
a further cable that a mistake had been made. The ore
was really worth Bdwt. only. The mine may be all right
but it is badly handled.
* • • •
Lady Loch (Coolgardie, W.A.), after long
silence, and numerous abortive attempts to revive it
has again appeared among the producers with a return
of 280 oz. from 400 tons. The ore was from the Forrest
King portion of the property. The mine is one vast
muddle, the result of past mismanagement, and is never
likely to earn its salt under existing or any other con-
ditions. Yet the scrip is being artistically boomed in
London.
• • • •
Great Fingall Consols (W.A.) has at last topped
the 13,0000 z. mark. Its additional machinery should
increase the output to the level of the Perseverance and
the Golden Horseshoe, and it will be a mere toss up
which heads the list of producers, though the Fingall
will top the div.-payers, as its costs are rather under 355.
a ton. During April the Horseshoe was ahead by a mere
60z., which is certainly winning by a very short nose
where a score of 17,5000 z is concerned. Developments on
the Fingall are being pushed ahead at all levels down to
9, and the new chute of ore at 7 is proving very satisfac-
tory, and is being driven for in the upper levels. The
mine’s monthly profit is now about £28,000.
• • * •
Cosmopolitan, Kookynie (W.A.), after an
interval of a year, has again joined the div.-payers the
May distribution being £20,000, or Is. per share. Mine
has had a lot of trouble with water, but, once this was
overcome, work has been pushed ahead at a great pace.
The ore is not nearly so rich as was anticipated, current
returns being only 14dwt. against 21dwt. a year ago. As
it is free milling quartz there should be a good margin
even on this. Ten levels are being worked, so the mill
should be easily kept supplied ; but, as the lower levels
carry poorer ore, the returns are likely to fall off some-
what.
• ■ • *
Brown Hill Extended (W.A.), against general
expectations, had a bumper yield for April, the Hannan’s
Star mill treating 2472 tons for 92040 z. (This mill’s
capacity on Brown Hill and Oroya ore was only 1800 tons
monthly.) A further div. of ss. a share may shortly be
declared. Co. is to increase its capital to £lOO,OOO, by
the issue of 20,000 new shares, in order to supply more
funds to further exploit the eastern reel. It seemi a
foolish thing to pay cash in divs. and simultaneously
issue further shares, but as old shareholders have been so
long out of their money, they are probably anxious for
some return. Even with its additional issue, co. will not
be very highly capitalised, as things go ; but, on present
prospects, the shares are not worth anything like par.
« * • •
Sons of Gwalia(W.A.) will probably join the
div. payers shortly. Costs have been much reduced
since Loreing took charge, and his successor, Broad-
bridge, is working on similar lines. The mine is also
opening up better than expected. The lode which
petered out north of the shaft, at. 4 level, has again
made in the deeper levels, and the ore reserves are on the
increase. It should be able to pay regular moderate
divs.
* • * •
Some W.A. returns for April: Horseshoe
17,5250 z., Perseverance 17,5200 z., Boulder 14,0970 z.,
Fingall 13,0880 z., Ivanhoe 10,8630 z., Oroya 8,0380 z.,
Associated 6,0050 z., B. Hill Extended 9,2940 z., Ass.
Northern 2,8250 z., South Kalgurli 2,4000 z.- Kalgurli
37700 z., Cosmopolitan 5,2250 z., Sons of Gwalia 5,6920 z.,
Wheel of Fortune 3,1540 z., Princess Royal 2,5470 z.,
Bellevue 1,6030 z., Ida H. 1,2340 z., W.F.M. Reef 1.2200 z.,
W. Mount Morgans 4,4960 z., E. Mur. Ud. 1,4380 z., M.
Reef 1,2760 z., Link 1,2530 z.
Clever “ Ikey ” Isaacs, who made his first
political rise by his boldness in dealing with some
of the boom directors when Vic. Solicitor-General,
has sinoe developed a timorous side that will get
him under in the long run. As soon as the rail-
way men’s strike was started, and the voice of
Kyabram was heard loudly declaring that states-
men Irvine and Tommy Bent and Shiels and
Sachse should “stand firm,” the nervous little
Isaacs sailed in to deny a rumor that he had acted
as legal adviser to the men “in connection with
the strike.” The rumor was not that he had
advised the strike, but that he and fellow-lawyers
Higgins and Cussen had been consulted on the
legal rights of the Bent-ridden men, and con-
siderable color was given to this statement by the
fact that the IcCberg Govfernment could not secure
the services of any of the three mentioned to
advise its side, and had to call in a couple of com-
paratively little known Equity barristers. At the
last Vic. elections, Isaacs was nearly driven into
nervous hysteria by the fact that his dull brother
Johnny hadn’t taken up with the Kyabram crowd
in time.


FOR MEN and WOMEN
Herve Diseases.
*.
IT has been scientifically proved that,
when the nerve power of the body is
deranged to such an extent that
serious depletion of the natural quantity
occurs, grave nerve diseases make them-
selves manifest. The nerve power of the
body is like the
Fuel of an Engine.
It is the source of heat and activity bv which
the machine moves and fulfils its purpose.
Take the fire from the engine, it is an
engine no longer ; take the nerve-life from
a human being,
You have a Dead Man.
Natural nerve power must then be main-
tained in the system if Health is to be
enjoyed. If your nerves are out of gear,
you will suffer from all kinds of STOMACH,
LIVER, BRAIN, KIDNEY and other
affections. The cure of such ailments from
such a source lies in Electricity, which is
Nerve-Power, and correct medical treat-
ment suitable to such maladies.
■*
K.
■
\
“INVIQORATOR,” as worn by Women.
wtBBESBM
Stomach fliseases.
♦
man or woman who suffers from
X INDIGESTION or Dyspepsia of
long standing is to be pitied in their
martyrdom. How many have tried new
doctors and drugs without benefit? Yet
there is a new but sure cure, a recent
scientific discovery. Pathologists have dis-
covered that when the nerve centres govern-
ing the kidneys and stomach are deranged,
Bad Digestion follows
with its host of ailments. A bad stomach
vitiates the blood and poisons the system.
It is impossible to be healthy. Any man
or woman martyred to Indigestion should
wear one of
The Freeman & Wallace
Electric “ INVIGORATOR ” Belts for
a few weeks and note the results. It
diffuses through the nerves governing the
kidneys a new electric force, by curative
electric currents, re-invigorating the nerves,
giving strength to the digestive processes,
and assuring good digestion. Health is
sure to follow.
£lOOO BOND,
The Medical Marvel of the Century.
£1 ONLY
To weary sufferers fortunate enough to possess one of these wonderful instruments, good health awaits them. It acts at once upon the nerves, restoring
that normal nerve power, the degeneration of which is the root of such physical evils as INSOMNIA, EPILEPSY, HYSTERIA BLADDER and KIDNFY
TROUBLES, PROSTATIO DISORDERS, YARICOCELE, INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA, FUNCTIONAL HEART DERANGEMENT NERVOUS-
NESS, CONFUSION OF MEMORY, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, WEAK BACK, AND LOSS OF VITAL POWER. It has cured thousands of
reputable men and women in the Commonwealth, after all other remedies had failed. It restores permanently the nerve force WHICH HAS BEEN
DRAINED FROM THE SYSTEM, which must be replaced if a cure is to be effected. Worn for a few hours nightly the soothing curative current enters
soothingly the nerve centres. Whilst the patient is wrapped in slumber the invigorating power is diffused through his entire being. There is no friction of the
current, no discomfort.
The Freeman and Wallace Electric “ Invigorator ” Belt
is sold for ONE POUND ONLY. There is no further charge. It is locally manufactured, not by working jewellers as some locally sold belts are, but by
skilled electricians. It is certificated by leading Electrical authorities. It has true vulcanite insulation, which prevents the escape of the current, without which
no Belt is useful in medical practice. Duty is paid to all States. The £lO “ INVIGORATOR ” Belt contains 2ozs. 18ct. gold. £8 is allowed in return for it
even after a cure has been effected. The following certificate of efficacy, given by a noted Electrician, is worth perusal.
RenaemTaer ! "37lie genuineness, of -tills Belt Is Tiaclt®c3 Toy a £lOOO Bond.
- ■ •
m
msk
An Improved “ INVIQORATOR.”
A GREAT CERTIFICATE
A high authority upon Electrical Science, Mr.
ALBERT N. LIBBY, representing ALLIS-CHAL-
MERS COMPANY, the largest electrical firm in the
world, who arrived under contract to the N.S. WALES
GOVT., and supervised with others the Electric Tram
System of Sydney, gives the following certificate to the
SUPERIORITY and EFFICACY of these wonderful
Electric “ INVIGORATOR” Belts:
“1 have made several electrical tests of your Electric
Belt* and find it gives a steady current of good
strength. It is electrically perfect. I have tested other
Belts on the market, and have not obtained the same
results. It convinces me you have one of the most
perfect Electric ‘ Belts ’ on the market to*day.
“(Signed) ALBERT N. LIBBY.”
Electrical and Mechanical Engineer for
Allis-Chalmers Go., Chicago, U.S.A.
MR ARTHUR HILL (of Hill and Sylvainy), the famous art-cyclist, touring the Australian States under management to Mr.
Harry Rickards, the Vaudeville King, wore this Belt, and says
“In A oril of this year I strained the muscles of my hack. I wore your * INVIGORATOR,’ and soon regained
my ».ee,.ary length. (Signed) ARTHUR HIH (Hill and Sylyainy).
INVIQORATOR,” as worn by Men.
An Internationally Registered Specialist.
Every patient who is treated at the INSTITUTE is under the care of an internationally
registered PHYSICIAN, and skdled medical Dr R Wailace, ]\LD., L.R.C.R,
E T ep s E T, M is registered by the MEDICAL BOARDS of N.S. WALLS,. VIC-
TORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, AMERICA and ENGLAND. He is the only registered
the cure of
lUxtlA, oU U in AUOiIVAmA, nifxuivw frk
SPECIALIST who thoroughly understands the application of to
Nerve Diseases. (See N.S. Wales Registered Practitioner s List for Qualification
SIR DOMINIC CORRIGAN, BART., Physician to the late Queen, speaks of him 1
“ I entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to hi s professional qualifications.
A Work on Electro-Therapeutics.
“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 550 pages, 150 medical plates, 31 chapters,
explains the Electro-Therapeutic methods by which so many wonderful cures are made.
Numerous testimonials, bearing the names and photographs of persons cured, are also in-
cluded. These comprise testimonies from THE HONORABLE DANIEL O’CONNOR,
M.P., Patrick Larkin, J.P., Mr. Arthur Hill (Tivoli Theatre), the famous art cyclist, Mr.’
Philip Newbury, the great tenor, Inspector Fowler, N.S. Wales Police, and many others.
Posted free to any address on receipt of
ONK SHILLING INT STAMPS.
™ E FREEMAN * WALLACE
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH an& BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director. Medicines packed Free From Observation and sent te all parts of Australia.
Dr RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L M., Phyaician-iK-Chief. Letters treated With Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


“F.” writes :
Apropog Maoriland greenstone now coining into fashion
in London. When Father Larkin was tried for high
treason, or ingrowing toe-nail, or some other such
awful crime, and R. D. Ireland went to Maoriland
at a big' fee to defend him, the story was
promulgated that the greenstone emblem was
simply a Fenian decoration. The gorgeous George
Frederick Verdon, who previously wore a big slab of the
mineral, immediately cast it off his vest as if it had been
a serpent, and greenstone became a drug. Ireland’s
defence of the priest was described as the most brilliant
speech made up to that date in Maoriland. Father
Larkin was convicted and sentenced to a month’s
imprisonment. A gentleman who was on the committee
of defence says that Ireland was feted like a king, and
that he could drink as much brandy as ten kings.
“Genung” thus strokes the fur of this
country the right way :
I met him on the Omrah. He wu a consumptive
trying the long sea-voyage cure. He said : “An Aus-
tralian, are you ? Smart men your telegraph-operators
are 1 I was in Kimberly during the war, and one of the
men told me there was a colonial at Okreburg that
fancied himself. I took him on, and sent him a long
cipher message at top speed. When I got to N.M. (no
more), and got back 0.K., I felt curious as to where he
acquired his speed. I called him up and said : ‘l’ve worked
cipher here twelve months, and I’ve done general elec-
tions in Liverpool, but I’ve never struck a man to receive
like you.’ ‘ That’s all right, old chap,’ was the reply ;
“ You see, I worked under B——, in Dimboola ! ’ And I
was so struck of a heap that I didn’t have the pluck to
ask where Dimboola was.”
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1349. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle. "
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and G.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the seourlty of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand*
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any Pne.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Sum.*
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombb, Esq iip
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S. *' ' *
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Hearae’s
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pafn or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
tnd a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF" COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
DURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’B
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.B.W.
‘Mr. Hearne. —
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
Kortion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
if London, England, from which you will glean that
jour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
!olds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
)e mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
'ortion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
t was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing: that I think the
bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
trrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
triday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
nuch interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
roin a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
upplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONT H S’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HE ARNES
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —l wish to add m v testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
oonths, and the.cough was so distressingly bad at nights
was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
dvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
•ours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
trst dose, and though I hawe had but two bottles I feel I
m a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
ronderful remedy to an.yone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Tearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and W'e certify that it was per-
ectiy and rapidly successful under circumstances w hich
ndoubtediv prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
•• I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them In from <MM to thlM
doses.— P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Tour Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. » only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending- for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
9
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine. —A. B. SIMMON'S, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney."
©
* My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, end I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us boih. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
O
‘‘l have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenniaggie, Victoria.'’
0
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.— JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria."
©
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“ My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.— C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Viotoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“I lately administered gome of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effeoh. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Core without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle. —W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria."
“I have tried lots of medicine, hut yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN 0.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
•
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have nulled
me through a lontr and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
(. •
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.— CHAS. WHYBROW. Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
"The Bciwntifto Australian Office,
„ _ ‘‘} 69 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during- the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“ This gentleman, some three years ago, was reeora.
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham ao-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recoin-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 38
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
* THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Es<j. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack o(
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARSE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6dj Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE
SMELTING £ REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPT9, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Sl&gS, ILIld Je~WellerS SW66P, etC*
For alt Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dafto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
ft
The London Medical Record
says:—“ It is retained when all
Other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger's Foot! has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own."
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


No. F 7939. —Oct. Gold Leaf and Wishbone
Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. 0537.—501 id Silver Bean Shape
Match Box, 8s 6<L
No. FBl9O. —9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar, Leaf
and Heart Brooch, 8s 6d.
*2
%
s
V
No. 014.—The Nurses’ Watch, Keyless,
Open Face, Engraved Silver Case, fine
Jewelled Lever Movement, Warranted
Reliable, 32s 6d.
We have looked long for a good
Nurses’ Watch, and at last we
believe we have secured the
very one wanted.
No. 112. —Handsome 9ct. Gold and Fine
Amethyst Brooch, 18s 6d.
Our Variety makes Suitable Selection Easy.
BUYING as we do for Eight Stores, each as Well-Stocked as our Sydney one, means that we
nave advantages offered us such as no Jewellery business In Australia can claim. We have
ware * louse * n Hatton Garden, London, manned by Experts who see more goods
Wl _, s u , h ® urs than most buyers see in 12 months. You see thus that we can offer you the
P ‘ Ck * thC H ° me market at fascinatingly low prices. We don’t keep all the advant-
gs we get to ourselves—we pass them on to you. A most important point, and one we adhere
’ We < r e \® l " sacr 'fice the quality for the sake of being able to quote a very low price for an
article. Quality is our first consideration. Remember this when you want anything in our line,
quality must count with you as well as with us. Illustrated Catalogues Free on application.
No. 88341. Solid Silver and Pearl Book-marker, 3£in., 4s ; larger, 6s 6d.
No. F 7550. —9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar and
Leaf Brooch, 8s 6d.
No. FSlBC.—The Latest
Lace Pin, Emu or
Kangaroo, 7s 6d.
No. F773l.—Novel Style Salt
Cellar, with Spoon, Silver-plate,
4s 6d.
Ko. FB2ls—Cut-Glass and Solid
Silver Toilet Bottle, inches
high, 22s 6d.
o. 17065. —9ct. Gold, two-bar Ornamented
Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. G29B.—Polished English Oak and Nickel-mounted Double
Inkstand, £1 ss.
No. E4933.—Fruit Dish
China, 7 inches square
Silver-plated Stand,
of Pretty
. strong
7 s 6d.
No. F2^.jv>— Silver-plated Fern
Fot, handsomely chased ■
4in., 22s 6d ; s£in., 37s 6d!
No. F 5688. —Case containing 2 ‘Pearl and Silver-
plated Butter Forks, 14s 6d.
No. EB7s9.—Best Quality Silver-plated Tile Centre
Teapot Stand, 10s 6d.
No. E6797.—9ct. Gold Brooch, set Sapphire, Ruby
and Diamond, 16s 6d.
No. F 5908. —Solid Silver Bowl on Ebony Stand, Scinches
high, 7J inches wide, £lO 10s; in best Plate, 84s.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
mmimmmimmmimmimmt
No. F493B.—Case of 2 Cut-Glass
Silver Mounted Knife Rests, 11/6.
No. F 8704. —Remarkable
Value. Diamond, Ruby and
Samphire Scarf Pin or Pin
and Stud, Fine Gold Settings,
t £3 10s.
No. Es627.—Strong 9ct. Gold Twist Bracelet.
A Pretty Style, 32s 6d
'amvnt
r a
HERE ARE SEVERAL
♦♦ ♦ ♦
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
w
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone fa Typewriter [td,
This is a “JUNIOR fIONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
Bead what ADELINA PATTI says
To The Gramophone Co.,
City Road, London
Gentlemen,
Craig-Y-Nos Castle,
Ystradgynlais, R.S.O
Breconshire,
South Wales
I have much pleasure in stating that I have heard your
Monarch Gramophone, and that I consider it a very remarkable instru-
ment of its kind, and quite the most perfect that I have ever heard.
It reproduces the human voice to such a fine point, that in listening
to the records of Caruso, Plancon, etc., it seemed to me as if those
artists were actually singing in my saloons. I have never heard
anything to equal it.
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Represented all over
—the World.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA -
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


DR VS DALE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all oases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Timbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
“ T.L.” writes :
Re “L.W.V’ sarcastic remarks anent the Melbourne
lady who lost her memory. Apparently he is one of
those fortunate people who have never suffered that way,
and is therefore unbelieving. I have, and can easily
understand it. In my case two doctors pronounced it
“ petit mal ’’ (a mild form of epilepsy, peculiarly liable
to affect journalists and others who are addicted to brain-
work under high pressure). I can assure “ L.W.” and
any other unbelievers that the feeling of hopeless help-
lessness when one is recovering from an attack is simply
horrible. The mental struggle to remember what you
feel you ought to remember, to recall what you know
you should never have lost, and, above all, the unavailing
attempt to disguise from those with you what seems (in
that state of mind) your ludicrous folly and stupidity,
combine to make loss of memory, “ petit mal,” or what-
ever you like to call it, an affliction of an acutely painful
order. I have had no attack for years, but even now the
memory of one seems to me like a nightmare.
A lady (and a nice-looking lady with a
religious upbringing at that) writes in the follow-
ing strain:—
A simple genial way of treating Heaven is charac-
teristic of other religions besides Salvarmy. Went over
an R.O. asylum, which is under the patronage of St
Joseph. Statuettes of that personage were all over the
building, most of them with placards round their mcks
asking good St Joseph to pay off the debt or do other
odd jobs. One of him was strung round with the care-
fully detailed picture of a horse and a request that he
would send the asylum an animal like that. St. Joseph,
according to the asylumites, has already done a lot for
them, and evidently only needs to be taken the right way
to do more. Once they had not enough coal, so they stood
the statuette of the saint on the one remaining lump in
the yard, with the result that a waggon load arrived that
afternoon. Another time they wanted rain and put the
saint’s image on the window-sill as a hint, whereupon the
rain came down in torrents. The horse the asylum
wants is needed for the van which is taken round the city
for food and clothes for the inmates, the present animal
being laid up in bed and unable to work. Why these
kindly people don’t simply take the figure of St. Joseph
and put it on the sick hone till it gets better, I don’t
know.
That pious Methodist publication, the
Spectator, reported in a recent issue that the
Chinese mission school in Lilly Buck-stleet, Mel-
bourne, was getting on well: “ There were 15
Chinese scholars (all males) present and H female
teachers and one male.” One nicee lillie white gal
to each Chinaman, barring one odd Chow who
seems to have been accidentally left out. Which
probably accounts for this letter from a naturalised
Chinaman : —
Dear Bully.— Ho-ki t Me welly lonesome white chap.
Me wantem gal—lillie gal—to lovem, and tleatem welly
good. Me tryem gettee little gal—no chop 1 Me go
churchem —no chop. Me go Sunday-school, bun-
struggle, bean-feastee, bible-classee —all dashed no chop 1
Lillee gal no bitee—no wantem common white chap. So
me diessem up as nicee Chinky-Oho' — ah l welly
good 1 Me go mission school all samee hinkey-Ohow.
She no savee. Ah ! lillie gal welly sweet “ Whaffor ? ’’
she askum. “You teachee Chee Tah how lovem
you—how poor Ohinkey-Chow growem good man, nicee
Ohinkey-Ohow live allee samee white man ! ” Lillie gal
smilem : “Ohee Tah, you welly good man, you my man.
Me teaohem you readem, writem, kissem. You savee,
Ohee Tah ?” Ohee-Tah he savee, and this common white
chap fixes on his welly longem pig-tailee, and puts on
his welly wide pajamas, and no cuttem his finger nailees
at allee (nor clean ’em either, you savee), and covers his
common old white phiz with oak-varnish, you savee, one
uightem every weekee —and Ohee Tah him havee dashed
good time all alonga pretty lillie white gal at mission
night schooL Ohee Tah, and allee the other dashed
real Chinkey-Ohows (they allee cousins an’ dirty fish-
hawkers, you savee—hi-yi, ho-ki—no chop 1) have
a nicee lillie gal allee to each Chinkey-
Ohow, and Chee Tah him welly poor scholar—
him no chop. So lillie gal she teachem Ohee Tah welly
nicee. “Ohee Tah!” lillie gal says, “Whaffor no
savee?” Then lillie white gal lays her lillie face close
alongsida Ohee Tah’s yellow face, and puts her lillie soft
arm over Chee Tah’s bony shoulder—you savee ? and tries
to teachem Ohee Tah how to makem dashed letters on a
slate. But Ohee Tah and his cousins no savee. But oh 1
lillie white gal—she much chop - Chee Tah wants mission
schoolem allee time. Bah ! you common white chaps—
whaffor you no like Chinkey-Ohows, and gettem lillie
white gal teachem mission-fools allee samee Chee Tah ?
Harry Stockdale writes re effects of human
consumption of diseased animal food :—
Use or habit can, in a measure, accustom man to
almost any food. Science and experience have both un-
deniably proved that many forms of diseased flesh —if
well cooked —can be eaten with impunity, if not with
benefit to man. In India a low-caste people called
Chumars eat all cattle that have died from any and all
diseases. Dr. Adam Taylor, a celebrated English medico
in charge of one of these districts, once reported that a
fatal epidemic broke out among the cattle—a disease
closely resembling that form of typhus often called
putrid fever in the human subject. The epidemic raged
till 40,000 head of cattle perished, the bodies of all of
which were eaten, as a matter of legal right, by the
Ohumar population. Dr. Taylor afterwards made a care-
ful examination of the Ohumar population, and could
find no traces of any disease among them caused by eat-
ing the dead cattle. On the whole, they were more
healthy than any other class of villagers. Another
authority says : “ During the last 25 years I have
examined nearly 60 such cases. I will mention
one. In one Hindu valley there were 2200 cattle.
An epidemic broke out among them, and in
five months about 600 of them died. In this
village there are 22 families of Chumars— about eight
persons to a family, and these families ate the whole 600
cattle, yet their health remained perfectly good. I have
now lived 25 years among the Hindus ; I have been in
medical attendance on every class, and I do not think
that even among the Brahmins, the strictest vegetarians
in the world, there is better health than among the
Chumars, who for 2500 years have, by law, eaten all the
cattle of India, dying by whatever disease.”
Again, M. Decroix, a French hippophagist, has made
it a practice to eat the cooked flesh of horses
which had had glanders or farcy, and whether
thoroughly or partially cooked, and this without
evil result to his health. Ever since 1861 he has
eaten the flesh (cooked) of animals that have died
from various diseases. Desirous of ascertaining whether
the flesh of animals condemned in Paris was really un-
wholesome, for six months he received from M. Chevreul,
Director of the Jardin des Plantes, parts of the flesh thus
seized, and intended for the beasts of the menagerie.
This he ate regularly without evil result. After nearly
20 years’ experience, he affirms that man may eat with
impunity the flesh cooked ( not putrid) of any of the
domestic animals, no matter what they had died of.
Personally I have seen hundreds of diseased cattle
slaughtered and consumed (on different stations) by
squatters and men alike without any apparent injury tc
anyone. The idea is not a pleasant one, but I am writine
of facts. As for tuberculosis, I am of opinion the great
danger of acquiring it is through our milk, and not our
flesh supplies.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no mattei
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
“ It is monstrous,” says London Morning
Post, “ that irresponsible spouters should hav<
the power to dislocate traffic and interfere wit)
the comfort of the people.” Somebody’s evi
dently been giving the Post a true and vivid
description of Bent, anyway.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
The story goes about Sydney that the wife
of a somewhat Important Person recently went
to consult a fortune-teller —she is said to have a
profound belief in such persons and to spend a
small fortune on them. The seer apparently
knew, or thought she knew, something, and couldn’t
resist impressing the visitor with her knowledge.
So she inserted herself in a trance, breathed
heavily several times, and then said that if her
visitor would go with all speed to a certain address
she would there find her husband in a practically
nude state. The lady—so the story goes—left in
such haste for the address indicated that she
upset nearly all the medium’s furniture in her
flight. And as to whether she found the Import-
ant Person there in a practically nude state, and
he in his anger pulled wires that led to the police
being sooled on to the fortune-telling brigade ; or
whether he wasn’t there and the wickedness of the
slander led to trouble; or whether the trouble
just happened, opinions differ. Anyhow, Sydney
hopes for the worst. But the general impression
is that that prophetess was a great fool.
HOW DO YOU SOLVE
THE PROBLEM?
♦ 44
Myrtle
L
E
E
/ST*
440 Jones-street, Ultimo, Sydney,
October 14th, 1902.
Dear Sirs: My little daughter
suffered from birth with eruptions of
the skin and also had a weak chest and throat.
Her breathing was difficult and labored, and
it often seemed to us as if she was choking.
The measures I took only succeeded in giving
her relief of a temporary kind, so that she inva-
riably relapsed into her former condition. A
friend recommended me to give Scott’s Emul-
sion a trial. From the commencement, the
benefit Scott’s Emulsion afforded my child
has been remarkable; her skin has become
clear and pure; there is no further trouble
either with her throat or chest, and she is now
all that can be desired both in health and
spirits. Had I not given her Scott’s Emul-
sion at the time I did she would have sunk
into consumption. Faithfully yours,
(Signed) Mrs. E. Lees.
Messrs. Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney.
HOW DO YOU SOLVE THE
PROBLEM presented when a child is
suffering from general weakness with particu-
lar indications of a week chest and throat, and
with some annoying skin eruption ? If you
solve that problem right, that is, if you put
the child out of its misery by obtaining a cure,
which would be the right way to solve the
problem, you will do so by the use of Scott’s
Emulsion. Scott’s Emulsion will solve the
problem for you much more quickly than you
can obtain a solution by any other means!
We do not need to give a description of the
trouble that annoys your child. What you
want to hear from us at once, and briefly, is
the name of the remedy. That is
SCOTT'S EMULSION. * i 8 not
we alone who make this assertion ; it is made
above by one who has seen the cure performed,
one of many who has found out the value of
Soott’s Emulsion for herself. Scott’s Emul-
sion acts from the first, clearly and
promptly, and successfully. It has cured
conditions similar to those described above in
every country in the world, and will cure
them in Australia. You have one precaution
only to take ; and that is to see that on the
wrapper of the bottle there is a picture of a
man carrying a big cod-fish ; if that cod-fish
is not there, you are not getting what we
promise you—a cure! You can obtain a
sample of Scott’s Emulsion and the choicest
children’s booklet of the year, “ A Bunch of
Roses,” beautifully printed in colours, by
sending sd. to Scott & Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent-
street, Sydney, and mentioning this paper.
All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
ry
ft;
0- s>
& <> -o
<3
/
'
F*S
THE PIANOLA
Will
play
any
Piano
and
any
kind
of
Music.
We are mailing free, to anyone who will ask us,
a booklet called “ Music in the Home.”
It will he of interest to every person who loves
music. It will be of particular interest to the many
thousand owners of pianos whose instruments remain
unused for months at a time, and become practically
nothing more than articles of furniture.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt cash, or
£65 on moderate monthly payments.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SYDNEY : 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
THE
* PLUM’
Hf
THE
‘PLUM’
/'"'l ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a Od.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather oase,2la
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Bole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
WITH GREENER BOLT AS DRAWN, THE “ WARATAH,"
60-
WITHOUT GREENER BOLT, THE “WONGA,”
50/-
BAR LOCKS.
Left Barrel Full Choke
Right Barrel Cylinder Bore.
For accurate and close shooting this gun cannot, oe surpassed, made of Best
•laterials, and equal in finish and workmanship to guns of three times the
rice. Barrels are Browned Twist, carrying a high polish. BAR LOCKS, Treble
>lt, half-pistol hand. Hammers are well down out of the line of sight. Vulcanite
•el-plate on best selected polished walnut stock. We will supply one or fifty of these guns to anybody
■ve only one price. Send your P. 0.0, with orders to—
ARRIAGE PAID.
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
Sydney Small Arms Co.
67 P O. Chambers,
Pitt-st., Sydney-
On Our Selection.”
By “ Steele Rudd.
Price, 6a., Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
DARK OR AROMATIC
FINEST SELECTED
AMERICAN LEAF.
TOBACCO
HIGHEST QUALITY
MANUFACTURE.


Part of the Parkes tradition in N.S.W.
politics was that statesmen should never pay
mere tradesmen; and it is curious how the
tradition has survived, and how consistently im-
pecuniosity and office are associated in N.S.W.
ass'
«T
v.
I
p°f
is
-NATURES
PLEASANT,
LAXATIVE"
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE.
California Syrup of Figs acts
gently, pleasantly and most benefi*
dally on the Liver, Kidneys and
Bowels, and permanently overcomes
Habitual Constipation,
Words of Advice
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS,
and see that the package bears the well-
known Name and Trade Mark of the
California Fig Syrup Co. Imitations are
numerous, but as you value your health
cannot risk taking a substitute. Call-
iornia Syrup of Figs is sold in Aus-
tralia in two sizes at 1,3 and 1/11.
Worthless substitutes are often offered
at less as an inducement.
California Fig Syrup Co., 32Snow Hill, London. Australia—7 Barrack St., Sydney.
a. <a> f.
AR.S
*
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd,
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd.
“Black Stump.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Black Stump is a small town now, but, when I
first knew the place, it was a lonely selection ;
and it got its name from a rather peculiar circum-
stance. It was taken up, long years ago, by a
carrier, named Mat Garron, partly for a spelling
and fattening paddock for his bullocks and partly
as a home for his wife, who objected to being car-
ried up and down the road, on top of wool one
way, and among station-rations and sundries the
other. They had no children, and, as Mat was
away three-parts of the year, she had a lonely
time of it in the little two-roomed cottage that he
built on the creek. She didn’t mind so much
while the sun shone ; it was the night hours that
were long and lonesome. During the day, she
found plenty to do. She looked after the fowls
and the pigs, penned the calves in the evening,
and milked the cows in the morning. She drew
her own wood with a horse and slide ; and, when
she wanted a change from salt-junk, she took the
gun and went round the swamps for a duck, or
else she tramped down creek to the deep holes
and fished Her constant companion was a
retriever dog, which brought out any game she
shot and helped her to hunt for eggs in the long
grass.
She was a big woman, rather squat in figure,
and nearly forty. She had been smart in her
younger days—a tomboy they called her, for she
could ride over logs bare-back, and “ possum ” a
tree as well as any boy. But that was a dim
memory at the time I met her.
About a mile from her place was another hut,
where lived a bachelor named Owen Crowdy. He
was an old man, and, like most men who live
much alone, a trifle eccentric. Still he wasn’t a
hid fellow. I struck his hut one evening at sun-
down, and lie good-naturedly invited me in. We
had tea ; and while we sat at the fire smoking he
began to tell me about the Garrons, incidentally
mentioning the black stump —the charred remains
of a huge gum-tree located about a hundred yards
from Garron’s house. The stump stood 12 feet
high, a mere shell, for the centre was burnt out;
and up through the hollow grew a tall green
sapling, branching out over the top of the stump.
It was quite an oddity in itself, the shell of the
old gum fulfilling the duty of a tree-guard. That,
too, is now a dim memory. £.nd why ?
Owen Crowdy was relating some episode in the
career of Mrs. Garron, when suddenly the door
burst open, and there plunged into the hut a
wild-eyed swagman, who flung his billy and swag
clattering against the wall, and dropped panting
to the floor. For awhile he seemed unable to
speak, and blinked around him like a maniac,
while vve stared at him, alarmed at his strange
appearance and the still more remarkable manner
of his entrance. ‘ ‘ O Lord ! ” he gasped at last,
and his eyes rolled horribly.
“ What’s the matter with you ? ” we asked in a
breath.
“ Shut the door ! ” he said, looking towards it
affrightedly as though he expected to see some
demon dart in after him. Crowdy closed the
door and pegged it. “The next bloke that’s in a
hurry ter get away from his fright will ’ave ter
knock,” he remarked with a side look at the
stranger.
“Any water handy, mate?” the latter asked.
“ I’m as dry as an old man plain.” Crowdy got
up again and gave him a drink. We allowed him
a few minutes to recover breath, and then
Crowdy inquired, “ Wot skeert yer, man ? ”
The stranger jerked his thumb towards Gar-
ron’s. “ Wot’s ’appened over there ? ” he asked.
I was watching him, but as there came no answer
to his question I turned and looked at Crowdy.
His face had gone the color of a dead man’s ; it
was ghastly, and he stared at the swagman with
bulging eyes and parted lips. He seemed
paralysed.
“ Whose place is that ? ” the swagman asked in
a more peremptory manner.
“ Mat Garron’s—the carrier,” answered Crowdy
hoarsely.
“Wot’s become of him ? ”
“ He’s on the road witli his team.”
“ An’ who looks after the place ?”
“ His wife.”
“ Where is she now ? ”
Crowdy stared and hesitated. “ Isn’t she
there?” he asked.
“ No—she ain’t! ” —incisively.
I began to feel uneasy. There was a suggestion
of crime here, and Crowdy’s manner was blatant
of guilt. “ What have you seen ? ” I asked sharply
of the swagman. He drew a long breath and
threw his elbows across his knees.
“ The queerest things I ever dropped across—
or want to ag’in,” he said, now looking into the
fire. “ By cripes ! it give me a start.”
“So I perceive. Well, let’s hear what it was,”
I requested.
“There’s a peculiar black stump near the
shanty—l s’pose yer know it?” I nodded.
“Well, I spread out there, intendin’ ter camp,
an’ went up ter the shanty to see if I could
score anything in the line o’ tucker. A retriever
dog met me near the v’randah. He walked round
me an’ sniffed at me boots, then he threw his head
back an’ howled. I knew then there was nobody
there, for tame dogs don’t howl like that unless
they’ve lost their boss. But the doors an’
winders was all wide open, so I went in. There
was some stale tucker in the safe, an’ ev’rything
was left ’sif the owner had gone out in a hurry—
for a few minutes, as yer might say, an’ never
come back. The fire’d been out a couple o’ days
or more, an’ the whole place was as quiet an’
lonely as a dead ’ouse. For all that, I didn’t
tumble just then as to there bein’ anything
wrong. I went back to the stump an’ had tea.
Just when it was gettin’ dark that forsaken dog
starts yowlin’ ag’in mos’ horrible dismal. I tell
yer, I begun ter feel real queer. Tilings didn t
seem to be above board somehow. Anyway, I
dumped the billy down ’long side the nap,
an’ was goin’ ter stretch out, when I
hears a rap-tap-tap on the stump. I
looked round it careful, thinkin’ it was the
dog; but there was nothin’ there. Gets back
to the nap, when rap-tap-tap it goes ag in, this
time consid’rable louder, an’ right ’longside o’ me.
’Twarn’t a honest ev’ryday tap that a feller could
cotton to; it sounded holler —it warn’t real. I
felt skeered. I’d ’eared tell o’ ghosts many a
time, but I’d never seen or ’eared anything afore
as warn’t natcheral. But that stump got over me.
It’d go tap-tap-bump boom ! Jehosaphat! me
hair began to stir ail over me ’ead, ’sif it wur
startin’ ter sprout all on a sudden. I soon made
up me mind as that was no place for me ter camp
—it was pretty clear some’un ad been murdered
there. I rolled up like greased lightnin’, an was
havin’ another squint round, when I hears a sort
o’ bellowin’ in that stump like a bullock makes
wot’s been bogged a long time. I grabbed me
tilings, an’ was backin’ away cautious like, when
all at onct that blessed stump lets out ag’in—the
most unearthly yowl yer ever ’eared in all yer
born days—like a curlew an’ a dingo doin’ a duet
in a tunnel. By cripes, I cut! ”
By this time Crowdy was the more agitated of
the two ; he was trembling with excitement. I
turned to the swagman: “ Are you sure you
haven’t been dreaming?” I asked, for the latter
part of the yarn appeared incredible.
“I’ll take me dyin’ oath I haven’t!” he
answered, decisively.
“ Have you been drinking lately ? ” He looked
hurt. “ Some men, you know,” I added, apologe-
tically, “see astonishing things and hear most
extraordinary sounds after drink.’'
“ I’ve been through that mill,” he said, with a
touch of impatience. “ This ain’t no jim-jams,
I ain’t tasted a drop since five months ago, when
I got blind drunk at Paddy Flynn’s. Of course,”
he added, in a matter-of-fact way, “we’re all a
bit balmy, some more so than others. But you
ken take it from me, I’m in me right senses at
the present time—which is ter say, I’m no madder
than usual.”
“ What do you think of it, Crowdy ?” I asked.
“You seem to be forcibly impressed somehow.
Perhaps you can enlighten us ? ”
He leaped suddenly to his feet and reached for
an axe that stood in a corner behind him. “ Come
on ! ” he said, and started for the door.
“ Where are you going?” I cried, surprised.
“To get him out. God forgive me; he might
die afore mornin’.”
“Who?”
“ It’s Mat Garron that’s in the black stump !”
“The deuce!” I said. “How did he get in
there ? ”
“Come on, for God’s sake!” he cried. “The
man may be dyin’.”
“But how do you know he’s there ? ” I persisted.
“ Come on ! ” was all the satisfaction lie vouch-
safed me.
Seeing that he was in earnest, I induced the
swagman to accompany us, and, bewildered and
anxious, I blindly followed my host. He threw
me the axe, and took up a light ladder tfiat stood
at the corner. Shouldering this, he started off at
a great pace for Garron’s house.
It was broad moonlight, and we had no diffi-
culty in following the narrow pad that zigzagged
through the scattered timber, and across the many
gullies that intervened. We had crossed nearly
half the distance when Crowdy said : “ Look ’ere,
I want you fellers to keep yer months shut about
this ladder. Yer’ll do yerselves no good be
blabbin’, an’ yer’ll do me a lot o’ harm.”
“ What about it ? ” I asked more mystified than
ever.
“Keep up,” he said. “We musn’t lose a
second. I ken tell yer as we go along. I hope
ter God we’ll be in time.”
We gave him the track, while we brushed along
through the tangled grass on either side of him.
“I come over ’ere two days ago,” he began,
“ter ’ave a yarn with Mat Garron. He was
expected back that day, an’ he mostly lands
chock-a-block with news from down country, an’
often as not with a “square-face.” I dropped
over about sundown, an’ there was nobody there.
The fowls was all through the place, an’ on top of
ev’rything. The dog was there, too, an’ lie
sniffed round me the same as this ’ere chap ses he
did with him. I thought there was something
crook, ’cos that there dog sticks to the old woman
like tar to a blanket. I was goin’ ter ’ave a look
round, when I twigged my ladder leanin’ agin the
black stump. That licked me altogether. The
larst time I’d seen that ladder it was layin’ agin
the back o’ me own humpy. No ’uu ’ad come ter
borry it, an’ there ’adn’t been a soul anigh the
place for a month as I knew on. I slipped over
an’ ’ad a good look at it. It was mine right
enough. ‘ But wot the deuce is it doin’ ’ere ? ’
ses I, an’ with that I mounts it an’ looks down
into the black stump. By the hokey shakes, I
gorra start, I ken assure yer ! Layin’at the bottom
o’that stump was a dead man—Fas’ways, I thought
he was dead. I couldn’t see ’is ’ead—it wur behind
the root o’ the saplin’; but I knowed them striped
trousers, with the patch on the back, was Mat
Garron’s. I got down out o’ that pretty slippery,
an’ I ’as a think. Seemed plain ter me as Garron
’ad left ’is team at the station an’ rode ’ome ; ’as a
kick-up with the ole gel over something—God
knows wot —an’ she stooms him out —accidental,
as yer might say. Then she hits on the black
stump as an orlright place ter hide ’im, an’ she
steals over in the night an’ cops my ladder. She’s
a tidy lump o’ a woman, yer know, an’ Mat’s not
very heavy, so she’d easy enough lug ’im up there
an’ drop ’im in. She must’ve forgot ter take the
ladder back, in ’er ’urry. No doubt she was
flurried an’ flummoxed, an’ all that, poor devil.
Then she must’ve cleared out on Garron’s ’orse,
an’ tuk the money with ’er as ’e brought ’ome.
That’s ’ow I looked at it; an’ I tell yer that
blessed ladder fairly got me down an’ worried me.
Yer see, I couldn’t give any likely account for it
bein’ there—no one would b’lieve my yarn. Any-
how, ter cut it short, I reckoned that ladder
would get me inter trouble some way or other if
it was left there. So I jes’ quietly yanked it
home, an’ made up me mind if anybody come
round askin’ questions, I’d know nuthin’
about the matter, an’ the ladder wouldn’t say I
did.”
“And why are you humping it back now?” I
asked.
“Ter put it back where I got it so as Garron
won’t know as it was took away. Yer see, if people
get ter hear o’ the hand I took it might give me a
bad name. Garron’s word now will clear me as
to how he got jumbled in the stump. So I want
you fellers to keep yer mouths shut. ”
I breathed easier. After all, the affair might
not be as serious as it at first appeared. Still it
looked ugly enough, with Garron imprisoned in
the stump, and his wife nowhere to be found.
We crossed the creek soon after, and about the
first thing we saw was a waggon standing in front
of the cottage, and a man letting some bullocks
out of a sapling yard. The ladder swayed on
Owen’s shoulder, and for just an instant he
baulked.
“ Phew ! ” he gasped, and then he fairly flew to
the stump and placed his burden against it.
When we joined him a minute later he looked
half dead. “That’s Mat Garron at the yard,”
he said in a hoarse whisper. _
“Then there’s no one in here?” I asked,
indicating the stump.
“ There is!” and by way of confirmation there
came a loud tap-tap from'inside The swagman
backed away with the same startled expression
of countenance that I had noticed in the hut.
I sprang up the ladder.
“Hulloa, there!” I shouted. Something
stirred hurriedly at the bottom.
“ Oh, for the love of God, let me out! ” cried a
voice the next instant.
The voice surprised me: it was a woman s !
“ Who are you ?” I asked.
“ I’m Mrs. Garron as lives in the house close
by. Help me out, for mercy’s sake, an’ don’t
stand there askin’ questions. I’m nearly dead ! ”
Owen stood staring up with a question in his
eyes that his lips seemed incapable of asking.
“It’s Mrs. Garron,” I explained as I descended.
“Missus —well, that beats cock-fightin’!” He
spat on his hands, and commenced chopping with
great vigor. Garron, of course, immediately
came over, and inquired what the trouble was.
I explained the situation. In a moment he had
mounted the ladder, and for awhile he conversed
hurriedly with his unfortunate spouse. The old
dog squatted behind Crowdy, wagging his tail,
and watching intently as the chips flew thick and
fast from the vigorous strokes of the axe. Pre-
sently Garron came down, and I noticed that his
face was wreathed in smiles. He went to the
house, and by-and-bye I heard him chopping
wood. By this time Crowdy had cut a huge gap
in the bottom of the stump. He had worked hard
and the perspiration ran off him in little streams.
The dog plunged through the hole and kicked up
a great dust. He sprang out again directly and
raced round and round, barking exultantly.
“D’yer think yer ken squeeze out, missus?”
Crowdy asked, leaning heavily on his axe.
“Aye, I’ll squeeze out,” she answered. “ Stand
back with you.”
“Come on, missus, we’ll help you out,” said
Crowdy.
“No, you won t, please,” she replied, drawing
back. “Get right away now, like good men.
I’m not fit to be seen.”
We stepped back, and she began to squeeze
through, muttering to herself the while: “The
poor pigs—they haven’t had a sup for half a week
—they’ll be all dead. An’ Garron, you devil, you
couldn’t come home two days ago, you couldn’t.
If I don’t be the death on ducks for the next
month or two, may I live in a stump-hole for the
rest o’ me days. Devil take yer, Owen Crowdy,
you’ve left jags an’ knobs to stick in a body all
over the place—ugh ! ” She was free ; and ejacula-
tions of surprise escaped us as the strange figure
rose from the ground, and, with hair streaming,
rushed wildly into the house.
“Hokey!” cried Owen, “she’s got her ole
man’s togs on ! ” Then we sat down and laughed
—laughed till the gum trees played pitch and toss
with the echoes.
“ How did I get there ? It was a mud-gobblin’
duck that put me there, no less. An’ I’ve been
there three days,” said Mrs. Garron, looking pale
and weary in the firelight. “I’d noticed a black
duck goin’ in an’ out o’ that stump for a week or
more, an’ I reckoned there should be a good nest
of eggs for the takin’. I’m not much of a fist
with an axe, an’ the fool of a thing we’ve got
wouldn’t cut butter. So I thought the easiest
way would be to climb down the saplin’ with a
dillybag, an’ climb up ag’in. It uster be easy fer
me to do that one time —but I’m not as young as
I was. Anyhow, I went over to Crowdy’s to
borrow the ladder. He wasn’t ’ome as it ’appened,
so I took the loan of it, intending to fetch it
straight back when I had done with it. I put on
Mat’s clothes, becos I was afraid me skirt would
ketch in the sides of the stump—an’ down I went.
That was easy. I put the eggs in the dillybag,
slung it over me back, an’ started up. I soon
found I’d bitten more 'n I could eat. The saplin’
was smooth an’ slippery. I’d get a few feet up,
an’ down I’d slip. I’d have another try —an’
down I’d go again with a run. I tried till dark.
Then I sat down an’ cried. Next day I tried again
for ever so long ; but it was no use. I was trapped.
Lucky for me there was a good many eggs, or
I’d ’ve starved. They gave out in two days, an’ then
I thought it was all up with me. Oh, it was hor-
rible —waitin’ hour after hour, an’ day after day,
an’ nobody come anigh me, till this evenin’. I
heard the swaggy, an’ knocked an’ coo-ee’d, an’
he cleared. I cried again, an’ prayed for deliver-
ance ; an’ by-’n-bye I saw a face above me. I
thought it was an angel’s ! ” She laughed as she
glanced from me to Owen Crowdy. “I hope
Mr. Crowdy won’t go tellin’ everybody that he
chopped me out like a ’possum out of a tree.”
“ I’ll never mention the subject to a livin’ soul,
Mrs. Garron,” said Owen, and he sincerely hoped
that no one else would. ?
When I passed along that way in the morning
there was only a heap of ashes where the black
stump had stood.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


\
DOANS
BACK-ACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
DREADFUL DROPSY.
A VICTORIAN LADY’S WONDERFUL RECOVERY.
Tapped every Month for a Year and a Half, Thirty=three
Pints of Water Removed at One Operation. Doctors
agreed her Case was Hopeless. Friends asked the
Clergyman to tell her that Death was Inevitable
Cured One Year Ago by
Y.X
DOANS
BACK-ACHE
KIDNEY PILLS.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
And “STILL WELL TO-DAY.”
Two Letters Written by Miss MARY A. BROWN, Streatham, Vic.
First Letter.
“Streatham, Vic.. June 6tli, 1901.
“I have been suffering from Dropsy for the past six-
teen months, trying many different kinds of medicine.
For the past three months I have been using Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and feel sure they are doing me
good. If there is any advice you could send me, I will
be glad to receive it. The doctors tap me every month,
a great quantity of water being taken away each time.
I manage to move about from room to room, and take all
the exercise I can.”
Second Letter.
“Streatham, Vic., November 19th, 1902.
“June twelve-months I wrote you asking advice regard
ing the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, in a case of
dropsy and Bright’s Disease, which I had suffered from
for sixteen months prior to using Doan’s Bachache
Kidney Pills. Your reply was to persevere with the
medicine, which 1 did. I used fifty-three boxes in seven
months, when I left off using the medicine, thoroughly
cured. My friends were all joyfully surprised at the
result —and I need scarcely mention my own feelings
about the matter. My case had been
Looked Upon as Hopeless,
In fact the doctors said it was the worst form of
Bright’s Disease they had ever seen, and they told my
friends that I would never recover. They believed that
it was caused by an attack of Scarlatina, which had
troubled me for some time before. My friends asked the
clergyman to tell me that I could not live. I was not at
all surprised to hear the warning, intuition having told
me many and many a time that I could not bear the
burden much longer, and L had come to look upon death
as more a means of deliverance than anything at all to
be dreaded.
For sixteen months prior to using Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills it had been found necessary to tap me every
month. I was first tapped in Geelong Hospital. The
succeeding month the accumulation of water was
incredible, and each month was worse than the last.
I used to get an enormous size. Then I went to a
Ballarat hospital, where two doctors were in attendance
each time the water was taken from my system.
By this time I was very ill indeed, and had to
be tapped at home, where, on one occasion, they
Took Away 33 Pints of Water.
I could not stoop to lace my shoes, and I only managed
to go from room to room with the utmost difficulty. The
doctors did not pretend to be able to do me any good ;
they just tapped when it was impossible for me to live
with a greater quantity of water in my body. You can-
not wonder that I was wearied of it all, and almost
wished for the end that seemed alone able to bring me
rest.
I had been taking dozens of medicines since my health
became so bad; some the doctors had prescribed, and
I used many which friends of mine had recommended.
When I was pretty well at my worst, a friend, who had
used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, advised me to try
this medicine. Shortly afterwards another friend who
had been cured by the Pills, gave me similar advice, and
after that I got further advice to use the same medicine.
In each case my friends had taken the Backache Pills
with the best results, so it was a great encouragement
for me to use them, though I felt that I was past the
power of any medicine to benefit me in the slightest.
From when I started with them the
Improvement was Steady.
Four months after I took the first dose I did not need
to be tapped, and three months later on I was quite
cured. I’ve been free of the ailment 12 months now, not
one sign having returned. My body and limbs are their
natural size, and there is no unnatural swelling.
I am happy to be able to write you this letter, as it
may benefit others who suffer as I have suffered. If you
wish it I can get this statement signed by clergymen,
J’s.P., and other well-known people, as my case is known
far and wide. I cannot sufficiently express my gratitude
to this medicine, and I trust that it will prove as great a
blessing to other sufferers as it has been to me. I will
always be glad to see anybody wishing to inquire into my
cure ; or, if they write, answer any questions.”
DROPSY is a swelling of the flesh caused by the escape into the tissues of the watery parts of the blood. When the kidneys are in health they filter all
the surplus water from the blood, the blood passing through the kidneys for this purpose.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have proved themselves a certain cure for Dropsy. These pills begin to heal the Kidneys. As the Kidneys heal they are
enabled to take out the surplus water more and more freely, and in consequence the progress of the disease is arrested, and gradually the body and limbs lose the
swelling and resume their natural shape. That such is the case many testify, but in proof we have reproduced the above letters.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per box (six boxes for 15/3), or will be sent on receipt
of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOANS.
The Great God Grub.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Suggested by George Collingridge’s article in recent
Bullbtik.)
I used to think that the Demon Drink
Was the Joss of All,
And kept grim hold on the young and old,
On the great and small.
This Earth befooled I thought he ruled
From his Shrine—the Pub. :
But now I see that its Deity
Is the
Great
God
Grub.
His paunch is stuffed, and his cheeks are puffed ;
He is huge of size;
He looks on Life, and its joy and strife,
With his pig-like eyes.
He has no heart for Song or Art,
And, in his belief,
The finest thing for a Bard to sing
Is a
Round
of
Beef.
The wise of old, who the story told
Of the Fall of Man,
Did not make Eve her spouse deceive
With a cup, or can,
Brimful of beer, or of champagne clear,
Or of whisky neat —
With finer guile, and a cunning smile,
She gave
Him
to
Eat.
Upon the street, when a man you meet
Whom you wish to tell
Of some good thing that to him will bring—
And to you as well—
A dead-sure pile ; with an absent smile
He will hear, then hunch
His shoulders high, and gasp “ Good-bye!
I must
Rush
to
Lunch.”
There is no knell like the dinner-bell
That can tear apart
Fond lovers sworn to be ever true —
Stomach rules heart.
And now I think that the Demon Drin
Or Beelzebub,
Would nobler be as a deity
Than the
Great
God
Grub.
N.s.w.
CREEVE ROE.
Fred’s Device.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I rode up to Booburra, and saw my old friend
Jim, sitting on the verandah. He had just taken
»p his old billet of overseer, after delivering a
mob of sheep. He looked dejected.
“G’day, Jim.”
“G’day,” he answered, and strolled over and
took my saddle, bridle, and pack on to the veram
dah and let my moke go.
“What’s up, Jim?”
“ It’s my ’art.”
“ Your heart, Jim ? What’s wrong with it ?
Weak ?”
“ Yes ! Weak. Too tender, if you’ll understan’
me. It most in general always gits me into
trouble. Blarst the thing.”
“Tell us what it’s been doing now.”
“You remember when I met you on the road
after d’liv’rin’ them sheep, an’ tole you about that
’umble bloke Fred, an’ is blamed teeth? Well,
I’m blowed if ’e didn’t turn up here th’ other day,
stror rat and everythink, an’ arst me fur a job. I
ort, o’ course, to av said no, if you’ll understan’
me, but ’e pitched me 4 such a pitiful tale agin, with
a lot about the little girl in it, it ended in me
promisin’ to see what I could do with the boss.
’E told me ’e’d got his false teeth out’n the water-
’ole that I throwed them into when I sacked ’im
afore, an’ I arsk ’im whether ’e’d got ’em ’obbled
now, an’ ’e said they wouldn’t be no trouble on a
station, as ’e could always find a place to put ’em
in fur saferty; besides e’ showed me a tin box ’e
wore on a string roun’ ’is neck, an’ said ’e always
Eut ’em in that at night. Well, you know the
oss, ’e most in general always does what I re-
commends, if you’ll understan’ me, an’ when I
tells ’im I wants another ’and fur must’rin’ an’
markin’, ’e tells me to put one on ; so I tells Fred
’e can _’ave the job at a poun’ a week an’ ’is scran.
’E’s bin with us a week, an’ though e’ ain’t bin
much good, e’s shaped willin’, as ’e most in general
always did, if you’ll understan’ me, an’ ’e didn’t
do no ’arm until to-day, when somethink ’appened
which broke me up altogether, as torf blokes in
Brisbane sez.
“We bin lamb-markin’, y’know, an’ I didn’t
take Fred must’rin’ fur fear ’e might git bushed,
Besides e ’ain’t never bin outside of an norse yet.
I sends ’im from one camp to th’ other with the
cook, an’ lets ’im do odd jobs about while we wuz
must’rin an ’elp ketch when we wuz markin’.
Well, we done the ‘ Sawpit ’ yest’day—”
“ Paddock where the stud ewes are ? ”
“Yes, an’ I noo we wuz a good few short.
’Owever, I didn’t bother, as I noo we’d git ’em
this mornin’ on our way to the four-mile, if you’ll
understan’ _ me. Sure enough, we drops acrost
’em, an’ bein’ in a nurry, if you’ll understan’ me,
I takes ’em to the yards an’ sings out fur Fred.
‘ Yere, Fred,’ I sez, ‘try an’put this small lot in
the yards. If you carn’t manage it, camp ’em
under a tree till I comes back. Don’t bustle ’em.’
‘Hall right, sir,’ ’e sez, a-raisin’ ’is stror rat, an’
knowin’ ’e ’ad a good dorg at the camp, I canters
orf to the four-mile. I didn’t think the blinded
ijit could go wrong with that small lot if ’e’d ’a
tried. There ! Sugar me if I did, if you’ll
understan’ me.
“ We wuzn’t long over the four-mile, an’ as we
come up to the yards, I seen Fred ’ad ’is lot
yarded, an’ wuz a-settin’ on a rail in the ’ot sun
with his stror rat on the back of ’is ’ead an’’is
face a flamin’ red, a writin’ a letter. No gammon,
’e’s a queer bloke, if you’ll understan’ me. I sez
to ’im, ‘So you yarded ’em, Fred.’ ’E lifts ’is
stror rat and sez, ‘Yessir. Thanks to your
eggsellent teaching, sir.’
“We puts the four-mile lot in the yards, an’ I
tells the boys to put Fred’s lot in the ketchin’
pens, so’s we could run ’em orf an’ let ’em go, an’
I’m under the bough shed, an’ ’ad just taken my
knife out to put it on the stone, when I years
Billy Ross sing out, ‘ Yere’s a dead lamb.’ Then
Jack Clancy, ’e yells, ‘Yowwith a broken leg,’
’an Billy M‘Coy, ’e sings out, “Nother dead
lamb,’ an’ Ross sez, ‘Gordstrewth, what’s up?
Yere’s another broken-legged yow.’ I thinks they
wuz lettin’ ’em smother in the corner, if you’ll
understan’ me, an’ I runs down, callin’ ’em all the
jumped-up noochums I could lay me tongue to,
fer not bein’ able to put a little lot like that in the
pens without smotherin’ on ’em. But when I’m
cornin’ down I seen it wuzn’t that, if you’ll
understan’ me, fer the last on ’em wuz runnin’
into the pens quite comfortable, an’ in the re-
ceivin’ yard wuz lyin’ a dead yow, two yows with
broken legs, an’ three dead lambs.
“S’elp me Moses, I wuz ropeable, if you’ll
understan’ me. I didn’t know what to say. Then
I opens out a packit on the lads, an’ wuz a-givin’
’em rats, when Fred, ’e walks up an’ lifts ’is stror
rat an’ sez, ‘ Hi begs your parding, sir, hit har
not the fault of these men hat all. Hif hany
blame his to be hattached to banybody’—that’s
wot ’e sez —‘ hi ham the pusson.’
“ ‘ Whadjer mean,’ I sez.
“ ‘ Well, sir, you told me to yard those sheep,
hand hi tried, hand hi tried, but hi was hat first
hutterly hunable to do so ’ —’e spoke beautiful.
‘ Hi used to put ’em hon to the gate, hand send
the dog round ’em, hand really, sir, the hintelli-
gence displayed by that dog ’
“ ‘Never mind the blarsted dorg,’ I sez ; ‘get
on with yer yarn.’
“‘Hi begs your parding, sir. Well, sir, has
hi was saying, hevery time hi got them hon the
gate, they’d break hevery way hat once, hand hi
ran myself nearly off my legs, sir, hand had hit
not been for that most hintelligent dog, sir ’
“ ‘ Blarst the dorg,’ sez I.
“‘Hi begs your parding, sir. Well, sir, you
know hi halways try to remember what you
teaches me, hand luckily hi remembered ’aving
’eard you say that hif one went through, the rest
would follow, so hi collected quite a number hof
billets hof wood, hand put the dog round the
sheep, hand has they came by me hi threw a
billet violently at a ewe. Hi ’it ’er hon the leg,
sir, hand she fell down, hand ’er lamb, which was
halongside hof ’er, halso fell down ; hi must hof
’it it, too, sir. Two birds with one stone, sir ’ —an’
the jumped-up ijit actually larfed. ’E went on :
‘ The remainder hof the sheep, sir, seemed
frightened, hand scattered hin hevery direction,
so hi sent the dog round them hand dragged the
ewe hinto the yard, hand placed ’er lamb halong-
side ’er. Then hi put the mob hon the gate
hagain, but they wouldn’t go hin. Hi think, sir,
that they are so used to seeing dead sheep hon
this run, sir, since the drought— ’
“ ‘ Dash the drought! Go on.’
“ ‘Well, sir, then hi thinks hit would be better
to get a little mob hin the yard. Hof course hi
knew that a few would be neither here nor there
hout hof the henormous number hon the run, so
hi knocked hover what you see there hand
dragged them hinto the yard, hand then hi got
the rest hin hall right. But, sir, ’ad hi not re-
membered your heggsellent teaching hi never
should ’av got them bin.*
“ Now you see, all them lads wuz a-larfin’ fit to
bust thesselves, an’ I wuz that mad at losin’ them
studs an’ ’is tellin’ me I teached ’im such a
monkey trick, I could ’ardly speak, but I guv ’im a
charnst. I sez, ‘ Why didn’t yer cam)) ’em under
a tree as I tole yer, if yer couldn’t yard ’em? ’
‘“Well, sir, to tell you the trewth, which my
dear mother halways taught me, hi was in a
nurry. Hi wanted to write a line to my little
girl.’
“Well, that fair knocked me bandy, if you’ll
understan’ me. I opens out on ’im, an’ guv ’im
the devil’s own tongue-bastin’, an’ woun' up by
tellin’ ’im to go to the cook an’ get pots to clean
or somethink ’e couldn’t make no mistake about
until I wuz ready to take ’m in fur ’is cheque.
“ ’E wuz goin’ orf quite ’umble, without a word,
if you’ll understan’ me, when that blamed ijit
Billy Ross sez, ‘ Better go back to the little girl,
Fred,’ an’ at that Fred turns roun’. ‘ Don’t you say
nothink,’ ’e sez, an’ Billy larfs, an’ before you
could say ‘ knife ’ Fred wuz at ’im, armsagoin’ like
windmills. ’E took Billy so by surprise that ’e ’it
’im twict, s’elp me ’e did. O’ course the ’its
wouldn’t av ’urt a muskeeter, if you’ll understan’
me, an’ Billy’e just larfs and sez, ‘Turn it up,
Fred,’ an’ wipes ’im, gentle like, acrorst the
mouth with ’is open ’and. Then you never see
such a sight. ’Twuz fur all the world ’sif ’e’d ’it a
negg with a namrner. Fred’s mouth was full of
broken false teeth an’ ’e wuz a-settin’ on the
groun’ pickin’ teeth an’ bits o’ wire an’ gold plate
out’n ’is mouth, an’ cryin’ an’ sayin’ so pitiful,
‘ Ho, what’ll hi do ? Ho what’ll hi do ? She
got me ’em, and she won’t look hat me without
’em. Hand hi ’aven’t got hany money. Ho,
dear ! Ho, dear ! ’ I tell yer it would a’ melted
the ’art of a scrub bull. I forguv ’im on the spot,
as I most in general always did forgive Fred ’is
mistakes —’e wuz so ’umble. An’ the lads talked
about gittm’ up a subscription at once to sen’
Fred’s teeth to the ’orspittle or wherever they
mends them things. Anyway, I’ve lef’ Fred out
there an’ come in on me own, to think things
over.
“You see my weak ’art won’t let me sen’ the
poor devil away in such a fix, an’ I’m a-goin’ down
with cattle d’reckly, an’ if I can keep Fred on till
then I’ll take ’im with me an’ make a man on ’im,
if you’ll understan’ me. Now, if I tells the boss
’bout them yows and lambs, ’e won’t give Fred
campin’-groun’ on the run fur arf a minute, an’ I
ort to tell ’im, an’ I’m in a squandary, an’ I dunno
what to do, if you’ll understan’ me.”
I couldn’t advise, and when I saddled-up and
went on my way, Jim was still brooding over the
matter.
NE'ER-DO-WEEL.
A prosecutor in a recent assault case
pictured the conclusion of the argument very
neatly. “'And, by an act of Providence, I fell
on top of him.”
In the British House of Commons debate
on “ the colonies and the navy,” Naval Minister
Arnold Forster instanced as one reason why
Australia should pay up more to the British
navy, that it might at some time “be pressed by
Japan over immigration.” Well, if the Anglo-
Japanese alliance isn’t sufficient to keep Japan
from attacking Australia, what sort of a curious
treaty of amity is it ? And if that danger is
looming, don’t we want some defence besides the
navy of Japan’s sworn ally, Britain?


Reduced to a Shadow
Could Hardly Walk. Doctors Said Slow Recovery. Disappointed
Doctors and Myself by Getting Well Quickly.
Mr. Wa B, Mackie, of Dunedin, New
Zealand, sends us his photograph and
says:
“Not long ago I was run over by a
wagon, and severely injured. For weeks
I was confined to my bed. I was reduced
to a mere shadow, so weak I could hardly
walk. The doctors told me it would be a
long time before I could regain my health.
I felt I cotild not wait, so procured a
bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. sfou can-
not imagine how quickly nay health and
strength began to return. The first day
I felt an improvement. In a week I had
a better appetite, and was much stronger.
And only a few bottles wrought a most
marvelous change in me. I like your
medicine especially because it seems to
give just the aid nature sometimes
needs.”
i“Th« World’s Createst Family Medicine.”
If you hay* been sick and are not recovering rapidly, just try a bottle of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is tbe strongest tonic you can buy, and it aids nature
wonderfully. The better way is to take tbe Sarsaparilla before you get really
ill. Take it when you first begin to feel poorly. It will cure you quickly
then and save you much suffering and large expense. Yet even when you are
sick, you cannot find a better medicine.
There are many so-called Sarsaparillas. Be sure you get Ayer’s, the oldest,
strongest, and best Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment with imitations.
AYER’S i arsaparilla
Gives Strength to the Weak, Courage to the Depressed
Ayer's Pills cure constipation, biliousness, sick-headache, coated tongue.
Prepared by DE. J. C. AYES & CO.. Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
The Maoriland cold-tea crowd, which
seems to be bursting with energy and enthusiasm,
is hereby recommended to organise a temperance
crusade in England. A recent issue of the Liver-
pool Mercury tells how the police counted, in
hours, 819 women, 216 men, and 35 children
leaving one beer-tavern with either bottles or jugs
of beer. The appalling disproportion of women
is not strongly commented on by the Mercury,
but the item is headed, in a matter-of-fact manner,
“ Heavy drinking by women ” ; and the licensing
court, before which the figures were placed as a
reason why the license of that particular drink-
shop should be viewed with suspicion, didn t seem
greatly surprised. The same paper, in an account
of atrial, prints the evidence of a witness who,
with her husband and a “lady friend,'’ drank
nine quarts of beer —eight quarts fill an ordinary
bucket —during the evening that a murder was
being committed downstairs. Compared to the
British article, the Maoriland “drink fiend
seems a mild and inoffensive animal, and the
Maoriland temperance apostles are wasting "valu-
able time on him.
The municipal corporation at Port Pirie
(9.A.), where the Broken Hill mines do their
smelting and shipping, doesn’t take the Govern-
ment Gazette for its guide. It wanted, the other
day, to announce that “ a reward of -£1 would be
offered,” &c., and it put it this way :
Municipality of Port Pirib.
£1 will be paid for evidence that will hang the brainless
yahoos who interfere with the public lamps. Ratepaj ers
requested to have eyes about to stop damage and was >e.
—W. G. Wilson, Town Clerk.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
Gross insult by “ L.W.” :
Some one has been veiling forth the virtues of the Celt.
The upheaval of the Celt is a periodic event, and is in
some way distantly related to the Australian drought
cycles, and the spots on the sun. Personally I have
always found that you can make a fast friend and sworn
ally of the Celt bv simply remarking m an affable
manner, “ Good-night, Sergeant 1 ” _ The Celtic chest
swells immediately, there is a more dignified atmospheie
about the movements of his hind legs ; and after passing
that remark three nights running you are free to commit
any crime in the calendar—murder, arson, abduction ;
anything, in fact,hut the crime of tearing “me uniform.
Yes, the Celt is a very fine fellow as long as you address
him as “ Sergeant"- -unless he is a sergeant then lam
always careful to address him as “Inspector. That,
however, has to be done with discretion—if done too often
or too suddenly, the Celt is liable to burst.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
“ F.” writes about that most hopeless @f
beings—the cheap, plain, inefficient clerk •
A Royal Commission to inquire into the general
workings of Melbourne University has got some interest-
ing evidence re “ higher commercial education in Vic-
toria. The secretary of the Vic. Bankers Institute
alleged that the average bank clerk, from college, is
densely ignorant of bookkeeping. An Italian accountant
described Australian clerks as mechanical and helpless as
compared with the clerks turned out b.v the commercial
schools of Italy, where a knowledge of trench is compul-
sory. Another witness testified that Australian efforts
at teaching mercantile subjects are absolutely absurd
from a Swiss point of view. The secretary of the Vic.
Accountants and Clerks’ Association said that he hafl
been trying for 18 years to induce its members to
study, and had come to the conclusion that tne
hard-working laborer is a better
the clerk.” Also Mr. Isaac Jacobs, from the Melbourne
Chamber of Manufactures, repeated the old story that a
clerk made in Germany is far more valuable than tne
native born article. Touching which fact, a member ot
the commission observed that “ the Australian clerk
bowl the German out first ball, though. The whole
truth of what’s the matter with the commercial young
man of the Commonwealth is explained in that patriotic
eynicism. He can bowl the German out first ban. He
studies hard at orioket, devotes much care and attention
to football, is full of information concerning every gee-
gee that doesn’t win the Oup, and has an eye forJiny sort
of main ohance bar the particular office job on which he
is wearily engaged. The Australian clerk seems to ex-
haust his commercial instinct in Vie oongenial att P
get another billet He has the activity of the rolling
stone.
“ B.” : A true bill of an agricultural lady
in southern N.S.W., who had received aid from
the Lord Mayor’s Fund. She started at the hoot
counter with a pair of up-to-date kid boots for her-
self ; in the millinery departnient she purchased
several yards of cheap lace, insertion and turn-
miner; she next devoted her attention to the mer-
oery and got two white shirts for her “old man,
whom she said “was very particular wot he
wore ! ” Having a balance of 7s. 6d., she invested
in two silk handkerchiefs and a silk tie . Ihe
balance of the relief money wasn’t enough to run
to tucker, so she gave the “ rag merchant a piece
of her mind for not reducing prices to allow poor
people a chance to buy a bit of food.
In spite of the vote which was to de-
moralise them all when they got it and to lead to
a general forsaking of the cradle, not to mention
the domestic sewing machine and the washtub,
Maoriland women are, in the matter of employ-
ment, just about where they were ten years ago.
The largest proportional increase has been in
“commerce” —which presumably includes the u
women auctioneers and valuers, and the 12 estate
agents, in addition to the 493 “clerks, cashiers,
and accountants.” The only male person, in fact,
whose bread-and-jam looks like being seriously
threatened is the “clerk, cashier, and account-
ant ” ; his numbers have actually dwindled from
2856 to 2145 in these 10 years. All wage-earning
M L. women are divided into four groups, and
the female of the “domestic” group is more
numerous than the females in any other two
classes put together. In fact, the Mary Ann who
washes the dishes and “gives notice ’ at intervals
is almost as numerous as the whole of the others
put together. In the “professional group
there are 59 dentists (there were only seven 10
years ago), 56 chemists, and 6 doctors : also there
are as many as 52 ladies who announce themselves
as “the woman’s friend,” and occasionally, m
dull times, mix the “ friendship ’’ with an invita-
tion to come and hear all about the fair man who
is coming oyer the sea, or the dark man who is
dangerous and ought to be shunned.
“Chasselas” writes from a gold-mining
Re a Bulletin par on miners’ consumption. An under
grounder working- in the deep quartz mines of Stawell
(Vic ) tell me they go at the game with open eyes, or
else deluded by the hope of something better turning up
shortlv. But the family increases and the 508. a weea
wages' are a necessity, and the something never turns up.
After a few years they know they are doomed to work on
till the horrible lung choke lays them out, or else they
end the agony by the surer and simpler road of suicide.
Pathetic to hear my informant, who had worked two
years in the mines, tell of the constant and fruitless watch
kept by the wife of an old hand who had just suicided
after being often prevented. Miners living in the midst
of this death look very kindly on mates who take the
short road out and the only cure for the disease. There s
a crimson streak on all gold won from the deep mines
Eucalyptus oil, which Australia considers
its exclusive property, equally with the Southern
Cross, has been claimed in Germany as the latest
cure for tuberculosis. Specialists in Sydney have
received the announcement with chilliness, and
their scepticism has aroused two members of the
Technical Museum to publish half a column on
the properties ef the oil. Their whoop winds up
«-.s follows,:
The following constituents are now known to occur in
eucalyptus oil, and are distributed most unequally among
the oils of the 150 species Eucalyptol, eudesmo , gera-
niol, methyl, alcohol, ethyl alcohol, butyl alcohol amyl
alcohol, aroipadendral, citron, citronellal, butaldehyde,
valeraldehyde, piperitone, geran.vl-acetate, amyl-eudes-
mate, valeric acid ester, acetic acid ester, eudesmic acid,
acetic acid, aromadendrene, pinene (both dextro and
laevorotatory), phellandrene and cymene. Four or five
of these constituents occur only in eucalyptus oils, ana
are new to science.
This probably will explain the dislike mosquitoes
have for it. Eucalyptus oil seems to contain
almost everything except whisky and bedsteads.
VERY PREVALENT
Influenza is always more or less prevalent at
this season of the year. This disease is very
similar to a severe cold, and if allowed to take
its oourse is liable to cause serious results. The
best treatment for influenza is to avoid exposure,
and take Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. This
medicine gives immediate relief, and, if used as
directed, will ward off all dangerous consequences.
It leaves the system in a natural and healthy con-
dition. It always cures, and cures quickly. 1/6.—*
A
Xlt SINGLE BOX OF
BeEGHAM’S pills
To Remember to keep a box by you, a/H I
To Remember to take a doae of the Ptlis
at the proper time ia the
AN cure and chase away more Ills
than you’re aware oft
tfV«
ABC of health
They Ensues
A CLEAR HEAD,
PURE BLOOD,
A HEALTHY LIVER,
A SOUND STOfIACH,
And therefore as a Natural Consequence
THEY PREVENT AND CURE
NERVOUSNESS
INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS
CONSTIPATION
SICK-HEADACHE
AN/E MIA
FLATULENCY
DEPRESSION
BACKACHE
GRAVEL
SKIN ERUPTIONS
INSOMNIA
THE GREATEST TREASURE in the BEDROOM is a box of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same prioe.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
M.B.—Visitors oply pay for wbat they actually baVc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying ’for a
room on arrival* and Meals as they are had.
Apartments : BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SyPNEY.
vnTF Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
f7r REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Consults by Letter, £l-
- COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
IHE BRO WN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
u
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., I. R.C.S.E.,
L.P.P.S.a., Im. M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
niseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
nersonallv or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 El i*abeth-9t., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
MrUh’ods discarded DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
D sS,i Affections, Paralysis, Los, of E ner e y, Long, Heart, SKln .nd .1,
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE * KNOjt-MEROEK ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Le It’has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET,


• * <*
• * * •
.
&C/f,£/snd.r& svsrvcu
4u~/z*£e' ctsnx)tze£\
sMr/tJsOz.
2 'j3 Seojyt 'ft
THE BULLETIN STOEY BOOK:
Price 4s 6d, postage 6d.
CURIOUS
BOOKS
PHOTOS.
The Best Address for
English, French,
German
Books and Photos,
Apply—
-116 BOX, PARIS.
2/- for Oatal. and Minlafc.
m
79 m &
mm
mm
Marer Ibb#
WE CHIP ON AFPaOVJL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. FuHy warranted.
Latest
Mo^e.s 1
£2.10 t0£5.5.0
Duiwop Tyres, steel or Wood Kims,
Free Witeigsi- Mud 'Guards and Brakes.
CAR.I SAGE PAID
To any tort in Australasia .
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write f«>r Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2|d. Stamp. Address Dept 345 D
Mead Cycle Co.
Chicago,
U.S.A.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Jole Australasian Representatives for
Boiler Feed Pump.
®r SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Cc., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pumping Engine Co. London* NC’.v Vo,*.
Warren Webster & Co. New Jersojfk
Enquiries Invited for
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
TANGYES
OIL ENGINES
Stationary and Portable,
For Shearing 1 , Wood & Chaff-Cutting,
Pumping, Electric Lighting, &c.
Sole Representatives in Australia:
BENNIE, TEARE & GO.,
Mining & Engineering Furnishers,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
. . . .. .... rag.**-
IRRIGATING PLANTS a Speciality.
*■ -
H. P.
Have for Sale and to arrive
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 435 Bourke Street.
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boiiers,
Injectors, Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers’
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shafting, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil, Brunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
•>
! -
mm
s»-
mm*
■i
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ALL KINDS OF
ENGINES & BOILERS
PUMPS,
MINING MACHINERY
And APPLIANCES,
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS & FITTINGS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
ETC., ETO.
Bushman
Harry Morant:
His 'Ventures
and Verses.
and Buccaneer
By FRANK RENAR.
Price 11
Free.
¥
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO.,
SYDNEY.
r •
Sot, 5J* x Bs* x 5*
IHT We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft -
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton Ik Co. Ltd
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
DRINK.
CARDHER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
AUSTRALIAN
KEEN BLADES” PRUNER
(GAFFYS’ PATENT)
Will
Cut
Close
Without
Injuring:
the
Bud; or
Crushing:
the Bark.
MADE IN SHEFFIELD.
For Sale by all
Seedsmen and
Ironmongers*
Price,
8/6
each,
or posted to any
town in N.S.W.,
Beit extra.
K GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
71 CLARENCE STREET.
District Agents Wanted.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS Of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Trewhella Bros.’
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
f
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with Whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, lons Prick
Double Purchase Jack 4 65-
ii ii ji 6
Single „ „ 2i 40 -
With AUTOMATIC LOWERINC CEAR, 5/- extra.
Awarded Special Prise at, E. A. Show, Sydney, 190 S.
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
Trewhella Bros., Trentham, Victoria,
or H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
