

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
•9
107 Kent
Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILAB .
13,800 MACHINES SOLD.
Paris
1900
Grand
Prix.
Two
Goid
Medals
Three
Silver
Medals
AMUSEMENTfor OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects),The Pocket Companion
or Combination Comet, Candle and Match Box, the great
Yankee Bicycle Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all,
the Famous Wizard of the North's Disappearing Coin
Trick (instructions enclosed). This splendid packet posted
to any address in Australasia (Free) on receipt of 2s. fid.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
m
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ■> 85 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for BOSTON, PROCTOR & CO., Ltd., LINCOLN. Crank
INISHING THRASHING MACHINES, With Patent ECCENTRIC MOTION Oil- °BIX WEEKS'
FinisHing Thraßhing Machine., _ withSelf-Oiling: Drumshaft Boar.l n g*‘ STEAM and OV McLa «" 8
■ Finishing Tnrasmng macmnos, wun oe.x-v,...r.» =‘.T^«Vi"* s and~OIL ENGINES. McLaren’s
* ORK 'ss.ssa-ASWia
For FULL PARTICULARS and ILLUSTRATED LISTS apply to - - GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 85 PITT STR
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
IT Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Explosive. Cor. CLARENCE& KING STS., SYDNEY
THORNES
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBART,
vfa—
jjadley’s Orient jotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
WELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Sou, Ltd., 117 York St.
SYDNEY—
Royal, April, 1903,
CHAMPION CUP
and
SIX FIRST PRIZES.
m
MELBOURNE—
August, 1902, Grand
Championship of
Australasia.
ADELAIDE —Champion
Cup & 8 First Prizes.
w
mjuOi
Indigestion
The Robber of Health;
The Bane of Existence;
The Sapper of Vitality ;
The foundation of the ills
that flesh is heir to.
Pearson's PEPTO-CHLOR
has relieved thousands of sufferers. Why not you ?
PEPTO-CHLOR makes unsteady nerves steady, and
cures the source of the trouble, viz., Indigestion.
A GREAT NERVE TONIC.
Sold by all Chemists at 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle. If
your chemist does not stock Pepto-chlor, send direct to
the Australasian Head Office, Sydney Stock Exchange
Buildings, 113 Pitt-st., Sydney. Add 9d. for postage.-
/ERTEX
CELLULAR
SHIRTS and
UNDERWEAR.
Ladies* and Gentlemen's Garments.
A Positive Safeguard Against Chills.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST, PATTERNS, Etc.
POST FREE.
D. BRAHAM & CO.,
Cellular Outfitters,
SOLE AGENTS IN fr.g.W.—
73 & 75 KING! STREET, SYDNEY,
THE
PLUM
' or ’
r
*V 4 l
PLUM’
GENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind or
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “ PLUM " RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. fid.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price: j
Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2ls.
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful Case, 3Ds.
Sole Agents
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of the World.
- Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEIM, 680 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVE RYWHERE.
“OnOur Selection.” . „
((
i
Price, 6s,
Steele
’ Co. Ltd., Sydney.
&
ASTHMA and BRONCHITiS CURED
By using CASE’S ASTHMA CORE, made -from tlve Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly) eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
*j. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
Are YOU
Like This—?
mm
II your scalp is
like this, wouldn’t
you like to see it
well covered with
hair ?
Wouldn’t you like
to have it like it
used to be?
Of course you
would.
TRY-
m
It’s different from all other hair pre-
parations because it’s better.
You will follow directions,and by-and-
bye you will be gratified by seeing the
hair spring up slowly, but none the less
surely ; and in a little while your scalp
v - will be thoroughly covered with hair.
If you will faithfully foNow my in-
structions with every bottle, I guarantee
that you will get the above result.
GAPIIjLA is obtainable at all chemists,
2s. 6d. a bottle : or I will post a bottle direct
to you for 3s. 3d.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS,
Sole Proprietor and Inventor,
164 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
r v ——■<r— I ".^r —v v ▼ —v v v —v ■v v ■v
Spa Water. A Natural Liquid Food. From Helidon, Queensland
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1235 ]
[Thursday, October 15, 1903.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


Book trade Advertisement.
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S H *1 II
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Lewis, Lost in Blunderland, 2s 6d, postage 4d.
Whittaker, Electrical Engineers’ Book, 4s, p. 4d.
Chambers’s Etymological Dictionary, Is 3d, p. sd.
Middleton, Water Supply, 10s 6d, p. 9d.
Griffith (Major Arthur), The Wrong- Road, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Trowbridge, Lady Patricia, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Glyn, Reflections of Ambrosine, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Rowans, The Modern Steam Boiler, 255, postage Is.
Geikie, Textbook ot Geology,2 vols,, 4th Edt.,36s, p. Is. 6d.
Bell, Art of Illumination, I2s 6d, p. Is 2d.
Swanzy, Diseases of the Bye (Sth Edt.), 12s 6d, p. Bd.
Griffith (George), Side Lights on Convict Life, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Boothby, Twofold Inheritance. 2s Cd & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hocking (S. 1C), The Tempter’s Power, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
71
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
(registered) THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, and ALL AFFECTIONS of
the THROAT and LUNGS, and the PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
ASK FOR HUDSON’S, and take no substitute.
•<a
Cu^s
In Tins, 1/6.
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
Containing 1 no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
For COUGHS, THROAT, LOSS
They impart a clear anX silvery tone to the Voice,
and, owing to the instaiV relief they give in all
cases of irritation, they s\® now used by Leading
Singers and Public Speakera
May be taken daily by old and young. Their antiseptic properties prevent abnorn
and are thus helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists. Tins, 1/6. A
States and New Zealand. Sydney Depot :6 & 7 Queen’s Place.
THE RED PAGE .
Shaw and Superficial.
G. B. Shaw—journalism’s “ Handy Andy,” literature’s
“ Harry Lorrequer is back with old jests from a new
adventure. In Man and Superman —a preface, a play,
and a series of.. . platitudes—he is nearly as interesting,
nearly as amusing as ever. “ Quite,” one cannot expect:
for his age is 47, and age must serve. It was an American
commentator who said wittily that Shaw was always
interesting, even when he was n’t amusing; and wit
gathers truth in the passage of years. To say that he is
always stimulating, never inspiring, is to plumb more
deeply.
Singular, indeed, how little on the great scale Shaw has
recorded, for all his pother and fuss. On the small scale,
of course, he has fluttered magnificently : his discon-
tented mind has been a perpetual feast during a dozen
years and more. Yet, if you think and recollect, it was
essentially a Barmecide’s feast of fine and empty platters.
Why ?—with a mind in such gestation, to bring forth so
little living : with a pen of such gesticulation, to write so
little that remains.
One must come to the explanation of shallowness,
superficiality, despite all that equipment. “ Shaw has no
back to his head.” He thinks without feeling. This
seems a strange conclusion to the Socialist, the sympa-
thise the champion of lost causes. Yet, closely scanned,
Shaw’s pathos, Shaw’s indignation, Shaw’s wrath against
injustice, look like pure feats of intellect. The whole of
Shaw’s work gives you the impression of disembodied
intellect in a state of effervescence. Assuredly he does
not lack sincerity, yet he rarely conveys the force of sin-
cerity. Hegiveslight without heat.
In Man and, Superman the light is less than in Candida,
for example. Always wordy, always preachy, Shaw now
inclines to preach too much in too many words. The
essence of his book is an explanation of Nietzsche’s notion
that the best that can be done by idealists in the Present
is to lay a foundation for the Future. Shaw develops
the notion into a practical doctrine of breeding
humanity from the best men and women. With a
thousand diverting verbal gambols, his play teaches that
the force of life is the only force that can be depended
upon. Democracy is a cheat; progress an illusion ; it is
the melancholy vestryman of St. Pancras who affirms it,
outvoted in the matter of tram extension. More than
ever, one finds Shaw dealing with second-hand goods. He
repeats himself and others; and his preconceptions prevent
him from thoroughly grasping Nietzsche’s principle and
its corollaries. In spite of his agility and dexterity, he
does not go to the root of the human matter. Had he
gone, to be sure, he could not have been printed for
public sale in England. Yet one receives the impression
that he has said as much as he knew, not merely as much
as he could.
With all cavils, Shaw’s book is good reading. For
Australians who will not have the opportunity of reading,
an excursion of quotation may bring profit. First, from
the preface, which (as usual) drags in the whole Shaw
universe.
The Stiufe of the Sexes.
That the men, to protect themselves against a
too aggressive prosecution of the women’s busi-
ness, have set up a feeble romantic convention
that the initiative in sex business must always
come from the man, is true; but the pretence is
sq shallow that even in the theatre, that last
sanctuary of unreality, it imposes only on the in-
experienced. In Shakespear’s plays the woman
always takes the initiative. In his problem plays
and his popular plays alike the love interest is the
interest of seeing the woman hunt the man down.
She may do it by blandishment, like Rosalind, or
by stratagem, like Mariana; but in every case
the relation between the woman and the man is
the same: she is the pursuer and contriver, he
the pursued and disposed of. When she is baffled,
like Ophelia, she goes mad and commits suicide;
and the man goes straight from her funeral to a
fencing match...
The pretence that women do not take the
initiative is part of the farce. Why, the whole
world is strewn with snares, traps, gins and pit-
falls for the capture of men by women. Give
women the vote, and in five years there will be a
crushing tax on bachelors. Men, on the other
hand, attach penalties to marriage, depriving
women of property, pf the franchise, of the free
use of their limbs, of that ancient symbol of
immortality, the right to make oneself at
home in the house of God by taking off
the hat, of everything that he (sic) can force
woman to dispense with without compelling
himself to dispense with her. All in vain. Woman
must marry, because the race must perish without
her travail: if the risk of death and the certainty
of pain, danger, and unutterable discomforts can-
not deter her, slavery and swaddled ankles will
not. And yet we assume that the force that
carries women through all these perils and hard-
ships stops abashed before the primnesses of our
etiquette for young ladies. It is assumed that
the woman must wait, motionless, until she is
wooed. Nay, she often does wait motionless.
That is how the spider waits for the fly. But the
spider spina her web. And if the fly, like my
hero, shows a strength that promises to extricate
him, how swiftly does she abandon her pretence
of passiveness, and openly fling coil after coil
about him until he is secured for ever !. . .
Genius and Woman.
Accordingly, we observe in the man of genius
all the unscrupulousness and all the “self-sacri-
fice ” (the two. things are the same) of Womap.
He will risk the stake and the cross; starve, when
necessary, in a garret all his life; study women
and live on their work and care as Darwin studied
worms and lived upon sheep; work his nerves into
rags without payment, a sublime altruist in his
disregard of himself, an atrocious egotist in his
disregard of others. Here Woman meets a pur-
pose as impersonal, as irresistible as her own ;
and the clash is sometimes tragic. When it is
complicated by the genius being a woman, then
the game is one for a king of critics: your George
Sand becomes a mother to gain experience for the
novelist and to develop her, and gobbles up men
of genius—Chopins, Mussets, and the like, as
mere hors d’ceuvres. . . .
Hence it is that the world's books get written,
its pictures painted, its statues modelled, its
symphonies composed, by people who are free
from the otherwise universal dominion of the
tyranny of sex. Which leads us to the conclusion,
astonishing to the vulgar, that art, instead of
being before all things the expression of the nor-
mal sexual situation, is really the only depart-
ment in which sex is a superseded and secondary
power, with its consciousness so confused and its
purpose so perverted that its ideas are mere
fantasy to common men...
When it comes to sex relations, the man of
genius does not share the common man’s danger
of capture, nor the woman of genius the common
woman’s overwhelming specialisation. And that
is why our seriptures and other art works, when
they deal with love, turn from honest attempts at
science in physics to romantic nonsense, erotic
ecstasy, or the stern asceticism of satiety (“the
road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom ” said
William Blake ; for “you never know what is
enough unless you know what is more than
enough ”).
It is not novel—nor quite accurate ; but it is effec-
tively put. When he deals with literature, Shaw is
more personal, more original.
Shakespear Set Right.
The truth is, world was to Shakespear a
great “stage of fools ” on which he was utterly
bewildered. He could see no sort of sense in
living at all ; and Dickens saved himself from the
despair of the dream in The Chimes by taking the
world for granted and busying himself with
details. Neither of them could do anything with
a serious positive character: they could place a
human figure before you with perfect verisimili-
tude ; but when the moment came for making it
live and move, they found, unless it made them
laugh, that they had a puppet on their hands, and
had to invent some artificial external stimulus to
make it work. This is what is the matter with
Hamlet all through: he has no will except
in his bursts of temper. Foolish Bardolators
make a virtue of this after their fashion ;
they declare that the play is the tragedy of
irresolution; but all Shakspear’s projections of
the deepest humanity he knew have the same
defecttheir characters and manners are lifelike;
but their actions are forced on them from without,
and the external force is grotesquely inappro-
priate except when it is quite conventional, as in
the case of Henry Y. Falstaff is more vivid than
any of these serious, reflective characters, because
he is self-acting; his motives are his own appe-
tites, and instincts and humours. Richard 111,
too, is delightful as the whimsical comedian, who
stops a funeral to make love to the corpse’s
widow ; but when, in the next act, he is replaced
by a stage-villain who smothers babies and offs
with people’s heads, we are revolted at the impos-
ture and repudiate the changeling.
Faulconbridge, Coriolanus, Leontes are admir-
able descriptions of instinctive temperaments;
indeed, the play of Coriolanus is the greatest of
Shakespear’s comedies; but description is not
philosophy ; and comedy neither compromises the
author nor reveals him. He must be judged by
those characters into which he puts what he
knows of himself, his Hamlets and Macbeths and
Lears and Prosperos. If these characters are
agonising in a void about factitious melo-
dramatic murders and revenges and the like,
whilst the comic characters walk with their feet on
solid ground, vivid and amusing, you know that
the author has much to shew and nothing to
teach. The comparison between Fa'staff and
Prosperois like the comparison between Mica wber
and David Copperfield. At the end of the book
you know Micawber, whereas you only know what
has happened to David, and are not interested
enough in him to wonder what his politics or
religion might be, if anything so stupendous as a
religious or political idea, or a general idea of any
sort, were to occur to him. He is tolerable as a
child ; but he never becomes a man, and might be
left out of his own biography altogether but for
his usefulness as a stage confidant, a Horatio, or
“ Charles his friend ” —what they call on the stage
a feeder.
“O, Chase Me!”
The Play is concerned with the pursuit of Jack Tanner,
a mere man, by a woman—Ann Whitefield—who is an
agent of Superman : i.e., who represents, like all her sex
(in Shaw’s notion), the effort of the Life-Force to perpe-
tuate the race. The man fights for his liberty ; runs
away for his life ; but in the end the woman captures
him! Tanner is Shaw’s mouthpiece : and Shaw himself
was n’t captured in marriage till he was 42. His foil in
the play is Octavius or “’Tavy”—a dreamy, , poetical
person—who wishes nothing better than to become Ann’s
victim. But the Life-Force, as Shaw carefully points
out, does n’t care about dreamy, poetical persons—they
are not apt to be good progenitors of Superman.
Tanner sees Ann quite clearly as a devilish instrument
of destruction. “To Octavius she is an enchantingly
beautiful woman, in whose presence the world becomes
transfigured, and the puny limits of individual conscious-
ness are suddenly made infinite by a mystic memory of
the whole life of the race to its beginnings in the east, or
even back to the paradise from which it fell. She is to
him the reality of romance, the inner good sense of non-
sense, the unveiling of his eyes, the freeing of his soul,
the abolition of time, place and circumstance, the ethe-
realisation of his blood into rapturous rivers of the very
water of life itself, the revelation of all the mysteries and
the sanctification of all the dogmas..."
Tanner tries vainly to open his eyes—
Tanner : Tavy; thats the devilish side of a
woman’s fascination; she makes you will your
own destruction.
Octavius : But it’s not destruction ; it’s fulfil-
ment.
Tanner : Yes, of her purpose ; and that pur-
pose is neither her happiness nor yours, but
Nature’s. Vitality in a woman is a blind fury of
creation. She sacrifices herself to it; do you
think she will hesitate to sacrifice you ?
Octavius: Why, it is just because she is self-
sacrificing that she will not sacrifice those she
loves.
Tanner : That is the profoundest of mistakes,
Tavy. It is the self-sacrificing women that sacri-
fice others most recklessly. Because they are un-
selfish, they are kind in little things. Because
they have a purpose which is not their own pur-
pose, but that of the whole universe, a man is
nothing to them but an instrument of that pur-
pose.
Octavius : Don’t be ungenerous, Jack. They
take the tenderest care of us.
Tanner : Yes, as a soldier takes care of his
rifle, or a musician of his violin. But do they
allow us any purpose or freedom of our own ? Will
they lend us to one another ? Can the strongest
man escape from them, once he is appropriated ?
They tremble when we are in danger, and weep
when we die; but the tears are not for us, but for
a father wasted, a son’s breeding thrown away.
They accuse us of treating them as a mere means
to our pleasure; but how can so feeble and transient
a folly as a man’s selfish pleasure enslave a woman
as the whole purpose of Nature embodied in a
woman can enslave a man ?
Octavius : What matter, if the slavery makes
us happy ?
The Selfishness of the Artist.
Tanner : No matter at all if you have no pur-
pose of your own, and are, like most men, a mere
breadwinner. But you, Tavy, are an artist; that
is, you have a purpose as absorbing and as un
scrupulous as a woman’s purpose.
Octavius : Not unscrupulous.
Tanner : Quite unscrupulous. The true artist
will let his wife starve, his children go barefoot,
his mother drudge for his living at seventy, sooner
than work at anything but his art. To women he
is half vivisector, half vampire. He gets into
intimate relations with them to study them, to
strip the mask of convention from them, to sur-
prise their inmost secrets, knowing that they have
the power to rouse his deepest creative energies,
to rescue him from his cold reason, to make him
see visions and dream dreams, to inspire him, as
he calls it. He persuades women that they may
do this for their own purpose whilst he really
means them to do it for his. He steals the
mother’s milk and blackens it to make printers
ink to scoff at her and glorify ideal women with.
He pretends to spare her the pangs of child-
bearing so that he may have for himself the
tenderness and fostering that belong of right
to her children. Since marriage began, the
great artist has been known as a bad hus-
band. But he is worse; he.is a child-robber,
a blood-sucker, a hypocrite and a cheat. Perish
the race and wither a thousand women if only the
sacrifice of them enable him to act Hamlet better,
to paint a finer picture, to write a deeper poem, a
greater play, a profounder philosophy ! For mark
you, Tavy, the artist’s work is to show us our-
selves as we really are. Our minds are nothing
but this knowledge of ourselves ; and he who adds
a jot to such knowledge creates new mind as
surely as any woman creates new men. In the
rage of that creation he is as ruthless as the
woman, as dangerous to her as she to him, and as
horribly fascinating. Of all human struggles
there is none so treacherous and remorseless as the
struggle between them. And it is all the deadlier
because, in your romanticist cant, they love one
another.
The Misogynist’s Complaint.
To Ann herself Shaw-Tanner holds similar discourse—
You had acquired by instinct that damnable
woman’s trick of heaping obligations on a man,
of placing yourself so entirely and helplessly at
his mercy that at hist he dare not take a step
without running to you for leave. I know a
poor wretch whose one desire in life is to run away
from his wife. She prevents him by threatening
to throw herself in front of the engine of the train
he leaves her in. That is what all women do. If
we try to go where you do not want us to go there
is no law to prevent us; but when we take the
first step your breasts are under our foot as it
descends; your bodies are under our wheels as we
start. No woman shall ever enslave me in that
way.
Various apothegms—
It is a woman’s business to get married as soon
a 3 possible, and a man’s to keep unmarried as long
as he can.
If women could do without work % and we ate
their children’s bread instead of inaking it, they
would kill us as the spider kills her mate or as
the bees kill the drone.
Hell is the home of honour, duty, justice, and
the rest of the seven deadly virtues. All the
wickedness on earth is done in their name : where
else but in hell should they have their reward ’
You may remember that on earth—though, of
course, we never confessed it—the death of anyone
we knew, even those we liked best, was always
mingled with a certain satisfaction at being finally
done with them. . . Yes, a funeral was always a
festivity in black, especially the “funeral of a
relative. . . . . ,
Hell is full of musical amateurs; music is the
brandy of the damned. . .
Shaw and The Devil.
Some of these genial remarks occur in an extraordinary
dream-interlude of Shaw-Tanner’s. The supposition is
that Tanner is a lineal descendant of Don Juan.
Pursued by Ann, he flies in a motor-car to Spain,
and is bailed up in the Sierra Nevada by
“Mendoza Limited,” a firm of automobile-robbers.
Act 111 is taken up with the vision seen by Tanner and
Mendoza asleep. Don Juan and Mephistopheies, the
supposititious ancestors, rise in the night and stmt
through parts similar to those played by the descendants.
And they talk Shaw, Shaw, Shaw.. .
The Devil : . . . the strain of living in Heaven
is intolerable. There is a notion that I was turned
out of it; but, as a matter of fact, nothing could
have induced me to stay there. 1 simply left it,
and organised this place. . .
The Statue (in “Don Giovanni”): . . . Let me
complete my friend Lucifer’s similitude of the
classical concert. At every one of those concerts
in England you will find rows of weary people
who are there, not because they really like classi-
cal music, but because they think they ought to
like it. Well, there is the same thing in heaven.
A number of people sit there in glory, not because
they are happy, but because they think they owe
it to their position to be in heaven. They are
almost all English. . .
The Devil: An Englishman thinks he is moral
when he is only uncomfortable. . .
Don Juan : As our German friend put it irf his
poem, “the poetically nonsensical here is good
sense ; and the Eternal Feminine draws us ever
upward and on without getting us a step
farther ...
The Man and the Woman.
Don Juan : I found that when I had touched a
woman’s imagination she would allow me to per-
suade myself that she loved me; but when my
suit was granted she never said “I am happy;
my love is satisfied ”; she always said, first, "At
last, the barriers are down,” and second, “When
will you come again ? ”
Ana : That is exactly what men say.
Don Juan : I protest I never said it. But all
women say it. Well, these two speeches always
alarmed me; for the first meant that the lady’s
impulse had been solely to throw down my forti-
fications and gain ray citadel; and the second
openly announced that henceforth she regarded
me as her property, and counted my time as
already wholly at her disposal. . .
' Bah ! what need I add ? Do you not under-
stand that when I stood face to face with Woman,
every fibre in my clear, critical brain warned me
to spare her and save myself. My morals said No.
My conscience said No. My chivalry and pity for
her said No. My prudent regard for myself said
No. My ear, practised on a thousand songs and
symphonies; my eye, exercised on a thousand
paintings; tore her voice, her features, her colour
;o shreds. I caught all those tell-tale resemblances
;o her father and mother, by which I knew what
she would belike in thirty years time. I noted
the gleam of gold from a dead tooth in the laugh-
ing mouth. I made curious observations of the
strange odours of the chemistry of the nerves. The
visions of my romantic reveries, in which I had
trod the plains of Heaven with a deathless, age-
less creature of coral and ivory, deserted me in
that supreme hour. I remembered them and
desperately strove to recover their illusion; but
they now seemed the emptiest of inventions; my
judgment was not to be corrupted ; my brain still
said No on every issue. 'And whilst I was in the
act of framing my excuse to the lady, Life seized
me and threw me into her arms as a sailor throws
a scrap of fish into the mouth of. a seabird...
The Life Force respects marriage only because
marriage is a contrivance of its own to secure the
greatest number of children and the closest care
of them. For honour, chastity, and all the rest
of your moral figments it cares not a rap. Mar-
riage is the most licentious of human institutions—
The Statue (protesting) : Really !
Man, Woman, and Maeeiage.
Don Juan (determinedly): I say the most licen-
tious of human institutions ; that is the secret of
its popularity. And a woman seeking a husband
is the most unscrupulous of all the beasts of prey.
The confusion of marriage with morality has done
more to destroy the conscience of the human race
than any other single error. Come, Ana ! do not
look shocked : you know better than any of us
that marriage is a mantrap baited with simulated
accomplishments and delusive idealisations. When
your sainted mother, by dint of scoldings and
punishments, forced you to learn how to play half-
a-dozen pieces on the spinet—which she hated as
much as you did —had she any other purpose
than to delude your suitors into the belief that
your husband would have in his home an angel
who would fill it with melody, or at least play him
to sleep after dinner ? You married my friend
Octavio: did you ever open the spinet from the
lour when the ohurch united him to you?...
The day is coming when great nations will find
their numbers dwindling from census to census;
when the six-roomed villa will rise in price above
the family mansion ; when the . viciously reckless
poor and the stupidly pious rich will delay the
extinction of the race only by degrading it; whilst
the boldly prudent, the thriftily selfish and
ambitious, the imaginative and poetic, the lovers
of money and solid comfort, the worshippers of
Buccess, of art, and of love, will all oppose to the
Force of Life the device of sterility.
The Statue: That is all very eloquent, my
young friend ; but if you had lived to Ana’s age,
6r even to mine, you would have learned that the
people who get rid of the fear of poverty and
children and all the other family troubles, and
devote themselves to having a good time of it,
only leave their minds free for the fear of old age
and ugliness and impotence and death. The
childless labourer is more tormented by his wife’s
idleness and her constant demands for amusement
and distraction than he could be by twenty
children; and his wife is more wretched than he...
Then we come back to the real characters—and Shaw—
The only really simple thing is to go straight for
what you want and grab it...
No man is a match for a woman, except with a
poker and a pair of hobnailed boots. Not always
even then.
Tanneb : Marriage is to me apostasy, profana-
tion of the sanctuary of my soul, violation of my
birthright, shameful surrender, ignominious capi-
tulation, acceptance of defeat. I shall decay like
a thing that has served its purpose and is done
with ; I shall change from a man with a future to
a man with a past; I shall see in the greasy eyes
of all the other husbands their relief at the arrival
of a new prisoner to share their ignominy. The
young men will scorn me as one who has sold out;
to the women I, who have always been an enigma
and a possibility, shall be merely somebody else’s
property —and damaged goods at that; a second-
hand man at best.
Shaw’s Maxims.
Protest is useless : Ann takes him.
But Shaw is not done with. He adds sixty pages of
“ The Revolutionist’s Hand-Book ’’—partly sermon,partly
maxim. The sermon is dull, and the maxim on the whole
is not bright. Generally, Shaw is clever without being
witty ; bright without being brilliant. Follow's the best
of him
Never resist temptation; prove all things; hold
fast that which is good.
The golden rule is that there are no golden
rules.
Democracy substitutes election by the incom-
petent many for appointment by the corrupt few.
Liberty means responsibility. That is why
most men dread it.
Vice is waste of life. Poverty, obedience, and
celibacy are the canonical vices.
A moderately honest man with a moderately
faithful wife, moderate drinkers both, in a
moderately healthy house, that is the true middle
class unit.
The reasonable man adapts himself to the
world; the unreasonable man persists in trying
to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all pro-
gress depends on the unreasonable man.
Decency is Indecency’s Conspiracy of Silence.
Every man over forty is a scoundrel.
When we learn to sing that Britons never will
be masters we shall make an end of slavery.
Take care to get what you like, or you will be
forced to like what you get. Where there is no
ventilation fresh air is declared unwholesome.
Where there is no religion hypocrisy becomes good
taste. Where there is no knowledge ignorance
calls itself scierice.
Sentimentality is the error of supposing that
quarter can be given or taken in moral conflicts.
Self-sacrifice enables us to sacrifice other people
without blushing.
If you begin by sacrificing yourself to those you
love, you will end by hating those to whom you
have sacrificed yourself.
That is Shaw ’s last word.


m
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNB Y.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Aro by far the most successful Salesmen
OF*
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
ilwiim iuuiiu>■»*, a
Babbit and Opossum
m
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Wool Stores-FYRMONT.
Head Office and Produce Store—ll Phillip St.
SYDNEY,
Sole Wooi=Selling Commission
to the Growers—
1
Per Cent
Trust Account.
Regular Sales of Wool & Produce.
Prompt Returns.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
t
PATESON & COBCROFT,
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
and Produce Merchants. ——
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
THE LEADING HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
Leola.
•OSbi+ubq
t s
ei/Ui
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GOODS EXCHANGED or MONEY RETURNED.
O'
k*S
A/?/MANILA
No. i Manila.
opun N | 3
SOIIHDCHXOa
flwnw
& S
GUARANTEE.-EVERY CIGAR SOUND
AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
ROMA QUEENS ..
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke ..
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS ..
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
“ LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking ‘
“EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. de Mendoza) 100
Per 100.
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina) .. 100 29 0
HENRY OLAY (Havana Couchas, extra) 50 35 0
s. d.
19 2A
21 8
26 2
26 2
16 2 '
19 8
25 8
29 8,
36 Obox
Per 100.
REVOLUTION ”
M THE TOBACCO TRADE.
“ RED SEAL” TOBACCO
AT MILLION PRICES
TO SUIT THE TIMES.
“Red Seal”
Dark Plugr
Strong: & Medium
3/ per lb.
/ “ Post Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Cut
2oz. Packets
4/3
per lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Plug
Mild Smoking
36
per lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Cut
4oz. Patent Tins
4/0 per lb.
/« Post Fros
“RED SEAL,” is a REAL GOOD Smoking Tobacco, guaranteed BEST VALUE in the States.
Wc RECOnnEND Smokers to give “ RED SEAL” Tobacco a -rt>,Al -r
Miclt Simmons, Haymarket, Sydneyt
I. Hollis
& Son’s
N
\
“THE RELIABLE.”
Price £6 12s. 6d.
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top lever, bar action, real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross-bolt, left choke, rebounding locks snap fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powder.
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
A:
YOUR
l
1 *1
mHOUSANDS OF POUNDS have been wasted by People who are falsely led
I to believe that “Imitation Electric Belts” are as good as the one
made by Dr. McLaughlin. Quacks and Pretenders plagiarize our
advertisements, and imitate the appearance of “OUR BELT,” but it is impos-
sible for them to produce anything both in virtue and make to compare with
the “ Dr. McLaughlin Electric Beit.”
The successful cures effected by this wonderful appliance of ours has
induced a good many imitators to try their hand. Some try to sell you the
apparatus they have had made locally for a few shillings as an inducement to
try and sell you DrUgS- Others offer their appliances FREE.
So what Virtue can there be in these Articles?
They certainly wouldn’t want to give them to you if they possessed any goodness.
Every day we get many letters complaining that the writers have in
their possession what they were told was an Electric Belt “ Better Thin
McLaughlin’s,” which they got for a few shillings ; but it is not the loss of
that they mourn. It is the many pouhds they have wasted in addition for a
course of Drug Treatment and naturally they write and ask us if we sell
Drujs with Our Belt, as they recognise it is useless to try Electricity if they
are obliged to go through a course of Drug Treatment as well.
We toll Everyone that Drugs are Absolutely Useless l
a
is*
1
WLAUSm
mJS/CBfLh
AU& ** M*M *
f
COyO
r^t<oHf
ji/stivm /
&QW>t £
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
will cure, without the assistance of Drugs, all Nervous Disorders, Weak Back, Dyspepsia, Constipa-
tion, That Languid, Tired Feeling, Indigestion, Liver and Kidney Troubles, Varicocele, and
all ailments arising from a Nervous and Run-BoWn Constitution. It is Nature’s only Remedy. Elec-
tricity is as necessary to everyone as the food they eat. It is the essence of Life and Strength.
Thousands have been cured, and thousands are being cured to-day. Read this grateful testimony.
WEAK BACK and NERVE TROUBLES.
St. John’s Place, SYDNEY
Dear Sirs,—After wearing: your Belt for
three months my back is entirely cured ;
the Rheumatism has also entirely disap-
peared, and I have not felt the least pain
for the last five weeks, and I am quite
satisfied that no drugs could have done
for me what your Belt has done. I do all
I can to get others to try your Belt, as I
know the value of it.
Yours very truly, A. WRIGHT.
LAME BACK and INDIGESTION.
WYCHITELLA, S.A.
Dear Sirs,—With regard to the Eleotrio
Belt which I purchased from you, I have
much pleasure in telling you that 1 have
perfectly recovered. I wore the Belt for
three months regularly, and felt the
beneficial effects of it after the first
week.
I remain,
Yours respectfully,
D. MALONEY.
NERVOUSNESS
La Trobe Terrace,
CHILWELL, CEELONC, VIC.
Dear Sirs,—Please accept my very
sincere thanks for the relief the Belt has
given me. I have not used anything
except the Belt, and I must say that I have
not had the least pain since I have been
wearing it. Yours truly,
JAS. MORRISSEY.
Do not buy any kind of a Belt that cannot cure you without the aid of Drugs.
Free Book.
We will send you on application, to any
address, FREE, POST PAID, one of our beautiful
Illustrated Books. It is replete with all the latest
information about Electricity as a Curative Agent,
and shows what can be done by this Wonderful
Electric Belt of ours, also the cures effected. In
addition, it is full of engravings showing the
different positions of the Belt and attachments as
worn for various complaints. Everyone should
read it. Send for one to-day if you are ailing.
NOTICE.—If not living at a distance we
would be pleased for you to call and have a
FREE DIAGNOSIS of your Ailment made by our
Specialist, who will also show how the Belt is
worked and regulated to suit everyone.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEY
167 E. Swanston Street, Melbourne.
54 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.


PERDRIAU & CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 1881.
First Manufacturers of Rubier Good t in Australia.
Rubber Sheet, Rubber Valves, Rubber Buffers.
Armoured and Plain.
For Gardens. For Steam.
Any Sizes
or Thickness.
A Full Assortment of
all Best Makes.
Best Quality.
Any Size.
HOSE.
TUBING.
ENGINE PACKING.
RUBBER BELTING.
TITAN JOINTING.
For High-pressure delivery.
For Suction.
Of best Quality Rubber.
Will stand any Climate.
To hold
400 lbs. steam.
Won’t Slip.
Up to 36 in. wide,
For High
Pressure Steam.
Will make a tight and lasting joint on any surface and under any steam pressure.
Will stand any degree
of steam neat.
DUOGNG JOINTING.
The best Jointing' ever
made for Ammonia.
Rubber and Oil Waterproof Clothing,
Rubber Coats, Boots, Goloshes, Legations, Oilskin Coats, Jackets, Pants; in fact,
everything to keep out th« wet.
SURGICAL
Enemas.
Air and Water Cushions and Beds.
Fountain Syringes.
Hot Water Bags.
Operating Cushions.
Ice Caps. Atomizers.
RUBBER
GOODS
Rubber Gloves.
Elastic Web Goods.
Bandages, Stockings
Urinals.
Sc CO. 270 George St., Sydney.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free on Application.
R
DRINK-
PAD
UAK
From our Springs at Helldon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) &at Helidon.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Harry Mo rant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
V
By FRANK RENAR.
V !
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
RUPTURE
CAN BE CURED
Without
Operation,
Pain, Danger, Inconvenience, or Loss of Time. A genuine success. IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
The acme of comfort and a feeling of perfect confidence is secured from the first hour of using
Dr. Langston’s combined treatment. Write to-day for Treatise No. 12—posted 2 stamps—and
read the CONVINCING TESTIMONY received from all parts of Australia, from hundreds
of men who HAVE BEEN CURED. Used and endorsed by Clergymen, Statesmen, Lawyers,
Physicians, Farmers, Artisans, Navvies, Miners; in fact, men and women in every station of
life. These living witnesses support facts that leave no room for doubt.
VARICOCELE
CURED—No Cutting or Pain.
The stagnant blood is driven from the dilated veins, and all soreness and swelling subsides.
Men suffering from Weakened Nerve Force, Constant Depression, Gloomy Forebodings, Fast
Becoming Unfitted for Active Business Life, fail to attribute their deplorable state to the
PROPER CAUSE. They know they have VARICOCELE, as they have suffered some dis-
comfort on account of it, particularly while standing. But the evil effects due to
VARICOCELE are so gradual that they neglect it until the entire system is undermined, and
they are forced to realise that something must be done to prevent them from breaking down
completely. To such sufferers I say, Don’t fall into the hands of Quacks —don’t submit
to the knife—don’t pay enormous sums to so-called specialists for medicines, electric belts, etc.
My perfect, simple device will CURE YOU EASILY, Permanently, and Quickly, without
inconvenience or loss of time. Send for Treatise No. 15—posted 2 stamps,
Surgeon LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.
129 GoUins St., Melbourne; and at 177 Liverpool St., Sydney.
m
m
m
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
m
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physicuen’a
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic C out
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
w
PAY WHEN GU
m
We want everybody suffering from Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Dyspepsia, Varicocele, Nervousness, Weak Back,
Liver, Kidney or Stomach Troubles, or from any weaknesses
of vital organs, to try our Latest Improved High Grade
Belt, Free.
5,000 FREE !
We have just completed our Medical Treatise, “Electro
Neuro Therapy,” a copy of which we will send free, prepaid,
to all writing us. It is invaluable to every weak man and
woman. It is fully illustrated, and can be had for the asking.
A post card will do. Write for it to-day.
No Cure, No Pay.
We will cure you free if you will let us, and if we fail it
will cost you nothing. You can have our latest Improved
Belt on Trial Free. One does for eight persons. If you need
treatment write to us, and we will send you this splendid new
Belt. Free on trial. We want every weak man and woman
to write us to-day. Delay no longer, as we can cure you free.
The Dr.
4
J. n. Austin Electric Co.
ELIZABETH STREET HELBOURNE, VIC (
(Dept. M.)
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, ZLIID
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER RAILS.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
m
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT I
I
■
home cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d posted. Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners, illustrated. Is posted. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40
engravings,. Is. How to Dance,. Is ; post, Is 3d. How
to Wrestle, Is ;. post, Is 2d. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, Is 3d posted. Tailoring for
Amateurs,. Is; post, Is 2d. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s
each posted. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Cd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, is 3d. The Cuckold, is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is (id. Fowler’s Science of Life, 10s 6d
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Nat Gould’s
Sporting Novels, 2s edition for Is 9d, post paid, any
of them. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy's Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Horsf, and Cattle Doctor,
Is. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Letter
Writer Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Cabinet Making for, Amateurs,
illustrated, 3s 6d post. Resurrection, Bd. posted.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. fPT" Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappiio, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clou
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is. 3d. post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d.,
and Is. Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Ro-
mances, 2s. Ingersoll’s Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 6d. posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, ?s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. Gd. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1000 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
*
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
<*
EVERY Weak, Nervous, and Enfeebled Man or
Woman will find ELECTRICITY as supplied by our
Perfected and Patented ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELT
a wonderful restorative to robust health and vigor.
TEST IT, FREE OF CHARGE. We ask the readers of
this paper to remember that this offer is made by a firm
with twenty-five years’ reputation in Australia.
We desire that every sufferer should wear this mar-
vellous Belt and test its healing virtues for thirty days,
as we are certain that it will cure, and that the wearer
after the month’s trial will then prefer to keep rather
than return the Belt. Do not miss this opportunity to
regain your Health, for Health mean Wealth, Health
and Strength means Happiness in mind and body.
Enjoy a full measure of life by being strong and robust
to a vigorous old age.
Remember, we give a WRITTEN GUARANTEE with
each Electric Belt that it will permanently cure you. If
it does not we will promptly return the full amount paid.
Send for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free),
explaining our different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also TESTIMONY, which will convince the most sceptical
Address: Electric Appliance Company
DEPT. H.,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
m
G
IYEN
AWAY
To Advertise
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
The Bunch.
Post Free
3 Tips with Ospreys.
Black, Cream, or Black tipped with White.
A Marvel of Cheapness.
Write To-Day. Send Postal Note*
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bonrke & Swanston Sts.. Melbourne
[Mention Tub Bulletin.]
THE BULLETIN STOEY BOOK
Price, 4s. 6d.


A great many
people want .
long,
heavy
hair, but
how to
get it,
that is
4
wy.
-sSZ
what puzzles
them. The
fact is, the
hair needs a
little help
now and then.
The roots re-
quire feeding.
When the hair is starved, it stops
growing, loses its lustre, falls out,
turns gray. Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a
hair-help. It makes the hair grow,
stops it from falling, and completely
cures dandruff.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
If your hair is fading or turning
gray, begin at once with Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. It will positively restore color
to your gray hair, all the full, rich
color it had in early life.
As a hair-dressing you will certainly
like it, for it keeps the hair soft and
glossy and prevents it from splitting
at the ends.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor. .
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer* Co.. Lowell. Mass.. U.S.A.
Cockroaches!
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . ..
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
BOSISTO’S
“ Parrot Brand ”
Eucalyptus Oil
For Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds, Coughs, Colds and
Sore Throats.
CAUTION.—Ask for Bosisto’s
PARROT BRAND,
and Beware of Imitations.
"Til Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10e. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
Ths Result,
CRAIG 4. AITKEN. N.s -W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
Too Stout
I was for years; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
CNGINEMAN’S MASTER KEY.-All subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations :
&>• 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also COLE’S,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
The Permanent Trustee Go.
of N. S. Wales, Ltd.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
THE Sixteenth ORDINARY GENERAL
MEETING of the Members will be held in
the Royal Exchange on MONDAY, 19th
OCTOBER, 1903, at noon.
BUSINESS:
To receive Reports and Balance Sheet to 30th Sept., 1903.
To elect one Director in place of Lesley Herring, Esq.,
who retires (under clause 77 of the Articles of Associa-
tion) and who offers himself for re-election.
To elect two Auditors in place of W. Clarke and P.
Phillips, Esqres., who retire, but are eligible for and
seek re-election.
To consider any other business of which due notice shall
have been given in accordance with the Articles of
Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
BONNINGTONS
FOR
LUNGS
VOICE
THROAT
CARRAGEEN
IRISH.MOSS
n c?
2°
>x
OG»
1/ O'
H O
r> o
□ z
Z
P a
xd
"TARGE AND
SMAlff, BOTTLES
nmUAOV.
Commercial
Bugrgy,
£l4 100.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
tST Send for a
Catalogue.
mmm
Wont Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE tC
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £Blos.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
SMITH
H.F
*
21/-
21/-
YOU •
A Good Timekeeper
at a Reasonable Price.
HERE IT IS!!
A Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch
"Warranted 2 Years.
Posted Free to any part of
Australasia—
-21/-
Send/or my New Catalogue—FßEE
H. F. SMITH
Queensland Leading Jeweller, QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
IPBWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
WINCHESTER
MODEL 1902 SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE
2a
JHE name “ Winchester ” on this
rifle is a guarantee in itself of its
quality. The Model 1902 is a hammerless take-
down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly.
It is made with an 18-inch round barrel, fitted with open
front and peep rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22 Long
Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. Some makes of
.22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper, but they are a great
deal cheaper in quality than they are in price. We don’t
try to see how cheap we can make this rifle but how good.
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
Before purchasing WINCHESTER GOODS
Send for our Rifle Catalogue. Post Free.
PERRY BROS. - -
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagb Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold. City or. Suburban Properties,
irood Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C. P. and C.L.)or Government Stock of
ny of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.'
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by instalments)
without notice or payment of any fine.
HARRISON, JONES $ DEVLIN,
Wool Brokers,
Fat Stock Salesmen,
Stock # Station Agents.
Our Charge for selling
Wool of the New Clip
is reduced to
Per
Cent
Being a Consolidated Charge
includes Commission, Insurance
while in Store, Weighing, Cata-
loguing, &c., &c.
Auction Sales held on all advertised dates of Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, and all Station Produce.
Stores and Offices : Circular Quay, Sydney.
Various Versos.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We Three.
Dost thou love thy little maid ?
Love her well, love her true ?
Canst thou love her unafraid
Of the things the years may do ?
Canst thou this —tell me true ?
What dost thou resign for her ?
Hope of years, pride of place ?
Canst thou give without demur
All thy life for her sweet face ?
Canst thou this, and with grace ?
Much thy little maid must give,
Much indeed, loving thee;
But, so we two happy live,
What’s the loss to thee or me
Only gain, I can see.
Thou hadst lost thy freedom sure
Said she Aye, said she Nay ;
But our happiness will ’dure
Till ourselves are pasted away;
This I pray, night and day.
Dost thou love thy little maid
Tho’ she ohafe, tho’ she fret ?
Dearest one ! when she is laid
In the grass, wilt thou forget ?
Think her fair, love her yet ?
Nay, thou shalt not be downcast ;
She’s full glad ; she's full well;
Once the hour of pain is past,
Hearts cannot their gladness telL.
Kiss thy maid ; all is well.
Ah, yes; kiss me with a smile,
As of old —long ago.
We have spent a happy while
In the vale where hot tears flow:
We knew none, none we know.
Dost thou love thy little maid
As of old ? Dear old days !
She will suffer unafraid
As her mother-debt she pays ;
Ah, those sweet, future days 1
Kiss me now for what has been ;
What we two found and knew.
Kiss me for the pleasures keen
All the years can not undo—
Kiss its face —me and you.
M.L.
AHAU.
Unworthy.
There’s a shrine on the hill that no hands have
builded,
And thither I go when the West is red,
When the grey boles gleam and their crowns are
gilded,
And a soft light falls on the veiled hill head.
Love built the shrine where the leaf shades falter
And fall, and fold her a sanctuary ;
And the old black log was a mystic altar
Where we plighted our faith for Eternity.
Love of my life, when our pathways parted,
I promised a strength that would make no moan ;
But here, where we rested, I kneel sad-hearted,
By the old black log in the dusk alone.
I could hunger through days that are sharp with
yearning
For the sake of lost lights in the years we knew,
I could thirst thro’ sad nights and siok seasons
turning,
If Time had written no change in you.
If your heart was true to the high white standax-d
You lifted aloft to my world-worn eyes,
I could cherish your name tho’ the whole world
slandered
With truth unfamiliar and shameless lies.
Somewhere, perhaps, in the seasons sleeping
I shall look backward with heart resigned ;
But, oh ! for the lights that are past our keeping,
Or, oh ! for the faith that is always blind.
From the star-lit stillness grey ghosts are calling,
Of hopes that were bright in the seasons flown,
And I kneel in despair when the night is falling,
By the old black log in the dusk alone.
I'AS.
ERHAMI.
Satiety.
When another passing fancy has been added to
the number
Of forgotten loves and kisses, dearest for their
little while,
When the girl loves true as ever, but her kisses
merely cumber
Loveless wastes of heart indifferent, eager for
some fresher smile ;
When you know you ought to tell her, bet you
cannot somehow fashion
Words to slay her love, and alter happy dreams
to grieving sighs—
How the sting of self-repugnance haunts the
quick tinge of compassion,
When you kiss her lips in pity for the lovelight in
her eyes.
Dante pictures an Inferno where the lost must toil,
unruly,
Sinning, surfeited and loathing, sins that damned
them on this sphere,
And I ween the souls of spoilers who loved all,
but none too truly,
Must kiss ever lips grown hateful that they wooed
in lightness here.
Loving seals and warm embraces (hot-desired,
until attainment
Made them shackles on the heart that must for
ever restless rove)
Are as chains that chafe, but bind not, roving
love that mocks restrainment,
When we quaff the lees of kisses from the lips
we’ve ceased to love.
VIO.
J. M'CLELLAND.


A NOVEL PRESENT.^-
f\N rtceipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 6/- we will forward to
" any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-Ailed Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
m
“ acts uke a charm.”
JONES 1
Kheumaticuro
The great South African Rem. Jy
NEVER FAILS TO CURB
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
28. ed. PER BOTTLE
SOLE PROPRIETORS —
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
EVERY WOMAN
m
is interested and should know
about the wojj<Jerful
The new EEMALt SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. * Endorsed by Physicians.
Timei Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUStRALASIAN AGENTS—
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 Qeorge St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Writ* lor Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
WEBSTER’S
* CARBOLIC
Dentifrice
HAS MANY FINE POINTS.
► FOR QUALITY, FLAVOR AND PRICE
HAS NO EQUAL
' Sold all over Australia.
. LARGE TINS, 6d.
INSIST ON GETTING IT.
ASTHMACURE
GRIMAUUS INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION In breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY In EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
OWMAVI.T St Co,, Paris. Sold by ail Chemists.
use ANTHOS AND PREVENT BALDNESS
Discoverer—Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., F.R.G.S., M.B.Ph.S., L. lecturer to
Medical Students in Botany at Cambridge University.
A SAFE AND EFECTIVE HAIR DRESSING.
Used by the aristocracy of Australia. It Cleanses and Refreshes the Scalp, Feeds the Hair, and
PREVENTS HAIR FROM FALLING OUT.
An eminent M.D. (Melbourne University! writes “After observing closely the use of 'AnthOß,' I
am convinced that it promotes the growth of the Hair."
Price, 2/6; posted, 3/3.
Hordern's, Foy's, Pattinson’s, Lasseter’s, Grace Bros. Depots - Horwitz, Pitt Street, and
Elliott Bros. Ltd. Chief Depot— F. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Skin-Tortured Babies
AND TIRED MOTHERS
Find Comfort in Cuticura
Instant Relief and refreshing sleep for Skin-tortured Babies and
rest for Tired Mothers in warm baths with Cuticura Soap, and
gentle anointings with Cuticura Ointment, the great skin cure and
purest of emollients, to be followed in severe cases by mild doses of
Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the blood.. This is
the purest, sweetest, most speedy, permanent, and economical treat-
ment for torturing, disfiguring, itching, burning, bleeding, scaly,
crusted, and pimply humours, eczemas, rashes, irritations, and
itchings, with loss of hair, of infants and children, yet compounded.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautifying
the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and tie
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspira-
tion, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative,
antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. No oth
-medicated soap ever compounded is to be compared with it for preserving,
purifying, and beautifying the skin, scalp, hair, and hands. No other
foreign or domestic toilet soap, however expensive, is to be compared with
it for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Thus it combi es
in One Soap at One Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the
best toilet and best baby soap in the world.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
Cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Town's & Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 6 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Pottbb Dbuo AltD Cheu
COBr. t Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO COMPJEJTITIOJM,
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS. &o.
Kent Breweryj SYDNEY,
WILL ANDRADE’S » » ROOKS
m
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Astrology,
6d. How to Dance, Is ;
post Is 3d. Howto Wrestle,
9d &ls 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Tailoring for
Amateurs, Is. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up;TO-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Mystic Oracle,
6d. Phrenology Made Easy, 6d. House Painting
and Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d ; post, Is 6d.
My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Georgette,
Is; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Sighs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Big Value Premium Budget, 6d.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is ; post Is 3d. Piano
Tuning and Repairing, Is 3d; post Is 6d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d; post Is 6d.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; posted Is
2d. Australian Doctor, cures for all diseases,
Is 3d; post Is 6d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Self Instructor :
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, Is. Cabinet
Maker’s Handybook, Is 6d. Cabinet Making for
Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d; post, 4s.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is 6d. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/8.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d;
post, 2s lOd. Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made
Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is 6d.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court op
England, Is 3d, post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, F'uturity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2 : Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS.
P| A|D’Q
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
PllilaS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medioine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout i Co., 220,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. yd. and 2s. 9d.
por box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Hypnotism
<9
4
Reader, why not ho Ohio to use the
moit myeterieu* wid powerful force of
nature? By my mothod you cau learn
to Hypnotize in a few houre time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are poeeihle to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothin* to find out all about it. I hay#
lu*t issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESBON or Key t 6
Hypnotism, which fully explains
tho mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic en*ravin*g, and is tho most olaborato
and expensive thin* of tho kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed oa
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotise. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
mm
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN, <. ,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
m
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. read,
Collins street, Melbourne.
1
Vegetable
THE ROAD
TO HEAITB 15.
PAVED WITP
'■ GOOD
DIGBSTION.
Charcoal
Speedily auras Aridity. Flatulenee, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, As. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all banali-
ties in the itpmaob and bowels,gives a healthy tana
to t>e whole system. Wards 08 all attaok* at Typhoid
and ether Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BJRAOG'B POKE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZHNOBS and BISCUITS in Tins
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin Dears
the Trade Hark ‘J.L.B., in monogram,' on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T\EAR SIR, — I have been cured of weakness and Da-
- L ' bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. 1
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHUR6T,
Pitt street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
m
mm
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frit, IS
Ths Lite, Adventures
and Confesisions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, to.
tend stamp for Illustrated List* */ Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
LARGEST SALE OP ANY DENTIFRICE.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC (
Tooth Powder.
A unique and efficacious preparation for
cleansing the teeth and strengthening the gums.
F. C. CALVERT t Co,, Mincbester, Eng.


Wasted Vitality.
Totally Incapacitated.
“A Cheerful Mind and a Vigorous Body."
The Case of Mr. C. W. HACK.
(FOR THE “TIMES.”)
With the view of obtaining some idea as
to his opinions on the general trend of events
in which he was once the principal party
concerned, Mr. Charles William Hack, of
23 Eveleigh-street, Redfern, courteously
granted an interview to our representative.
The Reporter: “If you will carry your
memory back to three years ago I would
like you to tell me exactly how you stood
from a physical standpoint. ”
Mr. Hack : “If it will render a service
to anybody else, I will tell you with plea-
sure, although the subject recalls such a
wretched period of my existence that I
would like to forget it altogether. My
trade is a carpenter, and I am glad to say
that I could always get plenty of work ; but
three years back I was so thoroughly run
down that I could not do it. I had been
in an indifferent state of health for
some months previously, being generally
‘out of sorts,’ as people term it, and
I thought I had caught a chill and re-
quired a rest. On the Monday morning
I felt so fatigued that I dropped a note
to my employer, stating that I was not
well, and that I hoped to be able to go to
work at the commencement of the following
week, but when the time came do you think
I was able ? No. I had less energy then
than ever. If I thought about my work
it distressed me, for I knew that my
vitality had wasted away to such an extent
that I was powerless to perform it. My
condition fluctuated a little, as some days I
fancied I was slightly better, and that I
would start next Monday, but when the
lay came I could not get up steam. Occa-
lionally I did a little about the house,
»nd then I was so prostrated with ex-
haustion that I had to go to bed for three
or four days. This went on for three
months, by which time you may be sure I
was very downhearted.”
Reporter : “ Were you away from work
all that time ? ”
Mr. Hack : “ Every day of it, and if
everything did not go straight I became
exceedingly irritable. The least thing ex-
cited me, and as I could do nothing but
brood over the helplessness of my condi-
tion the unhappiness of my life can be
easily understood. I resorted to medicines,
but what good were they to me ? None at
al l . First one kind and then another I tried,
till I gave them up in despair. I then
visited a hospital, but the medicines dis-
pensed to me from that institution were
of no more assistance than if I had never
seen them. Those disappointments made
me more low spirited than ever, and at
last my mind was harassed by the awful
conviction that I would never get strong
again. My body was drained of all its
vital force, and there were no means of
replenishing it, because the medicines did
not help me, and my appetite had turned
traitor altogether. Some days I fancied
I could relish something nice, but when I
got it I could not eat. At other meal 3 I
was more successful in taking a little food,
but when it was down then the misery
began. My stomach filled with wind and
made me very uncomfortable, while the
feeling of heaviness in my chest was almost
unbearable. The shoulders were also the I
seat of much trouble, as between them I
there came a pain which was very dis-
agreeable ; and as for aches—well, those
Vross the small of my back were so acute
hat they depressed me with their intensity.
Eafewas getting more bitter and more un-
desirable every day, as up to that time I
used to keep a diary and take great
interest in most matters, but now all happi-
ness was gone, and I could not apply my
mind to anything. My head ached to dis-
traction, so no wonder I was suffering
from loss of memory. There was a dull, j
misty feeling about my eyes as if they had I
swollen, but, rightly or wrongly, I put that
down to having so many sleepless nights.
The coating on my tongue and the bitter
taste in my mouth were most disagreeable,
though perhaps not such a serious matter
as having my nervous system in such a
shattered condition. Noises set my nerves
shaking at once, while even the conversa-
tion of people was annoying, so I had no
desire to mix in company. My brain was
so unsettled that one minute I would make
up my mind to do a thing and the next
minute I could see no necessity for it ;
but, losing weight and strength so rapidly,
caused more anxiety than anything else,
especially as nothing could check my infir-
mities."
Reporter : “ But you are not an invalid
now ? ”
Mr. Hack: “Thank Heaven, lam not !
I am also grateful to Clements Tonic, for ib
was the only medicine which restored my
lost energy. I was anxious to get better,
and did not care what I tried, but I can
safely say that Clements Tonic did me an
immense amount of good from the start.
Its invigorating effects shed a brightness
over my gloomy surroundings, and gave me
hope when everything seemed lost. From the
first couple of bottles of Clements Tonic my
appetite improved greatly, and what pleased
me more still was to observe that the same
medicine was putting my digestive organs
in good working order. Before taking
Clements Tonic I remember one morning in
particular getting up as usual, and shortly
afterwards I fell senseless on the floor
through experiencing violent and over-
powering pains in the stomach ; but a few
weeks’ use of Clements Tonic drove all
pains and flatulence away, and about my
chest and shoulders the freedom from tor-
ture was equally marked. So distinctly
did Clements Tonic strengthen my worn-out
system that I felt its beneficial influence
with each dose, my nerves in the meantime
getting as steady and true as they had ever
been. To know that I was no longer a
slave to an incurable complaint was a fact
which Clements Tonic alone could set at
rest, for my headaches and backaches simply
drifted away, and in course of time there
was not an ache in any part of me.”
Reporter: “ Were you sleeping better,
too ? ”
Mr. Hack: “ That was one of the prin-
cipal features of Clements Tonic. It made
me sleep splendidly, and its toning effect on
my brain was so grand that I did not
dream at nights, and I have not since been
inconvenienced with a bad memory. The
flesh I had lost was regained, and nobody
could have been more thankful than I was
at again being able to go back to work with
the cheerful mind and vigorous body which
nothing but Clements Tonic could restore.”
“ Reporter: “Can your statements appear
in the press ? ”
Mr. Hack: “You can publish them as
you please, because Clements Tonic made a
thoroughly healthy man of me, and to all
delicate people its true worth should be
made known.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Charles William Hack, of 23 Eveleigh-street,
Redfern, in the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare
that I have carefully read the annexed document,
consisting of four folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to four, and that it contains and is a true
and faithful account of my illness and cure by
Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements which I
give voluntarily, without receiving any payment;
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the tame to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and. declared at Redfern, this twelfth
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two
before me, ’
T. D. P. HOLDEN, J.p.
S. FREEMAN # SONS [JMITEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO'S BAKING POWDER,
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDHEY.
HEAD OFFICE
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
PRICE, 4s. 6d.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS.
From all Booksellers, or the Publishers,
The Bulletin Neivspaper Co., Ltd., 214 Georye-st., Sydney, Australia.
FOR THE BUSH WOHKES
am
Bute
m
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM - BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JJOTICE TO MffiXBOURNEJ VISITORS^
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
01arendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
'ZfoY&ttii&t Itisklk
- - * c 7 'i
*%)
TRY
&7U'
FOOD
fief use a/7/m/Fctf/dn&
Sahs/yVng, Sfrengfhening. Soothing forlnftffits
Agreeable. Digestible, Nourishing
AGim FDA SYb/V£Y.
SAYfPS AUPOfir & POT7TA.
RIDGE'S POOD MULS. LONDON.£«c.
DEBILITATED
WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
W trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
■within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars fres.
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Enjr..
129 Collins-st., Me bourne.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
SYDNEY.
XJSE! i i
SPOONER’S
mmm
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL. CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEV PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PER made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
K3T BEWARE OP IMITATIONS. ~ms
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
Wore a Torture
BELT.
SUFFERED TERRIBLE AGONY.
From wearing an Electric Belt
charged by the use of
SULPHURIC nein.
Mr. W. Folley, Alfred Woollen Mills,
Williamstown, Vic., writing to the Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt Co., tells how he
was scarred and burned by the use of a
Free He It, which he had erroneously
been led to believe was as good as theirs.
He paid £4 for the Free Belt because
he had been convinced that by paying
this cash price he was obtaining a similar
appliance to Dr. McLaughlin’s Famous
rejuvenator which has gained Worxd
Wide fame as a Curative Agent. It goes
to show how misleading are advertise-
ments which seem to offer something for
nothing.
Gentlemen—ln answer to your kind in-
quiries after my health, I beg to state that
I have been completely cured of the Scia-
tica that has troubled me for years. I
cannot thank you enough for your gentle-
manly treatment and fair dealing with your
patients, as I know from others that their
treatment has been the same as mine.
I may just as well let you know my ex-
perience in seeking a cure for my trouble
before I purchased one of your High Grade
Belts. I had been under doctors and re-
ceived scant relief; and also tried various
quacks, but it was all the same. I then
placed myself in the hands of a Specialist
(in Melbourne) guaranteed to cure Rheu-
matism and Sciatica, but received very
small benefit from the treatment. I then
had my attention drawn to Electricity.
Well, I thought, “ Never venture, never
win,” so I PROCURED first of all a Belt
for £x and was very much disappointed
because I was informed that it was neces-
sary to take a long and exceedingly ex-
pensive course of drug treatment. I would
not do this and then I wrote for, and ob-
tained a so-called Free Belt, with a
most “ Wonderful Pedigree,” at a cost of
£4. I wore the Belt according to the in-
structions given faithfully for a period of
five weeks, and by that time I was Burnt
and Blistered so badly that I could not
wear it longer, and still no relief was
gained, although the Belt was guaranteed
to Cure Anything in Sciatica in One
Month. You bet I was very much dis-
couraged in regard to Electric Belts.
However, I was persuaded to come and
just see you, gentlemen. I then found
that I had been wearing a Torture Belt
and very Wrongly Applied, and quite
enough to give and patient a Horror of
so-called Electric Belts. After the con-
sultation I decided to place myself in your
hands. I knew my case was very diffi-
cult, as I was compelled to follow my em-
ployment, and standing at the vice was
irksome, and the complaint was a very
stubborn one. However, gentlemen, your
Belt, coupled with your advice, has made
me a grateful patient. I thank you kindly
for supplying me with a remedy which has
Completely Cured Me, and strongly recom-
mend it to all and sundry that I find are
suffering from the distressing malady
called “ Sciatica.”
I have not been wearing the Belt for the
past fortnight, but have passed it over to
my wife, who has received great benefit
for nervous troubles.
I remain, your grateful patient,
W. FOLLEY
GENUINE BELTS give GENUINE RELIEF.
Send to THE DR. MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
LOOW. Market-st., Sydney ; 167 J Swanston-st., Melbourne
54 Willis-st., Wellington, N.Z.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
TRUMAN'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. A Is. 6d. ' v
N.B.*—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrb A Truman,
71 Old Kent Hoad, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


BRUIT.
Insist
Upon
Having:
It.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
Castro’s Cast Sacrament
JM Other Stories,
BY ALBERT DORRINGTON.
“ The Most Brilliant Short Stories Produced in
Australia
A CONSENSUS OF CRITICAL OPINION.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
"He has been everywhere and seen every-
thing, and he has to no ordinary extent the
power of .presenting things as they seemed to
him—the gift of vivid and powerful narration.
. . . . Contains dramatic pictures which the
best of our artists in words might well envy.”—
Sydney Moi ning Herald.
“The stories are often filled with incidents
that startle the reader, and emotions whose very
strength makes him shiver. . . . Mr. Dorring-
ton’s warrant as a writer of short stories is that
of absolute genius.”— Sydney Daily Telegraph.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
2X4 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding.
FM! a
111
I
THE
The Allenburys Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers.
Farinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
The “Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot
climates. They are In the form of powder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on “ INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pages) free, from
495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
IHILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. f?.
From six months and upward;..
The Pleasure
of smoking is enhanced by the pleasure of being able to offer something you know is good to your
friend—something you have no possible doubt he or she will appreciate—and so you keep
“CAMEO” CIGARETTES
and give happiness to others as well as yourself.
“All who Joy would win, must share it—
Happiness was born a twin.”
WOOD
PRESERVING
OIL
AVENARIUS!
WHITE
ANT
COMPOUND
If you have
a Jibbing
HORSE,
Try It on
its
MANGER.
Avenarius enters particularly and with avidity
into the sappy parts of wood, rendering
such perfectly hard, thus converting what may
be called a weak part into one of the strongest
parts of timber.
It is an excellent and efficient remedy against
house fungi, and therefore especially recom-
mended for all wood work in Buildings, &c„ in
damp situations and damp climates.
Avenarius fulfils all the conditions of an
efficient preservative of wood against
all external and internal injurious influences.
By its own action, without any pressure being
applied, it penetrates into the wood,
drives out the moisture, makes it im-
pervious to damp, and thus protects the wood
from decay. It does not stop up the pores of
wood, therefore does not oause dry rot.
Fullest Particulars from
Spread It on
your
FOWL-HOUSE,
and so
get rid of
CHICKEN LICE
Sole Agents for
Australasia:
E. RISH & e©., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
WHITE ANT’S
HEAD.
J
r i
Head of a Worker, largely magnified.
Made of a Steel
A perfect Pulley for all purposes.
SAFE! SIMPLE! SURE!
“ Let go the rope, the lever does
the rest.”
THE BURR LIFT
A perfect Pulley for all purposes.
AUTOMATIC!
ADJUSTABLE! ABSOLUTE!
Blythe Dale Station, Wallumbilla.
Messrs. G. High A Co., Ltd.
Brisbane.
Dear Sirs,—Herewith please find cheque
for £1 Bs. 9d , in payment for the Burr Lift
sent me. The lift answers the work I want
it for, (namely, lifting bogged cattle out of
creeks) capitally. It is the best I have seen
and I thjtnk you for your kind attention.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) A. S. 11ACLELLAN.
No. 2. For J-in. rope. Weight, 22 oz. Capacity, 250 lbs. 6/9
No. 3. For f-in. rope. Weight, 4Jibs. Capacity, 300 lbs. 10/3
No. 4. For |-in. rope. Weight, 61 lbs. Capacity, 3501b5. 18/9
No. 5. For f-in. rope. Weight, 11 lbs. Capacity, 400 lbs. 23/9
No. 6. For f-in. rope. Weight, I7lbs. Capacity, 4501b5. 28/9
No. 4J. For|-in. rope. Weight, 10 lbs. Capacity, 600 lbs. 33/6
No. 6|. For f-in. rope. Weight, 20 lbs. Capacity, 700 lbs. 40/-
No. 6£. For |-in. rope. Weight, 28 lbs. Capacity, 850 lbs. 47/6
The above Prices and Weights include lower block, no rope.
Orange, 4th January, 1903.
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney.
Dear Sire,—At the request ot our Mr.
Bernaseoni, we are pleased to inform you
that he as well as ourselves are greatly im-
pressed with the Burr Lilt, so much so that
we intend to put one in use in our produce
•tore for the purpose of stacking grain, etc.
Yours faithfully,
DALTON BROTHERS.
Sole Agents for
Australasia:
Fullest Particulars from
E. RICH & 60., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
MADE OF A STEEL


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.-No. 1235.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1003.
Pbiok 6d.
RUNNING THE GAUNTLET.—THE FEDERAL CANDIDATE’S SPRINT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the Australians. ,>
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
r>y sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tuif Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
lobe addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the "Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales oi Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, $OOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable'), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Rut we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mateurs in Hindi and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
anil interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., anypicture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Qotch, Ludjate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson. llout St., Capetown ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street , Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency ,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon .—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
llong Kong.—Brewer and Co., 82 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1903.
The Federal Capital.
When it is said on behalt of the Tumut site for
the Federal capital that it includes the parish
ot Gadara, and would, in the event oi the national
Legislature meeting there, give Opposition papers
an obvious cue tc speak oi Gadarene swine rush-
ing down a steep place tc destruction, and when
it is mentioned that it is in Bill Lyne’s electorate,
the list of its special qualifications has been
exhausted. It has otliei good qualities, which it
shares with othei towns—ample watei supply and
drainage facilities, a fairly healthy it somewhat
warm climate, a good soil, and a plentiful
rainfall. But there are many reasons why
it fails to fulfill the conditions necessary tor
the founding of a Federal state and a Federal
city. The area that can be acquired without
incurring huge expense is small. It would be a
t emendously expensive business to repurchase
the rich maize flats on the rivers and the
various towns and villages, such as Gun-
digai, Adelong, Mingary, and Tumut itself.
The Tumut locality has on all sides a thickly-
clustering population of private landowners to
whom would fall the greater portion of the
benefit created by the public effort in con-
structing the capital. The necessary restriction
of the area, unless several large townships
are to be included in the resumption, and
the consequent obligation to enrich private
landowners, instead of the Commonwealth, by
the public expenditure on the capital, is one of
the chief reasons why Tumut is unsuitable as a
site. Another serious disadvantage is that Tumut
lias neither a coal supply of its own, nor the possi-
bility of getting its coal brought to it by cheap
water carriage, nor the facilities for generating
electricity by water power. It could hardly become
a manufacturing city. Its resources are purely
pastoral and agricultural, and at no time would it
be possible, consistently with economy, to establish
there the Federal arsenals, small arms factories or
other industrial enterprises which will in time fall
within the scope of the Federal Government.
Presuming that some day an Australian navy,
with the necessary concomitants of docks, ship-
yards and wharves, will be established, Tumut
would have then to be supplemented by another
Federal settlement on the seaboard of the Com-
monwealth. Even an Owe’Sullivan would hardly
suggest to make Tumut a seaport, being, as it is,
s 'tne 100 or 80 tri’.es from the coast, and 2000 ft.
above sea level. v Ji’liere are other objections to
Tumut as a Federal territory—its climate, which is
a maize growing climate (the Federal State should
have an apple-growing climate, as sturdy civilisa-
t ions don’t grow side by side with maize); and the
f.’-ct that it would probably be surrounded on all
sides by N.S.W., an 1 would, as regards- railway
communication, be at the mercy of one State
in a time of trouble. On the other side there
is really nothing to be urged of any great
weight as a reason for preferring it to a dozen
other stretches of country in various parts of New
South Wales, except the opportunity it offers for
the Gadarene simile and the fact that it is in Bill
Lyne’s electorate ; and these are hardly sufficient
reasons on which to choose a Federal capital.
* * » »
The Tumut site was chosen by the House of
Representatives on a vote in which parochial and
not national considerations held sway. The
Queensland members were anxious to have a site
as near to home as possible, and in as warm a
place as possible. The Victorian members were
anxious, in some cases, to block any site at
all; in others to secure a site as near to
Melbourne as possible. Finding that Albury had
no chance, and that N.S.W. parochialism was
resolute against Bombala, because it had a port
of its own and wouldn’t depend on Sydney for its
sea-outlet, they compromised on Tumut rather
than that Lyndhurst, which was above all others
the “ Sydney site,” should be chosen. The
N.S.W. members, with an indecently obvious
intention of making the choice of the capital site a
Sydney and notan Australian matter, fought hard
for Lyndhurst, which has direct rail communica-
tion with Sydney but with no other of the great
capitals, and were prepared to compromise only
on Tumut, which is halfway between Sydney and
Melbourne. The South Australian, Tasmanian
and Westralian members were in many cases
dragged in the wake of the various sectarians.
Yet withal, Bombala secured the largest vote in
the first ballot—the only ballot which showed the
real preferences of members. The result of that
vote was
Bombala 16, Lyndhurst 14, Tumut 14, Albury 7,
Armidale 6, Lake George 2, Orange 2, Dalgety and
Bathurst 0.
Then the manipulation began. The N.S.W. and
Queensland party, finding various northern
N.S.W. places hopelessly out of it, transferred
their suffrages to Lyndhurst, and the second
ballot resulted :
Lyndhurst 21, Bombala 16, Tumut 14, Albury 6,
Armidale 3, Lake George 1, Orange 1.
In subsequent ballots, the whole of the N.S.W.
influence was concentrated on Lyndhurst, whilst
the Victorian vote went to Tumut when Albury
became hopeless. Bombala, going solely on its
merits, as before, kept its 16 faithful supporters—
members who took the national view of the issue.
Finally, Bombala was struck out, and the contest
left to Lyndhurst and Tumut, and the latter site
won by 36 votes to 25. Of those 36, only 14
actually believed that Tumut was the best site ;
the other 22 were prepared to compromise on it,
since they could not get another locality. A site
is chosen, therefore, by the House of Representa-
tives which 47 of them don’t believe to be the
best. This absurd conclusion was arrived at in-
evitably, as the issue was decided by sectional
manoeuvring and intrigue. ’ If members had
brought a national, and not a parochial and dis-
honest, sentiment to the decision, there would have
been indicated in the first ballot an overwhelming
preponderance in favor of one or two sites. But
the battle was mainly a sordid contest, in which
each one was for his parish and none for the Com-
monwealth.
* * * *
Fortunately the decision is not final. There is
still possible an appeal to the Senate, which body,
at the time of writing, had not discussed the Bill
in which the House of Representatives named
Tumut as its choice. There is reason to hope from
the Senate a national and not a parochial decision.
Its members, from their very mode of election, are
less amenable to parish pump arguments in
politics. The parish pump should have, no place
in any. Australian legislator’s mind, but the Repre-
sentatives have, through the pernicious effects of
custom in State politics, and from the tact that
their Federal electorates are made up of small
groups of State constituencies, become infected,
to some extent, with the paltry spirit or the
“good local member,” and many of them crawl
tremblingly m fear of the Sydney influence, and
the Melbourne influence, and the drapers’ vote,
and the wrath of Adaminaby or Boppy Moun-
tain, and such like. The Senate is fully justi-
fied in differing from the House of Representa-
tives in the matter, more especially in view of the
devices by which that House came to an ignoble
agreement, and any delay which such difference
may cause will be an altogether unimportant
circumstance compared with the evil of a wrong
decision in this, the one almost irrevocable step
which Parliament has to take. In nearly every
other matter a mistake can be rectified. But the
capital site once chosen is chosen for ever, or for a
very long time. The Senate, if it holds that the
Eden-Bombala site is the only one which fulfils all
national requirements, should amend the Site Bill;
should stand by its amendment until the paroehial-
ists —who are eager for a capital in the wrong place,
but still more eager foi a capital somewhere away
from Melbourne—choose to give way. That would
not be for long.
*• * * *
The reasons why the Eden-Bombala district is
the only possible site tor a Federal territory have
been so often set forth by The Bulletin that to
repeat them at this stage is not necessary. But
the summary of conclusions in favor of that site
come to by Mr. Oliver (President of the N.S.W.
Land Court and special commissioner from
N.S.W. to investigate the federal capital sites
question) may well be quoted again :
(1) A Federal narooi in Twofold Bay. This means
access by sea for passengers and goods from all States of
the Australian Union by the Commonwealth’s own port.
At a cost now calculated by the Hydrographic officer oi
the Public Works Department at £150,000 for a break-
water hall a mile in length, and two jetties to cost
3031,000 each, this harbor will be as secure an anchorage
as Port Jackson. In the future it will be capable of being
an effective naval base.
(2) Federal railways from the Port of Twofold Bay to
the Capital, and from the Capital to Cooma. These
would be federally owned and worked, and thus all fric-
tion with State-owned railways would be avoided.
(3) These Federal railways, and many other industries,
can be worked by electricity generated at favorable
points on the Snowy River.
(4) Unlimited expansion of area at a reasonable cost.
(5) The Australian Union will be richer by the rapid
development of a district which now resembles Orange
fifty years ago, when it was known as Blackman’s Swamp,
and the road to Wellington, Molong, and the West; but
will be like the district of Orange as it is now, if the
Federal Capital is located somewhere in the basin of the
Snowy River.
(6) Two climates -one of the highland downs, tne other
of a seaside bathing resort—each within three hours'
reach by rail of the other.
(7) No existing town of any importance would be drawn
within the coils of the Federal city, and, in the course of
a few years of hopeless struggling, strangled—because
there are no such towns in the district.
Those are the reasons set forth by the N.S.W.
special commissioner, acting on behalf ot the
N.S.W. Government, for the choice oi Eden-
Bombahi. One of the most notable is that it is
almost the only place in Australia where a great
manufacturing city is possible without coal (elec-
tricity generated by water power is a vast amount
cheaper than coal). Notone of the reasons ad-
vanced can be stigmatised as a result of a jealousy
of Sydney or of a “ Melbourne conspiracy.” Mr.
Oliver is a Sydney citizen and a servant of the
State ot N.S.W. Yet it w'as mainly by the
jerrymandering of N.S.W., or rather of Sydney
members, that the Bombala site was defeated.
The great arguments that twopence or so worth
of calico trade would be diverted from Sydney ;
that the policy of centralising everything in the
metropolis, which has done so much to strangle
progress in N.S.W., would be checked; that the
Sydney draper organs would be embittered —
sufficed with these gentlemen to make them
forget all the national interests entrusted to their
guardianship. A Benedict Arnold might ba
more easily recognisable as a traitor than these
men, who would huckster away a great part of
their nation’s future for a hand at the hustings or
a puff in an unpatriotic newspaper. But essenti-
ally there is little difference in the two types.
* * * *
Still, the Senate stands between Australia and
an irretrievable blunder. The circumstances are
such that, if the Senate takes up a firm stand, the
parochialists will have to give way. Their insane
jealousy of Melbourne—which is matched by the
insane jealousy of Sydney shown by sundry Vic-
torians —will force them to any step which will
take the capital away from the shores of Port
Phillip. Firmness may mean the delay of a
month or two in the choice ; it should not do so
if Premier Dkakin recognises his clear duty to
keep the Houses in session until a final decision is
come to. But even a much longer delay is better
than a wrong choice.
Irvine’s Deficit.
loebeeg Irvine’s Victorian budget (Irvine is his
own Treasurer now) is a very “cool, calm” con-
concern. _ It is a collection of badly-crushed dis-
honest pieces of ice, heaped up in a dull, cold sort
of way. The clear strong mind with which his
Tory heelers credit Irvine missed fire shockingly
this time. His budget will be remembered by all
who listened to him as by far and away the most
confused and inconclusive effort of its kind in
Victoria. Shtels, with all his windiness, and
Peacock with all his gabble, were marvels of
lucidity compared with the “cool, calm, clear-
minded ” Irvine. In a lordly way, Irvine gives
his Government great kudos for having turned
the alleged threatened deficit of £1,000,000, which
existed in Shiels’ imagination, into a surplus for
the year 1902-3 of £194,000, which doesn’t exist at
all. If the threatened deficit ever had any reality
about it, and if it had been covered in a legitimate
manner, the Government would have deserved
some of the exalted praise which Irvine poured
upon himself, but neither of these conditions is
present. Figures are twisted to make the alleged
deficit larger, and the means adopted to cover it
and £194,000 in addition are thoroughly dishonest.
Charities, old age pensioners and public servants
were flagrantly robbed, and trust funds were
burgled in order, as it turns out, to throw a
surplus of £194,000 into this year’s finance. Irvine
grew quite angry with his critics for saying that
his Government had “ rooked ” the trust funds,
in which respect he was very like many other
individuals when caught red-handed. Even
according to his own showing, £238,000 of the
money that went to square the finances for 1902-3
was obtained from trust funds, only Irvine
denies that the Railway Accident Fund, the
Railway Stores Suspense Account, and the Mallee
Land Fund (specifically set apart to redeem loans)
are trust funds. It matters not to Irvine that
the laws under which those funds were created
state plainly that they are trust funds ; he
simply says that they aren’t. Since taking
office'. Irvine has been so busily engaged
breaking the laws of the country that his
attitude on this point is at least consistent.
And more breakages are in prospect. The Vic-
torian law says that ail surpluses must be set aside
towards reducing the great accumulated deficit,
and the utterly lawless Irvine Government
announces that it is going to airily disregard this.
It is going to treat last year's surplus, made out
of trust funds, as part of this year’s revenue. By
its own showing it took out of the trust funds
and the sinking funds £194,000 more than it
needed to square last year’s accounts, and it is
going to spend most of that money this year
in order to save its miserably incompetent self
the trouble of being honest, and of raising enough
money to covei the public outgoings.
* * * *
Irvine’s proposals tor the future are still
more dishonest, and his methods are even
more brutal and lawless than those oi the past.
First of all, he proposes to remit £BO,OOO in income
tax. Most of this is on incomes from property,
the rates on which he reduces by 2d. in the £.
True, he intends to reduce the rates on income
from personal exertion by Id. in the £ in each
grade, but he gets at the poor man by keeping
the minimum income on which tax must be
paid at £125 a year, and the exemption at
£lOO. in order to reduce the tax on his
wealthy squatter by 2d. in the £, IRVINE,
who last year cut down the pittance to old age
pensioners by £83,000, now cuts it down by
another £50,000. He does this, too, by the most
unblushing disregard of the law, and an allegedly
civilised and humane community is treated to the
spectacle of a “cool, calm, strong” man stealing
from the weak, aged poor to give to the lusty,
well-fed wealthy. Foulon, who was also a calm
man, was credited, before the French Revolution,
when appealed to on behalf of the poor, witli bid-
ding them eat grass. The French people after-
wards carried his head on a pike around the
streets with a tuft of grass in its mouth. The
Bulletin would be sorry to see Irvine’s head on
a pike—it looks so well on an iceberg; but the
people with hearts m Victoria should see to it
that his dastardly treatment of the old and infirm
poor is fittingly punished at the next election.
Irvine also announces that a Bill will be intro-
duced to permanently limit the expenditure on
old age pensions to £150,000 a year. This means
that the scheme will be wholly crippled, for
the present vote of £210,000 is utterly inade-
quate to properly meet the demands upon it.
The Irvine Government has already disregarded
the law by cutting down the maximum pension to
7s. a week, whereas the statute fixes it at Bs. ; it
is now proposed to further reduce the abjectly
miserable dole to ss. The one decent spot in
Irvine’s Budget is his resolve to diminish by
£20,000 tne subsidy granted to the rich farmers of
Victoria for the cheap carriage of grain, but as
the .£20,000 is to be handed back to these same
rich farmers as a road subsidy, the speck of
decency disappears again. In the richest farming
districts of Victoria the local rates represent about
3d. in the £ of the real annual rental value; in the
city, the rates run as high as 2s. Gd. in the £. It is
to subsidise these farmers, so that they won’t have
to pay 4d. in the £ of rates and make their own
roads, that Irvine proposes to further starve
the old age pensioners ; and it is to pamper that
same heartless crew of Kyabram ghouls that
the hospitals are starved and the lunatics
in Victoria’s disgraceful bedlams sleep two or
three in a bed. No worse disgrace than the
Irvine Government has fallen on Australia since
the time of well, the person this paper had in
its mind was hanged, so it is needless to go into
particulars.
* <■ * *
And this miserably incompentent gang hasn’t
even financial success to set off against its in-
iquities. It ended its first financial year with a
deficit of £44,000, though by appropriating
£238,000 of sinking funds and other moneys accu-
mulated for specific purposes in previous years it
manufactured asham surplusof £194,000. This year
it anticipates an income of £6,958,191, and proposes
to spend £7,108,326 —deficit, £150,135. This will
again be covered by misuse of trust funds, but the
deficit is there all the same. The Irvine Govern-
ment deliberately cuts down the income tax —
principally on the rich—at a time when it can’t
make ends meet. It refuses to put a land-tax on
the wealthy landowners of Melbourne and other
towns, and on the great bulk of its country sup-
porters, while its awful finances are going from
bad to worse. Only once in the last ten years has
Victoria had anything like the deficit which
Irvine says he is going to have this year, and for
which he makes no provision whatsoever. And
Irvine has brought a new iniquity into Victorian
finance—the kind which Reid brought into N.S.W.
He is the first Victorian Treasurer who denied the
existence of his deficit, and covered it up by
annexing trust funds, and posed as a financial
saviour while his results show him to be the most
incapable political muddler that the State has had
since Patterson’s time. The Irvine Govern-
ment has ruined the railways by its mismanage-
ment, and made its broken-down engine and its
collapsed rolling-stock a bye-word; it has stolen
sinking fund ; it has annexed trust
funds ; it has almost abolished old age pensions ;
it has oppressed and insulted the civil service ; it
has shown itself so pitiably ignorant of law that
it sees its Reform Bill annulled because it wasn’t
passed in legal form ; the howls of its uncouth and
bear-like Bent have made it look more like a push
than a Government; and in the end all it can
promise is the biggest deficit save one that
Victoria has had in 10 years, and all the good
work Turner accomplished at straightening the
finances has gone to wreck again.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Long, Thin Federal Territory with a
Possible Bulge in the Middle.
The House of Representatives did some wise
things and some wildly erratic things in deciding
the Federal capital question—so far, that is, as
one House can decide anything on its own responsi-
bility. In selecting Tumut at all it made a foolish
compromise ; still, it might have done worse—for
instance, it might have selected Lake George, At
the first ballot, when every man voted for the site
he considered best, Bombala was in the lead. It
was only when the hopeless sites were dropped
one by one, and astute political engineers of the
Lyne order began to breathe heavily into the
ears of the disgusted member whose own choice
was hopeless that he might as well give his
vote to Tumut, that that place began to show
up conspicuously. Having selected Tumut, the
House next decided that the Federal territory
must embrace at least 1000 square miles —which is
only objectionable because the proposed area is
insufficient ; 5000 square miles would be much
more to the point. Then, having resolved that as
little as 1000 square miles may serve the purpose,
it was decided (to oblige Victoria) that the terri-
tory must have a frontage to the Murray, and also
(to prevent N.S.W. becoming cross) that it must
have a frontage to the Murrumbidgee. The thou-
sand square miles which the House admitted to
be a possible area would, under these conditions,
be something like a snake—it would be about 90
miles long and about 11 miles wide. Even if the
capital were put in the exact centre of it, part of
the people’s territory (which is supposed to gain
all the increase of value to be created by the
spending of the people’s money on the erection of
a new city) would be 45 miles away north or south
from the Federal capital, while the property of the
private landlord to the east or west would be only
5i miles away, and the private landlord would
reap most of the benefit of the increased land
values. Nothing short of 5000 square miles could
answer under such conditions. Australia wants
a compact Federal territory, which will be so laid
out as to ensure that the largest possible amount
of _ the increase of land values created by the
building of the new capital will be inside its
boundaries; and it doesn’t want a ribbon, or a boa
constrictor, or something the shape of a fire-
escape. Still, things might be worse. Australia
can never be too thankful that its House of
Representatives didn’t decide to have a Federal
territory facing the Murray at one end and the
Macintyre at the other—a sort of string extending
right across New South Wales. If the Senate
accepts the Bill as it stands, the proviso that the
Federal territory.must be 90 miles long makes it
almost certain that it will embody a reasonable
area—unless it is decided to make it one chain
wide most of the way, and with a large bulge
in the middle—the kind you see on a snake
that has just swallowed an egg. Leaving out
the bulged snake theory the humorous conduct of
the House of Representatives has in it some remote
possibilities of good. The possibility that the
Senate may take the other House’s long Federal
territory by the tail and drag it right off the pre-
mises, is, of course, still to be considered.
• ♦
Senator de Largie’s Preetrade Tariff.
The Bulletin receives from Senator de Laegie
the following reply to its “Plain English”
(l/10/’O3) with the above heading :
I accept your invite to briefly “ explain what I was
driving at,” when I nominated a Freetrade tariff as a
question on my proposed Iteferendum ballot paper. It is
admitted that the least definite part of the “ dismal
science” is definitions, even to the student; conse-
quently, I purposely avoided scientific terms, believing
that mathematical exactness in fiscalism is almost im-
possible. To load a ballot-paper with a long list of
questions, or put on it explanations , would lead to
confusion. Besides, who is going to make the explana-
tions ? It would be as unfair for a Freetrader to define
Protection, or vice versd, as it would he to accept, say,
Dill Macky’s explanation of K.C. tenets. To ignore
them altogether as The Bulletin did, and say, “ As for a
Freetrade tariff as distinguished from a Freetrade
revenue tariff there is no such thing,” is political in-
tolerance unworthy of The Bullktix. Suffice it for a
fiscal freethinker like myself to know that there is a
fiscal sect who believe with the “ 'Frisco Prophet,”
“that the mere substitution of a re\enue tariff for a
Protective tariff is such a lame and timorous application
of Freetrade principles that it is a misnomer.” Hence
the reason for a Freetrade tariff on the ballot paper.
It certainly seems to The Bulletin that Senator
de Laegie, instead of accepting this paper’s invi-
tation, has carefully avoided it, and has been
silent in many words over it. The dictionary
defines a tariff as a series of duties levied on
goods imported or exported. Mr. de LAEGiE.pro-
posed the taking of a fiscal referendum on these
four issues:
Protectionist tariff.
Protectionist revenue tariff.
Fr.etrade revenue tariff.
Freetrade tariff.
And The Bulletin objected on the ground that
there was no such thing on earth as a Freetrade
tariff. A Protectionist tariff pure and simple is a
tariff designed wholly to protect local industries


even if it yields no revenue ; it doesn’t tax imports
of goods that can’t be made locally, and as regards
those that can be made locally it aims at stopping
imports altogether. A Protectionist revenue tariff
may only aim at putting on such duties as will
reduce— not abolish—imports of goods that can
be made locally; also, it may include purely
revenue duties on goods that can’t be produced
locally. A Freetrade revenue tariff taxes goods
that can’t be produced locally, but if it also taxes
imports of goods that can be made locally it is
accompanied by an exactly equal excise on the
local product. Thereby revenue is secured, and
at the same time there is preserved the great
Freetrade law that nothing must be done by tariff
means to aid our own people in finding work or
wages, and that every outside nigger, Chinaman,
enemy, and sweater must be put as strictly
on a level with our own people as absolute
tariff equality will permit. As regards any
Freetrade tariff which is separate and dis-
tinct from a Freetrade revenue tariff, there is
no such thing. Senator de Largie (who doesn’t
explain what a Freetrade tariff is) accuses The
Bulletin of “fiscal intolerance” for saying that
the thing doesn’t exist, but it is just as
intolerant to say that there is no such thing as
a live corpse, or a liquid solid, or a white black
color. It is no use hiding behind Henry George
in the matter —he didn’t advocate a Freetrade
tariff though he did advocate no tariff. Senator
de Largie says it would be unfair for a Pro-
tectionist to define Freetrade terms, but surely it
isn’t unfair to ask the Freetrader himself to define
them, and surely a follower of the ’Frisco Prophet
who advocated the abolition of tariffs doesn’t need
to shirk the no-tariff issue so badly as that. The
Bulletin’s complaint against the Freetraders
of Australia is that they haven’t the courage of
their convictions ; that they never dare when in
power to put their creed, or alleged creed,
squarely before the people and stand or fall by it;
that they never dare to practise their alleged
gospel; that they are always protecting a multi-
tude of industries, and denying that they do it,
and scoffing at the Protection they surreptitiously
follow, and claiming the results of their semi-
Protective policy as proofs of the advantages of
Freetrade. And even when an admirer of the man
who advocated only one tax, and that a tax on
land, proposes to put his case before the people, he
doesn’t suggest that they should be invited
honestly to vote for “no tariff”—he calls it
“Freetrade tariff.” And when he is asked to de-
fine a Freetrade tariff as distinct from a Freetrade
revenue tariff he calls his questioner “intolerant.”
That word, at all events, can’t be thrown in
reproach at Mr. de Largie. A man who appar-
ently follows the Prophet who wanted to abolish
all tariffs, and yet who proposes to confine his
fiscal referendum to various kinds of tariff and
leave his own creed out of the question altogether
is tolerant enough to be an Orange Jesuit or a
villainous dwarf saint ten feet high.
»
Throwing Mud at the Australian
Parliament.
The Australian Parliament must needs decide
very soon whether it will allow its laws and its
dignity to be permanently rubbed in the gutter
by petty State politicians. In the early days of
Federation the Victorian and N.S.W. State Par-
liaments, for no visible reason save the desire
to be quarrelsome and disagreeable, enacted
that no member of the Australian Parliament
could stand for the State Legislatures. S.A.
followed suit to some extent. The Australian
Parliament retorted by enacting that no State
member should be eligible to stand for the Senate
or House of Representatives—that he must resign
his State billet at least 14 days before becoming a
Federal candidate. The first brick of premedi-
tated contempt that was thrown at the Federal
law in this matter was cast by Victoria when
the State Parliament elected one of its
own members— Robert Reid, the importer,
a member of a firm which was found
guilty of grossly defrauding the public revenue—
to fill a vacancy in the Senate. It did this, appa-
rently, by way of premeditated insult, or because
Premier Irvine’s law was as shaky in this matter
as in the case of his broken-down Reform Bill, and
the Australian Parliament, with foolish complais-
ance, let the matter pass. There was an inclination
among the Labor members to challenge alleged
Senator Reid’s unlawful election, but it was
breathed into the party’s ear that it shouldn’t
tread on the worm when it was down, and the
alleged Senator impudently took his seat and
passed himself off as a genuine and full-blown
legislator. New South Wales Parliament, with
the Reid precedent to go upon, followed suit, and
elected one of its State members, Dr. Mackellar,
M.L.C., to fill its first senatorial vacancy, thereby
rubbing in the insult. Whether the Australian
Parliament will be equally humble in this case
doesn’t appear yet. Now Lonsdale, M.L.A.,
is reported as announcing that he will stand
for the Australian Parliament at the general
election while still holding his billet as a State
M.L.A., which is not only throwing mud at
the law but is throwing tbe mud publicly and
with needless emphasis. Lonsdale asserts that
the Federal law in this matter is ultra vires, so his
apparent contention is that the State Parliament
has power to disqualify Federal members at State
elections, but that the Australian Parliament, as
a poor, inferior institution, has no corresponding
power. And unless the Australian Parliament is
prepared to acquiesce in this opinion about its
own miserable inferiority, the time has about
come for it to say something loud.
♦
Australia’s Stagnant Shipping Trade.
At the recent half-yearly meeting of the Mel-
bourne Shipping Co. the chairman, Hugh R.
Reid, declared himself altogether opposed to the
proposed Navigation Bill. Australian shipping,
he said, had made marvellous strides in the last
25 years without any coddling, and it was foolish
to imperil great interests by experimental legis-
lation. If a time should come when State assis-
tance was wanted, he thought that, instead of a
Navigation Act (which would, incidentally, do
something for the seamen in the matter of wages,
&c.), the Government should subsidise the ship-
owner (the owner being the only person to be
considered) on the condition that some of his
vessels were available as a naval reserve in time
of war. Taking one consideration with another,
Hugh R. Reid seems to be much better satisfied
with the progress of Australian shipping than the
case calls for. There isn’t nearly so much
information available on this subject as there
should be, but a lot of the available news is
depressing. For instance, in 1883 and 1884, the
vessels built in New South Wales represented
7450 tons a year; while for the last 10 years the
ships built there have only represented 1361 tons
per annum. That is not an extra healthy sign to
begin with. And another sign, which looks no
better, is the inability of Australasia to maintain
a fair hold on the trade of its own ports. The
figures which follow refer to New South Wales
only (those for all Australasia are not at hand),
but as the same local, British and foreign ships
call in at the ports of various States, the
proportion is probably very much alike all over
the Commonwealth. “ British ” includes the very
small proportion of vessels from Canada and other
British possessions:
Vessels Entered and Cleared at N.S.W. Ports.
Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent.
Australasian of British of Foreign of
(tons). total. (tons), total, (tons), total,
1891 3,029,067 53 1,873,540 33 791,629 14
1894 3,017,817 521 2,175,154 38 546,583 9J
1897 3,414,588 61 2,335,168 34J 993,974 14J
1900 3,734,670 46J 3,111,822 39 1,168,397 141
1902 3,901,179 44J 3,481,619 40 1,345,346 15j
This signifies that Australasia, so far as can be
judged by the trade of N.S.W. ports, holds every
year a smaller and smaller proportion of its own
shipping trade. Of course it has not in reality
anything like the proportion these figures might
seemed to indicate ; the petty little local coaster
that calls in at a dozen ports every month and
has its tonnage reckoned at each port looms up
larger in these returns than the British or French
ocean liner that calls at only one N.S.W. port,
and is only reckoned once, though the liner may
move a vast amount more cargo. But while the
proportion of the trade which is held by Aus-
tralian vessels isn’t, and never was, so large as it
looks, it keeps growing steadily less. Moreover,
the tonnage of Commonwealth vessels included
in the above return is actually diminishing
at present; the increase shown of late under the
Australasian heading is wholly in the Maoriland-
owned vessels. The Australian tonnage going in
and out of N.S.W. ports in 1901 was 3,462,435
tons; in 1902 it was only 3,371,179 tons. In 1890
the vessels registered in the Commonwealth States
represented 294,404 tons; 11 years later, in 1901
(writer has no later returns under this head),
it was 345,267 tons—a very small increase
compared to the increase in the total shipping
that enters and leaves these ports, and not at
all in keeping with the growth of population.
Also, an increasing proportion _of the shipping
that is registered in Australia is owned abroad.
Taking all these matters into consideration, it
can’t be said that Australia is doing well in the
shipping line, and though, in their childish terror
of that bogey which they call “socialistic legisla-
tion,” some owners may be prepared to swear
that things are all that can be wished, there is
really great need for some kind of law which will
make Australia its own shipowner.
The Rhodes Scholars.
The late Cecil Rhodes, having left a portion of
the proceeds of his robberies for the foundation of
certain scholarships at Oxford University for
“colonial” and American youths, so that the
blessings of the one and only true bleat may be
brought to the darkest corners of the earth—there
is now discussion in Australia as to the method
by which its share of the scholars shall be chosen.
There is also a suggestion that, after the local
youth has been sent to Oxford and taught his
“haw,”anice, snug, high-grade Government billet
shall be kept open for him here. Otherwise,
wails a University professor, what are the Rhodes
scholars to do ? The Bulletin meekly suggests
that they should get work—go to graft—hunt
round for a job—hustle. If in the process o
becoming Rhodes scholars they are made such
poor creatures that they can’t earn their bread at
a profession or at road-making, the advantage of
sending them away to undergo that process is
more than doubtful. Their attendance at Oxford,
where they will mostly learn “ the humanities,”
should, if they take to heart what they read, teacli
them not to despise manual labor ; and they
should at least imbibe from the Latin and Greek
authors a respect for agriculture as a calling.
Why should they not come back and become far-
mers, anddigpost-holes in two dead languages. But
it is evidently foreseen that the Rhodes scholars
will come back fit only fora white-hand and a white-
brained billet. They are expected to return in
a state of mind that will make it impossible for
them to scramble for themselves, even in compe-
tition with people not blessed with their expen-
sive training, so they are to be provided with
some hot-house job, where an admiring country
will brush the flies off them and bring them cool
drinks. On this basis, isn’t it sheer waste of
money to send them to Oxford at all ? Presum-
ably Cecil Rhodes’ bequest cannot be diverted.
The money is to be spent on Oxford “ haw” or on
nothing. It would have been a more honest and
more useful return of conscience money on his
part if he had devoted the coin to some irrigation
work, or a canal, or a giant closer settlement
scheme; or, if his passion for education was
genuine, to the establishment of colleges which
would allow the poor child, who has now to stop at
the bare elements of education, to go further on
the road of learning. But millionaires seem to
generally bequeath their charity-money with an
eye to advertisement rather than genuine utility.
Chamberlain proposes Straight
Protection.
‘ ‘ Unalloyed Protection ! ” cries one of the Eng-
lish Cobdenite papers in dismay at the definite
unfolding of Chamberlain’s fiscal scheme. And
that it assuredly is—moderate but unalloyed Pro-
tection, the beginning in England of a process of
fiscal reform which will one day culminate in
M'Kinleyism. Curiously enough, it is, too, the
exact antithesis of that policy. which George
Reid has been endeavoring to inflict upon Aus-
tralia, and which he will again endeavor to inflict
after the Federal elections, unless he sees a short
cut to office in sinking the fiscal issue. George
Reid, with the backing of the Sydney foreign-
trade papers, proposes a tariff which would
raise as much revenue as the present one,
but which would be so shaped that it would not
help any native industry or shelter a single work-
man from the cheap-labor competition of Asia and
Europe. Chamberlain suggests for Britain a
tariff which will yield no more revenue than the
present duties, but which will, in almost every
item, be shaped towards Protection. The purely
revenue duties are to be greatly reduced and their
places taken by imposts which in many cases will
bring in a minimum of revenue whilst providing a
maximum of Protection against the foreigner.
Briefly summarised, the Chamberlain programme
amounts to this —
(1) A 75 per cent, reduction of the duty on tea ; a 50
per cent, reduction of that on sugar ; reductions of the
tariff on coffee and cocoa and other revenue food duties,
amounting in all, probably (full details have not yet been
cabled out), to a reduction of the present receipts by one-
half.
(2) A Protective duty of 2s. a quarter on foreign corn,
and a corresponding duty on flour; a 5 per cent, ad
valorem on foreign meat and dairy produce.
(3) A Protective 10 per cent, ad valorem duty on foreign
manufactures.
The new food duties would not bring in nearly
enough to compensate for the loss by the remissions
or reductions on tea and other items. Chamber-
lain estimates the loss at about £3,000,000 a year,
probably it would be more. Since the food duties
are only to apply to foreign imports, and colonial
goods are exempt, it is probable the supplies of
the protected items would, in time, come almost
solely from Canada and Australasia. However,
ample provision is made for any revenue loss by
the 10 per cent, tariff on imported manufactures
which, for the present at any rate, would yield
about £10,000,000 a year. It is to be noted that
Chamberlain’s scheme is designed rather to pro-
tect the manufacturer than the agriculturist.
For the present he shrinks from the huge task of
reviving British agriculture by Protection. Since
the wheat and meat and dairy produce duties are
to be remitted in the case of imports from any
part of the Empire, their effect will be to protect
Imperial rather than British agriculture. And
this preference to “ the colonies ” is to be used to
induce preferential treatment by them of British
manufactures. Chamberlain’s ideal is evidently
a sort of inter-imperial Customs Union in which
Britain will be the great manufacturing centre
and the “colonies” the great food supply areas.
The point that Chamberlain misses, so far as
Australia is concerned, is that this country isn’t
going to be anybody’s Gibeonite on the terms
suggested. In Australia, where droughts are
frequent and agriculture is accordingly handi-
capped, the supplies of coals and metals are more
than ordinarily abundant, and Australia is not
going to starve on agriculture when it can grow
rich in other ways—not even to fit in with
Joe’s great schemes. But, dealing with
Chamberlain’s platform as it affects Britain
only, its breadth of view and political acute-
ness are both obvious. The hostile cry by
the Cobdenites of “dearer food” is swept away
by the provision for a freer breakfast table than
before. Britain at present, without protecting
any local industry, collects more money pro rata
from food duties than Australia does. The
Chamberlain Protection proposals reduce the
food taxes largely—in the probable contingency of
the colonies supplanting foreign countries in the
supply of meat, wheat and dairy produce it reduces
them by more than 50 per cent. Thus the workers
will get the benefit of increased employment from
Protection, and, at the same time, cheaper food.
The manufacturers will be given a better chance in
their home market by the rampart of a 10 per cent,
duty against the foreigner, and will, at the same
time, have the advantage of what preference is
gained from Australia, Canada and Africa in
return for the preferential treatment of their food
products. And the revenue will not suffer.
Even if the plan fails utterly to attract “the
colonies,” yet if it merely secures for the
Britisher the control of his own market the
gain will be enormous. Chamberlain’s scheme
may not, probably will not, find general
acceptance at the next British elections; but
its ultimate triumph is certain. The prob-
abilities are that at the next elections the
Balfour Government will perish. Its war
administration ; its reckless O’Sullivanism
(the last Budget was for £143,000,000); its
concessions to sectarianism ; its lack of any com-
manding personality; its general policy of muddle
and drift, will secure its extinction. Yet the
Chamberlain party of Protection is not likely
then to secure enough votes to give it the reins of
power, and, in a Parliament of chaotic factions, a
Liberal Administration of weak men with no
definite policy, will probably, for a very short
time, stop a hole to keep the wind away. Then
Chamberlain, provided he lives, will come into
power and do something to repair the harm he
did to Britain in the matter of the S’African war,
by reviving its industries with “ unalloyed Pro-
tection.”
Cohen Begins to Take Possession.
Almost every week there is given a warning that
Australia must shortly pay for her borrowing
policy in principles as well as in interest. Hints
from the London Cohens as to what legislation
will please them and what will not are now con-
stantly given—and frequently taken. They can’t
but be taken whilst Australia continues the policy
of borrowing. If it were to determine to stop
borrowing absolutely now, for good, there would
be no need to worry about Cohen’s views when
renewal loana have to be floated. If Cohen
didn t wish to renew the old loans on fair terms,
the State could simply set forth its terms and
explain that the loan was renewed on these
terms. There would be no possible alterna-
tive to acceptance. But whilst the various
Governments wish, not only to renew old
loans, but to constantly float new ones, it is
necessary to be servile to Cohen, and that gentle-
man knows it, and is beginning to exercise his
power There was a great meeting of money
magnates in London, the other day, to discuss the
Westralian mining position, and various plutocrats
spoke as follows:
I sincerely hope that the Government will bring about
an amendment in the Police Act as it relates to gold
stealing, and, while we have no intention to antagonise
the Government, or to hamper it in any way in its honest
endeavor to safeguard the interests of the' State, yet, as
predominant partners in the concern, we mean to have
our recommendations listened to, and due weight given
to our representations.
I know the difficulties that colonial Governments have
to contend with, and I am in active sympathy with them.
These difficulties largely arise from the franchise, and it
is only when we have Governments strong enough to
break away from the over-mastering influence of class
legislation, that we shall have good and sound govern-
ment, and be able to ring in an era that will make for
the peace and prosperity of the whole community.
Besides that, we have been forced to submit to a
general rise in wages in some parts of the colony. This
has been done in spite of a steadily lessened'cost of
living, and there is no colony in Australia where the
workman has an opportunity of saving in the same
proportion to his wage as he had in Westralia before
the Conciliation Board came into operation.. . In regard
to the labor question, we can go a long way towards
solving this also if we can unite on some ticket system,
by which only the good men in the colony should be
employed by the companies. We should thus eliminate
the gold-stealer and the demagogue.
A State can hardly call itself self-governing when
it has to tremble before foreign plutocrats who talk
in that way, and fears to answer back because of
“its credit in London.” The various Australian
Labor parties are busily engaged in uprearing a
fine fabric of Arbitration Acts, factory laws, anti-
sweating legislation, and so on, without thinking
in the least of sound finance, without which as a
basis no reform can be stable. A few more years
of the present borrowing policy and Cohen will
come to take full possession of our politics and
revise them on plutocratic lines. There can be
no permanent freedom in a pawned country.
♦
A Parliamentary Cleaning-up.
Considering the great mass of hopeless motions
on the notice paper of the average Parliament, it
is obvious that some vigorous reform in the
method of procedure is essential. A notice may
remain on the paper for years without any chance
of getting a vote upon it. It at last its turn does
come round, it generally gets the scrag-end of an
evening in a thin, tired House; the mover states
his case; then there is an uprising of some
long-winded person or persons, and a hazy yarn
lasts till closing time, and the matter is post-
poned again indefinitely. The man with a griev-
ance can get some kind of a hearing by moving
the adjournment of the House, but then, at the
very best, he can only gee the House to endorse
his complaint in a very indefinite fashion by
closing up for * the night and going honie
early, to the great neglect of business. The
remedy that is wanted is one which will
enable a direct vote to be taken in a full House
on every question submitted by a member,
so that every politician with an idea or a
grievance shall be able to get his idea ac-
cepted, or else be definitely snuffed out and
not left to linger for months or years on the
business paper as an unburied remnant. The
Bulletin suggests that towards the close of the
session there should be a call of the House—the
only process by which a full attendance can be
secured. Then every motion which has hitherto
failed to get a hearing, or which the mover prefers
to have dealt with in this way, should be put to
the vote without debate. Debate, as a rule, is
unnecessary, for speeches don’t alter votes except
in rare instances. The House, in the great
majority of cases, knows exactly what its opinion
is, though very often it doesn’t want to
record its opinion. For instance, there has
loafed op the notice paper of N.S.W. Assembly
for an indefinite period, a motion to the effect
that money received from the sale of public lands
should not be treated as revenue, but applied in
reduction of the public debt. It isn’t likely that,
on a clear-cut issue of such a kind, two months of
solid oratory would change a vote one way or the
other. The author of the motion (it stands in the
name of J. C. L. Fitzpatrick), if he is in dead
earnest, doesn’t want to talk about his motion,
bub to get a decision upon it. And a great
part of the House, including the Government,
doesn’t want a vote—it would as soon have a
goblin. It doesn’t want to vote against the idea,
for the idea itself is so palpably honest that it
would be a very bad advertisement to be listed
among the Noes. It doesn’t want to vote for it,
and thereby commit itself and its constituents to
pay the price of honesty. Therefore it is almost
certain that the motion is blocked ; and if io ever
gets a hearing it will be talked out, or else
members will sidle out of the Chamber, and the
House will shut up for want of a quorum. The
individual member disapproves, in theory, of the
present dishonest practice, and wouldn’t for the
world say anything publicly against national
honesty ; he is only detained by important busi-
ness when the question of being honest and paying
the necessary expenses turns up. A system
which would keep a full House for the five
minutes that are required to extract a definite
expression of opinion on a subject like that—the
fiveminu'es required so that each member may
go straight for once, and cease to wobble, and
either vote publicly for being dishonest or vote
publicly for taxing his constituents sufficiently to
pay the cost of honesty—is easily arranged. The
question is whether the House wants any such
system arranged.
4
A Maorilander, who thinks the policy of adver-
tising Seddon’s empire is being carried too far,
writes
Alluring and highly imaginative advts. are appearing
in the Cold Country press pointing a golden finger to
Maoriland as the happy hunting-ground of the agricul-
tural emigrant. This gent, is informed in the choice
language of the blatant auctioneer that there are two
million acres of rich farm land available, and, in addition
to other advantages which are detailed, assisted passages
are mentioned, and it is stated that money will be
advanced for building. Inquisitive members of the House
have been anxious to know where all this rich land is
located, and why hundreds of Maorilanders can’t get it.
Also, they want to know why the country is spending
millions in acquiring private estates if there is so much
good public property going to seed ; and, further, why
outsiders should be deliberately misled, through nothing
being said in the advt. about having to face the ballot,
perhaps unsuccessfully, in order to get land. Seddon
blabbed all round the point, as usual, and gave an unsatis-
factory reply. Now John Duthib is asking what right
the Government has to invite tourists (per advt.) to
transport themselves to M.L. and visit the great Maori
chiefs and their charming daughters. Certainly, the
idea of advertising the brown girl, whom the tourist
generally assumes to be a partially nude girl, as an
attraction to tourists, is running the thing into the
ground.
The Man of Old.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I know the Modern Man’s a fraud,
He only lusts for gold ;
But greater fraud by far, I ween,
Was he—the Man of Old.
We only meet him in a book,
Wherein we find his sin,
His ancient lies, his love of beer,
His battle-suit of tin.
He lay in wait to shoot his foe,
He stabbed him in the back,
And when he’d burnt a casual saint
He’d drink a quart of sack.
He calmly thrashed his wife by day,
Then blithesome ditties trolled,
And pressed by night a drunken couch —
The Peerless Wight of Old.
He went to church and prayed full oft—
For much he held in fear
The band of black Beelzebub,
Who prowl by night and peer ;
The witches, too, he held in awe—
For, high above the wold,
They’d ride upon the merry broom
To scare the Wight of Old.
He thought the lore of Books a snare,
He loved the lore of Beer ;
He held his servants somewhat less
Than e’er he held a deer.
With curses loud and curses deep
His halls ancestral rolled—
In sooth, he was a Festive Wight,
The Glorious Man of Old !
And cunning scribes have dressed him up
(As I have dressed him down),
And made a battling hero where
The Lord had made a clown ;
They’ve made his wife a queenly dame
From out a queanly scold,
And shrined in many a sweet romance
This precious pair of Old.
The man to-day is mostly knave—
I think he knows it too—
And so he conjures from the grave
A glorious phantom crew ;
In contrast to his creeping self,
He makes them bluff and bold,
Then trots them out upon the stage
And cries —“ The Men of Old ! ”
Q.
P.L.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
£265.597,775
£19,915,124
£73,855,783
£4,889,175
SURPLUS
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
THE NEW BUSINESS THAT OF 1901 by
£15,418,151
£620,434
£6,565,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MAGKELLAR MB MLC
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D. ’ " ' '
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
8. W. D’ARCY IRVINS, F. 5.3., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny ” for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Rosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. j urther particulars, addrm-
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFFICE-
-70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
NARANDERA .
or YOUNG.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Toreador.”
Royal “As You Like It.”
Lyceum “ Her Second Time on Earth.”
Criterion “ Never Too Late to Mend.”
Palace “ Man to Man.’’
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s Arion Operatic Society.
Her Majesty’s “ Monsieur Beaucaire.’’
Theatre Royal “ The World.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville 00.
Hippodrome (off Prince’s
Bridge). Fitzgerald Bros.' Circus.
»
After successfully pursuing crime for a
month, at Sydney Criterion, Alfred Dampier is
now putting in a week pursuing a criminal. The
Bulletin prefers Dampier when he pursues
crime. Captain Starlight, the bushranger, is
Starlight, and nobody else. Kenneth Keith, the
detective, is merely the echo of a score of other
men who have pursued the elusive clue to its lair.
The piece which introduces him, “From Clue to
Capture,” now played in Sydney for the first time,
is by Adam Pierre—and that sounds only an echo,
too. It is all an echo —and why ? Why must we
have all the old familiar English properties—the
rich squire with the familiar family diamonds,
which the villain steals while he also tries
to steal the squire’s pretty daughter, who
wants to marry the humble lover at whom the
old, hard-corned finger of suspicion points; the
English country house, the stupid English country
policeman, the Thames, the wharf at Wapping—
why must we have all these ? Adampierre, who
knows Australia so well, writing a play in Aus-
tralia for Australians—why won’t he give us the
gum instead of the elm ? With the whole realm
of the real to draw upon, why can we have no-
thing but echoes ? By 11.30, therefore, we feel we
have a solid grievance against A. Dampierre ; and
even the fact that the present echo is a tolerably
good one does not wipe the grievance out. Its main
object is to give A. Dampier a chance to play four
or five character parts in one evening, and to this
end the device of making the hero a detective is
adopted. We thus get Adam Pier as an old-clo’
man, in which he is probably at his best; as a
kodaking journalist; as an Irish sailor who has
taken a job as knock-about hand ; and as the
advance agent of a waxwork. In these disguises
he pursues Cass, but on the first night didn’t catch
him till nearly midnight; now, however, some of
the alleged “ comic relief ” is taken as read, and
Virtue is triumphant before the hotels close.
Miss Conroy, Miss Beatrice Holloway, Vivian
Edwards, O’Neill, Hesford, and the others, are
all in their old places. On Saturday of this week
“ Never Too Late to Mend ” will be staged, and,
according to present arrangements, with this piece
the Dampier-Holloway season will end.
** * #
“As You Like It,” at Sydney Royal,
comes to an end this week, and with it ends a
specially gorgeous and profitable Shakspearian
season. The old theory that Shakspeare spells
ruin is evidently out of date. The Bard by him-
self may spell ruin, but the paint and fresco and
dado and decoration that go along with him pay
handsomely. The public, may possibly not care
for the picture, but the rush to see the frame is
something tremendous at times.
#* * &
Concerning “The Toreador,” nowin its
fourth week at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, the unre-
sistingness of the male that has to be subjugated,
in comic opera, is always a marked quality. He
is a man of jelly strength, and when the appointed
girl comes along and moistens her lips engagingly,
wriggles her figure, turns haughtily so as to wind
her train around her feet (as per photograph), and
give him a profile view and the audience a full face
and darts a glance at him from under the Indian
inked lashes, the him places a hand upon his breast
and caves in. In an incredibly short time her ear is
on his shoulder and his beak is in her hair, and
the twain are swearing eternal faith or plotting to
outwit and destroy another twain. The female of
the other twain wants to marry him and the male
wants to marry her. She mentions her heart and
the unresisting male suddenly gallops down to the
footlights—cloak and arms flying—and sings a
song about hearts and darts, but especially about
his heart being at his lady’s feet, to kick if she
chooses to play football that day, or to be picked
up and put in a locket. Sometimes the lady joins
in the song; sometimes she joins in a dance ; but,
anyhow, they both play the fool in season. On the
authority of Horace (when he invited a high official
to come down to his Sabine farm, where there was
plenty of wine and firewood), it is pleasant
to play the dignified Angora goat in season.
And the. “ Toreador ” Co. is following the Hora-
tian advice with great spirit, and large audiences
applaud. Florence Young’s and Thorley’s songs
have not lost their savor, and little Evelyn Scott
deserves a large piece of praise for the humorous
way she endeavors to conceal her male-garmented
limbs from public view by drawing the other
girl’s skirts around them.
* * *
Sydney Lyceum, which has been making
highly successful attempts to grill its circus heroine
during the past fortnight, will, on Saturday, fol-
low “When London Sleeps” with a newly-
imported melodrama, “ Her Second Time on
Earth. ” There are great possibilities about that
title, if the drama can only live up to them.
Niobe, for instance, who brought out of the dark
ages her old Greek habits and her inability to
understand why Cecil Ward covered his legs with
trousers, and who upset a stodgy, middle-class
modern household by cursing on the roof, was a
lady who was doing her second time on earth.
** * *
Miss Fitzmaurice Gill, a distinguished-
looking, and on her way to be distinguished,
actress, opens a short season at Sydney Palace on
Saturday next, and the opening play, “Man to
Man,” is to be produced under the personal super-
vision of George Rignold. Taking him all in all,
Rignold was about the best general actor that
Australia has ever welcomed, and the public will
be glad to notice him sliding back to stage life;
for this personal supervision is probably a step
towards personal participation. “ Man to Man ”
is a melodrama of the higher class, and Miss Gill
and her co. will probably do it justice
** * *
Fisk Jubilee Singers get large audiences
to Sydney Town Hall every Saturday night. On
week nights they do the country places to such an
extent, and go a-railing such distances, that their
plain and colored opinion on the site of a Federal
capital would be worth seeking. It may be
that they would be prejudiced in favor of
places whose inhabitants demanded a repetition
of the singing of “ Our Father ” (by the
company) unto seventy times seven; or whose
population wept copiously whilst Mr. M'Adoo
rumbled out his entreaties to Brother Michael to
“ Throw Him Down a Rope ”; but then an abso-
lutely unbiassed opinion is hard to get. A celestial
rope with the winged captain at the top, hauling,
and a tired Bombala man sitting in a loop at
the other end and being hauled, is a sugges-
tion that would at once rise favorably be-
fore the mind of the man who is weary
of being on the land. As for the lady who sings
“The Cows are in the Clover,” she must be very
welcome wherever there are girls named
Maggie. If there exists a Maggie who would
rather have been a Gladys she will become
reconciled to her name once she hears it sung by
the Fisk soprano.
** * *
All Sydney people who were not able to
attend the Indian Durbar and hear the accumu-
lated elephant making strange remonstrance
through his nose, and look at Curzon on the top
of our largest animal relative, had better supply
that omission this week by going to the great
American "Vitagraph at Queen’s Hall. The
whole great Durbar show has been bottled,
so to speak, and is reproduced, all but the
trumpetings and the swears of swarthy men
carrying elephant-prods. The Vitagraph will
cease to ’vite very soon, but there is still time
to liberalise one’s education about Rome and the
interior of battleships and great cathedrals. The
“Fatal Wedding ” ought to be seen as the Vita-
graph publishes it, also the ducking of the persons
who tell fish stories.
** * #
Marzella and her trained birds have been
attracting big audiences to Sydney Tivoli during
the week. A biograph, with some new pictures,
has also been an attraction. A permanent bio-
graph turn, with a constant succession of good
fresh pictures, would probably pay at a music
hall.
* * * 5*
“ Monsieur Beaucaire,” the new play at
Her Majesty’s (Melbourne), is a hollow, gaudy
fiction concerning a French prince of the blessed
Blood Royal who journeyed incognito from Paris to
Bath (A.D. 1735) and fell among snobs. Bath, at
that period, was the city where the choicest
British snobs assembled annually for the purpose
of an internal and external wash. They drank
the waters and bathed occasionally. Smollett
describes the atmosphere of Bath society in his
most valuable novel, “ Humphrey Clinker.”
Matthew Bramble, the employer of Clinker,
writes from Bath to his friend Dr. Lewis:—
I was persuaded to go to a ball. I sat a couple of long
hours in the midst of a noisome crowd, and could not
help wondering that so many hundreds of those that
rank as rational creatures could find entertainment in
seeing a succession of insipid animals describing the same
dull figure on an area not much bigger than a tailor’s
shop-board. ... An end being put to the minuets, the
benches were removed to make way for the country
dances ; and the multitude rising at once, the whole
atmosphere was put in commotion. Then, all of a
sudden, came rushing on me an Egyptian gale, so impreg-
nated with pestilential vapors that my nerves were over-
powered. ... It was indeed a compound of villainous
smells in which the most violent stinks and the most
powerful perfumes contended for the mastery. . . . Such,
O Dick I is the fragrant ether we breathe in the polite
assemblies of Bath.
Matthew Bramble’s analysis of the odors is too
honestly expressed for the modern Bulletin.
** * *
“Monsieur Beaucaire” is a very polite
costume comedy, and the stinks which smote Mat.
Bramble are not supposed to exist in this pro-
duction. The first scene is the Pump Room at
Bath, where simpering Beau Nash ruled the
mawkish ceremonies, and decreed the fitness or
otherwise of every person who entered the sanctu-
ary. The French prince (alias Beaucaire) is
formally expelled by Nash from Pump Society, on
the ground that he is a mere barber; nevertheless
he figures heroically in his expulsion. In the next
act the ejected barber (whom Melbourne has
known from the first to be Julius Knight, of the
French Blood Royal) is found at his lodgings play-
ing cards with the Bath bong tong, and always
turning up the ace in a high and jaunty manner
as a hero should. A contemptible British duke
tries to cheat, but Beaucaire bests the duke and
compels tha,t baffled aristocrat to reintroduce him
to Bath society und: r a new name. Then a certain
Lady Mary falls in love with the irresistible
foreigner, after which a Captain Badger forces
him to fight a duel, but Beaucaire triumphs over
his adversary, and all the ladies strew red roses
in his path. A devil of a fellow is M’sieur Julius
Beaucaire. His heroism is like unto a snowball,
increasing in size as he rolls it along. In the next
act the united Gentlemen of Bath denounce the
supposed barber as an impostor what time he
is kissing Lady_ Mary, but he fights all the
Gentlemen unanimously with his royal rapier,
and wounds them in their legs for the
sake of affording some comic relief. This
so impresses Lady Mary that she decides to
love the alleged impostor for himself alone, and
let her family pride rip. Finally, the French
Ambassador comes to Bath, and the Ambassador
grovels before the hero and proclaims his rank
and titles to the astonished Pump Room, where-
upon the mean British duke turns pale and the
Lady Mary apologises for her presumption in
having won the heart of a Blood Royalty
* • * *
The story has no suggestion of truth in it,
but it looks quite likely to please the girls. Also,
it may be recommended as an antidote to Tolstoy’s
“Resurrection.” Julius Knight, although not a
sufficiently gay and sparkling performer to do full
justice to the name part, which is, perhaps, the
showiest part that ever gladdened an actor’s soul,
gets through his heroic duties in a pleasing
manner. His attempt to talk English like a
Frenchman is very poor, but his clothes are rich
in quality and profusely trimmed. Miss Jeffries
makes an effective Lady Mary, “the Beauty of
Bath.” Other parts are not played with much
dash or distinction by the imported members of
the co.; neither does the local talent give very
valuable support. In fact, Johnson Weir’s con-
ception of Captain Badger might have been as
bad had he come 12,000 miles to do it.
** * *
The Princess’s is just now a picnic ground
for amateurs. Three nights' of “ Rob Roy ” will
terminate on Friday, and on Saturday an operatic
society with a new name—the Arion —tackles
“The Mikado” for the benefit of the Women’s
Hospital. There are others to follow, but even
the. pertinacity of . the aspiring amateur has its
limits, and the Princess’s Theatre will probably
be tenantless for some weeks.
** * *
Bland Holt proposes to drop “ The Union
Jack” and revive “The World,” at Melbourne
Royal, on Saturday next (17th). “ The World ”
is about the most often revived and generally
beloved of the old dramatic panoramas from Drury
Lane. This time it is for 12 nights only, and all
citizens, who have not yet seen the only drama
that brings Bland Holt to the gallows are advised
to seize one or more of the 12 opportunities.
*# * *
Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus is returning to
Melbourne next Saturday (17th); not the same
Circus that came and went recently, but a new
and enlarged extra double-fronted Circus, twice
as broad and long as the Circus that boomed in
Sydney last Easter-time. Tom Fitzgerald’s
description of the forthcoming avalanche is a
most impressive story. His supreme object in
life is to astonish Melbourne with such a show as
the city never dreamed of in its sober moments.
And this is to be That Show.
** * *
Coming events are talked about at the
Opera House. A female Sandow is understood to
be due shortly, together with numerous attractions.
Meanwhile, the programme grows very sad and
weary, like de niggah in de ballad, and the great-
ness of “ America’s Greatest Sketch Artists ”
seems to be diminishing every week. It is hard
for sketch artists to remain truly great for six
months right off the reel. Perhaps the artists in
question haven’t been at Rickards’ for six months,
but the time seems almost as long.
** * #
Things theatrical are very dull in Adelaide.
The Anderson Co., in its last nights, left off the
melodrama in which Diver had played villain,
and went back to “ The Mariners of England,” in
which he plays a Nelson as venerable as the real
man might have been if Trafalgar hadn’t occurred
when he was much younger. The management,
by the way, having promoted a children’s essay
competition.in connection .with Nelson, thought-
fully advertised (without naming the winners) that
“all interested are expected to;be present on the
last two nights, in order that the winners may
receive their prizes in person.” The Orpheus
Society has given a big concert to welcome its
conductor back from Europe, and the Choral
Society has done the “Creation” once more, and
now things are standing still till Ada Crossley
comes.
** * *
“ 0.K.” on two great singers :
Seems to me that some of the comparisons drawn
between Melba and Ada Crossley are absurdly unfair to
the greater singer. It is remarked that whereas Melba
showed very little emotion when being welcomed and
gushed over on one Australian occasion and another, Ada
Crossley is really “overcome.” Tears rolled down her
cheeks, for instance, when she found thousands of people
(recipients of invitation tickets) waiting to glorify her at
Melbourne railway station. But Melba had been the
heroine of excited demonstrations in many cities before
she came to Australia. She was hardened to such flatter-
ing extravagances, and had long ago taken the measure
of their worth. Nevertheless, Melba didn’t “ lack feel-
ing.” The ordeal of facing a Melbourne audience for the
first time after her return in the character of a great
singer affected Melba in one way and Crossley in a
different way. The soprano sang divinely—the first notes
of Melba’sfirstnumber(from “ Lucia”) were marvellously
beautiful. She was strung up to perfection pitch. The
contralto, on the other hand, was too nervous to do her-
self justice. Her voice had no thrill in it, her singing
was not particularly full of expression. She didn’t rise
to the occasion as Melba had risen, and that’s all
about it. It is often remarked of Melba, in in-
direct disparagement of her triumphs, that she pos-
sesses a great capacity for business—knows how to
advertise herself and “work the press and public.”
What struck me about that strange-mannered woman
was her inability to make herself half so pleasant as she
doubtless would have liked to appear. So far from being
a great tactician, she is a bad business-woman as regards
the business of ingratiating herself with all sorts and con-
ditions of people. I would say that Ada Crossley can
give Melba many points in that branch of industry—and
more power to her if she can. She has the cooler head of
the two artists, and by far the greater aptitude for
winning the esteem of all who make her acquaintance.
She wears the V.O. decoration on her chest. .She travels
with an ex-Australian penwoman and persistent puff
paragraphist as a sort of unofficial private secretary. An
admirable artist, a shrewd, kindly lady, and an un-
affected self-advertiser.
#* * *
“ Alba,” on Wagner, who may now con-
sider himself dead :
Attended an Amateur Orchestral Wagner concert at
Sydney Town Hall, t’other night. The men who attend
Wagner concerts take the same size in heads ; there were
three in front of writer which expanded like baby
gasometers whenever Signor Hazon shook his stick at the
bass fiddle. Wagner is a man of many enhancements
and ferocious discords. In the matter of Arcadian and
pastoral music he simply throws the forest at you—forests
that abound in Odins and Valkyries, and yelps. Writer
construes the yelps to mean that a she-bear is running
over the frozen Danube, pursued by a wolf-pack. Wag-
ner’s palaces are filled with the din of giants and bearded
Huns. The sharp discord among the viols tells one that
Hagen, son of the Nibelung, has thrust a joke or a spear
between Siegfried’s shoulders. The neighing of horses is
well represented, or it may only be the songs of the min-
strels competing for the prize ode. Such was my first
impression; my second was that Wagner hurls forth
masses of indigestible tone-pictures, avalanches of
Slavonic imagery, which numb and stupefy the person
who has been reared on cake-walks and other musical
refreshments. Wagner’s colossal tetralogies lack the
melodious and simple suggestiveness of Beethoven’s work.
If Tannhauser is in pain the viols shriek the fact, while
the big drum goes into mourning and refuses all nourish-
ment. It seems to me as though Wagner’s work is
imperfectly distilled ; the bulk of it is inclined to be sour
and over-dramatic at the expense of symphonic accord.
His music is certainly anti-cosmopolitan. Finally, who
shall say that he has not Germanised his art?
The Wild Cat Column.
There is more trouble in the highly perfumed
parts of Circular Quay ; the Co-operative Wool Co. and
the other selling brokers are at it again. These two lots
fight quite naturally. The Co-op.’s owners are wool-
growers more than they are wool-sellers ; the others are
wool-sellers only. The Co-op.’s owners are therefore more
interested in keeping selling charges down than in
holding them up ; the others’ business is to hold them up.
The other brokers call the Co-op. a blackleg for cutting
down commissions; the Co-op. thinks of the others as
useless middlemen, whose services it is trying to do with-
out in the interests of the producers. Of course, they quar-
rel ; in such circumstances they couldn’t be expected to be
good friends, even without the aggravation of a wool-and-
hide atmosphere. And that the other brokers should then
decline to allow the 00.-op. to use their sale-room is at
least understandable, if it isn’t commendable. What is
not understandable is that the buyers should join forces
with the selling brokers as against the 00.-op. They are
not interested in the row in any way ; what they are in-
terested in is in getting wool at the lowest possible price,
and from that point of view this row, and the continued
existence of the 00.-op., ought to be good business. But,
somehow, they have allowed themselves to be induced to
boycott the Co.-op., and thus have left a nasty suspicion
in the minds of many growers and others that selling and
buying brokers work too nearly hand-in-hand to be
good for the parties they represent. Also, there is a
feeling that if a trades-union of shearers, instead of a
trades-union of wool-buyers, had acted as the buyers
have done, said buyers would have called it conspiracy,
boycott, an outrageous development of socialism, re-
straint of trade, outrage on the liberty of the subject,
proceedings calculated to drive capital out of the country
and damage the public credit, and many other things.
* * * *
Treasurer Irvine, who made his Budget speech
last week, deliberately set Victoria on the road to a
deficit for the current year. Other Treasurers have had
their estimated surpluses turned into deficits ; but Irvine
does not even propose that Victoria shall attempt to pay
its way. Certainly, by a shallow piece of jugglery, he
exhibits a surplus of £44,000 ; but, as he brings forward
£194,000 of the trust funds he annexed last year and uses
it as revenue, it is clear that, on the year’s transactions,
the cool, calm man proposes that the State shall go
£150,000 to the bad. And while he is saying that Victoria
can’t pay its way, or, at any rate, that he won’t ask it to
pay its way, he is borrowing £5,000,000 on most disastrous
terms. For years past Victoria has been accumulating
deficits. It has, in recent years, rarely lived within its
means. The position for the 10 years preceding that with
which Irvine has just dealt was as follows :
Revenue. Expenditure.
1893 ..£6,959,229 £7,989,757 Deficit ..£1,030,528
1894 .. 6,716,814 7,310,246 „ .. 593,432
1895 .. 6,712,152 6,760,439 „ .. 48,287
1896 .. 6,458,682 6,540,182 „ .. 81,500
1897 .. 6,630,217 6,568,932 Surplus .. 61,285
1898 .. 6,898,240 6,928,850 Deficit .. 30,610
1899 .. 7,378,842 7,001,663 Surplus .. 377,179
1900 .. 7,450,676 7,280,689 „ .. 169,987
1901 .. 7,722,397 7,683,079 „ .. 39,318
1902 .. 7,006,333 7,407,781 Deficit .. 401,448
That is a 10 years’ record ; and there were deficits before
those days. On June 30th, 1902, the accumulated Vic-
torian shortage was put down by Coghlan at £2,613,377.
But, while the Irvine Government did not bring one
penny of this into the accounts for 1903, it brings the
whole of the surplus for that year (£193,967) into the
accounts for 1904 (said surplus being created by the
annexation of sinking funds, &c.). If Irvine is entitled to
take credit in 1904 for the surplus of 1903, then he must
also debit himself in 1903 with the deficit of 1902. The
juggle by which the surplus of one year, however
acquired, is carried forward to be the surplus of next
year and the year after, so that one surplus is made into
three surpluses, while last year’s deficit is never brought
forward to be this year’s deficit again, is a silly kind of
political swindle.
Last year, by using £234,000 of trust and sink-
ing funds as revenue, these results were shown :
Revenue for 1902-1903 .. .. .. £6,968,051
Expenditure for 1902-1903 .. . . 6,774,084
Surplus £193,967
Collecting the same taxes and arranging expenditure on
the same scale as last year, the figures for 1904 would be :
Revenue £7,038,000
Expenditure .. .. 7,062,000
Deficit .. .. £24,000
The old-age pensioners suffered last year to the extent of
£82,000 ; they got £210,000 instead of the £292.000 which
they got in the previous year. Irvine chose these
most helpless ones for attack, and, lopping from their
dole £60,000 more, manufactured a surplus for 1904. The
estimate stood now :
Revenue .. *.. .. £7,038,000
Expenditure 7,002,000
Surplus.. .. £36,000
If, in his Budget, Irvine had gone on that basis it would
have been hateful enough, but the surplus would still
have been real —so far as any such surplus estimated 9 or
10 months ahead is real. But he proceeded on this basis:
Revenue (on last year’s basis) .. £7,038,000
Less Income Tax Remitted .. 80,000
Revenue, as Estimated .. .. £6,958,000
Expenditure (on last year’s basis) £7,062,000
Less Old Age Pensions Reduced.. 60,000
Add-
£7,002,000
{Oivil Service Percentage Reduc-
tions (1903) abolished .. 76,000
Increased Charity Vote .. .. 10,000
Increased Roads Vote .. .. 20,000
Expenditure, as Estimated .. £7,108,000
That leaves a deficit of £150,000, but Irvine includes last
year’s surplus (made by annexing trust and sinking funds),


m
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE. —Horse M»d dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling- stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS.—Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING,
it®* Our CATALOGUE is pours for the asking. !ESI
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris,
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
In the case recently brought by the Wilfley Ore
Concentrator Syndicate against the Central Cookman
Gold Mining Company, the Victorian Chief Justice has
granted an injunction restraining the defendants from
making or using any concentrating table constructed in
accordance with the Wilfley specification or in colourable
imitation thereof. The sole manufacturers in Australasia
of the Wilfley Ore Concentrators are the Austral Otis
Engineering Company Limited, South Melbourne.*
• • • *
The Insurance Record (London), 31st July,
1903, writes of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society’s latest report: “ The directors’ report puts the
whole case in a nutshell, and a better statement could
hardly be desired—‘A larger new business, an increased
premium income, a higher rate of interest earned on
investments, a greater increase in funds, and a- lower
expense ratio.* ” *
* * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
• e * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been .poade at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
* • * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* • * *
With a constant sensibility of t/3000th. grain,
assayers will welcome the “Galopin” Assay Balance
(price, with weights, £21.) “It is all you claim for it,”
writes a customer to de Beer, Silberberg and Co., cf
Gasoline furnace fame, Bourke-street, Melbourne.*
• * * *
H. Brandon Skertohly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties,promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
# * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
B. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
• • • •
Thousands of pounds are yearly thrown away
because insufficient care is taken to save the extreme
fines and slimes in concentrating mills. There is only
one ore dressing machine which is unquestionably entitled
to first place as the best and surest means of saving this
material. We refer to the Luhrig Vanners, which have
proved thei^superiority on all leading mining fields and
may be seen,daily in use at the gold, silver, lead, zinc,
tin, copper and other mines where up-to-date ore dressing
is in vogue. Messrs W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne
and Sydney, are the Sole Agents, and will be pleased to
give full particulars on application.*
* * * *
GyaniJe,- Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
• • « *
Victoria Broken Hill is a show at the extreme
north end of the Broken Hill outcrop ; it carries a shoot
of ore which, no doubt, has some connection with the main
body, but has never given present shareholders a run for
their money. In the old days it was worked as the
Victoria Cross, but did no good, and wa3 abandoned for
years. On its neighbor, the North, making fair profits
during the lead boom of four or five years ago, the old
Cross was re-pegged and re-christened the Victoria Broken
Hill, mainly with the object of sweetening it up for
possible J. Bull speculators, who were offered 30,000 of
the 130,000 10s. shares, ss. paid. That was just as the
lead boom was going down with a splash ; and the co.
has been waiting impatiently for it to come up ever since.
The co. never had much capital, and even waiting costs
money, so that a long succession of calls is in prospect
now—or liquidation. The co. has secured exemption
from labor conditions whenever it could, but people are
beginning to grumble ; and it is possible that that game
will have to be abandoned. With the developments
exposed in shaft-sinking the co. might be able to do some-
thing at the top of a metal boom, or when somebody dis-
covers a way to get out twice as much metal from sul-
phides as is being extracted at present; otherwise it is
hopeless.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald,
174 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ;94 Eagle-st.,
Brisbane; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin, N Z.
and by bringing it forward to be this year’s surplus also,
he makes it appear that revenue will exceed expenditure
by £44,000. The trust funds and sinking funds are thus
used to placate Kyabram with an increased road vote and
a reduced income-tax. Next time a man like Turner
starts a Victorian sinking fund he had better arrange to
have it deposited with trustees in Denmark or France or
Belgium, or some country that has no Kyabram.
Victoria didn’t have the pluck to tell the holders
of the £5,000,000 of stock now falling due that the bill
was renewed and that that was an end of the matter. It
would have been, in some respects, the best thing to do ;
not the least of its advantages would be that it would
make it practically impossible for the State to borrow any
more money. Probably it was for precisely this reason
that Irvine wouldn’t risk the plan. Instead he gives the
holders the option of renewing on certain terms, under
which the State will pay anything between £4 and
£4 2s. 6d. percent, including the hire of the underwriters
(at 1 per cent, commission) to push the issue off and take
up any balance What Victoria offers the holders is,
briefly, this
(1) It will give them £lOB of new 30-year stock,
bearing 3$ per cent., for every £lOO they now hold, with
a bonus of 19s. per cent, per £lOO in cash representing
unearned interest; or
(2) It will give them 4 per cent. Treasury bills, repay-
able in July, 1906, and a 255. per £lOO bonus ; or
(3) It will allow the holders of these Treasury bills to
convert them into 3} per cent, stock, £lO4 for every £lOO
of bills, in 1905.
Presumably, the underwriters will take the short-dated
Treasury bills for Whatever balance they have to lift ;
and if they collect their money in 1906, then the tem-
porary accommodation will have cost Victoria about 6 per
cent, per annum. What Victoria will have to pay to get
further accommodation in 19C6, Heaven only knows. And
the year after that it will have to raise another £4,000,000,
and in the year after that again a further £2,000,000 ; and
the fact that N.S.W. and South Australia will be hunting
round at the same time for about £6,000,000 won’t tend
to improve matters.
The most cheerful feature of the situation is that
provision fora sinking fund is attached to the present con-
version—a sinking fund sufficient to wipe out the entire
debt by the time the loan falls due. Probably Irvine
could not get the issue under-written without the sinking
fund ; in which case none of the glory attaches to Irvine
—and he needs a little glory badly. Still it is not enough
to provide for sinking funds ; the important thing is to
keep them untouched, and Irvine, who has annexed
Turner’s sinking fund, isn’t likely to do that. Nor is it
much use keeping them untouched by merely borrowing
more money ; and, unless Australia takes quite a different
view of the situation from that which it adopts at present,
that is simply what will be done —the sinking fund will
merely add to the deficit, and the deficit will
go into the debt, and, by-and-bye, will be
covered up by a Joan. Up to now Australia has not
even paid all its interest out of revenue ; and when a
country does not honestly pay the interest—and especially
when it collars its trifling, largely-faked and accidental
surplus, and uses it for the purpose of remitting taxation
—there isn’t much solid ground to expect that a sinking
fund will be honestly built up.
If, however, Australia does honestly set to work
in this matter of sinking funds, the time will come when
the foreign creditor will—to a very great extent
anyway—provide the sinking fund himself. The
Commonwealth owes now, in round figures, £215,000,000,
and no doubt pretty well the whole of the loans repre-
senting this amount will have to be converted. If it
makes no honest attempt to establish and maintain
sinking funds, what has happened to Victoria now will
always he liable to happen, and even worse ; for, in spite
of all the talk, money has frequently been much dearer
than it is ac present, and probably will be again in the
future. If, on the other hand, the net debt is steadily
reduced, and its continued reduction becomes part of
Australian policy, then, instead of having to pay nearly
5 per cent, for temporary accommodation, the money will
be available for conversion purposes at probably 3 per
cent., or over 1 per cent, less than it could otherwise be
got for. In other words, once we start to deal honestly
with this matter, we will be able to renew at so much
lower a rate what loans must be renewed, that the
money-lender himself will, for all practical purposes,
provide the sinking fund. The other day, when
N.S.W. 3 per cents, maturing in 1935 were quoted at
90, Canadian 3 per cents., maturing about the same time,
were quoted at 101. Canadian loans have a sinking fund
provision ; N.S.W. loans haven’t ; and the market
judged the difference in the value of the two securities
at 11 percent. Canada’s 2$ per cents, were quoted at
the same price as Victoria’s 3 per cents.; in other words,
almost, if not quite, exclusively because of its sinking
fund, Canada could get for 2$ what Victoria had to pay
3 for ; and that was equal to the money-lender contribut-
ing $ per cent, to the sinking fund. But—and this is the
point that needs stressing—the money-lender won’t start
doing that. The start has to come from the borrower.
If he begins, then, as his security improves in value, the
interest drops.
* * * *
The South British Fire and Marine Insur-
ance Co. (Maoriland): —
Profits, less
amounts Added to Re-
August, Written off. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1893 .. £29,952 10 p.c. = £6,463 £23,489 £118,814
1894 .. 35,504 12$ „ „ 8,079 27,425 146,239
1895 .. 31,999 15 „ „ 9,694 22,305 168,544
1896 .. 11,060 15 „ „ 9,694 1,366 169,910
1897 .. 27,612 17$ „ „ 11,310 16,302 186,212
1898 .. 5,930 17$ „ ~ 11,310 180,832
1899 .. 27,560 17$ „ „ 11,310 16,250 197,082
1900 .. 39,488 20 „ „ 12,926 26,562 223,644
1901 .. 36,975 22$ „ „ 14,541 22,434 246,078
1902 .. 44,896 25 „ „ 16,157 28,739 274,817
1903 .. 43,925 25 „ ~ 16,157 27,768 302,585
With the additions now made the reserves consist of
Reserve Fund, £lBO,OOO ; Reinsurance Fund, £95,000 ;
and undivided profit £27,585. The paid-up capital is
£68,428 ; for every £1 of capital there is now over £4 Bs.
of reserves—a magnificent result. If the co. had done no
insurance business whatever during the past year the
interest would have more than earned the 25 per cent,
dividend ; interest represents, in fact, over 27$ per cent,
on the paid capital. Still, in view of Seddon’s State fire
insurance proposals, it is interesting to observe that, even
if we reckon interest as all profit, it represents only 40$
per cent, of the total profit for the year ; the other 59$
per cent, was derived from the insurance business, though
there is certainly nothing to show how much of this
was earned in M.L. On combined capital and reserves as
at the commencement of the year the return was at the
rate of £l2 18s. Bd. per cent, per annum. The co. still
hangs on to its old call liability of £1,163,304 ; it would
be much better, and make things more comfortable for
the shareholders, to reduce the nominal capital to (say)
£lOO,OOO (or even £250,000), and capitalise enough of the
undivided profit to pay it all up.
* * * *
Queensland railway results for the year ended
June 30th were not very much worse than usual ; they
couldn’t be. Some comparative figures follow
Gross Expenses’to Amount of
Earnings. Earnings, Earned Interest
percent. P er cent Deficient.
1894 .. £955,747 62-61 2TB £324,800
1895 .. 1,025,512 5675 2’68 245,000
1896 .. 1,085,494 59-36 2'63 246,000
1897 .. 1,179,273 58'01 2'87 201,900
1898 .. 1,215,811 56'43 2'92 204,500
1899 .. 1,373,475 5774 3 75 158,800
1900 .. 1,464,399 64 7 8 2'67 260,800
1901 .. 1,316,936 80'34 1-31 527,900
1902 .. 1,382,179 71-82 1-93 449 946
1903 .. 1,234,230 69 75 1-82 494,128
The earlier figures in the last column are approximate
only, but are near enough for any practical purpose. In
10 years the railway revenue has fallen short of paying
interest by £3,113,774. Had the railways been built,
little by little, out of revenue they could, during this
period, have paid into a sinking fund for replacement an
average of not quite 2$ per cent. As it is, built out of
loans, they have been able to pay nothing into a sinking-
fund, but have involved an annual average deficit of over
£3lo,ooo—a deficit which has been mostly, if not all, con-
verted into loans and passed on for a future generation to
}»ay. So the prospect ahead of the future generation is
ust this
(1) It will have all the original cost of the railways to
pay.
(2) It will have to pay a great quantity of accumulated
arrears of interest, represented by new loans.
(3) It will have to pay a larger and larger amount for
new lines, as the old ones, represented by the original
debt and the interest arrears, wear out.
It seems rather probable that the next generation will
say unkind things about its predecessor.
« * * *
The Provident and Industrial Insurance
00., of Maoriland (life assurance)
_ . , Expenses Total Carried to D
Claims, and Divi- Out- Assurance it
June, Income - dends. going. Fund. nclt ’
1897 £509
1898.. £8,673 £2530 £7837 £10,367 2203
1899.. 9,177 2835 6462 9,297 2323
1900 .. 9,797 2936 6195 9,131 £666 1657
£6O capital forfeited carried to Deficit 1597
1901 .. 10,738 3332 6205 9,537 1201 396
Assurance
Fund.
1902 .. 12,237 8907 7231 11,138 1099 703
£2O forfeited capital apparently carried to Fund 723
1903 .. 13,472 3988 7791 11,779 1693 2416
The co., however, claims to have an assurance fund of
£7725 ; but that amount is really made up in this way
Assurance Fund as above £2416
Property—Added paper value _ .. .. 3240
Expenses not charged, but carried forward
as an asset 2069
Total alleged Assurance Fund .. > . .. £7725
There ia some excuse, though not a very good one, for a
new company to defer the charging of preliminary
expenses, on the ground that much of the outlay in the
first year or two on advertising and shoe leather, and the
wear and tear of tongue, will only bear fruit in the sub-
sequent years; but there is no excuse whatever in the
case of the Provident and Industrial, which is 14 years
old. If this co., is justified in pursuing this course,
then the M.L. State Life Assurance Department
would be justified in swelling its assets in the
same way by about a quarter of a million, and the
A.M.P. would be justified in including a goodwill item of
a million or more. The only cheerful feature of the
situation is that the co. is steadily, though slowly, reduc-
ing the amount. The other exceedingly doubtful item,
claimed as an asset, represents a sudden increase
which took place in the alleged value of the co.’s
property a few years ago —an increase of about
300 per cent. There is unfortunately nothing in
law to prevent the co. now multiplying the figures
by two, and claiming an assurance-fund of £10,965
instead of £7725. But the real assurance-fund—the real
security to the insurers—will stay just where it
was in spite of all exercises in aritfimetic. In
N.S.W., Premier See is “considering” whether such
exercises ought to be allowed; and Premier Seddon,
who is a poorer considerer but a better doer than his
mainland brother, has a chance to get in first with a
measure saying that they are illegal, and providing at
the same time for a periodical State appraisement of
securities.
Certainly the Provident and Industrial ia
making a little better progress than hitherto. It never
added so much to its real assurance fund before. Its
expense rate is still, however, extremely high, and has
been lower: —
Expenses in Proportion to Income.
1898 .. .. £9O 7 3 1901 .. .. £57 15 8
1899 .. .. 70 8 3 1902 .. .. 59 1 10
1900 .. .. 63 4 8 1903 .. .. 57 16 7
The amount which the co. is pledged by its policies
to pay is not disclosed ; when the amount was last
mentioned it was about £140,000. To meet that the
assui'anee fund is £2416, which is equal to 4d. in
the £. Even the weird 1.0. F. can show a little better
than that; while the A.M.P. can show 7s. 3d., and the
younger M.L. State Life Department 6s. 4d. A co.
which, after 14 years, has only accumulated 4d. in the £
of the liabilities to which it is pledged, but which still
pays its shareholders 5 per cent., does not seem to have
much to recommend it to the public, and especially a
public that has a M.L. State Life Assurance Department
knocking at its door.
* 9ft * *
Notice posted on his shop-window by a depart-
ing Sydney lolly and ice-cream man ;
No British shopkeeper can get a living in King-street,
and we had to clear out to make room for more
Dagos.
Late Tenant.
* * * *
A.W.M.: This paper isn’t fond of Jenkins
Iscariot, but it isn’t going to jump on him for insisting
that, before £ for £ subsidy for oil-boring is granted, the
Govt. Geologist shall report on the area, and that the co.
shall have a respectable amount of capital actually paid
up. Instead of jumping on him this paper is going to
say that, for once in a waj', Jenkins has done the right
thing J.A.B. : Conditionally held land is private land
for the purposes of the Mining on Private Lands Act.
The Amending Act of 1902 extended the latter’s pro-
visions to conditionally leased land Ajax : Don’t know
the show ; the manager-cum-broker ha 3 been connected
with a number of wildcats in the district.
* * * *
The Australian Alliance Assurance Co.
(which to its life, fire, marine and fidelity business now
proposes to again add accident insurance) has in the past
capitalised £75,000 of its profits, and, by tacking this
amount on to the original £50,000, has made a 40 per
cent, dividend appear as one of l 6 per cent. In what
follows the amount of the dividend is computed upon the
capital put up by the shareholders :
Share-
Dividends on Written
Profits. £50,000 Capital Off. and Re-
Aug., serves.
1892.. £282,341
1893..£22,748 40 per cent. = £20,000 285,089
1894.. 16,230 40 „ „ 20,000 £22,972 258,347
1895.. 9,304 27$ „ „ 13,750 1,335 252,566
£18,874 Life Branch Surplus Added to Reserves 271,440
1896.. 19,865 30 per cent. = 15,000 10,654 265,651
1897.. 11,850 30 „ „ 15,000 14,790 247,711
Loss.
1898,. 14,974 15 „ „ 7,500 439 224,798
£9236 Life Branch Surplus Added to Reserves 234,034
Profits.
1899.. 18,044 25 per cent. = 12,500 14,18:. 225,398
1900.. 14,779 25 „ „ 12,500 6,581 221,094
1901.. 12,634 25 „ „ 12,500 997 220,231
1902.. 13,593 25 „ „ 12,500 46 221,278
1903.. 7,415 25 „ „ 12,500 216,193
This co. has got into the habit of declaring extravagant
dividends, and it apparently can’t shake the habit off
even when the dividend is hardly more than half earned.
In the past 10 years it has earned £108,740, and has paid
away in dividends £133,750, notwithstanding that it has
been found necessary to write off £71,996. And even
then it is extremely doubtful whether the writings-off
have been adequate, inasmuch as the bulk of the assets
held against shareholders’ funds and assurance fund com-
bined are still taken in at either cost or book value ; and
these book-value assets include such lines as “ real estate
(in Victoria) £76,331,” and “money lent on mortgage,
£239,oo2’’—assets which, in Victoria especially, have had
the wasting disease badly during the past few years. The
dividends have been absurdly high even if there has been
no shrinkage of value among the assets ; if, as is far
more likely, there has been a serious shrinkage, then the
dividends have been even more riotous. Anyway, com-
bining the dividends and such writings-off as there have
been, the total in the past 10 years has been provided in
this way ;
Net Profits £108,740
Life Branch Surpluses .. .. .. 28,110
Taken from Reserves 68,896
Total Dividends and Writings Off £205,746
Very little new business is now coming to the
life department; in fact, only three small policies were
issued during the year. The record in this department
recently has been as follows:
Receipts. Outgoings. Total
a. , ’
Premiums. Interest. Claims. Expenses. Fund.
1896 .. £20,800 £11,033 £30,604 £4065 £280,328
1897 .. 21,029 10,717 23,111 4177 284,786
1898 .. 17,921 10,965 27,100 4158 282,414
£9236 written off 273,178
1899 .. 16,957 10,794 24,044 3731 273,154
1900 .. 14,900 9,448 33,568 3761 260,173
1901 .. 14,340 10,416 31,237 3914 249,778
1902 .. 25,625 10,340 25,531 2743 257,469
1903 .. 11,555 10,170 38,701 3205 237,288
The figures for 1902 were inflated apparently by the pur-
chase of a number of policies which had nearly matured
(probably the remnant of the policies issued by the old
Australasian Co., with which the Alliance has had inti-
mate relations for years). In that year 43 new policies,
assuring £20,628, were issued in return for £12,561 re-
ceived ; and these figures point to some such transaction.
So far as ordinary business goes, then, there has not been
during the past year the extraordinary slump which
appears on the surface. On the figures issued 12 months
ago it looked as though the co. was going vigorously into
life business again ; but apparently it isn’t—it is going
into the accident business instead, notwithstanding that
some recent experiences in that line have been far from
pleasant.
* * * *
A very curious concern now said to be maturing
in Sydney is called “ The Reference Co. Limited.” When
you become a subscriber to it, it allots you a registered
number —say 2765 A.Z. That is your number thereafter,
just as if you were a Sydney tramcar. The idea is that
when you buy lib. of pork sausages you stick on the most
conspicuous sausage your registered number, supplied by
the co. Then if you happen to make an afternoon call on
Potts Point, and’ forget to bring the sausages away, or
if they get tired of waiting and trot off on their
own, you ring up the co., and the co. sends out
its expert sausage-recoverer, and doesn’t charge you
more than bare expenses for its trouble. But
it does not stop at tracking live stock and umbrellas
and the like. As it explains in its prospectus, you can
stamp your registered number on your underwear, and if
you happen to drop any of it you can still be happy in
the knowledge that the co. has its under-wear sleuth-
hound scouring the country for the missing article.
“ The recovery of the article lost becomes the concern of
the c 0.,” says the prospectus, “ and the subscriber is re-
lieved of ali anxiety and trouble.” Between times, not
being any small-minded concern, it hopes to turn an honest
penny by putting up gum-tree vapor in glass bottles and
selling it for the cure of consumption. There are to be
5000 shares in the co.; and the promoters show their
faith in the enterprise by taking half of them fully paid.
But it strikes this paper that, what with the
police and the newspapers, there are already enough
agencies for finding things, and that what is really wanted
is an organisation which will lose things. There is a demand
for one that will lose the young woman next door who
has got up to “ The Maiden’s Prayer ” and sticks there ;
also one that will lose the neighbor’s dog that howls at
11p.m.; and the push, and the Owe’Sullivan, and the
Public Debt, and Dan O’Connor’s whiskers, and the smell
out of the Yarra, and the Tired Feeling. The co. might
be called Losers Limited, and be run in conjunction with
the co. for finding things. Also, if there was a branch
which supplied feasible explanations, excuses, alibis,
characters, and the like, there would be money in it.
Likewise, a dog-washing department should be seriously
considered. The lack of a place where your dog can be
washed and dried expeditiously prevents many people
keeping a dog, and often makes the dog very dirty and
unkempt about the tail when it is kept.
* • * m
The Permanent Trustee Co. of New South
Wales (Sydney), for 10 years past:
Carried to Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1894 .. £764 £764 £7BB
1895 .. 1008 4 per cent. = £lOOO 8 796
1896 .. 1034 4 „ „ 1000 34 830
1897 .. 1672 5 „ „ 1250 422 1252
1898 .. 2249 5 „ „ 1250 999 2251
1899 .. 2807 5 „ „ 1250 1557 3808
1900 .. 1700 5 „ „ 1250 450 4258
1901 .. 2074 6 „ „ 1500 574 4832
1902 .. 2302 6 „ „ 1500 802 5634
1903 .. 3939 8 „ „ 2000 1939 7573
This is by far the co.’s best year to date; on the share-
holders’ funds, as at the commencement of the year
(£25,000 capital and £5634 reserves), the profit was equal
to £l2 17s. 2d. per cent. And, owing to the remarkable
increase in the volume of trust business, the outlook is
also excellent; the progress during the past four years,
in the matter of estates in hand, has been as follows
1899 .. £1,230,958 I 1902 .. £1,552,419
1900 .. 1,350,258 1903 .. 2,279,609
1901 .. 1,365,337 |
The co. lumps its interest and commission earnings to-
gether, so it is impossible to tell what its investments
(which consist of loans on mortgage) are yielding.
• * * •
Kyabram professes to be imbued with the spirit
of self-reliance and economy ; it professes to have a horror
of “ socialistic legislation ” and enterprises, on the ground
that they destroy this spirit of self-reliance, and lead men
to lean too much upon the State. But what a hollow
fraud Kyabram’s profession is was never better illustrated
than by a return, compiled from the State’s Statistical
Register, which shows how much the Victorian shires
and country boroughs, Kyabram’s birthplace and strong-
hold, paid during the past seven years in local rates, and
to what extent they loafed upon the State. In these
seven years to the end of 1901 Rodney, the very centre of
Kyabramism, taxed itself to the extent of £14,178; the
rest of its total revenue of £20,231 came to it from the
State and in the shape of license fees, &c. But Rodney,
sturdy beggar and highwayman though it is, is a model
of the virtues it preaches compared with some others.
Here are a sample eight or ten :
Taxed Loafed on
Themselves. the State.
Alexandra .. .. £7,050 .. £7,712
Bairnsdale .. .. 14,843 .. 13,168
Bright .. .. 5,584 .. 8,397
Healesville .. .. 2,736 .. 4,579
Howqua .. .. 1,832 .. 6,857
Mansfield .. .. 8,586 .. 8,977
Omeo 10,694 .. 22,276
Orbost .. .. 6,256 .. 9,034
Tambo .. .. 4,941 .. 7,125
Toowong .. .. 16,628 .. 20,589
£78,150 .. £108,714
So these 10 highwaymen, filled with the Kyabram spirit
of self-reliance, paid towards their own upkeep and the
improvement of their own property £78,150, while they
bailed up the general public for £108,714. The economy
which they have made their watchword, consists, in brief,
of taxing themselves as little as possible and everybody
else as much as possible. That they should set their faces
resolutely against working people “ leaning on the State”
seems in the circumstances natural enough ; they are
quite able to themselves do all the leaning that the
State can stand. Altogether, Kyabram bears a striking
resemblance to the villain of one of Bland Holt’s melo-
dramas, who, there not being enough wealthy heroine to
go all round, trumps up a charge against the hero, and
has the wealth and the heroine all to himself for awhile.
But Bland Holt’s audiences would howl if things were
left at that; and so will Victoria before long.
* » * *
An indefinite controversy regarding the 1.0. F.
Insurance concern has been dragging along in Sydney D.T.
and S.M.H. for along while. Neither paper ever refers
directly to the other, or quotes just what the other said
before proceeding to make holes in it, so that part of
the public which wasn’t interested in the matter at the
beginning didn’t have much chance to get interested in
it later on. The Herald opened with some remarks on a
recent Bulletin computation that the Red Indian Order
had accumulated about sd. in the £of the total amount
of its policies. The D.T. argued that the Red Indian
needn’t accumulate much because very few of the policies
mature. In other words, because an enormous proportion
of the insured get disgusted with the outlook and drop
out, sacrificing all they have paid in, and thereby im-
prove the outlook for those who do remain in, therefore
the outlook in general needn’t be improved. This is
about as sensible as to suggest that passenger steamers
need only carry lifeboats to accommodate a third of
those _on board, because the other two-thirds will
commit suicide to avoid being drowned. The society
which works on the assumption that it will only
have to pay a small part of the debts that it contracts
to pay, and therefore only provides enough for that small
part, isn’t a desirable society to do business with. The
small insured, to whom the 1.0. F. almost exclusively
appeals, is, however, little concerned with the daily
papers’dull and inconclusive dissertations upon “actuarial
valuations of maturity values,” and so on. Just a few
things he is interested in—these, for instance :
(1) The 1.0. F., when its debts and assets were last
valued, showed a huge deficiency. Its last balance-sheet
(1902) showed that it had accumulated less than Od. per
£ of the amount of its policies. The A.M.P. has
accumulated 7s. 3d. ; and its last valuation disclosed a
large surplus.
(2) The 1.0. F. policy has no surrender value Failure
(from whatever cause) to pay one premium involves for-
feiture of all money already paid. Far more policies
lapse than become claims through the death of the
insured.
(3) The 1.0. F. professes to insure for lower premiums
than most other societies. But the 1.0. F. charges
“court dues” in addition to premiums; and, for the
small insured, these make the 1.0. F. (with a deficit) more
expensive than, say, the A.M.P. (with a surplus).
(4) The A.M.P. insures a man of 25 for £lOO, without
profits, for £ll3s. 7d. a year. The charges in the 1.0. F.
amount to £1 16s. 6d. per year. And while the A.M.P.
has on hand £36 6s. in every £lOO to pay claims with if
every policyholder fell dead to-morrow, the 1.0. F. has
under £2 10s.
Compared with these, the other things which the S.M.H.
and the D.T. have been talking about in their vague way
are not of much practical consequence.
(Continued on page SO.)


w«r
Panama Hats
MEN'S
GENUINE,
FOLDER, FINE GRADE,
• HAND SELECTED,
UNBLEACHED
PANAMA HATS^
PRICES— 19 / 6f 37/6
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
GEORGE and BARRACK STS., SYDNEY
3?
'mwm
'WV%.
mo
er.
From Fashion’s Domain,
THE NEW^>
P-D
..CORSETS..
The Leading Shapes
In Straight - F ronted Corsets.
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATION 3.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on
band inside, as illustrated.
Obtainable from leading Drapers everywhere.
Society
S.M. Herald (2/10/’O3) printed this in the
personal column:
JJ'IFTY-SIX.—“ How long, Oh Lord, how long.”
Advertisements of this sort come through boasting
of the paper’s tremendous circulation.
SHOP-WORN.
“ And you wouldn't like to change your sister
for a nice new bicycle .”
“ Don't think I could—mother's used her for
more than a week.”
The casual, tired
Australian again. A
witness at Melb. Coroner’s
Court lately admitted he
didn’t know whether his own son had a second
name or not. Another person, feeling weary,
lately lay down alongside the line near Tynong
(Gippsland) and fell asleep. He won’t be quite
so casual in future, an engine having removed one
of his feet.
* * * *
The Sultan of Johore's two female type-
writers, whom he recruited in Australia, have been
blocked at Singapore. They reached there in
the steamer Clitus, under the chaperonage of
Captain Daud, aide-de-camp to the Sultan, and
Mrs. Daud (a white woman whom the colored
gentleman married in Melbourne). Then, when
almost in sight of the Promised Land which basks
in the reflected glare of Mr. Johore’s artifical
gold teeth, the steamer was boarded by certain
Government authorities, and the two young
women, who were described by the local brown
paper as “more than ordinarily pretty and
fashionably dressed,” were prevented from going
further. The girls expressed great indignation at
being interfered with, and professed their anxiety
to get along to Joliore. It was at the instance of
their parents in Australia that they were stopped,
these parents having heard that the climate of
Johore, especially when aggravated by the re-
flected glare of the famous teeth, isn’t healthy.
Sydney Eight Hours procession this year
flaunted one banner which looked remarkably
like a challenge to the Birth-rate Commission. On
one side was shown “ The worker’s home as it is ”
—a miserable room, ill-furnished, with a bareoup-
board and the poor worker and his wife sur-
rounded by eight hungry children. On the other
side appeared ‘ ‘ The worker’s home as it should
be” —a well-furnished room, chicken and beer on
the table, husband and wife plump and pleasantly
adorned, and tivo children in pink “pinnies” and
blue sashes. The banner may not have been
intended to argue the difference between two
children and eight, but it looked very muoh as if
that were the idea.
* • • •
The Australian High Court, The Bulletin
is sorry to note, began its proceedings in wig and
gown; and a wigged and gowned court it will
now remain for years—a court so uncertain as to
its inherent dignity and its personal right to
respect that it must advertise its honorablenesa
with horse-hair, and its learning with the fluffy
substance off the “wild rabbi’” and the sort of
trimming that the little girl wears on her pinny.
But if only the court had painted its honorable
countenance red, and stuck a big feather in its
honorable but borrowed hair, and opened the
court with an axe, this paper would have forgiven
it the millinery for the sake of the picturesqueness.
* * * *
A clerical correspondent to Sydney D.T.,
discussing the difficulty of securing Anglican
clergymen of the right stamp, is charmingly
candid:
The question is not one of the dearth of candidates,
but of the dearth of suitable candidates for Holy Orders.
In every 100 young men taken at random there will be
a certain percentage of those who are naturally piously
inclined. Also, in the same hundred, there will be a per-
centage of the intellectually vigorous. The difficulty
lies in the fact that the individuals in each percentage
are not identical—indeed, occasionally they are antagon-
istic. Young men of pious aspirations, thank God, are
fairly numerous. Young men of pious aspirations, plus
good brain power, are comparatively few.
And he goes on to point out that brains combined
with education can command a good money price
which they don’t get in clerical life ; so his final
mournful conclusion is that—since the extra pious
youth is often a fool or nearly so, and the brainy
youth isn’t pious—the Anglican church must con-
sent to reduce the standard of its clergy and be
satisfied with somebody closer to the Salvation
Army type. But when a church gets down to a
practical acknowledgment that it appeals chiefly
to fools, and that its only hope is to pay such
salaries as will induce intellectual men to profess
to be pious, or else to take non-intellectual men
who are really pious, that church has struck a
very sizeable snag.
In Broken Hill, where two boating acci-
dents have lately happened, and a man has been
drowned, the corporation has just received this
letter from an enraged meteorologist:
Gwydir Observatory, Nicotine Hill, Moree.—To His
Reverence, Mare and Aldermen, Broken Hill: Beloved
brethren, from the drought I delivered yee, and yet have
I received no reward. Beware ! Some few weeks ago I
sent you my forecast, and, as you are well aware, cor
rectly predicted when you would have rain. Now,
brethren, as my studdies have cost me and my family a
power of money and valuable time, I think I am entitled
to some consideration at your hands, and have been
expecting a handsome cheque from you for the
valuable information. I am the man you want in
that dirty hole of Broken Hill, so send me a decent
cheque and my expenses, and I will take a trip over and
give you my calculations on your climatic influences over
the climatic elements of your universal gravity. lam
not like other astronomers, thank God. I don’t wait till
rain falls, &c. You have a wealthy' and valuable district,
second to none in China, and with my information, you
ought to be the principal city in Australia, if you only
preserved your water when it came.—Yours watingly,
Charles A. Taylor.
Six months ago Broken Hill would have grovelled
to a rain-maker whose spelling was even worse
than that, but since it had two boating accidents
the slag-haunted town has become haughty, and it
sent no cheque.
LITERALLY ,
Extract from Jim’s letter: “When I last saw poor Bill
he was looking very down in the mouth.”— Queensland
Item.
That quaint old myth about the “Jen-
nings millions ” still makes a certain amount of
unsteady progress, though a lengthy explanation
recently published in Sydney Fkeeman’s Joubnal
dropped a heavy wet blanket upon it. According
to this explanation, the Jennings pile has never
been in Chancery at all. Jennings died in 179.1 —
104 years ago—and his nearest relative entered
into possession of the pile the same year. The
only possible hope of getting the present owners
to disgorge lies in proving that this heir of 104
years ago was illegitimate, and considering how
difficult it is to prove the pedigree of yesterday’s
dog, this struggle to disprove the pedigree of the
heir of century before last seems pathetically
hopeless. It was tried unsuccessfully in 1867, and
the case was kicked out of court in 1880, and now,
in 1903, more good “splosh ” is going to be thrown
after bad. It would be better to put the money
into “Tatt.’s.”
The case of Butler, the Ryde (N.S.W.)
youth, who looks about 18, and against whom a
death-sentence has been recorded for putting
poison in the jug of the girl who had ceased to
“ walk out ” with hint, contains quite a number of
moral lessons for the young. One is that, just as
no statue should be raised to a man till at least 20
years after he is dead, so no man should start to
put poison in the jug of the girl who has ceased to
walk out with him till at least two years after she
has ceased to walk out. If, after two years, his
hatred is still so active that he feels he must
do something dreadful, then he may as well
do it, but the chances are that he will
have forgotten even what color her hair is
by that time. Anyhow, he is less likely to
be suspected after two years, and the police are
less likely to find out where he bought the poison,
and the girl may die in the interval, and after all
there is a lot of satisfaction to be got out of
looking forward for two years to killing your
enemy, even if you change your mind in the end
and let the thing drop. There is a proverb some-
where that revenge is a dish to be eaten cold,
which proverb isn’t quite true; the dish is better
frozen. Butler’s case also shows the evils of a
fussy disposition. Believing himself to be sus-
pected he should have worn a calm exterior,
joined the Y.M C. A., and walked out with
another girl. Instead, he clenched the suspicion
by telling a too-elaborate tale about how
he had seen another man putting _ the
poison in the jug at the dead of night,
ft isn’t at all likely that the death sentence will
be carried out in Butler’s case; he seems much
more like a victim of bad melodrama than a
serious assassin. But his case is a warning to the
young amateur slayer. If he had consulted any
elderly and experienced murderer the utter
futility of his methods would have been pointed
out to him at once.
* * * *
A topic lately ruled out of order by the
president of a Sydney debating society: “Whether
are parsons or lawyers the greater curse to
Australia ? ”
Thestupid,
cruel, disas-
trous effects of
the “System”
were never bet-
terexemplified
than in the
case of a man
charged with
vagrancy, at
Melbourne
City Court
lately. Ac-
cused, the
wreck of a
once fine-look-
ing man, had
for some time
been wander-
ing round the
city lanes pick-
ing up butts
and scraps of
food. Though
fit for work, he
seemed unable
to make the
effort to look for it, and was given “twelve
months.” Yet his only previous conviction was
a Queensland one of three years, for conspiracy
during the ’9l strike. A little holp and a little
effort might possibly make him something like
the plucky, resourceful fighter he was before the
trouble—but the accursed System has eaten into
his soul.
* * * *
When a Federal capital was prematurely
born in Sydney D.T., and its name was called
Tumut, the birth was cabled to Europe, and thence
to America, and the message was responsible for
some saddening results. Nobody knew anything
about Tumut; half of the papers therefore
accented it on the second syllable, and made
the obvious and ghastly joke that they didn’t
know “tew much” about the place, while the
other half accented it on the first syllable, and set
out to make rhymes about it. Even Laboueliere’s
Truth was guilty of thi 3, and more :
How can a State be ever famed
That has a capital thus named?
How can it gain Ambition’s Summit
By means of laws proclaimed at Tumut?
Fitness and euphony agree
That Tumut should not, must not be.
They couldn’t be expected to know that it was
in Bill Lyne’s electorate and therefore had to be,
• • * *
About the slowness of the law :
The Law in Melbourne, in the persons of certain
honorariums, lately had a considerable bout with an ill*
regulated person of violent manners, and so far has got
considerably the worst of it. The gentleman was being
sued for a horse alleged to be illegally detained, or the
value thereof. The Court inquired as to the whereabouts
of the horse, and was promptly requested to mind its
own business. The Law glared fiercely for a moment,
then rose in its majesty and threatened to commit for
contempt if its question were not answered forthwith.
The defendant told it to go and boil its ear, or something
like that. Instead of standing to his guns, the beak
weakly argued with this contemptuous person, and finally
persuaded him to be reasonable. He was ordered to
return the horse, and left the court, advising plaintiff
to go and get work. A week later the Court charge sheet
was pretty nearly filled with this contumacious person’s
name. He hadn’t returned the horse, but he had gone
round to plaintiff’s house with a sizeable waddy, and
there battered the said plaintiff, his wife, son and
mother-in-law, and had finished by wrecking a sideboard,
a dinner set of 70 pieces, two tea sets, a clock, an over-
mantel, a decanter and other decorations. It was a
notable smash, and threatened to outdo even the burst-
ing of a boom bank. The Law ordered him to pay, in
fines, costs and damages, £52 15s. 6d., or go to gaol for
six months, but as he didn’t appear, and had left the
State before the slow machinery of the statutes got into
motion, there is very little satisfaction for plaintiff in all
this.
FATE.
“oh, -I Just my luck to get bowled first ball
when she comes to see the game.”
The union of the churches was said by
some speakers in the Presbytery to mean the
extinction of the individual life, and Dill-Ms Cvy
arose in rebuff:
He had been married for 21 years, and he was tolerably
certain that he wa3 not extinguished. Similarly, if the
Presbyterian Church took the Methodist Church to wife,
it would not involve the extinction of either party.
If Dill’s jokes were only half as good as his calvM
he would either have much better jokes or much
worse calves.
THE SPORT OF KINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“London, Oct. I.—The Czar and the Emperor Francis
Joseph are hunting chamois on the Murzsteg,. in the
North Styrian Alps. Their Imperial Majesties are pro-
tected by an immense police force. The Ozar looks deli-
cate and wearied and worried.”— Cablegram.
Gay times are these for an Emperor,
And the golden prime of things,
When hunting goats—with an army corps—-
Is the modern Sport of Kings.
The Kaiser mild excitement scorns :
On the rugged Styrian Alps,
With his friend the Ozar he hunts for horns—
While their subjects hunt for scalps.
For Paskiewitch the patriot Pole,
And Schezahzsty the Czech
Are out on the Alps with the Slovak Gzoll
And the Magyar Tanoschek.
And Kietshievaleff, with his gun full-cock,
Is looking along the sight;
And Nihiloff waits behind a rock
With a cake of dynamite.
The chamois tosses his horns elate,
As from rock to rock he springs,
“ It is good to be goats,” he says to his mate—
“ There’s no close season for Kings ! ”
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.
THE TALISMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are loads in the hurly-burly
Hard for a body to thole ;
And a woman’s feckless fingers
Win only a feckless dole.
When the moonbeams glint through the roses
I kneel by the white bedside,
And I kiss him—once for the bairnie,
And twice for the man who died.
There are passion flowers by the wayside,
Bonny and red to see ;
There’s a weird on the lonely pathway
Grim for a woman to dree ;
Yet I grip the wee hand firmly,
And aye at the eventide
I kiss him - once for the bairnie,
And twice for the man who died.
N.S.W.
JOHN OAREW.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
m
0>
OUSNESS . im*
V 1 * and a Troubles.
■Some unique evidence was given in a
recent Maoriland divorce-case. The co-respon-
•aent, a debt-collector and money-lender in a small
■way, promised a casual laborer work if his wife
brought along her children and kept house for him
;and paid him for the board of the youngsters.
The work was timber-cutting five miles away,
and when the husband returned at week-end he
was charged 6d. each for his meals. At settling-
up the couple proved to be in the money-lender’s
debt, and he collared their scraps of furniture.
The husband was banished from the house, but
the woman stayed on to do some washing. It was
a tremendous wash, and a dozen demands, extend-
ing over a couple, of months, that she should be
handed back elicited, the reply that the wash
wasn’t finished. Evidence of misconduct was
forthcoming about this time. Transpired that so
keen was the business instinct in the co-respon-
dent that when he lent his lady love 10s. he
demanded her wedding-ring as security, stipulat-
ing that she could get it back for 12s. 6d. He
also admitted in court that he had been fined for
not sending his children to school, and for punch-
ing a man on the nose, and for something else, but
had gone to gaol rather than pay. The jury ex-
pressed its feelings by fixing the damages at £125.
THE WEARINESS OF IT.
MISSUS: “ What'll ye have? Roast pork, boiled
pork, stewed pork, or bacon? ”
FENOERr (who has had pork every meal for the last
five weeks): “ Think I'll have some rum if
there's no pork in it.”
• England’s Open Door policy produces
• all manner of results. One of them is an influx of
i monks—those useless but well-meaning individuals
' who pray a great deal, and wear long skirts and
• quaint hats, and hang out in monkeries. In 1838
there were in England 16 convents and not one
’ monastery; now there are 635 convents and 283
i monk emporiums. Practically the whole of these
represent an influx from Continental Europe.
Catholic countries like France, Spain, Austria,
Italy and Portugal are ejecting the monk on the
I ground that he is a non-producer, a sort of pious
'coupon, a brown blot on the landscape, and a
irelic of the dark ages. And England, which takes
(everybody in, either commercially or literally, is
ttaking him in also.
* * * *
Melbourne University has decided to
•'abolish its regulation exempting would-be
(graduates from compulsory attendance at lectures.
You used to be able to take a Melbourne
University degree from the N.S.W. backblocks
if you had the required amount of knowledge.
•Australians can still get a London University
•degree without attending that or any other
University. It is a silly, retrograde idea that a
auan, even if he knows enough to get the degree
itwice over, shouldn’t be allowed to go up for
•examination unless he has acquired his informa-
tion at a certain place.
* * • *
Adelaide Supreme Court has sat heavily
on a man who dared to file a suit for breach of
promise of marriage against a lady :
His Honor said that proceedings of that kind were not
encouraged by the Court. If a man thought himself
injured as alleged he should bear it as a man, and not
parade it before the community.
Just so. But the Supreme Court is supposed to
be a place of business—not sentiment. And
suppose a weak, yielding woman of sft. lOin. has
broken the heart of a man of sft. 3in., and he
simply can't bear it in the manly, upstanding way
his Honor suggests, then if the law won’t hear his
case there is obviously nothing for it but to shoot
the lady.
On October 1 there came into force a
Maoriland Marine Department regulation which
required that all passenger ships should have their
lifeboats provided with an adequate supply of
provisions, water, &c. The Elingamite disaster
showed that, although the present law requires
that every steamer shall carry enough boats to
suffice for all on board, there is a great lack of any
law to provide for the sustenance of the castaways.
No one can rely on provisioning the boats at the
last moment; disaster sometimes comes so sud-
denly that there is no last moment worth men-
tioning. In the Elingamite case almost every-
body got .away in the boats, but the tragedy only
began then. When the Australian Parliament
gets to work on its Navigation Bill this matter
should be kept carefully in mind.
* * * *
Be the little sombre-looking stone church
built in 1843, within the grounds of Toxteth Park,
by the old-time solicitor George Allen, and now
being demolished. When the estate was cut up
and sold, the Allen family handed the church and
site over to the Methodist body, as that sect
had always supplied the pulpit. When George
Allen built the church for family purposes, all
Protestants were welcomed, and the services were
of a hybrid character. George Allen, born in
1800, arrived in N.S.W. in 1816, and was admitted
an attorney in 1822—the first admitted in Aus-
tralia. He was a member of the Leg. Council at
his death, and was the father of George Wigram
Allen, Speaker of the N.S.W. Assembly—a man
who lent much money to Parkes. This original
Allen died in ’77.
• • • •
Barrier Miner advt. :
TATANTED, Housekeeper, aged about 20. Apply 10
*’ o’clock Sunday morning. Begar Balooch, Lane-
street, North Broken Hill, next Sperber’s Brickkilns.
A fine chance for some white girl of about 20 to
keep house for Balooch at Broken Hill.
* * * *
The City Council of Adelaide is at issue
with a body calling itself “ The National Council
of Women.” The N.C. sent a memorial to the
C.C. urging “ that the city squares should be
better lighted, so as to minimise immorality.” A
correspondence followed. Now the N.C. publicly
complains that the replies of the C.C. were “flip-
pant,” and Mayor Cohen, being interrogated by
Councillor Isaacs, denies that they were anything
of the kind. In justice to Cohen, Isaacs, and
their tribe, it must be said that they are seldom
flippant on the subject of immorality in squares.
• * * ♦
The latest venturesome female with a pen-
chant for pant 3 has transpired at Timaru (M.L.).
She disappeared, and search was made for her
everywhere. Yet for three months the lady, dis-
guised as a boy, drove a milk chariot into town
daily, and supplied her most intimate friends with
cow substance.
• • • •
The absurd idea of the Divine right of kings
still survives in Britain, and showsdtself in many
curious ways—quite clearly in the recent
decision of King Ned that the Victorian
Order is to rank above the Distinguished
Service Order. The D.S.O. is given
for gallant service in the field. The
V.O. is the reward of personal service
to the Sovereign, and is liable to
be given to the man who presses
the King’s pants satisfactorily, as it
has been given to the German ca-
terer who looked after the Duke of
Connaught’s stomach during his
last Indian tour. To curl the King’s
whiskers nicely is counted a nobler
act than a gallant deed in war.
The Commonwealth Judges will, when
holding court in Sydney, sit at Darlinghurst. The
old Criminal Court, lately re-modelled, is the
historic court of Australia. The premises were
originally at the head of King-street, but in 1842
business was transfered to Darlinghurst. The
gaols in George-street were emptied, and men and
women in chains were marched up to the new
address, the idea being to keep criminals, their
trials, and their punishments under one roof.
Some of Australia’s worst ruffians and its best
Judges and its ablest advocates were asso-
ciated with the Darlinghurst structure. Burton,
Martin, Stephen; Lowe, Aspinall, Dailey; Knatch-
bull, Bertrand, O’Farrell—mention of the court
calls up memories of those and others.
* * * *
In spite of all that has been written and
said to the contrary, the position at Outtrim (Vic.)
coal mines is just about the same as ever. The
contempt for Boyd’s blacklegs is increasing, if any-
thing. The better class of shopkeepers decline to
do business with them, and even the churches
have no use for them. Recently the Salvarmy
congregation left in a body when two blacklegs
entered the hall. No blackleg is allowed to be-
come a soldier of the Salvarmy; if one was
admitted the hallelujah band would drop its
tambourine on the spot and declare publicly that
it didn’t care whether Booth’s soul was lost or not.
HOPE NOT.
“If have just been godfather to a child; and what
do you think I gave it? ”
“ I hope you didn't give it your men mug.”
J. C. Maynard, retiringUnder-Secretary for
Public Instruction in N.S.W., was presented with
a gold watch and chain from the Public Instruction
Department, which seems to be the worst of all
for the cadging disease. Yet there is a special
departmental rule that no public school teacher
shall receive any present or testimonial from his
or her pupils. Which is a good rule, and is always
enforced against the small men and girls of the
service. But when the great man of the show is
leaving, the rule doesn’t apply in any sense what-
ever.
- • • *
In Melbourne, lately, the Law wasted two
whole days inquiring into the mystery of a ring,
alleged to be lost, stolen, or strayed, and finally
gave the matter up as hopeless, incidentally
sticking to the ring. It seems that an Elstern-
wick grocer, in April last, spent a night at a city
coffee palace, and awoke in the morning minus
deposit receipts for £663, a diamond ring, some
small cash, and other trifles. A few days later
an allegedly identical ring was pawned in Prahran
by a young man, who gave his right name and
address. When he called five months later to
redeem it he was arrested for stealing the grocer’s
ring and other property. So far all seemed plain,
but just here things began to get involved. The
manager of a city jewellery firm swore he sold the
pawned ring, identified by a number, to a
Goorambat storekeeper, who had sold it to,
say, Jones. Also, he had previously sold a
similar trinket to the Elsternwiek grocer. The
grocer said he had sent his ring to a Goorambat
young lady—Jones’ sister—who had sent it back,
and that this was his ring. Here the case was
adjourned for a week to give the police a chance
to interrogate Miss Jones ; but it turned out that
that young lady had since got married and gone
away to parts unknown. But the Goorambat
storekeeper said that the ring was really the pro-
perty of a local resident, say Smith, who had lost
it in Malvern 12 months ago. The accused said
he had bought the gaud in Adelaide, and his wife
had worn it for years. The court here gave it up
as a bad job, and accused was discharged. Mean-
while, as stated, the Law sticks to the property.
One Voliva, head of “ Elijah ” Dowie’s
Zion movement in Melbourne, thus unburdened
himself on a recent Sunday afternoon :
When Christ comes the second time the theatres will
be in full blast, vile songs will be sung as usual, people
will be stuffing themselves and drinking all sorts of
poisonous liquors, and indulging in iniquity. The only-
people in Melbourne who will be safe will be found under
the banner of Zion.
What an awful lot these wing-flappers know about
the future !
* * * *
The proposed site of the Federal capital
is on the Goobarragandra River. If the arrange-
ment holds g' od, Australia will abort put uo
a world’s recoid in the way of having a horrid
name flowing past its capital.
The order (afterwards
withdrawn) issued, by
Reformer Bent last May*
that certain station-
masters and their single
assistants should work
day and day about, has
been almost equalled
under tho Shiels-Tait
rule. The Bent idea was
to save three days’ pay
of each man per week
by keeping the man on
duty for from 14 to 17
hours. The Shiels-Tait idea
is to withdraw the assistant
from two-man stations. Bent
only reckoned upon a man
working three 15 or 16-houi?
days a week ; Shiels-Taib expecta
him to work six 15 or 16-hour
days a week. Two officers who
are in charge of stations just
outside Bendigo are among thoso
who have been notified of the new
idea in State-sweating ; one of theso
will have to be on duty from 5.45
a.m. till 9.30 p.m. on five days a week
and from 5.45 till 11 p.m. on Satur-
days. For those who like excitement
Saturday night travelling on Vic-
torian country lines ought to become
popular; for up towards 11 o’clock
strange things are liable to happen
to a service that is run by men who
have been on duty 17 hours, and who
were pretty weary even before the 17
hours started.
* * *
A Gippsland P.M. lately
awarded three months’ hard labor
to an inhuman woman who had
horribly beaten her step-daughter,
a child of 12, with a poker, a waddy,
and a stockwhip. The papers headed
the report of this infamy, “A mother
severely dealt with,” bub a sheep-
stealer who gob twice the sentence would bo
characterised as having received lenient treat-
ment* The law has an ill-disguised love for
brutality.
* * * *
The Melbourne girl whose scalp was torn
off last June, through her long hair catching in
machinery, has been fixed up by a clever piece of
surgery by Dr. “Plevna” Ryan. The dissevered
scalp was replaced and sewn on, but refused to
unite. Then a small nanny-goat was obtained,
with hair to match the fringe still adorning the
patient’s head, and a piece from its back grafted
on to the girl’s head. This has now grown on
good and strong. The only possible bad effect of
the grafting will be an increased tendency to
gambol and skip, and a slight desire to butt when
annoyed.
• • * *
S’Malcolm M‘Eacharn was advertised to
parade and march into Scots Church, Melbourne, on
a recent Sundayafternoonatthe head of the Scottish
Regiment. As a fur-trimmed alderman, a bare-
legged major, a coruscating consul, a shining ship-
owner or an unpardonable politician, Malcolm is
eternally on parade.
NOTHING TANGIBLE.
CIBC OFFIOER (to bushie who has saved a child
from drowning) : “We shall strongly re-
commend you for some public recognition.”
BUSHIE: “Any beans 'anging to it?”
CIBIO OFFICER : “ Perhaps; more probably a
medal."
BUSHIE: “Give us a bottle o’ rum, and call it
square
Another ancient house is being “ im-
proved ” out of recollection—Craig Nathan, at the
head of Neutral Bay. Built about 80 years ago
by one M'Allister, it was first used for wool-
washing purposes. Later, Mr. Benjamin Boyd
rented it, and watered his whaling ships there at
a very fine tank cub in the solid rock. But
whaling failed, and Ben Boyd departed in his
yacht The Wanderer, and the Solomon Islanders
ate him, and his wonderful Royal Bank came to
grief, and his city of Boyd Town was abandoned
to the kookaburra.
I suppose you shave ! or, if not, of course
you require your hair trimmed. The most
fashionable gentleman’s hair-dressing saloon in
Sydney is Wild’s, at 30 Sydney Arcade-the
Arcade that runs from George-street to Kina-
st.’eet. &
ABSENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When your heart recoils in loathing from the dreary,
prosy present
To those blissful moments stolen from the treasury of
Time,
With a longing almost painful for the ring of far voice
pleasant,
For the kiss of hot lips distant, as the head aches after
wine.
How you hunger for the moments that you valued all too
lightly—
Does man ever value kissing until he no longer may?
Isn’t life a hollow bubble, falsest when it beams most
brightly—
When you’re heartsick, worn and weary, and the dearest
girl's away ?
Dearest girl? They’re all delightful, only some a little
more so,
Shape and color but distinguish girl from girl as flower
from flower.
Constant love is but a jingle, threadbare worn in poet-
lore, so
Shall the wraith of kisses bygone mar the all too rapid
hour?
There are eyes as limpid beaming, lips as eager for
caresses
As the eyes and loved lips distant, in their freshness
doubly dear.
k is but the want of kissing, not the memory, that
oppresses,
There is no cure for the absent like the kiss of warm lips
near.
Yio.
J. McCLELLAND.
ONCE A ROSE FLOURISHING
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Into the sweep o’ town,
Into the flood o’ feet,
A rose fell down and down.
Ah me 1 the bitter street
Dressed it in drab and brown,
Pilfered its honey sweet.
Only this very morn,
Blushing with life, it came
Out of the sceptre thorn,
Flashing like fire and flame.
Poor little early born,
This is thy early shame.
So the poor woman-thing,
Lifting you back to light,
Guiltless of love or ring
Sank and sank out of sight—
Once a rose flourishing ;
Now in Eternal Light.
N.S.W.
HUGH M'CRAE.
NEMESIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world was bright, the skies were blue,
And Life was young, and Love was true,
And I, I laughed at Love—and you.
Your dark eyes soft with passion burned,
I revelled in my power, new-learned,
And jestingly your love I spurned.
But though I sent you far away
I thought you would come back some day,
And then—l meant to bid you stay.
Alas ! The skies are eold and black,
And love is lost in storm and wrack.
Too late 1 Too late I called you back.
HELEN DOUGLAS.


►
0<
/
%
“ VALAZE ” Russian Skin Food eradicates
freckles, wrinkles, sunburn, sallowness, acne pimples,
all blemishes. Guaranteed to improve the worst skin in
one month. Price 3s 6d and 6s, postage 6d. Miss Nellie
Stewart writes : “ Valazb has made a marvellous differ-
ence in my complexion; cannot praise it enough.”
Helena Eubinstein & Co., 243 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped 1
Lact&, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
78. 6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne. Sydney—Mrs. Rogers, 54 Strand
Arcade; and Miss Cuthbert, 11 Victoria Arcade.*
facile princeps.
SEMPER iDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY
m
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
ma‘ r ‘kTME varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 13, 1903.
Mr Dear Arint.—
Roses and a clear sky once more. Spring was
born late, and will die very young, for which we
all shall roar like bears and mourn sore like doves,
as our friend Isaiah remarks. And now is the
acceptable time for the Summer girl to put away
her Winter garments, with the pungent moth
ball in the folds thereof ; or now she getteth them
together, both the great and the small, the hop-
sack, the tweed and the raiment of serge that is
called tailor-made —yea, even to the flannelette
dressing-gown that taketh fire as dry flax—and
she deviseth devices to cover the places where the
coffee stains are, and the places that are bereaved
of buttons. And, binding them with a girdle of
cord, she putteth her hand to a post-card and
writeth to Mother Isaiah, saying “ Call at Nor-
manhurst Manor, Darling Point, for left-off
clothing.”
Our recent visitor, the Duke of Roxburghe, is
to marry an American bride valued at £4,000,000.
She is Miss Goelet, only child of the late Ogden
Goelet, and is said to be beautiful and clever (very
difficult it is to get behind the beauty and intellect
of the rich). Duke was here with those half-
sovereigns, the Yorks. He looks the duke of the
Family Herald pattern, but he’s impecunious
(must not call a duke poor), and has recently placed
his ancestral estate on the market, so it is luck for
him that he has got a four times millionairess,
and he may be just as deeply in love with her
as if she were a ballet girl. In Miss Goelet
Britain will get its fifth Yankee duchesse. Her
mother is a sister of Lady Herbert, wife of the
British ambassador at Washington. Roxburghe
is the eighth duke of his line, but he is no relative
of the Roxburghe of history who directed his old
blunderbuss against Cromwell at the battle of
Dunbar. That gentleman’s line expired in 1804,
then the present Rox.’s started to carry on the
strawberry leaf business. The founder of the
present line was great-grandson of a man who had
married the cousin of an earlier Roxburghe’s
daughter, wliioh looks an unexpected sort of busi-
ness altogether.
The two Australian girls who were on their way
to Johore explained, when stopped at Singapore
by the Imperial Government Resident, that they
were typists going up in the employ of the
Johore Government. When the Sultan of J. was
here he was very fond of sauntering into the type-
writing colleges. Possibly he and A.de.C. Daud
intend to write books of their recent travels, and
require typewriters. Anyhow, the Sultan bought
two of the latest patterns of Yosts before leaving
Sydney. Even if the girls are sent back
they will have a nice trip to the land of spicy
breezes, where, like Ceylon, every prospect
pleases and only man is vile. Or they might stay
in Singapore, and do typing. There is nothing
really objectionable about Singapore, although
the practice of putting dead Chinese out with the
household refuse, to be taken away in the dust-
cart, strikes an Australian as peculiar.
Mrs. Douglas Stewart, formerly of Melbourne,
was married recently in London to Mr. Hugo
Samburg, of the Stock Exchange. His name has
a rich Hebrew sound, and one isn’t surprised to
hear that “he has a beautiful home.” Mrs. Sam-
burg is a daughter of late money-lender David
Henry, and was first wife of Melbourne Dr.
Stewart.
Mrs. Willie Campbell, of “Cheverells,” Eliza-
beth Bay (Sydney), has loaned her grounds for
a bazaar in aid of the Girls’ Friendly Society.
Mrs. Ernest Milford will run a stall to be called
Ladyland, an attractive name, which ought to
fetch the ladybirds. Lace ties, bows, “ cabbages ”
(call them choux if you are fond of foreign words)
of chiffon, muslin hats, Dorothy bags, and ever so
many other pretty things may be bought at this
stall. Mesdames Noyes, Docker, and others will
slave for the good work. Bazaar occurs on
Wednesday, 21st.
Marriage of Mr. H. Llewellyn Jones (Vice-
Consul. U.S.A.), representing the Carnegie Steel
Trust in Australia, to Miss Hammond took place
this week, and was a matter of considerable
moment to the American colony in Sydney. The
Reception was held at “Iroquois,” Mr. Frank
Coffee’s place at Chatsvvood. Bride, who arrived
with her mother by last trip of the Sonoma, is a
New Yorker of “Mayflower” descent. Very
smart, pale and pretty, grey-eyed, and with what a
bush short-storyist calls “a ruffled halo of soft,
dark hair.” Bridegroom is of a Quaker family, a
Philadelphian, descendant of one Bartram, a
noted botanist of his day, who came along with
William Penn. Penn was a man whom nobody
has ever dreamed of alluding to as “ Bill.”
The fresh-air blouse—the garment which gives
the impression of a joint of meat in a muslin safe
—comes back with the Summer. A male friend
of mine tells me that this garment inspires a lively
curiosity in his sex. When he sees a lady walking
around with most of her above the waist-line in
lace with something buff-colored underneath, he
is ever tempted to tap her on the shoulder and
ask her, “just to settle a wager,” to tell him if it
is real girl, or a well-colored fabric imitation, which
shows underneath.
Royal Art Society’s exhibition did pretty well
in the matter of sale of pictures. Several pleasant
entertainments have been given by the students
of the various teachers. Signor Datillo Rubbo’s
pupils were “At home” last month, and Mr.
A. J. Fischer’s students gave an especially
pleasant entertainment last Friday.
The most successful event of the week was
the Alliance Francaise Ball. Dr. Fiaschi’s
daughter, who “came out” this season, was belle,
and her management of and dancing in the cotil-
lion made the coup of the evening. M. Nette-
ment (who will soon wave the tricolor on his own
as M. Biard d’Aunet is to revisit the pleasant
land of France) and demoiselles Manning and
Whiting “ received.” Lady Rawson’s influenza
kept her away, but his faithful Ex and Miss
Rawson came with the cameo aide, Wilson. Who’d
ever think that young man got up early to bustle
Boers, get his uniform bluggy, and win a D.S.O. ?
He looks as if he had never all his life done any-
thing more ungraceful or less correct J than win
cotillion favors !
Mr. Fred Manning, youngest son of W.P. of
the name, goes hence by the Orotava next trip,
and will live awhile in the land of the Vatican,
maccaroni and anarchists. Said that publisher
Heinemann has accepted a book by him.
At date of writing, Tumut is as fresh as just-
uncorked red Burgundy. State Governor, Lady
and Miss Rawson are there, with the Hughes,
Sees, and O’Sullivans; and there are banquets,
races and sod-turnings, wild flowers, wild elo-
quence, dust and great heat. Tumut is all
a-quiver, hoping to be Federally capitalised.
What about a name for the capital? Clement
Wragge has done the inevitable in suggesting
Chamberlain. (Why not Potiphar or Judasville
while he was at it?) I’d like a canonised capital
(after the fashion of St. Petersburg)—say, St.
Wallaby ? Possumopolis has points, so have
Possumople and Kookaburraburgh. Anyhow,
whatever name we select let it be of home manu-
facture, not Brummagem.
By the way, Premier See has been smiting the
universe hard with his clenched hand and stating
that he won’t consent to the surrender, for Federal
capital purposes, of an inch more than the area
authorised by the Constitution. The Constitution
(I have been reading it up since I got a vote) author-
ises about 300,000 square miles (it says the Federal
area must not be less than 100 square miles, but
it may be any amount more provided that it leaves
100 miles around Sydney, and that, after it has
swallowed the rest of N.S.W., it doesn’t begin eat-
ing away pieces of adjacent States as well), so the
Premier is wise in deciding that he won’t run into
any excess. The Constitution is excessive enough
as it is.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“As a guide to form in Summer frills Caulfield
Guineas is generally an important day. It gives
usually a whisper, in the finest frou-frou, of the
wonders to be unearthed in Cup week. But this
year the smart shes didn’t take the public into
their confidence. In ‘ crashes ’ and linens of ankle
length the fat and lean of the Terrace disported.
Just now and then a meteoric robe of Spring
brilliancy—of soft sheen and serpentine train—
would flash on the scene. Then it was gone,
and the short-skirted, with the pertness
of cheeky wag-tails, held the field. For sheer
simplicity the maize muslin of Mrs. Roy
Green took the cake. The matron’s picture
hat and picture face helped the cheap frock to the
foremost rank. Bravest of the curtailed crashes
was that owning crimson strappings and worn
with an assured air by handsome Mrs. Leslie
Macdonald.
“The smart Johnnie is not leaving all the
champagne dress-hue to the female sex. The
latest male decoration is gloves of the golden
nectar shade. At the Guineas two leading actors
and an aide displayed champagne kids.
“‘Jolly Jenkin’Peterkin squires large fluffy
parties (his spouse in the number) to all the races
and shows. The hearty basso wears large checks
and shows a chest measurement that the puny
male must look on with covetousness. He has a
fine manly style.
“Genuine summer heat gave to the Tennysons’
initial garden party on Friday a tone of languor.
At the first blast of the fierce north wind brisk
humanity dropped its winter verve, its alert air,
and cosy look, and turned up in a limp fashion to
the first of the ice-cream shows. There seemed a
conspiracy of green in the most approved quarters.
Lady Tennyson united the Paddy hue with her
biscuit garb and head-gear. Even Lord Dicky
flashed a novel green cravat.
“Anew arrangement for presentation of cards
led to some awkward mistakes. The guardian of
the outer gate was missing. No cards were
collected, therefore some of the invited dropped
theirs into the rose-bushes flanking the drive.
Consternation succeeded when it was found
that Lord Dicky awaited the card and the
guest by the side of the hosts. A few
beat a graceless retreat, and went scouring among
thorny clumps for the pasteboard. Then there
occurred mistakes. Landlord Morey, of the'
State Upper House was dubbed “the Hon.
Thomas Bent.” The hot M-L.C. protested
against the error, and it is said that he may
sue for slander. Yes-No Reid had an English
journalist (of the Daily Mail) in tow, and was
probably stuffing him with political taradiddles.
Dr. G. N. Parkin, the envoy of the Rhodes
Scholarship Trustees, was, with his wife, of the
Y.R. party. An incongruous pair, meandering
round drearily, were Richard Baker of the Senate
and Rupert Clarke. Percy Grainger had a pack
of doating women about him all the afternoon.
It probably wasn't his fault. Giddens and his
jolly-looking dame were also there. Ada Crossley
wired apologies because of her ankle. Society
doesn’t prove alluring to Miss Crossley. Formali-
ties are merely exchanged. It seems the star asks
her Gippsland cronies and her relatives to morn-
ing coffee, the fashionables to lunch, and official*
dom to dinner.
“The hottest and tiredest person present at
Government House garden party was probably
Lord Dick Nevill, who did all the announcing,
and, besides that, was shaken hands with (1) by
his personal friends, (2) by strangers who took
him for the Gov.-General, (3) by timid strangers,
who rehearsed greetings on him before passing on
to his principals. Who wouldn’t pity a martyr
with a hot frock-coat on his back, a heavy top-hat
on his head, announcements falling fast from
his lips, his hands overflowing with feverishly
proffered cards, baskets stacked with pasteboards
at his feet, and, in the midst of all this, a flurried
clawing for his overtaxed paw on the part of th
arriving stream ? The three Tennyson boys re-
ceived parental instructions to help by manning
the baskets, but everyone knows how urchins
‘help.’
‘ The new Federal Judges arrived together,
(They say, though, you never see two N.S.W.
Supreme Court Judges together.) Other promi*
nent figures included spectacled Rep. M‘Millan
and his wife, the latter seeming cool and graceful
in pale green. The Bishops of Melbourne
and Tasmania, in glossy gaiters and sheeny
hats, drove up in carriage and pair. There
are bishops and bishops. The Prelate of Perth,
when he visits the goldfields and lives in camp
with his parishioners, cleans his own boots to save
his hostess the trouble, and, when he departs,
leaves the tent richer by folding-chairs of his own
making. Lady Tennyson, in holland-color, inter-
luded with green, proudly showed her boys to
gushing inquirers. Austrian Consul Pinschof was
wonderful to behold in a grey beaver—a real
beaver, furry on one side and satiny on t’other.
The Pinschof likes to knock ’em in the Old Kent
Road with dress novelties. Of old, he startled
Macedon' fashionables by roaming in Tyrolean
mountaineering costume, feathers in his hat, and
implements of the chase bristling round a
theatrical brown belt. In such garb he used to
hunt the fierce sparrow.
“ Superfluous Ex. Clarke bemoans his inability
to keep up to the knocker in all the unnecessary
duties of his unnecessary office by reason of his
remote residence and his limited stable. The
other Saturday their Superfluities and a beautiful
aide trained it from Malvern to Moonee Ponds
for an opening ceremony there. At the Ponds
station a motor-car came to their rescue and
whiffed them to the fete. But the machine broke
down on the return journey, and a cab had to be
whistled up for the precious freight. And some-
how a Governor who rides in a cab—and a Mel-
bourne cab at that, which is usually a vehicle that
has won an old-age pension as a Sydney all-nighter
—doesn’t inspire a proper degree of respect.
“Probably never at any reception junket in the
history of Melbourne did more kissing and slob-
bering come to pass than at the Welcome-All crush
arranged by J. C. Williamson for Ada Crossley
last Monday afternoon. Her Majesty’s circle,
foyer and adjacent footholds were not sufficient
for the assemblage, and, in the crush, one was
borne wheresoever the crowd listed. Sometimes
it was into a pantry, occasionally into a fanlight,
even into an umbrella-stand. But there was
much diversion. No one smiled when a
Gippsland brother solemnly saluted the beau-
tiful cream and del blue vision of stateli-
ness on the cheek. That was fraternal and akin,
but when old fat parties, greeted with good cheer
by Ada, started Jo hug her, and girl-gushers
pressed kisses wherever the geography of the fair
face invited, the idiocy of the thing made one
smile.
“Though Miss Jeffrie3 and Mrs. (Mollison)
Kelly were listed as hostesses, those twoladies posed
apart, only granting a hand-clasp in cases of great
provocation or pressure. But they both helped
by virtue of their fine frocking. Miss Jeffries had
on a garb of the finest blue silk crepe with
gossamer lace pleats and borders. Her shallow,
sun-burnt hat flaunted one cavalier white plume.
Miss Kelly wore a close-fitting garb in cream
color with a folded skirt of a spiral effect.
Reminded one of a corkscrew. The hat was a
sweet strawberry pink.
“A departure from the clinging robe style was
made by Miss Crossley at her descent on the
Australian Church fair the other day in a full-
flowing three-decker skirt, which made the
artistic wearer look wider, older, but more
majestic. The clinging style is good for the
curves, but the flowing ample skirt has a splen-
dor of its own. And this day Ada Crossley
looked absolutely grand. There were some babies
on view at this fair. Some of the contralto’s old
choir chums had been doing their duty to the
Commonwealth, and in the comparative privacy
of the tea-and-scone quarters, Ada kissed the'
chubby darlings and pinched their fat little legs,
as a good contralto should. Contraltism and
the domestic virtues blend harmoniously.
“Mrs. Alex. Peacock comes out of her rustic
shell to enlighten the she-public on matters con-
cerning a Premier’s wife, in a publication devoted
to the feminine cause. The outpourings appear
under startling headlines:
“AS IN A LOOKING-GLASS,”
REFLECTIONS OP A PREMIER’S WIFE.
Affairs of State and Home JAte—-Reminiscences of a
Honeymoon.
The young matron chats in a familiar and
most confidential tone of a husband with ‘ political
encumbrances.’ Some honeymoon revelations :
I lost my husband again lor a time. After a long wait
I peeped down into the bar. The bar was full of men.
Behind the bar were Mr. Malcolm M‘Eacharn and Mr.
Mathieson, the Railway Commissioner, with their coats
off, pulling the beer engines for dear life, and
my new husband was handing round glasses of
beer to a crowd of thirsty men. It was not a bit
dike the serenades of the story-books. I went upstairs to
bed. A long time afterwards a tired husband came into
the room, gave a longing glance at that despatch box,
hesitated a moment, conquered the impulse to open it,
and then went to sleep. It was my first introduction to
the encumbrances. 1 don’t like brass bands now 1
“ A party of very select feminines was admitted
by pink ticket to the swearing-in ceremony of the
High Court Judges last Tuesday. With Lady
Tennyson, who was decorative in pale mauve and
a smart scorched hat, came Mrs. Deakin, long,
gentle and nondescript, and Mrs. Forrest in
black. The dame who contributed the most
dressy item to the occasion was Mrs. Hutton, clad
in ficelle and blue.
“ Mr. Justice Toby would have had more horse
sense if he had abjured horse-hair. In the
judicial get-up his head loses all its charm. Not a
vestige of picturesqueness remains. A stranger
viewing Justice Barton for the first time would
be struck by the narrow forehead, the prominent
nose, the scoop lips, and the cheek cavities of the
shrunken face. As Chief Justice Griffith talked
his thanks in the ideal judicial manner, the ex-
Premier ransacked the pages of the pocket
Bible on which he had sworn his judgeship.
When his turn came _ to speak there was
an emotional tremor in his tones, but no
Scriptural quotation. Justice O’Connor took on
his new honors in a painfully subdued manner,
and with a pallid face. His brief address of
thanks might have been an In Memoriam deliver-
ance for its weight of care and solemn air. It
referred largely to N.S.W. ties of old, and a par-
ticular compliment was paid to B. R. Wise.
“ What with a dream of a yacht coming to life at
Rupert Clarke’s order somewhere, and an up-to-
date, odorless, lightning flyer of a motor machine
arriving at completion for the sporting baronet,
his friends are looking after him well just now.
Yacht jaunts and motor car trips, with a liberal
host in the background, are seductive things.
“The Alexandra Club, which was going to fight
hard for its drinking license, has shown the white
feather at the cry of indignation from the virtuous
female associations. On Friday it withdrew its
rash application for the right to sell whisky, and
henceforth will offer members nothing stronger
than gingerbeer.
“ Since arriving in the Big Smoke by way of
Siberia, Captain and Mrs. Lindsay (nie Mary
Clarke) have been feted by belted earls and all the
bluest-veined of the Lindsay family. Also a shoal
of wedding-gifts has been netted by the bride.
“The arrival of ‘Monsieur Beaucaire ’ at Her
Majesty ’s on Guineas night thronged the theatre
with a large, glad, perspiring multitude. The
Tennysons’ grave, elderly party had a back-
ground of black and crimson-mounted aides. The
thatch erections in the audience were noticeable.
Fair young things with flaxen structures wore one
ooquettish rose over the left temple. The fringe
is gone, the flower makes for coyness in its place.
Heavier females with fashionable bronze locks
surmounted the wired thatch with ivy wreaths
A la Crossley. In cases where Mistress Vanity
was somewhat of a ruin, the ivy garland had a
pathetic significance.
“Miss Jeffries makes a highly poetic appear-
ance as the Beauty of Bath in the sweetly
foolish comedy at Her Majesty’s. She wears a
door-filling, far-reaching costume of white brocade,
flushed in places to a floral pink, bordered at times
with a garland of pink daisies, with flights of
tender green ribbon bows about the corsage, and
bows airing at the lacy elbows.
“ Big John Forrest’s advertising dame lias made
a protege of Maud Jeffries, or else Miss Jeffries
has takqn her up. The pair lunch, purchase their
hairpins and pay their calls side by side. At the
theatrical ‘At Home,’ when the Society worship-
pers of the fair Maud were becoming troublesome,
the Federal dame oared her way through the
crowd, and the pair made a dramatic departure,
with a dozen men to hand them into the landau
and a crowd to gape at their opportune despatch.
All cleverly stage-managed.
“I went to see Ada Crossley plant a tree out-
side the St. Kilda Town Hall on Saturday. She
did it with an elegant, inscribed spade, which was
a compromise between a toy and a utensil. The
new sprig is only about 12 feet from a prosperous,
youngish white gum tree, a rara avis amid the
English and American trees, or Pacific pines;of the
St. Kilda lawny area. Now, I don’t know
whether that guin-tree is to be sacrificed to the
sprig. If so, Ada might say, ‘ Woodman; spare
that tree,’ for it is the sort amid which
she was brought up, with its bark hanging in the
familiar brown strips, and a goodly mass of such
foliage as an Australian evergreen can show. I
would rather christen it the Ada Crossley tree
than adopt a new English one. According to my
bushcraft, it is somewhere about Ada’s own age.
When Ada roamed the Tarraville woods as a
child, that tree was a sapling. If aught inanimate
e’er grieves, how it would grieve at being cut
down, or grubbed up, after beholding Ada
Crossley.
“ ‘ Charity begins with the children,’ seems to be
a new Melbourne motto. A bazaar, organised by
-four little girls, lately realised over £2OO for the
Children’s Hospital, while the small girls of a
Mt. Morganaire mansion at Toorak raked in, on
a recent Saturday, £5O to help the Neglected
Children’s Aid Society. Now a Children’s Stall
is being organised in the much-talked-of bazaar
which will take place in November, in aid of the
District Nursing Fund. Everything will be sup-
plied by children, who will also wait upon it and
make an early start in life at waylaying buyers.
“Mr. M'Eacharn, the new gaud-Mayor, is
well calculated, from the purse point of view, to
adorn the position. He has been married twice,
each time to an heiress. His first wife's only
child did not live to grow up, and the present
Mayoress’ family is small in point of numbers, so
the accumulated wealth of the clan has not to
finance many people. The eldest olive-branch, a
daughter, is now back from England, where she
spent many years getting educated and Englished
to suit her ambitious parents’ views. It’s a
question whether the typical, ‘correct’ English
demeanor grafts very successfully on to the
Australian stock. A ‘prunes-and-prism ’ air
stands buxom, blonde Britishers in good stead,
toning down their physical exuberance; but young
Australia, as a rule, is not in such danger of
resembling a cabbage-rose that she need freeze
her petals into the repose of Vere de Vere. Miss
M‘Eacharn who has returned to Australia a
slight, dark, well-read Miss, the very antithesis
in appearance of her flaxen-haired mother, has
imbibed all the typical Englishwoman’s love of
active games. She plays golf, of course (even
Rockhampton, where she has been holidaying
lately, was not too hot for her golf enthusiasm),
but hockey is her pet recreation.
“Mark Hambourg, who regretfully describes
himself as ‘a bundle of nerves,’ ascribes his poor
health to overwork in childhood. ‘ They even
dragged me out of bed at night to practise,’ says
the victim, bitterly. Nowadays the word of the
successful Mark is regarded as law by his relatives,
and it is owing to him that brother Boris is allowed
to take up athletics and spend some of his time in
amusing himself. ‘He may thank me that there
remains curl in his hair and color in his cheek,’
says Mark, scanning with complacence the comely
’oillist, who, for his part, says he would gladly
barter his superior digestion and nerves for a
chance of ever landing in the same musial street
as his gifted elder brother.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


INDIGESTION’S SLAVE.
He’s sallow, languid, thin, down-hearted—for him delightful dinners have no charm.
A light meal lies like lead upon his chest —a good meal gives him hours of agony.
He’s Indigestion’s Slave—slave to the wind, the biliousness, the headaches, the sharp internal pains.
And his slavery can’t end till he builds up his blood with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
They strengthen the stomach, stimulate the liver, sharpen the appetite. They actually have cured the
worst cases of Indigestion, and they can do the same for you.
“Indigestion was slowly wearing me out,” says Mr. W. Craig, 128 Riley-street, Woolloomooloo. “Sharp, knife-like
pains ran between my shoulder-blades and drove off all sleep. A heavy weight always seemed to be pressing on my chest. The
pains were all through my body, and I often thought there was something seriously wrong with my heart. It was precious little
food I took—and I hated to take even that much. My friends were sure I was in Consumption and I was the most miserable man
on earth. All the tonics and medicines didn’t do me a particle of good. At last I read that Indigestion was due to bad blood,
and that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured it because they actually made new pure rich red blood. I got some, and the first box
started to set me right. I got a capital appetite, my food gave me no trouble, and my mouth lost that horrible coppery taste.
Four boxes made a different man of me—and I have been as right as rain ever since.”
Always in Boxes—Never in Bottles.
2s. 9d. a box; six Boxes, 15s. 3d.
ink pills for pale people
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The ages of the Commonwealth Judges are
—Griffith (Welsh) 58, Barton (Sydney native) 64,
O’Connor (Sydney native) 45.
Governor Clarke, of Melbourne, was Pro-
fessor of Geometrical Drawing in Royal College,
London, thirty years ago.
“ They’d make a bishop take off his mitre
and jump on it Larry Foley on some members
of N.S.W. Opposition who annoy him.
The reminiscence book of G. W. Des
Voeux—Sydney remembers the old dodderer’s
visits—speaks of “ Sir William Bede Dailey ” and
“ Mayor Barton.”
“ Affy ” (A. H.) Jarvis, the South Austra-
lian wicket-keeper, will be 43 on October 17th.
At his age, there is very little hope of him taking to
the game seriously again.
Treasurer Waddell, in the N.S.W. Govern-
ment, and Speaker M‘Court, are “ townies” —both
Monaghan men. The Treasurer’s first public post
was clerk of petty sessions.
Collingwood (Vic.) has a Dick Whittington
mayor. Forty-eight years ago he entered that
salubrious suburb in an open dray, tied to the
family water-barrel for fear of being jolted out, as
the vehicle struggled over the primitive roads
where the threepenny tram now buzzes.
General De Wet, according to a S’African
print, has gone back to his farm. He has already
partly rebuilt his house, which, was wantonly
destroyed by a high British officer (that piece
of wanton destruction probably cost about
£50,000,000), and has started to re-stock.
The promotion of Chief Justice Griffith
will, no doubt, be a relief to the somewhat
peppery Justice Real. A little difference between
them started with theKenniff outlaw appeal case,
and it bobbed up on most appeal cases since. To
the mere outsider it seemed as if the strict letter
of the law was with Samuel and the common sense
interpretation with Patrick.
As a guinea-pig, Dr. Cockburn, ex-Agent-
General of South Australia, grows larger every
month or two. He has just taken up the chair-
manship of the Eastern and African Cold Storage
Co., vacant through the death of ex-Mnorilander
Charles Pharazyn—the concern which hopes to
some day do a big thing by potting bullocks in
tha Northern Territory for foreign consumption.
REPRESENTATIVE PAGE, QUEENSLAND.
“F.”: The late F. A. Wright, M.L.A.,
of Wright, Heaton and Go., and Patrick Keane,
of Keane and Sons, stevedores, who died the same
day last week, came to Australia in the same ship,
the former as chief cook and the latter before the
mast.
The father of lately-appointed Maoriland
Justice Chapman had an unusual experience. He
was permanently appointed to M.L. Supreme
Court bench twice. The first time, from 1843
onwards, he sat for something over eight years;
then he returned to the bar for nine years, and in
his old age went up again for 11 years more. So
the present Chapman is the son of two Judges.
“ Yarrum ” describes a hardrworking Aus-
tralian :
It is commonly believed that, after a man runs a pub.
for a while, he is no good for work, but I know an ex-
publican, in Newcastle district, who has made and spent
two fortunes, and is now as good a grafter as there is in
Australia. He takes contracts for clearing, and it is a
pleasure to sit languidly on a stump beside a cool drink
and watch him laboring. When he strips to it, the trees
fairly stagger away from him ; and the undergrowth gets
itself into a heap, for a fire, as if by magic. You can’t
get him on at the minimum wage, as he has never yet
done a day’s bullocking under 12s. 6d. He is open to
work against any man in the Commonwealth ; and there
is a lot of money in Newcastle to say he can win every
time. Have often wondered what sort of demolisher he’d
make, if he got a show in Sydney. Whole streets of
humpies would totter before his mattock ; and even the
best public buildings wouldn’t be too safe. Some time
ago there was talk of pitting Andy Kelly against him, but
Andy’s backers were not forthcoming.
During the debate on Shiels’ first Divorce
Bill Duncan Gillies was unusually violent in
Opposition. Shiels got angry and called Duncan
“a human icicle.” “I may be a human icicle,
Mr. Speaker,” said Gillies, “but that surely is
preferable to being a firebrand whose wild, reckless
raving is calculated to destroy the domestic happi-
ness of Victorian homes.” It was not a brilliant
retort, but it “ caught on,” and used to be quoted
against Shiels for years after. But Duncan was
sorry once for a sneer at the expense of the late
C. E. Jones. “Oh, it’s only Jones,” was the
then Premier’s gibe as Jones rose to oppose
a Govt. Bill. “Allow me to inform the
Premier,” was the rejoinder, “that in Wales,
where I come from, princes have borne the name
of Jones ; but in the country the Premier comes
from ‘ gillies ’ carry the gamebags for their
masters.” Gillies shut his lips and clenched his
hands, but did not reply.
The new Queensland Ministry con-
tains three natives, including the Premier,
three Englishmen, and only one Scots-
man. Barlow is the oldest, tallest and
heaviest man in the Cabinet, while Blair
is the youngest, smallest and lightest.
Barlow is 66; Blair 32. The Premier is
a journalist; Kidston, a bookseller; Bell;
a squatter and barrister; Barlow, a banker,
Denham, a produce merchant; Browne, a
miner; and Blair, a barrister. The late
Ministry contained two lawyers, two im-
porters, a chemist and an ex-publican.
Rev. “Bleeds” Fitchett and W.
T. Stead have fallen out definitely. For
the past couple of years the Refuse of
Refuse has in its English edition prayed
for peace and damned Chamberlain, and
in its Australian edition (edited by
“ Bleeds ”) howled for gore and sanctified
Joseph of Birmingham. The incongruity
of this has now struck even the clergyman,
and the Australian edition of R. OF R.
will henceforth be run by Stead directly,
while the other man “ Bleeds ” in a new
magazine.
Nothing like arriving early.
“Northcote” was one of the names
given at a society christening the other
day, the presumable intention being to
§ resent the kid to the new Governor-
reneral on his arrival in Sydney.
Thera are now four red-headed men
on the S. M. Herald and Mail staff. That ought
to brighten up the Herald a little. The S.M.H.,
up to now, sadly lacked ginger.
Be Kidsfcon, Queensland’s new Treasurer.
When he entered politics his bookselling busi-
ness gave him up. Mismanaged in his absence, a
hitherto thriving little enterprise went to the
dogs, but Kidston, by solid Scotch grit and with
unusual honesty, paid off his creditors, little by
little, to the uttermost farthing. If he tackles the
State’s troubles with the courage and persistence
with which he tackled his own, Queensland will
have little to complain of in its Labor Treasurer.
Duncan Gillies, it appears, never had any
savings, after all; he was in pawn to a fellow
citizen during the latter years of his Melbourne
life, and had been a needy borrower of a humble
“tenner” as far back as March, 1891. At his
death he owed £llOO to his “banker,” James Bell,
who held securities valued at £425 against the
cash advances. What a ghastly error was made
by the London widow who forfeited her annuity
in marrying Duncan for his “ position ” !
“Top”: Dan Barry (his real name
is Atkins), recently reminiscing of his varie-
gated career, omitted to mention that he is
a son of old Melbourne equity barrister
Atkins, who had a good practice in the dry-
as-dust court in the sixties. Atkins pere once
had a romance which was mentioned in the
Eapers. ’Twas a great surprise to everyone,
ecause no man born of woman ever looked
less like playing the part. Perhaps there
were latent histrionic abilities there also,
crushed under the weight of foolscap, sealing-
wax, and Chitty.
Early promotions to Cabinet rank,
talked of in a recent Bulletin, are disappoint-
ing sometimes. There is the case of lately-
deceased F. A. Wright, M.L.A. for Glen
Innes, for instance. He got into Parliament
for Redfern in 1882, and was Postmaster-
General on Jan. 7th, 1883—about a N.S.W.
record for a non-lawyer. Yet, though he
wasn’t reckoned a failure, and was a good busi-
ness man, he only had one other look-in
during the whole 20 years since, and that look-
in did not last a month.
A Maori chief of the bluest blood—
one Heta Te Kani, of Poverty Bay (M.L.) —
is alleged to have been murdered the other day
by the malpractices of a “tohunga,” known
as Matenga. Heta was in the last stages of
consumption, when Mat. happened along, an«k
pitched the same old quack tale about his
jivine power to eat greenstone and raise the
dead. The chief urged the deliverer to get
to work at once and save him, regardless of
expense, and the tohunga poured 14 buckets
or thereabouts of cold water over his patient.
Then the chief naturally died. Matenga has
been arrested on a charge of murder —and so
the passing of the “ tohunga ” is being gradu-
ally brought about.
One Wellington (M.L.) leading citizen
boasts that he can’t remember when he was sober
last. He drinks all day and sits up working in
his office most of the night, occasionally taking
the air for a breather and a yarn with the con-
stable on the beat. Recently lie staggered into the
editorial department of a local and
between hiccups begged to “have it kept out of
the newspaper.” A scrutiny of the police court
reports showed that he was the victim of an
hallucination, as his arrest for drunkenness was
pure imagination on his part. To humor him
thev promised “to keep it on-.”
THOSE MAIL-CONTRACTS AGAIN.
JACK (to Orientally-attired pal): “’ Ullo, Bill, what
yer rigged out in now? ”
BILL : “ Only hope o' gettin ’ a job these days, me boy .”
They are reviving the story in London of
Phil May’s drawing of the late Colonel North’s
fancy-dress ball at the Metropole. It appeared in
St. Stephen’s Review, and the humor was dis-
tinctly realistic. The nitrate “ Colonel ” tore the
paper in halves when he first saw the picture, and
fell on it with both feet; after which he had
another look at it, began to laugh, and finally
ordered 500 copies to send to other victims. This
was about May’s first work after returning from
Sydney, and the original drawing afterwards sold
for 25 guineas.
Max Hirsch, the German shoddy apostle,
who is making a desperate effort to win the
Wimmera seat in the House of Representatives,
can blow his trumpet considerably. Clip from
election speech being printed (by arrangement)
at 5-column length in the district papers:
My action in the Victorian Parliament has shown that
I am a loyal, unselfish citizen, devoting my life largely
to the public affairs of this country. . . I can show I have
rendered good services, not only to my own constituency,
but to all the producers of the Mallee and the northern
areas of the State. . . I am known throughout Australia
and most parts of the civilised world as one of the fore-
most opponents of Socialism. My latest book, “ Demo-
cracy v. Socialism,” is a text-book in half-a-dozen uni-
versities in England, Germany, and America.
Cook-a-doodle-do!
Richard King, who died recently at Newry-
bar (N.S.W.), was perhaps the oldest living
pioneer of the Richmond and Tweed Rivers.
His brother Stephen, who predeceased
him, was one of the first party of
half a dozen whites who went north
from the Clarence River over 60
years ago. Richard King followed
six months later, an 1 had since
resided continuously i > the district.
When a very young n..m he formed
one of the party which explored the
Darling River country under Major
Mitchell.
“Little” Jenkinson, erstwhile
leader of Queensland Remnant,
adopts the role of candid friend
to the Morgan Ministry. Jenkinson
says he doesn’t want office. A much
larger man (Parkes) used to say
the same thing, but then Parkes
could get office. Jenkinson can’t.
When the man who can’t get it says
he doesn’t want it the effect is
ridiculous.
A suicide to match that recent Broken
Hill horror—when a temporarily insane woman
„ ..oil r , . ~ ,
butted a nail into her brain eventuated m Mel-
i Ur ? when another woman, having had
a bad day at the pony races, deliberately poured
methylated spirits over herself and then set her-
self alight. She died after 10 days’ agony. By
the way, there is no totalisator in Victoria. It
was the parson’s friend and accomplice in his war
against the tote, Isaac Mo, the bookmaker, who
took the flaming victim’s money.
Mrs. Martel, who is pushing to a pro-
minent place in the political world of N.S. W. and is
spoken of as a Senatorial candidate, is a teacher of
elocution by profession and always strikes the eye
on a platform. Mrs. Molyneux Parkes—tall,
graceful, with an Ada Crossley figure, and a very
clear speaker—makes, perhaps, the best figure of
all the feminine politicians, excepting Miss Rose
Scott, who is helped by an Annie Besant voice
and a soft prettiness of face. One prominent she-
politician has a disconcertingly affectionate nature,
When she takes your hand she fondles it at least a
minute. Once she was timed by a stop-watch
publicly holding Bill Lyne’s hand in sisterly
affection 2| minutes.
Poor old Duncan Gillies was in a great
funk just before the opening of Victorian
State Parliament that opening which was
his last public appearance. He had sent
a coat to the dyer, and was afraid it
would not be done in time, so the hard-up and
economical old man haunted the dyer’s establish-
ment and almost lived there. The garment
arrived in due course, however, and Duncan wore
it on the auspicious occasion. Then, when his
mind was no longer ballasted with his anxiety
about that dyed coat, he finally broke down.
About some Salvationists :
It’s surprising what insignificant fry some people who
loom big in the distance become when they arrive at your
door-step. Botflyville has just had a visit from
Salvarmy Commissioner M‘Kie and his buxom frau.' At
close quarters, M‘Kie is a very ordinary-looking person
with a retrouss6 nasal organ and pugnacious counten-
ance, somewhat dla Kitchener. As a leader, he shows
no physiognomical points till he opens his mouth and lets
his huge voice fly forth. M‘Kie’s visit to Botflyville
was of the usual “ bean’’-hunting nature, bringing also, I
Jiresume, a personal exhortation to the half-starved
assie officers, to excel their previous self-denial efforts
during the big cadge-week. One thing to M’Kie’s credit
is that he does get his hair cut occasionally. This is
more than I could take an affidavit on about ex-Com-
missioner Coombes, whose locks (his especial neglect
seemingly) hung round his head like capsized trees.
At opening of the High Court, Chief Jus-
tice Griffith: ,
I hope that I will be able to occupy this seat so as, at
the end of it, when the time comes at the end of my life—
for I am destined to it for the term of my natural life—l
may really have earned the confidence which has now so
generously been placed in me.
Naturally, since there is no pension for the
Federal Judge, he will be tempted to hold on to
the Bench while there is breath in his body, even
though failing powers may make retirement
advisable. The Australian Parliament should as
soon as possible reverse its decision of this session
in the matter of pensions, before the spectacle is
E resented of an aged dodderer, without ears to
ear, eyes to see, or brains to apprehend, tottering
on to the Bench, to which he must stick or else
starve. i,
A recent English magazine publishes a
letter written, in July, ’7l, by C. Gavan Duffy to
his friend, Cashel Hoey, London, which describes
with enthusiasm the reception met with in the
country parts of Victoria by the newly-formed
Duffy Ministry. Says Gavan :
I am willing to admit that I have never had a success
before, if you choose, but this time I have hit the centre
of the target.
The Ministry only lasted 12 months. On the
meeting of Parliament, the optimistic Premier
found, as others have done, that he had been com-
pletely misled by the hoorayings at cheap ban-
quets and the thunderings of applause following
Elatform addresses. But the Government lasted
mg enough to give ex-Irish patriot Hoey a good
billet as secretary to the Agent-General, and, to
introduce into the public service son Duffy (now
Clerk of Parliaments) as secretary to the Premier.
TEE NEW PROFESSION.
“A fashionable gathering was held at Janet Lady
Clarke’s to instruct women voters. About 400 partook of
tea and dainty cakes; and instructive addresses on voting
were given by John Forrest, Senator Best, R. Murray-
Smith,” &c. —Daily Paper.
“G.: ” Some action will probably be taken at
, , , , , , • , r , ~ , , , ,
W, slow lasfc > to brin g to book those fraudulent
“ po ° r fa ™ ei ? ° f ictoria ’” y h o came down for
the Cu P’ bought gold watches . for their daughters,
and incidentally put in applications for seed-wheat
grants, on the ground that they were starving,
In one case a wealthy farmer cadged £2O from the
State in relief. Another farmer obtained a large
supply of free seed, which he promptly disposed
of at a substantial figure. It is admitted that the
“starving stock” concession was responsible for
glutting the Melbourne market with prime fats a
few months ago, but none of the offenders were
“ pulled.” No wonder the Irvine Government
has a strong country support. If only a King-
ston were there the Victorian gaols would
receive a lot of Kyabram “ reformers.” .


To Play youp Piano
p
-L-
The Pianola mill aid yon.
We are mailing’ free to anyone who will
ask us a book called “Music in the Home."
This book tells about the Pianola, what it
is, and what it will do. It will be of in-
terest to every person who loves music,
and particularly to the many thousand
owners of pianos whose instruments remain
unused for months at a time.
The Pianola can be played by any one,
even though they may never have played
one note in their life.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt
cash, or £65 on moderate monthly pay
ments.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
323 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY,
135-187 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Hardy Brothers,
Viceregal Jewellers.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney;
118 Queen Street, Brisbane
(And at London).'
Clocks
HARDY BROTHERS are noted for their variety
of Fashionable Clocks in Oak, Harble,
Silver, etc., etc.
Large new Illustrated Catalogue post free on application.
Goods forwarded at Sydney Prices to all parts of the Common-
wealth.
/-v
•W a ,v
HARDY BROS
SYDNEY
Richly Gilt Striking and Repeating Carriage Clock, with the finest quality lever movement, in leather
case, £7 10s. Others from 555. to £l6.
Aboriginalities.
A PERTINENT IMPERTINENCE.
THIRSTRY STRANGER : “ Hello, mate I what yer
drinkin' ? ”
HATTER : “ Water.”
T.S.: “What’s it good fer?”
Dr. Gilbert White, Bishop of Carpentaria,
has come upon a race of blacks in a state of unex-
pected physical health and vigor, in the region of
the Mitchell River. Disease and degradation
were supposed to be stamped upon the tribes
thereabout, leprosy being prevalent. The Bishop,
however, says that his tribe is quite exceptional—
“ physically a very fine race, and untouched by
disease.”
physical suffering with much grit.
Saw one once dodging about
among brambles and
spinifex with an ankle
swollen to the size
of his head, and
without a big toe,
which had been
freshly chopped off
close to the foot.
He told a police-
man (who hinted
at leprosy) that
the toe-loss was
an accident and
the swollen
ankle the result.
Hoes any Bul-
letin reader
know if the
blacks go in for
surgery in like
cases ?
N. Queensland blacks, though
a degenerate-looking lot generally, endure
LOST HIS
MEDAL.
OLD BRUNGLE BOB: "So she
threw you over ’cos yer had no
medal”
LONG LARRY (late Warrigal Lan-
cers): “ Yairs; an' it narks me ter
think I could er got one if that blanky
peace 'adnt broke out.”
“ T.S.” : Rochester (Vic.) rejoices in a
precocity still in his teens who is the wonder and
despair of his confreres. Having lost his left leg
at the hip when an infant, “ Crutchy ” makes light
of his misfortune, and will race the average man 100
yards with his crutch, or give him 20 yards start
and hop him the distance, and beat him. He has
won innumerable boys’ races, and is always put on
scratch in handicaps, while he can ride a horse or
bike, mounting unaided, most admirably. He uses
his crutch when riding as a balance, d la Blondin.
T’other Wednesday “Crutchy” mounted his bike
and set off to view the Elmore walking contest,
after which he made.for Mount Zion, his rendez-
vous, where he played “jolly miller,” at the
Bethel bean-feast, with the best of them, riding
home at midnight along an i iknown bush road,
after pedalling 40 miles. A • ther local worthy
has lost one of his hands, it is replaoed with an
iron hook. As a stack-builder, tree-grubber, or
rail-splitter “ Hooky ” has no equal.
* • * *
Some of the men who went up to find
wild-cats at Arltunga could give the down-South
walking champions points; and a few of
them, after seeing what kind of cats were
available, left even more swiftly than they
arrived. One of these, a Gaffney’s Creek
(Vic.) man, hurrying to catch the train that
leaves Oodnadatta every fortnight, covered
the 400 or so miles to the head of the railway
in 14 days 3 hours, walking only 8 hours a
day, and carrying tucker and water when
necessary. Others beat that record, but
they sometimes put in a night shift. This
man now wants to make a match with the
Softgoods or Brewers’ Lorrymen’s champion
to walk across Australia, from Adelaide to
Darwin, for a pair of boots or a barrel of beer ;
he figures it out that he can do the trip in 65
days.
“ Prospect Good ” : A Bulletin corre-
spondent (20/8/’O3) is surprised at two varieties of
ants camping together. This is an even com-
moner occurrence than the piebald human home.
But it will be noticed that two fighting varieties
never fraternise. In “ B.H.’s ” example the
meat-ants will promptly deal with any intruder,
but the sugar kind are a timid, harmless, and
unarmed lot. Generally speaking, of two kinds
living together, one is much smaller than the
other (the case quoted is an exception). This
seems to indicate that the one breed lives under
the protection of the other, paying for the protec-
tion, no doubt, by performing some service—no
loafing being allowed in ant communities. I have
never seen any sign of the breeds mixing.
» * * »
The fauna and flora protection committee
of S.A. Royal Society is moving to have the Kan-
garoo Island birds and beasts protected. The
local emu is extinct long since; the wallaby is
nearly gone, and even in the wild scrub at the
back of the Island the kangaroo is in serious
danger. A temporary protection saved the kan- *
garoo for some years, but unless it is quickly re-
enacted, the species, which is said to differ
slightly from any on the mainland, will be com-
pletely wiped out.
Kodak ’ : Up till lately was in the habit
of taking a daily constitutional along the beach
from St. Kilda (Melbourne) to the Red Bluff, but
have discontinued on account of the corpses
strewn along the strand. On a recent afternoon
counted 15 dogs, each with the usual brick
attached, lying cold and still at the water’s edge.
The habit of drowning things, presumably on
account of its comparative ease and simplicity,
has a peculiar fascination for the languid local
assassin who is too tired to provide a grave for his
victim. The fact that the sea gives up its dog
doesn’t worry him in the slightest. He just
throws in his discarded pup as usual, and then the
short-sighted _ stranger sets down the odor to
socialistic legislation.
* » * »
A wine-grower on the hill-slopes behind
Adelaide has patented a new windmill, made of
highly-polished kerosene tins with marbles inside.
The flash and the noise together have so far
formed a complete protection from starlings and
sparrows, and save the expense of continual
shooting.
AN OUTBACK SCHOOL.-STURT’S STONY DESERT.
“ The g lor y splendid of the sunlit plain extended."—“Banjo” Paterson.
Chasselas : I can count fully 20 of my
cysts, and it is not to be wondered at. Recently
examined about 50 rabbits caught on what is con-
sidered the soundest country in Victoria, and
nearly 50 per cent, of them contained hydatid
c Y sbs - iio ra bbiters assure me that in some
parts fully 80 per cent, of the rabbits caught are
affected, mostly all over their bodies. Cats and
dogs kill and eat the rabbits, and the children
contract the disease from them. Many a bright
young Australian has put in a happy afternoon
drowning the cat and has died through it.
“Myrtle”: Caught and killed a goanna
near the Falls, Mount Morgan (Q.), lately, and
found, on opening him, besides the usual soldier
bird, a fairly large-sized perch. Isn’t this an
anomaly ?
Queensland’s artesian wells run to all sorts
?“ ““ tr ' d D °r?*‘ hw T! ok *
. y flow of 2000 £ allons at 10ft -1 wfnle on
Bimerah they had to grope down to 5045 ft. before
they got what they wanted, but then they got a
daily 70,000 gallons of it. This hole on Bimerah
is still the deepest; in Queensland, being the only
one over 5000 ft. ; but there are 15 over 4000 ft. and
43 over 3000 ft. EJderslie No. 2 bore gives the
hottest water—it is still 202° Eahr. when it reaches
surface after its journey of 4523 ft. through the
tube ; while Charleville gives the biggest flow,
reaching 3,000,000 gallons a day.
DID YOU EVER?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Did you effer seen some leetle pootle dog
Dat vas shnoodled oop so shnug upon a mat?
Did you seen some sheeps in clover ? or a hog
Vhat could hardly valk around himself for fat ?
Did you effer seen a cat vhat caught a mouse ?
Or a poy vhat shtole a lump of sugar-cane ?
If you did, I bet a pumpkin to a house
Dat you seen some beoples happy. Dat vas plain.
Und dat vas shoost like me,
Shoost so happy as could pe,
When first mine eyes dropped down on Susan Yane.
She vos riding on a horse dat vos a mare ;
Und she plushed all oop und down und looked so shy;
Der sun vos playing “ peep-bo ” mit her hair,
Und der shtars could neffer twinkle like her eye.
I could hardly mofe mineself for shtanding still ;
I vos got all hot, and soon gpt cold again.
She shmiled at me, und cantered down der hill,
Und left me filled mit gladness in der lane.
Und der singing of der preeze,
As it murmured through der trees,
Vas like music, vhen I first seen Susan Yane.
I vent courting Susan Yane like efferything ;
Und see shmiled so sveet und soon shtuck oop mit me.
So I pought a leetle golten vedding ring,
Und ve poth vos shoost so happy as could pe.
She vos promise she vould lofe me und opey,
Und vould shtick to me mit sunshine und mit rain ;
Und it seemed der vorld so happy vos und gay,
Dat I neffer couldn’t sigh no more again.
Und I sang vhen I vos talking,
Und I yumped vhen I vos valking,
On der day dat I got spliced mit Susan Yane.
Did you effer seen some leetle pootle dog
Vhat his leetle tail got yammed between a door ?
Or a cow dat vos shtuck fast into a pog,
Und vhat couldn’t neffer get him out some more ?
Did you seen a man egstracted from his tooth,
Und vhat kick der teeth egstractor mit his pain 1
If you vos yourself dat man und shpeak der truth,
You vas neffer vant to pe dat man again.
Dese are things dat vasn’t fun,
But shoost poil dem down to von,
Und dat vos like I last seen Susan Yane.
She vos shtanding mit her arms und elbows pare ;
Und der vords she said dey made me feel so sick ;
In her left hand vos a handful of mine hair,
While her right hand gripped der handle of a stick.
I could hardly stand me oop, I felt so sore,
Und I ran so hard I neffer shtopped again—
If I effer shows mine face to her some more
I shall mighty quick pe numbered mit der slain.
For mine heart is in mine poots,
Und mine hair’s pulled out py roots—
Und dat’s der last I seen of Susan Yane.
N.B.W.
THOS. E. SPENCER.
THE WOOD-AND-WATER JOEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On most stations there’s an insect half a man and half a
boy,
Who arises ere it’s daylight, and has little time for joy ;
Who is hired to bring up water and to keep the wood-
heap high.
He goes slouching on the cow-track, with a vacant, way-
back eye ;
He is toiling, always toiling—he is always “on the go”—
He is cursed by all and sundry, from the boss to stock-
man low ;
He’s a weary drudge, mis-shapen, and his wage is mighty
small—
Yea, the wood-and-water joey has the poorest time of all !
When the cook is not complaining, someone else is on
the growl;
Oft the super.’s boot propels him, with a sad, grief-
stricken yowl;
In the shearing time the station is to him a padded cell,
Bringing up the dusty crossbreds with a weary, live-long
yell;
In the hut the suffering joey is the prey of all the skunks,
Who sit swearing in the evening on the edges of their
bunks.
He is not allowed play euchre —he may only squint and
peer—
Yea, the wood-and-wa.er joey hasa sad existence here.
And in Parliaments—like sheep-runs—they employ a
Joey, too,
Who is cursed all round the station, and has mounds of
work to do;
Who is kept to fetch and carry, and is always on the
move;
Whom (no matter how he labors) Premiers constantly
reprove.
He is chased and cursed and harried—he is sore from
head to heel,
And disturbs the mopoke members with his sad and
sudden squeal.
In the State of New South Blanky one Carruthers has the
job, - v
He is wood-and-water Joey to the politician mob.
When Boss See is soundly sleeping, poor Carruthers
must arise—
He must hunt the stray cow-members ere the sun crawls
up the skies ;
He must hoe the session-garden, chop a pile of wooden
Bills;
He must seek for lost supporters’mongst the Legislative
hills.
He’s a picture of pure sorrow—an epitome of grief—
Yea, he suffers woes and troubles past a Christian man’s
belief.
At election time the station is to him a paddocked h—l,
Chasing after crossbred members with an anxious, weary
yell.
Roads and culverts haunt his visions, bridges caper in
his dreams;
Carting visionary water to replenish dried-up streams ;
Rounding flocks of “fluke-y” members—feeding Legisla-
tive pigs—
Killing Parliamentary muttoq—fetching kindling-bark
and twigs.
Chased around and hunted, ever on the melancholy jog— *
Yea, the Joey’s life is worse than the existence of a dog.
He’s a weary drudge and humble, and his wage is always
small—
Yea, the wood-and-water Joey has the worst State job of
all.
GRANT HERVEY.


mm
m
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
A CURE FOR KIDNEY AND BLADDER TROUBLES.
W. N. Willis, M.L.A., as a land agent,
needs no black-tracker to guide him through the
devious paths of the Land Acts. He fights all his
cases, and the harder the task the better he likes
it, and wins'all the time. 21 Bligh-street *
S.M. Herald printed Spruce Myth’s
latest oration on Empire-making in small type,
while putting a football item in type two sizes
bigger. Mr. Myth is now not so much opposed
to a new morning paper.
Chamberlain’s great speech at “Glaskie”
must have set poor old John Bull cudgelling his
brain as he never cudgelled it before. And the
consumption of D.C.L. whisky has, no doubt,
increased in the British Isles from 320,003ga15.
per hour or thereabouts to 500,000 gals. or there-
abouts. Bull has fully arrived at the fact that
D.C.L. is the king of brain tonics—the salvation
of nations —the consolation of the wearv—the
Whusky o’ the Wise.*
Mr. CHAS. BURNETT, Jefferson, Pa., May
18, 1899, writes J
“I had a very severe attack of LA GRIPPE. My
physician recommended Jayne’s Expectorant. When I
had taken two bottles of this medicine I WAS COM-
PLETELY CURED.”*
Ninety-five per cent, of the men who are bald
have upon the scalp a light colourless “down.” It is
beyond all question that the original root or bulb must
be in existence, or this “ down ” would not exist, and it
is orly a matter of supplying the hair bulbs with the
proper nutriment to make it into strong and healthy
hair. A perfumed preparation will not do his, but a
medical preparation such as Capilla Tonic will do it. A
half-crown bottl from your chemist will prove its
sterling merit.*
Gloveless Hands
but clothed in Rings,
are now the fashion
for the evening.
The hands are there—beautiful, of
course.
The Gloves were—well, unnecessary
—too hot.
Marquese Ring,
Diamonds and
Sapphires, £l2/12/-
Sapphire & Diamonds,
£l5; 10/-
Choice Whole Pearl
Ring,
£5.
The KdnJ n^' in brilliance f and a f rti ? fc . ic effect-a standard of the taste of the
refined desPgns ’ necessary to go to high prices to get exquisite effects and'
There are Rings and Rings. Some are gross shows of gold, with stones thrown in Others nn
expensive—are Art Productions that always charm. ‘WE MAKE THEM. ’ CrS D 0 more
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hnnter St.
“ Bob R. ”: A couple of bush
idylls: Having occasion, t’other
day, to get a man with team of
horses, I spent a half day ’mongst
the "cookies” of a N.S.W. agri-
cultural district. Struck a bark
humpy first, around the door of
which several semi-naked “ kids ”
and a few half-starved drooping
hens stood. A miserable woman
clothed in hessian came out and
inquired my business. Told her.
“We are very poor,” she said,
“and haven’t a team now; they
are nearly all dead ! ” As an after-
thought, she continued: “You
must be very poor, too, if you
haven’t a team?” Admitted it.
“ How many children have you ? ”
she ventured to ask. “Only five,
so far!” “Ah!” she continued,
“we have thirteen; it’s the chil-
dren that break us down ! ” At
another place a bony, gaunt woman
greeted me. The husband was
working on a station for £1 per
week. She had sixteen of a family.
“How on earth do you find room
for them ? ” I asked as I looked at
the couple of little huts which was
their all. She took me to one of
them divided into two sections.
The earthen floors were covered
with a few old sheepskins and dirty
blankets. “At dark, after their
tea, I round them all up, the girls
I put in here and the boys in here,”
indicating the two sections, “and
lock ’em up. They’re used to it
and give me no bother 1 ”
• * •
“Narine” tells of strange
consumption-cure :
In the early ’9o’s a consumptive young Englishman was
on a station in Mungundi district, partly for “colonial
experience,” but chiefly for the benefit of the dry air of
the plains. When he had been there about a year,
getting little better, pleuro broke out among the cattle,
and it was decided to inoculate the herd ; Mr. Jackeroo
being told off to help the manager. Some of the cattle
had been put through, and were standing in a yard beside
the crush, when an old warrior singled out and charged
the operators. There was a promiscuous rush for the
fence, and in the scramble the inoculating needle was
stuck into poor Jackeroo’s most fleshy part. Next day
he began to swell, and continued swelling until he was
the size of a hogshead, and his will was drawn up. But
the swelling went down, and apparently took the lung
trouble with it, for the erstwhile Jackeroo is now as
sound as any man on the station.
• * * *
In the early drought years old residents
all over the States assumed the mantle of the
prophet and spoke sagely of the signs of the
coming break-up. The ants had begun to climb
up the trees, and the blackfellow had (sometimes
in consideration of “tickpen”) added his testi-
mony to the near approach of floods and shifted
his quarters. But the drought kept steadily on
till it had broken things up. Now old residents
of Hamilton (Vic.) way predict tornadoes,
for magpies are building their nests on the
ground in sheltered places. Writer, some years
ago, found a magpie’s nest.on the open plains with
no other shelter than a wire fence afforded, and
yet that Spring was the mildest he experienced.
The habit of prophecy is a bad disease amongst
old residents.
THE “WEIRD EXPECTANCY” OF THE AUSTRALIAN.
BILL (lying alongside fire): “ Would yer mind shiftin' the fire back a bit, mate. I’m dashed
near roasted.”
A strange sight on far north S. Australian
tracks lately has been two waggons, carting mine
supplies, and drawn by 110 donkeys. A team of
55 donkeys takes up considerable room; but so
far, even two teams of that size don’t seem to
have crowded anything else out. By the way,
dry and dusty Broken Hill used to get most of its
supplies of beer by donkey-team before the rail-
way was built; wherefore the woolly digger came
to look upon the despised ass much more affection-
ately than usual.
OUR ARTIST UP COUNTRY.
ARTIST (continuing his circuit round tree): “ By-the-bye, sir, would you be good enough to tie up this creature
until my sketch is finished i I want to put him in the foreground, and he wont let me.”
SELEUTOB (rather enjoying the circus): “ Well, yer see, that’s 'is bloomin’ modesty.”
A writer in Sydney Evening News recently
told a gruesome story of the early days of the
Clarence—how the English settlers, exasperated
by continual thefts of flour by the blacks, orga-
nised a party, and massacred a whole tribe of 200
or 300 men, women and children, on the banks of
the Orara. Many of the bodies were left in the
Orara, and a fresh carried them out into the
Clarence and past Grafton, where they furnished
the first evidence of what had occurred. The
same old resident tells of how another troublesome
tribe was got rid of near Grafton in the early
days. Poison was mixed with some bags of flour,
which were carefully placed in a hut for the
blacks to steal. The blacks duly stole and used
the flour, and it is said that the bodies of 700
victims of that crime were counted.
* * * *
“ Chasselas ” : Be par (Bulletin 10/9/’O3)
on doctoring horses with broken bones. When a
lad I saw a valuable draught foal break his leg
above the hock, and the sharp end of the broken
bone protruded through-the skin. The oldsters
were going to shoot the.foal, but I pleaded to be
allowed to try and save it. I strapped two pieces
of bark over the break and slung the animal to the
rafters of a shed. In eight weeks the foal was
about and doing well. Later it was sold in
Ballarat market, when horses were fairly cheap,
for £27 10s. It was impossible to detect anything
wrong with it. Have since successfully mended
the broken leg of a young racing pony. The
chances of success with old horses are small.
Mr. John Riely, of Moonbi (N.S.W.), who
claims with great confidence to be a weather seer,
sends this forecast for the next few months: —
On or about 20th November next heat waves will pass
over New South Wales. On or about December Ist heavy
rains will fall. During January, 1904, floods will occur.
Also a heat wave will reach us February next.
Some of these prophecies seem rather indefinite.
February, for instance, is the second hottest
month of the year—just a fraction behind Janu-
ary—so it would be remarkable if there wasn’t a
heat wave then.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a, hostile character) will betaken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and,
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Hugh Stone: We’ll run it in here, where it will
do most good
H.E. : King David’s matrimonial habits are not ot
much interest to Australians to-day.. ..Boy : Well, the
South Africans have some reason for treating the Aus-
tralians as “ scum " ; many of them behaved as such
during the war. And don’t howl about how Australians
“fought for” South Africa. They fought to keep the
conquered South African Dutchmen conquered, and to
rivet the chains of the London Jew more tightly round
them. Why should the mass of South Africans regard
Australians otherwise than as a Pole regards a Cossack ?
.... Bonny P.: Ludicrously bad in both prose and verse.
... .Philgarlic : - You don’t give title of verses inquired
about Touchstone: Incongruity too violent
Imogen : A pretty little story, but too Sunday-schoolish.
W.B. (W.A.) : Can’t say—at this distance of time....
Andrew H. : A ludicrous mistake. “Bottomry” means,
practically, a mortgage granted over a ship in an out-
port, to be repaid, with a premium, upon arrival home ....
Syco : “ Have I any originality?” Well, your spelling is
certainly original Harry S.T. : Yes; if you can give
the date approximately....D.J.T. : Not enough in it....
Claude A.M. : Not quite good enough in detail Honor
Bright: Too implicative and shapeless.. .Viva : Painfully
conventional language,. . . A.B.T. : You’ve got the bones
of a good story, but there’s no meat on them Tiresias :
Felt sorry at having to tackle such a mass—and sorrier
still when we got through J.S.W. : One much too
long, and the other commonplace in subject and treat-
ment... .Crux : Not without reading it... .Swinglebar :
All facile, but all flimsy.... Opal K. : Nothing remarkable
about them, except the spelling and id. short postage.
....Tammas: Too stiff and stodgy... ..Jas. C. : Briefly—
when you had gone easterly round the earth in 24
days you -would have 24 times counted 23 hours
as 24, thus having 24 hours’ surplus. This is
balanced by dropping a day at longitude 180
Caro : “ Two and a Woman ” is crudely handled, and the
“ situation" has been used before Billy Brimm : Not
of the slightest use... .Rita S. : “ Goblin Track ” rather
strained and artificial. “ Off-Day ” has good points, but
is somewhat crude and unequal in the handling... .Ruis t
Reflections somewhat trite and obvious, and style lacking
in strength and symmetry.. . .S.R.F.H. (Limestone):
Best that can be said is that it is unusual verse—very
unusual.... C. : “ Heart’s Desire” rather bumpy verse...
Zaida : Only one of them shows any trace of gift... .Tim
B. : Sheer waste of time to tinker with it any longer....
F. : Life is too short for such a dreary disquisition.
S. M‘C. : Spoilt by its numerous irrelevancies. A
clean-cut outline is as necessary to a story as to a statue.
....Humble B. : Can’t buzz in Bulletin Ardach (or
something like that) : You have a “front” to expect us
to wrestle with Such abominable scribble Roy : You
have imagined a vain thing Rui : Depends moie upon
natural gift than upon any special training. Being a
university graduate will not help you much.. .Will 0. :
Youhave very nearly arrived this time F.D. :It will be
returned in due course. You were answered in B. l/8/’03...
G. : Can’t say for certain. He certainly doesn’t use
the name you mention, but if he is a Bent servant or any-
thing like that it is accountable. Also his letters go to a
town about 20 miles from the one you mention. Better
view your friend with modified suspicions Dick W. :
Poem commencing “ Her lovly form wich now I see ” to
hand San Remo : That lunatic “tig” event has “just
happened ” has it. Curiously enough the story appeared
in Bulletin about a dozen years ago.... Three O.’S :
“Want Another Loan” has got the deaf staggers....
Rambler : Too many frayed old properties—“ the orb of
day,” moon’s “pale effulgence," “starry dome,” “lonely
shore,” etc. We feel mad enough sometimes to kick the
“lonely shore.”.. .E.V.B. (Sydney): None quite up to
mark. They are weepy, with a tendency to weep about
nothing in particular A.M.B. : You say “ the decease
of Speaker Brown leaves Tasmanian Assembly without a
member who has sat in previous Parliaments; this record
will not’■ -mailed for many a day.” Great Scot! What
about Pro,,. ig, Lyne, Nicholls, Patterson and the rest?
It is paragraphs like this that make us afraid to use your
matter lest we should fall in.... Adelaide P. (or V. or R.)
Verses commonplace, though they have pretty lines here
and there... .The Waster : “ Old Slip-rails” very ordinary
jogetty-jog verse Flabby Paul: Not enough in it....
L. : Spoiled by the perpetual rhyme of 1 ' grass ” and
“ alas.”.. ..A.N.G. (Melbourne): When a writer states
that ho doesn’t want any payment for his poem it i 9
generally worth just that much... .H.M.N.: Seems to be
no valid evidence of cancer-cure by molasses... .M.E.O.*:
Both yarns are weak and wordy. We don’t returh pars.
If vve did; we’d have no time for anything else.. ..Mor-
timer :No ; “an extempore address” is as wrong as “a
■’ murderously, assault”, would be. “Extempore” is an
! j adverb; the adjective.is “extemporary,” or “extem-
poraneous.”. ...K.D.R.;! Obvious truisms do not need
such solemn enunciation A.J.T.: Too crude. You
have much to learn yet of article-writing... Tundun ;
Humdrum.. ..Tokay : And all that doesn’t atone for him
being a C.M.G. No use'either in digging up facts about
semi-celebrities who are worth a par. only once—when
they die...;E.J. Lacks a climax Apro Pos.: No
thanks; send to Dead Bird or Pink ’Un R.H. : We
can’t print things to oblige anybody. This paper is
mostly run to disoblige people Vul.: (1) Your pars.
are. always far too wordy. (2) When writing about a
police-court case it is always necessary to send a news-
paper clip to verify facts Spring: Rather too naked
a subject for publicity. Why is there such a ten-
dency, as Spring comes, to doff one’s literary cloth-
ing and rush into print more or less exposed?....
M. : Will print “Tired.” Rhaupo : Came very near
printing “ Myall Creek." Fayre : Will print “Protest.”
A.P.: Will print “Night.” G. Wyndham : Your
stock of rhymes gives out and metre breaks down badly
in last verse Roma : “ Bereft” might have passed if it
wasn’t that we. are overstocked with tearful verse, and
the manager thinks seriously of laying himself out for the
obituary advt. business to use it up A.F.W. (Sydney) :
Verses hardly in Bulletin vein. Many thanks A
Buyer for 20 Years: So you “doubt our sincerity*'
because we advocate the breaking up of large estates,
and.don’t recognise that “the largest estates are in
Collins-street, Melbourne, or George-street, Sydney.”
And the largest estates in your idea, no doubt, used to
be in Nabopolassar-street, Babylon, just where the tram
drawn by Israelites turned up Merodach-Baladan-street;
bub Babylon is. gone, and you get down to the fact that
100,000 acres in the Hunter Valley is a big estate and a
city allotment isn’t. The Koh-i-noor is a b>£ estate in
much the same way as a Collins-street quarter-acre.
What most concerns the public is that when one man
owns £260,000 worth of land in the Western district,
he has power to prevent the soil yielding food for,
perhaps, 4000 people. The ownership of £250,000 worth
of land in Collins-street represents the power to
prevent the growing of enough food for about half a
person. Therefore, the former man is the worse evil. ..
K.S.O. : Both very crude and sloppy Sestius M. ;
Introduced oration too long, and general interest rather
slack.... Marmion : “ Ku-klux,” or “ ku-klux-klan ”is an
imitation of the sound of cocking a rifle F. 8.8.: A
mere brutality unredeemed by any skill of treatment
Jimmy W. : Unmelodious and dreary.... Beta : Better;
but still not good enough.. ..W.M'B. : Praiseworthy
perseverance, but we fear it is wasted I.L. : It ia
simply impossible to acknowledge all pars in corres. col.
If we did the. column would run to pages. As a rule only
articles, stories and verse are noted. Only one or two of
your items usable.... C.P. : (1) “What is there in Bron?”
Humor, sir, humor. (2) You have evidently a curious
idea of the quantity of poison used in the ordinary pre-
scription.. .. J. B. Sandgroper : But these poor inefficient
wretches aren’t on the “road to Hell "with any dead
certainty of getting there. The road is choked with
K.’sO.M.G. and the founders of land banks and members
of the Upper House.... Unsuitable: L. W. S.
THE REV. DILL MACKY'S CALVES.
(This is the important end of the rev. gentleman.)
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
R.J.D. : Very crude... .N.B. (Auckland): One may do
as suggestion W. Varle : “ The drops of rain were the
size of a shilling or even eighteenpenee.” That’s terribly
01d... .Democrat: Will probably use J.R.: Ikey Mo
sketch in pencil of no use R.A. : Wool witticism only
the old thing—picture of two men who might be saying
anything to each other G.F. : Two bad drawings ; two
dull gags... .Unsuitable : Mother.
Unto the editor he said :
“ I have a little thing,
A pome writ of bird and bee,
Of Life when it is spring.”
The editor then low replied :
“ 1 have a little thing,
A poem writ in polished steel,
But Death is in its spring.”
The writer of the bird and bee,
Who saw that little thing, y
He didn’t stay to say “ Good day,'?
For Life was in his spring.


George Reid starts another tour of Vic-
tona, to conduct a freetrade campaio n
having nothing else to conduct. ° *
“ That this meeting strongly opposes the
faction of certain councillors in favoring
:the granting of the Victoria Park for tho_
of holding political meetings on
ptlio Lord's day - Resolution carried.
Politicians and other doubtful charac-
ters should he barred from public parks
and gardens. Conveners of religious
meetings might bo admitted on presenta-
tion of their collection plates.
thfft th e „ " ,
‘ tJ; o r !’ e, ’ e H?** Sh l>n or' 0
AS?*®
SoC '^|
M The Income
Tax payer, instead
of receiving the re-
lief which he fully
expected, is still
called upon to pay I
fully half of ihe\l
emergency
tion to which he
was condemned
last year " — Age.
MaVID *35
Side
p-H mdn, man
Where's IRe use o'
chppin’ * Vslhv diiwid/p
"ic come 1o IHe/f|p
Toinf?” / m
-ftp:
fe
I ~To Hi«g> T>qc
harp J.ike my own
jjk c dn so drearAy pla>{.
wherever I ego
poor do^lrd^
'jL John
Jr , ihe Ellers
y my dedr,
fku'Ti must l?e
nofrojef
S 'f
Income tax rate cm Income'from pro-
perty reduced 2d in the £1 in all grades,,
and on income from personal “Exertion Id
in the £1 in all grades. There had also
been a saving on old-age pensions of
£82,000. In future years the vote for old-
age pensions will be limited to £150,000 a
i year.
Mr. Hick ford moved' ap an amendment
of one clause of the Factories Act that
where female operatives -were eniulovedcpa
at work similarly performed v by male "
wages should. toeVijtlaJ
TliisutTea was promptly slain. 'PortEy Peh
. SKIN Q&AFTLNQ..
Irvlne.—“You Wok his shirt, I take his
skin. It will serve to reHbv& the other
poor man's great’irritation."'
Portly Person {.canvassing for a federal
.seat)“Don't. forget, jny little dear}
that my influence in state politics)
secured you fcbe privilege of doingfa3
man's wofet for a child's pay." °
ROUND ABOUT MELBOURNE.


In ft letter to Sydney D.T., N.S.W.
general-agent Copeland suggests the
appointment of (1) Lord Tennyson, (2)
Lord Jersey to positions in the British.
Cabinet.
RE THOSE RHODES SCHQLARSHIPS—A
DEPUTATION TO THE RhODES-ANP-BriDOKS MAN
OF THE FUTURE.
The Minister : “ Well, What work are you fitted for t"
The Deputation : “ We can dig out Greek roots.'*
j. U>
o %
j^X***'
C V^ a ’
I°*-
Yes-No Reid Has been
invited to contest tbe
Illume electorate against
IBill Lyne.
i “This favored person was Mr.' Randolph Bed-
ford, of Sydney. _ fte hastened to Rome, anti
sought the privilege of a Papal audience. This
he obtained, and he has now gone away delighted
with it."— Freeman’s Journal. .
Randolph the Reckless: “Here Pope, old
boy, in return for that blessing I can put you
oirtoareal good thing—tui dashed wild-cat.
but a real pure merino—allVlool to the toes"
Rbid : “ Fight one your 6’ifrn sue ! ”
Lvnb ; “ Fight one your own weight' "
c>
AV
/<? W' *
v? <? *
// Z
,J? $ *P
a>VV
*&-*{?
"Being in theN.S.W. Legis'lH|w|u (
lative Assembly last Friday Si 1 F*
evening, I could not help feel- ffl|
ing that it was matter for eotvi Y regret. „
that the language used <Xx-
tirely out of keeping with Vne presence i
women, and unfit for publication. In the .Old. <
Country, when I was a girl, one was recom- /
mended to read the Parliamentary debates if f,
one wanted to get a good .grip of the Queen’s i ,
English, as it was then called, and the check /' i
used for tndiscrSet language* was wont to be :/ J
tThat is not Parliamentary.’ ’’ —.4 girly
reapindant to Sydney D.T. (
But there are various sorts of girls—some like
a little color in the debates.
Remark by a Westralian Minister
in the local Assembly Members
must not be all »wed to carouse outside,
and afterwards stagger in.”
Why not a chalk-line test in the entrance passage T
A GENERAL LOOK ROUND.


A. SAUNDERS,
FOR HANDSOME AND USEFUL ' PRESENTS,
JEWELLERY, SILVERPLATE. LEATHER, AND
WATCHES, CLOCKS,
OPTICAL GOODS.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE.
Pure Silver-plated on hard Nickel Silver,
Beautifully Chased and
Ornamented, 355, £2, £2 10s.
Similar line, 25s and 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated BUTTER DISH,
Gilt inside. Glass Drainer, 255.
Other similar styles, 20s, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cut-glass Solid Silver-mounted
KNIEE RESTS. 12s 6d.
Size larger, 15s 6d, 20s.
IWHUnaan-wiunuMiM!
iliti SSB
■
"I'iT'ra. ;
A. SAUNDERS.
White China Silver-mounted
SHAVING CUP, 10s ;
other styles, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Handsome Silver-plated Rainbow
Glass JAM DISH, 20s ; other styles, 12s 6d, 15s.
A SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK, Silver-plated,
nicely fluted, 12a 6d ; leaf design, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver
BUTTER DISH, 12s 6d.
Second Quality, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral Crown Derby China BISCUIT
BARREL, Silver-plated Mounts, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated FLOWER STAND,
8s 6d a Pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value CAKE BASKET,
Pure Silver-plated, 21s ; other styles, 255, 30s, £2.
m
A. SAY'vDERS.
Six Pure Silver-plated N.ukel Silver SERVIETTE
RINGS, in Silk-lined Case, 17s 6d.
Solid Silver CHRISTENING CUP, 30s
Extra Heavy, 35a, £2 2s.
Silver-plated, 8s 6d, 10a, 15s, 20s.
"Qu
A. BATJNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated on Hard White Metal
INKSTAND, £2 ss.
raw®
y
A. SATTNDERB.
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver
BUTTER DISH, 20s ; size larger, 255.
A, SAUNDERS.
Specially Made by James Dixson and Sons. Famous English
6ilver-plated 4 o’clock TEA SETS, £2 15s, £3. £3 10s, £4, £4 10s.
Please Send
FOB OUB
Illustrated
Book of
Novelties.
Gent.’s Companiou TOBACCO BOX, Ash Tray, and
Matchbox to hold 3 Pipes, Nickel-mounted, Beautifully
Finished, 27s Hd.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Pure PEBBLE SPECS, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d ; American
Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ; Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 355, JB2 ;
Scientifically Adjusted to suit you.
POST
FREE.
mui
Pare Silver-plated on Hard White Metal 4 o’clock
TEASPOONS, 6 in Silk-lined Case with Tongs, 12s 6d.
Embossed Handles, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value °n Nickel Silver
ENTEEE DISH, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Baby’s BRUSH, with Silver Name,
Very Soft, 5a 6d.
m
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES, First-class
Lenses, good effect, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255. 30s,
£2, £2 10s, £3, and £4 10s to £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Shell-shaped
BUTTER DISH and KNIFE, 12s 6d.
Larger, Al Quality, 21s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted CARVING KNIFE, FORK, and STEEL ; they are made of the Very
Best Steel, securely riveted, hand-forged and finished, in a Silk-lined Case, 15s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Electro-plated on Hard White
Metal Lunch or Dinner CRUET, 21s.
Four O'clock CAFE FORKS,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard White Metal, 20s,
255, and 30s ; similar styles, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hot Water KETTLE,
Beautifully Chased and Engraved,
Pure Silver Electro-plated,
England’s Best Make, £2.
Embossed, £2 10s, £3 15s.
lonoqn&stqnkv
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated JAM SPOON and BUTTER
KNIEE in Silk-lined Case, Ss fid.
-V'-
■CtAWSSaSi
Four-Cup EGG FRAME, with well for
4 Ex bra, Esfgs and So v>ns. Pure Silver-plated
on Nickel Sliver, 355.
/
—H
N
1 -r i
A. SAUNDERS.
nmiiTn i 1 •>. Pair. Handsome Gilt Bedruom CLOCK,
FLORAL STAND, Ruby o>ass. 12s bd F g s cd ; similar styles. 10a 6d. 12a 6d, ISs,
17s 6d, 20s, 22s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid English Oak-mounted Silver-
plated on Said Metal
DINNER GONG, £2 ss.
W'
%
i
%
A. SAUNDERS.
Baby’s Pure Silver RATTLE,
very useful, 4s 6d ; extra heavy, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s Pure Silver SHAVING BRUSH
and'SOAP DISH,
in Silk-lined Case, £2 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Gent’s SH AVING BRUSH, 5s 6d
Extra Mounts, 7s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ivorvette
SERVIETTE RINGS,
Pure Silver Initials,
Is Each.
5s 6d Hall-dozen.
■ K
Gent.’s Leather ROLL, containing 2 Hollow-ground
Razors, Corn Knife, Nail Scissors, Twee_zers, 20s, 2os;
similar with i Razor only, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
AND OPTICIAN.
809,811,813,815 GEORGE-ST.. SYDNEY
ill (OPPOSITE KAILWAY STATION.)


m
An Up-to-Date Firm.
We must compliment Mr. A.
Saunders, the well-known
Jeweller, on his forethought
for the public want. This il-
lustration shows a pin, chain,
and charm to hold a miniature
photo. The fashion at the
present time is midget photos. ,
and to meet the fashion Mr.
A. Saunders is now manufac-
turing gold pendants for this
photo. It is simple, neat, and
most ladylike, and is extreme-
ly inexpensive, the price being
only Bs. 6d. post free to any
part of the Commonwealth.
Obtainable onlyfrom A. Saun-
ders, Sydney's leading jewel-
ler and optician, 809, 811, 813,
815, and 817 George-street,
opposite Railway Station,
Sydney.*
Biliousness Banished.
BILE BEANS AGAIN PROMINENT.
That Bile Beans do undoubtedly cure Bilious-
ness in its most severe forms is a well-proved
fact throughout Australia. Many past sufferers
owe their present freedom from that distressing
complaint to the medical properties of Bile Beans.
Just as one illustration, Mrs. Ellen Keating,
“ Louisaville,” Belmore-street, Enmore, Sydney,
says:—“ln my opinion, your Bile Beans are a
splendid remedy for biliousness and its attendant
evils. I had been troubled with biliousness, with
the symptoms of splitting headaches, and miser-
able, sickly feeling, with no taste or relish for
food, and was altogether out of sorts. I had tried
many so-called remedies to improve my deplorable
condition, but without avail. Subsequently, Bile
Beans were recommended to me, and having
taken a course strictly in accordance with direc-
tions, I found them a perfect remedy for the com-
plaints from which I had suffered, and always
strongly recommend them to fellow-sufferers.’’
Bile Beans have a world-wide reputation for
curing Biliousness, Headache, Indigestion, Con-
stipation, Piles, Debility, Female Weaknesses,
Nervousness, Bad Blood, Pimples, and all Skin
Eruptions, Bad Breath, Anaemia, Loss of Appe-
tite, Weakness after Influenza, Spring Ailments,
etc. Bile Beans are obtainable from all medicine
vendors, price Is. l|d., or 2s. 2d. large box (con-
tains three times the l|d. size).
BEAUTIFUL EVES & LASHES.
M ORRIS’S^
‘imperial." Ilmperial
ohemists & stores. ]
]£\>e * *
©intment
’ Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-,
Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melb!
The VOLCANIC
AERATING
HACHINE
illUBWiiI li • i uni «* i«u<iuitifaaf n»a •ui lt tti|i|n
THE GENUINE
Automatic Valve Aerator
Used by all leading Melbourne and
country Hotelkeepers.
Money Saving:! Time Saving:!
No Skilled Labor required.
Produces sparkling Aerated Waters of the
Highest Quality.
Absolutely Best and Simplest Machine
known.
A few reasons why the “ Volcanic ” Machine is superior to all others.
1. The Valve works automatically ; no other aerating machine of this-classhas an Automatic Valve.
2. The Water Cylinder holds 10 gals., and has two perforated partitions inside, causing the sparkle so much
appreciated. Weight, 801bs. Copper, thoroughly, tinned inside and outside,
3. The gas tube holds 571bs. pure gas, being much larger than the tubes supplied with other plants.
4. The Turn over Bottling Rack is made of the best metal. Thirty-dozen per hour can be bottled with it.
5. The “ 'VOLCANIC” Machine is the only one of its kind erected in the leading - houses in Melbourne, including—
The Grand Hotel, Parer’s Crystal Cafb, Parer’s The Duke Caf6, Young and Jackson’s, J. Richardson’s Hotel,
Bourke-street, Evans’ Covent Garden Cafe, Lucas Cafe, Town Hall Hotel, Sheehan's New Treasury Hotel,
Rubira’s Cafe, Victoria Coffee Palace, Hotel Metropole, Imperial, Lucas (Confectioner), Bath’s Hotel,
Britannia, Australian, A.N.A., City Arms, etc., etc. Also many others in the suburbs and the leading houses
in the country.
Price, £3O, with ali accessories.
Smaller Machine on same principle, £2O.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine was the first of its kind introduced into Australasia. It
received the Gold Medal against all competitors at the Ballarat Exhibition.
Write for Pamphlets, containing Testimonials from people who have used the machines for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor. Office: 101 Queen-st., Melbourne. Depot: 130 Cecil-st.,South Melbourne
Business, Robbery, etc.
Australian wines will, no doubt, be helped by
laws against adulteration. But more is wanted. Manu-
facturers must see that shops sell up to quality. While a
shopkeeper can buy a draught wine and is trusted with
corks, capsules and labels, as numbers are
now trusted, eighteenpenny wine will be
bottled regularly as half-crown or three
shillings fluid. That will keep the
trade down almost as certainly as adul-
teration does.
YOUTHFUL SIMPLICITY.
SIGNALMAN OF STEAM-ROLLER: “ Now, then, get out of the road.”
NIPPER: “ Well, don’t get yer ’air off, boss; I won’t damage yer blanky machine.”
P- writes: Competition is so keen nowadays
that tb? man who goes in for variety generally makes
ends .cet more easily than does the man who has to rely
on the one line of business. Man near me keeps a small
grocer.y, odds-and-ends and confectionery shop. He sells
hot pies and peas in winter, and ice in summer, and
stocks fireworks in November. A notice in his shop
reads: “ Razors ground and set.” Having once worked
round, and, in the evening, is open for engagement Is a
comic sinser or for takiiiV flashlight nhoins Hp will
photograptf you fOTthe umblebob any time,°and*goeslri
for picture-framing, but “only as a side line.” He is
married. “In my business, a wife pays,” he says.
‘ten d T’ % r
° r i h ° f gQ ,¥ lt bad t 0 be side-tracked
iitsidc Perth, as the result of a strange little accident,
h.i;‘if ear <<° r W ?B^l.an^ 1 . an ra.hvay
b '”¥ a . 8 -?¥ Car , for Ser J lC u bc ;. twe ? n tbe Oldfields and
“ as a safe built into it, and accommo-
>!ol 10n i, f ° r t '^°. . attendants alongside. Each attendant
Af S (-tl te3 ri a, f d lfc tak ? s . bot:b them to open the doors,
At the end of a recent, journey one of the two bank clerks
n charge couldn t find his key ; and, so far as was known,
there was not a duplicate of it nearer than Kalgoorhe.
+i!I e< iinA V om f< ?, r t bat ,. one ’ bu .tas a Sunday inter-
vened the £400,000 had to he on a side-track till Monday
morning. The missing key was at Kalgoorlie; the escort
was probably thinking of a girl it was going to meet at
the seaside and forgot all about everything else.
* * » *
Fashion threatens to again favor wash-basins
and other toilet furnishings with mottoes on them, and
the shops show them in the windows. Rupert washes
himself in a bowl encircled with some sweet line from
Tennyson in gilt letters, while Emmaline, further along,
has her matutinal rinse in a basin which bears the com-
panion line to complete the rhyme. Whether the things
that are printed on the rest of the toilet furniture rhyme
or not writer doesn’t know. A few years ago, in one
Australian capital, anyone could have bought a large
quantity of this sort of poetical ware very cheap. The
yarn was that, mainly to get him out of their sight, the
partners in a wholesale business sent a junior member of
the house to England as assistant buyer. Arrived on the
other side, somebody planted in him the brilliant idea of
working a corner in this particular variety of furni-
ture. So he went round mysteriously buying it all
up and shipping it out to Australia ; and for
the next few months crockery-ware with poetry on it
poured in upon that warehouse. It wasn’t all respect-
able poetry either. For years afterwards the best part
of a flat was taken up with crates of this crockery, but
it wasn’t safe to mention the existence of it if the bosses
were on the premises. They used at first to try to give
it away, but after insulting several customers they gave
it up as a bad job, and strove to forget all about it.
“P.” protests: “The fat-heads of the firm
who will send a 4ft. 6in. boy to deliver a sft. x 4ft.
parcel ought to have their scanty brains flattened beneath
a letter-press. How often we see an overworked small
boy carrying or dragging an enormous package big
enough to be worthy a place in any carrier’s waggon I
More often than not he isn’t carrying it, but is leaning it
against a window sill or a trough in front of a pub., or
against anything convenient, and panting in a vain
endeavor to get a better grip at the thing. Just as
heartily I protest against babies pushing along hand-carts
and missing sudden death every three minutes under the
hoofs of passing horses. I sympathise with all small carriers
of big parcels ; especially with the tired youngster you
sometimes meet just as you have finished your evening
meal, who is lugging Brown’s new clothes to Brown’s
suburban residence, because Brown told the firm, which
is too mean to employ a carrier, that he wanted that suit
particularly that night, when, in reality, any time in the
next few days would have done as well.
• • • •
“ The Rambler ”: Your mention a few issues
back of late Walter Griffith reminds one of the fact that
he once owned perhaps the biggest diamond found in
Australia. The stone was a solitary one found some eight
or 10 years ago by an old fossicker (R. Richardson) in the
Northern Territory, in a creek called the Cullen, a tribu-
tary of the Fergusson, in turn a tributary of the Katherine
River. The creek in question carries gold, tin, various
sorts of gems, mostly of the cheaper variety, and had at
least one diamond in its bed—Walter Griffith’s stone.
’Tis said up North the stone was valued at £l4O after
being cut.
It is complained that the Tasmanian potato-
export trade is being ruined through the farmers’custom
of putting sundry shovelfuls of earth in each bag to
increase the weight. Wh’ch is a darned foolish thing for
any Tasmanian to do—foolish in more senses than one.
This reckless exporting of the Flyspeck will lead some
day to there being no Flyspeck left,
* • • •
in .°" e f m y earliest situations The manager and pro-
P rletor of fche business was A., a well-known Adelaide
dtizerl nO , W ye ?F office-boy .then was 8.,
nmv even better known than A. One morning B. was a
rowled A. 6 Boy*™ doll his temper. C< “ One thing
“s i 8
her e, 5,6, 7, or 8 o’clock ?’’ (The office was notorious for
the late hours it kept open.) A. glared at the boy for a
moment. “ There is no fixed hour for closing,” he said
fiercely. “ Then,” said 8., “ how d’yer know I’m late ?
i might have been out delivering letters last night and
only just got back. In fact I mightn’t have knocked off
yet.” Boy B. got the sack, and in the next morning’s
paper he inserted this advt.: “ WANTED—An office-boy.
One who can run a mile a minute and who is willing to
work from 9 a.m. till 9 a.m. and do occasional overtime
without any extra salary preferred. Apply to A.”
,*• J t
, ~ ... ~
bins of the principal occupations m Westralia
(not specified in the census returns) is that of “ going off
with the funds.” The number of defaulters is legion.
A secretary who doesn’t close his career by clearing out
™ th th ? loose cash is almost looked upon as a man who
has neglected his opportunities. No one seems to think
a,ly the wO / Be ° f a man for having weighed in short The
manager of a big Perth business house,_asked why he had
taken on a man j list fired out of a rival establishment
!? r embezzlement, said, He s a smart fellow. And
*"hat 18 the general attitude.
This tale was told at an Adelaide court
recently. Bash was a country saddler, and also agent
for Biff and Go’s, boots. Boff was a country publican
who guaranteed Bash. Boff left the country town and
came to the city, gave Biff and Go. verbal notice that he
had withdrawn his guarantee, and thought the matter
settled. Later on Bash went bung. Biff and Co.
sued Boff. Boff defended the case, and had to board,
lodge and drunk Bash (who came to town as witness) at
his city hotel for nothing. After a good, hard fight Biff
and Go. got about a fifth of what they sued for. That
didn’t pay them, and when Boff had paid his lawyer and
kept Bash in existence for a week he wasn’t satisfied
either. The only man who enjoyed the outing was Bash,
who caused all the trouble. In the country he went
broke, and when he came to the city he went on the
bust.
“Bunny”: The Opal Miner (White Cliffs,
N.S.W.) prints an interview with a German opal-buyer
just returned to White Cliffs from Germany. Said the
Sherman middleman : “The improvements at Idar were
wonderful. I hardly knew the place. Since I was there,
a few years ago, mansions have been built all round the
town, and it has all been done out of opal." The Opal
Miner comments: “Yet ’tis strange, but true, that the
majority of miners in White Cliffs are living in very poor
mansions; but perhaps they will find comfort in the fact
that their labor has built up a beautiful town 13,000 miles
away.” Jusso. Made in Germany out of Australia—
because the gougers prefer to trust foreigners, and are
too tired to co-operate for anything except cheap beer.
* * * *
In 1902, according to German trade returns just
issued, Germany bought from Australasia goods to the
value of over £6,000,000 and sold to Australia goods to
the value of over £2,000,000. Result, a cash balance
of £4,000,000 in this country’s favor to enable it to pay its
British creditor. Almost all the money that enables Aus-
tralasia to stave off its British creditor arises out of Ger-
man and other foreign trade. Germany admits wool and
most of the other things we have to sell in large quan-
tities free of duty, and it is almost the largest purchaser
of Australasian wool now. This country had better think
twice before it kicks Kaiser Bill’s country too hard to
oblige Chamberlain. What is Britain going to give us
for kicking one of our best customers with a preferential
tariff ?
“V ia”: The reported discovery of alluvial gold in
the bed of the River Dee, near Rockhampton (Queensland),
recalls the cat floated some 15 years back as the Mount
Morgan and River Dee Mining Co. Mount Morgan shares
were £l6 then, and anything with the wondrous name
tacked on to it had a good chance of flotation, as the pro-
moters knew. Things went well for them until a southern
expert reported that the main shaft was sunk in the
centre of the river bed, and the first inch of rain would
drown it out. That busted the show, but not before the
promoters got over £20,000 in cash and p.n.’s from a
credulous public. The writer did in a little, but he
sinned in good company, as the syndicate had paper of
MTlwraith’s, Parkes’, Robertson’s, and a host of other
well-known Australians. Two very wild cattists got six
years' penal servitude for perjury at Brisbane shortly
after the bubble burst.
• • • •
Melbourne was lately in the throes of a strike
without knowing it. The yellow heathen who make the
time-payment sideboard and easy chair objected to
certain of their employers combining, and forthwith
ceased work in those shops. Ah Fat has some 28 societies
in Melbourne, comprising about 500 unionists, the societies
are understood to demand an initiation fee of £3 andweekly
contributions of from 3s. 6d. to ss. ; consequently Ah Fat
is financially sound. Also, he seems to be unanimous. He
has no 8-hour or 20-hour day, nor does he prance round
the city behind a banner and a drum, but when, the other
day, he ceased work in 25 shops those establishments
were hung up till the unpleasantness was settled. Strike
pay was 15s. a week and the funds were said to be strong
enough to stand 18 months of it, but the thrifty heathens
didn’t propose spending their accumulations in that
fashion. As fast as they struck nearly all the strikers
were absorbed in other shops, and as there were no black-
legs available (Chinese blacklegs are supposed to die
suddenly), the trouble ended almost as soon as it began.
* » * *
The first motor-omnibus service in Australia'
was inaugurated in Perth (W.A.), t’other day., The
vehicles are running between Perth and Victoria Park, a.
suburb not yet served by the electric trams. At present
only 12-horse power motors are being used, but others of
24-horse power, capable of carrying 30 passengers each,
are to be added to the service shortly. If the experiment
proves a success, the promoters intend to run a similar,
service throughout Perth and Fremantle districts. It,
might not be a bad spec, for the Owe’Sullivan to experi-
ment with a similar service in localities where the traffic'
doesn’t warrant the expense of putting down a permanent'
way for the trams.
* * * * i
Spite of persistent heavy fining, Melbourne
Oily Council is quite unable to cope With its hawkers. It
isn’t irame to utterly abolish them, though, in the inte-'
rests of the shopkeepers and their landlords, it would
like to do so. Swanston-street, on Saturday-morninga,
is now almost impassable for them. Writer counted 70''
along one block lately, and it seems to be only a question
of time when even Robert Reid and Co. will have to send
their softgoods round on barrows to keep pace with the
times. The Swanston-street hawkers sell fish (fresh,
dried and salt), fruit (fresh and dried), crayfish, oysters,
ferns, flowers, pot plants, asparagus, celery, etc. Any-
thing novel or just in sells quickly—a barrow-load of
pansy plants in bloom, at 2d. each, was cleared in an
hour, t’other morning, while another of asparagus, at 3d.
a bundle, vanished just as speedily. The Greek and '
Italian undesirable still sticks to flowers and fruit; he
never touches anything new until some enterprising
Australian has shown the way.
* * * *
“Jim Pan”: The liquor that is swallowed
round about Behind-Beyond-Back-o’-Out-Back is locally
known as “ Three M’s.” Mulga Mat explained to me
that this name is an apt abbreviation of Mulga Madness
Mixture. It is seriously said that it’s not so bad when -
one’s used to it; but I do not’think that anyone ever
lived long enough to get used to it.
* * * *
A. few years back an old, tattered wreck button-
holed passers-by in King-street, Sydney, and asked them
to stand in with him and form a syndicate to tunnel
through the earth to London. He had extensive plans
drawn up, time-tables, drawings of cars, and estimates of
cost. He died before he marketed the scheme, and all
particulars are lost.
The Melbourne time-payment furniture people
have been having a bad time lately. In one case, a firm
endeavored to foist goods that were never ordered on an
unsuspecting householder, who wouldn’t take delivery.
He was accordingly sued for the amount, but the case
was dismissed, and the defendant got 10s. costs for lost
time. In another case, a country family came to town
and ordered a piano, paying a deposit. It got a
mongrel animal of the same breed, but not the one
ordered, so refused to receive it. Defendant’s daughter
stated to the Bench that “ she wanted a piano, not a tin
pot.” This case was also dismissed. A time may even
come when a time-payment man will get into trouble for
declaring that the furniture was ordered when it wasn’t.
* * * •
“ Wer.” : Re discrepancies in wool weights (B.
27/6/’O3). Bales are very often found to weigh
more, and are sometimes found to weigh less,
on arrival at Sydney stores, than they did at
the wayback stations. Added weight in these cases
is not always the result of absorption of moisture
en route. Pressing is mostly done by contract, and the
terms of agreement require the presser to put, usually,
not less than 3Jcwt. or more than 3fowt. in a bale—a very
small margin when one has to gauge by bulk in the boxes.
There is no trouble about the minimum, but bales often
go iewt. over the maximum, and, as they have to be
sewn before they can be taken out and weighed, it means
a lot of trouble and wasted time and labor to take the
wool out and press it over again. To avoid this, the
presser (who weighs and marks as he goes) marks it a lb.
or two under the 3|cwt. Consequently, managers do a
lot of cursing every season, and go to a lot of trouble
testing and re-testing their scales.
• * • •
“WarE.”: Re tolls on bridges (B. 10/9/’O3).
Knew one that paid more than the keep of the man in
charge— the old wooden bridge over the ’Bidgee at Wagga.
It didn’t cost much at the start, but the shareholders got
never less than 30 per cent., and sometimes over 100 per
cent. or. their money. It was resumed by the Govern-
ment some years ago for £Booo—about 10 times more
than its value when new. The toll-keeper was a big buck
nigger, and the toll had to be paid in specie, failing that
in kind. There wasn’t a chance of bluffing that darkie or
trying to touch his heart with a pitiable yarn—the
company hadn’t a heart.
* * * *
“ G.M.C.” : Re “ Long ’Un’s ” treatment of the
Chow storekeeper (8., 27/8/’O3). When the Oasterton
(Vic.) railway was being constructed the boarding-house
and store “slopers” used to cross the S.A. border to
escape payment. Just before the job cut out, two navvies
who had been good pays right through decided to do a
slope, so one evening went to the pay office and collected
all the money due to them. Then they went to the Chow
storekeeper,, to whom they already owed a fortnight’s
bill, for a bit of tucker for the road, and were persuaded
to each take an overcoat also. Next morning they were
missing, but were overtaken near the S.A. border ‘by the
Chow in a cart. Expected to have trouble with him, but
didn’t. When he got up to them he said, “ You lun away
slopee me ? ” They said “ Yes.” He said, “Me lun awa'y
too—slopee big man in Melbun." And they “ sloped ”
amicably together.
MY RUIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'Twas not the drought that ruined me ;
I own no acre patch.
’Twas neither flood nor family ;
I’m single, and I “ batch.”
'Twas not the income-tax to meet ;
The income-tax I save.
’Twas not through gross extravagance
I keep a strop and shave.
’Twas not the rise in mutton chops ;
I stick to bloater paste.
It was not backing horses, for
I view such beasts as waste.
I never bet,-1 never booze,
And cards I do not play,
While as for billiard-rooms, I swear
I always keep away.
But who and what that ruins me
I’ll tell you as a friend :
It is tobacco-cadgers and
The matches that I lend.
N.S.W.
WILL. CARTER.
THE SQUATTERS’ PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Let anyone think what a boom in station and farm
improvements would take place if good labor were avail-
able at fifteen shillings a week and found Pastoralists’
Review.
Good men at fifteen bob a week,
Lord, send along our way ;
For every job let two mens. >9k,
Lord, send them every day.
Oh, send us men who’ll never dream
Of families—great or small;
Poor eaters send out in a stream,
And tell them each to call.
We pray for men (who never drink)
With foreheads shrunk and small;
Men who of nothing better think—
Or never think at all.
Lord, send us men who’ll work all day
And half the night as well ;
And send up prices, Lord, alway
For what we have to sell.
And so the country saved shall be,
And gone will be our gloom.
Oh, Lord, you’ll be surprised to see
The squatting, farming boom !
VIO.
F.R.


SPECTACLES
m
—FOB—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, t.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to-
ll A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George=St., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
mi
G-O TO TTET.T.-
I(IOIjANJ) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci).
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Btamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the eity.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Dunedin's senior member lately told Pre-
mier Seddon that he was suffering from “dropsi-
cal patriotism.”
Queensland Premier Morgan has a ma-
jority of 13. This is unlucky for somebody—for
Philp probably.
The first case before the Australian High
Court was an appeal from Tasmania in the matter
of a twopenny stamp and a shilling fine.
It would be a graceful concession to our
worried friends at ’Ome if the new Federal
capital were called Cohen town. It might * ‘ help
to restore our credit,” too.
Joseph Cook, M.H.R., has been opening
a new tennis court at Dural—a small village in
his electorate. Federal members ought to be
above doing little chores of that description.
Poor old John Stinson let the cat and all
its kittens out of the bag the other night when he
said—
The People’s Reform League (N.S.W.) was actuated by
the same object as the Employers’ Federation.
Two years ago Victoria spent £293,000 on
old-age pensions ; last year, £210,000 : this year it
proposes to md only £150,000. Under Kyabram
Victoria's bowels of compassion will soon wither
away altogether.
The Freetrade Labor member is a trades-
unionist that won’t tolerate an Australian who
works for Is. a week under the Australian union
wage, but welcomes the products of the foreigner,
who works for 10s. a week less than the Australian
union wage.
Queensland’s new Treasurer, Kidston, is
surprisingly ignorant on some points. He lately
asked the snarling Philp remnant why it couldn’t
do like the Romans of old—draw its toga round it
and die decently.. Did Kidston ever see a Kanaka
with a toga ?
Ex-Home Secretary Foxton, immediately
on his relegation to the Queensland Opposition
benches, gave notice of his intention to introduce
a Bill (in private members’ time) to extend the
franchise to women. Ten days in Opposition got
Foxton further on the path of reform than 10 years
in office.
The struggle to drag in by the hair of its
head some irrelevant jibe at socialistic legislation
is a craze with some people. Hughes, M.L.C.
(N.S.W.), when advocating his Testators’ Family
Maintenance Bill, told the Council that testators
sometimes disinherited their widows because they
knew they would be provided for under the
Old Age Pensions Act. The Old Age Pension
hasn’t been long in force. Can Hughes, M.L.C.,
produce one authentic widow whom he can prove
to have been disinherited owing to the Act ? She
ought to be still alive and available.
A TRULY NATIONAL VICTORIAN
STATUE.
“In the light of the latest Irvine Budget it is proposed
to erect a national monument to the old age pensioner.”
A spontaneous outburst of genuine enthusiasm on
the part of the bell-toppered and white-vested in-
terests is anticipated.
Something really heavy has struck the
Victorian Government. For the late Duncan
Gillies’ seat at Toorak three candidates were
nominated. The Kyabram “Reform” League
man won; the man who ran in the interests of
Peacock’s Opposition was a good second, and
Irvine’s personal candidate, with all the Govern-
ment prestige behind him, was the tail end of the
show.
Amid all the row about N.S.W being
asked to “give away” a considerable area on
which to build a Federal capital, it seems to be
generally forgotten that N.S.W. is asked to give
it to a Commonwealth which is very largely
N.S.W. itself. On a population basis N.S.W.
retains a one-third interest in the allegedly given-
away territory
Newly-elected Senator, Dr. Mackellar
(N.S.W.), is of the right fiscal faith ; but in almost
everything else the Tory notions which he holds—
or used to hold—are at variance with the views of
the N S.W. electors. If he wishes to have a
ohance of success at the forthcoming popular elec-
tions he will need to come out on a decently
democratic platform ; otherwise his prospects are
hopeless.
Westralian Laborites will run W. H.
Carpenter for the Fremantle seat in the House of
Representatives. He is a boilermaker and local
preacher, and used to be the O’Malley’s colleague
for Encounter Bay in S.A. Assembly. Both were
eventually defeated; the King went to Tasmania,
and was triumphantly elected there, scoring more
than twice as many votes as present Postmaster-
General Fysh; while Carpenter fled West.
Britain and France, having shaken hands
in amity, seem to have celebrated the friendship
by going out and stealing Morocco. It’s etiquette
among Powers to ask the other fellow on an occa-
sion of friendship to have a grab, and some nigger
country has to put up the drinks. There will be
a terrible slump in things when the last nigger
has been stolen, and the white Powers have either
to get out of a very bad habit, or else steal each
other.
UP TO DATE.
Rev. Henry Howard, an Adelaide minister, has taken a
lease of Rickards’ Tivoli Theatre for the purpose of hold-
ing meetings for non-church-goers on Sunday night.
It is amusing to see the Philp people, now
in Opposition in Bananaland Assembly, stone-
walling the very estimates they themselves framed
prior to their recent collapse, and which are now
being placed before the ’Ouse by the Morgan
Ministry. Recently they spent a whole sitting
over one solitary item, completely exhausting
their jaw power. Even sleepy Stoddart, who had
been dumb for about three years, was brought
into active service.
Australasian advt. :
YU ANTED, 3 good, general FARM HANDS—drive
” bullocks, plough, and fence. No unionists,
and must be black or brown; permanent employ.
Wm. Lade, Scottsdale, Tasmania.
It should be about up to Australia not to
buy this gentleman’s stuff until he turns black
himself. A man with such a contempt for the
white worker should have an equal scorn for him
in his capacity as the white customer.
Is there to be any prosecution (on lines of
the Taff Vale decision) of those Sydney wool-
buyers who conspired together last week to pre-
vent the sale of the Co-Operative Co.’s catalogue
of wool ? The buyers conspired together to refuse
to bid at the sale, ostensibly because it was not
held in a particular sale-room, which sale-room
is not open to the use of the Co-operative Co.
Not one of the daily papers howled about union
tyranny, or suggested the proseoution of the
brokers.
“ War E. ” : The Pastoralists’ Review
falls heavily on the Bill for the Protection of
Native Fauna; it howls for the blood of the last
kangaroo and paddymelon, on the ground that
they are worm-breeding institutions, and worms
infect sheep! And the same journal demands the
introduction of the leprous Chow and the other
insanitary hordes of Asia. There is not a word of
protest against the infection of the Australian
race by the Northern mongrel; but then the Aus-
tralian isn’t a sheep!
Home Minister Lyne finds
that the public buildings in his control in Victoria had
cost more to put in order than similar buildings in any
other State. They had been practising economy, but it
was false economy.
And when a decent civilised Ministry gets into
power in Victoria it will find out the same thing
on a more extended scale. Kyabramism is one-
half sweat and swindle and one-half the shiftless-
ness of the bad farmer who will let valuable tools
rust for want of shelter.
The rush for the world’s trade. Statistics
of the shipping owned by various States are now
available up to the beginning of 1902, and they
show the three leading contestants carrying on the
struggle thus:—
Increase of Tonnage
in Last Five Years.
Germany 1,020,600 tons
United States .. .. 618,842 ~
British Empire.. .. 617,081 ~
Nobody else seems to be in it just at present.
“M.”: It is scarcely fair to discredit
Neil Lewis (B. 17/9/’O3) with the initiation of that
bastard scheme of amalgamation of the Tasmanian
Houses now incorporated in Propsting’s policy.
The scheme originated with Propsting while
Lewis was Premier, and Lewis, in a weak moment,
adopted and introduced it. In the House of Con-
fusion that would be created the Dry Bones would
retain all their present objectionable powers of
obstruction and of veto. The scheme provides
for the vote by orders. That is the damnable
defect of it.
Vic. Lands Minister Taverner’s tentative
efforts to find “land for the landless ” are good
and pretty, and suit Kyabram all to pieces, but—
all this land now sold will some day have to be
bought back again, and it won’t be bought for the
.£1 an acre it costs now. The other day Taverner
said the Lake Buloke land, for which there were
5000 applicants, was of the best in the State, and
M.L.A. Duffus spoke of it as being equal to any
in the Port Fairy district, where land brought £4O
and £5O an acre. So it is being sold at £1 an acre.
Perpetual leasing would at least prevent this kind
of folly.
George Reid says that the idea of N.S.W.
giving up 1000 square miles of country for a
Federal territory is preposterous —simply prepos-
terous. In that case, George Reid is about the
biggest failure and worst political fraud in Aus-
tralia. It was he who negotiated the special
arrangement by which N.S.W. was to give up the
territory for the Federal oapital, and it
who arranged that it was to be 100 miles or more
from Sydney and to consist of 100 square miles,
or any amount more. George ought to have
reform ised his own preposterousness a little
earlier.
The Tasmanian Upper House has thrown
out the Propsting Government’s proposal to
reduce the State Governor’s salary to £l5OO a year.
It still refuses to assent to the Bill for the abolition
of the tax on incomes derived from personal
exertion, though a compromise is talked of. Also
the Propsting Land Tax Bill has been much
whittled down and is likely to be whittled further,
and the Lotteries Bill and Early Closing Bill have
been rejected by the House of Dodderers. Unless
Propsting is prepared to fight far harder than he
is doing, there will soon be very little of the
Reform programme left.
Another device has been invented by
Victoria’s frozen Ministry to take the crust out
of the mouth of the old age pensioner. That
Ministry, as a stealer of crusts from the poor, is a
wonderful success, and is therefore worshipped by
Kyabram and Co. The latest move is to charge
3d. exchange on each fortnightly payment of 10s.
to the aged poor. Threepence would buy an
old age pensioner a loaf of bread, and the Iceberg
Government, which lives on the fat of the land
and has done so all its life, gaily snatches it from
between the pensioner’s toothless jaws, and goes
on its rose-strewn way rejoicing.
Recently about 130 junior men in the
loco, branch of the Vic. railways were given notice
that they were granted “extended leave” —with-
out pay. A few weeks later they received notice
that they could begin work as line repairers in the
permanent way branch. Which has no doubt
made the fatal Bent very wrathful, if he has any
idea of the incongruity of things. A few months
ago five days a week was considered sufficient for
the men to work to keep the lines in repair. Tait
came and looked at the fallen-to-pieces railways
and ordered full time to be worked. Now 130
more hands are put on to overtake Bent’s post-
poned repairs. All of which is further proof of
the utter folly of appointing an out-of-date
cabbage-gardener as a railway expert.
A Maoriland correspondent :
About Lesina parading vegetables in Q. House of Re-
presentatives (8., 10/9/’O3). Some years ago, E. M. Smith,
the loquacious little lamplighter who sits for New Ply-
mouth, held up in each hand a lump of Mokau coal to
emphasise the resources of “ the garden of Maoriland.”
Earnshaw, who then represented Dunedin city, rose to a
point of order, and asked the Speaker to say whether
“ an honorable member could introduce articles into the
House?” O’Rorke, who might or might not be a better
authority than S.A. Speaker Coles, ruled that Smith was
“ quite in order.” Smith’s precedent has been followed
on more than one occasion since, bub some day a member
may want to bring in a piano to illustrate some point
connected with looal industry, or a keg of honey (which
is calculated to make the" House sticky), and then
O’Rorke’s ruling will be viewed with suspicion.
What really appealed to Speaker Coles, in South
Australia, was the argument that, if he let Price’s
vegetables in, Livingstone (who wanted to get a
Bill through to prohibit the use of weedy stallions)
was going to turn up next day with a mob of
“ exhibits.”
Strange that Freetrade papers should give
such prominence to the letter of that ex-Queens-
lander who wrote to say that Manitoba and North-
West Canada are not in the same street
as the Darling Downs for grain-growing.
If the Darling Downs is such a superior
place, how is it that Canada has the vast
wheat-fields and not Queensland ? Can it
be that Canada’s ironclad Protective tariff
makes it a great agricultural, as well as
manufacturing, country? The Freetrade
press is always explaining what a superior
place Australia is compared with other
countries, most of which are blighted with
heavy Protection or severely burdened by
moderate Protective tariffs of about twice
the average of Australia’s. Yet, somehow,
we never seem to get up to those poor, bur-
dened, blighted communities.
It was exceedingly bad policy—not to
speak of anything else—for Sleath, M.P., to
have done his best to turn the joint sitting of
N.S.W. Assembly and Council for a Senate elec-
tion into a bear-pit turn. The Council’s pet claim
to consideration is that it is an orderly and good-
mannered House. The claim is a very small one,
and of no real account in politics, because every
House should be orderly. Still, it gives the Council
an adventitious title to public respect and sym-
pathy when its quiet is disturbed so rudely ; it is
put in the position of a nice, harmless, old gentle-
man whose garden has been invaded by a billy-
goat.
Bent accidentally blundered on to a half-
ounce of truth the other day, but naturally didn’t
know what to do with it. A Colac (Vic.) deputa-
tion wanted some roads, a railway, and other
trifles, and Bent casually asked a speaker how
much land he had. “ Three hundred and twenty
acres.” “What’s it worth?” “About £5 an
acre; but it would be worth £7 if we had a line.”
And in the face of this admission the man with
the large bingie and the small brain actually pro-
mised to consider their request, instead of telling
them to put up about £1 an acre to help pay for
the line, and have £1 an acre profit on the trans-
action.
Sydney Evening News, in a recent issue,
worked off the silly gibe that The Bulletin is
* ‘ against everything.” If the Evening News were
in favor of half as many things as The Bulletin
it would be a much more wide-awake paper. A
few of the things The Bulletin favors: —
A White Australia, paying off the public debt, building
our public works out of revenue, a Federal territory of
about 6000 square miles of which the Commonwealth
will be the sole ground landlord ; a Federal seaport, an
Australian navy, high Protection, a Federal graduated
land tax and absentee tax, old age pensions on a decent
scale, State bank, State note issue, State life assurance,
compulsory life assurance, breaking up the big estates,
conciliation and arbitration courts, legal minimum wage,
eight hour system, early closing, free education, unifica-
tion of Australia as an improvement on Federation, an
improved local Government system, better factory laws,
locally-appointed Governors, compensation to injured
workmen, irrigation, a general opening up of the well-
watered section of Australia to close settlement, an ex-
tensive re-building of Sydney, a city railway, a North
Shore bridge, greater civility on the part of T. Bent,
State-owned railways, a general freedom from sectarian
rows, State Parliaments of one House (till unification
comes), fewer K.’s. 0.M.G., &c., &c., &c.
The Bulletin is in favor of so many things that
it has hardly time to be against anything—except
the policy of the Evening News.
It isn’t very likely, after all, that Seddon s
retail mutton-shops will hang out their shingle in
England. Lately the price of mutton has been
put up in several M.L. centres, and that, and the
declining sheepstatis-
tics, have set men
thinking. The com-
mittee of inquiry
will probably, for
these and other rea-
sons, report against
Seddon’s idea.
“QUITE HOLLOW , MY FRIENDS!”
“The Reform League was like a large, substantial-
looking bronze idol that he’d read of in China that every
one was in awe of. Some Yankee sailors were inspecting
it one day. 'Hullo ! the blooming thing’s hollow,’ cried
one to his mates. So with the Reform League—it was
also hollow.”—D. MACKINNON, M.L.A.( Vic.)
The fool of a point has been reserved for
the consideration of Victorian Full Court as to
whether English is a European language within
the meaning of the Federal Immigration Re-
striction Act, which prescribes the transcription
by immigrants of 50 words in a European lan-
guage. Dictionaries produced at the lower
Court, where the point cropped up, defined
Europe as a great quarter of land lying between
the Atlantio Ooean and Asia, and between the
Mediterranean and the Arctic Ocean, and if the
British Isles are shut out of Europe then the
western boundary is in great part not the
Atlantio but the North Sea.
The quaint Victorian Society for the Pro-
motion of Land Settlement is already bogged and
wandering round fearfully among the shaky planks
of its alleged platform. It started resolving, the
other day, and almost decided to urge the
Government to acquire greater speed in its land
settlement scheme. Then somebody arose and
stertorously puffed out the alarming observation
that “the Irvine Government’s compulsory land
resumption scheme is pure and unadulterated
Socialism ”; also a motion advocating some form
of a land-tax lapsed for want of a seconder. Then
the comic society adjourned sine die. A Tory
society which wants to settle the people on the
land and yet regards as red revolution any attempt
to find land for the people to settle on, is always
in difficulties.
David Syme has begun to make pin-pricks
in the shining surface of Chief Commissioner
Tait’s hollow reputation. Tait’s way of inspect-
ing the Victorian railway stations and making
himself acquainted with the working of the rail-
way service is an absurdly regal way, as last
Saturday’s Age points out. The departmental
trumpets announce his approach. He is accom-
panied on his journeys by the two minor commis-
sioners, a couple of superintendents, the chief
engineer, the locomotive engineer, the supreme
platelayer, and sundry aides-de-camp. Trenwith.
was a most unostentatious potentate compared
with the new commissioner from Canada. It is
rather early as yet to state emphatically that Tait
is more of a silver-haired figure-head travelling on
his lovely appearance than a practical reformer
of a rotten railway system, but there seems to be
a growing impression that Nature intended him,
for a pianist or a fashionable parson.
THE SITUATION—ONCE MORE.
“Mr. Reid has been delivering vigorous speeches before
a Freetrade League in Sydney.” —Vide Press.
M R. REID: “ I thought Kingston might have taken
me in his boat. Anyhow I reckon I'd better
get back on the old wreck again for a while!"
IMPERIALISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'Tis a feeble ancient monarch
Is that Empire old and creaking:,.
And to clasp our youthful country*
Like to Abishag, ’tis seeking-;
Like to Abishag, commanded
That, as subject woman’s duty,
She should give to doting David
All her youthful fire and beauty-
But no Abishag our land is,
To incur a union hated ;
She, a land of proudest promise,
Shall not thus be meanly mated..
She shall call herself a mother
(While her starry banner flashes);
Mother proud of myriad freemen,
When the frozen king is ashes.
L.


THE CALLAGHAN BOOT
Hard Times
DEMAND
HARD WEAR
BOOTS,
Our
Special
Cheap
Hard
Wear
Boot
m
s
17/6
Post Free
and
Duty Free
Except
to W.A.
THE CALLAGHAN French
Calf Lace Boot, Leather-
lined, in pointed, medium
and square toes.
A really strong,
Boot for city or country wear/
16/6
A Fair sent Post and Duty Free to any address
in the Commonwealth (except W.A.) upon receipt df ...
Please remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note with order.
I'VE SATISFY EVERY CUBTOMER, OR WE RETURN MONEY.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 georce st., Sydney.
17/6
VITADATIO
The Great
Herbal Blood Remedy.
Mr. PARKS, of California Gully, Bendigo,
Victoria, swears that VITADATIO has
cured him of
CANCER
IN THE
TONGUE.
Sl/S/01.
TO MB. PALMER—
I, Frederick Parks, of California Gully, near Bendigo,
in the State of Victoria, do solemnly and sincerely declare
that this is my Testimonial to you on behalf of my cure.
I have been a sufferer with Cancer in the mouth for the
past six years. I went to the hospital, and the first thing
they did was to take the tongue right out. In two
months’ time, after the operation, the Cancer grew again ;
it got larger than before. The doctors said that nothing
could he done, so I went home and was put to bed. I
asked my wife to get me a bottle of VITADATIO. I took
half a bottle that night, and in three days I was able to
take oatmeal and sago, and have had no other medicine
but VITADATIO within my mouth. I can solemnly
declare that the world does not know the power of
VITADATIO. lam the only one living out of forty-five
cases of Cancer treated last year, and can solemnly
swear that only for VITADATIO I would not be here now,
so I think you can guarantee a cure for Cancer, as mine
was a very bad case ; there being no hope, the doctors
said, and now I can take any kind of food the same as
before the operation. And now I make this solemn
declaration, conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of an Act of Parliament of Victoria
rendering persons making a false declaration punishable
for wilful and corrupt perjury.
F. PARKS.
Declared before me, at Bendigo, in the State aforesaid,
this 14th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand
nine hundred and one.
J. M. DAVIES, J.P.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 6/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Oonnell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
m
m
m
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R, VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which will be sent post
free on mentioning this paper.
d
Politics in New South Wales ! Announc-
ing that a road is to be constructed in his elec-
torate by day-labor, Richards, M.L. A., writes to
the local paper:—
In consequence of several cases of real distress in the
locality having been brought under my notice, I have
asked for this expenditure. A communication which
reached me this week is painful to read. Minister
O’Sullivan’s kindly heart responded the moment he
perused the statement.
Responded out of loans, most probably, to help in
accumulating more misery later on. Most of the
misery of Australia is due to a long succession of
kind-hearted Ministers who responded out of
loans.
II
If
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late iriPERIAL),
Corner of GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE
This Elastic Truss
Elastic '
Truss—
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is something better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind' of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Oor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
The Buckland River Gold Dredging
Company No Liability.
"VrOTTCE is herebv given that the THIRD
JLI ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of
Shareholders will be held at the Offices, 6, Ground
Floor, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, on Wednesday,
the 28th October, 1903, at noon, for the following
business.
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance Sheet as
on 30th September, 1903 ;
To elect a Director in place of A. H. Ross, who retires
in terms o.’ the Rules, but is eligible for and seeks
re-election ;
To sanction a dividend, and to transact any other
ordinary business which may be brought forward.
Books of the Company will be closed from 21st to
28th instant inclusive.
By order of the Board,
GEO. G. TURNER, Secretary.
Sydney, 12th October, 1903.
The slump is coming fast in Westralia.
Another instalment has come pff the special inter-
state tariff. The railway boom, when the profits
used to reach 11 per cent, on the cost of the lines, is
dead, and as these big profits weren’t applied to the
extent that the case called for in repayment of the
railway debt, the boom is all the deader. The
shoddy lines begin to cost a lot in repairs. The
great waterworks scheme shows a heavy deficit.
The loan boom has been to some extent suspended
of necessity. And the Treasurer reckons that the
expenditure this financial year will beat the
ncome by over £200,000.
An old Melbourne identity has just
passed away at the very respectable age of
83 years. William Bayles, who was the father
of the Melbourne City Council, was a native of
Yorkshire. Emigrating to Van Diemen’s Land
in 1846, he commenced business in Launceston.
In 1852 he settled in Melbourne as a merchant,
ship-owner and agent. In 1861 Melbourne was
ruled by as “rotten ” a corporation as Dan
O’Connell ever found in old Dublin. The
majority of the members were publicans of the
bad old type, and the ratepayers were waking up
to the fact that a change was needed. Mr. Bayles
was induced to stand for Lonsdale ward. The
returning officer was old Alderman Gallagher, of
the Rose of Australia inn, King-street, the other
candidate being ex-Councillor Kenny, of Sands
and Kenny. Bayles was elected, and Melbourne
was full of angry publicans that night. In 1865
Bayles was elected Mayor. In the previous
year he had gained a seat in Parliament, was
eight times re-elected, and was a Minister of the
Crown for two months under Sladen.
When a deputation waited upon the
N.S.W. Treasurer, the other day, to point out
that Darling Harbor and Black wattle Bay were in
a highly insanitary condition, his reply was :—
That bay has been in that condition tor many, many
years, and is it a fair thing to ask us to do anything now,
when we are feeling the effects of the drought so badly ?
The poor old drought is responsible for all
the sins of the See Government, and is
now a reason why the dead dog cannot be
removed from Darling Harbor. Yet, in spite
of the drought, the Government has had a
greater revenue than any previous Admini-
stration, and it has, on the average, borrowed
more than any other Administration, barring the
fearsome Parkes-M‘Millan combination. Anyhow,
there hasn’t been any drought in the Harbor; it
has been as wet as usual. And the labor required
for fishing out the late lamented animal has been
cheap and plentiful.
Mr. Spruce Myth had a champion fool
point of order against the Federal Capital Site
Bill in the House of Reps., last week. He con-
tended that the Federal Parliament could not fix
upon a site until the site was granted to it by
N.S.W.; and as, until the Federal Parliament
says what site it wants, N.S.W. cannot grant the
site, the effect of this “ point, " if sustained, Vvquld
be to hang up the whole matter for. ever, on the
ground that both parties must move first. There
are certain lawyers who reckon that the law must
be an ass under all circumstances, and when it
says a straight thing in a straight way they
examine the words with a microscope to see if
they cannot be twisted into something utterly
foolish.
“ Z.” : The astute Bill Lyne voted for both
the Federal capital sites in his electorate—Albury
and Tumut. Bill always tries to please every-
body. He voted for Albury first —it was a for-
lorn, God-forsaken site, that was likely to drop
out of the ballot at the first time of asking, and a
man who meant to make sure of getting a chance
to vote for it at all had to vote for it early.
Tumut didn’t matter just then; it was safe to
survive the first ballot without Lyne’s assistance.
Albury only got seven votes, and thereafter Lyne
voted steadily for Tumut. He can now say to his
Albury constituents that he only deserted them
when the case was quite hopeless, while he can
tell his Tumut constituents that he voted for them
five times, and pulled them through. At greasing
a constituent, Bill Lyne has no superior in Aus-
tralia.
It is stated that the Sydney Water and
Sewerage Board has got itself tied in such a hard
knot that this year it won't even be able to extend
its services in suburbs that require’ them and
are willing to pay for them. The Board’s works
are all done with money borrowed for it by'the
State. No effort was ever made to extract enough
revenue out of the services to provide a sinking fund
or depreciation fund which, at an emergency,
might be invested in extensions. No effort was
ever made to pay for extensions out of revenue in
any shape. So the debt is there, and the works it
represents are partly worn out, and for every new
pipe the Board depends on the Loan. And this
year, it seems, New South Wales being quite
helpless without the Loan, new suburbs will have
to drink out of the rain-barrel and empty the
slops in the yard; and even such an old suburb as
Randwick, or a good part of it, will have to do the
same things
What shrunk your woollens ?
Why did holes wear so soon ?
You used common soap.
Sunlight
SOHP
REDUCES
EXPENSE
TYPEWRITERS
mmm
3 of the World’s Best
17
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.B. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE —Webster & Co. ADELAIDE—N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— Hedrey Button.
By Appointment to His Excellency
m
THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL.
NOW READY.
The following celebrated BOOKLETS—in time to send to absent friends, or for home
decoration. Will be more appreciated than ordinary photo, cards: —
No. 1. “AUSTRALIAN BIRDS.” 11 pictures by the celebrated Australian bird-painter,
-N® villb Cayley. Printed on art paper, in colors, on one side of the paper only; the
whole enclosed in gold-embossed covers. A Work of Art. Each illustration a gem, and.
worth framing. Price, Is. ; post free, Is. Id.
“SUNNY NEW SOUTH WALES ’’—Sydney, Harbor and Country Scenes; 11
pictures. Printed in colors, bn art paper; enclosed in gold-embossed cover. Every
Picture a Work of Art. A beautiful collection of Pictures, prepared at an enormous
cost. Price, Is. ; post free. Is. Id.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
861 GEORGE STREET; S 3 PITT BTREET
79 ELIZABETH STREET; and all Branches.
ENO’S
COOLING, ‘FRUIT
HEALTH GIVING,
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
✓
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE.
SALT.’


There is a stream of correspondence in the
Sydney daily press anenfc the unsatisfactory sort
of tuition given to art students in N.S.W. Cer-
tainly the training of the students is much better
done in Melbourne, and the gallery there shows
the result in a mass of good local work. The art
system of Victoria, in fact, makes up somewhat
by efficiency for its leprous snobbery. Acres of
wall space are given up in the gallery to alleged
portraits of K.C.M.Geese—hung simply because
they are geese ; one part of the gallery is covered
with prints of European sovereigns—given space
because they are sovereigns; and the mournfully
inane art scribblings of the late Victoria and
Albert Wettin are given a place of honor —not
because they are, in the slightest degree, superior
to the slate scribblings of a lazy school brat, but
because Victoria was a queen and Albert was her
“consort.” (If he hadn’t been royal in a small
way he would have been called a plain “husband.”)
The depressing smudge these things leave in the
eyes is, however, to a great extent wiped away by
the excellent promise of the local work shown, and
the indication it gives of a sound system of tuition.
Melbourne can certainly provide an example for
Sydney in that respect.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. „ £l6 to £62.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 108.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll6.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-streec.
Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
<ss*
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
t nsj-.s/w.
d)ont deplete I. Co., ttd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEB.EAGH ST., *7 A.
- SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Pn lis—^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burks, Chairman ; Hon. O. J. Robsrts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Biiuck Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mili.f.r.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305 assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
Al 9 St 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
&
COON - COON - COON,
I’VE MADE UP MY MIND
TO SAIL AWAY.
The Honeysuckle & the Bee,
I Skedaddled, It’s the Man behind the
Gun, S W eet Ivy May Jerry Co,
Melindo Loo, Sometimes, When the
Harvest Days are Over, also Two
Hundred other Oriuina ICoon and
Love Sones. All+he LATEST HITS.
Posted for ONE SHILLING,
anywhere. Stamps or Postal Note.
B.P. C0., 80x 404, G.P.O..Sydney
Legal Notice.
WHEREAS by an order dated the 10th day
of August 1903 of the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice (Mr. Justice Keke-
wich) in an action intituled re MARY CRIPPS
deceased, Prowse v. Whitehorn 1903.— C 2068
the following enquiry was directed to be made
viz. An enquiry whether JOSEPH STEEL
named in the Will of the said Mary Cripps late of
Burcot in the parish of Dorchester in the County
of Oxford Spinster was living or dead and if dead
when he died and if he died subsequent to the
death of the said Mary Cripps (13 November 1878)
who is his legal personal representative. Notice
is hereby given that the said Joseph Steel or if he
died after the death of the said Mary Cripps his
legal personal representative are hereby required
on or before the 7th day of JANUARY 1904 to
come in either in person or by their Solicitors and
prove their claims at the Chambers of Mr. Justice
Kekewich and Mr. Justice Joyce Royal Courts of
Justice Strand London England or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said order. THURSDAY the
14th day of JANUARY 1904 at 12 o’clock noon
is appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon
the said claims. Note. It is alleged that the
said Joseph Steel left England for Australia in
May 1865 and that he was in 1868 in the neigh-
bourhood of the Blue Mountains, Australia.
Dated this 28th day of August one thousand
nine hundred and three.
J. C. FOX,
Master.
HERBERT M. DAVIS,
34 and 36 Gresham Street,
London.
Agent for
HEDGES & MARSHALL,
Wallingford, England,
Solicitors.
Shipping.
3NT. D. X-.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
8.8. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 28th OCTOBER.
8.8. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 9th DECEMBER.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London »
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SALAMISj
ABERDEEN
DAMASCUS
A. H. H. 0. Douglas
A. Robb
R. B. V. M'Killiam
Noon, Oct. 30
Noon, Nov. 20
Noon, Deo. 11
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c. f on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoonsfield Para de
BT. KILDA.
fTiHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
Q O DE3-A. axr I o
STE A M a HIP
A. AND a7~ LINE.
COMPANY.
the fast
MAIL
LINE.
Sydney to Auckland
Auckland to Pago Pago
Samoa to Fanning Island ..
Fanning Island to Honolulu
Honolulu to San Francisco
Overland to New York
New York to London
Passengers can break 1
«• -• 3J days.
». .1 4 days.
•• J 4 days.
*• •• 21 days.
.. 5J days.
.. .. 4 days.
.. .. 6 days.
Journey en route.
m
Elaborately appointed Staterooms for occupancy of not more than TWO Passengers.
No Steamers on the Pacific compare with our “ Sister Ships,” Sierra, Sonoma, Ventura. The NEWEST, LARGEST
tons) FASTEST AND ONLY STEAMERS HAVING TWIN-SOREWS WITH TWO SETS OP
INDEPENDENT ENGINES.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-OLASS LINE.
Send for Illustrated Matter, including New Publication, “If Not, Why Not ? ” Post Free, 3d.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital „ .. £2,500,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £457 354
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
l3l Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
ACENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £10,494 16 9
„ Directors : F. U. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. :
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
Tiie Bank of [forth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director- JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Cannt. (Messrs. Burns, Philp*Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 000 ... £360,000
64
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. G. ZEXjZDZROIIDa-IE &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
cams
m
m
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Free for Asking.
\At RITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
• ■ book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
FO REIGN S T AM F
m
pHEAP SETS.-8 Turkey, 6d;
47 Spain, Is 6d ; 6 British
Guiana, 6d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 10 Bul-
garia, 6d; 11 Canada, 6d : 15
Roumania,6d; 6United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Rica, 4d ; 3 Victoria, 1850 issue,
7s 6d ; 4 Sudan, 9d ; 20 Brazil.
Is ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal, 6d,
NewCatalogue of Stamps, &c., Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins st., Melbourne.
CANAOIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
MOANA,- NOVEMBER 2,
The Most Popular Steamer
on the Pacific.
NEXT SAILINGS—
NOVEMBER 30, DECEMBER 28.
Cheapest Route to America
and London.
Via Brisbane or Via
New Zealand .
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
TheLanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel o! the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
ilodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole Af/ent for Australasia.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin* writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, Is. 6d. From all Bookselleis, or the
Publishers, Tiie Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Innamincka,
Friday, Oct. 16, at 5 p.ra.
(Transhipping at
Mel bourne).
►S.S. Wollowra, October 24,
at 10 a.m.
S.S. Bullarra, October 28,
at Noon.
(Through to Wyndham).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
Townsville
And Porta North to Oalrna
S.S. Rockton, October 17,
at 5 p.m.
"S.S. Innamincka, Oct. 24.
S.S. Gabo, October 31.
Best and Cheapest lloute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
C. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P. AND o
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
♦Leaving Wednesday instead of Saturday on account
of the Melbourne races.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return,£66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
/
A. GORDON WESOHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Governmenc, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLI3U
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meat
the passengers for London and give them every assistant
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“e. and n.” line.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all oil
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rNLOROPyNE
UL
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BftONOHITIS,
DIARRHEA, bears ou
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEW 3 (4
Sept. 23 1895, says;
" If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to ba
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel'
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation."
LADIES'
HAIR-
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN,
Tel, 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
680-682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth r
with portrait. Price ss.


The new Victorian Lunacy Bill does abso-
lutely nothing for the indigent lunatic, who has
to be sent to the bedlam at Kew or Yarra Bend.
He is still to be dragged before the fearsome
honorary “beak” at the dirty police-court,
to be sworn to as being “off his onion there
are no provisions as to his scientific treatment,
further than at present ; no guarantee that
warders and nurses will be qualified, no promise
of adequate staffs, nor of the much-needed surgical
appliances, no provision for breathing space in
the packed asylums. In a word, the Bill is Kya-
bram once more.
Flavelle, Roberts $ Sankey, lm.
Lapidaries ....
Gem Merchants and * •
Manufacturing Jewellers
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
m
m
No. 1.—3 Fine Brilliant Diamonds £4O, smaller to £10; with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamonds, £25.
No. 2.-5 Fine Brilliant Diamonds from £l2 to £5O ; 2 Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires, £lO to £25.
No. 3.-3 Fine Opals and 2 Brilliant Diamonds, £9; 3 Fine Pearls
and 2 Diamonds, £l2.
No. 4.—1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
No. 5.-3 Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting, £lO to £l6.
No. 6.-3 Queensland White Topazes and 2 Queensland Rubies £6.
No. 7. —1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £5 ; 1
Queensland Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s.
No. B.—l Fine Pearl and Diamond Cluster, £2B; 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
No. 9.—1 Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubies, £4 10s.
No. 10.—1 Opal and Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
No. 11.—2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
No. 12.—1 Queensland White Topaz (as brilliant as the
Diamond), £4.
No. 13.—Marquise of Brilliant Diamonds, £lB to £3O.
12
13
Send for Booklet on “The Gem
Products of Queensland.”
WE HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OF UNSET OEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 100,000 OEMS ON HAND.
m
V? CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
is equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME.
THOUSANDS GLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT!
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
heing used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30/- to 84/-•
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet— FßEE.
! Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd.(D«w.s)
It (Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
1 ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner Ceorge & Market Sts- SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 6.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B. —Visitors oply pay for wbat tbcy actftally bays.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying; for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
engage rooms at ROBERTS’ HOTCL, SYDNCY.
NOTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
m
BARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
There’s SECURITY in
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
k FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter's
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
%
MEK WHO SUFFER
from Weak Nerves, Impure Blood, the Kidneys, Rheumatism, the Spine and Bladder,
WOMEN WHO WASTE AWAY
from Anaemia, Poverty of Blood, Leucorrhooa,
and Internal Complaints, &c., &c>,
A CHAT WITH YOU. DON'T LOSE HEART! DON'T DESPAIR! DON'T DIE!
HerrRASSMUSSENS HERBAL ALFALINE SPECIFICS
Have Cured Many Thousands. They have held their own against all comers for over 20 years,
and have never been known to fail. THEY WILL CURE YOU.
DO YOU KNOW ; ; .
That Herr Rassmussen possesses the most wonderful Specific Remedies for the
lilood and Nerves?
That Herr Rassmussen guarantees his Alfaline Herbal Remedies to Cure?
DO YOU KNOW . . . Herr Rassmussen’s
ALFALINE VITALITY NERVE PILLS.
This remedy can be depended on to cure all kinds of Nervons Diseases, Debility, Vital
Weakness, Despondency, Melancholia, Specks before the Eyes, Want of Memory, Bash-
fulness, and entirely stop the Waste from the System which is so weakening to the
Spine, Brain and Nerves. It entirely builds up and restores a broken-down Nervous
System. Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d.; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.; Smaller Boxes
at 12s. and 6s. each. Posted unobserved.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a guaranteed Cure for the worst forms of Blood Diseases, no matter how caused or
of how long standing, whether secondary or any other stage. This remedy completely
purifies, cleans and purges the Blood of all kinds of Impurities, and leaves the system
as pure as a new-born baby. It contains no Mercury, like all other remedies do used
for the Blood and Skin, and will entirely Cure all Diseases of the Skin and Blood,
Gravel and Stones in the Bladder, and all complaints of the Urinary passage. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.j Smaller Boxes at 12s. and 6s. each.
DO YOU KNOW . . .
That Herr Rassmussen’s Remedies are purely Herbal, and contain no mercury or any
other mineral poisons ?
That Herr Rassmussen has Thousands of Testimonials ?
Alfaline Herbal Remedies Never Fail to Cure?
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Never fail to Cure all forms of Amsemia, and entirely Cure and Prevent the most fear-
ful Wasting Diseases, which defy all other forms of treatment. They are particularly
effective in the treatment of all kinds of Internal Female Complaints, and being entirely
harmless, and most wonderfully effective for strengthening and thickening the Blood and
building up the Nerves. Course, 235. 6d.; Boxes, 12s. and 6s.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS.
This is absolutely the world's best remedy for Constipation, Indigestion, Wind, Heart-
burn, Flatulence, and all complaints of the Liver and Kidneys. Boxes, Is.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS
Cure Rheumatism, Gout and Sciatica. Boxes, 125., 6s. and 3s.
ALFALINE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS
Will Cure Asthma and Cough, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all Lung and Chest troubles.
Courses, 235. 6d.; Boxes, 6s.
ALFALINE PILE POWDERS, a won-
derful remedy for completely eradicating
both Internal and External Blind and
Bleeding Piles. Gives instant relief.
ALFALINE CORN CURE. Is.
ALFALINE FAT-REDUCING POW-
DER is entirely harmless, and is the
best fat-reducing powder in the world.
Boxes, 6s. and 3s.
ALFALINE OINTMENT. Is.
ALFALINE EMBROCATION, excel-
lent for Cyclists, Cure Stiff Joints, Gout,
and Chapped Skin. Bottles, Is.
ALFALINE HEADACHE TABLETS.
Instantaneous and permanent cure. Is.
ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER.
Restores the Hair, 6s.
ALFALINE EUCALYPTUS. Bottles,ls.
ALFALINE WORM TABLETS. Is.
COMPLEXION BEAUTIFIER. 65.&35.
BOOK POSTED FREE.—A Valuable Book containing Valuable Advice for all Complaints Posted Free and Unobserved.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALITY.
All correspondence will be held strictly confidential. Remedies will be posted in plain cover, and
— —therefore entirely unobserved, both from the Head Office and Agencies. Make Cheques and Money
Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN. Register letters containing Money, and when Special Advice is required, address letters as follows:
HERR RASSM US SEN’S Head Office: 547 George St., Sydney
Herr Kassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies can also be obtained forom liis Agencies, as follows:
BRISSA.STXS; 30 0 QUISBIff ST3ELEE T„
ADELAIDE: 15 PULTENEY ST.
W.A.: PERTH, 481 HAY ST.
KALGOORLIE: 111 HANNAN ST.
N.Z.: 91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON.


STRONG
\
FAVORITE A
V
y
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
m
FATE .
It is very con-
venient to attribute
the disasters which
overtake us to fate.
But for the most part
man is the arbiter of
his own fortunes.
Business men are
struck suddenly as
by lightning. The
verdict is generally
“heart failure.’
“His heart was weak. It was fate for him to
meet this end.” But if we went behind the
“weak” heart we should find a “weak” stomach,
probably, and back of the weak stomach is care-
less eating at irregular hours. When the stomach
is diseased the organs depending on the stomach
for nutrition are starved. Starvation means
weakness of the body and its organs.
“It would be lacking in duty, not to say un-
grateful of me,” says Mr. William J. Lewis, 113
Crown-street, Sydney, ‘‘ to remain silent after the
relief I got by a short course of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills for chronic dyspepsia. I have
lost count how long I have been a martyr to this
unrelenting trouble ; but my inability to shift it
with medicine and medical advice lasted up to
December of last year. On New Year’s Day last
I started as a sceptic to take Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, which I continued thrice a week
through January, the relief coming nice and
gradual. From this out, however, my stomach
regained its normal strength, and I am now able
to eat anything I like with the greatest relish and
with no fear of after punishment.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills cure diseases of
the stomach and other organs of digestion and
nutrition. When these organs are cured diseases
of the heart, liver, lungs, and kidneys, caused by
the diseased stomach, are cured also. They are a
positive and permanent cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, sick headaches, sallow
complexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles,
pimples, boils and blotches, and for female ail-
ments. Packed in amber bottles, and sold
throughout Australasia.
Piles and their Cure.— The pamphlet, by
Albert Sharp, of Sydney, entitled, “Piles and
How to Cure Them,” without operation, by the
“Cannalin” treatment, sent free from 257
George-st., Sydney. Cannalin Ointment (the
quickest relief known), by post Is. 7d.*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE » LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Caulfield Cup final acceptances saw everything
backed to any extent, bar Postillion, left in. His elimi-
nation, in face of that fine showing in Caulfield Stakes,
was a surprise. Actions of some horse-owners, trainers,
or whoever may be responsible, are indeed mystifying.
The Caulfield Cup may go to a Sydney
norse after all, even without the aid of the dan-
gerous outsider, Accident, who is quite likely to bring
half the field to grief. Cutting a long story short, this
scribe will venture to prefer St. Ambrose, Nothos,
Ban Oeontha, Sweet Nell, F.J.A., and Berriedale
to Ibex, The Idler, Florin, St. Modan, Macdonavan,
Undecided, and Billali, without denying the possi-
bility of something else turning up in front of the lot
mentioned. It goes without saying that Sweet Nell and
F. J. A. are worth backing on their last Saturday’s perform-
ances, also it follows, as a matter of course, that the Eclipse
Stakes and the Coongy Handicap on Wednesday will give
punters further hints for their guidance. But the Caulfield
Cup is bound, all the same, to be a rather open race from
the bookmakers’ point of view. Nothing is worth backing
at 6 to 1 except that uncertain brute, Accident, and
Heaven knows how Accident may influence the result of
the race. Nothos, Ban Ceontha and St. Ambrose—none of
them warm favorites at time of writing—are this scribe’s
fondest fancies, formed in Melbourne, after due considera-
tion of the fact that the trainers, jockeys and owners
(not that owners matter much) of fully 15 other candi-
dates would, in the language of turf prophecy, “look
elsewhere for the winner.” A Caulfield Cup race is a
wild contest of straight tips, a battle of dead-birds, a
jostle of moral certainties. The straight moral bird here-
with selected is
St. Ambrose or Nothos.
* * * *
Apropos Sweet Nell’s win of Caulfield Guineas.
’Twas up to a filly to notch; previous successful one
(Volley) won 15 years ago. Race was run in record time
(1.43). First quarter occupied 27sec., second 25£sec., and
last half-mile 60fsec. At 2yrs., Sweet Nell won V.R.O.
Encourage Stakes, Nursery Handicap, and Flemington
Stakes. Same club’s Autumn gathering saw her win
Sires’ Produce Stakes, beating F.J.A., Oherson, and 30
others. At S.A.J.C. May races South Australian Stakes
fell to her. Sweet Nell’s first appearance this year was at
A.J.O. Spring Meeting ; she ran second to Belah in the
Derby, failed to get a place in the Metrop., and went
under to Duke of Grafton in Grantham Stakes.
* * * *
The Caulfield Stakes gave Abundance his
revenge on Wakeful. Last year the mare won the race
pretty easily, Abundance being second ; but on Saturday
the son of Beanfast was ridden a judicious waiting race,
and when Wakeful and Ibex had spun themselves out he
took the lead and kept it, a jostle with Postillion making
no apparent difference in the result. Although Pos-
tillion’s jockey lodged a protest, the N.S.W. horse had,
seemingly, less ill luck in the running than Emir, who
was always in a bad position.
* * * *
Backers of Abundance for the Cup need have
no fear about him being over-trained. On returning to
the birdcage after the Caulfield Stakes he sweated pro-
fusely, and showed himself full of vim. All going well
these next three weeks, Abundance should start for the
Cup in great fettle. If any person knows any cause or
just impediment why last year’s Derby winner and this
year’s Derby winner should not fight out the finish for
the 2-mile handicap, let him declare it.
* * * *
Emir, luck permitting, will win the Derby and
every other w.f.a. race he starts for at the V.R.O.
meeting. The colt (20 to 1 s.p.) got away last in
Saturday’s scramble, and was not pushed, but as soon as
he got fairly going he travelled a trifle faster than Ibex
and Wakeful for a mile. Unfortunately the wrench he
gave to his near fore-leg through putting his foot in a
hole some weeks back made it advisable to give Emir an
easier time than is beneficial to any colt of his tempera-
ment. The wrenched leg may be sound enough (though
it still goes rather stiffly in walking paces) and the
bandages he wears are mere tricks of the trade no doubt,
but the champion, in his state of being “ above himself,”
shows some tendency to viciousness. He is not by any
means a Christian Endeavorer among gee-gees, as Wake-
ful and Abundance have been.
» * * *
The post-betting for the Guineas was as incon-
sistent with recent public form as the race itself. A.J.C.
Derby winner was quoted at 6 to 4 until the Scobieites
came with a rush to back Sweet Nell, whereupon Belah
retired to 7to 2. The black colt never looked dangerous
in the race. Hauturier passed him at half-a-mile, and
then stable-companion Nell passed Hauturier, the rest of
the field being, simply nowhere. On this display by
Belah, the Derby would seem to be a procession for
Scobie’s lot, provided there is nothing in Leslie Mac-
donald’s stable good enough to shake up the Ballarat
contingent.
* * * *
Recent Rand wick “form” got another knock
when F.J.A. (the pony) romped away from St. Modan,
Clifton and others for the Toorak Handicap. Bobby
Lewis, on F. J.A., appeared to be playing with the opposi-
tion. The little horse shot to the front as though he had
all the best, instead of the worst, of the weights, and old
Footbolt, giving I6lb. to St. Modan, was only beaten by a
head for second place.
* * * *
Punters, as a rule, have an unreasonable dispo-
sition to back bookmakers’ horses for the Cups. If an
animal owned by Ikey Mo. ; in his own name or anybody
else’a, shows any “ form,” it is immediately pounced upon
as a good thing by hundreds of weak-minded young men,
who wouldn’t fancy it half so much if they were more
certain of getting an honest run for their half-sovereign.
And if it doesn’t show any “ form,” the same misguided
punters give the bookmaker’s gee-gee credit for being
“ bound to win when the money’s right.” A horse
gallops none the faster for being identified with a nosey
Isaac, even though his previous performances have been
respectable, and if it is an oft-defeated one, with a repu-
tation for having been dishonestly ridden on many occa-
sions, it is the more likely to prove a failure when wanted
to win. Roguery in the owner creates roguery in his
racehorse more often than not.
* * * *
Kilfera, scratched last week for Derby and Cup,
was greatly fancied by the stable three months ago. The
Endeavour, another dead-’un, was also counted among
the dangerous ones. If the layer of a “ level’underd ’’
against Scobie’s lot for the Derby made a bona-fide wager
one would like to know where he is looking for the
winner. Scobie’s three-year-olds have seemingly a2to 1
chance of securing the blue ribbon for the stable.
* * * *
Never have fewer youngsters gone to Victoria
from N.S.W. than this Spring. Of all the yearlings
handled present season only four crossed the Murray, and
this in face of fact that such exceptionally big plums as
Debutante Stakes and Maribyrnong Plate were available.
Explanation would be interesting.
Nothos is, seemingly, another spelling of Nothu 3
—a bastard. By Duke of Orafton from Disgrace, the
gelding is well-named. The first Duke of Grafton was a
reputed illegitimate son of Charles IX., like the ancestor
of the old Duke of Richmond who died t’other day, and
other 17th century additions to the noble British Peerage.
* • * *
Melbourne Cup prospects of Lord Cardigan are
regarded by some in a position to judge, as second to
none. Trainer and owner, Mayo, expect him to jump off
first and stay there throughout, for lib. over the limit is
no load—not even to a three-year-old—and L.C. is a
Eroven stayer of the best brand. The colt will be ridden
y N. Godby, who had the mount on unlucky Merton
Steel when that horse fell in last Melbourne Cup and was
killed, while one of Godby’s legs was broken. Trainer
Cornwell said Merton Steel was the best horse he ever
had, and with a fair run would have surely won the Cup.
Same man has watched the preparation of Lord Cardigan
and thinks he is as good as, if not better than, Merton
Steel.
• * • •
“ 0.T." : Looks as if there’s going to be another
Scobie scoop. Before the Victorian Spring meeting
Scobie’s was, numerically, much the strongest stable, and
now it has proved its high quality. It was scoring with a
vengeance to appropriate Debutante Stakes, Caulfield
Guineas and Toorak Handicap in one day (last Saturday)
and secure places with two others —Hauturier (a close
second) and Emir (weeks off being properly wound-up)
third—in Guineas and Stakes respectively. Sweet Nell
(in same stable) has already been heavily backed for
Caulfield Cup, while, on his latest showing, nothing looks
better than-Emir for the Derby, which includes several
more Scobie possibilities ; and Melbourne Oup doesn’t
seem by any means beyond him.
* * * »
“Ante”: Went to pony races lately. Grand
stand occupants myself and boy. Rest of the crowd was
too busy welshing to sit down. Boy, bursting with secret,
said that his father had two ponies entered but the old
man couldn’t come so his mother was looking after them.
Didn’t know whether they would be “ cutting ” but would
let me know. Came back breathless next race to say No.
1 wasn’t “ cutting.” Pony went out first favorite and
ran st»ond last. Later on No. 2 wasn’t fancied. Boy,
highly excited, said his mother said it was a monte and it
cantered in with my bit. Gave the boy five bob. Boy
delighted. Went down into paddock. Hoarse person
edged up alongside and whispered mysteriously,
“ YVotcherbackin bloke ?” and remarked that I ought to
be struck blind if I didn’t put a couple er quid on Soandso.
It was the only trier of the whole 14, he said ; the 13 other
owners or trainers all owed corn bills and were afraid to
win the £8 prize because the corn man would be sitting
on their doorstep waiting for them when they got home.
Applied to boy, and on his mature advice didn’t back
Soandso. He lost badly. I like the Australian boy.
* * * •
It occurred at a race meet held in Canterbury
(M.L.) in 1851. The judge was located on a beer-barrel,
the grandstand (planks, supported by beer-barrels) being
just behind him. The stirrup of one of the riders broke,
and he was thrown against a spectator, who fell against
the judge’s structure, capsizing it, and it, in turn, crashed
into the grandstand. The whole show collapsed, and
wild shrieks of femininity hit the atmosphere. It was an
embarrassing spectacle—a wriggling, helpless mass of
woman unable to right itself, being encompassed by
huge crinolines, which had just become the vogue, but
which were tabooed by the majority from that aggrava-
ting hour.
* * * *
A mania for almost unpronounceable Maori
names affects M.L. sportsmen. Mickumaratia is the
latest winner. It means an invitation from the graceful
brown man to “ come into the shade.”
* * * *
Once prominent Queensland jock Dawson died
at Toowoomba the other day from injuries sustained at
annual show three months ago.
* * * *
Information comes that M.L. horse, Orloff, has
been scratched for N.Z. Oup, and some get-there-early
punters experienced a hard knock in consequence. Few
days before Orloff’s elimination several big entries were'
made against him, one bookmaker alone laying £l2OO at'
a short price.
* * * •
Bill of Portland-Catherine Wheel colt, Tread-
mill (last year’s M.L. top-notch 2-year-old), opened current
season promisingly by gathering Wanganui Guineas*
wherein he started a hot pick. End of 1902-3 turf year-
saw him with a list of six successes in eight starts.
* * » *
Announced definite retirement of English
equine gold mine Ard Patrick (recently sold for 20.000 1
guineas after closing on Eclipse Stakes) reminds that in
11 starts he won six times, bringing former owner (who-
was also his breeder) £26,616 in prize-money alone
£2666 came at two years, £7480 at three years, and,
£16,470 during current season.
* * * *
Some happenings at Kosehill, Saturday :—The
Palmist, winner of big thing (ljm.) at Canterbury week
before (8.10), but who could only run a none-too-good
third in Toilers’ Handicap (lm.) with 8.12 up at Rand wick
Farm following Monday, ran away with Rosehill October
Stakes (6fur.), humping 9.3. Marvellous how some nags
come on or fall away in a day or two ! Steeple only
induced four runners, two of them (including favorite-
Snowstorm, 5 to 4 against) came croppers, and outsider
of the quartette, Killarney (about whom tens were plenti-
ful), won handily, despite that it was his first showing-
over big “ country.” Vanilla, after months away from,
the metropolis, went out the hottest of hot things for
Highweight Handicap (6fur.), but after leading quite two-
thirds of the journey, dropped to the rear as if standing.
Betting on concluding event (Parramatta Mile) saw Mo.
doing the usual thing nowadays- making himself snug
by offering 2 to 1 on three of the six runners. Oran-
brook-Antiram gelding Bingle, one of the favorites, won-
easily, with so much in hand that he’ll be worth watching
henceforth. Easiest success seen about Sydney for
months was Australia’s securing of Rosehill Handicap.
From home turn she streaked away in front of every thing-
else.
* * * •
Melbourne Age lately called attention to the-
fact that no"balance-sheet of this year’s Melbourne Eight-
Hours Anniversary Fete and Art Union has been revealed
to the public. Last year there was a balance-sheet which
showed £7122 of receipts and only £844 of profits available-
for the local charities. This year’s figures are understood!
to be much smaller, and State inquiry is suggested. If
the Trades Hall considers its dignity in this matter it-
will cut all connection with the Government and the
charities by deciding to dispense with the annual art
union. The lottery license is only granted on condition
that the profits of the Eight Hours show are given to the-
hospitals, and so the affair becomes everybody’s business.
There is no reason why the Trades Hall should not run its
own show frankly in its own financial interests, like other
caterers for public amusement. The lottery, under the-
bogus name of art-union, is an unsatisfactory thing ; the-
public has ceased to respect it as a “ shilling spec.”, and
probably as many tickets as were bought this year for-
gambling purposes might be disposed of on their bare
merits as cards of admission to the Fete. Williamson or
Musgrove, given the Trades Hall’s means to dispose of
tickets through the unions, would find no difficulty in,
making a huge profit on an all-day shilling show at the-
Exhibition Building. He wouldn’t have a costly bicycle,
race on the bill of fare, anyhow.
* * • *
Maoriland Supreme Court has in its great-
wisdom always decided that fan-tan and pak-a-pu aren’t-
lotteries. It is abundantly clear that they are, though,
and Government has introduced a Bill defining them as;
such. The measure also reaches out for Tattersall again.
His ticket-selling agents are to he liable to a fine of £2oo'
or six months. The man who pursues fortune by invest-
ing ss. is to drop in for a £lO penalty and much oppro-
brium. This won’t wholly stop the exodus of cash to-
Hobart, however, as nothing is said about paying monev
into the bank to Tatts’. account. Still, if the Bill passes,,
it would be as well for Tatt. to drop his habit of cabling
over the names and addresses of winners—just in case of
fire.
The walking craze struck about its lowest
depths of imbecility a week or two back in Melbourne,
when some humorless ghouls arranged and brought off a
match for one-legged men. The spectacle of the unfor-
tunate contestants painfully pegging along the Brighton
shore to provide a publican’s holiday made even the
winkles weep.
* * * *
Coppack, the hopeful individual who left Mel-
bourne on September X to walk to Sydney, where he was
to arrive on the 19th, was heard from last week. Xle was
then a fortnight late, had a damaged foot, and was still
236 miles from his destination.
* * * *
The Sydney golfers follow the snobbish English
custom, so well-known in cricket columns, of depriving
their professionals of the right of using their initials in
the press. Most of the golf clubs have a professional as
instructor, and in certain events he is graciously allowed
to compete. In the published scores he appears as plain
“ Robinson ” or “ Bilkins,” while the cracks of the Royal
Sydney and Australian clubs wear all the glory of their
initials, and their hyphens look like the bars of a wild-
beast cage or the spears of Sennacherib's Assyrians.
* * * *
N.S.W. professional and amateur golf premier-
ships were completed last week. First mentioned fell to
Sydney man, Clark, by two strokes after tying with
Warrnambool crack Harper. Only one or two of
the eight concerned upheld their reputations ; occasion
proved too much for the rest. Amateur supremacy
went to Soutar easily. Same player won Australasian
premiership recently and all other big things of the season
have come his way. Consistency of Soutar’s game is
remarkable.
* * * *
“ Carnbrae”: Included in mixed sports pro-
gramme at recent Kalgoorlie Traders’ Gala was a goat race.
Five billies and two nannies went to the post. Distance
was a furlong. Runners drew “go-carts,” and the
favorite (there was much betting on the event) won in an
easy canter by twenty lengths. The goat race has been
a feature of the gala several seasons now. Failing to
deaden the boy drivers of the turn-outs (the youngsters
are always only too eager to win), some enterprising
male withdrew the pin of a go-cart wheel behind the
favorite in a Goat Cup at Boulder twelve months ago, and
just when the good thing was romping in a winner the
turn-out collapsed.
* * • *
Stated in the cable news that Arthur Shrubb,
an English amateur runner, has covered a mile and a half
in 6min. 47 3-ssec. —an average of nearly 13J miles an
hour. This gives color to the story that an athlete in
ancient Rome so distinguished himself by keeping pace
on foot with the emperor on his fleetest horse, that he
became emperor himself as soon aB the billet was vacantt
* * * *
“ Jack ” Hempton, the old-time sprinter, who
has been of late chief clerk in the Wellington (M.L.)
Customs, has risen to be collector of customs at New
Plymouth. Hempton is now over 40, and it is 11 years
since he did his famous 100yds. over the cinders at Christ-
church in 9 4-5 seconds. It would have been a world’s
record but for the fact that Macpherson, of N.S.W., did
exactly the same time a year earlier on the grass track at
Auckland. One-fifth of a second has been chipped off
that reoard in later years.
* * * *
Hindu wrestlers, Buttan Singh and Gunga
Brahm (respectively champion and ex-champion of Aus-
tralia), have signed to go to a finish at the National S.O.
(Sydney) within two weeks. It should be a high-strung
thing, and, in the 20ft. boxing square, should end fairly
quickly, Wirth’s big, circus ring gave them too much
room. Superb condition the two get into is wonderful.
They prepare quite differently from Britishers and
Americans. Beyond a couple of hours continuous hard
exercise twice daily (principally with the dumb-bells) little
is done. Long walks are not thought of. Diet is mainly
poultry, with a little mutton now and again, and a pint
(every morning) of a'beautifuily 'bilious mixture of milk
and butter, boiled and skimmed several times over.
.• * .* •
Cabled that Russian wrestler Hackenschmidt
beat Greek Antonio Pierri in London for World’s Graeco-
Roman championship. Last August they struggled
18min. 45sec. before the Russian secured the one fall neces-
sary to win. Pierri, heavier and broader but much older
than Hackenschmidt, lorded it over all America some
time ago as “ Greek George,” but must not be confused
with a tall quack doctor who, in Australia a few years
since, issued challenges to wrestle (but never faced the
music) and likewise dubbed himself Greek George.
* * * *
The hesitations of sculling champion Towns:
At first Towns said “business matters” prevented him
fixing any definite time to row Tressider. Then Tressi-
der became seriously ill, and Towns’ boatshed was de-
stroyed by fire. During Tressider’s convalescence Towns
became quite eager for the match, and offered to row
within a period which Tressider declared all too short to
recover and train in ; but he offered to come to scratch
by February or March next, and now Towns has dis-
covered he cannot fix any date, and the nearest he can
“ guess ”is May or April. Tressider now despairs of ever
meeting Towns, and is bitterly regretful that he threw up
his Govt, billet to take to the sport again after two years,
retirement. But he’ll wait till next year, and meanwhile
follow his own calling, that of a fisherman.
• * * *
The commendable action of the Federal military
'authorities in declining to grant the Soustralian riflemen
free passes to Sydney has given the pot-hunting busi-
ness a bad smack in a tender spot. The pot-hunter has
become an institution, and as long as the small ring of
professional shooters could travel free all round the
States there was something in the game.
* » * *
League of Wheelmen’s two days’ meet on New
■Sydney Sports Ground closed Saturday. Attendance was
only moderate, and will be till reasonable accommodation
and shelter are provided. Of recently arrived ’Murkan
bikists only Hardy Downing started, but, after winning
his heat in mile handicap with a fine turn of speed, he got
blocked during last half lap of final and went under.
Victorian George Morgan annexed half-mile supremacy of
Australia (first championship of the season) easily from
Rye, and threatens to make himself very much felt this
year. Morgan also gathered mile Intercolonial scratch
race, doing almost as he liked with the opposition.
* * * *
M.L. League of Wheelmen has a rosy time
ahead trying to break down a system of “team” work
which has infected its race-meetings. Maoriland, as a
rule, dotes on amateurism, but, in cycling, sports pro-
moters won’t cater for the amateurs, since the riders have
shown a greater liking for the gilt than the tin-pots.
There’s a prosperous time ahead for cycling in Maoriland,
:if the League will refrain from hampering the riders with
too many restrictions. At the beginning of the present
'season the League’s credit totalled £66 16s
* * * *
Warner’s county (Middlesex) has won the
championship—a honor last achieved in 1878. This is a
‘fortunate coincidence for the coming English team, to be
ded by the captain of the champion county.
* * * *
Rhodes, whose appearance as a bowler will be
'a leading attraction in the English match, is no fool of a
batsman. In the annual contest against the Gentlemen,
Rhodes headed the batting of the Players with a score of
'B2. Warner himself made 79 for the Gents.
* * * *
Second round (Saturday) of Sydney first grade
matches saw Hopkins in fine form. Playing vigorously,
’he hit up 148, the only three-figure score in that division ;
but in the second section competition young Frank
Punch was at the wickets all the afternoon for 189 (not
■out) in North Sydney’s interests. North Sydney first
■ and second teams made biggest scores of the day.
Former had 395 for 7, and latter 381 for two wickets.
Latest ’Ome cricket season was among wettest
known—wetter even than during last Australian team s
tour.
* * » *
Sydney Sports Ground —henceforth to be a
thorn in the side of the S.C.G. trustees —track is probably
the best in Australasia (and, as for some of the principal
State grounds, that isn’t saying much). Unfortunately-,
the accommodation for the public and riders needs much
improvement. The desire to open the track was too
great, and starting before everything was fixed up was
bad management. However, riders swear by the track,
and its best testimonial was the passing off of the initial
meeting without an accident.
♦ * * *
Continent’s amateur boxing championships,
by N.S.W. Sports Club (Sydney), took well, and left pro-
moting body with a substantial surplus, but boxing
generally fell far short of expectations. Absolute cleverest
was Queensland feather Dowridge, who wasn’t called
upon to shape beyond a sparring bout through M.L. rep.
Parker not being able to get within lbs. of the weight.
There was much in Dowridge’s work that recalled dead
warrior, Peter Jackson. N.S.W. middleweight Fraser is
clever and vimful bey'ond the ordinary, but fellow rep.,
Harriott, caught him napping before operations
had fairly started and the soothing influence of
a chip on the chin caused Fraser to roll over,
dead to the world, much beyond the lOsec. limit.
Maoriland heavy and middle champions (Taylor and
Griffin respectively) brought little science, but heaps of
force, to bear, and literally went through M'Kellar and
Harriott after hurricane work —all bump, flounder and
slog. Taylor triumphed “on points ” (the humor of it,
there wasn’t an atom of science on either side), and Griffin
flattened his man out in 53sec. Home champions in both
cases were the more skilful, but cyclonic rushes, grit and
thew of Maorilanders demoralised them. Other winners
were N.S.W. men Dickenson (bantam) and Parbery (light-
weight). Happenings evidenced that, with some tutor-
ing, Maorilanders Taylor and Griffin would make it hot
for the best at their poundage among professionals.
* * * *
Australian bantam bruising championship, at
Sydney Gaiety A. 0., ended in a victory for Toohe.v in the
tenth round. Both Ted Green and Peter Toohey are
Sydney-siders, and of their previous fights Toohey has
won two, and Green one. Fight opened tamely, and in
the second round Toohey went down from a right on the
ear. Thence up to the sixth round the mill was exciting
and the audience enthusiastic, and the sixth saw Green
favorite, 6 to 4 on. But Green failed to use his trusty
right and Toohey held off, fearing a trap, so the thing
dragged wearyingly. A pained expression on Green’s face
caused the referee to stop the fight, and it was discovered
that Green’s collar-bone was broken.
* * « *
Trial of surviving principal, W. Morgan
(“Paddy King”), and seconds, referee, timekeeper, &c.,
charged with manslaughter of Charles Best (“ Young”),
who died through an accident at Sydney Gaiety A.C.,
August 24, ended in an acquittal. Summing up, Mr.
Justice Owen said: “Much hysterical nonsense has been
written recently about boxing contests. A friendly exhi-
bition of skilful and scientific boxing is lawful. There is
no doubt the blow in this contest was a fair one under
the Queensberry rules, and when a prize is at stake it is
allowable for either of the contestants to take advantage
of the rules. It is also allowable for a contestant_ to
‘kid’—that is, to deceive his opponent into thinking
that he is exhausted, so that he may surprise him.”
This is the clearest ruling yet delivered by any Judge,
though all have been to the same effect. Possibly, in
future, there will be no arrests and no proceedings other
than what might take place in connection with a fatal
accident in the cricket or football field, neither of which
games is more lawful than boxing, and people connected
with contests will cease to be brought before a strongly
biassed coroner, and put to considerable expense, besides
being held up in hysterical papers as criminals.
* * * *
Present season’s form of whilom Australian XI.
skipper, G. H. S. Trott, prompts the opinipn that he’ll
make his way into Victoria’s best combination, spite of
the contention that a big match may r find him unequal
to the strain. At Bendigo, the other day, he opened up
with 102.
* * *
Has it ever been equalled ? Winner of Glad-
stone Park (Sydney) bowling club championship had to
win 22 games to secure the honor.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
A Nib,
A Bottle of Ink,
A Sheet of Paper,
and
LETTER BOOK
Hakee ■ complete outfit
with which any man, wo-
man or child can write •
letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy#
From 0. Plttmmrr, Rutland Street, Auckland, N.Z.,
Straw Hat Manufacturer. August 18, 1902.
Two months’ trial of the Pin Carbon Letter Book obtained from you has satisfied US
that your
p
EN
roduce
reserve
revent
m
ARSON
lean
(opies
onfusion
L
ETTER
egible
.asting
oss and
B
OOKB
ills
(right
ad Language
Yourg faithfully, O, PLUMMER.
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
Is a True and Valued Friend.
Sole Australasian
Agents—
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE,
m
m
The Secret of Pleasurable nyniing-
is to buy a Bicycle that suits your height, weight, etc.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
are built in every size of frame, and the purchaser can select any shape of handle-bar, style of
saddle, make of tyres, rims, chain, etc. Long, easy payment terms arranged.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St., Sydney.
Continental Caoutchouc & Guttapercha Co.
KCA.TXTOVER.
m
ft". «•
I iHOUsTrTi
Wallace
Wallace
MAKERS OF
Continental Bicycle Tyres,
Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres,
AINU
The Celebrated Continental Motor Tyres
• (Winners of Gordon Bennett Oup, 1903).
Total Yearly Output— oyer 600,000 Tyres.
DEPOT AT—
WALLACE PNEUMATIC TYRE COY.,
274 FLINDERS ST., HELBOURNE.
Branches in all States. >.
v 6
H
Major General Babington, Maoriland’s
gold-laced, ornamental commanding officer, has
just furnished his annual report and suggestions
in a tired sort of way, as a mere matter of form.
All his suggestions for improving the defence
forces are exactly the same as those that were
disregarded last year and ignored the year before.
Seddon imports his high-salaried boss officer from
Hingland as a habit. Then Dick puts his friends
on the headquarters stafE and elsewhere, and the
unfortunate commander, seeing that it is im-
possible to get rid of his incompetents, or to
evoke a model army out of chaos, heaves a weary
sigh inside his golden weskit and lets things go.
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
WILLIAMS’
m
A SOOTHINB
Influence—
Williams’
Shaving
Stick.
My Sii ent Partner
WILLIAMS’ BARBER’S BAR.
Ul m
ffl
Hi y ; t>u-A l.ittle Collins
itSTEvery Bar
weighs Sixteen
Honest English
Ounces, divi-
ded into Six
Cakes. Not
sold in Slices.
J. B. Williams
Co., Glaston-
bury, Conn., U.
S.A., 232 Clar-
ence St., S.vd-
St., Melbourne
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
a
<=>
«fci
LU
CD
CO
m
By " new discovery, odorless
ana tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food.
It does it* work so silently and
surely that while the devited
! wife, sister or daughter looks on
the drunkard is reclaimed even
against bis will and without his
knowledge or co-operation.
idiria Edith WILLIAMS, who
hei father after years of
misery, wretchedness and almost
unbearable suffering, says:—* 4 I
Shall be so glad if you publish my
experience, for It will reach
many others and let them know
about the wonderful EUCRASY.
: . , V * will * can to help any
suffering sister who .fill write me. ,J Send name and ■
address to THE
Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney,
»nd they will send you Booklet .ad pwticulws FREE.
SHARPSNOOTIN6
m
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK /
180 Pius, 100 Illustrations, 1/. nett. :
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IP you wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNB and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
mfim
a
Sfl
the person who is not .1 millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,” TKS
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
55., P. 0.0. or stamps.
8. REjKNAGEL NACHF, Munich, 1 BrlefTach, Germany
CHAS. GILBERT’
Q
u
E
E
N
S
T
Genuine Panama Hats
3MMIS
are cheaper at my store than at any
other house in the Commonwealth,
and, what|s more, the finest selec-
tion ! This season’s shipments are
warranted genuine French finish,
ensuring perfect bleaching, and pre-
venting the plait splitting.
I’ll Replaoe any Hat
(within reasonable time of purchase)
which is not satisfactory. Sent
securely packed, and posted carriage
paid, to any address, on receipt of
cash, at—
t7/6, 21/-, 26/- 27/6,
36/- to 60/-
My Values
are Matchless!
PS
B
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
SPECIALITIES
Will Ogilvie’s new book of verses, Hearts
of Gold, will make the most charming of Xmas
presents. Price, 4s. 6d. Order from The Bulletin
office, and the book will be posted to any address
immediately on publication.*
A N.S.W. Freetrade paper on the Cham-
berlain proposals:—
Before Mr. Chamberlain’s scheme for a revolution in
the Imperial and colonial fiscal systems can be taken into
practical consideration it is necessary to assume that the
Empire is threatened with dissolution and the various
countries that comprise it with decay.
Similarly, before a man should take any steps to
cure his illness he must be dead or thereabouts.
From Sydney D.T. (12/10/’03) :
Nothing is more evident than the lack of appreciation
which the grower of merino wool shows to his own
product. What encouragement does he give to his own
production? Positively none. Clothed as a rule in a
ready-made suit of “ slops,” more or less composed of
shoddy and cotton, he is content to withdraw his patron-
age from the product of his own sheep. Surely it is his
policy to encourage manufacturers who use the wool
which he produces. Even now the local mills turn out
very fair cloth made entirely of the wool grown in the
State, without any admixture of foreign matter.
The D.T. occasionally forgets itself, and is a good
Protectionist, and honestly describes the stuff
brought in by its swindling tin god, the importer,
as what it is—shoddy.
Launceston (Tas.) Examinee, urging the
public not to worry :—
Mr. Davies then asserts that the money is absolutely
necessary, but he is evidently not very sure on the point,
and does not challenge the Treasurer’s figures. Instead
he drifts on to the question of paying off the deficit, and
talks magniloquently about preserving the credit of the
State. Now we yield to none in upholding that credit,
but we hold it is not necessary to cripple ourselves to pay
off the old debt. . . . In no other State are heroic efforts
being made to pay off the deficit. . . . The deficit can be
dealt with afterwards.
What a lot of “ afterwards ” grows in this coun-
try ! And what a splendid crop of “ to-morrow ”
we always have, even in drought time ! Also the
“pretty soon” and the “by-and-bye” come up
bright and green in the worst season.
Advertisement in M.L. up-country paper:
'XX/'ANTED, a respectable general servant, one with
'' a knowledge of music preferred. No children.
Apply T. B. Hunter, Pahiatua.
Mary Ann will soon be required to carry a musical
diploma around with her, in her hatbox.
“ Creagh ” : At Sydney public library
there gathers a class of dirty, misanthropic-looking
old men who snuffle over unheard-of volumes on
the government of Siam and other remote sub-
jects. They represent a species that invades all
public libraries, plucking the fruits of the tree of
knowledge with wavering paws, and eating it on
the top of sour beer. I once made the acquaint-
ance of one of these literary derelicts.. He was
leaden and hairy, and he had acquired a mass of
information on remote subjects such as the
mythology of heathen Scandinavia ; but he had
forgotten how to wash. He wasn’t a Dornainer ;
simply an individual whom the dead weight of
undigested knowledge had sunk below the surface
of civilisation.
A weird tale from Melbourne :—
Bill Lyne, so the story goes, was cruelly “ taken down ”
by childlike and bland Deakin when he proposed himself
as Barton’s legitimate heir. What time Premier Barton
was struggling to make up his mind about a High Court
Judgeship the political cards had been settled without
reference to Lyne. Presently Bill came along to sound
Deakin on the question of his (Bill’s) claim to take over
the Premiership from their departing brother Toby.
Deakin pondered the matter deeply before announcing
his decision. He would not, he said, be willing to serve
under Lyne, but he would leave him at liberty to form a
Ministry if he could. Lyne, reckoning that he had the
Premiership as good as in his pocket, began to solicit
votes and interests in the House. Deakin retired to
Macedon, or somewhere, for the benefit of his health,
until Barton’s retirement had been announced and Lyne’s
disillusionment was complete. Subsequently the baffled
William, after a heated interview with Deakin, admitted
that he had fallen ten points in his own estimat on. The
wily Victorian had taught him to blush for his ignorance
of the game of intrigue.
a
(P
ocs^cepQ
Tr?s
Oo
MS
ssfts
OtSm
m°<s
oi^O
95i&
&62S
oo^o9
QoftO
O ©‘or,
OflC f.
m
coo
o?Oo
►oo n *
,00 0
000
,OOG
*°o°:
'Oo
Oo
Oo
50
00
m
OO
00
°o°9
!°o 0 <
00 o
;o?
,0° o « c
as°A,
Jl®
o»
5-0
®o
Go
Ro
c>o
Oo
m
?So<
pOccc
,00
£o°~:
m
naOO
-00°
>o%<?o
/> <
V
&p<\
fcltwf?
USE
DUNLOP
HOSE
It does r\.ot
Crack
or Burst.
Aik your Storekeeper to procure
you Dunlop Hose if he
does not stock it. It is absolutely
the finest obtainable and will last
for years. Price and sample on
application.
THE DTJNLOF PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUS., LTD.,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY |
And At Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch (N.Z.)


'////////m/m.
m
m
'Twas Havelock saved the Flag—a page
That stirred old Hearts of Oak;
'Tis 44 HAVELOCK” comes once more—a leaf
We all delight to smoke.
Of pure Virginian growth, to all
The virtues It's akin;
And each tobacconist there Is
Will sell It, plug or tin.
A trumpery road board, which bosses a
few thoroughfares in a corner of the Wairarapa
(M.L.) district, donned its Sunday suit, t’other
day, and boldly passed a resolution condemning the
massacres in the Balkans. The resolution has been
sent to the Sultan of Turkey. In the M.L. House
of Reps., same week, a motion relative to Joe
Chamberlain was brought forward, and the portly
George Fisher, deprecating interference in outside
political squabbles, produced a framed copy of a
message signed, “ William Jukes Steward,” which
was sent to the Czar of Russia, a few years ago.
It was a protest about the treatment of the
Russian Jews. The Czar’s reply, which Fisher
read, was curt and pointed. It merely said that
Russia was minding its own affairs, and hoped
that Jukes would do likewise. Poor old Steward
(now a full-blown knight) was surprised at this
sudden resurrection of that famous message, and
looked on the floor dejectedly. Fisher stores up
all sorts of Parliamentary and other lumber, and
springs dead-and-forgotten things on the House
most abruptly. He even seems to know about
the girl you hugged at the other end of the State,
when nobody was looking, 16 years ago.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor-, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
That unparalleled sweater, the Salvarmy,
has this year struck a new idea for squeezing its
poor dupes ; it is actually offering a prize of a free
trip to Europe to the “officer ” who can grind out
the largest “self-denial fund” from his “corps”
during this month.
“Shadow”: Be child sweating. I have
made careful observation among my scholars,
and can say that the children (mostly boys)
who have to milk seven or eight cows morning
and night are invariably dullards. Cockies’
children generally present a heavy-eyed appear-
ance at school, and it takes teachers all their time
devising schemes to make the lessons attractive.
Am now in a farming locality, but as soon as I
can work the oracle, am off for a mining centre
again, where the children are at least lively, and
seem to take an interest in their lessons.
WHAT IS PAIN BALM 1
CHAMBERLAIN’S PAIN BALM is a
liniment, and, while adapted to all the ordinary
uses of a liniment, has qualities which distinguish
it from other remedies of this class. Pain Balm
is especially beneficial for rheumatism. Thou-
sands of cases can be cited in which it has effected
a cure when the sufferer had previously tried the
best medical service without securing relief. _ Pain
Balm is positively guaranteed to give relief in the
most severe cases of chronic or acute rheumatism.
Sold everywhere.*
mv
HOd HIVH aooo
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. Hit is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
£2T For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
flgF For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
A#
2*
I
c/2
Washington H. Soul & Co..
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sola by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 Geor<;o
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
CAMPBELL OIL ENGINES
m
Portable and Stationary.
26 Working in Queensland.
The Most Simple Oil Engine using Kerosene only.
Lists and Particulars FREE on application to the
SOLE AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND—
CLARK and FAUSET,
Eagle Street, Brisbane
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS and SAN KEY, Ltd
Oculists, Opticians, and
Manufacturers of Spectacles..
Brisbane and Rockhampton
y
OPTICAL BRANCH presided over by Mr. CHAS. SANKEY FRASER, F.S.n.C., Etc., Etc., who holds
the highest qualifications as an Optician in all Australia, viz. : Diploma Applied Optics, Northamton
Institute, London ; Diploma Visual Optics, Northamton Institute, London ; Diploma of the British Optical
Association, London ; Fellow of the Worshipful Company of Spectacle Makers of London, and Freeman of the
City of London ; Author of “ The Human Eye.” Send for Copy—Post Free.
Correspondence Invited—Prompt Attention Assured.
Recommended by Leading Oculists. “*(B
The Best and the Cheapest.
IT LAUGHS! IT TALKS! IT PLAYS! IT SINGS!
A PHONOGRAPH for
12/6
A Novelty.
mmmmm
m
m
m
"The Majestic”
A beautifully-made little instrument on
enamel and gold iron base, with nickel
horn. It is actuated by clockwork, which
is exceedingly simple.
Reduced to 12 6.
Though sold at this remarkably low
price it gives splendid results, speaks and
recites most distinctly, sings splendidly,
and plays beautifully. We have thousands
of Records to select from, and everyone
should now have a Phonograph in the
house. We are at all times willing to let
anybody who wishes, hear one.
SEND FOR LIST OF RECORDS.
Send for Catalogue of other Machines .
RECORDS:
2/- each; 21/- per dozen.
OSBORN
& JERDAN, “My Opticians. 1
393 George St., SYDNEY, and 213 Queen St., BRISBANE.
Mention This Paper.]


Coghlan, on old age pensions, must be bitter
reading for decent Victorians:
The average weekly income of a claimant in Victoria
during the six months immediately preceding the grant
of a pension, must not have amounted to 8s. per week
(in N.S.W. £1 per week is allowed); he must also have
made reasonable efforts to provide for himself, and this
is not necessary either in N.S. W. or Maoriland, where the
pension is granted in consideration of old age, and a
citizen may enjoy his pension on attaining the age of 65,
whether he is able to work or not; indeed, the law allows
him to supplement his income to the extent of 10s. per
week in N.S.W. and 13s. in Maoriland. The total income
enjoyed by the pensioners may therefore amount to 20s.
a week. In Victoria the amount of pension is determined
by the Commissioner appointed to adjudicate on the
matter, and 8s. is the maximum allowed, but the Com-
missioners have to determine what sum less than 8s. may
be reasonable and sufficient to meet the wants of the
claimant. Moreover, when a claimant, although he is
65, appears to be physically capable of earning, or partly
earning, his living, a pension may be refused, or fixed at
a lower sum than 8s. In Victoria the limit of a pen-
sioner’s income from all sources is 8s., although,
under certain conditions, he may be allowed to
earn a sum which, with his pension, will amount
to 10s. in all. The statutory maximum of pension
is diminished by 6d. per week for eveo' £10 of savings
accumulated by the claimant or by the value of the board
and lodging which he may receive. The father, mother,
brother, sister or child of claimant are required to assist
in the maintenance of the pensioner—and they may be
brought before the Commissioner’s Court to prove their
inability to contribute to the maintenance of the pen-
sioner to whom they are said to be related. It will be
seen that, whereas in N.S.W. and Maoriland, the Old Age
pension is a gift by the State to citizens who have contri-
buted by taxation and who, as the preamble to the
N.S.W. Act declares, have, during the prime of life,
helped to bear the public burthen of the State by the
payment of taxes and by opening up its resources by
their labor and skill—in Victoria the pension partakes
more of the nature of a charitable dole. It is easy to
understand, therefore, how it is that in N.S.W. there are
22,252 persons who are in receipt of pensions, in Maori-
land 12,776, while in Victoria the number is only 13,410,
although the persons of 65 years and upwards in Victoria
number 66,452 compared with 47,426 in N.S.W. and 31,965
in Maoriland.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies ah
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
inav be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
lfallowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints; Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : fYLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers snould
look for theregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright
HAVE YOU READ THE
STORY ARIGHT ? . . .
Mangatoki, Eltham, Taranaki, N.Z.,
May 21st, 1902.
Dear Sirs: One of our children was
apparently fading away, but from what
we could not determine. Mr. Alex.
McMmn, a journalist, saw our child, and ad-
vised us to try Scott’s Emulsion, which he was
sure would benefit her, as it had done in the
case of a granddaughter of his own. On giv-
mg it, the visible improvement began from the
second or third day. Continuing its use, the
child improved rapidly, eventually becoming
perfectly robust and healthy, and has enjoyed
excellent health ever since. We feel confident,
but for Scott’s Emulsion, we could not have
reared the child. Yours faithfully,
(Signed) D. Herlihy.
Frances Herlihy.
Messrs, Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent Street, Sydney.
HAVE YOU READ THE STORY
ARIGHT? A child’s face will always tell
you a true story of what is the matter when
illness has attacked the child. Y"ou may not
be able to determine exactly what ails it; that
is not easy even to practised eyes. The child
tells you very straightly and very plaintively
that it is physically unwell, and this is the
moment of all moments when you should read
the story aright! If you do read it aright, you
will give the child
SCOTT’S EMULSION. Because,
whatever may be the specific disease from
which the child may be suffering, Scott’s
Emulsion instantly, almost, builds up the
child’s strength, and gives that extra power
of resistance which it needs to throw out the
disease. This is the great secret why Scott’s
Emulsion always cures. It will cure your
child, even if you are not able to recognise the
disease. There is but one thing you have to
doQ and that is, to see that on the wrapper of
the bottle there is a picture of a man carrying
a big cod-fish; if that cod-fish is not there,
you are not getting what we promise you—
—a cure! You can obtain a sample of
Scott’s Emulsion and the choicest children’s
booklet of the year, “ A Bunch of Roses,”
beautifully printed in colours, by sending
sd. to Scott & Bowne, Ltd., 481! Kent-street,
Ss’dtiey, and mentioning this paper. All
chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
One Nigger, One Destiny.
An organisation called “The British Empire
League in Australia,” which has the fair Spruce
Myth as President and a committee with a very
large share of the alphabet after its name, has just
published its “ objects.” The objects are summed
up in a phrase, “ One People, One Destiny.” The
British Empire is to be one people with one
destiny. That ideal calls for a little explanation.
The British Empire, as at present constituted,
is made up of about one-tenth white man
and nine-tenths colored man — Zulu, Kaffir,
Hottentot, Lascar, Hindoo, Sikh, Chinaman,
Dacoit, Arab, Negro, Kanaka, Egyptian, South
American Indian and various other sorts of plain
and assorted nigger, ranging in color from dirty
yellow to soot black, and in religion from Ju-Ju
worship to esoteric Buddhism. It is the most
niggerish and the least Christian Empire in the
world. If it is to have one people and one destiny,
the color of that people will necessarily be some-
thing in sepia tones; it certainly won’t be white,
for when the white blood in a race mixture gets
down to the proportion of one-tenth it is practi-
cally of no account in determining the anthropo-
logical type. The religion of that people will be
something to make even a Free and Acoepted
Mason or a Gladsome Buffalo smile with deri-
sion. The destiny of that people will be to do the
dirty work of some race which has kept its white
blood clean—to graft in the cane-fields and the
cotton plantations for the French, or do chores for
the Yankee, and be frizzled at the stake when his
emotions need to be stirred by something more
exciting than a new religion. Is that what Spruce
Myth and Yes-No Reid and John See and
the other pirates of the alphabet propose ? As a
white race, Australians have now some hope of a
destiny, so long as they keep white. If they become
of one people with the British Empire they must
sacrifice all that hope, and welcome the British
nigger as a brother and the British Chinaman from
Hongkong as a friend. At present the tie which
Australians recognise is that of common citizenship,
of white blood, of common pursuit of Australian
white-race ideals. Does the Empire League
seriously propose that they should substitute for
that the abject bond of a common subjection to
King Edward ? Its “ One People One Destiny ”
motto ought to mean that, judged by the logic of
the beautiful Mr. Myth. Perhaps, though, the
League proposes to drop the nigger part of the
Empire, to leave India and the bits of China, and
the South Seas, and the bits of S’America, and
the swarming niggers of Africa out of the arrange-
ment, and run “One People One Destiny” on a
white basis. But gentlemen who have gained from
King Ned’s graciousness the right to overwork so
much of the alphabet are not likely to be guilty of
disloyalty to him. It’s probably on behalf of the
whole Empire, with all its niggers, that Aus-
tralia is being urged by the Empire League to
fraternise on one-people-one-destiny lines. And
that destiny is so palpably a nigger destiny that
Australia must pray to be excused. Only the
K.C.M.G. section of the community will fall in
with that platform.
♦
Touching the invasion of England by Polish
Jews, and the hideous squalor of their wretched
alien life, a London journalist argues this way:—
So long as any half-barbarous power like Russia has
permission to make life intolerable within its borders, or
holds a license to flood the world with living beings
whose faculties have run to waste through its own
maladministrative ignorance and tyranny, precisely so
long must the reforms of which it stands so urgently in
need be obstructed and delayed. It is no less mischievous
for a State to escape the punishment of its own misdeeds
than for an individual. Russia is busy on the manufac-
ture of stunted minds and animal types of human life.
It is the duty of all civilised nations to refuse the receipt
of her waste and refuse until she has learned the stern
lesson which an outraged race alone can teach her. The
only true wisdom—the only true kindness—lies in the
absolute refusal of all rights of settlement to those aliens
in English cities.
Substitute China for Russia, and the foregoing
remarks might be printed on the White Australia
ticket, and italicised. If it is a fair thing for the
Bweated native-born workers in England to refuse
starving-room to Russian immigrants, Australia
has a better right to send its Chows back to the
Flowery Land to stew in their own political
gravy. White workers here are subject to the
degraded competition and social ugliness of the
yellow heathen, whose minds were stunted by the
ignorance and tyranny of the ancient Ah Sin
Government.
4.
Decided unexpectedly, by absolutely the highest
Court of Appeal in England, that if a workman
gets hurt anyhow at his work, that is an “acci-
dent,” and brings him under the Compensation
Act. Formerly it had been held that he had no
claim unless he was hurt “ by accident,” as, for
instance, by something breaking. In the present
case he had strained himself in moving heavy
machinery, and every Court up to the top one
ruled him outside the Act. Luckily, he was able
to see the matter through, and now there
is an authoritative ruling that an accident is
“any unlooked-for mishap or untoward event
which was not expected or designed.” The
Law Lords seem to have got quite worked up
over it. “A man injured himself by doing some
stupid thing,” said Judge Macnaghten, “and it
was called an accident, and he got compensation.
The appellant in this case injured himself by
throwing all his might, strength and energy into
his work; then he was told that his case was
outside the Act because he exerted himself
deliberately, and there was a lack of the fortuitous
element. If that were held to be the true con-
struction, it would not be for the good of
employers in the long run, as men would simply
shirk anything in which they might hurt them-
selves.” Judgments of all the lower courts reversed
with costs.
The man who tries to manufacture anything but
deficits in Australia has a hard row to hoe, and
one of the reasons of the hardness was given in a
Sydney police-court customs case, the other day.
The representative of an English manufacturing
co. was in the box.
To Mr. Reid : Witness knew of an American product
known as cotton seed oil. There was a duty of 2s per
gallon on it.
How do the Customs deal with that ?—It is imported in
bulk, rebottled here, and sold in the different States as
castor and olive oil.
Mr. Reid : A slight difference. (Laughter.)
Witness said that no olive or cotton seed oil was manu-
factured in New South Wales. Everyone in the trade
knew what was done with cotton seed oil.
Yet the olive flourishes in parts of Australia as
well as it does anywhere in the world, and Aus-
tralian olive oil is on the market, where, however,
in the absence of a decent Adulteration Act, it has
to struggle for its life with this blazing imported
fraud.
The members of the See Government con-
sidered it would be “unseemly” to look for his
successor before the body of the late member for
Glen Innes was laid to rest. The “People’s
Reform League ” was not troubled by any foolish
sentiment of that sort.
YOU CAN BE CURED.
There are some diseases which are incurable, but these are fortunately rare. There are, on the
Other hand, two groups of disorders which afflict a large number of people, many of whom seem to
consider that there is no hope of release, for they go on suffering year after year when their cases
would readily yield to treatment if the root of the disdrder were attacked. The two groups referred
to are uric and biliary disorders, and they comprise the following common complaints :
URIC.
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Gravel and Stone
Bladder Troubles
BILIARY.
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Sick Headache
Anaemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
Now all these disorders originate from the same oiuse, namely the inability of the kidneys and
liver to properly perform their function of eliminating from the system the urinary and biliary poisons
which produce the disease.
The Kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every
day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight
of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying fronra third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
If the kidneys are working freely and healthily, all this solid matter leaves the body dissolved in the
urine, but if through weakness or disease the kidneys are unable to do their work properly, a quantity
of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins, contaminating the whole
system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning such as Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago,
Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Gravel, Stone, and Bladder
Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some urine,
passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until next morning. If it
is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural color, or has particles floating
about in it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore
their vigor, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric poisoning will
result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually
made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver
takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again
supply it to the blood, as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is
insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles
which have lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer
from some form of biliary poisoning, such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundice,
Sick Headache, General Debility, and Blood Disorders.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver, that,
where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys, the liver becomes affected in sympathy and vice
versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labour of those vital organs
which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be found
which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive
search for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in compound-
ing a medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Cure
exhibits a marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and
liver, and restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all coni plaints
due to the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys
and liver naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease.
Cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. [l5.
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING. MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
i&2
&
Noiseless Underwater. «
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 267 i.
WITH THE KINO ENGINE—ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
3YX cDE R M OTT & CO AX F A KT Y,
30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
mm
4
///
\\ N
*
No
Darkroom
No
pwawyDjQ..
EVERYTH INC
mm/a/optre 1 1 1 '
'ff niknthn this paper
m
2'B#€ollins St
MELBOURNE
‘•■{VA■ - ' r


The position of N.S. W. as defined, or left
undefined by its politicians in the Federal capital
matter :
(1) N.S.W. demanded Federation and originated the
latest Federal movement. It agreed _ with the other
States about the referendum, the minimum required to
carry the Federal proposals, etc.
(2) It gave a majority for Federation at the first
referendum with no stipulation as to where the Federal
capital was to be.
(3) That referendum was nullified by its politicians who
calmly over-ruled the will of the people by the famous
80,000 minimum clause and repudiated the agreement
with the other States.
(4) N.S.W. (per George Reid) demanded the right of
supplying the Federal territory and the Federal capital
site as the price of its adhesion, and got it. The terms
were that the site was to be 100 miles or any greater
distance from Sydney, and to consist of 100‘square miles,
or any larger area. George Reid was as proud of making
this arrangement as if he had got an extra dog.
(5) Things have progressed so far that the House of
Representatives, in which N.S.W. has the largest vote,
says 1000 square miles in the vicinity of Tumut will about
fill the bill.
(6) N.S.W. State Premier See is understood to be
(7) N.S.W. State Lands Minister Crick is understood to
say that N.S.W. won’t give the land—this after insisting
on its right to give the land as the sole condition on
which it would enter the Federation.
(8) N.S.W. Opposition-leader Carruthers has a theory
that N.S.W. is the only place that should have any voice
in the matter ; that its State Parliament should select
the capital of all Australia on its little own, and that the
Australian Parliament should then respectfully pass an
Act declaring that the Federal capital shall be in the ter-
ritory thus selected by N.S.W.
(9) George Reid, the man whose stupid cleverness and
thick-headed brilliance made him go buzzing down to
Melbourne, where, with great difficulty r , he got Sydney
disqualified for the billet of the Federal capital, says the
arrangement is ridiculous.
That is as far as things have progressed at time
of writing.
HOW TO AVOID STOMACH TROUBLES.
A disordered stomach may cause no end of
trouble. When the stomach fails to perform its
functions, the bowels become deranged, the liver
and' the kidneys congested, causing numerous
diseases, the most fatal of which are painless, and
therefore the more to be dreaded. The important
thing is to restore the Stomach and liver to a
healthy condition, and for this purpose no better
preparation can be used than CHAMBERLAIN’S
STOMACH and LIVER TABLETS. “Just
what you need.” Sold everywhere, Is. 6d.*
' Ready next month, Our New Selection,
by “Steele Rudd.”; Price,. 6s. Order at once
from The Bulletin office, and the book will be
posted immediately on publication.*
amusements.
piTZ-GERALD BROS.’
ALL NEW CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE,
IN THEIR OWN PERMANENT BUILDING,
JUST OVER PRINCES BRIDGE.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT-
Saturday, October I*7.
For a Short Season Only.
THE GREAT COMBINED SHOWS.
NEW FACES, FEATS and FASCINATIONS,
A BRILLIANT HOST of FOREIGN NOVELTIES.
THE LATEST AND GREATEST
ENGLISH & CONTINENTAL IMPORTATIONS
EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES, MONDAYS and TUESDAYS, and
ALL HOLIDAYS.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is. Box Plan Glen’s.
FIREWORKS! -
THE KING’S
BIRTHDAY,
9th NOV.
m
HONOR
THE
KINO !
PAIN'S FIREWORKS for this Great Event.
No License required this year for the Sale of
FIREWORKS!
No Advance in Prices. Send for Price List.
MYERS & SOLOMON, 42 market-street.
Boxes from 1/- to 40/-. God Save the Kino 1
Victoria Racing Club.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY OCTOBER 31
CUP DAY NOVEMBER 3
OAKS DAY NOVEMBER 5
STEEPLECHASE DAY... NOVEMBER 7
LARGE ENTRIES.
ACCOMMODATION FOR THOUSANDS.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION FARES.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
Amusements.
The new her majesty’s theatre.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
AN UNDOUBTED TRIUMPH.
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S Famous and Ever Welcome
ROYAL COMIO OPERA COMPANY,
THE TOREADOR.
Box Plan at Paling’s. S3T PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Under the Direction of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
ALFRED DAM PIER, Supported by the
CHARLES HOLLOWAY DRAMATIC COMPANY,
FROM CLUE TO CAPTURE.
SATURDAY, OCT. 17, Grand Revival of the Celebrated
Drama, IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
JHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Sole Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSCROVE.
LAST FIVE NIGHTS
and
FAREWELL TO SYDNEY OF
Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S COMPANY in Shakespeare’s
Enchanting Comedy,
AS YOU LIKE IT.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Nicholson’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sub-Lessee & Manageress, MissFITZMAURICE GILL.
MISS FITZMAURICE GILL’S DRAMATIC SEASON.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, OCT. 17,
MISS FITZMAURICE GILL, with her Specially-Selected
DRAMATIC COMPANY and MR. ALBERT GRAN
(Specially Engaged), will inaugurate her Sydney Season
with the Production of Wm. Bourne’s Drama, in Five Acts,
MAN TO MAN.
By arrangement with MR. GEORGE RIGNOLD, who has
consented to supervise the production.
PRICES—3s, 2s, & Is. No Early Doors. Plan at Elvy’s.
-|-OWN HALL, BYDNEY.
EVERY SATURDAY. EVERY
PEOPLE’S
PEOPLE’S POPULAR
POPULAR CONCERTS.
CONCERTS.
McADOO’S ORIGINAL
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS.
Plan at White Rose Confectionery Co., Pitt-street.
Reserved Seats, 2s.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv MISS EUGENE DUGGAN, in
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, OCT. 17, for the first time
in Australasia, HER SECOND TIME ON EARTH.
Prices—3/-, 2/-and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
the MUTOSCOPL
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES.
KING STREET ARCADE
»ni 400 GEORGE STREET.
Always on View. Admission FREE.
rVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. llarrv Rickards.
A Furore Created Nightly by MARZELLA,
Queen of the Feathered World.
Emphatic Success of THE POWERS BROTHERS.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
MR. DAN CRAWLEY, MISS LILIAN BISHOP,
London’s Comedian. Male Impersonator.
Miss NITA LEETE, Mr. ERNEST SULLIVAN,
THE TWO COLLIERS, Mr. EDWARD FORD,
Miss ELLA WELLINGTON, Miss MAGGIE FRASER,
Mr. LES WHARTON, and all our Great Co.
>PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
W. C. FIELDS, America’s Eccentric Juggler.
FRANCES LESLIE, America’s Soprano.
FREDERICK
H ALLEN
and
MOLLY
FULLER
WILL WHITBURN, CLARENCE SISTERS, CECILE
STEPHANS, THE LENTONS, FRANK YORKE,
HUGH HUXHAM.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. BEERBOHM TREE’S CO., including
Miss MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT
in a New Romantic English Play, entitled,
MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE,
The reigning London and New York Success.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
LAST NIGHT LAST NIGHT •
of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s New English Comedy Co. in
OH! WHAT A NIGHT.
The Famous English Comedian, Mr. CEORGE GIDDENS
as M. PINGLET.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee .. .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. .. C. Simonsens.
LAST NIGHTS . LAST NIGHTS
of Bland Holt’s Dramatic Company in the Great Stirring
Military and Naval Melodrama,
the union jack,
by H. Pettitt and S. Grundy.
BONNY, BREEZY, BOUYANT, BRILLIANT.
Prices— 3s. 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
The Hobart Gas Co. (Tasmania) :
' Dividends and Added to Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves
June, 1899 £4349 £8 17 9 p.c. = £4620 £3455
Dec., 1899 4743 817 9 „ 4620 £123 3578
June, 1900 4542 817 9 „ 4620 3500
Dec., 1900 4901 817 9 „ 4620 281 3781
June, 1901 4627 817 9 „ 4620 7 3788
Dec., 1901 5171 817 9 „ 4620 551 4339
June, 1902 5062 817 9 „ 4620 442 4781
Dec., 1902 5081 817 9 „ 4620 461 5242
June, 1903 5133 817 9 „ 4620 513 5755
As usual the company’s electric light business has been
unprofitable, the loss being £646, which is rather less
than usual. This branch of the business would only
just pay its way if the consumers paid 50 per cent, more
than they do now. The capital of the whole concern is
£99,000, on which the net profit is at the rate of about
£lO 7s 6d. per cent, per annum. The small reser*’es so
far accumulated are used in the business.
* * * *
B.H. Block 10 has placed an order—in Switzer-
land, of all places in the world—for its electric power
plant, the first of the kind to be used at Broken Hill for
general purposes. The new concentrating mill is nearly
finished ; the old plant, built on the outcrop, is twisted
all shapes, and the co. has been very lucky to keep it
running so long. This mine is working the deepest
levels on the field ; it is driving at 1215 ft., and stoping
at 1115 ft. Ore at the latter working is worth over
16 per cent, lead and 16oz. silver, with 21 per cent,
zinc ; but, though good grade, it is very hard and nob
easily milled. The new shaft is also making good pro-
gress ; poppet legs 105 ft. high are now going up. No
Broken Hill mine ever before had such a thorough clean-
ing-up and new equipment as Block 10 is getting ; and
only the old-established policy of the directors in main-
taining a fine reserve fund made it possible. The whole
operation has been carried out under the supervision of
an Australian-trained manager, Stanley Low.
• • • •
According to figures made available in London,
the Cobar Gold Mines (working the old Fort Bourke
claim) got out £47,165 worth of gold in the first
six months of the • year, of which £16,853 wa3
profit on working account. The outlay cn capital
account was about £2BOO, leaving a net profit of £14,000.
The July profit was, however, much better ; £10,822 gold
was won, and the expenses on all accounts amounted to
£5843, leaving a net profit of very nearly £5OOO for the
month. *
* * * •
Baker’s Creek, for 15 years past one of
N.S. Wales’ two most consistent gold-mines, and, like
most other N.S.W. metal mines of any value, held chiefly
outside the State (the co. has its head office in Adelaide),
has had to make a call. The co. is in 100,000 shares,
17s. 6d. paid up, and £2 14s. 6d. per share has been paid
in divs., while there is over £15,000 worth of machinery
on the mine. As development work has hitherto been
carried on to at least a fair extent, 473 ft. of sinking
having been done last year, it is not likely that more than
one or two calls will be necessary.
• * • *
“Sessil”: At Watson’s Creek tin-field, New
England (N.S.W.), the Scottish Consolidated Co. is still
pottering along. At a few feet, wash and water are
struck together, and it is impossible to sink to any depth
without boxing all the way down—the country being like
a quick-sand. The co. has won eight or nine tens of tin
during the last three months and ought to be able to
afford a pump. There doesn’t seem to be any leads or
even gutters—only rich patches. These are, probably,
the debris of lodes long since worn down, with the
mountains, by attrition. Best thing the co. can do is to
strip, with a bucket-dredge, the long narrow flat that
carries the tin. At present it is only scratching.
• • • •
Rumor has it that “Tatt.’s” Adams intends to
o-ive the Sunny Corner mine (N.S.W.), a further trial. A
few fortunes have been made out of Sunny Corner, but
for every fortune there have been a dozen failures, as
lunatic asylums, gaols, and foreign parts—where British
warrants cannot be executed—can testify. If there is a
hope for Sunny Corner it is in deep-sinking to determine
whether or not- there is a decrease in zinc, or such an
increase of that metal as to make it a payable proposition
for zinc. This will mean a big sink into which to pour
the gains from “ Tatt.’s” sweeps. “ Tatt.’s ” is recognised
as a plucky mining speculator ; reopening the Sunny
Corner mine will mean the pluckiest enterprise ever
undertaken in N.S.W.
• * * *
Crowl Creek, Shuttleton (N.S.W.), half-yearly
report should satisfy the most sceptical that Crowl Creek
is the embryo of one of the big copper-producing and
profit-earning mines of the State. The mine has the
advantage that it is something new ; it is not a resuscita-
tion of an old show to be boosted on past records. The
Melbourne men who own the mine have shown sound prac-
tical judgment in developing and equipping it. Shuttleton,
by the way, is not to be a .one-mine place like the majority
of N.S.W. fields. The Sydney syndicate which holds an
option on three 40 acre blocks immediately south of the
Crowl Creek mine, reports an important development in
its southernmost block, fully half-a-mile distant from the
Crowl Creek workings. In sinking in a lode channel,
which must be fully 100 ft. wide, a solid sulphide lode has
been struck, worth, in bulk, 10 percent, copper. In 25ft.
of sinking the lode widened from a thread to 6ft. of
dense, self-fluxing material. In the central block held
by the’ syndicate a shaft is being sunk to intersect the
lode discovered by the original prospector of the field.
This shaft is now down over 150 ft., and it is anticipated
that the lode will be struck shortly.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) has been marking time,
waiting for the new mill to turn up. Australian makers
are apparently very full of orders, as the delivery of all
plants recently ordered from South Australia has been
slow This mill should start before the end of the month.
* * * *
Golden Link’s Eclipse lease, Kalgoorlie (W.A.),
is now equipped with a 20-head mill, 10-head having been
purchased from the defunct North Star Co., Mt. Malcolm.
From November onwards co. should be turning out
4000 oz. monthly, and, as costs, with increased crushing
powers', will not exceed 15s. a ton, large profits, say
£lO 000 a month at least, should be earned. Whether
they will be available for divs. is another matter, as the
co. has a greedy monster in the Golden Link lease. Up
to the last reconstruction, in October, ’O2, no less than
£320,000 cash had been swallowed by various wild-cat
lease’s held by this co. At present the co. is in 400,000
shares, of which 353,183 are issued paid up to 18s., leaving
a liability of 2s. a share to be called up. Probably out of
the first profits this liability will be liquidated by simul-
taneously declaring a div. of 2s. and a call of a similar
amount. It is only fair to say that the Golden Link lease
i« looking more promising than it ever did before, and
may possibly soon pay its own way. In October, ’O2, co.
had £20,000 cash clear after paying all debts. Since then
the Eclipse has earned a profit of about £40,000, of which
about £7500 came in during August.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe (W. A.), with both the old and
the new mills running, should be treating 18,000 tons
monthly. Even at the increased tonnage, the co. has
more than two years’ reserves blocked out; and, as there
will shortly be double the number of rock drills at work,
energetic development is clearly intended.
The total amount of divs. already declared for
Oct. by W.A. mines amounts to £170,760, as follows:
Great Fingall, £75,000; Ivanhoe, £50,000 ; Brown Hill
Extended £25,000, Kalgoorlie £15,000, Ida H. £5400, and
Lancefield 1 360.
* » • •
Princess Royal Central, Norseman (W.A.),
floated with a capital of 100,000, half contributors’ and
half vendors’, the latter paid up to 10s., looks a good
proposition. The (jo. owns 72 acres to the east of the
Princess Roval; the'latter, up to date, has produced nearly
400 000 of gold and distributed one quarter of that
amount in divs. The Central Co. holds the whole of the
deep levels of the parent mine, and, as the reef is very
flat and becomes flatter in depth, it should be workable
for a very long stretch on the underlay. Manager Treloar
(of the parent mine) estimates that the reef does not
leave his property till an average depth of about 1000 ft.
is reached • but, all the same, the Princess will be lucky
if it has the reef at 750 ft. The best chute is towards
the south end of the property, and, as it has a distinctly
eastern trend, it mav make into the Central ground at
much less than even that depth. Shareholders in the
Princess, who at the recent meeting refused to sanction
the absorption of the Central on the easy terms proposed,
will live to regret their decision.
MRS. C. M. ROBINSON, Wynyard Hotel,
Ershine and Clarence Streets, Prize Winner,
Waitara Bal Masque.
Hannan’s Main Reef (W.A.) has been recon-
structed for the third time. Holders in the old co., which
was in 200,000 shares, receive share for share fully paid,
and have the doubtful privilege of subscribing for one
new share at 2s. 6d. for each two old shares held. Of the
new issue, 60,000 shares (or half the total) are under-
written at the fixed price of 2s. 6d. In March last the co.
acquired a new property of 48 acres at Niagara, known
as Parnell’s, together with a 10 - head mill, for
£3500 cash and 40,000 shares, and abandoned
its Kalgoorlie leases. Since then a main shaft
has been sunk to 188 ft., and a level put in at 140 ft.,
which shows a chute of stone about 300 ft. long worth
loz. for a width of Ito 2ft. A parcel of 400 tons treated
at. the Government battery gave nearly 20dwt. per ton.
The new show is not a flash one by any means, but still is
a decided improvement on the wild cat at Kalgoorlie, on
which thousands of pounds were fruitlessly expended.
As Associated Northern Kalgoorlie (W.A) has
now crosscut some 100 ft. west of the shaft at the 1050 ft.
level without finding the 8 to 10ft. soz. 'lode which was
alleged to exist 70ft. west, it is pretty safe to conjecture
that the lode is pure myth. Manager Roberts, who
asserted that he had every reason to believe that No. 6
borehole, which was said to have enountered this
lode, was genuine, feels so sick that he has parted com-
pany with his predecessor's underground manager,
assayer, and other officers. The treatment plant on the
mine is being pushed ahead with great vigor, and an im-
posing building now decorates the Iron Duke hill. The
treatment of the ore will be started before many weeks
are over, and it is fairlv certain that the 20 months’
supply estimated by Manager Roberts will be greatly
exceeded. _ „
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) is pushing ahead
with its main shaft, and should be in a position
to open up its seventh, or 526 ft. level, about the
end of the month. The drives from the bottom
of the winze below the 446 ft. level have got into
% poor zone and caused a very big slump in the
shares, but anyone who has followed the history of the
mine will not be greatly discouraged by this develop-
ment. The breaks in the country continually throw the
reef eastwards, and once the main shaft is down and the
mine properly opened up, it is quite possible that the
proper channel will be met with. The disquieting
feature is that the returns for the last four months have
shown a continuous decline as follows : —1337, 1248,1161
and 1018 oz. The Menzies district is, however, so patchy
that even this decline need not cause much uneasiness.
The milling power on the mine is shortly to be doubled,
and anyone who knows the cautious spirit of manager
Ferguson and of the Queensland board of directors will
hardly be scared out of his holdings.
* * * *
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W. A.), has suspended
operations, and let the ground on tribute. This is the very
best policy it could pursue, as the mine is so patchy that it
cannot be worked with certain profit; but the known rich-
ness of the patches induces men to have a cut at it even
though they may put in months of fruitless labor. All the
energies of the management will, in future, be directed
to the South Gippsland leases, Yosperton, which continue
to look well, and it is anticipated that the mill will run
full time from the end of the month, and that, by that
time, the cyanide plant will be in good swing. Although
the last return only averaged loz., it is expected that, at
least for a time, the 30dwt. average will be maintained.
* * * *
Zoroastrian, Bardoc (W.A.), was recently re-
constructed, and, apparently to dodge the British laws,
was registered in Guernsey. This fact alone should
warn speculators. The recent reconstruction was sup-
posed to give directors £13,500 to play with. The co.
sank 400 ft. and had to crosscut an equal number of feet
to reach the reef, and now proposes sinking on the under-
lay. Anyone acquainted with mining knows what this
means. .... . . ,
At Poverty Point.
When Julius Knight is interviewed nowadays he seems
to forget his first visit to Australia, when he played jeune
premier in the Laura Villiers co., tall Clifton Alderson
being the leading heavy man. That was in 1891. After
the unfortunate Laura Villiers season some of the mem-
bers of the co. were engaged to support Walter Bentley,
and Julius made one of his last appearances in Melbourne
(that j'ourney) as Laertes in “ Hamlet.”
A letter recently received from Miss Kate Rooney by a
friend says: “ I have been touring with William Ludwig’s
concert company and have just returned from a delightful
walking excursion through Wales. We did 27 miles one
day, including ascent and descent of Snowdon. I have
engagements booked on into April, 1904. Can find
plenty of work here now, but many other Australians are
less fortunate.”
Reported from America that Miss Nance O’Neil, after
a long run of ill-luck, has almost lost the use of her voice.
She always overworked her throat. There were the
makings of a fine tragedienne in Nance O’Neil, but she
was allowed to grow up wild. With a manager of the
physique of John L. Sullivan, and the irascible particu-
larity of a Dot Boucieault—a manager who would have
pruned down her extravagances and drilled her into dis-
cipline, even if he had to drag her around the stage on her
fine back by her luxuriant hair—Nance would have been
one of the world's greatest actresses.
“0.K.”: One gets so tired of being told that “Ada
Crossiey is a good woman.” Some years ago the same
advertisement was uttered on behalf of another con-
tralto singer, Antoinette Sterling, but it carried no
weight outside of church circles, because the singer in
that case was older and decidedly fat. Art is no respecter
of moral character in the artist.
Powerful lines from advt. of a Sydney Lyceum horror :
“ She comes like a spectre from out of the gloom,
A voice from the other world to proclaim his doom.
Once so silent in the grave she rises therefrom,
To imperil his soul like an awful maelstrom.
In the midst of joyous weddingbells and mirth,
’Tis she who returns Her Second Time on Earth."
“Imperil his soul.like an awful maelstrom” is weirdly
intense.
"The Troubadour”: Monday, October 12th, was the
37th anniversary of the death, in France, of VV nliam
Vincent “Maritana” Wallace, so often reported as a
Sydney musician, or, with equal inaccuracy, as having
composed “ Maritana ”in Sydney. Wallace was an Irish-
man. At 18 he conducted a performance of Beethoven s
difficult “Mount of Olives” oratorio in Dublin Soon
after that the health of the over-studious lad broke down
completely, and, on the advice of his doctor, he went
off to Australia where he quickly recovered. After that
he visited most of the world’s great cities, and arrived in
London in 1845. There he composed his operas.
“ J.A.0.” : The deceased Clarance Holt visited Austra-
lasia in ’57, and again in '62. In the latter year, while in
Dunedin, M.L., his son, Bland, then a young boy, joined
him. He came out from England under charge of J. J.
Bartlett, a comedian still favorably remembered here, and
was educated at Dunedin High School. At the time, his
father, the deceased C.H., had built, and was managing,
a theatre in the muddy city of the southern Scot. An
ex-actor named Willmott was then keeping the Occidental
Hotel, Dunedin, and subsequently acquired the old Goal
Hole (juasi-music-haU, j’ust off the Strand, London,
which he converted into an hotel, also under the name of
Occidental. At the Goal Hole, Holt and Willmott renewed
their Maoriland intimacy, and together opened the Duke’s
Theatre, Holborn, with “ New Babylon,” the play with
which, at Melbourne Royal, Bland Holt initiated his
managerial career. The Duke’s Theatre had seen many
vicissitudes, its name had been frequently changed, and
most of those who tackled it came to grief. But H. and
W.’s enterprise was eminently successful, so much so
that in ’B3 they leased the Grand Theatre, Islington-
built on the site of the Philharmonic Music Hall,
the scene of the early triumphs of Emily Soldene
and Julia Matthews. The opening piece was a melo-
drama, by Sefton Parry, entitled “ Bright Future,” and in
it G. P. Carey made his first acquaintance with a London
audience. On the night of the last rehearsal trouble
arose. One of the characters had to be thrown from a
pier into the alleged sea beneath ; he was supposed to
vanish into the great deep by rolling over on to a trap
about a foot below the stage level. The actor most
interested did not think the trap safe. Holt thought
it was and promptly backed his opinion, with the result
that he fell 30ft. to the cellar floor. He was found
apparently not much the worse and finished the rehearsal.
All next day he attended his duties, and stage-managed
the play at night; then he fainted and was carried to the
famous hostelry, the Angel, opposite, and a doctor found
that he had three broken ribs. For many weeks he was
unable to move, during which time he was nursed by the
manageress of the hotel, and he, being then a widower,
ultimately married her and made her Bland’s step-
mother. I only met Clarance Holt once, when the con-
versation turned on “The Octoroon.” He was regarded
as the best exponent of Wah-no-tee, the Indian, a panto-
mime part, and he appeared to be prouder of that than
of more important achievements.


HYDATIDS CURED
PERSONS living in country parts, in centres remote from the services and advices of a reliable medical man, would
do well to read of this great cure from HYDATIDS, the scourge of all Australian country districts. In case of
any such fearful affliction they should write at once to the Medical Staff of
The Freeman and Wallace Medical Institute, Sydney,
who are medical experts in this disease and all others afflicting the NERVES, BLOOD and STOMACH. Any suffering
person far from professional aid, may by the Specialists’ system of Home Treatment be treated in their own homes as
well as if personal visits were paid. Mr. Dyer, who has been permanently cured of HYDATIDS by the Specialists,
was a sufferer for years, and had been in many hospitals. Read his testimony. We publish also his photograph
shewing the healthy man he is to-day since he regained his health. It will do anyone good to read his letter.
SPECIALISTS IN DISEASE
Mr. Dyer’s cure of Hydatids is but
an individual proof of a general fact
thatin all classes of MEN’S DISORDERS
they are pre-eminent in the treatment
and cure. If it were necessary thou-
sands of testimonies could be produced
from suffering men in proof of this
great truth.
The Most Singular Success
has attended the Specialists during the
quarter of a century they have prac-
tised in Australia. They are
Experts in Men’s Diseases
by reason of special facilities afforded
them in studying continuously by
virtue of their extensive practice many
classes of disorders which are only met
with occasionally by the average medi-
cal man. Skill, Experience, and Perfect
Knowledge is backed up by
A £lOOO Guarantee Bond
which is a proof to the patient that all
medical contracts undertaken will be
faithfully performed.
r
■
■
■ -
Mr. C. P. DYER.
MR. DYER’S TESTIMONY.
Writing from No. 2 Little Barcom Street,
Darlinghurst, Sydney, on the 20th June, 1903,
Mr. Dyer tells his story of affliction and re-
covery :
“ Through the treatment I received
from the SPECIALISTS of your IN-
STITUTE, I speedily recovered from
HYDATIDS, which disease was fol-
lowed by inflammation of the bowels.
" I have been a patient in two Sydney
hospitals, getting no relief in either,
and, being without sleep for seven
nights, I consulted DR. R. WALLACE,
the Physician-in-Chief of the Insti-
tute. The pain I suffered up to this
time was almost unbearable, but from
the time of beginning your remedies I
began to mend, and soon I was com-
paratively a new man. Although I
still continue under treatment, in order
to build up my strength, I consider
myself well in every respect, and
willing to testify and gratefully
acknowledge the skill and success
attending the labors of your Specialists.
“ (Signed) C. P. DYER.”
Full particulars of this wonderful cure will be
forwarded to any applicant, with special pam-
phlet of reliable testimonies from cured persons.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
Ihis splendid institution, the most scientific in the Southern world, is the professional centre to which thousands
of suffering men gravitate yearly. Men who have suffered from Prostatic Troubles, Varicocele, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Loss of Vital Power, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Blood Diseases arising from a Specific Blood Poison, and other Serious Ailments,
have testified to the Specialists’ wonderful skill. Testimonies are daily received from the most reputable sources. All
letters are replied to with professional privacy, each letter receiving the direct supervision of the Physician-in-Chief, Dr.
R. WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.P.P.S., E. L.M., who is registered by Australian, English and American Medical
Boards. (See N.S.W. and Victorian Registered Practitioners’ List.) Consultations and Advice are Pree. One of the
finest medical works, favorably reviewed by over 150 Australian journals, “ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 750 pages, 150
medical plates, of which the Specialists are the authors, will be posted free to any address for Five Pence in Stamps.
CAUTION !
Beware of Persons
who imitate the
Specialists’ methods
of advertising; and who pretend to offer for
sale for 10s. their £1 Electric “ Invigorator ”
Belt for which they have special Australian
patent rights. This is only a trick to secure
trade. These are only base imitations. The
Specialists employ no Agents or Canvassers.
The FREEMAN and WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney
A tale of sill:—
“It was that there piece as we used ter call Spring
Lamb that done it, an’ Johno an' his missus ain’t bin
gpeakin’ since,” said Billy, as he laid aside the horse paper
to tell the news to his mate, who lay back in the barber’s
chair. “Youknoo Spring Lamb, the yeller-haired one
up at Ballarat—Waxy Cohen took a great fancy to her
when you was fightin’ Patsy Lynch there last Chris’mas.”
An inarticulate sound came from the mass of lather.
“Well,” continued Billy, “when we was there at the
show Johno cottoned on to this here Spring Lamb,
kiddin’ his missus as he was wanted at nights to fix up
the place for next day. But when the show was over an’
we was all ready to git back ter Melbourne, we sits down
in the pub. for dinner—me an’ Johno an’ his missus—
when in poles an ole duchess wif her fightin’ face
on. ‘Which of yous is Mr. Smith?’ she says, an’ she
steps up ter me jest as if she was goin’ ter swing on me
jaw. ‘That’s’im,’l says. ‘ Oh,’she saj's, ‘that’s ’im is
it? Look here,’ she says, walkin’ over ter the table where
Johno was sittin,’ ‘ I want five bob off of 3 r ou. You ruined
me daughter.’ I thought I’d er died. But Johno he
jest gets hell fer leather, with the old tart chasin’ him up
a-hollerin’ for her five bob. An’ when I sees Johno, he
says, ‘Strike me pink,’ he says, ‘what’ll I say ter the
missus?’ ‘Say as ’ow it’s all a tale ter exhort money,’ I
says, and Johno did, but his missus,came along wif a lip
as’d trip a tram. ‘ I’ve heard that there story before,’
she says. An’ that’s why Johno an’ his missus aint
speakin’.’’
“Vigilans”: I was staying at a station
500 miles east of Albany (W.A.). It had been a
pouring wet night, and just as we were going to
sit down to breakfast an apparition appeared in
the doorway in the shape of a wild-looking, hairj l ,
hatless, bootless wreck. “Well,” the manager
smilingly inquired, “ do you want some rations ?”
“No, I don’t carry no swag or rations. I travels
about the bush. Give me something to eat if you
have anything handy; the last place I had a feed
was at Brown’s, 50 miles away.” “Where’s
your hat?” we asked. “I don’t wear no
hat or boots. I haven’t worn a hat for
two years.” He was bald-headed. He then
told us that he had walked from Port Augusta
(S. A.) 1500 miles, via Eucla, Norseman, Esperance
and Belladonia. The longest tramp he had
without a meal was 80 miles; lie generally went
between 30 and 40. “ The Lord will provide,” he
said. At night he made a hole in the sand and
built a fire in it. When this had burnt out he
scraped out the ashes and slept in it naked, using
his clothes as covering. He was one of the 12
apostles, and went where the Lord directed him.
He was a Swede, large and heavy, with a back on
him capable of carrying a ton. After eating a leg
of mutton and a large loaf of bread and drinking
about two quarts of post-and-rail he left for
Ravensthorpe, 80 miles away, absolutely refusing
rations. This country is a sandy wilderness.
“ Recipe ” writes :
Re pars, in Bulletin (3/9/’O3 and 17/9/’O3) concerning
chemists’ narrow escapes. The owners of those pill-
punching establishments should be dropped over the
Gap, at South Head, for the public good. Chemist
spoken of in B. of 3/9/’O3 should keep his poisons locked
up, to curb their walking propensities. “ A. Pothecary ”
(B. 17/9/’O3) is evidently not a chemist, and his leading
chemist has been “pulling his leg.” British Pharmacopeia
ssss'sasffiiffi
contains 1 grain in 110 minims, the dose is from 2 to 8
minims. Latter is the more frequently prescribed.
Now, £oz., or 120 grains of the former, would more than
fill an ordinary dispensing scale-pan, and that leading
chemist must have been more than , ordinarily “ full”
before retiring the previous night, and certainly more
than half-asleep when making up that Judge’s prescrip-
tion, not to have noticed the mistake he led the writer of
the par. to believe had been made. Reference to your
family chemist would have exposed the absurdities in
‘‘A. Pothecary’s ” par. There’s no mystery in the story
—only plain lie.
The Bulletin didn’t refer to its family chemist,
because it doesn’t keep one. It buys its hair-
restorer at any shop that happens to be nearest at
the moment when it remembers its increasing
baldness.
t\ i i i i ■, . ,
Dumbleton, R WGclk wit, OllG of tllG new
Tory members of Tasmania’s Assembly, is at least
loyal in his adherence to Vandemonian tradition.
There is for instance, a proposal to impose an
absentee tax, winch would raise some money from
the infamous V.D.L. Co. s monopoly. 1 his very
much distresses Dumbleton, among others. Hear
him :
It seems to me, sir, that it is not a just thing to do—
as a matter of honesty, I doubt very much whether we
should place anything like this very serious tax on absen-
tees. I admit that the Y.D.L. Company may be an
octopus; but I doubt very much whether the Assessment
Act will make it pay more readily than it has in the past,
. . . This sort of thing practically means confiscation,
and I hope no hon. member here will support any measure
of that sort.
oMs I ,?tir„?S“ mbleton tire
• one ?“ °Pi ni ons of a very virtuous Van-
. m.ian.. Lhe Vandemonian ranks the absentee
ln universe alongside of God—who is very
much absent from Vandemonian politics most of
the time. The incubus of the VD L Go is and
for long has hoon thn mi™, nf Vp ' ’ •’ ’ rp.
mononolvls ’ th * of Tasmania. The
i, A u P l 3 supreme tax-dodger, and the land
® Holds is worse than useless to the State,
,
isonie Unexpected .Protectionist truths in
the Sydney Evening News leader of 5/10/’O3 :
From first to last, the efforts of the working-classes
llave been devoted too much to schemes for altering the
distribution of wealth, while they have never concerned
themselves at all with improving the production of
wealth. In all their latter-day schemes, ... it is hard
to find any proposal tending to make two blades of grass
g'row where one grew before. . . Our present production is
ridiculously small compared to what it might be, and the
wa #e-earners are beginning to find that wages are about
affor&ofitep^nt^^tlTOp^^f 6
circumstances, it behoves the working man to face the
problem of the decreasing population in the interior ; the
lack of settlement in lands already reached by railways •
THE ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF GOODS IMPORTED
LOCALLY ® OUNTKY THAT SHOULD BE GROWN
-j-, ' .
Lxactly ! Let us sit hard down on the importing
craze, and on the Freetrade craze which leads to
importing, and set to work to make two boots
grow lona 11 v whprp nnlir j.
Tl! Lr J B °° tS
‘ subject to drought and rabbits, and they
are <l ulte as important as grass.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion* It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.”
Curious remark by S.M. Herald :
Sine* 1878 Canada has not really known bad timet.
At that rate, the good times began in 1879. And
it was in 1879 that a very heavy Protective tariff
was imposed in Canada. It wasn’t Federation
that brought the good times ; Federation began in
1867, and the bad times still remained. It wasn’t
the Pacific Railway—that wasn’t open till 1886.
The good times in Canada, by the Freetrade
paper’s showing, began with the year of high
Protection, and there have been good times and
high Protection ever since.
CHAMBERLAIN’S PAIN BALM,
is famous for its cures of rheumatism. _ One
application relieves the pain, and its continued
use for a short time ensures a cure.
Pain Balm is a general liniment, and without
an equal for lame backs, pains in the side, limbs,
or chest, sprains, swelling, lameness, cuts, bruises,
burns ; and will cure all such ailments in less time
than any other treatment. Sold everywhere at
Is. 6d.*
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.,
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
No. F 7989. —9ct. Gold Leal and Wilhbone
Broochr, 11s 6d.
No. G637.—Solid Silver Bean Shape
Match Box, 8s 6d.
No. FBl9o.—9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar, Lea!
and Heart Brooch, 8a 6d.
/-
m
!o Gl4.—'The Nurses’ Watch, Keyless,
)p'en Face, Engraved Silver Case, fine
rewelled Lever Movement, Warranted
Reliable, 32s 6d.
We have looked long for a good
Nurses’ Watch, and at last we
believe we have seoured the
very one wanted.
No. 112.—Handsome 9ct. Gold and Fine
Amethyst Brooch, 18s fid.
Our Variety makes Suitable Selection Easy. —
BUYING as we do for Eight Stores, each as Well-Stocked as our Sydney one, means that we
have advantages offered us such as no Jewellery business in Australia can claim. We have
our own warehouse in Hatton Garden, London, manned by Experts who see more goods
in 24 hours than most buyers see in I 2 months. You see thus that we can offer you the
very pick of the Home market at fascinatingly low prices. We don’t keep all the advant-
ages we get to ourselves —we pass them on to you. A most important point, and one we adhere
to is, we never sacrifice the quality for the sake of being able to quote a very low price for an
article. Quality Is our first consideration. Remember this when you want anything in our line,
as quality must count with you as well as with us. Illustrated Catalogues Free on application.
No. BB34l.—Solid Silver and Pearl Book-marker, 81in., 4s ; larger, 6s 6d.
No. F7850.—9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar and
Leaf Brooch, 8s 6d.
No. FBlB6.—The Latent
Lace Pin, Emu or
Kangaroo, 7s 6d.
No. F7731.—-Novel Style Salt
Cellar, with Spoon, Silver-plate,
4b 6d.
No. FB2ls—Cut-Glass and Solid
Silver Toilet Bottle, 5J inohes
high, 22s 6d.
No. F 7065. —9ct. Gold, two-bar Ornamented
Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. G2dB.—Polished English Oak and Nickel-mounted Double
Inkstand, £1 SB.
No. E4933.—Fruit Dish
China, 7 inches square,
Silver-plated Stand, '
Pretty
strong
6d.
No. F29s6—Silver-plated Fern
Pofc, handsomely chased;
4in., 22s 6d ; 6Jin., 37s 6d.
No F 5908.— Solid Silver Bowl on Ebony Stand, Scinches
’ high, 7i inches wide, £lO 10s; in best Plate, 84s.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
No. F 6588. —Case containing: 2 Pearl and Silver-
plated Butter Forks, 14s 6d.
No. EB7s9.—Best Quality Silver-plated Tile Centre
Teapot Stand, 10a 6d.
No. E 6797. —9ct. Gold Brooch, set Sapphire, Ruby
and Diamond, 16s 6d.
No. F493B.—Case of 2 Out-Glass
Silver Mounted Knife Bests, 11/6.
No. FB7o4.— Remarkable
Value. Diamond, Ruby and
Sapphire Scarf Pin or Pin
and Stud, Fine Gold Settings,
£3 10s.
No. Es627.—Strong 9ct. Gold Twist Bracelet.
A Pretty Style, 32s 6d
m
412. GEORGE Sj SV DNEY .
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from it.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEETOO SRIPIUIIIIE * CO., NELIOBiUIE
BLACK, BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases):—
PRICE IN MELBOURNE per
„ SYDNEY (E. Rioh * Co., Ltd.) m .. “
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) « « ■*'“ 11
„ HOBART (Wm. Oreiby * Co.) « •• •* "
Gallon.
The Inky Way.
An Australian short-story writer lately approached a
Brisbane paper with some of his wares. The business
manager was very civil, but informed him that under no
consideration could he accept stories by local authors. If
Steele Rudd, or Favenc, or Lawson offered them, they
would only be refused. “The Australian public is sick of
yarns about familiar subjects. His paper found that
stories of dukes, earls, counts, duchesses and so on suited
the public for whom it catered better than anything else."
» * » •
11 B.” :Rt a recent par. regarding " Answers to Corres-
pondents” columns in the weeklies. Most of them have
their specialities. Melbourne Australasian is a terrible
trouble to one Isidore Kosminsky who, week after week,
has to inform two or three correspondents that the “ coin
submitted is a Julius Ceesar half dollar ”; that the
“ Queen Anne shilling is not worth £50,” or other coinage
queries. Numismatics don’t trouble the Sydney Mail.
Most of the correspondents of that journal are persona
who have dug enormous holes in their property and
implore the Mail to inform them, please, how many cubic
yards of earth have been cast forth. Judging by the fre-
quency of the appeals the Mail’s correspondents must
own an awful lot of big holes.
* * • *
A Maoriland provincial journal jubilates as follows :
“We are always pleased to chronicle the success of
fellow townsmen. Mr. , for many years with Mr.
■ , storekeeper, and who owes us £3 I7s. 6d., has
received a lucrative appointment at Napier.”
• * * •
The London Times is decaying, according to a writer in
the Printers’ Register, and he seems to make out a good
case. In 1883 the Times had 349 columns of advertise-
ments a week; in 1903 it has only 204 columns a week.
The Times column is worth about £2O; so the drop in
revenue is about £3OOO a week ! Probably the Times has
done itself serious damage by its booming of obsolete
publications on Yankee lines; but its price (3d.) is the
chief cause of its failure to keep a hold on the public.
* * * *
Judge Rentoul, of the English Bench, has raised some
new points of importance to the proprietors of Sunday
newspapers. Edward Lloyd, Limited, sued an agent
named Poole for over £2 for copies of the co.’s Sunday
paper supplied. The defence was that the Lord’s Day
Observance Act is a bar to the claim. Judge Rentoul eon-
idered that both plaintiffs and defendant joined in an
illegal transaction, and that neither could claim the
assistance of the court. Also he added: “Sometimes
men made bargains in buying horses on Sundays, but
they generally said, * I would give you so much for the
horse if it were not Sunday.’ Attempts of that kind to
get round the law could not be allowed.” Sunday news-
papers in Australia are part of the revolt against anti-
quated laws, and in some States Parliament dare not try
to put them down, but if the buyer can legally repudiate
payment a new difficulty arises.
An old newspaper dodge, on suburban and country
newspapers, is seemingly going out of fashion or
has been worked out. In days not far back the
veteran ink-man always knew where to find a man when
opposition was required at the local municipal elections.
First of all he would sound the retiring candidates,
assuring them of his support and influence, and when he
had secured their “ ads ” and printing he would work up a
most promising requisition to some new man and dazzle
him till he got six insertions of the requisition, with a
statement attached that Mr. Deadhorse had acceded to the
request of all these enthusiastic ratepayers, and would
stand. Now the editor is reduced to printing a ‘ local
hinting that our old and tried representative, Councillor
Logblocks, will not seek re-election, when the said Log-
blocks is as keen after re-election as a crow is after eggs.
Then Logblocks has to advertise his intention to stand
(or fall) against all-comers. Verily, the dodges of the ink-
man are many.
• J e • •
“ Scribe" : The variations in price of the Melbourne
daily papers have been interesting. The Argus, Age and
Herald, as rival morning papers, were 3d. each. Then
they rose to 6d., and afterwards came down again to 3d.
The next move was the Agb dropping to 2d., in 1867, and
not long afterwards it came down to Id. Meanwhile, the
Herald had been unable to stand the competition, and
changed to an evening paper at Id. David Syme tried to
run it with the Age, whence came the expression
“ Sj'mese Twins." He parted with the Herald to one
Forsyth, and soon Winter appeared on the scene. The
Argus was too slow in dropping to 2d., and too slow again
in dropping to Id. The Dailt Telegraph ran for about 20
years. There has never been more brilliant diurnal
writing in Melbourne than when the morning Herald
employed such pens as those of Michie, Evans and
Aspinall. The sub-editor was Akhurst, who wrote a num-
ber of Christmas pantomimes.
Melbourne Tocsin says that Treasurer
Turner wished to resign when the Federal Minis-
try was reconstructed. Pity he didn t. With
Turner out of it, the Deakin Ministry could be
sent to its death without a tear.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
Written by a man in Hobart:
Vandemonian newspapers, celebrating the centenary of
that island by scores of columns of special splurge, were
very wishy-washy and uncertain in their history, and left
out more than they mentioned. In addition to leaving
out all the sins of the fearsome British ruffians sent out
as Governors, they dropped all mention of the most
picturesque institution of early Hobart —the Ginger Team.
In the old hot daysv when the roaring whalers came up
like seven devils from the seas, the Ginger Team lorded it
in Hobart as Resident Counsellors of the Devil. The
Team was composed of gentlemen with red heads:
gentlemen of some wealth, some position, unlimited
virility, and as much authority as they were
sober enough to arrogate at any given moment of
the night. For ingenuity and impudence, recklessness
of ribald riot, the rparing whalers were modest infants by
comparison with the Team. The Team was beyond the
reach of ordinary laws, partly by reason of its gentility,
partly because it always paid for its breakages. There was
an alderman in it; there were landed proprietors, magis-
trates, public officers, gentlemen, parasites of leisure,
and brewery shareholders —and those were the days
when the hand of the Cascade Brewery was the hand of
God—only more so. When the Team burglariously
entered the market after whisky, it was valorously
led to the attack by the Superintendent of Police of
the day. The merest catalogue of its exploits
would fill many columns. Sic transit. We are very
dull in Hobart to-day. The police are comparatively
incorruptible, and the brewery doesn’t count. Of the
Team, many are dead, some are used up, and some (the
ginger turned to grey) have become ordinary and respect-
able. There’s not spirit enough left in the remnant to
break a window or steal a dog. .
BACK-NUMBERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There, in the corner,
Spare hours to engage,
Lie the back-numbers,
Yellow with age ;
Faded the covers
And thumb-marked each page.
Come, mates, and join me,
Together we’ll go
Seeking the 11 old hands ”
We used to know—
Some are on top still,
And many below.
But tho’ some have faded
Out of our sight—
Tho’ they have passed from us
Out of the fight—
Still they are near in
Back-numbers to-night.
Stories and verses,
Sketches and pars.,
Still they are glowing
As bright as the stars.
Old age but rarely
Their piquancy mars.
Songs of the woolsheds—
The sheep and the shears ;
Rhymes of the waggons
That creak through the years ;
Saturday nights—
And the soul-stirring beers.
So we go back to
The days that have died.
Present-day numbers
Must stand to the side,
While with the old ones
We happily hide.
But fret not, ye numbers,
Because ye are new.
Be not impatient—
Remember that you
In days still ahead will
Be back-numbers too.
H.B.W.
RIVERINA.


About the finest bull ever perpetrated in
the Queensland Assembly came off recently, when
a popular Western legislator told the House that
bushmen, when overcome with old age, “ would
lie down in their blankets and die ivalking about
rather than go to Dunwich.”
There are evidences in the Victorian
Parliament that the Iceberg Government is
losing its grip on the brutal majority which helped
it to rob the public servants, and subsequently
assisted in kicking the railway men. Some of its
most stolid supporters begin to say things and
make it pretty clear that they are tired of acting
as footstools to the high-handed Irvine and Shiels,
and the more candidly insulting Bent. The hole-
and-corner methods of the Iceberg crowd in
dealing with the compensation rights of strikers
were drawn attention to, not by Prendergast or
Maloney, but by the true-blue Conservative
Hickford, and there are now vague rumors in the
Assembly that Sammy Lancaster, the Kyabraiha-
pootra’s pet chick, has a censure motion up his
sleeve. The failure of his Reform Bill has been a
serious blow to Irvine. Even Duffy, who doesn’t
pose as a great constitutional authority, warned
Irvine at. the time that a measure altering the
Constitution required to be all passed by a certain
statutory majority, and that when the Bill, passed
by a statutory majority, was afterwards altered
in almost every part, and the amendments en-
dorsed by a mere casual resolution the situation
was quite illegal. And the obtuse Irvine couldn’t
see it.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Ufe Assurance on the Mutual Principle. J
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
n ° ”I*?' n^ Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine
Directors-TiiOMAS L'ttlbjohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. , Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. : F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.I.A FF A FS S 4
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
«Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis Cough Difficulty of Breathing TTnn.r*«n«Hs Pain of
foSTnTlkvi.S^irrb.C‘“"'T i «>>“, and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effecte a Complete CnS lt“most com-
never been known 1 t- 'h the ,f l l roafc an J f g lvni S strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
Z a Cme is cerlfn 8 ” ‘"‘’P'*' 5 ’ treated with this medfci “>- 1,0 should ™‘hout * as, taken at the beginning, a dose £ geUSy Sioient,
BEWARE OF 1 COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RUL&
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEAIINE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE BOCTOK SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
Mr. Hearne.— "o,.n e «, N.aw.
Dear Sir, I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs.
of London, England, from which you will glean that
jour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, andyou can confidently
refer anybody to me.
i“I h t? rd of y ou r excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above ;
„ be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
rriday, and .R has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a way here.!”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
„ n „„ Q . ... ’ “Dergholm, Victoria.
. ‘ D , ea £, Sir,—i wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other 4 remedies,* without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of cotigHing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of vour
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapid I v successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed bv
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street. Geelong! and
ty-mne other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS.
1 H sed . C , ur ® f °r three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria."
Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only Rave him four doses, and have some of
mg' for another bottle in case I should want it.—l). M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
the medicine yet ; but I am sendin
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
. .. ‘My w ’ fe is 82 years old, and lam 79, and lam glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
VictoHa"" nderfU dCal ° f g °° d ’ lfc havln £ Quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
pleceiijMt m, ~(M™) JOHN g le “" *° M lta h “ “T
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria."
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
Queen“treet! d Memourne!" WaS * disappeared after two dose s—o- J- CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
, “ * lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.-F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W."
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—o. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
valuaWe'medidne^— Warragm,°^Vic?oria?”'^ 3 WUh ° Ut « 1 fi “ d »*obe a most
G. SEYTER, e ptouEke, e< Walel?”^ 8 ° m Th^ reSult Was marvellou9 ’ It eased me right off at onoe.-
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria."
STEE^E^YankoSimng? 1 n“w Suth’wff" 13 W 1 recomniendin S » to everybody.-S.
.. t 1 suff , ered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
TRELAWNE r ?S S e a ye™ a ßive a “ $ freed ° nl ’ a 8 * direCt reSUlt ° f “ y brief tria, —>OHN o.’
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, aim the dootor, to whom I paid seven guineas did not do
b® W j ood »’ * )ufc J heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well H HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.” 4
“ p l® a . se ! end ™ e half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria ” ° “
•
. y °i Ur Bronc hßis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
*°°k made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.” P 1 d
Darlingford, r \Tctoria." ,Ure 1 gotfromyou was ma S ical in its effects.-OHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Gratitude and Appreciatioii
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“ Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody id Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was record-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & 00."
Queensland Testimony*
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS,
„„ “ 69 Queen-st.j Brisbane, Queedsland.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 30
dozen- Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoked Well of:
A gentleman told us to-day thathe had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child beiihg quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
' THOMASON, CHATER & C&,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER'
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Ilearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis.
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack oft
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that 1
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“lam, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.’’—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
„ 011 " Office: h First Floor > Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Add™ wUn not obtainable Locally.
BBAWOH DEPOT-
THE
SMELTING 4 REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works ■ DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, LilflltOCL
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay* Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers* Sweep, etc.
lor all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Managed, Head Oeeice, Damo;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
hut is most easily digested
.and is so delicious that it
IS enjoyed by Infants, Im
vahds, Convalescents and
the aged.
m
The London Medical Record
savs“ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected."
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own."
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


TATTERS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on evex*y Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every <£l, and so on.
NOW OPEN
MELEOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,030 at 10/2.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,000 at 5/1-
MELBOURNE CUP (Special), Flemington, Vic., November 3 (Drawn Morning of Race), 100,000 at 5/1.
NEW ZEALAND CUP, Riccarton, Christchurch, N.Z., November 7, 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORG-E ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in ITOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELL VERY" CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
Our Latest Styles ** -
GRAMOPHONES
ARE FITTED WITH THE
NEW PATENT “SOUND ARM.”
'•V
>"”X
\
*
„ s
IT APPEALS TO TOU
HERE
PURER,
LOUDER and
SWEETER.
One ot the many advantages which this attach-
ment possesses is the ease with which
the born can be turned in any direction.
PRICES.
“ Monarch,” single-spring machine, 22in. Brass Horn, and “ Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” ... ... £ll 15 O
“ Double=Spring Honarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “ Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” £l4 15 O
“Triple-Spring Monarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” £l6 5 0
Other Styles, 30s to £3O- All “Monarch” styles play 7in. or lOin. records.
Agents all over the World.
4
RECORDS
IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Send for Catalogues and
Price Lists.
Australasian Agents
Victoria—
A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co.,
94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Queensland—
Messrs. Heindorfe Bros.,
210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
West Australia—
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.,
Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand—
Messrs. H. Gentles & Co.,
9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Tasmania —
Messrs. Wertheimer & Benjamin,
71 Collins Street, Hobart
™ GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, ltd
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
On the old Crocodile goldfield, near Rock-
hampton (Q.), there is an ancient wooden tomb-
stone inscribed : “ Here lies the body of Thomas
Jones, who died at the age of 82, in the year 1878.
‘God loveth the truthful, but cursed ba the liar.’ ”
What Jones had done to deserve this isn’t re-
corded locally.
The first church of which “ Elijah ”
Dowie, of Zion City and Chicago, ever had
charge is a diminutive little Congregational gospel
shop at Alma Plains, in what South Australians
call “the middle North.” Elijah during past
years has prospered much more than his old chapel
has done.
They have been reminiscing about the late
“ Bully ” Hayes, of pious memory, in Maoriland.
Thus one correspondent, who met him in ’64 or
’65
He was a very big man, 6ft. 3in. or 6ft. 4in., I should
say, and broad in proportion. He presented a striking
appearance in a big soft black felt hat, big shirt-front,
with jet studs, black tie, and low collar. He also wore
a “ square mainsail” frock-coat down to his knees, black
trousers, black kid gloves, and a pair of No. 14 boots.
I don’t know whether he looked like a reformed pirate or
a missionary who had done well dealing in native land.
All this mourning was in honor of the eighth or tenth
Mrs. Hayes whom he had recently lost, with a schooner
called, I think, the Black Diamond. It was supposed that
whenever the Mrs. Hayes of the period became tedious,
she went to sea with her husband and fell overboard.
named Bishop and Parsonage.
Literature in Australia suffered a loss when
Lady Hopetoun left. Said that, if she didn’t get
™ ta^ Lond u° n Pink ’Us, sharp
every mail day, she used to nearly lift the roof off
Melbourne Government House,
. ~ , , , , , . , ,
A Melbourne accountant, lately registered
as a trustee of insolvent estates, bears the bap-
tismal name of “ Willie.’’ Any sort of adult
Willie is a painful thing, but when he’s an
accountant—O, dear! He reminds one of the
stout, grey-haired lady who was christened Birdie
or Blossom.
Augtra l ian Chief Justice Griffith finds a
food deal of his relaxation from law in reading
Italian / £?. 1 didn t know anything of the language
when he left the University; but an ex-Gover-
nor fired him with the desire to read
Dante in the original, and while he waited for
briefs Griffith waded into text-books, and pre-
sently appeared as a translator.
am Crane, who in the dim past used
to be S.M. at Sydney Central Police Court, is the
oldest surviving pensioner on N.S. W. Superannua-
.• 1 . •
? Un< l ’ ( ie ( ias bocm drawing something over
a day tor just upon 20 years. Quite a number
of old magistrates are still above ground and draw-
ing a trifle—among them “Rolf Bold re wood ”
Browne, whose allowance, however, runs to Some-
thing under £ 4 a wee k. Of all retired officers
. ® n q., , IQno , ,
who were on the long list on Dec. 31st, 1902, late
Deputy P.M.G. Lambton draws most ; he is the
only man who gets more than £6OO a year.
Dr. Deeper, the great boss of Melbourne
Trinity College, once caught his most frisky
medical student dangling the house skeleton
from the top storey for the amusement of the pub-
lic below. The grand old man was shocked, and
made two remarks. One, in a deep bass voice,
was: “What do you mean, sir, by taking such
liberties with what was once the abode of an
immortal soul ? ” The other, in a still more
terrible tone, was: “And aren’t you aware,
Fooler, that those bones cost five pounds ? ”
Dr. Torr, the third member of the Com-
mission which dealt with the charges against Ade-
laide’s scientific coroner, Ramsay Smith, and
found them unsustained, signed himself “M. A.,
B.C.L. (Oxon.), B.A. (Cantab.), LL.D. (Trin.
Coll., Dub.), Barrister-at-Law (Inner Temple).”
And with all that Torr has been simply running a
small denominational school which was a little
while back abandoned. Torr was teaching a coun-
try State school when he contracted the ailment
which makes him want to write the alphabet after
his name, and he has since spent so much of his
life attending to this craving that he has had little
time for anything else.
The oldest Victorian ex-Minister is John
Dennistoun Wood, now an alderman of Dennis-
toun, Tasmania, and threatening to enter the Fly-
speck’s Parliament. Mr. Wood, who is a barrister,
and has recently published a volume of verse, is a
Tasmanian, born in 1831. He was Solicitor-
General in O’Shanassy’s first Ministry (the second
under Responsible Government) 1857. In the
Nicholson Ministry (1859) he was Attorney-
General; in the third O’Shanassy Ministry (1861-
*63) he was Minister'for; Justice (the fegttmrte*
for Justice in Austraha-before that time
was little justice and much flogging). run
up is Mr. Bayles, the relic of the bladen Mmist y
F. R. Chapman, who has just been
appointed a Judge of Maoriland Supreme Court,
j 3 54 years of age, and makes the third Dunedin
lawyer on the Bench, Stout and Denniston being
the other two. He is a very solid lawyer with a
head crammed full of all sorts of strange know
ledge ; but he was a trifle too slow and heavy to be a
vei " successful advocate. He has a slouching gait,
an( j f or years has been about the worst dressed
barrister in M.L. He had an unfortunate habit
j n COU rt of hitching ud his trousers as though he
did not wear suspenlers and was in fear of his
garmen t a dropping off. His appointment is
regarded as one of the best that Seddon has made,
.
Ebenezer Ward, of S.A., long ago in-
formed his friends that he was writing a book of
reminiscences, hut said book has not yet appeared,
It is still anxiously expected, for Wards reminis
cences should he interesting. _ The ancient
Honorable has been actor, journalist, sailor, poli-
tician, and jockey—amateur, of course. In the
jockey capacity he was thought to have
pulled a favorite once—at least the crowd
reckoned so ; and it swarmed over the
fence with sticks. A man with a much smaller
nose than Ward’s would have smelt danger, and
he drove his horse over a 6ft. fence and left
the multitude blaspheming in the rear. For a
man named Ebenezer, he was a superb rider in
those days.


AMMUNITION
Can always be depended upon for being sure fire,
regular, and clean. It is sold by the principal
ironmongers throughout Australasia.
SPECIFY U.M.C.
AMMUNITION
and ACCEPT NO OTHER.
■
<4
Sv
felt*
,ll«<
SK
m
&
1
>
Cv
/
&
M
'» . •»*v
PEARS
The Good Husband.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SAID unto a dame that washed,
As with the suds she played :
11 Oh, tell me of the man you love—
If wild he is or staid ? ”
She wept. “ The very ground I trod
My husband did adore ! ”
(She was a blear-eyed dame and large,
And dank, black garments wore.)
“ He never let me soil my hands;
I was his queen ! ” she said.
“Oh ! tell me where he is ? * quoth I.
“ I can’t, mum, for he’s dead ! *’
I went unto a dame that cooked
In homes for daily hire ;
She told me how her husband rose
Each morn to light the fire ;
And how in sinful primrose paths
He never turned aside,
Because her smile (her smile was vast)
Was his sole joy and pride.
“ Where is that paragon ? To him
Our sex’s thanks be given,”
I cried. She wept (they always weep)—
“ Oh ! mum, he’s gone to Heaven ! ”
Where’er I go, howe’er I seek,
Whatever I contrive,
The husband who is good and kind
I’ve never found alive ;
For he who lives a virtuous life,
And shuns the roysterer’s feast,
Has got into a painful way
Of being quite deceased.
The man who comes home straight to tea
Is aye with Abraham bunked;
The spouse who lights the fire I find
Invariably defunct.
O.C.
Mrs. Meegan's Mystery.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mrs. Meegan was crying softly when I went into
her shop to buy some tobacco. She wiped her
eyes quickly, and a spot of red flamed in her faded
cheek. She was as angry at being caught in tears
as if she had been a man.
“ This comes of being a woman,” she said, with
a grim little laugh. “Never mind,” I observed
by way of consolation ; “ good women when they
die become men.” “ I would rather remain dead,”
she remarked drily.
Mrs. Meegan’s shop was the only lively place in
the drowsy old township of Quantook. You heard
all the gossip there, all the yarns, all the latest
local scandals—they were poor little anmraic
scandals for the most part, but they were better
than none. Mrs. Meegan was also the confidant
of all the single young women in the village—with
the exception, perhaps, of the daughters of the
P.M. a.nd the C.P.S. and the banker. She gave
good advice to the girls, and grim admonition to
the young men, who went in fear of her, as well
they might. There was a story about how a dashing
young softgoodsman came from Sydney to take a
billet in the leading store in Quantook, and com-
menced to make love to one of her flock, and how
sbeasked him if his intentions were honorable.
When he replied that they were, she, acting upon
information received, managed to have business to
no in Sydney, and while there hunted up his wife
and told a tale to that deluded lady which had the
effect of sending the dashing young softgoods-
man back to where he came from by next coach.
She was a tall, somewhat gaunt person, with a
deeply lined forehead and a face that would have
been harsh but for the humorous mouth —which
could set like a trap at times, all the same—and
twinkling blue eyes. She had a ready jest for
everybody who called upon her, and a stock of
little stones that would have delighted Queen
Elizabeth, if what we read of that roval virgin is
true. The matrons of the township held aloof
from her for some reason or other. Perhaps it
was because she never went to church. Somebody
informed a zealous young curate of this deplorable
fact (he had lately come to Quantook), and he
made a call upon her with a view to conversation.
She carefully selected from her stock of stories
one of the best, and told it for his entertainment.
He never called upon her again, nor could any-
body induce him to repeat the story. But Mrs.
Meegan told it to me, and it was very funny—too
funny for publication. There was a mystery
about her—which was probably no mystery at all
to the matrons aforesaid. I learnt' that it had
something to do with Mr. Meegan. None of my
acquaintances in the place had ever seen this
gentleman in the flesh. It appeared that Mrs.
Meegan had arrived in Quantook some years
before in a covered cart, which she drove herself.
A female servant of mature age sat beside her on
the front seat. And something closely wrapped
up, but bearing a dim resemblance to the human
shape, was taken out of the cart when they came
to where they—or, at anyrate, two of them—were
now living. My informants had a dark suspicion
that Mr. Meegan—if it was really Mr. Meegan
that was taken out of the cart—was a corpse, and
that Mrs. Meegan took him, or rather it, around
with her wherever she went. They added that,
in their opinion, she kept him—or, rather, i *—
embalmed in the room behind the shop, because
nobody had ever been allowed to go in there.
Then a day came when I learnt all about the
Mystery. It was a sorry affair, from one point of
view.
“Go inside,” said Mrs. Meegan, “he wants to
see you.”
She lifted up the flap of the counter, and I
passed through and opened the door, which I had
never seen opened before. The room was large,
and low of ceiling. One end of it was filled with
books—shelves over shelves of them. Mostly
Prench, as I noticed later on; but there was a
good proportion of books in English dealing with
travel and adventure. In an armchair by the
table, the lower part of his body wrapped in a
rug, sat a man with a face like the face of Gehazi.
An etiolated face, white and bloodless, and in that
face were set two restless, blue, glittering eyes,
bright as icicles. His hands were on the table-
lie had been playing cards with himself—and I
observed that the fingers were long and finely-
tapered with an upward feminine curve. The
man was an artist by nature—that much was
clear. His features were delicate and aristocratic,
but extravagantly stern in repose. He gave me
the impression of a man who, if circumstances
had been in his favor, might have been an elegant
pirate—a gallant and courtly buccaneer who
would kiss the hand of a lady as he assisted her to
walk the plank. And yet there was an inde*
scribable unreality about him —a suggestion of a
figure that had walked out of a picture.
“Glad to see you,” he said. “ Very thoughtful
of the wife to send you in. Devilish thoughtful;
Who are you 1 ”
I mentioned my name modestly.
“Ah,” he said, “ the new editor of the Quan-
took Times. It wanted one badly. I hope you’ll
do better than the last editor.”
“What happened to him?” I inquired with
some uneasiness. I had not been long in the
position and was somewhat doubtful about the
temper of my employer.
“It was an amusing affair,”said Mr. Meegan.
“He went out one day with his Boss —your Boss
—and they got drunk in company. Then they
quarrelled and fought, and the Boss got the worst
of the battle. Next day the Editor was sacked,
and wandered out into the bush where somebody
saw him pacing around, three parts naked and
entirely crazy. Result of the local liquor. My
wife sent him out some clothes and food, and some
other people in the town paid his fare to. Sydney. *
We began to talk about books, and I soon dis-
covered that he had read everything I had ever
heard of and a great deal more. He had a fine
literary palate, but his taste was singularly con-
tracted. The great masters—Homer, and Virgil,
and Dante, and Milton and Shakspeare—he
frankly ignored. They were wonderful geniuses,
no doubt, but he neither liked nor understood
them.
“I don’t want gallons of wine to drink, even if
it were the finest Falernian,” he said. “Give
me an exquisite liqueur, which contains, in a glass
like a thimble, the fire and the bouquet of a whole
vintage. Give me Baudelaire, Verlaine, Gautier
—gem-cutters, jewellers, not quarrymen or brutal
pyramid-builders.” He glanced at his bookcase.
“ I have them all there. You could never under-
stand what comfort I have found in reading them
over and over again in the dark days of winter,
here in this dungeon.” He spoke of “Made-
moiselle de Maupin,” and the verses of Ver-
laine, as a pious Christian might speak of
“The Imitation of Christ” or the “Confes-
sions of St. Augustine.” Possibly they meant
as much to him as the latter would to the pious
Christian. It was curious, but then everything
in connection with the man was curious. It was
the first time I had ever met a being of this
type, and his conversation fascinated me. His
knowledge of the world—the world of aristocracy
and fashion, of which I knew nothing—appeared
to be marvellous. But he did not seem to be
freatly interested in reminiscences of the past.
t was only when he talked of gambling that he
became really eloquent. Then his faded blue
eyes sparkled, and his white hands fluttered nerr
vously over the table.
“ Have you ever been at Monaco, or Homburg,
or Baden ? No ? Then you have the greatest
pleasure the world can offer in store for you. You
remember what dear old Calverley says—
O Konigswinter, dreadful Konigswinter,
Burial-place of all I loved so well,
Never could the most extensive Printer
Print a tale as dark as thou couldst tell.
Substitute Monte Carlo for Konigswinter and you
have my story. Ah, the good days I have had !
Let us drink to their memory.”
He took a bottle from a sideboard behind him
and filled two liqueur-glasses.
“ Chartreuse,” I said, inhaling the aroma.
“ Yes ! Green Chartreuse, the king of liqueurs.
I don’t drink much, but I like to drink well.”
I had to go about my business, and said good-
bye. He asked me to come again soon r and we
shook hands. His hand was as cold as the hand
of a corpse. When I found myself once more in
the sunlight I felt as though I had come out of a
tomb, in which I had been drinking with the dead.
* * * *
The next time I called I found Mr. Meegan
strumming on a guitar. He laid the instrument
gently down upon the table. “One of the few
consolations of a recluse,” he observed with a faint
sigh. Then, apropos of some book the name of
which I have forgotten, he began to talk of travel
and adventure, with the zest of a boy. He was
especially interested in the less-known countries
of the earth—Thibet in particular.
“I should have been an explorer,” said this
strange creature. “I have been over most of the
known world in my time, but it is the unknown
that has the chief charm for me. Still I can read,
and I have kept au courant with geographical dis-
covery. At the same time—you remember
Xavier de Maistre’s ‘Voyage Autour de ma
Chambre?’ Well, that will give you an idea of.
me. Here am I cribbed, cabined, and confined
in a little room in a paltry little bush town, and
with two accursed legs that might as well be in
the grave, while I yearn to climb the. Himalayas
and breathe the air that the free Tartar breathes
upon the Roof of the World.”
He finished with tears in his eyes.
I thought, as I looked at him, that, with better
luck, Meegan of Quantook might have been a
great man.
His mood changed suddenly.
“ I should have been a pirate,” he exclaimed, —
“ none of your brutal Blackbeards, or Captain
Kidds, but a gentlemanly marine Claude Duval. ”
He took up the guitar and touched the strings
lightly. “Listen to a song of the Jolly Roger,”
he said, and, in a sweet, though somewhat faded,
tenor, sang this curious ditty :
None of your greasy whalers, lads,
Or strait-laced frigates for me—
But a low black hull and a rakish rig,
And a pirate that sails the sea.
Not a soul on board but a daring horde,
With a swivel-gun at the stern,
And a letter of marque from Beelzebub
To pillage, and sink, and burn.
Ho ! Ho ! The mainsail flaps, my men,
I feel the gale on my cheek —
fl’e’re afloat, we’re afloat on the devil’s own cruise,
With the jolly black Flag at our peak.
And merry it is upon the deck,
All in the calm moonshine,
With riot and revel to please the devil
And women, and cards, and wine.
“ There’s more of it, but that’s enough. I forget
where I heard it first. Callao or some other den,
no doubt.”
Before I left he showed me a beautifully-bound
book of MS. poems, written in a small, delicate
hand, and with the initial letter at the beginning
of each poem daintily illuminated. The verses
themselves were graceful, but weak—mere ghosts
of stillborn poems. “ I have never shown them
to anybody else but my wife,” said the author,
“and she does not appreciate them. She’s a
good woman, but she doesn’t understand me.”
* * * *
Mrs. Meegan stopped me once as I was passing
through the shop. There was a queer twinkle in
her eye, and the suggestion of a smile at the
corners of her mouth.
“Did you find Mr. Meegan good company?”
she said.
“Excellent,” I replied. “He seems to have
been everywhere and to have seen everything.”
“Yes, he has been a famous traveller,” she
remarked, still with the twinkle in her eye. “ Hid
he also tell you what a desperate gambler he had
been?”
“ He just hinted at it,” I replied, cautiously.
Mrs. Meegan’s lips twitched for a moment; then
she laughed outright.
“Poor Mortimer,” she said. “I am so glad
you came to see him. He refused to see anybody
till you chanced along. I was beginning to think
that his imagination was deserting him. But it
seems to be as bright as ever. All that talk
about his travels and his gambling is invention.
He never risked more than half-a-crown in his life
—if he ever risked that much. As quiet and as
sensible a man he was as you would wish to meet
—he was a clerk in a drapery store —until he had
the paralytic stroke. Then he took to reading
poetry and novels and books of adventure until
they turned his head (was I listening to Don
Quixote’s housekeeper ?). And he began to think
he was a great traveller, and a great rake, and
a great poet himself, all in one. But I have
managed to keep a roof over our heads, and I
don’t care so long as he is happy. You see he is
the only child I have.”
There was a slight break in the strong voice as
she finished.
VIOTOR J. DALEY.
“ Humanity ” writes re Kanaka mortality :
If these unfortunate islanders received ordinary human
care when sick, the annual heavy death-rate would be
reduced by half. In case of illness, there is, as a rule, no
trained nursing, and no medical attendance until the last
moment (and then only to obtain a certificate of death
and avoid unpleasant investigation). Where on these
sugar areas, large or small, can be found any building
that the wildest imagination would term an hospital?
And where the necessary equipment and furnishings ?
Medicine is usually dispensed by the cook, ganger or
ploughman. The treatment of a sick Kanaka depends
much upon his commercial value to the owner, and that
depends largely on how much of his term of service is
unexpired. A Kanaka whose term is nearly run out is
hardly worth a dose of salts.
The Birth Of a Briton.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Yes, lam Prussian,” said Charley. “But
dhese planky Ghermans make me seeck.
“ 1 * vork for
dher Government. lam a sheep’s garpenter,
undt I go to dher head garpenter ofver dher
Shinamens undt dher niggers. Yell, ven I gets
dhere, I go to dher boss, or dher magistrade, or I
**
say > Here 1S dhree suits of uniform, undt you
must always dher planky dhings vear. You haf
forty Shinamans to do dher vork, undt you must
zuperintend.’ Ven I say, ‘How dher hell gan I
• . , , 01 . 9 , TT
zu Permtend vorty Shinamans?’ Undt he say,
‘ valk apoudt, valk apoudt.’
“ So I puts on dher glose—dey haf a tam high,
tight gollar—undt py-undt-pye I see a Shina-
mans vork all wrong. So I tage off dher goat
undt I tages dher saw, undt I show him now.
Ven dher boss he game along a vite umprella mit,
undt he sing oudt like dher deffil, ‘Vyderhell
did you gome for to go for to do dot ? Undt I
tol’ you to zuperintend, undt here I vind you
vork like a planky Shinamans.’ Ven all dher
tam Shinamans laff like pilge-rats sqeekin’, undt,
py chipes, I gets my madtness; I schling down
dher saw, undt I say to dher boss, I say, “ Looka-
here, you gan go to hell schoost as mooch as you
like. ’ Dhen Igo und I keeck life Shinamans ;py
schmiddereens, I vhas madt! Dher boss, he shut
, lrnnrfi ll fl he siv ‘ Vnn half dher nlankv
umprella undt he say, Y ouhall dher planky
sag, mine friendt; undt I say Dom dher sag.
, When he get wild undt say, ‘At tweluf
o’glock you gome to dher office undt I gif you
dher proper nodice.’ But I goes undt gets a poat,
un d w hen tweluf o’glock game, Herr Gott !I am
twendv miles nvav allrettv TTndf vhen T o-oes
twena J ™ lles ava y aiiretty. Undt vhen 1 goes
to Tamarai I gets my naturalization,
‘No more 1 am planky Ghermans. No ! by
hell! I poy ov the pulldog preed now.”
British PAPUA.
MACHETE.


Hundreds of Aching Backs.
J
a
Yes; thousands of them here in Sydney.
In offices, in workshops, in homes—everywhere they may he found.
But they should not be aching— Nature never intended them to ache. And
they wouldn’t ache if it were not for the delicate nature of those filters of the
blood—the kidneys.
You know that when a filter gets clogged up there’s going to be serious
trouble if it isn’t cleaned out. It’s exactly the same with the kidneys—they
become clogged and disordered through cold, overwork, strain, or faulty living—
the poisons they ought to take out of the blood are left and carried all round the
system. Backaches and Kidney Trouble follow as surely as night follows day.
But there’s a cure—a perfectly safe, sure, and proved cure—
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
They have been curing people in Sydney for years, curing every form of
Kidney Trouble—yes, even down to the last stages of Bright’s Disease and
Diabetes. They will cure you, too.
This claim is backed up by
SYDNEY PROOF
Mr. Jaides Hudson, 10 Lennox-street, Newtown, this
city, saysl work in the Bondi sewer. There is a
constant drip-drip there, and when working it mostly
happens that one is _wet through. Some parts are better
than others, but while working in the shafts one is con-
tinually damp, and this affected my health. My trouble
came with a bad cold in my kidneys, which caused
terrible pains in the back. I did my work, but it was
most fearful torture for me to do so, as you can well
understand. I was exceedingly bad with these pains
when I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills advertised,
and it struck me by the name of the remedy that it
should be good for my complaint. I procured a box, and
they cured me in fairly quick time. I could not take
them constantly, being afraid to use them while working
in the wet sewer, but I managed to take two doses a
week. The nature of my work caused me to have slight
returns of the pains, but I take a dose of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, which never fails to cure me. lam
never without them in the house.”
Mr. J. Ca nei on,, 29 , T Balmain-road, Leichhardt, this
city, says : —‘‘For a few years I have been trying to get
the upper hand of kidney trouble, but all my efforts were
futile until I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I
used to have pains in the back, and these were so bad I
had to lie about pretty well helpless, which will give you
a better idea of the serious condition I was in than any
other illustration, I had begun to imagine that it was
not in the power of medicine to bring me relief, when I
got a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This
remedy began to do that which so many had failed to do.
A few doses gave tne an immense amount of relief, and in
a.little while cured me completely of pains in the back,
and put my kidneys in perfect order. I can give these
pills a first rate recommendation ; I know others who
have been cured by their use.”
Mr. Mark Tierney, 6 Darling-street, Glebe, states :
“ In reference to the statement made by me four years
ago, regarding my cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
I am glad to inform you that I am still well, and have
been ever since. I am only too pleased to let anybody
know about this medicine.”
The statement referred to is as follows :—“For a con-
siderable time, I’ve been subject to severe pain across
the small of my back; at times it extended down the
loins. I was always using liniments, but can’t speak
much of the result. I could not rest comfortably at
night, thus had insufficient sleep. I saw Doan’s Back,
ache Kidney Pills advertised, and obtained a box. The
first few doses eased my pains, and, after taking a course
I was thoroughly cured.”
. For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receint
of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney. P
BUT
SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
The Kookaburra.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the topmost limb of the tallest gum
That overlooks the earth,
Where the crash of war is a droning hum,
Where rage and toil and mirth
Alike appear through the distance dim
Like drifting specks of chaff,
From the farthest end of the topmost limb
Comes the kookaburra’s laugh.
He sat on his perch through the ages long
When dull grey Chaos reigned ;
God paused at the sound of his joyful song
As the first faint morning waned.
As He turned His hand to again devote
To His wondrous handicraft,
The kookaburra swelled his throat
And laughed, and laughed, and laughed.
He had roared when the mad-drunk comets’ play
The stern, staid stars did shock ;
He was there when they dashed through the Milky
Way
And ran through the skies amok ;
To Space were their victims reckless cast,
To die in a boiling hiss ;
But never in all the ages past
Had he met a joke like this.
That God should stir from His home sublime
To toil on a planet lone
Was a thing that never the tales of Time
With their humor strange had known ;
For it seemed that a fatuous ordinance
God now in His anger made,
That the ballet weird of the planets’ dance
Should end in a harlequinade.
A smile was hovering round his beak
As to each new move he warmed ;
’Twas a joyous, abandoned, mirthful week
As the Earth was slowly formed.
But faded sudden that smile away,
And with open mouth he gaped
At the Maker with a junk of clay
That He squeezed and thumped and shaped.
He watched Him fashion a figure strange,
Then reeled with a shocked surprise,
As he saw the clay, with a sudden change,
Sit up and rub its eyes.
Then he laughed again at its puny pride
As it strode and pranced and raved,
And he pressed his wing to his aching side
At the way that thing behaved.
The antics wild of that figure new
Enlivened that first bright day,
Till it fell asleep as the darkness grew
And the Maker passed that way ;
For He stole a rib from the figure prone
To be turned to flesh and blood.
And a funnier thing was made of bone
Than the one that was,made of mud.
As each strange act of that pair appeared,
He shook with a mighty laugh ;
So wide did his mouth extend, he feared
That his head would split in half ;
And the pranks and the sloth and the frenzied zeal
That their children e’er evince
Started him off on an endless peal
That has lasted ever since.
On the topmost limb of the tallest gum
That overlooks the world,
Where through the air in a frothy scum
The deeds of man are hurled,
And the words of the world come murmuring then
As of ceaseless phonographs,
He watches the deeds of the gods and men
And laughs, and laughs, and laughs.
vio.
H.G.
Crows!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ever tasted crow?” said the old man as he
took a mouthful of damper. A crowd of the
black ghouls were cawing on the trees around.
“ No ; any good ? ” asked Lanky Jim.
“Better’n nought ; but yer have to catch ’em
young ; no good otherwise.”
“Young?—how d’yer know when they are
young? ” queried young Slogger as he tipped the
sugar-bag into his pannikin.
“ By their teeth, of course. Ever eat goanna ? ”
and the old man refilled his mouth. Slogger felt
crushed, and looked it.
“Goanna?—yes, heaps of times ; prefer snake,
though,” Jim answered through a mouthful. He
wasn’t telling the truth, but that didn’t matter.
The crows continued their din, heedless of the
campers. The midday meal finished, the man
with sore eyes shouldered his bluey, gave brief
thanks for his tucker, expressed satisfaction at
the chance to have a pitch, then, with the usual
“So-long!” he quitted the road and took a
short cut through the scrub.
* * * *
Next morning, at dawn, the campers were on
the move—and the crows still cawed, but their
energies were concentrated on one spot towards
the range. There also the campers’ footsteps were
directed. Here they found the old stranger who
had eaten crow, speechless, and evidently dying.
“Go for the doctor or the police—quick
Lanky Jim roared.
Slogger, a callow cornstalk, starting on the'
wallaby for the first trip—they had barely started,
and weren t out of civilisation yet—dropped
his.swag and made for the road, thence to Hide-
ville. Jim took the sick man’s hat and replaced
it on his bald head the crows cawed disapprov-
ingly at his action. Then he tried to get the
sufferer to speak, as he sat him up, but without
success.
“Poisoned?” he asked. “Heart-trouble?
Bver had these attacks before ? ” but the eyes
only closed, and the stranger’s head sank on his
bluey.
Then Jim broke a bough, and laid it handy—
he feared the worst—and made for the oreek.
When he returned with his billycock full of water,
the man who had eaten crow was dead, his blank
eyes gazing in the direction of the ghouls that
covered a dead tree like a black pall. Lanky Jim
covered the corpse with a sapling and some
bushes, and followed in his mate’s footsteps.
* * * *
When the campers returned with the police
and helpers from Hideville, they found the crow
tribe fighting and squawking over the remains of
the dead man, and the bushes scattered in all
directions. Then Trooper Clutcher felt sick in his
stomach, and to relieve his feelings discharged the
barrels of his regulation weapon in quick suc-
cession into the cawing mass above him. One
fluttered to the ground wounded, and Slogger,
the unsophisticated, seized it!
* • * »
“Teeth !” said Slogger an hour later, when
they had carried their burden to the stable of
Hideville’s only pub. ; “ the black wretches only
wear their teeth when they sit down to meals 1 ”
“Did yez have enn.y acquaintance wid the
man ? ” queried constable Clutcher, after he had
reloaded his revolver and made some entries in his
note-book.
“ Didn’t know the chap from a crow,” said Jim,
‘ and he’s got all he deserved, for he said he’d
eaten the cannibals—young ’tins ! ”
Then the police officer started ; a suspicion had
struck him.
* * * *
“No !” the doctor said, “no signs of violence
apart from crow injuries. No poison to be traced
—died from sunstroke. Why ?
“ Because that chap appears to hold a brief for
the crows, and says it served him right.’’ Then
an ominous caw was heard outside.
“Bury the remains!” the doctor said, as he
turned to get a drink. “ Here’s the certificate ! ”
* * * *
The only mourners at the Hideville cemetery,
when the mortal remains of the stranger were
deposited in the earth, were Lanky Jim and the
callow Slogger. But a crow sat on each of the
score of tombstones, cawing its last disrespects
to the unknown dead.
Vto.
RITA S.
“ Kodak ” on the beach picnicker :
During the perfect days of spring the four or five miles
of beach right from Port Melbourne to the Red Bluff (St.
Hilda) are practically deserted. Only when the blazing
days of summer drive the seaside residents into darkened
houses to read and doze does the perspiring inland family
arrive to undress itself and devour squashy bananas,
biscuits and sand by the low-spirited sea. Australian
holiday-makers seem to labor under some remarkable
delusions with regard to the ancient custom of taking
food away to a distance and there eating it under uncom-
fortable circumstances. The average Australian scorns
to perform the rite if it only entails the ordinary discom-
forts of camping out. He must have the sun so hot that
the sand scorches him when he sits down, and the north
wind must whirl the sand into his eyes and hair and into
the paper bags that hold the food, so that he has to wipe
everything before he eats it. Finally, he insists upon
partially undressing himself, in full view of the public,
and paddling in the shallow water, whilst his completely
undressed offspring career madly up and down the beach.
This tendency of the beach picnicker to cast his gar-
ments from him directly he catches sight of the sea
wouldn’t be so alarming if he would only go and wet
himself in it. But he won’t—he just undresses himself
and runs up and down alongside it.
Billy and the Eagle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were camped on the Macinfcyre River, about
12 miles above Bogabilla, and I noticed that two
black eagles had a nest, with two young ones, in a
large coolabah tree about 10 chains from. our
camp. They evidently lived on rabbits and birds,
for I saw any quantity of bones and feathers on
the ground beneath their nest.
We had a big tom-cat in camp. We called him
Billy. He was yellow, and was always looking
for fight. One Sunday evening Billy started to
help himself to something on the cook’s table, and
the cook let fly a plate at his head, but missed
him William, the cat, made off along the river
in quick time, but he had not gone far when one
of the eagles came down with a rush, caught him
by the back of the neck, and had him off the
ground before he knew what was the matter. The
eagle started for his nest, and Billy started to
shout and claw the air. After a struggle the
eagle managed to land Billy in the nest all right.
The cook and I sat down on a log and watched
the performance. We weren’t a bit anxious about
Billy Evidently the eagle had taken him for a
rabbit, and we felt convinced that he had made a
bad mistake. The nest was about 4ft. in diameter,
made of dry sticks (about a cartload) thrown
together anyhow, so the eagle was a property-
holder of some magnitude, and a fowl with a stake
in the country. This made him arrogant. '
I think the eagle must have given Billy an extra
squeeze just before landing him in the nest, for he
was no sooner on his feet than he started to
throw things about. In a jiffy the two young
eagles went overboard, and landed on the ground
with a loud bump. Part of the nest came down
with them. You should have seen the smoke and
dust fly ; the air up above was filled with screams,
sticks and feathers. When the smoke cleared
away there was no nest left, only the bare limb of
a tree, on which the eagle and Billy (with his tail
cocked) were going for all they were worth. All
at once they overbalanced and came down a fear-
ful fall, Billy being underneath, I think that
saved the eagle, for when the cook and I got over
to them Billy had fainted, and the eagle was
trying to Walk backwards away from him, and
was saying something in a thick voice about
destruction of property, and calling Billy a
Socialist.
The cook carried Billy over to the camp, and I
went and got a drink of cold tea for the eagle,
which seemed to revive him very much. I
examined his wings ; they weren’t broken, so I
knew he would be able to fly after a rest. He
went away in about an hour afterwards, and I
never saw him again.
Billy stopped in camp for about a week after
the fight, but wouldn’t make friends with any-
body. One morning, he crossed the river on a
log, and went into Queensland with his tail up,
and disappeared in the mUlga scrub. We were
all sorry to lose Billy, although he wasn’t a bit
sociable since the fight. I fancy he must have
seen me giving the eagle the cold tea, and got
narked.
N.S.W,
BORER.


the Time
Terrible Feeling of Exhaustion. Unfit for Business.
Effects of Hot Seasons. All Easily Removed.
JBl
Mrs. C. McDonald, of Northcote,
Victoria, Australia, sends us her
photograph and says:
“I was a great sufferer from some
of the most terrible forms of indiges-
tion. I was all tired out from morn-
ing until night. My languor made me
unfit for work or business of any
kind, and I was about ready to give up
discouraged. My liver was all out of
order, and this made me suffer from
constipation and biliousness. Two
remedies completely cured me. I took
Ayer’s Pills to act on my liver and
keep my bowels in good condition,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to purify my
blood, strengthen my nerves, and put
my digestive organs in a healthy
state.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is of great help to almost every one in this debilitating
climate. It prevents exhaustion, keeps the nervous system in good order,
and takes away all that tired feeling. Don’t wait until you are down sick.
It’s much wiser and easier to prevent sickness. When the stomach fails,
sickness comes very easy. Profit by Mrs. McDonald’s experience and put your
digestive organs in a healthy state.
We must caution you against imitation Sarsaparillas. Be sure you get
“ Ayer’s.” There’s no risk to run with this old, reliable medicine.
AYER’S i arsaparilla
The Oldest, Surest, Strongest, and Best Sarsaparilla
Ayers Pills act on the liver and keep the bowels in good condition.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEB & CO., Lowell, Mass., XT. S. A.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apioi and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.* *
James Martin & Go.
161 CLARENCE ST.
Near King St.
SYDNEY
m
WE ARE PREPARED TO
ILLUMINATE ANY PLACE,
ANY TIME, ANYWHERE, with
ACETYLENE GAS.
Martin’s Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas Generator.
ALL SIZES, from 5 to 1000 LIGHTS.
OVER 500 IN DAILY USE. Send for our “ No. 66
Acetylene Gas Catalogue.”
CARBIDE OF CALCIUH at the BEST PRICES.
When you want MOTIVE POWER it will
pay you to investigate the merits of
MARTIW ’S
Nonpareil Oil Engine
BURNS ORDINARY KEROSENE.
FULL SPEED AT A MOMENT’S NOTICE.
Strong, Safe, Cheap, Economical, “©a
ALL SIZES, both HORIZONTAL and PORTABLE.
US’ Send for Illustrated Descriptive Circular.
SPEAKING FIGURES.
56 PILLS in a Box for 1/I|-
A SALE OF OVER 6,000,000
Boxes per annum.
56 YEARS of EVER-GROWING
demands.
Figures, like actions, often speak louder than words.
The figures here given refer to
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
and without any further elaboration
they should convince every thinking:
man and woman of the fact that this
remedy must be of EXTRAORDINARY MERIT.
FIRSTLY: 56 Pills in a box for 1/1 i must signify a large quantity
of a good thing at a low price.
SECONDLY: A Sale of over 6,000,000 boxes per annum must mean
that the “good thing” is thoroughly appreciated by
the world at large.
THIRDLY: 56 years of ever-growing popularity must indicate
an expression of public confidence and approval
such as can never be excelled.
That BEECHAM’S PILLS are considered the most
efficacious medicine for Liver and Bilious Disorders, Con-
stipation, Sick Headache, Impaired Digestion, Loss of
Nervous Energy, and threatened failure of the general
health, the figures above quoted are unerring and un-
questionable testimony.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEEGHAM, St. HELENS, Lancashire, and
sold everywhere in Boxes, price 1/1% (56 Pills), and 2/9 (168 Pills).
KNORR’S
Ready
Made
Dried-
dnos V3d
It is . .
Known
as the
Best..
*■
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALITY.
NliflWO
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.E.C.S.E,
L.F.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Bkin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCER ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
th This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“ Press Extracts ” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: lO to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily. m
| “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, B^ porteri ,
island.
At Poverty Point.
( Continued).
Died the other week Sophie Larkin, longtime a popular
old woman actress on the London stage. Gray-haired
Sophie was a member of the famous Bancroft Co., when
Robertson wrote his tea-cup-and-saucer comedies, and
subsequently she played many parts at the Vaudeville
and Globe under the managements of Thom and James,
and H. J. Montague. In her time she could adapt
herself equally well to the antique comic or modern
humorous style of character. No comedy was too old or
too new for Sophie Larkin to seem natural and happy in
her part. Presumably she was a young artist once, but
nobody ever spoke of her as having been a charming
heroine in the past, like the late Miss Romer and other
veterans who had outlived their Juliet and Desdemona
days.
“ E.” : “ ‘Resurrection ’ is not ' The Resurrection,’ and
has no reference to any Biblical event, though inculcating
a great ethical lesson.”— Managerial announcement. It
®hould be added that Harry Bataille and Mick Morton’s
Resurrection ” has no relationship to the ‘ ‘ Resurrec-
tion ”of Tolstoy. Only the extravagant and theatrical
portions of the book—what are called the “ strong
dramatic scenes ’’—are appropriated, while the real
drama of the novel is ignored, doubtless being considered
too “ unsympathetic” for the purposes of the commercial
stage. The average playgoer doesn’t give a cuss for
literature, art, or philosophy, so it happens that any real
literary work, when it happens to find its way on the
boards, has necessarily to be butchered to make a grocer’s
half-holiday.
“6x8”: The well-deserved London success of clever
Australian mimic, Albert Whelan, recalls to my mind
many excellent, natural-born mimics I've met in the
bush. Some bushmen and bush kids are exceedingly
clever and remarkably accurate at imitating birds and
animals. A 12-year-old picker-up boy I met years ago at
a Lachlan river shed excelled all I had then, and have
since, heard in the line, including the Gippsland lyre-
bird. His imitation of different bird-calls did not only
deceive us, but even the birds themselves, for cockatoos,
rosella-parrots, soldier-birds, crows, and others frequently
answered his calls and flew close up to him. On three
occasions I was eye-witness when he coaxed a monkey-
bear down a tree by imitating the notes of a male bear.
This, by the way, is an aboriginal method of catching
bruin. If the bear aloft is male he’ll eome down to fight
ttie intruder ; if a lady bear, she’ll come to do a “ mash.”
But the boy was equally good at human voices, and his
mutation of the boss entering the shed hurriedly in a bad
temper often brought down the house. Have often
wondered what has become of the gifted nipper. I s’pose
he’s still out in the Never-Never taking pride in the
number of sheep he can “chuck out” in a day. Had I
known as much then as I do now, I’d have taken that
youngster in hand, and made a pile for both of us.
An Adelaide waxworks advt.: “ Heroes, bushrangers,
criminals. Hector Macdonald just added.” Under which
heading ?
“Adelaide”: In answer to "T.D.”(B. 24/9/’O3) there is
an Australian cleric who has founded (and produced) a
drama based on “ Paradise Lost,” and “ a keenly religious
person has made the Deity ene of the characters of a
drama before now.” This double was duly brought off in
Adelaide on March Ist last year by Father Duff, of
Victoria, and the Wilson Forbes Co., including Ada
Lawrence, Harry Fitzmaurice and Augustus Glover. The
play was called “ Two Worlds,” and was advertised as
“ the most unique and daring play ever attempted in Aus-
tralia,” “a perfect revelation in music, poesy, and
scenic art,” and “ a spectacle of bewitching grandeur.”
The opening scene took place in Heaven, and the Deity
was (presumably) represented by a kind of catherine-
wheel revolving up-stage in the centre ; also He had a
fine speaking part conducted “ off.” The dialogue was a
mixture of Milton and Genesis, with slabs of pure Duff
The house stood it very well, until invited to assist at the
Creation, represented by a number of painted back-
cloths. When the sea-creatures had their turn, it was a
great joy to observe the Heavenly Choir singing lustily,
with a schnapper of most astonished countenance looking
out over their shoulders from the middle foreground of
the ocean. After that the gallery only waited for the
(harden of Eden ; and when our first parents were found
to be fully clothed, all interest in the performance ceased.
The play ran for twe nights.
“ Hamlet ” the mummer : * Fisher sat by my bed one
morning looking through the “ Persons Wanted ” column
of a newspaper. I jumped out, threw a bath-towel over
my shoulder, took my one valuable—a gold-band ring
with a diamond set in it —off my finger, and placed it on
the washing-stand (not because I feared it would rust in
the water), and went to my bath. When I returned
Fisher had gone, and—Great Heavens !—so had my ring !
How quickly I jumped into my clothes, and how profanely
I swore when I let one of my only pair of studs slip down
my neck ! As I had expected, Fisher was at the railway
station, seeing one of Williamson’s opera companies off.
He stood leaning on his stick, and talking to a little
chorus girl, whom he ruefully told me the previous day
he would marry if he only had enough to pay expenses.
I hurried up to him. and not waiting for him to leave the
lady, cried, “ Fisher, you are a—a —blasted thief ! ” The
chorus girl looked startled—so did Fisher. I grasped his
arm and continued, “Give me that ring! Give me that ring
you stole off my washing-stand, or, by Heaven, I’ll have
you locked up, you—you dirty ” I failed to express
myself. Here the chorus girl turned away—she was dis-
appointed in Fisher. “My dear boy,” said Fisher, “I
assure you I didn’t touch the ring. Are you certain it is
gone?” “ Sure ! Hand it over, or I’ll knock you down ! ”
As we wrangled the train started. Fisher waved farewell
to his little friend, but received in return only a scornful
look. Then he proposed we should go back to my
lodgings and look for the ring. We did, and there it
lay under the washing-stand—it had fallen down. I
apologised humbly time after time, till at length he
raised his hand deprecatingly, and said, “Do chuck it,
old man, do chuck it! ” “ But I’ve insulted you ; I’ve
injured your feelings ; I’ve disgraced you before Rosie’s
eyes ! ” For a moment he looked glum, and then, with a
languid wave of his hand, said, “ It can’t be helped, dear
boy. Give me a drink, and we’ll consider it square.” As
a rule it takes more than a drink to buy a man’s injured
pride, but Fisher was a cheap man.
CHAMBERLAIN’S PAIN BALM
will promptly relieve the severe pain of a burn
or scald if applied as soon as the accident takes
place. One application gives relief. Is. 6d every-
when.


D’YE
WANT A
CARDEN
HOSE ?
Every good
garden
deserves a.
good hose;
Our garden
hose lasts
longer than
the ordinary
kind, and
is, therefore,
cheaper
in the end.
GET THE BEST—
SHUN THE REST.
PERDRIAU AND CO.,
RUBBER HERCHANTS,
Only One Address—27o GEORGE ST.
NERVOUSNESS,
i,OSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at la** dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.Q.. BYDNBY.
" mrfmf
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E PPS'S
GRATEFUU—COMFORTING
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d.; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTH INGTOM
TRADE MARK.
Boiler Feed Pump.
wr- SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. u»-o»
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, *-ondo«
Warren Webster & Co. now jersey.
Enquiries Invited foe ...m.
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
mm
TAKTGrYE s
OIL ENGINES
Sol® Australian Representatives—
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth and Coolgardie.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
Engineers * General Machinery Merchants.
Sole Agents in Australia for-The Mason Regulator Co., The Pickering Governor Co., The Shedd Electric Co.,
The “ Champion” Lubricating Oils, The Ludlow Valve Co., Sturtevant’s Fans, The American Pulley Co.
New Forms of Vise
a
The “ Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x 18|in., opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, the Addkess or
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines ar.d Boilers, Engineers Toois and Supplies, eto», eto.
m
m
mm
T. M. GOODALL & CO., 129 hay st., Sydney
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE— Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc
irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always available
m
Side, s|" x 3£" x 5".
iiP We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
mm
Scrytton &Go* Ltd,
larence-st., Sydney.
“Rendroek
THE NEW EXPLOSIVE COMPOUND
(PATENTED).
“ Cobar Gold Mines, Ltd., July 13th, 1903.
“ I have no hesitation in saying that it is MUCH SUPERIOR to the
old ‘Rackarock.’ It is much stronger and does better work, and is quite as
safe. I think it is the very best explosive for stoping. I have also used it in
the main drive where it did very well indeed.
“JOHN FOX, Manager.”
CONSUMPTION OF THIS MINE 4000 LBS. MONTHLY.
PROPRIETORS .——l
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. CUBA STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
“Don’t shout”
" I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
"•How? 1 Oh. some- v
thing new —The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can’t see them
—they’re invisible. I wouldn|t
know I bad them in myselh
only that l hear all right.”
VThe Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a'substitute for the
yvorking part* of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy toad
just, comfortable ” Total!?
different from any other de-
Ivlce Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
,P. CHAI Hf gS, 229-831 Collins- f>U, Hcfo
%
m
FITS
•a s d a 11 d a
Xpausay s,qausJi
Iriimediate Relief.
Valuable Booklet
Free.
Permanent Cure.-
The Union Mfg. & Agency Company,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
References throughout Great Britain and
mm
taken from the Sy
Nothing remains v.iiich
produce an attack. "i°' a
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest reW
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by ediin.natiym *W
construction. Appetite improved: W< odenr,a.l“ b >.
strengthened; whole system bun-tup. • femj hft „
R' liCt's. or change of climate no Es-
treated over 52,000 Asthma Fe 'Se FREE-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BO °K 3~c
Address : Dlt. P. HAROLD H AYEK'ASTHMATIC INSTI
Buffalo, N. Y., B. S. A.
'Ms.l4
