

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
■m
10
©nt
Street,
Mining and Contractors’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS
wm
—FOR—
ineers’ and Sawmill
ONGERY NEW and
Machinery, Mining Requisites
PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
13,800 MACHINES SOLD.
Paris
1900
Grand
Prlx.
Two
Cord
Medals
Three
Silver
Medals
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life-size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character—very superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond (a good catch),
.the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox, the Great Yankee Bicycle Puzzle (very
ingenious), and, last of all, the famous Wizard of the
North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°- 85 Pitt street, SYDNEY
Bole Agents for HUSTON, PROCTOR A CO., Ltd., LINCOLN.
Finishing thrashing Machines, with patent eccentric motion Tor driving shakers & shoes, improved Double-crank
Finishing Thrashing Machines, with Belf-Oiling Drumshaft Bearings. Less Driving Power required. Less Oil. SIX weeks
WORK With only ONE OILING, and with less than THREE PINTS of OIL. Portable and Fixed STEAM and OIL McLaren s
compound TRACTION ENGINES. Moffat Virtue SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES. Broadbent’s HYDRO EXTRACTORS.
Fdr FULL PARTICULARS and ILLUSTRATED LISTS apply to - - GIBSON, BATTLE & C 0 85 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
The Bulletin Story Book:
Bjr Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages,
price, 4s. 6d.
HOBART.
[adley's Orient Hotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
NFOLD’S WINES
CONTENT CONNOISSEURS.
'fad
(l'ilLoKu^
■
EROOM’S
INDIAN
POLO STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
We]! known in S.Africa,
China and
and used by all the best player* in fndia. Agents wanted
in Australia, N\Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddler*
and merchant* are invited to write for trade terms.
EROOM & CO.,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
The Bulletin
X
H
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
The Bulletin
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light,
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Save no Worthless
Imitations .
m mm & iw
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street*
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot—Commonwealth Buildings,
Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
THE
•PLUM*
The Bulletin
THB
PLUM’
EjJTLEMEN.—This razor is Superior to aiiy other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind ol
edge that is required t* ensure An easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUii" RAZOR STROP* gpeoially made for this Banr, 7* SC
“RAZDLEO ” LIGHTNING RAZOR BHARPENER, Od cake.
Paica J s ' n tf ,e Razor* in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Cass, SIR,
tranw Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, ISA; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oass, 308.
Reoistkubd aXd shkt Post Frbb to akt part of thb Worm>.
BT Please add Sd. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney,
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
“On Our Selection.” By “Steele Rudd.”
Price, 6s. The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
The Bulletin
The Quality and Success of this Brand
has caused many imitations.
The immense Sale of BOOMERANG BRANDY
the Best Testimonial to its Quality.
The Bulletin
Be Sure that you get the BOOMERANG Brand.
S a cure for Indigestion and Mental
Depression, PEARSON'S PEPTO-
CHLOR has an unrivalled reputation.
This preparation does not cure every com-
plaint, but it DOES CURE INDIGESTION
being a powerful aid to the digestive organs
generally, and is compounded scientifically
with special ingredients which make it a
great nerve tonic.
On Sale by all Chemists, 2/6 & 4/- per bottle.
If not obtainable at your local Chemist, send
direct to The Orlando Pearson Pepto-Chlor
Co., Stock Exchange Buildings, Pitt St., Sydney.
A
=o
%
:s>
SJ
<RAc
oCK>
A
a
©
C~j
HERVEY’S
RACKAROCK.
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
W2L
COOL
ROOF
oof
o.:
AGENTS:
Leading Ironmongers
everywhere.
COOL HOUSES
WHITE COMPO.
Or TERRA COTTA
To Avoid Fraud
-^seeTradeMark
ON EACH CASE&C.
FACTORIES: For these
“ARABIC
two lines address—
’ DEPOT, MELBOURNE,
The Bulletin
Cheapest
OIL
PAINT
on
Earth I!
Helidon Spa Water.
" r —-V-" w •»» •«. —— - 'I I I , ,
A Natural Liquid Food. From Helidon, Queensland.
The Bulletin
Vol. 24.—N0. 1242.]
Registered at the General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
[Thursday, December 3, 1903.


NOW READY
TWO NEW BULLETIN BOOKS.
Our new Selection
By “STEELE RUDD.”
In Handsome Cloth, with about 100 illustrations by the
ntosfc notorious artists.
Price, SIX SHILLINGS.
Beam of field “.r
By WILL H. OQILVIE.
In Cloth, deoorated, with eleven illustrations.
Price, FOUR SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS,
or by post from the Publishers,
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.
+ '
IN THE PRESS, for Issue shortly,
PDil may in Australia
A collection of the Artist’s most notable drawings for
The Bulletin, including some two hundred
cartoons, portraits, and humourous pictures.
Demy folio (about 18in. x 12in.), printed on superfine
paper, and handsomely bound in decorated cloth. W ith
a note on the life and work of May, and a full iconography.
Edition limited to 975 copies at lOs. 6d. ; and2s copies
in superior binding, with extra plate, at £1 11«. 6d.
Note.—This volume will include a complete series
of reproductions of the best of Phil May’s Australian
work. For the personal and historical interest of the
book, no less than, for the artistic value, it must remain
a unique Australian publication. The greatest care has-
been taken in the facture to produce a worthy memorial
of May’s talent.
Subscribers’ names, with remittance, may be sent to
The Bulletin office. Immediate application is advised.
The publishers reserve the right to increase the price
after publication, if found desirable.
—♦
IN THE PRESS, for Issue shortly,
Dawnward, BERNARD O’DOWD
Being No. VI. of The Bulletin Booklets. Fifty copies
only for sale, numbered. Price, 2s. 6d.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Publishes s,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
Book trade Advertisements.
By “ MILKY WHITE.’
A SHANTY ENTERTAINMENT,
A back-block storv carrying with it much of the author’s best bush verse, to be published not later than
A b December 31. An Edition de Luxe (50 signed copies, numbered, with reproduction of pen and ink
portrait of the author of Percy Lindsay) is in preparation. A few oopies bespoken , price, 10s. 6d.
Orders booked by Ford and Taylor, printers, &c., 377 Oollins-Street, Melbourne.
NEW BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S HAIL
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Hprlin Central Asia and Tibet, 2 Vols., 425, postage 2s 6d.
4enks(Parliamentaty England (Story of the Natwns), 6s
n fid Pooock, The Frotitiersihan, 2s 6d & 3s6d,p, od,
lovee Social History of Ireland, 2 Vols., 265, p. Is 6d.
Hawkins and Wallis'The Dynamo, 3rd Edt„ 15s p. Is
PbnsonUy, The Preposterous Yankee, & Bdl & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Wc\ jjoutr — s 6d & os ()dj p* 6(i*
Stuart, What Must I Do to Get Well, 4s, postage 6d.
A Phil May Picture Book ; Original Drawings, Is, p. 4d.
Diiprat, Morals (Contemporary Science Senes), 6s, p. 6d.
Dobson, Ballad of Beau Brocade, 3s, p. 6d.
Bachelor. Darrel of the Blessed Isles, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Lvali (David), Lights Of Home, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Norris (Frank), A Deal in Wheat, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
71
CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
The Bulletin
A . The Larynx, or organ oi
■voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
1). A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and.
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
’PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S
Sold by all Chemists, in tii
ceiptof stamps. Sydney I
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain NO Cocaino or other Poisonous Drugs.
ns, 1/6, or from the Manufacturer, G. Hudson C hem is t, State* and NS
) e p6t: 6& 7 Queen’s Place. Made in Australia. Agencies in all
THE RED PAGE.
THE HARLOT’S HOUSE.
We caught the tread of dancing feet.
We loitered down the moonlit street.,
And stopped beneath the Harlot’s House.
Inside, above the din and fray,
We heard the loud musicians play
The Treuer Lieber Herz of Strauss.
Like strange mechanical grotesques
Making fantastic arabesques
The shadows raced across the blind.
We watched the ghostly dancers spin
To sound of horn and violin
Like black leaves whirling in the wind.
Like wire-pulled automatons
Slim silhouetted skeletons
Went sliding through the slow quadrille:
Then took each other by the hand,
And danced a stately saraband ;
Their laughter echoed thin and shrill.
Sometimes a clockwork puppet pressed
A phantom lover to her breast,
Sometimes they seemed to try and sing.
Sbmetimes a horrible marionette
Came out and smoked it's cigarette
Upon the ste’ps like a live thing.
Then turning to my love 1 said,
“ The dead are dancing with the dead,
The dust is whirling with the dust! ”
But,she, she heard the violin,
And left my side and entered in ;
Love passed into the house of Lust.
Then suddenly the tune went false,
The dancers wearied of the waltz,
The shadows ceased to wheel and ivhirl;
And down the long and silent street,
The dawn, with silver-sandalled feet,
Crept like a f rightened girl. •
OSCAR WILDE.
THE SOUL OF DLVID SYME
DAVID SYME is a bad Presbyterian whose
instincts defy his reason. Deliberately, in bis
youth, he rejected th.e Shorter Catechism ; ant
diabolically, in his age, the Short** Catechism
returns to rend him. In Brunton Stephens, Robert
Buchanan, Syme, and many another before and since
Carlyle, you see the dogmas of the fathers warping the
in lei licence of the children. They stand mentally
between two worlds, one half-dead, t’other half-born.
Anguished anachronisms 1 Come, Da\ id . says the
Seventeenth Century. “ Come, Syme . says the Twen-
tieth He can refuse neither, so he goes with both.
The Soul is sub-titled “ A Study and an Argu-
ment ” To those who know David, and to those who
know Syme, the spectacle of David studying his soul
while Syme argues about it is a spectacle not without its
proper charm. Such a study and such an argument are
indeed to be expected from bad Presbyterians in their
eio-hth decade. The grave yawns unpleasantly , they
study themselves in ; then they argue themselves out
again “Who’s for eternal life ? ” I, says the atavist.
Besides, think of the sinful extravagance.otratipnahsml
Are souls and bawbees to be flung away lightly f Surely
one can make a canny compromise. So Science is black ,
Religion is white ; but David Syme s Soul is piebald.
It defines itself, though he does not define it—a
singular omission on the part of an argumentati e
student “if we must proceed scientifically (P : xii).
Syme quotes others’ definitions, yet gives adhesion to
none. His book discusses a theory of relation between
mind and body; but nowhere be relation
between his title and hi 3 theory. Soul, of course, is
scientifically a meaningless word, and a careful student
would avoid it, since in current usage it conveys a vague
idea that is all things to all men. Syme might have Jus-
tified his title by an definition But he
originates or espouses no definition. At the outset he
fl °He d flounders to the end. His book covers a large' area
of heading and reflection ; bu t a “consists"^
relevant to the argument, and another third consists of
statements unsupported by evidence. The -ma.ning
third is well-argued and germane. Careful perusal
leaves the impression that Syme .accumulated more
material than he could reduce to efficient order. He has
no fewer than fourteen appendices; but his references
to authorities are none the less inexact and scanty.
One must look for his meaning in the interstices of his
assumptions. Apparently he identifies soul with mind
(V 137—“ the seat of the mind, or soul ). And no
word in the English language is used in so loosea manner
as the term Mind ” (p. 75). Syme understands Mind to
be The Mind —a concrete reality—not an abstraction. I
shall assume it to he that something within the human
organism Shich feels, thinks and wills-the Substantia
Cogitam ” (p. 76). . That, then, is David Syme s Soul
—“ a concrete reality— not an abstraction. .
His book is directed to two mam conclusions. .First,
he contends that the mind-soul does not reside in vhe
brain alone, nor even in the central nervous system, but
in every nerve-cell of the organism We assume that
the soul is present whenever sensation is present, and
that sensation is present in other parts of the organism
as well as in the brain is proved by the localisation of
sensations in these parts, and the localisation of sensa-
tion is the direct declaration of consciousness (p. 141).
Second he Pleads for “an after life.” His phrasing
and reasoning are indefinite that one cannot
discover whether he means by an after life a per
netuation of the individual mind-soul as a separate
entity or whether he thinks merely that the totality of
mind force is preserved in so * ne f T °T hp a
the bodies in which it inhered. In the latter case, there
is some evidence from analogy in favour of a hypothesis,
so far as mind oan be dissociated theoretically from
matter ; in the former case, all the evidence that there is
first contention, everything depends upon
terms. If by “ sensation ” he means ‘ conscious sensa-
tion ’’ then, in the ordinary connotation of conscious-
ness,” what are usually called reflex centres are un-
conscious. Syme apparently declares that there is a
consciousness that never comes within the cognition of
consciousness, and he is apparently conscious that be
cannot possibly make his declaration g°° d -. a ttempt
to prove unconscious consciousness is, in fact, a logical
bull which he himself exposes.
On the whole, the book oannot be called profitable
reading. Almost every page contains a _ questionable
statement, and the series of assumptionsis intermmaWe.
In parts Syme reasons shrewdly and lucidly . in others he
seems to have failed to grasp the relations of His ideas
one to another. To quote a few illustrations, out of
scores marked: — , ... -....
“The most simple reflex action must neoessarlly have
a psychical content...” (xxii). That is what Syme has
to prove, and what he knows he cannot prove. Then
“ must ” is not justified.
“... consciousness is an invariable accompaniment of
sensation ” (xxvii). Again, Syme has to prove it : in the
ordinary meaning of the words it is not true. Sensation
means perception by the senses, and it. is a commonplace
that myriads of impressions are perceived by the senses
without being brought to consciousness (personal cog-
nition).
“The opening and shutting of the valves[of the heart];
the peristaltic action of the intestinal canal; etc....
None of these various movements are in accordance with
ordinary physical laws ” (114). All are; everything that
we have knowledge of “is in accordance with ordinary
physical laws ” as far as we know them.
“ Reason may flounder, but instinct is unerring in its
aim ” (191). Both reason and instinct flounder : e.g.,
instinct leads many a baby to eat small objects which are
not food.
“ The monad can see without eyes, hear without ears,
feel without nerves” (203). Syme cannot prove it: the
probabilities are that, in the human meaning of seeing,
hearing, and feeling, the monad cannot.
•* In memory, time and space are annihilated. We can
transport, ourselves from period to period, and from
region to region, in an instant of time” (p. 199). This is
utter misunderstanding. The “ transport ”is within the
cerebrum : it merely represents the calling up by one
set of brain-cells of the images stored in another set of
brain-cells, perhaps the thousandth part of an Inch
distant. _
One ends as one began: in the belief that Syme has
been troubled by the need of finding “ aids to faith,” and
that he has done his best to square his reason with his
instinct. Alas those ancestors 1
MEMORANDA
Of Pinero's new play. “The plot of Letty,
■ay s The Academy, “has been spun out into four long
acts and an entirely unnecessary epilogue. The heroine,
Letty, is‘admired’ by Bernard Mandeville, one of her
employers, a noisy, blusterous cad, and by Nevill Letch-
mere, a sensual man of fashion, who is living separated
from his wife. This latter fact is concealed from Letty
until Letchmere finds out that Mandeville contemplates
marrying Letty, upon which he confesses and advises her
to accept the cad’s hand. Letty, in a fit of pique, does
so, in a fit of disgust draws back, accepts Letchmere’s
offer to hecome his mistress, then in a rather unreal fit
of scruples tears herself away from Letchmere before
harm has been done, marries a good-natured, queer-
souled photographer; and ' the -ourtain comes down
on a highly edifying but hardly convincing situation.”
The Athenaeum says that “ The main action is dramati-
cally conceived, and this fact and the remarkable wit of
the dialogue render the play the most powerful and
significant of recent days. It is not wholly sympathetic
—why, indeed, should it be so?—and it has few characters
in whom it is easy to feel a strong interest, but it. is
better and more stimulating fhaijj most recent work, and
its very defects do no more than reduce it to the level of
those for whom it is specially intended."
Munsey's Magazine prints “the Rubaiyat of ”...
Wragge, for example. Some stanzas—
The Weather-Prophet writes , and having writ
Benignly hack among his Clouds doth sit;
Not all the chilly Sarcasm of the Press
Can hinder him from thinking he is It.
All that invert' l Bowl they call the Sky
He rules from day to day with varied Lie:
Lift not your hands to him for Help, for he
As little really knows as you or 1.
I’ve often found that, never glows so red
The Dawn, as when the Weather-Man has said:
“ To-morrow cloudy, heavy Winds and Shmoers” —
And Sol comes out right dazzlingly instead...
“What is Truth?” asked an aficient Italian.
A modem Italian might answer that i£ is a journal of
large revenues, which enable its Inglese owner to build a
palace at Florence. And a" corollary is the announced
marriage of Labouchere’s daughter Dora to the Marquis
di Rudini. After that, England will see still less of
Labby, who is 72 this year.
One is surprised to read in The Atlienoeum
(Oct. 24, p. 547), “The get-up of ‘The Red-Letter Library’
is not altogether to our taste . . .” The case is difficult,
to be sure : neither form nor format conveys the precise
meaning, and the latter is still monstrous and foreign.
There is a Sad choice of cumbrous 'circumlocutions.
Facture is suggested.
Our public libraries should buy The Work of
John S. Sargent, JR.A., just published, and similar
collections effectively reproducing the work of modern
artists. Sargent stands at the top of technical accom-
plishment : to transmit an impression that can be
understood locally, he might be called Phil May in
colour. For swift vision and sheer dexterity he has
probably no superior among artists living or dead.
Beyond those qualities he has little to give: his results
are good or bad accidentally. If we could join Sargent
with Watts to make one artist, he would be a modern
Michael Angelo.
Figaro says a Pari3 impresario found his son
with a nose deep in manuscript.—" What have you got
there ? ” “A play that has been sent to you.” " H’m ! so
you read plays, do you? Y off ’ll never make a theatrical
manager! ”
Quote Arthur Symons on a picture of Rem-
brandt’s, but without endorsement, for the incidental
suggestion. “Here,” he says, "was nature accepted
frankly ; nothing asked of nature but to be herself. In
all the others, even when nature was the foundation,
there had been arrangement, transposition, an aim at
doing something with nature, at fitting it to a pattern or
setting it to a tune. Life must be a motive for decora-
tion, and beauty must be added like a garment, to what-
ever natural charm life may seem to suggest by its exist-
ence. Here, it was life itself that grew up softly upon
the canvas, without any pattern but what seemed the
accident of nature (nature’s truth, that is), and without
an added ornament except the mere truth of paint. The
white linen about the neck, the collar embroidered with
jewels, shone with an actual glitter, as if the paint
sparkled under the light. And this paint seemed to
delight in its own beauty, as the sunlight does, when it
makes and brightens the colours of the world. A new
art, it seemed, had been discovered, by which things
themselves, anything in itself, could become eternally
interesting ; an art which invented a whole new, infinitely
various beauty, by the mere illumination of things truth-
fully realised, in their precise accompaniment and sub-
ordination to life.”
CORRESPONDENTS
“ Interested " demands authorship of “ The Warrigal
Mob ” and “ The Place Where the Old Horse Died ’—and
reference to whereabouts of verses .P.B.P. : Our New
Selection contains one chapter from The Antipodean;
eighteen from The Bulletin ; and two unpublished. In
consequence of the press of orders, the binders were
unable to furnish the supply required, and publica-
tion was deferred till 2nd December “ F.M.” indignantly
informs “ E.W.D.” that the words, “Sir, let us take a
walk down Fleet-street,’’were the actual words used by
Kendall, and were given as a quotation without
endorsement of original authorship. “ Boswell was not
mentioned, and if the matter had been pursued I do not
suppose Temple Bar would have been forgotten.
But Kendall used, the phrase, familiar to all men, with
intent to change a subject which had become for the
moment painfully emotional.”
RECEITED.
The Tariff Problem, by W. J. Ashley (Lond.,
P. S. King), may be ca led a tract for the British times.
The author is an Oxford Fellow who has held university
posts in Canada and U.S.A., and has returned to be pro-
lessor of commerce in the university of Birmingham.
His book tells in simple language what he knows about
the row between Free-Trade and Protection ... and here
and anon you catch a glimpse of the vulpine face of
Chamberlain peering pver a shoulder as he writes.
Ashley sees it too, and in an excusatory-accusa-
tory preface explains that his opinions were termed
long before he got his present joh. No doubt.
It is merely Chamberlain’s luck to have in his
own familiar town, at his own sinister hand, a pro-
fessor of commerce who has reached by independent
investigation his own peculiar conclusions —even to the
genial suggestion of the Glasgow speech, now temporarily
withdrawn.
For the sake of administrative convenience, each
great colony may perhaps introduce some all-round
deduction of ditty— say, 25, Sty, or 50 per cent.-- in
favour ot Knglish goods ; btit it will quite certainly if
necessary to protect large colonial industries pre-
viously raise the general rate on particular goods
to an equivalent extent, so that on those goods
the reduction will be meaningless. Ihe ques-
tion is whether the colonies—besides the prefer-
ence of British to foreign goods-will consent, inreturn
for adequate reciprocal concessions from Great Britain,
to abstain for a time from entering upon such branches
of manufacture as they have not yet undertaken. In
other words, will they consent to a certain slackening in
their manufacturing development ? (p. 157.)
Just here Ashley realises that he is skating on thin ice,
and casts about for safety. He finds it in the argu-
ment that the growth of manufactures in Britain and
elsewhere, if it has increased wealth, has yet led to no
social millennium ; and that it would be to the interest of
Australia and Canada to prefer settlement of an agri-
cultural population on the land to settlement of
an artisan population in overgrown cities. Nakedly
stated, that is true ; but the alternative may be evaded.
What is clearly to Australia’s interest is to let primary
and secondary production advance hand-in-hand—the
men in the cities being indeed dependent on the men on
the land ferf subsistence, yet giving a return in labour
which is, under civilised conditions and/or practical
purposes, as necessary to a modern state as is subsistence.
Australian dependence on wooi, wherit, minerals and the
rest is clear. It is equally clear that Australian indepen-
dence will never he complete till Australia suffices for
herself in every department of industry. Ammunition
factories, for example, are no less necessary to us than
butter factories— we want bullets to defend the butter.
Ashley’s book is worth reading ; but neither he nor
another can prove Ohamberlain’s case for Austialia. lie
can prove it for Britain—that is, he can prove it is
Britain’s policy to get as much out of Australia as
possible. But what- is Australia to get in return ? That
is what the Commonwealth Parliament, if it is loyal to
the Commonwealth, will.discover.
Blackheath (Syd., Marchant; M. ). A booklet
issued by Blackheath (N.S.W.) Progress Committee, with
some interesting illustrations of scenery. The writer
notes that the inscription on “ the Explorers’ Tree,’ near
Katoomba—to the eifect that the tree stands for the
farthest distance reached” by Blaxland, Lawson, and
Wentworth in May, 1813—is incorrect; since the party
marched considerably farther. Nor was their journey an
“attempt” to cross the Blue Mountains : the mountains
were crossed.—The booklet is not well printed, end is
spoilt by uneven margins.
Pears' Annual, 1903 (Loud., A. and F. Pears !
ffd.) is notable for the uncommonly fine printing of the
chromo-litho. supplements. The art of these .is un-
remarkable, and it is suggested to Messrs. Pears that the
reproduction of one masterpiece at least should be a
feature of future issues. It is nearly as easy to print a
good picture as to print a tolerable one, and the intellec-
tual audience also is a consumer of soap. The body of
the Annual is composed of a story by A. Robida —which
reads in translation like a dull imitation of Daudet. The
author supplies his own illustrations—-possibly adapted
to British notions, and certainly not up to the level of his
work in Paris.
Tall Tales of Tasmania, by “Inshallah” (Cox
and Co., Hobart), is a fluent woman’s rally of rhymes.
The author, “ Mrs. Annie Roe” (p. 87), has been thanked
by the Princess of Wales for writing a “poem of wel-
come ” to the Duke of York, with this chorus—
Welcome, thrice welcome l With glad happy voices
Our hills and our valleys shall echo and ring,
As truly the heart of Tasmania rejoices
While giving a welcome to guests from the King.
This, it must be admitted, is worthy of the subject. The
other verses are a trifle better.
Some Village Verse, by Master Emery, lacks an
imprint, but is published "in the U.S.A. and priced five
dollars. Master Emery is the bright young scion of Aus-
tralia (hailing from Perth) who for the last three years
has been pervading totus orhis terrarutn in a red plush
coat and green plush breeches, with an occasional change
to a green plush coat and red plush breeches. North and
South America have smiled upon him, and Western
Europe; and London girls have warbled, O,
chase me!” as he passed in r. and g. .glory.
He is a bold-faced, good-hearted lad who makes friends
and writes “poetry” everywhere, and lives by the sale
of “ poetry ” and the gifts of friends. A hero after some
romantic heiress’s heart, it may be yet. For the credit
of Australia one could wish Emery’s “poetry better :
still, you can catch a glimpse of honest sentiment
through the cloud of crudity. These are some of the
last verses of the fast “poem”—an epistle addressed to
W. T. Stead, and describing (with footn9tes) Emery s
adventures at Paris Exhibition.
1 intervieufd all the English
Speaking people who had, a wish
To buy my books. But in ten days
These were exhaust’d, so other ways
I had to find for earning bread,
As visitors were few; so “ red
An' green pliish ” found himself each day
“ Working " the streets of Paris gay.
An’ thus a month went flying by,
Yet not one penny saved had 1.
Tho’ 1 must admit 1 wast'd more
Cash in flying about with a—l
Than there was any need to; yet,
In the Exposition I met
My friend— Captain Irwin*— an he
Soon gave one hundred francs to me.
So then I bought a bran’ new pair
Of decent shoes at “ Mansfield’s ” there,
An’ went to see a play, or tivo,
And drove about with—God knows who
An’ some were not like others pure,
For some were rich an' some were poor,
And the Paris papers praised me
In a way that nearly dazed me...
—And the footnotes :
♦The fatuous mine manager of Australia.
♦The clothes were “ red and green plush 1
♦♦Arch Bishop of Canterbury, England.
♦Large Australian bird.
♦ *Oapital of New South Wales, Aus.
♦President of West Australian quarter.
Altogether, Master Emery seems to be keeping a
good Australian end up.
Three Rolling Stones in Japan, by S'sedS
Watson (Loud., Arnold; 12s. 6d.net). A
of tourist’s impressions lightly-held, light - . {or
The author’s qualifications are not remarkable ,
a book of such calibre, with few pictures, the pnce
is monstrous. At p. 307 we have the thi j
Australian home-sickness noted this week : ” ~ kes
go home ; I’ve a kirnl of yearning to see Australia It taKes
me in the gizzard sometimes. D’you know, 1 smell
I’ve a sickening for the sight of a blue-gum, s “ e
of a green wood fire, and for the feel of a hors „
Yes, I think I ’ll make tracks for the Bush once again.
Economic Ideals, by J. D. White (Lond F- R.
Henderson ; Is. net), is a plain and interesting
of the sphere and methods of government
general point of view of Herbert Spencer and Henry
George. The writer discusses the land question, pnvate
property, and State interference, and trade
in money and in postal arrangements. His aTg
apply in particular to Great Britain, but they are
consideration by thoughtful Australians.
The Adventures of Mr. Topham, Comaiian. by
0. Ranger-Gull (Lond., Greening). [Sketches of stage
episodes, mildly interesting beyond the stag .
illustrations by Frank Reynolds are better than usual, j
Deficient Saints , a tale of Maine, by Marshall
Saunders. (Lond., Bell; 2*. M.f [A story of the inter-
action of characters and characteristics m U.S.A. po
Puritan environment. Some curious glimpses of na
sincerity, and its effect on alien nnnds. On the whole,
tolerable.]
AU the Winners, by N. Gubbins (Lond., Long;
2s. 6 d.). (Turf sketches and reminiscences, well handiea
in their way. Interesting to see how little really dull
or stupid is written about the race-course and the
prize-ring. The inspiration of the contests of man or
horse—the sweat and glow of struggle— seetn to courage
writers to a keener energy of mind and style.]
The New Idea for November. (Melb., Review
Printing Co.; 3d.) [This maga. for domestic Aus-
tralian women is now better than any similar foreign
magazine at the price—better than most of them at any
price. When it grows stronger, the advts. should be
taken out of reading pages.]
A.G.S.


The Bulletin
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.,itn.
Are by far the most successful Salesmen
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
OF
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Babbit and Opossum
The Bulletin
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation. SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED!
ouse for Sporting: Goods and Tobacco
MEN’S TREBLE-SEWN LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, sioz.—Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS—
-ss, 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WISDEN’S LEATHER BALLS-
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS-
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS.- sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’
BATS/
P9«Z ‘ S Z ‘P9 S I ‘PC S T ,fi I ‘P6 ‘P9
9 S f £ ST© "ON
BOYS’ BATS,
Cane —
No. 3 4 5 «
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \
All Cane — J
5s 6d, 6s fd, 7s 6d, 8s 6d
9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d
MEN S OANE'I
and RUBBER r
BATS- J
14s 6d, 15s, IBs 6d, 16s 6d
17s Gd, 18s 6d, 20s, 25s
Send for Catalogue, Poet Free—full
list ef Bats, by all Best Makers*
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod-
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d sat
LEG GUARDS-
Boys’, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS—
Boys’, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 6s, 7s 6d, 10s,
15s set.
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s 6d, 88s 6d, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
Deft by
Ss 6d
I
IANSICAJ>
STANbAM)
7s 3d
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure In
the Racquet Trade, and the beet value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 265, 30a.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players—
30s, 40s, 60s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, &c.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation
Covered Regulation
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg
SLAZENGER’S Covered..
AYRES’ Grey Reg.
AYRES’ Covered
AYRES’ Champion
4a 6d doz.
... Sa 6d
... 10a
... 16s „
8s 6d ~
12s 6d, 15s
... 16s
TAYLOR'S,
’Fi.-.-t r
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 16s 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 20s, 24s
TAYLOR’S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped by the
N.S. W. Bowling Association.
Remittance, including: payment for
freight, must accompany each order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
On A Pedestal of Fame
i
[A
y
THROUGHOUT every Country the great good of this wonderful Electric Belt has been felt. The Dr. McLaughlin Co. is by far the
largest Medical Business in existence. Branches are established in all the principal cities of the world. It’s great virtues are known
universally, and it has given more relief to the weak and suffering than ever afforded by all other means.
Electricity is Life! It is the Power than runs your Body!!
It creates your Vitality 1 It generates your Nervous System ! Most of the pains, most of the weakness of Stomach, Heart, Brain and Nerves
from which most people suffer, are due to an early loss of Nature’s reserve power through excesses of youth. This drain causes Nervous
ness, Weakness, That Tired Feeling, Loss of Memory, Loss of Energy or Ambition, Weak Back, Indigestion Con-
stipation, Dyspepsia, Kidney Trouble, Rheumatism, Soiatica, Lumbago, and all Liver Ailments, and to be cured of these
disorders you require the very element you have wasted (Electricity) replaced in the body, and to do that there is only one means in existence
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
will do it for you. It will do it alone, unaided by those vile concoctions, quacks and pretenders try to foist upon you as a remedy for your
trouble. Leave Drugs alone ! If Electricity will not cure you, nothing will 1 Our Electric Belt with Special Attachments (Free) will restore
your power. It will check that tired feeling, and give back the old vigor of youth. We have cured thousands of people who have squandered
their hard-earned money in useless doctoring. See some of those who have been cured by Eleotricity as we apply it:
Failure of Drugs.
2 Little Gore Street, FITZROY, VIC.
Dear BlrB,—Yours of the Bth inst. to hand, ask-
ing: about my health. It Is grand, I am glad to
say. I have had the Belt three months, and it
has done me a lot of good—more than the doctor
did for me in ten months. I can eat like a horse,
before I wore your Belt I could hardly eat at all.
I have gained a stone In weight, and my leg is
alright Yours truly, HENRY warren.
It was a Great Benefit.
MINOEN, via ROSEWOOD, QLD.
Daar Sira,—l am in the best of health ever
since I wore the Belt, and It has proved a great
benefit for me. lam now leaving off wearing it,
as I don’t require to wear It now. I know some
persons out here who got some so-oalled Electric
Belts In Sydney from other firms, but they seem
to be no good at all, as I hear, in every case,
complaints about them. Youra, I know now, Is
the only genuine artlole.
Youra faithfully, E. H. SAKRZEWSKI.
Lame Back#lndigestion.
WYCHITELLA, VIC.
Dear Sirs,—With regard to the Eleotrlo Belt
which I purchased from you, I have much
pleasure in telling you that I have perfectly
recovered. I wore the Belt for three months
regularly, and felt the beneficial effects of it
after the first week.
I remain, yours respectfully,
D. MALONEY.
Cured in Three Weeks.
Carara,
CURLEWIS, N.B.W.
OearSirtf —I am very thankful for the good
your Belt hae done me. After about three
weeks use I have not had a pain about me, or
the slightest sign of diarrhcea. I have not
taken one dose of medicine since I have been
using the Belt, and I consider I am as well as
ever I was In my Ilfs.
Yours truly,
DUNCAN MoLEOD.
Quite Satisfied.
Hay-street, SUBIACO, PERTH, W.A.
Dear Sirs,—l am pleased to say that the Beit
is doing- me immense good, l have been wear-
ing it for the past four weeks according to your
Instructions, and It is working splendidly. My
case being of long standing I am quite satis-
fied with the good results.
Yours very sincerely,
WM. DEMPBEY.
Spinal Meningitis.
EUCHAREENA, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—l have been using your No. 7 High-
grade Belt, according to directions, during the
last four weeks, and the first application com-
pletely banished, as If by magio, all the muscu-
lar twltchings from my lege. I also feel a vast
improvement in my back, and, in fact, | feel
better and stronger all over. I have done more
work during the last three weeks than for
months past. Yours gratefully,
GEORGE CARTER.
Ufc
B
1
S 3
s*?
To you and to every ailing man or woman we will send, on receipt of a post card or letter, one of our ILLUSTRATED BOOKS which
deals exclusively with the use of Electricity-the only cure for all Functional or Nervous Disorders. Everyone should know what Electricity
will do, ad t onderful cures tkit are effected by its use. It is all full of engravings showing how the Belt and Attachments are applied
for various ailments Study our Method Out of all our experience we have built a method of infusing the system with vitalising Electricity
which is the basis of functional and organic vitality. Our Books tell what we know of this. We will send one to you to any address, postage
paid. It costs you nothing, and will be found valuable to you. * ’ p a age
FREE TEST.
-Gall and we will gladly show you how we treat all ailments, and how our Electric Belt is worked and regulated.
r Po No * Buy an Electric Belt until you have given up taking Drugs.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
100 W. MARKET STREET. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE OFFICE-167E. SWANSTON
NEW ZEALAND OFFICE—S 4 WILLIS ST.i
\
STREET
WELLINGTON


PERDRIAU & CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. 1
Established 1881.
First Manufacturers of Rubber Goods in Australia.
Rubber Sheet, Rubber Valves, Rubber Buffers.
Armoured and Plain.
For Gardens. For Steam.
Any Sizes
or Thickness.
ik-Full Assortment of
all Best Makea
Best Quality.
Any Size.
KOSE.
TUBING.
ENGINE PACKING.
RUBBER BELTING.
TITAN JOINTING.
For High-pressure delivery.
For Suotion.
Of best Quality Rubber.
Will stand any Climate.
To hold
400 lbs. steam.
Won’t Slip.
Up to 36 in. wid&
For High
Pressure Steam.
Will make a tight and lasting joint on any surface and under
any steam pressure.
Will stand any deg ree
of steam heat.
DUGGNC JOINTING.
The best Jointing ever
made for Ammo.ua.
Rubber and Oil Waterproof Clothing ■
Robber Goats, Boots, Goloshes, Leggings, Oilskin Coats, Jacket!. Pants- in faafc.
everything to keep out the wet. ’ *
Enemas.
SURGICAL
Air and Water Onflhions and Beds.
Fountain Syringes.
Hot Water Hags.
Operating Cushions.
Ice Caps. Atomizers.
RUBBER
GOODS
Rubber GHovea.
Elastic W»b Goods.
Bandages, Stock inn
Urinnls.
32*30 & CZS C 3. 270 Goorgcst., Sjdnoj.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Fre# on Application.
Flavelle, Roberts $ Sankey, lu.
Lapidaries . . . ♦
Gem Merchants and ♦ .
Manufacturing Jewellers
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
The Bulletin
2
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
6
7
8
The Bulletin
10
No. I.—S Fine Brilliant Diamonds £4O, smaller to £10; with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamonds, £25.
No. 2.-5 Fine Brilliant Diamonds from £l2 to £5O ; 2 Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires, £lO to £25.
No. 3.—3 Fine Opals and 2 Brilliant Diamonds, £9 ; 3 Fine Pearls
and 2 Diamonds, £l2.
No. 4. —1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
No. 5.—3 Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting, £lO to £l6.
No. 6.—3 Queensland White Topazes and 2 Queensland Rubies £6.
No. 7. —1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £5 ; 1
Queensland Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s.
No. B.—l Fine Pearl and Diamond Cluster, £2B; 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
No. 9. — 1 Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubies, £4 10s.
No. 10.—1 Opal and Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
No. 11. —2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
No. 12.—1 Queensland White Topaz (as brilliant as the
Diamond), £4.
No. 13.—Marquise of Brilliant Diamonds, £lB to £3O.
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
13
Send for Booklet on "The Gem
Products of Queensland."
WE HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OP UNSET GEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 100,000 GEMS ON HAND.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B. —Visitors oQly pay for wbat tbcy actually baVe.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying Tor a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, 51ngle, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
rnqaqe rooms at ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.— Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next OEOROE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
0
RC$
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Agents —El!.o„t Bros.,
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Sydney; Felton, Crivwado & Co., Melbcurne.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals^
Works : Birmingnam, England.
The Bulletin
These series
of Pens neither
(scratch nor spurt
They glide over
the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Bulletin
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownci
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT :
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
The Bulletin
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR'S
ASSORTED
Potted Meets
HAM AND TONGUE, &c. IN URGE AND SMALL TINS.
Manufrs.--JOHN MOIR & SON, Ltd., LONDON, ABERDEEN and
SEVILLE. Head Office : 9 & 10, Great Tower St., London, E.C.
k
k
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’#
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Bulletin
CTO 0-0
i antv hoj uivh
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’3 PARASENE.
O’ For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 65.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
$&• For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Uo M
Pitfc-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEABES OF THE HAIR.
flAl/l by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and B
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
I® 111
™ CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
is equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME.
THOUSANDS CLADLY TESTIFY TO THIB FACT!
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS.
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVEUS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
being used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30/* to 84/^
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEEL
(Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co* Ltd.( D *"-8>
i(Sole Agents Wanted for Svdney.)
ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
The Bulletin
FREE! FREE!
Cut this out and send it to us, and we will send you free,
postage prepaid, in plain wrapper, a copy of the new edition
of our splendid, invaluable and standard illustrated Medical
Work, which acknowledged medical treatise should be read by
every adult.
The Twentieth Century Belt.
Our improved Belt is the most modern and perfect in the
world. It is stronger than any other, and is a certain cure for
all cases of Nervous Disorders, Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheu-
matism, Liver, Kidney and Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go
Pains, and that tired feeling. It will cure after all others fail.
Our Belt gives a soothing, warm, strengthening and delightful
current of electricity into the afflicted nerves and system while
you sleep. It never burns the body, because it is constructed
to give electricity in a proper way.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
Others claim this, but we are the only ones who will really send a valuable Belt abso-
lutely free on trial for three months. If you are cured we know you will willingly pay ; if
you are not cured, you will not have to pay one penny. Write at onoe.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. ( Dept.M.,
49 ELIZABETH STREET, HELBOURNE, VIC,


n^AYER
sc*
“ We are old friends, this bottle and
I. We have known each other for over
sixty years. When a boy I was always
taking cold, but a few doses of this
medicine would at once set mo right.
“When a young naan I had a weak
throat and weak lungs. My friends
feared some lung trouble, but
Ayer’s
Chorry Pectoral
greatly strengthened my throat, cleared
up my voice, and took away the ten-
dency for every cold to go to my lungs*
“ Last year I had a bad attack of la
grippe. The only medicine I took was
from this bottle, and I came out all
right. I know it’s good, too, for
asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia,croup.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Wore a Torture
BELT.
SUFFERED TERRIBLE AGONY.
From wearing an Electric Belt
charged by the use of
SULPHURIC aem.
Mr. W. Folley, Alfred Woollen Mills,
Williamstown, Vic., writing to the Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt Co., tells how he
was scarred and burned by the use of a
Free Belt, which lie had erroneously
been led to believe was as good as theirs.
He paid £4 for the Free Belt because
he had been convinced that by paying
this cash price he was obtaining a similar
appliance to Dr. McLaughlin’s Famous
rejuvenator which has gained World
Widr fame as a Curative Agent. It goes
to show how misleading are advertise-
ments which seem to offer something for
nothing.
Gentlemen—ln answer to your kind in-
quiries after my health, I beg to state that
I have been completely cured of the Scia-
tica that has troubled me for years. I
cannot thank you enough for your gentle-
manly treatment and fair dealing with your
patients, as I know from others that their
treatment has been the same as mine.
I may just as well let you know my ex-
perience in- seeking a cure for my trouble
before I purchased one of your High Grade
Belts. I had been under doctors and re-
ceived scant relief; and also tried various
quacks, but it was all the same. I then
placed myself in the hands of a Specialist
(in Melbourne) guaranteed to cure Rheu-
matism and Sciatica, but received very
small benefit from the treatment. I then
had my attention drawn to Electricity.
Well, 1 thought, “ Never venture, never
win,” so I PROCURED first of all a Belt
for £1 and was very much disappointed
because I was informed that it was neces-
sary to take a long and exceedingly ex-
pensive course of drug treatment. I would
not do this and then I wrote for, and ob-
tained a so-called Free Belt, with a
most “ Wonderful Pedigree,” at a cost of
£4. I wore the Belt according to the in-
structions given faithfully for a period of
five weeks, and by that time I was Burnt
and Blistered so badly that I could not
wear it longer, and still no relief was
gained, although the Belt was guaranteed
to Cure Anything in Sciatica in One
Month. You bet I was very much dis-
couraged in regard to Electric Belts.
However, I was persuaded to come and
just see you, gentlemen. I then found
that I had been wearing a Torture Belt
and very Wrongly Applied, and quite
enough to give and patient a Horror of
so-called Electric Belts. After the con-
sultation I decided to place myself in your
hands. I knew my case was very diffi-
cult, as I was compelled to follow my em-
ployment, and standing at the vice was
irksome, and the complaint was a very
stubborn one. However, gentlemen, your
Belt, coupled with your advice, has made
me a grateful patient. I thank you kindly
for supplying me with a remedy which has
Completely Cured Me, and strongly recom-
mend it to all and sundry that I find are
suffering from the distressing malady-
called “ Sciatica.”
I have not been wearing the Belt for the
past fortnight, but have passed it over to
my wife, who has received great benefit
for nervous troubles.
I remain, your grateful patient,
W. FOLLEY
GENUINE BELTS give GENUINE RELIEF.
Stndto THE DR. McLAUGHUN CO.,
100 W, Market-st., Sydney ; 1671 Swanston-st., Melbourne
SI Willis-st., Wellington, N.Z.
BonmngtßK
m
n
/
-
WILL CORE,THAT
Hacking CougK, ,
- Troublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza,
■v . '•* .
A srKfna,B ron ch i fis. Co nsu mp f ion.
I ARGE&SMALL BOTTLES 1'6&2 / 6.
The Bulletin
Double Seated
Turnout Seat
Buggy - £lB 103.
With Brake and
Lamps.
Bulkles - £8 108.
Send for a
Catalogue.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex St., Sydney.
The Bulletin
Board Buggies
Reliable and
Strong, £9 10a.
Large Stocks ot
all light vehicles.
Buggies, Sulkies.
Phaetons. Send
1 for a Catalogue.
n. niLLiER,
130 Sussex-streefi
Sydney, N.B.W.
\
SMITH
*
&
m
21/-
21/
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wales.
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting ’ Watch, 21/-, in good
order ; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value —best in Austral-
asia.
Tours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading Jeweller-
H. F. SMITH,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES.
It’s the modern and systematic manner of loading that makes
Winchester Shotgun Cartridges shoot stronger, give better j
pattern and penetration and more uniform results generally than
any other makes. 1. o black powder shotgun cartridges compare
with Winchester “ New Rival ”in any way; while Winches-
ter “ Repeater” Cartridges, loaded with smokeless powder, are
far ahead of all other, makes, when the price is considered.
INSIST ON HAVING WINCHESTER MAKE. j
Out Stock of WINCHESTER GOODS
Is unequalled in the Commonwealth* Catalogues Free.
PERRY BROS, -
HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
ENO’S
FRUIT
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
c
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING. GA 8 "f* 9
Bms I ■
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION.—See Capsule marked EMO’3 ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepaied only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, BNQ.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Mirant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
By FRANK RBNAR. y Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Troopers.
I saw the mounted troopers pass
Without a sound—
They made no sound
Save that of horse-hoofs on the grass
And sodden ground;
Or jingling bit-bars tossed to ring
In quick surprise.
Oh, God, their eyes!
As they rode tracking out this thing—
This man, whose capture wealth would bring
(I heard the river sob and sing
A dirge to sullen skies).
And as I watched I saw one drop
Without a sound—
He made no sound —
And, signing, bid his comrades stop
As he bent, circling round,
To find the track —grass bent to some
Unmated stem.
I hated them
Because they rode like mutes, all dumb,
No jangling soabbards —tapping drum—
They rode that none might beat them come
Like harnessed men of Khem.
Each man there sat his horse right well
Without a sound—
They made no sound ;
And each man’s eyes blazed fires of hell
As they roved round ;
Such eager eyes and hard-set lips
Closed stubbornly.
They seemed to me
Like bloodhounds when the hand that grips
Their straining leashes slacks and slips ;
When one mad hound his mates outstrips,
And they are racing, free.
I saw the King’s tried troopers wheel
Without a sound—
They made no sound
Save that of horse-hoofs, shod with steel,
On soaking ground.
And in the rainy evening dim
I watched them go—
Relentless, slow;
And knew they would return, these grim,
Hard, lynx-eyed men of stalwart, limb
On doubled tracks—for I was him—
The man they hunted so.
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
Vale!
Heart’s heart, farewell! The twilight shades
Stoop downward like the frown of Fate,
And, sweetly fair of all fair maids,
Here hand in hand all desolate,
Ere yet I tread the narrow years
Far from those dear, dark eyes and wet,
But kiss me thro’ the flashing tears
And love me while you may, Jeanette !
Heart’s heart, our joyance time was brief
And splendid as the glory-shine
Of white dews laughing from the leaf,
Fain of the Sun-god’s kiss divine.
But lo ! the shadows fall and frown,
A bare blade flares ’twixt thee and me,
And vampire wings swoop rustling down
On this, our poor Gefchsemane !
Heart’s heart, be brave tho’ Joy is slain !
What man shall say nay unto Fate ?
And, since we may not meet again,
Still is there death, or soon or late.
To weep no more—no more to part—
Mayhap when this dim sun hath set,
That we may stand strong, heart to heart,
Where Fate is dead, my sweet Jeanette !
Q.
C. L. RIVERS.
The Dower of Spring.
The days are lush with leaping boughs
And sweet with bursting buds,
Dew-lipped and smiling Spring endows
Fair coronals for sheeny brows,
And love, a-thrill with burning vows,
Bathes nude in golden floods.
The heritage of shrub and vine
On wind and river floats ;
A languor, born where reeds entwine,
Floods panting veins with passion-wine,
And paeans, scraps of song divine,
Swell myriad slender tl roats.
’Mid scent of wild flowers burgee ning
And slumberous skies of blue,
You came—a brave-eyed untamed thing,
With mating-instinct strung to sing
Of life and love and lusty Spring—
And I—l ached for you !
The moist winds whispering “Beware ! ”
Breathed pungent incense round,
The sun-gold bathed your warm, brown hair,
Wherein love wrought a silken snare
For my quick heart, which, captive there,
A dazzling chaplet found.
Where wild clematis’ scented snow
Made sweet the song-rapt calm,
While fluttering eyelids wavered so
That rippled blue peeped out below
I watched the rose and lily blow
On satin cheek and arm.
But zoning hands and brave blue eyes
With love-flux may not jest,
No heart so true in simple guise
E’er bloomed by lakes of Paradise,
No head to whiter pillow hies
Than mine did to your breas t.
Spring dies and Summer fades, and gray
Is Winter’s heart, and cold ;
The shrubs and vines doff raiment gay,
And dripping tear-flow night and day
Soaks Summer’s passion—dear one, say,
Who stole our crowns of gold ?
The rain is sobbing on the plains—
Thus should my anguish flow —
The wind-voice soughing through my veins
Is exquisite with murmured pains ;
Ah, lily-bud, tho’ red wine stains,
I’m loth to let you go !
K.3.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.


A NOVEL PREBENT.
0
N receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 6/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsonrio
Sot. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. 81M8, Gold Wire Kins, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
30 Days'
»Free Trial.
"I? VERY Whak, Nervous, and Enfeebled Man or |
- LJ Woman will find ELECTRICITY as supplied by our |
Perfected and Patented ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELT
a wonderful restorative to robust health and visor.
TEST IT FREE OF CHARGE. Our Electric Belt has
no obsolete and cumbersome chain to be saturated with
Vinegar or Sulphuric Acid to torture the skin.
We desire that every sufferer should wear this mar-
vellous Belt and test its healing virtues for thirty days,
as we are certain that it will cure, and that the wearer,
after the month’s trial, will then prefer to keep rather
than return the Belt. Do not miss this opportunity to
regain your Health, for Health means Wealth, Health
and Strength means Happiness in Mind and Body.
Enjoy a full measure of life by being strong and robust
to a vigorous old age.
Remember, we give a WRITTEN GUARANTEE with
each Electric Belt that it will permanently cure you. If
it does not we will promptly return the full amount paid.
Send for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free)*
explaining our different appliances for BOTH SEXES-
aIso TESTIMONY, which will convince the most sceptical
Address: Electrio Appliance Company
DEPT. H,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE BYRINM
Injection and Suction. The besti
safest and most convenient.
Jit Cleanses Instantly.
The Bulletin
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Byd ney
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
The Bulletin
“ACTS LIKE A CHARM."
JONES’
Rheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CORK
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
28. 9d. PBR BOTTLE!
SOLE PROPRIETORS —
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
The Bulletin
; ~DROFE.SSOM /V\UDD'S-
, 9 nu^ ion fOR nn H
Utmost
■CroPS_/iAI_R PAL LI OU T -
Baldness
- PRICE 2/0 -POSTED 5/3^
KROMO
Gives lipe-l'ToLor to grey hair
* - CONTAINS NO
4 s
.FRtCf.
'fUQ3 I7 toU^ sM &
The Bulletin
ITCHING HUMOURS
SPEEDY CURE TREATMENT
FOR EVERY HUMOUR.
Bathe the affected parts with hot water and CUTICURA
SOAP, to cleanse the skin and scalp of crusts and scales, and
soften the thickened cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and
apply CUTICURA OINTMENT freely to allay itching, irritation,
and inflammation, and soothe and heal, and lastly take CUTI-
CURA RESOLVENT PILLS, to cool and cleanse the blood.
This pure, sweet, and wholesome treatment affords instant
relief, permits rest and sleep, and points to a speedy, perman-
ent, and economical cure of the most torturing, disfiguring,
itching, burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours,
eczemas, rashes, and irritations, from infancy to age, with
loss of hair, when all else fails.
MILLIONS OSE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chaflngs, and for all the pur-
poses of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Millions of Women use Cuticura
Soap in the form of baths for annoying irritations, inflammations, and
excoriations, for too free or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes
for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers,
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS, CHOCOLATE COATED,
Are a new, tasteless, odourless, economical substitute for the celebrated liquid Cuticura
Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour cures. Put up in screw-
cap pocket vials containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are alterative, antiseptic, tonic,
and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest, most successful and economical
blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives, yet compounded.
Cuticura Remedies are Bold throughout the world. Australian Depot* R. Towns St Co., Sydney. British
Depot* 27-38, Charterhouse Sq., London, french Depot: 4 Itue de la Paix, Paris. Potteb Druu and Cubm.
Cobp., Sole Props., Boston, U. 8. A.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COIMCFEXITIOKT.
WINES m SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS. &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
LIST OF
BOOKS
The Bulletin
BOOK OF NATURE and IL-
LUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE
bv Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over f>o engraving’s,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-To-Date,• Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
DonkllY’s ARt of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is ;
post Is 3d. Howto Wrestle,
9.1 &Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter., Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s (id. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 3d. House
Painting and Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d ;
post, Is 6d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickkts and Posters, Is 3d.
Stainino, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is ; post Is 3d. Piano
Tuning and Repairing, Is 3d ; post Is (id. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, is 3d ; post Is 6d.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; posted Is
2d. Australian Doctor, cures for all diseases,
Is 3d; post Is 6d. Letter Writer Up-To-Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; po t Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Self Instructor :
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, Is. French
Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s. Cabinet
Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is 6d. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/3.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d ;
post, 2s lOd. Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made
Easy, Is Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is 6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court of
England, Is 3d, post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, l'ss post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
ANl> ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE
AND
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHiS.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
aUMR’s
GOUT
PIIiLS
Is the Great Englisli Cure for GOUT, »nd all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 228
Strand. London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
J. LAIMPES)
108 Pitt St., Sydney.
The Largest and most reliable House in
Australasia for Automatic Machines and
Novelties of every description.
The biggest Money Making Machines for
Hotels, Refreshment Rooms, Tobacco-
nists, etc., always in stock, and each
machine guaranteed.
Th 6 following' are some of our best known Machines
In use :
The Challenge” Punching Machine—ld. Slot
The Novelty Pool Table Machine (game skill)—3d. Slot-
pays value in’goods.
The “ Australia ” —C Slots Spots and P. Machine—3d. Slot
. —pays value in goods.
The Monte Carlo—6 Slots Machine—3d. Slot—pays value
in goods.
The Electric Pocket Lights, with extra recharge, reduced
from 21s. to 10s. Od.
All Goods shipped freight paid.
CSTOur Illustrated Catalogue free on application.
NERVOUSNESS.
iiOSS ot ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at laet dis-
cov-red a SIMPLE MEANS of HELP
CURE, -will forward the same, free or
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free, write
to Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
DEAF
The New Patent
I SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears 4s glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
■ THAT REFRESHING FEELING I
of thorough purification given by
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
makes its use delightful in hot climates.
It is perfectly pure, and contains
10% Crystal Carbolic, an excellent
precaution against infection.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC OINTMENT
contains pure Carbolic Acid (ll ea |j n B
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients to
cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed skin, piles,
cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
F. C. CALVERT A Co., Manchester,
ENGLAND.
TEE BALLET GIRL
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
Htr Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frse, «
The Life, Adventurer
and Confesssioni of»
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Fros, ts.
~d stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and XovtUm.
fvladame Panza,
pox 013, C.P.0..


A - Six Years’ Martyr
To Neuralgic Torture.
A PERMANENT CURE EIGHT YEARS AGO.
The Case of Mrs. K. WARREN.
(FOK THE “NEWTOWN INDEPENDENT.”)
The first and most obvious duty before us
is the adoption of a policy of rigidly shap-
ing our actions according to our judgment.
What these actions should be would remain
a matter of doubt were it not for such state-
ments as those from the lips of Mrs. Katie
Warren, of No. 106 Wilson-street, New-
town. Interviewed by our reporter, this
lady remarked :
“For nearly six years I was a great
sufferer from neuralgia, and although I
visited plenty of chemists’ shops, and pur-
chased the medicines which the chemists
said were remedies for my complaint, I
could not get ease from any of them. The
pains in my head wore terribly severe, and
to think that I had to bear them all my life
was too dreadful a reflection for any woman
to resign herself to patiently. Better a
thousand times to be out of the world than
endure such torture, I used to think, but
what was I to do when no relief could be
obtained ? ”
“Had you.tried many thingst” queried
the reporter;
“ All that I could think of, and the only
return I got was to find myself sinking
lower and lower, for it is an awful drain on
the system not to be able to sleep and take
proper nourishment. I certainly thought I
would never be cured, and became a most
unlnippy mortal; but one day arelativeput
the idoa into my head to try some Clements
Tonic, and when I got some I felt great
r’•f in a few days. The stiffness and sore-
— vanished from my jaws, and with the
hungry feeling which Clements Tonic gave
me I started to eat well, and picked up
strength rapidly. I was so astounded at
the disappearance of my afflictions that I
thought it was only just a temporary affair,
and that my neuralgic pains would come
back again, but for all that I took a few
more boit’.es of Clements Tonic, and I have
not I een troubled with my unmerciful com-
plaint during the past eight years.”
“ And I ho >e you have been free from
other malad tU.”
“ Unfortunately, I have not, as I took ill
again twelve months ago last February. I
remember the very day, which was an ex-
ceed ngly hot one, and in the evening 1
took a cold bath, and caught a severe chill.
Shortly afterwards I was taken with shivers
anl frightful pains in my right side, while
in my back and chest the agonies were in
the extreme. I could hardly breathe for
the pains, as when each breath was drawn
an acute cutting sensation ran right through
my chest and gave me terrible suffering.
During the night a more alarming symptom
than ever set in, for I began spitting blood,
and, as if my fate were not already suffi-
ciently cuel, the pains in my chest became
still more violent. A little relief was ob-
tained through applying hot fomentations,
but I am sorry to say that the ease was only
of a temporary nature. All that week I
was confined to my bed, although I was
taking medicines in the hope of beinghelped
out of my distressful predicament; but I
derived no relief. I could not tolerate
lying in bed any longer, so I got up, being
barely able to drag myself about the house,
I was so weak and thoroughly run down.
This calamity came shortly after a domestic
misfortune which had previously befallen
me, so the lowness of my spirits can be
better imagined than described. Although
I would not stay in bed, I was nevertheless
conscious that my health was drifting away,
as I was kept awake at nights by a nasty
hacking cough, and during the day I was
languid, and could not eat. Because I
vomited clots of blood I imagined some-
thing was wrong with my lungs, and I grew
quite alarmed, while by my sallow com-
plexion and the emaciated condition of my
body I really thought I was going into
consumption I could not digest even the
lightest food procurable, as everything gave
me an uneaay feeling in the stomach, and
my shoulders had sharp ‘pains between
them. Three weary months went on in
this way, all of which time my eyes were
dim and swollen and my limbs ached from
head to foot, the pains across my loins being
so bad that I could scarcely walk for them.
Sickened as I was by a vile taste in the
mouth, there seemed no prospect of ever
enjoying my food again, and as my nervous
system was quite unstrung I was a misery
to myself when left alone, for I was always
imagining some frightful thing was going to
happen, and if I heard a knock or anything
of the sort my nerves trembled excessively.
I do not like going to doctors if I can avoid
it, and I followed my previous practice by
taking advertised medicines ; but when my
condition did not mend I thought seriously
of seeing a medical expert. One lady in
particular was very angry with me for not
calling in a doctor, and she said : ‘lf you
will not do so, why not try some Clements
Tonic. You say it cured you before.’ ‘ But
that was for neuralgia,’ I replied. ‘ Never
mind; it may do you good again,’ my friend
answered. It was not improbable, I thought,
bo I got a couple of bottles. The first one
affected me but very little, and it was not
until I had emptied my second bottle of
Clements Tonic that I knew whether to
continue with it or not. ”
“ Was there much difference in your con-
dition then ? ”
“Not a great deal, but enough to make
me think I ought to give Clements Tonic a
further trial, and I am heartily glad I did
so, for shortly afterwards I felt so much
revived that I ventured to hope I was saved.
The three months’ blood-spitting trouble,
which had held me in a state of awful
suspense from the time it started, was now
becoming less frequent, and the appetising
influence of Clements Tonic enabled me to
take some nourishment. The indigestion
symptoms which had made me loathe the
thought of eating had lost a great amount
of their force already under the treatment
of Clements Tonic, and as the pains died
away so could I sleep in proportion. I used
to prop.myself up with pillows because of
fearing suffocation, but that was not neces-
sary now, as Clements Tonic had entirely
relieved my chest, and in a little while my
cough was better. I used to start up
suddenly from my sleep and feel as if I
were choking, but three or four weeks’ use
of Clements Tonic saw me arising with a
cheerful heart and an invigorated system.
The pains left my body one by one, and my
nervousness was quite overcome by the
toning qualities of Clements Tonic, which
had a regulating and strengthening power
over me which surprised everybody. My
complexion became bright and clear, and
the fears of going into consumption were
dispelled by the robust appearance I again
assumed, for I took my Clements Tonic till
I looked and felt as well as I ever did in
my life. My restoration to an enjoyable
existence should be a lesson to other poor
sufferers, so you may publish these par-
ticulars in any way you consider most
useful.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Katie Warrejt, of 106 Wilson-street, Newtown,
Sydney, in the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely de-
clare that I have carefully read'the annexed docu-
ment, consisting of five folios, and consecutively
numbered from one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements—which
I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment;
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Newtown, this four-
teenth day of April, one thousand nine hundred and
two, before me,
FREDK. JONFS, .T.P.
WOMEN, BEAD THESE FACTS.
~ you live far in oountr y P* rts > where you cannot procure the necessities for the
RSERY, the BOUDOIR, the HOME. By writing to us you can be certain that your
wants will be supplied. FACE and TOOTH POWDERS, Toilet Requisites in Variety,
oaps, Perfumes, Patent Medicines, or any indispensable necessity, may be received by parcel
post a few hours after writing. We have an excellent assortment of Bath Requisites suitable for
Summer requirements. Write to us for price lists, sent free on application.
Dr. Steel’s Celebrated Indigestion
Cure. —The enemy of Indigestion & Dyspepsia.
2s 6d post paid.
Dr. Hughes’ “Pits Epilep.” —A certain
remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms. Won-
derful cures are registered from its use. 5s p. paid
. I*incham’s Capaline. —A Nursery Hair-
Wash invaluable for Children’s Use. Destroys
Vermin speedily. No mother should be without
a bottle. Is 6d and 2s 6d, post paid.
Fittcham’s “Pearline” Pace Bleach
tor beautifying the Skin and Complexion.
Makes the face, neck and hands as white as a
L'W- Sure Cure for Blackheads. Pimples, and
ballow Skin, &c. 2s 6d post paid.
Pyramid Pile Cure. —A certain remedy.
It is so effective that the worst cases are relieved
in six hours. See you get the G. 5 remedies,
3s. 6d. p. paid.
Fincham’s May Blossom Herbal Liver
Tonic.— Made from original recipe of the late
Dr. Fortesque. Corrects all derangements of
the Liver, Bilious Headaches, Sourness of the
Stomach, Bad Breath, Lassitude, Despondency.
2s. 6d. and 55., post paid.
Dr. Clarkson’s Great Re-Invigorator.
—For weak Dyspeptic men, a splendid Nerve
Tonic and Rejuvenator, promotes Digestion,
increases the Appetite, enriches the Blood, and
gives vital strength. In bottles, 7s. 6d. Three
bottles (a course), £l. Post paid.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be mailed free on application to
C. P. FINCHAM, M.P.S.,
&u@wi_§mg(Store, 227 Elizabeth Street,
- Hyde Park. SYDNEY.
Fart -mm strsinroHKEir
J 7qm-Bufc
4
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boil 9, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles ajl
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
jyjOTICE TO IVMEt BOURNE! VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
01arendon-st., South Melbourne.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Publio and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Seasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Rights
t^C&csLLiiyJnfants
TRY **
The Bulletin
FOOD
fief use a//Zm/faf/ons
Satisfying. Strengthening Soothing for Infants
/greeable.Digestible, Nourishing
| AGFMrS fiOfi SYD/V£Y.
SAYffiS ALLPOfir & P07T£fi
RIDGE'S FOOD MILLS. LONDON. Enc
DEBILITATED
TUTrEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
' ’ trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will he more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Vlotoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
Within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars freo.
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S.. Bn*.
129 Collins-st M Melbourne.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
SYDUEY.
USB .
SPOONEE’S
The Bulletin
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders',
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
i Sold by all Storekeepers,
feet Shtps, Saddlers, He.
Macniven & Cameron's Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Ten,"
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Btat!onors throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron. Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
t3T BEWARE OF IMITATIONB. ~*d
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
Cockroaches!
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used fot many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
FOR
Indigestion, Biliousness and
Acidity.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS IN
OLD AND YOUNG.
w
‘Til Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
im,\i
Th* Remit,
CRAIG &. AITKEN. N.s. W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Too Stout
I was for years; b3 r chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17sb. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending' stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway de-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use.— Throw i.he Carbide down the tub
the Machine does the rest.
rohtm
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained several
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than is
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism, Sciatica, ,
Lumbago, aud all pains of Head, Face, or ;
Limbs. .
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS. 1
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick 1
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all *
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists 4
in the Australian Colonies. ,
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys <
all Parasites of Head or Body. , ~ «
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d. ,
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestrb <fc Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


■Eiussrs
Tho
Genuine
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
M)
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only on
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
King Marine Oil Engines.
2\ to 500 H.P. 1903 MODELS.
Estimates given for Fitting Cargo Boats, Tug Boats, Fishing Boats and Trawlers, Auxiliary
Power or Pleasure Boats. Vessels of all sizes built and fully equipped.
PUMPING PLANTS. REFRIGERATING PLANTS. COLD STORAGE for Fishing Boats.
Information and Prices furnished by—
j. f. McDermott & co ♦, 30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY*
Factory Agents for Australia and the South Seas.
SS
There are other “scores ” besides Cricket scores
CAMEOS
SCORE
And scores of smokers prefer “ Cameos ” to any other cigarettes.
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applies
tion to Thk Manager.
CAMPBELL OIL ENGINES
The Bulletin
Portable and Stationary.
26 Working in Queensland.
The Most Simple Oil Engine using Kerosene only.
Lists and Particulars FREE on application to the
SOLE AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND—
CLARK and FAUSET,
Eagle Street, Brisbane
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS and SANKEY, Ltd
Manufacturers of Spectacles ■•. Brisbane and Rockhampton
wm
OPTICAL BRANCH presided over by Mr. CHAS. SANKEY FRASER, F.S.n.C., Etc., Etc., who holds
the highest qualifications as an Optician in all Australia, viz. : Diploma Applied Optics, Northamton
Institute, London ; Diploma Visual Optica, Northamton Institute, London ; Diploma of the British Optical
Association, London ; Fellow of the Worshipful Company of Spectacle Makers of London, and Freeman of the
City of London ; Author of “ The Human Eye.” Send for Copy—Post Free.
Correspondence Invited—Prompt Attention Assured.
Recommended by Leading Occulists.
The Best and the Cheapest.
DRINK ——r
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) & at Helldon.
It Dcp6 nt * s ® n You
IX t 0 , Boke . T«*es
as to the Tobacco some another. You
differ -some bke o very beS t-a Tobacco
ought to be able to ge gqOD a ii round-that
honestly» l«*Y f ooA ma nufacture, for these
isgo °d ’iking. A GOOD smoke.
turein “
TRY
KEYSTONE
TOBACCO
DARK
BRIGHT
CUT
PLUG
KEYSTONE TOBACCO earn.. • rery pl “‘
“ fc r7& H. o. Wills,
l— Al '" from -**-
a „d they »*. »i‘" 'a,ready, by «»
a fair trial for if, eln thab they have placed on
continuously ,eU° « P"*”*'


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0, 1242.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1003.
Phioe 6d.
NO PROTESTANTISM IN BUSINESS.
SPOOKESMAN: “We are all Protestant workmen, sir; mostly ironfounders and such like; and seeing that you were a cordial supporter of the
Protestant Defence Association, and were in the iron trade, we thought you might get us some work.”
PROTESTANT DEFENCE MAN : “Well, I can’t. I import most of my iron work from the Romish idolators in Belgium, and when we get the.
tariff abolished, I’ll get still more from them. Besides, I’m arranging a large contract with some cheap Papists in Boheinia. You'll
have to get stone-breaking to do.”


ESE FEDERAL ELECTIONS
A WORD ON THE OTHER SIDE.
4
As a counterblast to the misrepresen-
tations of the N.S. W. daily papers in
regard to the National cause, “ THE
BULLETIN ” will publish, on December
Stb, a Special Elections Number (Eight
Pages)
IN BROADSHEET FORM
OF AT LEAST 100,000 COPIES,
to be sold at ONE PENNY retail (one
halfpenny to newsagents and to Parlia-
mentary candidates in wholesale quan-
tities). This Special Edition will con-
tain several telling cartoons and the
best arguments that “THE BULLETIN”
can advance for a White Australia, a
Protective tariff, and religious toleration.
It will be, from first to last,
A FIQHTINQ NUMBER.
Publication (in Sydney) on Dec. sth.
Send orders at once for copies. Single
copies by post to any Australasian
address for l|d. in stamps.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
" Australia for the Australians. ,,
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 Q 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
- NOTICE.
fly sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
- Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin trill return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Itlaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid far same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon .—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1903.
Dill Macky as the Emissary of Rome.
One of the most remarkable aspects of the
Federal election campaign in N.S.W. arises out
of the attitude of that Dill Macky institution,
the Protestant Defence Association of N.S.W.
All over N.S.W. it is nominating candidates or
endorsing candidates, and its influence goes
bodily and, all the time, into the Freetrade scale.
All its candidates are Freetraders. The importers
of Sydney have apparently succeeded in nobbling
a crowd of simple-minded clergymen, whose
ignorance of the political matters they are fooling
with is like that of the ant who steps jauntily
on the hot stove, and doesn’t know what has
happened to him till he boils. The Protestant
Defence Association has sold itself bodily
to the importers, and hasn’t got the
money. It has been persuaded, in the un-
worldly simplicity that comes of much
theology, that Freetrade and Protestantism go
together; and that they are synonymous terms.
So it has propped up the importers’party with its
veilow banner, and lent its aid. and countenance
to the hook-nosed Jews of trade and to the
parochialists who denounce imaginary “Victorian
conspiracies.” Calico and religion run tandem,
but calico goes first and hauls religion behind it.
So far as concerns Australasia, Freetrade and
Roman Catholicism have, in the main, gone to-
gether. N.S.W. is the only State which even
talks Freetrade to any serious extent, and it holds
a larger proportion of Roman Catholics than any
other State, a much larger one than the average
of the other States, and a very much larger one
than the most distinctly Protectionist States. In
Australasia Freetrade and holy water are not
synonymous, but they have a tendency that way ;
and a wide belief in the blessings and advantages of
depriving our own people of work for the benefit
of foreign Catholics has always been the strong
point of the State which had the belief in Papal
infallibility most powerfully developed. The
following is the religious position of the Common-
wealth States and Maoriland according to the
latest census return:
Roman Catholics per
1000 Inhabitants.
New South Wales .. 260
Queensland .. .. .. 246
Westralia .. .. .. 234
Victoria .. .. .. 223
Tasmania .. .. .. 179
South Australia .. .. 148
Maoriland .. .. .. 146
• • * •
Thus we get the curious result that the im-
porters’ party has led the Protestant Defence
Association to declare war against the politi-
cal policy of all the most Protestant States of the
Commonwealth. The importers have even led it
to denounce Protection, the fiscal policy of all
the most rigidly Protestant States of the union
(Victoria, Tasmania, and South Australia), as a
Papal device and an unholy Roman dodge. And at
the bidding of the importers the Dill Macky
league has thrown in its lot with the narrow-
minded, parochial, State-frights crowd, whose
perpetual cry of woe is that N.S.W. should keep
aloof from the strongly Protestant States, es-
pecially Victoria and South Australia, and which
sees in everything that happens a “Victorian
conspiracy”—in other words, a Protestant con-
spiracy—and in everything that doesn’t happen
some underhand Victorian and Protestant be-
devilment too complicated for explanation. If
the Dill Macky crowd carries the day we will see
the spectacle of a strongly Protestant and Pro-
tectionist Government in office, and all the Pro-
testantism that Dill Macky can raise in N.S.W.
in Opposition, and trying to pull that Government
down, and carefully cultivating dissension between
N.S.W. and the more Protestant States by its
blood-curdling howl of “Victorian conspiracy.”
* * * *
The declared policy of the Freetrade party, to
which the Dill Macky crowd has sold itself, is,
in brief, to lower the customs barriers so that the
mostly-Protestant Australian workman may be
unemployed while the market is flooded with the
goods of the mostly-Catholic workman outside.
If Dill Macky and Co. were a Romish con-
spiracy blessed by the Pope and with holy water
poured all over it, Dill Macky and Co. could
hardly be toiling harder to boost up foreign
Roman Catholic interests. By way of throwing
some light on this aspect of th 9 case, the follow-
ing figures regarding a number of our industrial
competitors are of interest (as regards Central and
South America, the Indian is put down in the
census as R.C. by courtesy):—
Roman Catholics per 1000 Inhabitants.
Spain 999 Switzerland .. .. 410
Portugal .. .. 998 Germany .. .. 361
Mexico 998 Holland 340
Italy 998 N.S. Wales .. .. 260
Belsrium 997 Queensland .. .. 21,6
Central America .. 990 Westralia .. .. 2SU
South America .. 970 Victoria .. .. 223
France 960 Tasmania .. .. 179
Austria 790 S. Australia .. .. 148
Hungary .. .. 616 Maoriland .. .. VS
Canada 415 Australasia .. .. 216
Leaving out England, Scotland and the United
States (though they also have a strong Catholic
element) Australasia is the most Protestant among
the larger communities of the world. And, because
of inefficient Protection, its Protestant workmen
are to a great extent unemployed while the im-
ports of Catholic countries pour in here wholesale.
Australia’s imports from Britain diminished by
£1,400,000 between 1891 and 1901 while those
from a handful of largely Catholic foreign States
increased by nearly £3,000,000, and those from
foreign States in general by nearly £6,000,000.
The situation would have been much worse but
for the Protective tariffs of the more Protestant
of the Australian States. And the party which
the Protestant Defence Association booms so
violently declares that the new Federal tariff,
which gives the Australian Protestant a start over
the Belgian Catholic, is the head and front of the
Government’s offending, and the fact that the
most Protestant States of the Commonwealth
voted for that tariff makes the offence even more
horrible.
* * * *
The Protestant Defence Association, therefore,
represents this whole lot of curious positions:—
(1) It is howling with the “ State Rights” party. That
party wants to keep as much power as possible in
the hands of the State Government, which in N.S.W.
represents a population which is 26 per cent. Catholic ;
and to keep as much power as possible out of the hands
of the Australian Government which represents a popu-
lation that is only about 22 per cent. Catholic. It “ bar-
racks ” for the interests of the most Catholic Legislature
against those of the most Protestant Legislature.
(2) It is howling with the party which systematically
denounces the strongly Protestant States of the Com-
monwealth as being in a “ conspiracy ” against N.S.W.,
and which, by its yell of “ Southern domination,” seeks
to diminish the interests of the strongly Protestant
States.
(3) It is with the party which is constantly seeking to
build up an alliance between the two most strongly
Catholic States of the Commonwealth (N.S.W. and
Queensland) against the three most Protestant States.
(4) It is lending all possible aid to the party which
declares it is a shameful and disgraceful proceeding to
give the Protestant Australian workman a tariff prefer-
ence over the Catholic Italian or South American or
Frenchman or Belgian.
(5) It is aiding the party which declares that cheap-
ness is the only question to he considered, and that if a
Belgian “ idolator” or a squalid Italian “ Papist” can do
the job for 2d. less he should have it every time.
(6) It is acting as fugleman and banner-bearer to a
squalid gang of largely Jew and other non-Protestant
importers, who denounce, in their own interests, the
Protective policy which has always been associated
with the most Protestant States of Australia; who
denounce the socialistic policy which is associated
with the most Protestant State in Australasia (Maori-
land); who denounce every attempt to build up in-
dustries to employ the Protestant workers of Aus-
tralia as “coddling,” and other bad names ; who denounce
the present Australian Government because it is sup-
ported by the most Protestant States of Australia—in
fact, who are against Protestant traditions and interests
in every possible direction.
The Dill Macky movement would be a screaming
jest if it wasn’t also a tragedy. The spectacle of
a violently Protestant body allied with importers,
who are often Catholic and sometimes Jew, to
boom the industry of Catholic Belgium and.
France against that of Protestant Australia, and
helping the State Rights party to louse up the
most Catholic State of the Commonwealth in
bitter animosity against the most Protestant
States; and lending itself to the clique which
can say nothing worse of any idea than that it is
“Victorian’’—that it comes from Protestant
Victoria —is something to make the gods weep, it
there were any gods.
Mr. Reid and the Labor Party.
“ But if the Employers’ Federation desires to put the
Labor party in its proper place as a minority which does
not govern, it can be in no doubt as to which of the fiscal
parties it should support. The Government is again
bidding for the Labor alliance. A Government majority
will inevitably involve three more years of Labor domina-
tion. The Government is quite willing to be dominated.
On the other hand, the Opposition will not hold office
subject to that humiliating condition. Mr. Reid has
repeatedly pledged himself to use power, if it should be
entrusted to him, in passing moderate legislation, and to
repeal certain legislation passed by the Government at
the dictation of the irresponsible minority which kept it
in the enjoyment of office. What more can the Em-
ployers' Federation reasonably' ask for V’ - Sydney D.T.
Mr. Reid, at Paddington I denounce not only the
Government for this — I doubly denounce the men who
helped them to the violation of the foundational plank of
their political platform. I am prepared for anything
which Mr. Lyne may do, but I was not prepared for
the apostacy and treachery to their vital principle,
shown by a majority of the members of the Labor party
of Australia. I wish to say this to the Labor members of
the late Parliament, and the Labor members of the next
Parliament, that if I could win a thousand offices by
abandoning my feeling of bitter hostility and contempt
for their unfaithfulness to their principles, I would not
do it.”
Hostility to-tlie Federal Labor party is part of
the Reid platform for the Federal elections. It
is a part forced upon him, in a measure, by his
press supporters —the Argus, the Sydney Morn-
ing Herald, and the ARGUS-ling (or Sydney
Daily Telegraph) —dictated in a measure by his
own idea that he can transfer to the Federal
Labor party the odium of the recent mistakes of
the N.S.W” State Labor party. In Us profession
of hostility Mr. Reid is just as sincere as in his
cry for Freetrade. He may say now that he is
not able to “ abandon his feeling of bitter hostility
and contempt for the Labor party ” to gain a
thousand offices, because by saying that he hopes
to catch votes. Once he is returned, he will, as
when he was Premier of N S. W., be the humble
friend of the Labor party if thereby he can gain
one office. (After all, there is one beautiful vein
of consistency running through the Reid political
mind, and that is the resolution to try to be top-
dog somehow, tti which aim he sacrifices every-
thing else.) That is a forecast, the absolute truth
of which can be easily established by a con-
sideration of a little of the secret poli-
tical history of last Federal session. Mr.
Reid’s present “contempt and hatred” for
the Labor party is due, he says, to its
action in helping the Australian Government to
“ gerrymander ’’the electorates. Without going
further back than that so-called “gerrymander”
incident, let us see what was the attitude of Mr.
Reid to the Labor party then —to the party which
had just earned his hostility and contempt, which
had inflicted a wound on his sense of political
probity which was at that moment rankling
fresh lv.
* . * * *
Mr. Reid came back from his great anti-gerry-
mander season of serio-comic melodrama in some-
thing of the spirit of the crushed tragedian who
has ranted his choicest speeches to empty benches
and found an aching void in the ticket-office.
But, smarting as he was under his chagrin, he was
quick to see that circumstances had arisen through
the Barton Government’s refusal to include
State Railway employees in the scope of the
Arbitration Bill, and through its abandonment of
that measure, which brought office almost within
grasp of a man who was willing to do anything
for office. Kingston was furious, the Labor
party seething. Counting noses, the Government
was in a minority of six on the question, provided
the Labor party followed Reid. That was the
question. If the Government were defeated, it
might secure a dissolution, and the Electoral
Bill (then before the Senate) would be lost.
That would mean that the various States would
have to be polled as single electorates for
the House of Representatives as well as for the
Senate. The fact gave the Labor party pause.
If N.S.W. were polled as one electorate for the
House of Reps., it was probable that a Freetrade
bunch, boomed by the daily papers, would sweep
the board ; Protectionist members of the Labor
party, such as Watson, Spence and Watkins,
might thus lose their seats. Meanwhile, Mr.
Reid was personally canvassing members of the
Senate to induce them to throw the Electoral
Bill out, and Mr. Reid’s minions were pointing
out to the Labor senators, as a reason for throwing
it out, that Queensland would then be polled as
one electorate, and would probably return all Labor
men to the Senate. Reid’s friends explained
that to see Labor thus carry the Queensland elec-
tions was Reid’s fondest hope. The position for
the Labor party in the House of Representatives
was a delicate one. The party wished to punish
the Government, but naturally hesitated to incur
any chance of the destruction of its most valuable
contingent—the N.S.W. section. Finally, a
deputation waited upon Mr. Reid, and he pro-
mised that if the Labor party followed him to
oust the Barton Government, and if, in conse-
quence, the Electoral Bill was lost, he would
include on his ticket for the House of Repre-
sentatives in New South Wales all the existing
Labor members, whether Freetraders or Protec-
tionists. If the Senate had succumbed to Reid’s
cajolery, and rejected or seriously amended the
Electoral Bill, without a doubt the Barton
Government would have fallen shortly afterwards,
and Mr. Reid and the Labor party would have
gone to the country as sworn brothers and allies,
just as they used to do in N.S.W.
* • • •
There is no reason for sorrow that it was not so—
good matter for congratulation, in fact, that Mr.
Reid subsequently concluded that it would be
better tactics, since the Electoral Bill had not
been slaughtered and there was no chance to dis-
franchise minorities by a mass vote in N.S.W., to
wait his time. But there is boundless impudence
in Mr. Reid’s declarations now of undying con-
tempt and hostility to the Labor party. 'The
Bulletin does not wish to see anything but hos-
tility between Mr. Reid and the Labor party ; a
Labor party which is honest and patriotic must
necessarily be on hostile terms with a man who is
neither, and whose political actions are guided
solely by a remorseless selfishness. It is positive,
however, that there is no desire on George Reid’s
part to be hostile to Mr. Watson’s party if there
is anything to be gained by being otherwise.
George Reid is prepared to sacrifice every atom
of political principle to achieve office ; he was
ready to go with Kingston and kill Freetrade by
a fiscal referendum ; he was ready to go to the
polls in an absolute alliance with the Labor party
if that promised power. His comminations
against that party now are merely the “no’ 1
to match the “yes” of yesterday and to be
nullified, if need arises, by the “yes” of to-
morrow. They are uttered to draw a few votes
and in the assurance that the Labor members,
setting the achievement of their platform before
all else, will hear him no grudge for the insults of
to-day if they can find him useful as their instru-
ment to-morrow. And George Reid’s obedience
has been well tested in the past, as, for instance,
when N.S.W. Premier, in his abandonment of the
tea-duty which he at first claimed to be absolutely
necessary, and then found could be dispensed
with when Labor-leader M'Gowkn said it must.
The whole term of George Reid’s N.S.W.
Premiership was served by him in pathetic
obedience to M‘Gowen, to please whom he would
even stay awake at night to play dominoes.
A word - picture, in Reid’s present organ,
the Daily Telegraph, of the great Yes-
No’s pitiful appeals at a time of crisis,
“ You'll stick to me, Jim M'Gowen, won’t
you ? ” is still remembered. But Reid’s
political method depends mainly for its success
on the brassy impudence with which he calculates
on the forgetfulness of the public. He is always
prepared to denounce with vehemence what he
has just done, and to acclaim with enthusiasm
what he has lately been bitterly opposing, if the
advantage of the moment suggests such a course.
The public memory he knows to be a negligible
quantity in political calculations unless it is con-
stantly refreshed by the daily press, and in
N.S.W. the daily papers are combined to help
Reid’s Yes-No tactics.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wanted—A Freetrade Politician who
Doesn’t Find his own Theory too
Loathsome to he Put in Practice.
The Federal elections are now very close at hand,
and a Freetrade candidate has been nominated
for almost every seat in the Commonwealth. Yet
among them all, by some strange oversight, that
Freetrade man, who believes in Freetrade to the
extent of promising to practise what he preaches
when the chance comes his way, is not to be found
anywhere. Somebody has forgotten to nominate
him. There is nobody else on earth quite like the
Australian, and especially the N.S.W., Freetrade
candidate in this respect. After a general fashion,
he confidently asks the people to return him
because he is, in a political sense, such an awful
liar, traitor and scoundrel; because he says
Freetrade is the only sure road to happiness
and prosperity, yet he never practised it when
he was in power, and promises that he won’t
practise it if he gets into power again; because
he says Protection is a most disastrous thing,
and he assures his hearers that he will do
a good deal to ruin the country if he gets the
chance, by practising a certain amount of Protec-
tion. For over 50 years, ever since the Deas
Thomson tariff appeared in 1852, N.S.W. has
been a protected State—in many respects a con-
siderably-protected State. It has hardly an
industry which wasn’t started by the aid of Pro-
tection —even its Freetrade newspapers until quite
recently enjoyed 50 per cent. Protection through
the postal law, and have been in a state of raving
lunacy and bitter malice ever since it was with-
drawn. N.S.W. has produced more square miles
of Freetrade literature and more excited droves of
Freetrade politicians than all the rest of Australia
put together—and yet, after all these years, it
can’t raise one MMillan, or Bruce Smith,
or Pumpkin Smith, or Reid, or Pulsford, or
Cook, or anybody else who really believes in
Freetrade. The Bulletin judges these obsessed
cranks by their doings, not by their words. When
it finds politicians who say that Freetrade—the
beautiful variety of it that is practised in England
—means wealth, happiness, progress, enlighten-
ment, and ever so many other attractive things,
while Protection means misery, darkness, and
degradation, and yet these Freetraders demand
support on the ground that, if they are put in
power, they won’t interfere seriously with the
present “ruinous and disastrous” system, that
they won’t “throw the tariff into the melting-
Eot,” that they won’t confer on the country the
lessings that they know how to confer, and that
they will, out of sheer malice, treachery, and
cussedness, damage and impoverish Australia by
imposing on it a considerable measure of protec-
tive tariff—well, The Bulletin’s opinion of the
Reid-Smith-Cook combination drops. As a curio
it has much to recommend it; it is doubtful if
there has ever been, in any other country on
earth, a party which deliberately asked for
support on the ground that it was going to
betray its principles, and that it would not, under
any circumstances whatever, be found dead in the
same paddock with its own faith —or alive either.
It represents the only case where Judas has
demanded special honor, pomp and consideration
because he was Judas, and always had been
Judas, and was going to continue so. It can’t be
too often repeated that, if the oft-quoted example
of England amounts to anything, there is no
financial or other difficulty in the way of a
Freetrade Government giving Australia real
Freetrade. Australia has to raise, per head of
population, less taxes than England does.
Therefore Australia has only to adopt the direct
taxation methods of England, and cease pro-
tecting anything, and abolish all preferential
railway rates in favor of local produce, and
decline to give any consideration to local
industries in the matter of tenders—and it will
arrive. There is nothing to prevent it arriving
except the sincere and enthusiastic Freetrader
who will see his own faith hanged first.
4.
Victoria’s “ toss of Population.”
The large emigration from Victoria, mostly to the
Protectionist State of Westralia, which went on
for a few years, is one of the strong points of the
importers’ party in the present electoral cam-
Saign. To the kind of elector whose mind can’t
old more than one idea at a time the point looks
a strong one. The importer’s political pimp puts
it in these five crude but telling propositions:
(1) N.S.W. was a Freetrade State.
(2) Its population increased.
(3) Victoria was a Protectionist State.
(4) Its population didn’t increase.
(5) Therefore
Put that way it looks very plain and convincing,
and the simplest-minded elector who ever asked
for threepenn’orth of Tooth’s beer can understand
it. That makes it effective. If the real circum-
stances of the case are put forward the matter is
much more complicated, and the person whose
head can’t hold details doesn’t understand it so
well. Facts often are complicated, while a lie, if
it is invented by a competent liar, never is. The
true situation reads thus :
(1) N.S.W. never was a Freetrade State, though a
robust lie to that effect has been very long in circulation.
Anybody who looks at its various tariffs as published in
back issues of the Australian Year Book can convince
himself of this.
(2) Victoria was only a moderately Protectionist coun-
try. It certainly never was Protectionist in the United
States or Canadian sense.
(3) The population of N.S.W. didn’t increase by excess
of arrivals over departures all the time. In 1890-1891
(two years), with immense borrowing and under Parkes’s
semi-Protective tariff, the increase by immigration was
32,456. In 1892-1895 (four years), with much less borrow-


ing, and under Dibbs’ semi-Protective tariff, the increase
by excess of arrivals was 2488. In 1890-1901 (six years),
under the Reid tariff, which was really some approach to
Freetrade, and despite a steady increase of borrowing in
order to find work for the people, N.S.W. lost 10,219
people by excess of departures over arrivals. In the last
year of the Reid tariff it was exporting population even
faster than Victoria.
(4) In 1887-1891 (five years), Victoria with higher Pro-
tection than N.S.W., and despite the fact that it was
four times as crowded as N.S.W., and more crowded than
even some parts of Britain, gained 10,000 more people by
excess of arrivals over departures than N.S.W. did. This
was a period of heavy borrowing in both States.
(5) In 1892, Victoria suddenly and almost entirely left
off borrowing, and threw out of employment some
40,000 men and their families who had been employed,
directly or indirectly, bn public works. The crowded
little State had now practically no public lands left to
settle its people on, so emigration started. In the next
nine years about 110,000 people, representing about half
those who had been deprived of their employment by
Turner’s partial suspension of the loan policy, left,
mostly for the Protectionist State of Westralial Still,
despite this exodus, the population steadily increased.
N.S.W. still borrowed immense sums to find artificial
employment for its people, so it had a much smaller
emigration.
(6) The borrowing policy gradually resumed again in
Victoria, and as it did so the emigration diminished. In
1901 Victoria, though it was four times as crowded as
N.S.W., and though it borrowed only about £900,000 to
find employment for its people on public works, only sent
away 3784 more people than it received; while N.S.W.,
though it borrowed £4,800,000 to supply employ ment for
its people, sent away 6741 more people than it received.
(7) During the ten years 1592-19. H the only States which
gained all the time by excess of arrivals over departures
were the heavily-protected States of Maoriland and
Westralia.
These facts don’t siied much positive information
on the subject—there are so many items to be
taken into consideration that the truth of the case
can’t compare, as a readily understandable argu-
ment, with the simple lie and yell that a Freetrade
State gained population while a Protectionist one
didn’t. But these matters are beyond question:—
(1) That N.S.W. gained by immigration while it was a
considerably protected State, and borrowed very heavily ;
and lost population when it was almost (though not
quite) a Freetrade State, and borrowed heavily'—though
not quite so heavily. ,
(2) That Victoria, though four times as crowded as
N.S.W., gained population on an even larger scale than
N.S.W. when it was a considerably protected State, and
borrowed very’ heavily'. When it was a considerably pro-
tected State, but hardly’ borrowed at all, it lost for a few
years by excess of emigration, people going to a protected
State which had just begun to borrow heavily.
(3) That Australia, for want of sufficient industries
(arising from too much importation), seems to regulate its
increase of population mostly by the amount it borrows.
♦
White Australia.
A correspondent writes to The Bulletin from
Melbourne:
As a regular attendant at church, I raise my voice in
protest against the persistent championing of the cause
of the nigger and Chow by the brethren in broadcloth.
Last Sunday the Rev. J. J. Watsford, an undeniably
clever man, but evidently warped in the same direction
as most parsons, held forth, with emotion in his voice, on
the fact that “ we have drawn a rigid color-line, and have
said ‘ because you are black or yellow, you shall not come
in here.’” The amusing feature of this case is, that for
the whole of the week following this outcry’ the papers
have been filled with accounts of the manner in which the
heathen have raged in that pest-house of Asiatic filth,
Little Bourke-street, besides sundry accounts of the san-
guinary performances of some Hindus. A period of
enforced residence in Lilly Buck-stleet might have a salu-
tary effect on such nigger-lovers.
After all, however, the parson is more of a fool
than a knave on this subject. He is full of a flabby
kind of morality and is shamefully and horribly
ignorant of political economy, a subject about
which even the most dreadful pastor ought to
know something. Some facts in this connection
which the Democratic party should paste on
every church door are these :
(1) The colored man, as a rule, is a cheap worker.
, (-) There is no mystery or gloom or dead secret about
the reason of his cheapness. He has no way of being
cheap that isn’t known to the white worker. He is cheap
because he doesn’t want books or newspapers ; because
he doesn’t mind whether he is half-clothed, or less than
half-clothed ; because he doesn’t object to sleeping ten
in a room (there have been 29 Asiatics found sleeping in
one room); because he doesn’t mind sleeping on the
floor with his clothes on ; because he doesn’t want much
in the way of furniture or ornaments ; because (as regards
some varieties of him anyhow) he doesn’t mind having
one wife to 15 male heathens, and he thus saves the
expense of a family ; because he economises on all the
decencies of life. Any man can be cheap enough if he is
hog enough. The evidence lies in the fact that in every
city the nigger quarter is the dirtiest, and most crowded,
and most objectionable.
(3) In every industry which the nigger enters in
large numbers—and when the said nigger is allowed
to pervade the country freely he enters largely
into many industries —he reduces wages, and the
white man must either come down to his wages or else
leave the industry. He can’t afford to leave every indus-
try that the nigger enters. And he can only come down
to the nigger’s level of cheapness by living as the nigger
does, sleeping a dozen in a room, with one unsexed female
derelict as the joint property of a dozen men. Being a
white man he objects to this kind of competition.
(4) Therefore the attempt to give free access to all people
t a AL c ? lo . rs '- 8 a degrading conspiracy for the abolition
of Christianity and civilisation. And the parson, to his
shame and discredit, is the centre of that conspiracy.
The cheap nigger doesn’t come into competition with
him, and doesn’t drag him down, and he doesn’t seem to
care much who else is dragged down. The refuse of
Asia doesn’t live, as a rule, in the street that he inhabits,
and he doesn’t care if the mere working man has to pub
up with the refuse’s companionship. Even when the
parson goes away on the missionary business he doesn’t
live close alongside his nigger if he can help it. He is a
most exclusive person, who spends his time explaining
what a sin it is for the workman to be exclusive also.
Some such remarks as these ought to be read
every Sunday to every nigger-loving parson in
the land till he gets into a better frame of mind.
That kind of individual is nothing short of an
enemy of the human race, and his grieved remarks
about the white worker’s objections to his com-
petitor’s color are an insult to his own intelligence.
It isn’t the color, but the habits that generally
go along with the color, that cause a line to be
drawn.
•
To the Freetrade Labor Man —if Such a
Person Exists.
The Bulletin again appeals to the Free:rade
Labor man, if that contradiction in terms is
possible, to come in out of the wet at the ensuing
Commonwealth elections. The great object of
Labor combinations is to secure fair and adequate
remuneration, and fair and adequate conditions
(which are part of the remuneration) for the Aus-
tralian workman. To do that he exercises all his
power and influence to prevent the Australian
market being supplied by the Australian blackleg
—the man who is prepared, in order to make sure
of a job when work is scarce, to work for less than
the union wage or for less than the union conditions.
Ihe whole art and mystery of blacklegging con-
sists in working for less than union terms, of which
terms the union wage is the chief. But if the
union terms in Australia are Is. an hour the
foreign unionist who works for 6d. an hour is a
greater danger to Australian unionism than the
Australian blackleg who works for 9d. If the
free production, sale and use of the output of the
Australian blackleg at 9d. an hour would kill
Australian unionism, then the free influx, sale and
use of the products of the foreign unionist at 6d.
an hour would kill it still more effectually. And
the cheap alien, in an immense proportion of
cases, _ isn’t even a unionist. The Freetrade
Laborist lays his curse on the goods of the
Australian blackleg, yet by some strange mental
kink he sees no special harm in the goods of the
foreign blackleg. When the cheap goods of the
foreign blackleg come in freely, the Australian
Freetrade unionist remarks with pride, “See
how Freetrade supplies us with cheap com-
modities ! ” When the cheap goods of the Aus-
tralian blackleg (the goods being made cheap iu each
case by men working for less than the Australian
union rate) are put on sale in the same shops, he
doesn’t cheer for the great gospel of cheapness—
his remarks are mostly “damn.” The cheap
foreign unionist or disunionist—it doesn’t matter
which—is just as fatal to the principle of Aus-
tralian unionism as the local backslider. The
gre'at unions of ironworkers, weavers, spinners,
and so on, whose votes ought to go far to make
the Labor party strong enough to run the Parlia-
ment and to form its own Labor Ministry, don’t
exist, simply because the industries are practi-
cally non-existent, and the industries don’t exist
because the goods are imported. And for the
same reason many other unions don’t exist, and
many more are so small and feeble that they
might as well not exist, and the political
progress of the Labor movement is slow in con-
sequence. The people who engineered the revival
of Freetrade in England some 50 years ago left
unionism out of their calculations. It was no part
of their scheme. Their idea was mostly about
cotton —-cotton grown by cheap slave niggers in
America and prepared by cheap white blacklegs
in Lancashire. And the only kind of unionism
that has made much progress under Freetrade is
low wage unionism—which isn’t the kind Austra-
lia wants. The joy of seeing full-grown men
banding together in a solemn covenant that they
would rather perish than work for less than the
union wage of 17s. 6d. a week fails to appeal to
the Australian.
The Pour Vic. Freetrade Tories.
The four superfine Tory fossils, Derham,
MTntyre, Smith and Templeton, selected at a
hole-and-corner meeting at Scott’s hotel, Mel-
bourne', to run for the Senate in the Tory interest,
are out on this ticket:—
(1) We are opposed to the domination of the Government
by the Labor party or any section of the community.
Which is just claptrap and flummery. The Govern-
ment of every country must be dominated by some
section of the community. That is the essential
principle of Party Government. When George
Turner, of the shabby brown suit, was in office,
the Liberal section of the community dominated
the Victorian Government. Now that Irvine, of
the shabby cold heart, is in power, the Govern-
ment is dominated by the Tory section of the
community. But so long as there are two or more
parties in Parliament the country is, in a sense,
governed by some section of the community.
(2) We favor conciliation and arbitration, but oppose
compulsion.
Which means that we favor law, but are opposed
to policemen and judges.
(3) We favor Preferential Trade, and shall support any
practicable proposals t,o bring- all parts of the empire into
the closest possible union.
The empire is mostly nigger. The four want to
get into the closest possible union with niggers
and Chinamen.
(4) We favor fiscal peace, and shall oppose any altera-
tion of the tariff during the course of the next Parlia-
ment, excepting such as may be necessary to carry out
any agreement with the mother country for Preferential
trade.
All of which is a barefaced attempt to throw dust
in the eyes of the electors. Three out of the four
fossils — Derham being the odd fossil—are rabid
Freetraders. The party that is supporting the
four fossils is spending money and time to get
candidates in the House of Reps, for the avowed
purpose of upsetting the tariff. The Preferential
trade agreement with Britain that the fossils talk
of can be brought about by reducing the duties on
British goods by one-half, or by doubling the
duties on non-British goods. Which way are the
fossils going ?
(5) We shall insist on economy in Federal expenditure.
Which is also an item in the Labor ticket. Every
party says that. Dekham, by the way, was a
member of the Gillies Government, the most
frantic boom, borrow, bosh, bubble, and burst
combination Victoria ever saw.
(6) We consider the proposal for a transcontinental
railway premature.
(7) We hold that the condition of the Australian
finances precludes the present consideration of the
question of establishing a Federal capital.
Which last suggests repudiation or indefinite
postponement of a constitutional contract.
Dekham, MTntyre, Smith and Templeton all
voted for the Commonwealth constitution, and
that constitution was perfectly plain and straight-
forward about the capital. Their new attitude
suggests that the word of four Tories is worth
about as much as that of one bottle-0 man. It
also reveals the curious fact that the scanty Free-
trader seems to be the only man in Victoria who
wants to diddle N.S.W. on the capital question.
♦
Cotton.
The Bulletin receives this letter on “ the Cotton
Question ”: —
Your paragraph re what I said about cotton culture is
more insulting than useful to the general public. I state
again that, in consequence of recent labor-socialistic
legislation, in both State and Federal Parliaments,
no cotton-growing company will be anxious to invest
money in Queensland or Australia—-a fact to be deplored.
What you say about “a quaint person named Craig,”
guilty of “ dull ignorance or invention,” it is you that
shows the latter most. When first you dumped type and
cases upon Craig’s wharf at Cooktown I was and am now
an authority upon cotton culture, and its colonial com-
merce. lam glad that the Queensland Premiers you
mention were neither' Bartons, Sees, nor Deakins —that
the Labor party could not “boss” them. I know them
all, but the growing of Socialism, under the guise of
Labor, is now represented in the Queensland Ministry’.
I leave it to the public if I am right or wrong in saying
what I did. There is no misrepresentation about me on
the subject, and I intend to say more about it. —Yours,
&c., “That Quaint Person Named Craig.”-
The Bulletin, in reply, would like to ask Mr.
Cbaig these questions :
(1) Did any person or company show any wild desire to
invest in cotton growing in Australia in the days when
there was no Labor party and when socialistic legislation
hadn’t begun ? If it was not so, how does he know that
it is socialistic legislation that prevents anybody investing
now ? If it was so, where are the flourishing plantations
that these people started in the old days and which
“ socialistic legislation ” killed ? Also, who are the capi-
talists that want to start cotton plantations here ?
(2) Seeing that, in the 12 years since Labor became a
power in politics, agriculture and manufactures have
grown as they never did before, what is all the row’
about? Between 1891 and 1903 the cultivated area of
Australia grew from 5,365,000 acres lo 8,470,000 acres.
Between 1890 and 1901 (complete figures for 1902-3
are unfortunately not to hand yet, and Coghlan uses
1890 instead of 1891 in his manufacturing statistics for
some reason not explained) the number of hands em-
ployed in the factories of the Commonwealth have
increased as follows :
Beginning of Socialistic Legislation.
Hands Employed. Increase.
1890 133,147 ..
1895 133,631 .. 484
Period of Advanced Socialistic Legislation.
1901 19 ,037 .. 69,406
In Maoriland, from 1885 to 1895, the hands employed in
manufactures increased by 5294 only (from 22,095 to
27,389). Uuder high Protection and the most advanced
socialistic legislation in the world the increase between
1895 and 1900 was 21,329 (from 27,389 to 48,718).
(3) Is it worth while reversing a system which shows
such good results for the sake of an imaginary’person
who is said to want to plant a little cotton ? Many years
ago, when there was no socialistic legislation, that
mythical character was offered free grants of land and'
full permission to employ nigger labor, and even then
he didn’t eventuate.
(4) Is the whole future of Australia bound up in cotton,
and do all the hopes of this country centre in getting
some outside investor to come here, spend locally the
smallest possible amount in wages, and send the profits
of the industry to England ?
Quaint persons like Mr. Ceaig would be a great
deal more effective if they would come down to
dry, concise particulars, instead of waving the
wild banner of flapdoodle and disappearing in
a haze of generalities.
*
M’Millan s Evidence in Favor of
Protection.
Seeing that William M'Millan, who was
supposed to have quitted Federal politics, has
emerged again from behind his bale of goods
to talk about the advantages of Freetrade, the
community naturally looks back at those remark-
able circulars which his firm issued in February,
1902 —four months after the Federal tariff came
into existence. The most interesting of them
read in this wise:
In future it is our intention to MANUFACTURE
LOCALLY all lines that can be made up here to advan-
tage, THUS SAVING THE HEAVY IMPORT DUTIES
on apparel.
The Clothing Factory : Owing to the very large increase
in this branch of our business we have been compelled to-
add two additional storeys to our factory, and throughout
it is now equipped on entirely modern lines, and able to
cope with all demands.
Our Shirt Factory has been established for some
THREE MONTHS now, and during that time has been
engaged in making up goods for the new season ; THESE
SHIRTS WILL ESCAPE THE 27J PER CENT. DUTY on
imported lines. In this factory we have ALREADY
OVER 100 HANDS EMPLOYED.
Straw [Hat] Factory : In this branch WE HAVE ALSO-
HAD TO DUPLICATE THE MACHINERY to enable us
to keep up output with the demand, and are now turning
out 500 dozens per week ; clients may therefore thoroughly
rely upon all orders placed with us being duly executed
in the future.
Three great lines of flannels at less than Freetrade
prices 28/29 inch, 60yd. lengths, at 9d. per yard ;
30 inch full, 48yd. lengths, at lid. per yard ; 36 inch full,
48yd. lengths, at 13d. per yard, in assorted colors as
samples enclosed. Please compare these with any
imported or locally-purchased goods you may have
obtained before the duties were imposed. You will,
recognise these goods are of exceptional value, and it will
prove to your advantage to fill requirements for the
coming season immediately. Our supplies from the mills
are coming forward freely, and we are prepared to execute
your orders at once, or if placed with us now can
guarantee delivery for either March Ist or April Ist, as-
you may desire.—Soliciting your favors, we are, dear Sir,
yours faithfully, W. and A. M’Arthur, Ltd.
Sydney, 20th February, 1902.
In that circular M'Millan declared two things;
most definitely :
(1) That Protection fosters new industries and supplies;
the people with employment.
(2) That it doesn’t raise prices ; M‘Millan assured the
people that if they bought bis locally-made shirts they
would escape the duty— not have it added on to the price.
(3) Also, he broadly implied that under Protection,
prices were actually reduced. The proud invitation to-
compare the price of M‘Millan'B locally-manufactured:
article, produced under Protection, with that of the
imported article bought before the duty went on, is;
clearly intended to suggest that.
The resurrection by the Pioteo ion Union*
and the quoting by J. B. Dalley, candidate
for M'Millan’s old electorate, of this well-
known and frequently-published circular, only
evoked two responses. Freetrade candidate
Kelly said wildly that it was a “calumny,”
and contradicted some of the statements of the
circular in a way that was doubtless well-meant,
but which was simply calling the M’Millan firm
a liar; and a Freetrader wrote anonymously in
S.M. Herald accusing the Protectionists of
circulating anonymous literature. But that
doesn’t make things any easier for M’MILLAN.
The discrepancies are too glaring. If M'Mii.lan,
the merchant, is telling the truth about the
blessings of Protection, then it isn’t worth while
listening to M'Millan, the politician. And if
M‘MILLAN, the politician, is telling the truth
about the horrors of Protection, then nobody
should buy shirts off so unreliable a person as
M’Millan, the merchant. It is a very absurd
position for a great statesman to get his party
into over a few paltry shirts.
+
The Decreasing-Population Lie.
In view of the fact that Australia is just now full
of Tory hysterics about the alleged “ decrease of
population,” it is just as well for some calm paper
which isn’t the maddened child of circumstance
to present the real facts of the case. The alleged
decrease of population is said to arise from
A nefarious nigger exclusion law.
The shutting out of the Six Hatters who never were
shut out—they are here now.
The domination of the Labor party, which, being a
mere fraction of the Legislature, can't dominate.
Socialistic legislation generally.
And the reason why the decrease of population
doesn’t arise from any of these causes is that the
said decrease is a lie, and doesn’t exist, and never
did exist. But the increase of the population of
the Commonwealth has been as follows !
Population of the Increase
Commonwealth. per year.
Normal Period
1841 206.095
1851 403,889 19,779
Gold Boom
1861 1,153,973 75,008.
Gold and Land-Sales Boom
1871 1,668,377 51,440
Gold, Land-Sales, Loan
and Bank Boom
1881 2,252,617 58,424
1891 3,183,237 93,062
1893 3,367,610 92,186
Bank-Smash and general
collapse
1900 3,774,710 58,157
1901 3,832,850 58,140
1902 3,886,080 53.230
Australia can’t help its recent droughts ; it can’t
sell its £100,000,000 or £150,000,000 worth of
public lands over again and spend the proceeds;
it can’t borrow its £200,000,000 or so of foreign
loans over again and spend them ; it can never
get its land boom going again; and it can
never restore the confidence of the outer world in
that gang of shameless but holy and gentlemanly
Tory swindlers who so disgracefully diddled John
Bull out of two or three millions of his deposits
in 1892 and 1893. The impression that Australia’s
high-class Tories are a gang of confidence-men
who ought to be in gaol will not quite depart from
John Bull’s mind for a generation. But, with all
these drawbacks, Australia’s census keeps on
improving, though not so fast as it should do, and
probably not so fast as it would do if this country
had given evidence of a desire to be honest in 1893
by sending a number of the gentlemen who now
howl about “socialistic legislation” into penal
servitude. So, with all drawbacks, the alleged
“ decrease of population ”is just a lie—no more
and no less.
«
N.S.W. State Parliament.
N.S.W. Parliament closed its 1903 session in a
singularly appropriate way. There was a general
impression that the session should end before
the Federal elections campaign began; but a
demoralised House drifted on into the very middle
of those elections, not because it had work it
wished to do, but because it was in the mood of
the man who was too tired to do anything, and
too lazy to go to bed, and too pour in
spirit to commit suicide. Then the shadow
of Christmas fell over the House and it was
decided to do something, just a little, to justify
a session’s turmoil, and then go into recess. But
work was impossible to the House, and weariness,
disorganisation -and cuss words supervened. On
Nov. 26th the Assembly met with the under-
standing that it was to knock off after that even-
ing. But the session could not die decently ; it
would have been an unwarrantable solecism had
it done so. The usual cat-prowl was started,
and, in an atmosphere of spit, scratch and squeal,
sufficient honorable members went out to reduce
the attendance below quorum level, and the
House was counted out. The Bulletin cannot
recollect a session having ever before closed in
that way—by enough members drifting out for a
drink or a smoke to close down the House on its
last day; but the extraordinary precedent fitted
in absolutely with the character of the session
which it ended. Opening on June 16, this
term of N.S.W. Parliament has been marked by
many neglected duties, by many condoned
scandals, by many disgraceful scenes, by much
language that makes Hansard eagerly read by
Hawklet patrons, but by practically no measure
of practical utility, unless the Crown Lands Act
can be so styled. The Referendum Act, which
purports to give the electors the chance to
determine the question of the reduction of
members, is a farce because it fetters the decision
of the people. Excluding those two measures,
the session was barren of any act of importance.
But some most important Bills were lost, including
Influx of Criminals Prevention, Commercial
Causes, Defamation, State Children, Forestry,
Public Health, Industrial Arbitration Amend-
ment, Testator’s Family Maintenance, Fertilisers
Adulteration, Dairy Industry, Coal Mines Regu-
lation, Public Instruction Amendment, Liquor
Amendment, Gun License, Vine and Vegetation
Diseases, State Children’s Relief, Arbitration—
Additional Court, Dentists, Money Lenders,
Infant Protection, Crimes (Girls Protection),
Habitual Criminals, Closer Settlement, and Law of
Conspiracy. It is evident, from a mere
perusal of this list of measures, that the House
had some good.y ideas, and therefore some
good personages. The failure was in leader-
ship. That fact was made apparent by the
different records of the Council and the Assembly.
The former party, under the guidance of Mr.
Wise and Mr. Suitor, far outstripped the
Assembly in industry. But the Assembly, under
a leadership which was riotous and reckless, with
a Speaker who exercised no real authority,
drifted from one shindy to another. It had the
capacity for good work, but in the charge of
John See and Crick and the Owe’Sullivan it
became, early in the session, a mere mob, and as 5
a mob it went into recess, pursued by the angry
remarks of the Premier, who raged in a general
way at the universe.
A S’African Anthem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They are coining—they are coming—from the
slimy Pei-ho,
Hundred thousand pig- tailed heathen—while the
meek Caucasians go ;
They are wanted by our Bosses, who admire the
Yellow Clay,
And it cheers us up—the mem’ry that our swaddies
cleared the way.
So it’s back to dear old Sydney, and it’s back to
Brisbane town,
And it’s back to Peel and Gwydir, and to Bourke
the bare and brown ;
In a crazy fit we left them for the “ green hills ”
far and gay,
Little thinking ’twas for Mongols our brave
swaddies cleared the way.
O ! —the shame—the shame and folly ! when we
come to weigh it all !
That our freemen slaughtered freemen at the
bloated magnates’ call,
That we lent a hand to bend a land to Mammon’s
ruthless sway,
And that Greed should reap the harvest where
our swaddies cleared the way.
For they told us we were “Heroes,” and they
raised the patriot cry—
“ Would ye see our Empire perish while ye thus
stand idly by ? ”
And the “ Patriots ” went and perished there on
many a bloody day,
Little wotting ’twas for Mongols that their death
had cleared the way.
And the heathen now is speeding fast across the
sund’ring wave
For the land he shall inherit where the freemen
found a grave,
For the land he shall inherit where he never
fought a fray—
Hapless land where Jim the Swaddy in his
madness made the way !
O the mills of God they grind us, if we only give
them time,
And it seems a vengeance always waits to dog
the steps of crime ;
And the men who fought for Money only noiv get
Money’s pay
When they find ’twas Money’s Mongols who were
waiting for the way !
So it’s back to dear old Sydney, and it’s bijck to
Brisbane town,
And it’s back to Peel and Gwydir, and to Bourke
the bare and brown !
In a crazy fit we left them for the “ green hills ”
far and gay,
Little thinking ’twas for Mongols that our
swaddies cleared the way !
L.


“ With total Assets standing at £78,089,283, The Mutual Life Insurance Company
of New York occupies the premier place as the largest and strongest Life Office in the World.”
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
RICHARD A. McCURDY.
President.
COMPANY OF NEW YORK.
From its Organisation in 1843 to 31st December, 1902,
It has paid to living members
To beneficiaries of deceased members
Total paid to members, living and dead
Invested for present members
Total paid to and invested for its members
Bonuses paid to policy-holders amount to
Contingent Guarantee Fund and Divisible Surplus
Total Profits to Members
£67,496,649
55,726,749
£123,223,398
78,089,284
£201,312,682
£22,005,481
13,991,627
£35,997,108
The Payments made by The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York to its Policy-holders are
far in excess of those of any other company. ...... rivu
Coin- of Ann al Report and particulars of Policies to meet every requirement, whether for LIP Hi,
ENDOWMENT, INVESTMENT, or ANNUITY, may be obtained on application. Power to issue binding
policies on select lives and pav Claims immediately upon receipt of proofs at the
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA —
MUTUAL LIFE BUILDING, Marlin Placo and Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager and Attorney.
THE BULLETIN’S Christmas Number will be
issued on December 10th, and, as already the rush
for extra cop:es has set in, early application Is
necessary to ensure supplies. It will contain the
largest and test selection of the work of the
picture, song, and story artists of Australia ever
ssueJ to the public of this continent, and with-
out it no holiday will be complete.
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. Ihe
Rosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narander.a and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. For f ur ther particulars, address—
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFFICE—
-70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
NARANDERA
or YOUNG.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal "The Fortune-Teller.”
Hbr Majesty’s "A Country Girl.”
Lyceum “ The Painted Woman."
Criterion “The Assassin.”
Palace “Miss Cleopatra.”
Tivom Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty’s “ Monsieur Beaucaire.’’
Theatre Royal “ In London Town.”
Opera House Rickards' Vaudeville Co.
4
Production of “The Serenade ” on Sacui-
day, at the Sydney Royal, left the impression that
the authors had, in their previous effort, “The
Fortune Teller,” exhausted the alluvial of their
inspiration and had to knock gold out of a hard
reef for their second effort. There is some fine
music in the “Serenade”—especially in the massed
choruses—but little that catches the ear in a per-
manent sort of way. The ear isn’t definitely
roped in, so to speak. The idea of the piece,
too, is rather thin, though it has the advan-
tage of being less complicated in plot than
“The Fortune Teller.” There are some very
humorous scenes, but the mirth rarely grows out
of the action in a natural way. It is mostly ex-
traneous mirth dragged in by the hair. With the
exception of the teaching trio in the first act—a
most laugh-atable song—the whimsicalities are
carted on to the premises of the play after the
fashion of musical comedy, and are foreign to the
subject matter. “The Serenade” will never
challenge the fame either of the Gilbert and
Sullivan creations or of the opera bouffe of the
French school, though it claims appreciation for
its many bright and musically-clever choruses and
its original fun.
* * * *
“ The Serenade ” choruses are excep-
tionally well treated by the company, though
on Saturday they lost some of their effect
through the orchestration being a shade too
high. Standing out conspicuously among the
principals is Lempriere Pring'e, whose Romero
is a most picturesque and tuneful brigand. In
“The Fortune Teller,” when previously pro-
duced in Sydney, Mr. Pringle was a little heavy :
he seemed obsessed by the grand opera tradition.
Now he has got over that, and his Romero is
played with all the brightness that comic opera
calls for. The comedy element is next
in importance, and in this Edward Lauri,
as the Duke of Santa Cruz, and Fos-
ter Courtenay, as Gomez, show with almost
equal merit. Assistance is given in this, one of
the strongest features of the “ Serenade,” by Mr.
1 lallam, as Colombo, a broken-down tenor. There
i-i, as the opera is produced here, no “serious”
t-nor part, the chief male characters being
Romero aforesaid and a baritone, Alvarado (Mr.
Piddock). The latter is the “ hero ”of the piece,
but he does not manage to make his part look
distinguished. On the feminine side the co. is
weak ; it lacks a prima donna with a voice and
vivacity. Miss Lilian Boanas has a pleasant vo'ce,
especially in low passages, but she as yet lacks the
experience and the acting ability for a leading
part in comic opera. That, indeed, is the difficulty
in such pieces as “The Serenade” and “The
Fortune Teller” —the chief singing parts demand
a higher level of voice ability than the average
comic-opera star possesses. Miss May Beatty
does very well as Yvonne, singing tunefully and
acting with arch brightness. “The Serenade”
will be withdrawn after Friday night; “ The For-
tune Teller ” will be revived on Saturday and then
Auber’s charming “ Fra Diavolo ” follows.
#* * *
“Billie” isn’t included in the cast of
characters for “The Painted Woman” at Sydney
Lyceum, and there’s no means of knowing who is
responsible for Billie. That’s an injustice, for he
is the most important feature of the piece, and
acts splendidly throughout. Billie is a snake, an
Australian snake, of large size, of great bite-
power, of mighty intellect, and of an affectionate
disposition. He is chums with “ The Painted
Woman,” who was an actress in Australia,
and who, later, marries a Scotch laird and
brings Billie to that cold country—keeping for
him, however, always a warm corner in the fire-
place. Billie cheers his lady friend when she is
miserable, bites any odd murderers or other
villains who prowl round her house after black-
mail, diamonds, safe-keys and other melodramatic
properties, and, when her husband is confined in a
fortress at Pretoria in Act IV., Billie carries a
note from him to his friends, then brings to him
through a hole in the fortress wall a revolver with
which he fights his way to freedom. How Billie
carries the revolver is not demonstrated but is left
to the imagination; possibly, having come from
Australia, he is a marsupial snake and brought it
in liia pouch.
* * *
Outside of snake Billie—whose position as
the chief hero of a melodrama opens up boundless
possibilities, such as a faithful and attached
bubonic flea who defends the heroine against the
base and brutal villain when he has her at his
mer-r-rcy at last, and a devoted gorilla who
tears up the blackmailer as if lie were blotting
paper—“ The Painted Woman” is a fairly
coherent and reasonable play with not more
than the usual amount of impossibility and
with a good deal of legitimate sensation-
alism. There are some choice assorted murders
and several marriage certificates, and, after
much misery and tribulation, in the end, happi-
ness for the good and Billie-bite for the wicked.
The various characters are well sustained. Miss
Duggan puts plenty of color and life into “The
Painted Woman,” and Robert Inman is a manly
and effective hero. Very good work in a smaller
way is done by Miss Helen Fergus, as Quita
Garcia; by George Carey, as Captain Ford; and
by Stirling Whyte, as Andrew M'Rherson. On
the shoulders of Bert Bailey falls the “comic
relief ” as Hugh Trevor, and the approving yells
of the gallery show that the shoulders are broad
enough. “ The Painted Woman ” and Billie will
hold the stage for a while yet —in fact, Billie is a
reptile who couldn’t be removed hurriedly or
superseded in an off-hand fashion. He will go
when he is ready.
* # # *
Not the least of the virtues of “Miss
Cleopatra,” at the Sydney Palace, is that the
lady doesn’t keep you much after 10. The piece
i 3 advertised as musical comedy ; the music
consists chiefly of “Oh Fairy Wand!” from
“ Maritana,” and one or two music-hall ditties
dragged in “ to liven things up a bit ”; while the
comedy consists largely of people saying “damn.”
The duet, sung by Edward Farley and Miss Lit a,
is well enough ; so, in its own way and in its own
place, is a lively coon song-and-dance contributed
by a small girl. For the rest The Bulletin
mingles a tear of sorrow with a sigh of pain and
weariness, and passes on Defore it has time to say
anything unkind. That good old Edward Farley
should resurrect under such circumstances is
indeed lamentable. The splendid veteran de-
served a different kind of luck.
m * * #
Friday night will see the last of “ A Bad
Character ” at Sydney Criterion, and, for a restful
change, “The Assassin,” something quite new to
Australia, will be staged. Charles Holloway’s
company will be further strengthened by the
addition of Miss Irby Marshall, who, having won
several bunches of flowers as an amateur, will
make her first professional appearance on Satur-
day.
# « * *
Sydney had “The Country Girl” baked,
boiled, and stewed last week to full houses at
Her Majesty’s. True, the full houses went
through the hot processes with her, and as the
roof of the theatre swings off to let sunshine
and air in, her audiences are not more than
parboiled. Mr. Roberts is now at home
in his part of Geoffrey Challoner, and
Mr. Barry gets on safely in the mild role of
Douglas Verity. The piece will apparently be
still in its heyday when the time comes to take it
off and make room for fresh fascinations. There
is always a tendency to put on something new
when the battered old Christmas festival comes
round, yet about that holiday time the blase city
population, which wants new things, is away
fishing, and the simple-minded bush inhabitant
who pervades Sydney really wants to see “East
Lynne,” or “The Scalp on the Mantelpiece,” or
something else that is simple and gory and
miserable.
* * * *
Manly, the little marine village near
Sydney, is to have a new show this month. The
entertainment consists of tobogganing, shooting
the chute, and similar thrills. Tobogganing is
falling over a precipice on a grand scale without
being injured. Shooting the chute is falling
from a balloon into the ocean without getting
wet. At least, they feel like that. Nobody
would mind falling from a six-storey house if
it weren’t for the beastly suddenness of the stop-
page ; countless ages of sudden stoppage has made
the fear of great depths an hereditary instinct. At
the same time, nobody would take permanent inter-
est in falling if it wasn’t for the stoppage. The new
entertainment eliminates the stoppage, and the
old hereditary instinct supplies the thrill, and,
because of the thrill, people supply the coppers,
and it was through a foreknowledge of these
things that the proprietary supplied the chute.
Which is demand and supply.
* * # *
J. W. Winton, who went to Europe to
fossick for new turns for Rickards’ shows, is back
in Sydney, and at the Tivoli. While Winton was
listening to song-and-dance ladies singing through
their noses at the ’alls, M'Ginty was in Paris
acquiring a French accent, and now talks the
language as fluently as Dan O’Connor. But
nothing in the new show goes so straight to the
heart of the Tiv. as Maud Faning’s coon songs;
the first night it looked as though the house were
going to insist upon her singing all of them anew.
Miss Jenny Gray had just about as good a
reception ; the Swifts, also new people, put on a
fair sketch ; and there was a duet from “Mari-
tana,” and other items too numerous to mention
made an unusually diversified bill.
# # * *
Ou the evening of Monday, 7th, the
pupils of Miss Mary Robinson will hold their
annual concert at the Centenary Hall, York-street,
Sydney. The warblers who have just been taught
to soar will be assisted by Miss Annie Perry, Miss
Joyce Brown, and Mr. Oliver Reece, and the rn aking
of good melody will commence at 8 sharp. Cer-
tificates will be distributed to the pupils by
“ Alderman T. Magney, Esq., J.P.” The art of
lifting up the voice is threatening to become one
of the natural resources of this great country.
* # * *
A monsoonal downpour which humbled
the pride of many matinee hats also damped
the spirit of a large audience at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) last Friday, when the Theatrical Fund
took the pool. The scrappy performance started
with a tragedietta, arranged on a new p’an and
seemingly translated from the French, the
author’s name being carefully omitted from the
programme, price one shilling. Scene I. showed
Julius Knight affectionately tearing himself away
from the boredom of an isolated country home in
order to drink coffee with a friend in Paris whom
he had previously rung up on the telephone. The
’phone was the connecting _ link between
tilings visible and invisible in the action
of the playlet. Husband Julius had. no
sooner left the household to its rural solitude
than a hulking intruder came upon the scene, and
the orchestra expressed the stranger’s character
by a few crow-bars of slow music. The tramp
brougli t a forged letter whereby the man-servant
was lured away, leaving madame, her 7-year-old
son, and her aged nurse alone on the premises.
Presently the barking of the watch-dogs ceased.
Ominous silence, broken by suspected sounds of
footprints on the gravel walk outside the French
windows ! Madame uneasy—nurse pale and pro-
phetic of evil —child asleep on the sofa. The
original tramp and his mate (presumably the
bloke who had poisoned the dawgs) could
be seen through the windows as Madame went
to the ’phone to inquire whether her husband
had reached his destination. He was miles away,
but she could get a sense of companionship and
moral support by ringing him up. Tableau.
Next scene shows Julius taking coffee at the
Paris domicile. A first telephone message from
his wife is merely connubial. Then comes the
awful news that burglars are at work, the husband
repeating his wife’s words as he answers them,
and shouting excited instructions into the
receiver. They couldn’t converse so rapidly
through an Australian telephone—but no
matter. A quick curtain falls on the
moment when the husband drops the receiver
and rushes like a madman from the room,
declaring that wife and child are being
murdered. One imagines the shrieks and groans
he must have heard through the tube, but
on reflection one discounts the alleged horrors of
the Incident. There was no necessity for burglars
to slaughter the inmates of that lonely country
house. Julius Knight, if not a very powerful
impersonator of the agonised husband, was un-
commonly loud —so much so that his subsequent
Romeo and Beaueaire suffered from hoarseness.
Miss Jeffries, on the other hand, Julietted (balcony
scene) in her sweetest tones, and her enunciation
was sharper than usual. All the same, it remained
for Mel. B. Spurr to shine as an artist in speech
pure and simple. A clever monologue entertainer
reminds one always of a crack bowler, who has
had to learn his business on unfavorable wickets.
*# * *
“The Eternal City” passed away from
Her Majesty’s on Saturday without much pre-
liminary warning, and “Monsieur Beaueaire”
was. unexpectedly revived. Rumor said that
“Sign of the Cross” would follow “The City.”
The wrongness of rumor as regards theatrical
matters is almost invariable nowadays.
*# * *
On the authority of Bland Holt’s adver-
tisement, which never breaks its word, these are
the last nights of “The Great Millionaire,” and
the final appearances of the fatal motor car. “In
London Town” will follow “The Millionaire”
next Saturday or a week after that.
** * *
At the Opera House, the latest addition
to the bill was not Winton, but somebody else of
less importance. At the Princess’s, the Bijou,
the Athenaeum Hall, and the Circus building,
there is nothing to be seen save desolation. The
Orpheus Society gives a concert at the Town Hall
to-night (Thursday). The gifted Una Bourne’s
piano recitals are transpiring once a week at
Glen’s concert hall, and a brass band will perform
at the Austral Wheel meeting every time it isn’t
postponed on account of the weather. When
these remarks were written, Melbourne had ceased
to take much interest in anything but Weather.
** * *
At a recent display of Marshall Hall’s
Conservatorium pupils, in Melbourne Town Hall,
the most picturesque performer was Premier
Deakin’s daughter, Miss Ivy Deakin, who took
the violin solo in one movement of a Mendelssohn
concerto. The damsel played well and grace-
fully, and her appearance drew a murmur of
approval from even the sworn adherents of rival
pupils—rich auburn hair, bright color in the
cheeks, and a pink effect of costume toned to the
complexion. Marshall Hall has some promising
young people among his students. Miss Rita
Hope, one of the youngest of the debutantes,
scored a particular success with a showy Chopin
piece on the pianoforte, and one or two of the
singers—girls in every case—had voices worth
training. But where are the young men vocalists?
They seem to study at Rickards’ Academy of
Music.
** # #
The SlapofFski v. Musgrove case disposes
of the rumor that Madame Slap., who was not
engaged in England for Musgrove’s season of
grand opera (1900-’01), received £3O a night for her
frequent services as prim a donna. The fee
actually paid was 10 guineas. When “ Mignon ”
was produced, she had a monopoly of the name
part, and appeared four or five times per week.
** * *
The present utter dearth of the drama in
Adelaide is about to be relieved by William
Anderson, who is to open with “The Shadow of
Night,” and continue till Christmas. Meanwhile
Mayor Cohen has given the public a free organ
recital in the Town Hall, and most of the local
musicians have combined to hold a Continental.
The Exhibition grounds are admirably suited to
this last kind of evening entertainment, and so is
the Adelaide climate.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Australasian Temperance and General
Mutual Like Assurance Society, Ltd. (Melbourne).
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sent Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1894.'! £38,304 £7,906 £11,987 £18,411 £170,678
1895.. 38,120 8,134 13,103 16,8831 167,646
£19,915 written off for depreciation J
1896.. 39,707 10,885 13,349 15,4/3 183,ua
1897. 42,787 11,888 15,310 15,589 ™°,708
1898.. 46,646 13,816 15,813 17,017 215,7-0
1899.. 49,777 17,245 20,033 12,499 -28,224
1900.. 53,572 19,760 25,409 8,403 236,627
1901.. 61,872 19,909 24,725 17,238 -03,860
1902.. 73,782 18,640 24,559 30,583 284,448
1903.. 73,983 19,585 28,263 26,135 310,588
This income is £2OO ahead of that of any previous year in
this department; and a still larger increase will
found in the industrial department :
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Eunda.
1894 .. £10,224 £3,342 £2494 £4,388 £38,778
1895 .. 9,592 3,301 5958 333 \ 35i 050
£4061 written off for depreciation J
Taken from
Funds.
1896 .. 9,500 4,490 7192 2,182 32.868
1897 .. 13,067 14,741 5892* 7,566 20,302
1898 .. 17,878 16,744 5680 4,546 20,756
1899 .. 24,200 20,560 6924 3,284 17,472
Added to
Funds.
1900 .. 29,104 19,839 7461 1,804 19,276
1901 .. 40,198 26,938 7724 5,536 24,812
1902 .. 53,597 35,444 8294 9,859 34,671
1903 .. 69,547 46,230 8925 14,392 49,063
On the ordinary side the expense rate has again moved
up a little, and on the industrial side it is still appalling .
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Ordinary. Industrial.
1894 .. £2O 12 10 per cent. £32 13 9 per cent.
1895 .. 21 6 9 „ 34 8 3
1896.. 27 8 3 „ 47 6 3
1897 .. 27 15 8 „ 112 16 3 „
1898 .. 29 12 4 „ 93 13 2 „
1899 .. 34 12 11 „ 84 19 2 „
1900 .. 36 17 8 „ 68 3 4 „
1901 .. 32 3 7 „ 67 0 3 „
1902 .. 25 5 3 „ 66 2 7
1903 .. 26 9 5 „ 66 9 5 „
The directors say that they “provided in their plans for
showing a further decrease in the ratio of expenses in
both departments. The staggering taxation levied upon
life offices by some Australian Parliaments has interfered
with this intention.” But if theT. and G. hadn’t to pay any
taxes or license fees at all its expenses in the ordinary
department during the year would have amounted to
£25 14s. and in the industrial department to £65 15s. In
other words, the whole “staggering taxation,” including
license fees, amounted to about 15s. per £lOO of the
ordinary' income and to about 14s. per £lOO of the
industrial income ; and a society which has once shown
an expense rate of £112165. 3d. per cent, ought not to find
14s. per cent, “staggering.” Even without the 14s. or
15s. the expense rate was far too high. In the
industrial department, of every shilling paid in, 4d. was
available for insurance, the other Bd. going in commis-
sions, charges, and various other brands of expense.
Nevertheless, it is the fact that, but for the increased
taxes, a small reduction in the expense rate in both
departments would have been shown.
The Temperance and General’s interest earn-
ings are not quite what they’ were. During the past year
or two the movement has been :
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
Ordinary. Industrial.
1900 .. £4 6 1 percent. £4 5 7 percent.
1901 .. 410 3 „ 410 2
1902 ..4 9 4 „ 492
1903 ..488 ~ 488
For the first time the earnings are the same in both
departments. The assets consis mainly of loans on mort-
gage £120,601, properties £103,726, loans on society’s
freeholds £70,884, on properties held as mortgagee in
possession £32,841, loans on policies, interests, &c.,
£61,367, and public securities £49,725. The last item has
been strengthened a good deal during the year, and it
might very wisely be still much further added to.
Bill M'Culloch, David Syme’s friend, is “blew-
ing”a big lump of his election expenses allowance in
telling the people of Victoria, per medium of along advt.,
what he proposes to do if he is elected to the Senate, and
what he thinks of things generally. It is impossible to
read the remarks of people of the M'Culloch type without
stumbling—sooner or later —on a reference to socialism ;
and the reader feels that something is wanting unless he
also comes upon a reference to “ a leading British
financier.” Bill M'Culloch is highly satisfactory in both.
Here is his screech about the financier :
“ When in England, last year, it was my privilege to
arrange for the flotation of the Victorian loan of one
million, and seeing that the Canadian 3 per cent, bonds
were quoted at £lO3, while there was a difficulty in
getting £96 10s. for our Victorian 3 per cents., I asked
some of the leading financial magnates the reason for
the difference. The reply was that, while in Canada
the Labor party had little or no power, Australia was
to a large extent ruled by the Trades Hall and
Socialists, and it was feared that at some future date
this party, getting the supreme power, might repudiate
the public liabilities. I assured them,” etc.
It would have been thought that poor old Bill would
have let his ridiculous visit to England (during which he
lost his billet in the Peacock Government, and was
being constantly cabled for to come back and to stop
representing the vanished Government) softly fade imo
oblivion. The difference between the Canadian a> d
Victorian bonds was due, so M'Culloch’s alleged and
anonymous financiers said—or M'Culloch says they said
—to the alleged fact that “ Australia was to a large
extent ruled by the Trades’ Hall and Socialists”; and
not—as outsiders might imagine—to the fact th, t.
Canada has a sinking fund attached to its loans, and
actually repaid one that fell due a few months ago.
The fact that Canada owes £lO per inhabitant, while
Victoria, thanks to Bill’s friends of the Gillies era, owes
£44 per head, is also a consideration, if Bill could on y
see it.
• * * *
The North Queensland Insurance Co.
(Sydney)
_ _. _. ~ . Added to Re-
Sept. ro ®* ;s ' Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1894.! £3,399 5 per cent. =£2672 £727 £9,835
1895.. 3,113 5 „ „ 2672 441 10,276
Loss.
1896.. 776 Nil 9,500
Profits.
1897.. 10,688 6 per cent. = 3206 7,482 16,982
1898.. 1,089 4 „ „ 2138 15,933
1899.. 4,174 5 „ „ 2672 1,502 17,435
1900.. 14,064 8 „ „ 4275 9,789 27,224
1901.. 15,291 8 „ „ 42SET 11,006 38,230
1902.. 11,629 8 „ ~ 4295 7,334 45,564
Loss.
1903.. 4,369 Nil 41,19;>
This co. does a large marine business, and when losses
come in that line they have a habit of falling heavih.
In 1903, however, the increase of losses isn't so con-
■picuoui as the falling off in premiums.


The Bulletin
Brandies—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONO v.Y IN HAULAGE. —Horse and drav is cheaper (hail a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tram way, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS. -Dog-spiltes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING.
ItST Our CATALOGUE is uov.rs for the asking. 1E&
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Paor. Ltd., 40 Hunter Sr., SYDNEL A. E. LEPL/ STRIER, Manager,
Representing Orexsteln and KorrEL, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
The Austral Otis Engineering Company of
South Melbourne were the successful tenderers for the
two new pumps required by the Melbourne and Metro-
politan Board of Works. Each of these pumps weighs
about 60 tons, and the contract is of some magnitude.
The Austral Otis Company were successful in their tender
for similar pump ends some time ago, and their experience
will enable them to rapidy turn out the work. Five out
of the six pumps that handle Melbourne’s sewerage will
have been turned out of this foundry, who also built the
majority of the motive power plants operating the
Melbourne Tramways.*
* * * *
The Australian Financial Gazette and
Insurance Chronicle, Melbourne, 20th June, 1903: “ When
it is considered that the Society is under virile, bold, but
prudent management, these results, while not surprising,
must be highly gratifying to all concerned. We have no
hesitation in congratulating the management on the
excellent results of the year’s work.*
* * * *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
• * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
00., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
• • * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson's
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
• • • •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-sfc., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * * *
H. Brandon Skertohly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (memoer, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * • *
E. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
* * * *
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
At Southern Cross a good deal of activity pre-
vails, but none of the mines are being worked on a lug
enough scale to provide much employment. At Norse-
man the Cumberland mill should soon 'make a start, and
prove whether the propeity is worth anything or not.
The Princess Royal is to have a change of management.
The life of the mine will be short, as the chute is expected
to pass into the Central at 600 ft. It will take the co. all
its time to repay its nominal capital. Neither the North
nor South has much hope, as neither has any chance
of getting the Princess chute ; it starts in the Princess
and underlays into the Central. The Central is a gamble,
and cannot be a producing mine much, if anything,
under two years.
The Bulletin
SUN
H IG HE.ST
QUALITY
The Bulletin
BRAND
SOLD
VERYWHERE.
By Special Appointment to His Majesty King Edward VII,
Bottled at Celebrated
Malvern Springs,
England.
Premium Rein-
Income Losses surances Expenses
1899 .. £115,227 £83,868 £59,977 £20,818
1900 .. 151,567 ' 44,053 76,257 20,529
1901 .. 160,770 48,848 76,862 24,046
1902 .. 158,007 66,729 69,821 24,228
1903 .. 138,461 66,604 62,137 27,520
The losses thus amounted to 41 per cent, of the gross
premium income during the year, as against an average
of 31 per cent, for the preceding four years. But this
was not wholly responsible for the very large difference
between the loss for the year and the fine profits of the
previous year or two. The general expenses in the
last year reached £2O 12s. per cent, of the premiums;
in 1902 they were only £l5 6s. per cent. Com-
pared with some other expense rates, even
£2O 12s. per cent, is not high; but £l5 6s. is
a good bit lower—on the past year’s business the differ-
ence in the two rates means something like £7425. Still
the small loss made during the year doesn’t affect the
co. ’g strength and solidity. In the previous three years
no less than £28,129 had been added to the reserves,
enough to cover the present loss almost sevenfold. And
the assets are mainly solid public securities or fixed
deposits ; the income from interest, &c., during the year
was of itself equal to over 6 per cent, on the paid capital
of £53,750.
* * * *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land, and
Building Co. (Sydney)
Written Added to Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. off. Reserves, serves.
1894 ..£1822 Nil £lOOO £822 £8,446
1895 .. 3209'. Nil 3557 8,098
1896 .. 6854 10 p.c. =£3200 769 2885 10,983
Forfeited Capital Carried to Reserves 1781 12,764
1897 ~ 6123 10 p.c. = 3295 1000 1828 14,592
1898 .. 4916 8| „,, 2785 2131 16,723
Forfeited Capital Carried to Reserves 512 17,235
1899 .. 4235 7p.c.= 2325 1910 19,145
Forfeited Capital Carried to Reserves 16 19,161
1900 .. 4392 7 p.c. = 2339 2053 21,214
1901 .. 4911 7 „ „ 2448 2463 23,677
1902 .. 5261 7 „ „ 2537 2724 26,401
1903 .. 5900 7 i „ „ 2762 3138 29,539
The reserves consist of reserve fund £21,500, dividend
equalisation account £3500, forfeited capital £2310, and
undivided profit £2229, two of which items, the second
and the third, ought to go into the first. Payment of
dividends out of reserves is objectionable at any time,
and to call reserves a “dividend equalisation account"
doesn’t make such payments any less objectionable—it
only encourages directors who feel that way to do the
objectionable thing, and makes it easier for them to
more or less disguise for a while the fact that a
concern is on the down-grade. And this particular co.,
instead of being on the down-grade, is one of the
most flourishing of Australian land cos. Its
capital is £36,974, and the profits on this were
for the year equal to very nearly' 16 per cent., or about 2
per cent, more than they were in the previous year on
that year’s capital. The whole of the shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) earned £9 ss. percent,
there is a slight improvement also in the character of the
assets ; 12 months ago, with £11,637 held on deposit, the
C ?' onn wor * c i n S' on a cash balance of £9 and an overdraft
of £2014, the rest of the assets being mortgages and
freeholds. Now it has credit balances of £2795.
* ♦ * •
In the dying moments of the session of the
Parliament, and when the House was busy with
the question of preferential trade, Premier Seddon
brought in his Bill to settle the relations between the
Bank of New Zealand and the State, and carried it
through with an ease which probably surprised even
himself. The thing is fixed now, and it isn't much use
talking ; pretty well all that need be said by way of com-
ment is that Seddon might have done worse, and he cer-
tainly might have done better. When, first in 1893, and
a p*n m 1895, the bank was unable to keep on its feet,
the State was practically compelled to prop it up, which
theGovernmen t did by f urnishi ng the concern with £500,000
cash and a guarantee of £2,000,000. It was provided that
the preference shares issued co the Government might be
bought back at par within six years, and this right was
subsequently asserted, which left the Government with
n ° *p e l res k except as a guarantor. By an Amending Act
of 98 the control of the bank was, nevertheless, vested in
a hoard of six, four of whom were appointed by the
Government and two by the shareholders. What is now
settled is, briefly, that the £2,000,000 guarantee is
k° £1,000,000, current for 10 years, while the
£ooo,ooo worth of shares, formerly issued and
bought back, are again to be sold to the State.
When the bank bought back the preference shares
it paid the money to the Public Trustee; the
latter lent the money to the Government, which
lodged short-dated debentures (subsequently converted
into long-dated stock) as security. These securities will
now be taken as payment by the bank, the Government
undertaking to make good any discount at which they
may be sold. - '
* * * *
The ordinary shares have carried a reserve lia-
bility of £3 6s. Bd. per share ; this amount the State, as
guarantor, has had power to call up at any time from the
shareholders, and in that event the amount would not
rank for dividend. This latter provision is now swept
away. The preference shares are to carry a preferential
a per cent, dividend; out of any further available
profits they are, after the ordinary shares have
had 5 per cent., to get J per cent, for every
per cent, payable on the ordinary shares. In other
words, the preference shares take the first 5 percent.;
then the ordinaries take 5 per cent. ; after that the
balance is divided so that the ordinaries draw 1 per cent,
to the preference shares’ i per cent. When the prefer-
ence get 7 per cent, the ordinaries will get 9, and so on.
But the preferences cannot draw more than 10 per cent.
leznn aaa? • 156,000 ordinary shares, on which £3 6s. Bd.
(En 00,000) is supposed to have been paid ; as a matter of
fact, on March 31st last, only £429,688 had been paid, and
0n1y'£423,590 ranked for dividend, representing shares on
which the full £3 6s. Bd. had been paid. Last year’s pro-
fit was £290,591. If that were divisible, on the
foregoing basis the State would get the maximum £50,000
(10 per cent.), and there would be over 50 per cent, for
° rdlllar y shareholders. A 10 per cent, dividend for
the State, which involves a 15 per cent, dividend for the
ordinary shares, will, when the whole of the ordinary
shares are paid to £3 6s. Bd., require £125,000 a year. If
Af?^ er ® s * should be called up, it would require
4*200,(.00. The (State’s) preference shares are not to carry
any voting power ; but, as the existing management i 3
not interfered with (that is to say, as under the’9B Act
four of the six directors are appointed by the Govern-
ment), this is not so serious a matter as it sounds at first.
In fact, it isn’t serious at all. The bank will, in March
n xt, have to pay off the £2,000,000 which it raised on
tie . State guarantee. It will do this, apparently', by
n latmg another State-guaranteed 4 per cent, loan of
£1,000,000 having a 10 years’ currency, by using the
£; >OO,OOO which will be paid by the Government for the
shares, and by taking the balance from its cash reserves.
When the State had to go to the bank’s aid all
the doubtful assets were given over to a Realisation
i “iii anc * -^' s body is to continue its work until it
snail be certified that the liabilities do not exceed the
remaining assets; until then, after paying interest on
tne guaranteed stock, £50,000 is to be'paid out of the
hank s profits to the board ; after that a 5 per cent,
dividend all round ; and any residue is. to go to the Assets
Board ; and even after the disappearance of the board the
profits are to be applied to the repurchase of the
uebentures issued by the board.
So an Australasian Government goes into
ordinary banking business for the first time. In one way
It has been in the business for nearly 10 years, but so far
only to carry the responsibilities, while being denied the
profits. Now it gets the profits, and that it didn’t
demand a bigger share of them the other partners in the
business whioh it saved may think themselves very lucky.
* * * *
The English, Scottish, and Australian
Bank, to June 30th:
Profits on
Net Repurchase
Business of Dividends, etc. Reserves
Profits Deposits
(8 per cent, paid on Deferred Inscribed Deposit Stock.)
1897 ..£10,870 £10,870
1898 .. 6,034 £29,175 Written off=£B,Bl6 37,263
1899 .. 15,411 21,032 „ „ 6,582 67,124
(4J per cent, paid on Deferred Inscribed Deposit Stock.)
1900.. 38,465 8,678 2J p.c. = 13,486 100,781
1901 .. 41,907 579 „ „ 18,880 124,387
1902 .. 49,329 4,929 4 „ „ 21,578 157,067
1903 .. 40,806 1,828 4 „ „ 21,578 178,123
The profits represent £5 17s. 2d. per cent, per annum on
the paid capital (£539,437) and reserves as at the
commencement of the year, compared with £7 Bs. 7d.
per cent, for the previous year. The reserves consist
of reserve fund £91,904, capital reserve account (being
the profit made by buying back the bank’s own
perpetual stock) £68,805, £7193 set apart for more
purchases of that stock, and undivided balance, £10,221.
Deposits at interest on June 30, 1902, amounted to
£950,246; on June 30, 1903, £1,093,043 -increase,
£142,797. Deposits not bearing interest in 1902 were
£1,155,980; in 1903, £1,226,986 increase, £71,006.
Advances, etc., fell from • £4,163,923 to £3,977,820, a
decrease of £186,103 ; and cash and money at short call
rose from £821,228 to £983,833, which represented about
39 per cent, of the liabilities to the public other than
those covered by the scheme of reconstruction.. In
addition, the bank has £lOO,OOO of Government securities.
* * * *
The progress made by the E.S. and A. Bank
in redeeming its reconstructed deposits is shown here-
under ;
Reconstructed Paid off
Deposits. during year.
Jane, 1895 £3,932,667
„ 1896 3,845,350 £87,317
„ 1897 3,384,694 460,656
„ 1898 3,267,149 117,545
„ 1899 3,218,490 48,659
„ 1900 3,176,074 42,416
„ 1901 2,941,659 234,415
„ 1902 2,906,379 35,280
„ 1903 2,790,924 115,455
In eight years the old liability has been reduced by
£1,141,743, or very nearly 30 per cent, of the original
whole.
» * * *
F. H. Snow having got no further forward, after
two long years’ waiting, with his Adelaide electric-tram
farce, he isn’t likely to do anything now, when his option
of purchase expires in a month’s time. The deluded
tram cos. are now anxious to amalgamate, and start the
electrification business on their own. They “ anticipate
no difficulty in getting the rights or funds,” but, seeing
how hcly Adelaide fell in badly once by trusting to good
old “ private enterprise,” it should have enough sense, if
another referendum happens over the matter, to see to
it that “ private enterprise ” aforesaid doesn’t get a show
to muddle things for another few years. It should
forcibly and unmistakably intimate to the City Council
that it, and no other, is to do the electrification business.
• * * *
The Bank of New South Wales
Added to
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
Sept., 1898 £88,042 9 p.c. = £87,750 £292 £1,217,235
Mar., 1899 88,738 9 ~ „ 87,750 988 1,218,223
Sept., 1899 89,544 9 „ „ 87,750 1,794 1,220,017
Mar., 1900 99,859 9 „ ~ 90,000 9,859 1,229,876
New share premiums added to reserves 46,404 1,276,280
Sept., 1900 100,463 10 „ ~ 100,000 463 1,276,743
Mar., 1901 100,153 10 „ „ 100,000 153 1,276,896
Sept., 1901 104,647 10 „ ~ 100,000 4,647 1,281,543
Mar., 1902 115,507 10 „ „ 100,000 15,507 1,297,050
Sept., 1902 118,229 10 „ ~100,000 18,229 1,315,279
Mar., 1903 115,793 10 „ „ 100,000 15,793 1,331,072
Sept., 1903 117,370 10 „ ~ 100,000 17,370 1,348,442
This was one of the few banks that did not raise their
interest rate on deposits until October Ist, and the bal-
ance-sheet shows some of the consequences. On Sept.
30th the deposits were nearly half-a-million less than at
the corresponding date in 1902, while, as there had been
a larger demand for advances, owing partly to the im-
proved harvest prospects and partly, no doubt, to the
difficulties which follow the stoppage of the influx of
loan moneys, the cash balances were very considerably
reduced. The whole position compares with that dis-
closed last year :
In-
Sept., 1902. Sept., 1903. creases.
Bills Payable, &c. .. £2,469,376 £2,527,900 £58,524
Advances and Bills Dis-
counted .. .. 19,795,364 20,360,798 565,434
On Short Call in London 200,000 300,000 100,000
Premises.. .. .. 655,000 680,000 25,000
Deposits 21,069,810 20,628,463 441,347
Notes in Circulation .. , 950,370 928,227 22,143
Due by Other Banks .. 104,987 75,403 29,584
Public Securities .. 1,737,089 1,736,356 733
Advances to Govts. .. 117,660 117,660
Coin, &c. (including
notes of other banks) 5,302,460 4,388,762 913,698
On the shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of
the half-year (£2,000,000 capital and £1,331,072 reserves)
the profit was equal to £7 os. lid. per cent, per annum,
which compares with recent results in this way :
Sept., 1900.. £6 3 8 p.c. Sept., 1902..£7 3 5 p.c.
March, 1901.. 6 2 3 „ March, 1903.. 619 9 „
Sept., 1901.. 6 7 9 „ Sept., 1903.. 7 011 „
March, 1902.. 7 010 „
Coin, bullion, and notes of other banks still represent
£2O 7s. 2d. of the total liabilities to the public, while
including public securities and money at short call the
proportion is £29 7s. per cent.
* » * *
Melbourne faces Summer with a change in the
beer outlook. For years the city has been over-breweried,
breweries having been established on the basis of the
boom, when everybody got an overdraft and then drank
the manager’s health, and his own health, and the health
of everybody he could think of. The Carlton, with a
paid capital of £26,744, has accumulated a deficit of
£322,893 ; and, though it, in its last year, made a
profit of £21,443, all had to go into the sink.
The Castlemaine, with a capital of £125,000, cleared only
£1421 ; and M’Cracken’s profit on £286,824 was £6716.
All of these and the others have now agreed on a pool,
fixing the minimum price of beer at £3 2s. 6d. per hogs-
head, an average increase of 7s. 6d.; and bottled stuff is
to go up to ss. 3d. a dozen—it now runs from 4s. 6d. to
ss. The tied house is, however, left out of the arrange-
ment ; the philanthropic brewer will continue to supply
E remises of that sort at the same loss as hitherto. The
reweries don’t think Bung need charge the public any
more for its pint; they cheerfully suggest (at the end of
November of all times in the year) that Bung should put
a bigger head on it—fill up, in short, with froth instead
of beer. There is talk, of course, of a co-operative
brewery, to be run on the lines of the Walkerville, owned
hv the Adelaide Bungs ; but a co-operative brewery,
selling at the old prices, wouldn’t be likely to co-op. long.
The belated report of Mabshall’s Paddington
Brewery, Ltd., of Sydney (it isn’t The Bulletin’s fault
that it is belated)
Added to Nominal
July. Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1896 £6,024
1897 ..£3533 C per cent. = £l7Bl £1752 7,770
1898 .. 3052 6 „ ~ 1781 1871 9,647
1899 .. 6147 6 „ „ 1781 3360 13,013
1900 .. 5958 0 „ „ 1789 4169 17,182^
1901 .. 5976 6 „ „ 1782 4194 21,376
1902 .. 4561 6 „ „ 1782 2779 24,155
1903 .. 3354 0 „ ~ 1828 1526 25,681
The paid capital is now £31,250, as against £29,701 twelve
months previously. On the former amount, together
with nominal reserves as at the commencement of the
year, the profit was equal to £6 Is. per cent. The
reserves are described as nominal because goodwill is
still reckoned as an asset, though for how much it is
impossible to say, buildings, beer-barrels, and other
things being mixed up with it, according to the common
but none the less highly objectionable practice of brewery
co.’s. The co.’s. turn-over increased during the year,
but a larger provision than usual was made for bad and
doubtful debts, and current expenses were also higher.
The weak point in the situation is the rapid increase in
“ Sundry debtors,” which may mean a steady increase in
bad and doubtful debts. The progress in this respect is
shown hereunder:—
_ Sundry Credit Bank
Turn over. Debtors. Balance.
1897 .. £36,047 £11,097 £2871
1898 .. 32,876 16,201 1730
1899 .. 33,759 18,811 1196
1900 .. (not available)
' Overdraft.
1901 .. 37,694 26,751 2325
1902 .. 42,663 30,606 2883
1903 .. 45,965 32,593 3265
The increase in amounts owing is out of all proportion to
the increase in the turnover, and suggests that the
writings-off are not liberal enough, and that a portion of
the profits may prove to be merely irrecoverable debts.
In that case the reserves are, to a still further extent,
unreal.
* * * *
The Swan Bbkweby Co., Ltd. (Perth and
Melbourne)
Added
Net Written to Re-
Profits. Dividends, off. Re- serves.
serves.
Sept., 1898 £13,171 Nil £3297 £9,874 £41,997
Mar., 1899 17,709 12 p.c. =£4,565 8984 4,160 46,157
Sept., 1899 9,762 16 „ „ 6,087 4717 45,115
Mar., 1900 15,971 16 „ „ 6,087 3517 6,367 51,482
Sept., 1900 16,861 20 ~ ~ 7,609 2579 6,673 58,165
Mar., 1901 17,031 20 „ ~ 7,609 1547 7,875 66,030
Sept., 1901 15,092 24 „ „ 9,131 1345 4,616 70,646
Mar., 1902 20,483 24 „ ~ 9,131 554 10,798 81,444
Sept., 1902 15,144 24 „ „ 9,131 617 5,396 86,840
Mar., 1903 23,660 32 „ ~ 12,174 308 11,178 98,018
Sept., 1903 14,740 24 „ ~12,155 264 2,321) 102 6U
Premium on new share issue 2,275 / ’
The paid capital is now £101,236, in 81,032 shares of 255.
each, less £54 owing for calls. The reserves consist of
reserve fund £50,000, leasehold liability, guarantee, and
trade account £37,269, new share premiums £2275, and
undivided profit £13,071. The whole of the reserves are
used in the business, which also now, notwithstanding
the new issue of capital, carries a bank overdraft of
£15,534, in addition to £12,000 of mortgages. Of the
entire assets (£252,006), £103,472 is represented by hotel
properties at cost, less £5OO written off at 31st March,
1896. Six months ago freehold hotels, which cost
£107,165, showed writings-off of £2176. Presumably the
only buildings which have been written down since 1896 have
been sold in the six months; but neither balance-sheet
nor report makes the position clear. All that looks clear
is that properties which cost £103,973 have been written
down only £5OO altogether, and nothing at all during the
past 7£ years. Brewery lands and buildings (£57,298)
have also remained untouched for the same period ; but
the plant, which cost £51,946, now stands in the books
at only £29,612. In progressive Perth, where the increase
in ground values may counterbalance the depreciation,
all this may be the correct thing; but it wouldn’t be in
any other city in Australia, and it isn’t likely to continue
so even in Perth,
» * * *
Broken Hill Block 14, which between 1896 and
1901 made a gross profit of about £165,000, and then
began to show a loss, is still “ resting,’’ waiting for some-
thing to turn up. It is 18 months since the co. left off
struggling against a weak metal market; in the last half-
year that it went full speed ahead it dropped over
£13,000. In the past half-year, attempting nothing
outside zinc-making experiments and the maintenance of
the mine and plant in good order, it spent £2844, in
addition to the cost of the new zinc works. The latter
are apparently not to run away with much money; to the
end of the half-year (September 30) they had cost £2946.
The co.’s financial position, chiefly owing to the failure of
preference shares (only 48,843 of the total of 100,000 were
taken), is weak. It has current debts amounting to
£7678, while its total liquid assets amount to £6003, of
which £696 is cash.
* * * •
Broken Hill Block 10 Co.:
Ore Value.
treated. , ■-*- ■ Divi-
Tons. Silver. Lead. Profit, dends.
Mar., 1900 69,183 15'140z. 16'16 p.c. £46,752 £45,000
Sept., 1900 72,246 14‘56 „ 1423 „ 51,747 45,000
Mar., 1901 77,651 14‘58 „ 1532 „ 22,811 46,000
Loss.
Sept., 1901 81,852 14 83 „ 14-47 „ 129 5,000
Profit.
Mar., 1902 42,847 14'7 „ 15 31 „ 5,386 Nil.
Sept., 1902 42,825 16'44 „ 17'89 „ 720 Nil.
Mar., 1903 50,279 14 01 „ 16-13 „ 1,509 Nil.
Loss.
Sept., 1903 49,778 14-54,, 16'39 „ 2,100 Nil.
More attention has been paid during the half-year to the
erection of new plant than to the profitable operation of
the old patched, ricketty mill, etc. This has made a big
hole in the co.’s reserves. Six months ago the po.’s surplus
of liquid assets over liabilities was £50,290; it is now
£21,487, and there are still heavy commitments to be
{(rovided for. The future depends mainly upon the
mprovement in the recovery of metals—and on the
metal markets, of course. These figures show the
margin that there is to work upon in recovery :
Lead Silver
Metal Contents of Ore .. 81,600 tons 723,600 oz.
Metal Recovered .. .. 49,778 ~ 279,515 ~
Unrecovered .. .. 31,822 tons 444,085 oz.
And that is independent altogether of the zinc. Many
of the foregoing figures, by the way, have had to be
computed: this co. doesn’t give the precise information
that it used lo do.
The outlook for working men on the W.A.
goldfields is becoming more gloomy every day, and the
number of unemployed wandering around Kalgoorlie is
steadily increasing. It is not uncommon to come across
half-a-dozen out-of-work mine managers mooning about
Hannan-street of a morning. This is not to be wondered
at, as an enormous number of “shvpoo” shows have
recently been permanently abandoned, and very few
fresh ventures started. The position of the outside
districts is deplorable. Of the large number of mines
floated near Laverton only the Oraigiemore, Lancefiekl
and Ida 11, survive, and not one of them has a sure future.
Mertondale is practically dead. Muhvaree, Mulline and
Davyhurst are looking sick, and the last-named, if water
is not soon available, will become a deserted village,
as no gold is being produced by any mine there.
Menzies relies chiefly on the Lady Shenton and Queens-
land Menzies, the only div. payers. The former is
practically worked out, and the latter is in a very
unsatisfactory condition, owing to the directors dividing
the profits up to the hilt instead of pushing on develop-
ments. This is an old story.
* » ♦ *
Niagara and Mt. Malcolm don’t own a profit-
earning mine between them, and most of the shows
{Tk«n up some months ago are now deserted. Kookynie
is practically dependent on the Cosmopolitan ; Leonora
on the Sons of Gwalia ; and Mt. Morgans on the mine of
the same name. Bardoc, Broad Arrow and Paddington
haven't got a decent mine among them. Those poor
apologies for mines, the Zoroastrian, Half Mile Reef,
Golden Arrow and Paddington Consols, are mere depen-
dents on Bull’s charity, and when that charity ends so
will the mines. The Consols is now only sinking the
main shaft on contract. Bulonghas no mine paying wages
since the closing down of the Queen Margaret, which
was preceded by that of the Central and the South.
Kanowna has long lived on the Wh : te Feather
Main Reefs, which is looking very dicky at its lowest
level. White Feather Reward, Kanowna Consols, Last
Chance and Atlas have all closed down, and, except the
last named, are unlikely to re-start.
* * * *
Coolgardie hasn’t got a gold mine within cooee
of it. Bayleys is producing no gold. Bayleys Consols is
to be auctioned. Flagstaff is closed down, and its
fossilised 20-head, originally erected on the Big Blow, is
going to the Greenmount at Southern Cross. Lady Loch
has petered out, and Perseverance is a mere parody of a
gold mine. Bonnievale is keeping up its end fairly ; but
Kunanalling is dead since the petering out of the Premier.
Burbanks is gloomy over the poor prospects ahead of the
Birthday Gift. At Day Dawn, outside the Great Fingali
Consols, very little is being done. South Fingali and
Great Fingali Southern Blocks have proved frosts, as well
as Cue Gold Mining and Exploration Co. The latter co.
erected 20 head, bought from the Ivanhoe, on its Kin-
sella lease, and then fired out all hands, having no ore to
treat. Murchison Associated is making a big splash, but
that may foreshadow its sixth reconstruction. At Lake
Austen, the Island Eureka has belied the optimistic pro-
phecies of its sponsors ; while the North and South of that
ilk have so far done nothing. Golconda has shut down,
and added its quota to the unemployed.
(Continued on page SO.)


DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
The Bulletin
DJ. Orient” Boot
BLACK OR TAN
CALF,
16j 6
Narrow or
Round Toes,
special]
VALUE J
16/6
George & Barrack-sts., Sydney
>1
The Bulletin
For a Present I For the Holidays! For All Time!
SIMPLE TO OPERATE.
No Previous Knowledge Required,
The “Crackshot” Camera—Price 7/6. A genuine little instrument that will take Portraits,
Groups, Views and Snapshots, size of picture 3J x 2£in. ; Rapid Lens, 3 Stops, 2 View-Finders, Time and
Instantaneous Shutter, Magazine to carry 6 plates. Book of Simple Instructions Free with Camera. Postage in
N.S.W., Od. ; other States and N.Z., 1/2.
“ Premo V” Price 25/-. An excellent, well-built Camera for taking Portraits, Groups, Views and
Instantaneous Pictures, size 4| x 3|in. ; fitted with fine Achromatic Lens, Stops, Timeand Instantaneous Shutter.
2 View Finders, with double Plate Holder, and Book of Simple Instructions. Postage inN.S.W., 9d. : other
States and N.Z., 1/2.
The “ Victor Price 30/-. The most popular Camera in Australasia. For taking Portraits, Groups,
Views, Instantaneous Pictures—everything and anything-size of Photograph A\ x 3^in. Fitted with Fine
Achromatic Lens, 2 View Finders, Time and Instantaneous Shutter, 4 Diaphragms, Magazine carrying 12 plates,
with Automatic Changing Arrangement to take 12 Photos, in as many seconds when required. With Book of
Simple Instructions. Postage in N.S.W., 1/2 ; other States and N.Z., 2/6.
Cameras from ss. to £5O.
Illustrated Catalogue Free.
HARRINGTON
Ltd.
Co.
66 KING ST., SYDNEY, and
93 QUEEN 8T. f BRISBANE
Society
barbarian
slid
[?]ky
“ -Adelaide ” : Have just read with amaze-
ment that Y ietorian Leg. Council has thrown out
by 15 to 10, a proposal to open Melbourne Public
Library and Art Gallery on Sunday afternoons.
Smd amazement comes in, not at the action of
that body (which is just what one might expect),
but at finding that Melbourne has not had them
open long ago Here in Adelaide we are often
accused of Sabbatarianism and over-much piety of
the wrong sort, but we have bad our pictures
and our books available on Sunday to their
owners, the public, ever since 1870.
DOUBTFUL SYMPATHY.
PIONEER: “Fes, it is pretty quiet out our way; why sometimes mine is the only white face my
wife sees for weeks.” SUBURBS: “ Good heavens, how horrible ”
The shocking narrowness and selfishness
of the Salvarmy are shown up by the retirement
of Bruntnell, lately its chief in N.S.W. Brunt-
nell, believing that politics could do something in
the matter of drunkenness, proposed to speak in
aid of the Temperance Alliance, and was peremp-
torily forbidden by wire. Then lie said he
couldn’t give up his citizen rights like that, and
resigued. The fact is that, besides being one of
the greatest sweaters in the country, the Sal-
vanny is about the worst cadger, and won’t come
out openly even against Bung for fear of losing
thruppence in the cadging box.
Vul. ; There is wild talk of a gorgeous
blow-out in celebration of the opening of the
Gladstone to Rockhampton (Q.) line this month.
1 lie idea is that the connection of Gladstone with
Rockhampton will make the line from Longreach
r? " nabane > Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
Uodnadatta or Broken Hill, “one of the longest
in the world,” and, therefore, it should be opened
with a loud bang. The only drawback against
the bang idea is that this 4000-mile line isn’t a
line in the ordinary sense of the term. A Queens-
land engine couldn’t get past the N.S.W. border
“ it tried ; the N.S.W. engine would meet with a
sudden, violent end if it even tried to go half-a-
mile into Victoria; and if Victoria’s worn-out
engine, even supposing that it didn’t lie down for
repairs on the way, tried to get much past Adelaide,
it would be stopped by the break of gauge, even if
it wasn’t stolen by the Crow-eaters. It’s mere
foolishness to call Australia’s half-a-dozen discon-
nected railway systems a “line.”
* * * *
“Spring”: The gloom which weighed
down the last session nights of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment was relieved by one little touch of comedy,
in which “ Larry ” Harnett played chief part. To
the public, the genial Sergeant-at-Arins seems to
be held in awe by the members; they appear to
shun and neglect him, and he never seems to slap
anyone on the back. He sits enthroned under an
electric light away in the hot emptiness of the
back benches. No monarch expecting an ultima-
tum from an adjacent emperor could be more
lonesome and retired. He was sitting there as
usual, one night, when a messenger rushed up and
whispered that a courier from the mighty Council
waited without and claimed admittance. The
Sergeant pulled down his quaint vest and rushed
to the Assembly Clerk, and the two went bowing
to the side door. A gentleman, dressed in an
apron or a skirt, or some similar girly garment,
came m, carrying something in his arms in a way
T5-n Ch mu ggeste d a bai V> b °t which was, in fact, a
Bill. The stranger gave an awe-stricken bow, and
the others almost licked the dusty carpet. Gently
rocking the baby-Bill in his arms, the Sairey Gamp
persem pointed out with mid wifely pride that it
ba ~ n ® ees eyes and showed distinct traces of
Afflecks amendment. Fervently hoping that it
would never have a bald head like Hatter
.Storey s, he consigned the infant Bill with
motherly care to the arms of the glad Clerk, who
carried it safely to a cradle-box near the Speaker.
Sairey Gamp gathered his frock around him,
made a prodigious bow, and backed away. The
Sergeant bowed stupendously in return, and
followed. They posed like two rams about to
hgjht. Every second, as they bowed to each
°« ,e r! r ' was ' n danger of being butted
off the premises. They steered out safely, how-
ever and, it is presumed, wet the baby’s head ;
, r Larry, some time afterwards, steamed in
wiping his forehead, and sat heavily on his throne
like a monarch who had just conferred the bless-
ings of representative institutions upon his people.
“L. : The announcement of Lord North-
cote s benevolent intentions towards his future
subjects in Australia recalls a story of Lady
Jersey. When she first came to N.S.W. a great
crowd assembled at Albury railway station to see
the new Governor’s wife. Lady Jersey made a
speech to the people, in the course of which she
was good enough to assure them that her husband
would “rule over them kindly and justly.” A
vulgar person in the crowd was heard to remark,
“ Don’t you fret yourself, old girl. ’E ain’t going
to rule over us.” Most governors seem to come
b ® r G with a fixed idea that they are going to
rule’ over somebody. One raw Westralian
potentate, in a speech made before be left
England, announced that he was going, first thing,
to see that the goldfields got a good wale: supply.
Unluckily he hadn’t the powers he imagined, so
YVestralia lost the spectacle of his Ex. struggling
with a bucket of water from Southern Cross to
Coolgardie.
“Tl/Vritrs
about) one of
Kent’s legacies :
A uain leaves
Spencei , ire it sta-
tion (Melbourne)
every Sunday
night. It con-
sists of a long
string of empty
trucks and a pas-
senger car. This
train leaves emp-
ties at all stations
along the North-
east line, ready
for Monday morn-
ing. T’other Sun-
day a start was
made from Spen-
cer-street just
before the last
suburban train
had gone through.
Four miles out
there was a mighty
crack and a hissing
as of Mont Pelee.
Bent’s engine
stopped ; the end
had blown out of
the cylinder. The
driver, fireman,
and we seven un-
fortunate passen-
gers got down,
and, with a nine-
man curse, tried to
equal the best
efforts of Thomas.
The engine, just
when our language
was most lurid,
gave one convul-
sive groan and set-
tled down. Bent
was in bed, and so
were all other
engines. We were
one mile from
Essendon, and had
50 miles to go.
The last suburban
train was behind
us, bound for
Broad meadows.
It came along pre-
sently, whistled,
then stopped to
look at the dere-
lict. The driver,
fireman, and
guard, with a
fresh contingent of
71 passengers,
came up. The
n e w driver also
suggested a com-
bined and mighty
curse. The tw o
drivers in the lead,
with two firemen,
two guards, and 78
passengers, gave
one thunderous
and earth-shaking
curse. The poor
derelict’s carcase,
which was still
warm, trembled slightly but gave no other sign ot life.
The driver of the passenger train unhooked his engine,
pushed the whole train of empty trucks and the dead
engine to the Essendon siding, went back cursing, and,
after an hour and a quarter’s delay, brought up his 71
cursing passengers. Word was sent to Spencer-street
yards, but all engines were housed and no steam was up.
The driver and fireman secured the suburban passenger
engine (it looked hollow-backed and weary), and sagged
away to Spencer-street for a fresh engine. They got
steam up and returned to take on the seven passengers,
the empty trucks and milk-cans, and we started from
Essendon at 3 a.m. instead of 10 p.m., getting to Seymour
five hours late. In the grey of morning we would drop a
passenger here and there, and he would curse Bent on
the platform and then start for his home, and the other
passengers would put their heads out of the window and
curse Bent. It was a great function.
* * * *
The decision of the Irvine Government to
economise by keeping policemen on duty till the
ago of 05 (the agreement was that they should be
pensioned off at 60, but the Irvine Government of
repudiators wants to save five years’pension off
each man so as to avoid taxing the rich land-
lords of Melbourne) hasn’t had time to show its
•evil results yet, but if the policy lasts for five
years Melbourne will become a laughing-stock.
Its streets will be perambulated by white-bearded
and spectacled Grandfather Cops, who will hold
up an ear-trumpet when they think they hear a
row in the distance, and scratch their bald be-
wildered old heads in search of their lost wits when
asked the way to the next street. The Melbourne
policeman of the future will be too old for rough
work, and will have to appeal to the better
feelings of the Push (which hasn’t any better
feelings) with a placard on his chest and the
inscription “Don’tK iclc the Aged ! ”
* * * *
There were some mysterious letters in the
Maoriland Coningham case, too, and a witness
for the defence who couldn’t be found. Con-
ingham produced copies of letters which he said
he had written to the M.L. manager of the co. for
which he was working—letters reflecting pretty
badly on the co. and the business. The manager
denied that he had ever got them, and denounced
them as concoctions prepared for the trial. But
for this, it looked as though the one-time festive
bowler would have got the benefit of the Proba-
tioners Act.
EVE.
HE : “ What have you decided to wear at the Sniff sons' hall
SHE: “I’ ve decided on absolutely nothing so far.”
Recently a young married resident of
Bacchus Marsh (Vic.) bought the ground from
which the old local Baptist Church had been
removed, proposing to erect a private residence for
himself. Then he secured at a bargain price,
merely for the sake of the bricks, an old deserted
Presbyterian Church in the neighborhood, and the
prospect presented itself of his having quite a
holy habitation. Next he proceeded to pull down
the old structure, and, not being an expert
demolisher, a wall fell on him and killed him.
He had been a pious and prominent local
Salvationist, and suffered the penalty of mixing
his religions too much.
* * * ♦
The J.P. business is humorous at times.
In a recent case in Queensland a publican was
hauled up before an unbiassed and independent
Bench, consisting of two of his relatives and his
own barman.
* * * *
No better plea for the National cause at
the Federal elections could be formulated than
The Bulletin’s Special Election broadsheet
Number, published Dec. 5th. Price, One Penny.
Order at once. By post, l£.d in stamps.
"HOP’S” RETURN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
hv theT T n E B[ ' IJjKTTN - is a passenger from Europe
im.. -iK S' 1 M "**“ S”«
They brought nine bands and set them down
Along the busy Quay ;
They said, “ Now play until you drown
Whatever noise may be—
The roaring trains, the ’busmen’s ‘ damns I ’
The murmur of the sea ! ”
They brought a cloth of goid-and-red
And laid it on the wharf;
The loungers and the lumpers said,
That don’t look bad by ’arf !
Oo s cornin’, mate, in this ’ere state—
I s’pose some bloomin’ torf ? ”
They got the Maj or and Council, too
They got the R.A.A. ;
They got an old-man kangaroo,
They got a hig bouquet ;
They got Bruce Smith, and the Office Myth—
The Boy from Manly Bay.
The Quay was packed from edge to edge—
The trams all had to stop ;
Flags waved from everj’ window-ledge,
And air-balls went off “ pop ! ”,
And every lip said : “ Where’s the ship
That’s bringing back our ‘ Hop.’?”
At last they saw her round the bend ;
They set up a ** Hooray ! ”
They saw a well-remembered friend
A big slouch hat of grey—
The\* gu e one shout—- the bands burst out
“ Oar ‘ Hop’s ’ Come Home To-day ! ”
VIC.
O. C. C.
BY PROXY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Good-bye, sweetheart,” he said to me,
His hand upon the rein,
“ Good-bye, till we together see
The poppies bloom again.”
Three times (as in a tearful dream
I watched the seasons pass),
Alone, I saw the poppies gleam
Above the waving grass.
Now, when again the summer-thine
Has flecked the land with red.
The little hand I hold in mine
Enchains me to the dead,
I spread bright blossoms on my knee
And sigh with softened pain,
For eyes akin to his now see
The poppies bloom again.
VIC.
F.B.


By special appointment to his Excellency the
Governor General, T. Wild, gentlemen’s hair-
dresser, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the arcade
that runs from George-street to King-street.
(Hours 8.30a.m. until 6.30 p.m., Wednesdays 1,
Saturd i.vs 9 o’clock).*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Beach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
MSI
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
Helpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Unvarying
in
Quality.
“ W.” : The Bulletin (19/11/’O3) makes
a slight error in stating that the street named
after Waring Taylor in Wellington (M.L.) has
had anew appellation since W.T. was found
guilty of straying from the straight path some
years ago. The street still perpetuates his name,
and brings him back to the loving memory
i)f those he cleaned out in the windy city—at least
it did when I left there three months ago.
BALM.
SOCIETY MATRON : “ George , dear, I’m so pleased;
the deaths of our Percy, and young Reginald
Symington are the only ones advertised
to-day. It’s so objectionable to have one’s
family notices sandwiched between those of
quite common people, you know.”
Said that, but for the profits Sydney daily
newspapers make out of selling returns and waste
copies for the use of butchers, ttiere would have
been, long ago, a Board of Health regulation
against the dirty practice of wrapping up meat in
old newspapers.
* * * *
Parson W. T. Rollings told the Baptist
Union of Victoria some very unpleasant things at
its annual session. He charged the average parson
with looking too much after his own money inte-
rests. Speaking on the question of the Bible in
State schools, Mr. Rollings stated that if there was
a fee of 10s. hanging to Scripture lessons in the
State schools there would be any number of
parsons who would take advantage of the present
provisions of the law and give lessons after school
hours. When asked to withdraw these remarks,
Mr. Rollings refused to do so, adding, “I will go
further, and say that some parsons will tout for
the undertaker to notify them when there is a
death of a lunatic in an asylum, so that they can
get the fee.” Of course, this raised a dreadful
howl. No one less likes to have the truth told
about him than the average parson. It spoils his
wicket. Parsons rose up all round Mr. Rollings to
say that Rollings was a stranger to the truth, and
the place began to sound like an alarm of fire in
Sheol when the door had got jammed.
Husband-hunting mothers who accept th e
possession of a motor car as clear proof that th e
young man has an income of at least £5OOO a year>
may take warning from the affidavit of the
particular young man who alleged some time ago
that he was ruslied or clubbed into matrimony in
Sydney. His wife pointed to the motor as proof
that he was quite able to supply her with the means
to defend his suit for nullity of marriage ; to which
he replied that it was quite true he had a motor car,
or rather bicycle, but ne only got it for the purpose
of working up interest in his tooth-pulling
business what time he was earing £l5O or less a
year. But, apparently, it didn’t work up much
interest, because he says that his earnings never
rose to such a giddy height as to make him liable
for income-tax. The Bulletin would like to
suggest, if it isn’t derision of court, that when a
not very affluent dentist is ordered to find security,
and can’t find security, the judge might take it
out in having his teeth attended to, or the litigant
might supply a gold-stopping for the Master in
Lethargy. This should make things comfortable
all round, besides improving the appearance of
the Master in Lethargy.
* * ♦ *
A small boy fishing in the Yarra lately
was interested in a pair of boots that came down
stream, soles upwards, and floated steadily out
seawards. Investigation showed the boots were
attached to a dead man, who was himself
attached by the neck to a stone weighing 701 b.
Yet the average baby-farmer, or other body-
concealer, usually puts the corpse in a bag with
a half-brick and a rusty nail, and expects it to
stop down to all eternity.
* * * *
The cable-crammer pulleth our leg too
obviously with this :
The Daily Telegraph states that an offer has been re-
ceived from 100,000 Jews used to navvy work to go to
South Africa and work in the mines for a wage of £2 per
month, with board and lodging.
One hundred thousand Jews working? The
Hebrew Hod-Carriers’ Association arrived ? Im-
possible !
* * * *
“ Hiphen ” : It looks very much as if Mel-
bourne’s new semi-Scotch Gaud Mayor were
trying to wipe his nose on the thistle. Passed bis
office in Coliins-street this week and saw floating
above it two flags. One was the Japanese standard,
and beneath that, from the self-same staff, the
pride o’Scautland sulkily flapped. This may be
all right, for I don’t understand heraldry or
flaggery; but I do know that 1 should most cer-
tainly have pushed a half-brick through his office
window had I not been too tired. It is, indeed,
fortunate for S’Malkum that I had to rise as early
as 9 a.m. that morning, and, naturally, was feeling
somewhat exhausted.
* * * *
“T.D.”: At a Melbourne Guvment’ouse
garden party the other day, I derived much
pleasant entertainment from
watching the scramble of
about 1000 women for
half that number of
plates of strawberries
and cream ; also the
whole-souled efforts of
six city councillors to
transmit the contents
of three bottles of
, whisky into their in-
k ternal economies.
The councillors
looked very much
as though they
could afford a
“ bob in and the
winner shouts,”
but perhaps ap-
pearances were de-
ceptive. Some of
the haughty dames
who hustled and
raved and shrieked
for strawberries and
cream could have
raised the price of
several tons of that
fare by pawning a
bangle or brooch
that would never
have been missed
from their over-
powering display of trinketry, and it would
have saved them getting the hems ripped
off their plumage, and acquiring premature
wrinkles through rage at seeing the other cat -get
a plate of fruit first.'
* * * *
Two stud donkeys, bought in Spain by
Mortlock, S.A. squatter and ex-M.P., have just
reached Adelaide in perfect condition, and are to
be used for mule-breeding in the interior. They
stand about 14.3, and one of them brings a reputa-
tion as champion in the Grand Fair of Cordova.
* * * *
Of the 150 engine-drivers and firemen who
were dismissed after the collapse of the Victorian
railway strike, eight only remain in Victoria.
Over 80 left for S’Africa; Westralia takes 25 ;
N.S.W. about 20 ; M.L. and Tasmania take the
remainder. Vic. railway locomotive department
position now is sad. The average railway ex-
perience of the dismissed men was from 15 to 16
years on the footplate. The biggest harvest
Victoria has ever seen is approaching ; the extra
trains required will be run by the “loyalist”
firemen who have about four months’ running
experience (four years as a fireman is ordinarily
necessary before getting a driver’s certificate).
The officers of the Vic. railway department will
have to rely upon the services of inexperienced
men (many of them cannot fire the engine, let
alone drive it) to work the heaviest traffic yet seen
in Victoria.
» * * »
The unspeakable Carlton (Vic.) bench of
honorariums again reverts to its infamous habit
of gaoling the aged poor. An old woman of 80,
whose only crime was the lack of means of sup-
port, was lately given 12 months without the
option. And nobody noticed anything unusual
or irregular about the proceeding.
“ T. D.” :
The first essen-
tial of a jour-
neyman gospel-
monger is to cul-
tivate a drawl
peculiar to his
sect. Was
greatly struck
during the re-
cent Congrega-
tional and
Anglican con-
ferences in
Melbourne by
the dissimilar-
ity of speaking
methods in the
two bodies, and
since then have
been making
further observa-
tio n s. The
Congregational
drawl is a sleek
and oily one ;
the Methodist a
lean “ tinny ”
sound; the
Anglican distri-
butes a great
deal of “liaw”
through his eon-
versation, and says
“rayther” and “naice”;
the Scotchbyterian talks with the ordinary
Hielan’ rasp, but seldom gets off more than
fifty words a minute. As for the Dill-Morans,
there are many varieties —seculars, Vincentians,
Passionists, Redemptorists, etc.—and each kind
goes in for some special method of talking.
The Redemptorist thunders like the bad bari-
tone of grand opera, and the Passionist
always talks in a mild, sad monotone. Sat
the other day in the next train compartment
to Dr. Bevan and a Congregationalist brother,
and the two spoke so much alike that I had to
peer over the partition to make sure that Bevan
wasn’t talking to himself.
* * * *
F.C.” about a tent-dwelling sect :
Meandered round the Seventh Day Adventists’ camp at
Royal Park (Melbourne), t’other day. The 400 campers-
out are a pleasing, harmless sort of crowd, dwelling for a
week or so in nice, new tents carefully erected in regular
rows. One of the tents is a kitchen where a strictly vege-
tarian diet is cooked, each family taking its meals in its
own canvas domicile. Menu is mostly porridge, fruit,
vegetable soups, beans, raisins, rice, brown bread, bis-
cuits, and caramel cereal. Meat, sugar, tea, coffee, and
all bottled liquids—teetotal as well as spirituous—are
strictly taboo. Also smoking is anathema. The tents,
18ft. by 12ft., are nicely furnished—lace curtains, chests of
drawers, and such-like luxuries abound —while a couple
of beds, easily visible to the casual stranger, are partitioned
off at the rear. I couldn’t discover anything specially
conducive to morality in thus dwelling on grass for a
space and planting one’s bed on the bare soil where the
bull-ant may investigate, and in hanging out the
week’s washing coram publico, but if the Adventists will
go next year and camp in the bush for a month with the
tents a quarter-mile apart, I will promise to join in. I
am moved thereto by a close inspection of the tent-
dwellers who worship at frequent intervals from 6 a.m.
to 9.30 p.m., and were engaged in a testimony meeting
when I called. As with most religions, the adherents
muster about three women to one man, and while the
men seem to be chiefly hen-pecked persons of the counter-
jumping persuasion, the women are mostly buxom young
wenches of full habit, and a strangely large proportion of
them are red-headed. There is a wire fence round the
camp, and at 9.30 the gate is fastened and the camp retires,
while certain robust elders perambulate the ground to
slay ribald outside youths of an inquisitive turn of mind.
This is why I reckon the Adventists should camp in the
bush—there would be more scope for the ribald youth of
an inquisitive turn of mind.
* * * »
It has come at last. A Melbourne man
has been robbed in a ’bus of his priceless Panama
hat. Two men followed the wearer of a stylish
Panama into an omnibus in one of the suburbs,
waited their chance, hit him under the ear, and,
while he was admiring the great orange stars
created by the blow, made off vvitli his tile, valued
at three guineas. Seeing the number of Panama
hats worn now, and the poor physique of the
wearers as a general rule, it is a marvel that the
hat-snatching industry has been neglected so long.
* * * »
Having decided on Chinese labor for the
Rand, the Jewburgers are now face to face with
the usual problem, which a newspaper corres-
pondent delicately expresses:—
Chinese women of a certain class it would be advisable
to have in the compounds if our innate British prudery
and hypocrisy did not prevent it.
And, probably, John Bull will have to sink his
“innate prudery and hypocrisy” and import
Chinese harlots, too, if the Jewburgers say so.
* * * *
The new regulation in connection with the
right of speech in Sydney Domain, by which
“ spouters ” will have to obtain the permission of
the police before they can “spout,” is likely to
provoke some unpleasantness. The man who gets
permission will be suspected of having got round
the police with gifts of beer, and the roan who
doesn’t get it will stand in the crowd and mutter
darkly that he, at all events, wouldn’t "buy the
right to speak by pandering to the vicious passions
of a corrupt “ bluebottle.”
* * * *
Melbourne city councillors got up, t’other
day, to forcibly protest against the lavish expendi-
ture of Malcolm M'Eacharn while in the Mayoral
chair. Their just grievance was that Malcolm, in
greatly exceeding his annual allowance of £l5OO
for entertaining, would seriously embarrass any
poorer man who might succeed him, as the latter
would be unable to keep up the pace set by his
bloated predecessor. M'Eacharn opined that he
was quite within his rights in spending what he
pleased, but said that, while he would in future
keep as near his official allowance as he could, if
the aldermen pressed the matter, he would feel bound
to dispone in some other way of the amount he saved
thereby. Well, there’s the stone-broke Melbourne
Hospital gaping for as much surplus cash as
M'Eacharn likes to part with, but perhaps useful
and unostentatious charity of that kind isn’t what
Malcolm means.
A DOMESTIC SCENE.
Several New York journals reckon they have
dropped on a Royal romance. Princess Victoria,
the unmarried daughter of Edward VII., is said
to he in love with Austen Chamberlain, who
returns her affections. One paper pictures the
Princess on her knees, imploring Edward VII.
to consent to the union, while her father clasps
his brow in perplexity.
The appointment of F. Farnell, M.L.A.,
at £5OO a year as chairman of N.S.W. Fisheries
Commission, shows again the hollowness of the
boast that entrance to the Public Service cannot
be achieved by political influence. The elaborate
series of regulations solemnly administered, the
three £lOOO a year P.S.B. Commissioners, their
well-paid expert examiners, their advisory boards,
and their well-equipped department, are pain-
fully and correctly applied when a ganger or care-
taker or office messenger is appointed. One well-
informed person proves that he is not over 40.
Another careful official sees that he insures his
life. An expert in these things looks him up and
down, tests nis life’s record, notes how he parts
his hair, and expresses approval or disapproval of
his general appearance and front teeth. Then if
everyone is quite satisfied that every precaution
has been taken, the successful candidate is
appointed, say, at £9O a year, on probation for
six months. But the political billet-hunter
secures his £4OO or £5OO billet without a semblance
of regard for the sacred 1001 regulations of the
Board, and he isn’t even inspected for stringhalt.
• * • •
“ Drouin ” writes :
Your par. (Bulletin 19/11/’O3) re child beating is unfair.
A 12-year-old “ school ” girl is not always reliable in her
tales. This child in court, under cross-examination,
made similar charges of stock-whips, etc., against her
previous employer—evidently a sort of mania. Lilian
Murray admitted poker (one accidental blow) and teapot
(not a throw) incidents. Nothing further was attempted
to be proved. The untrained 12-year-old girl is rapidly
becoming a type in Australia, as a yearly growing list of
innocent sufferers can testify.
Granting that the poker srnote the child by acci-
dent, and the teapot hit her of its own accord,
there is still the medical evidence to be explained
away. Body covered with bruises, nose knocked
in, large scar on forehead, and a broken bone in
the wrist. An accidental poker and teapot
couldn’t do all that lot. By tne way, what does
“ Drouin ” mean by “innocent sufferers”? The
able-bodied victims who bang “ untrained girls ”
into a state of subjection ?
A SALEABLE ARTICLE.
IKEY : “ Who are yer goin' to give your vote
to, Mo?"
MO (in astonishment): “ Give it! Give it! Vat
do yer take me for?”
A STATE JESTER.
[FO R THE BULLETIN.]
Edwin Arnold, writing in London Daily Telegraph,
says it would be a good thing if every country had its
own Minister of Amusement.
There was an era glad
When, loafing round his throne,
Each first-class monarch had
A jester of his own.
A rogue in motley drest
(Yes-No to advertise)—
Half-fool, half-knave, whose jest
Half truth was, and half lies.
The custom was not bad,
However much abused,
For in this vale so sad
’Tis good to be amused.
The public now is king,
And needs its jester too —
A man to dance and sing
When everything is blue.
The circus may grow dull
Though clown to clown succeed—
Our cup of mirth is full
While we have G. H. Reid.
Some kings unto some few
Jesters threw purses free—
But unto ours we threw
Keys of a Treasury.
To that occasion fine
He rose—no chance he missed—
He was the Genuine
Whole-hearted Humorist.
Yet States may sober grow—
Soda to rum succeed—
And so we had to throw
Out on his ear—George Reid.
Now Edwin Arnold made
A fine suggestion. We
Are ready now to trade—
Delivered F. 0.8.—
To any State who’ll take,
And sign in white-and-black,
The King of Farce and Fake,
And will not send him back.
N.S.W.
C.R.


/WA
A 1
WAITER ! ! I
BOTTLE
VALAZE Russian Skin Food eradicates
freckles, wrinkles, sunburn, sallowness, acne pimples,
all blemishes. Guaranteed to improve the worst skin in
one month. Price 3s 6d and 6s, postage 6d. Miss Nellie
Stewart writes : “ Valaze has made a marvellous differ-
ence in my complexion ; cannot praise it enough ”
Helena Rubinstein & Co , 243 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
The Bulletin, on Dec. 6th, publishes
a special election broadsheet number —a plea for
a White Australia, a White Tariff, and Religious
toleration—full of telling illustrations. Price,
One Penny ; discount for wholesale orders. Send
in your orders at once. By post, ljd. in stamps.
The Freetrade dailies of Sydney overdo
their booming of the Dry Dog person. At every
meeting at which the man who is afraid to prac-
tise his own fiscal creed calls for a show of hands
in favor of either the Deakin Government or
Protection, the response is always either six or
three. Sydney Telegraph makes it three and
the S.M. Herald makes it six. The Herald’s
generosity will prove its ruin yet.
The latest news, as this issue goes to press,
is that the N.S.W. revenue for November was
£120,153 less than that for November, 1902. Also,
John Norton has fired off a revolver in the peace-
ful streets of Mackay (Q.). A cordial manufac-
turer at Tungamah (Vic.) has lived half-an-hour
after being sawn in tvvo by a circular saw. Another
act of foolishness is, it is said, to be committed by
the appointment of a N.S.W. Royal Commission
to take evidence at great and dreary length about
the bogus Machine Shearers’ Union. Also, George
Turner says he isn't going to spend a £5 note on
his election.
Laote. —lf you are stout you don’t require it;
it you are thin, you do. No one can afford to
become thin and lined. Lacte plumps the faoe,
neck, arms, and bust. If you wish to look grace-
ful send Bs. 2d. to Guest’s, 229 Bourke-street,
Melb., for Lacte (and postage). Advice free.
Sydney agents : Mrs. Rogers, 54 Strand Arcade,
and Miss Cuthbert, 11 Viotoria Arcade.*
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
9
§>v
“CRAV'EI'IETTES*
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS.
The
:
<Sew
gtjs
+ eclipse
all others •
»
Be sure
ta .geh hhe
RIGHT w.
fyery Corset is branded inside on band
The Bulletin
tMJ-4
* % *
PD.
Refuse oil others'
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 1, 1903.
My Dear Ajiini,—
Summer fell on us last week. It didn’t grow as
do law-abiding seasons in other countries—it just
plumped down like a vast blanket dipped in boil-
ing water. It might have stepped incautiously
on a skylight and fallen through. Persons who
were not taking hot poultices started mountain-
wards or made arrangements for infesting Maori-
land. I soared to Blackheath for a space, and
cooled my eyes looking over the Kanimbla Valley.
One hour it seems a seascape, another a land-
scape, the next it is shut from sight as a great
mist mantles it. Brides and grooms—persons
who think they’ve invented matrimony—are great
patronisers of the motor-cars which now run from
the Ivanhoe Hotel at Blackheath to the Jenolan
Caves. You go in the morning, are cave-dwellers
for a night, and get back to the hotel what time
the evening star rises (if it isn't too much broken
up through late hours) on the second day.
Mr. Mark Foy’s sanatorium, on 16 acres at
Medlow, still some three or four months from
completion, ought to give a lift to an already
uplifted site. It has a quarter of a mile frontage—
Norman, Swiss, Byzantine and other architecture
-to the station, the backage looks over one of the
finest views of its kind in the planet—a valley
flowing with milk and honey and chickens and
other farm produce which cannot be utilised
because of the time and labor it would cost to fetch
them up. A colossal elevator is to be run from the
highest point of the cliff to the valley so that the
milk may be brought up and you may have a peril-
ous slide down. The sanatorium will not take in
infectious cases of sickness. In fact, it caters as
pmch for the well as for those who have nerves or
insomnia, or rheumatism. All sores of baths—
sun-baths, mud-baths, electric-light baths, water
baths will be there. The doctor is already on the
spot. A pupil of the great Koch, he has had
charge of a similar sanatorium in Switzerland.
He has an English wife, and speaks Australian
perfectly. There are over a hundred bedrooms in
the building, and a theatre, a ballroom, a billiard-
room ; and, if the garden glades and “sunlit coves
of peace ” produce the usual romantic effect, Mr.
Foy will have to add a chronic wedding breakfast
to the sanatorium outfit. The manager from
Scott’s Hotel (of Melbourne) will conduct the
spec., which has already run its promoter into
some £50,000.
Clem Hill, the well-known cricketer, is reported
to be engaged to a Launceston lady—young,
pretty, dainty, and rich.
In a letter to a friend Eva Mylott says that
Marchesi is training her voice mezzo soprano-
wards. Statement sounds curious. Eva’s voice
was a deep contralto. It is time N.S.YV.
produced a singer worth boasting of. Look
at the Victorian aviary (true, some of them are
dead-birds, or has-beens, but they were there) :
Melba, Crossley, Nellie Stewart, Florence Young,
Amy Castles, Violet Varley, Flora Graupner,
Carrie Moore, May Pollard, Ida Osborne, Frances
Adler, Rosa Bird, Frances Saville, and Lalla
Miranda. Perhaps the Mylott and Blackston
voices will cyanide out preciously.
Professor Peterson and teacher Thomson
from Melbourne have made a raid on Tas-
manian youngsters with music in their
souls, and captured a lot by the cakes
and lollies of scholarships. The Associated
Board of the R.A. and R.C. of Music had been
holding annual exams, under the wing of the
Tasmanian University, but the ’Varsity and the
Board had a row, and the office was given to the
Peterson-Thomson people. The convents rushed
the exams, with budding Goddards and Kettens.
In the Port Cygnet “centre,” every candidate
that passed was from a convent. At Launceston
Mr. Thomson had a funny experience. A little girl
came in to be examined. She first made a curt-
sey, and then said she hoped he had a pleasant
trip across from Melbourne. She went, and
another little girl came and did and said exactly
the same. I hat miss left, and another came and
ditto. When the series was at an end, Thomson
uprose and went outside to one of the com-mit-tee.
“Which convent,” said he, “are those girls from ?”
“Oh, there’s only the wan convent in the town,”
said the com-mit-tee man; “it’s over therebeyant
at the Church o’ th’ Apostles.” The wily Scot
had smelt how the land lay.
Two young women started out on a night last
week to hear Mr. J. B. Dailey, their political
choice, speak at Mortimer’s Hotel, Double Bay.
They were not sure where Double Bay began, let
alone where the hotel was located. So they got
off the tram a mile-and-a*half too soon,
and, after some vain excursions, stumbled
into an official’s quarters (what brand of
official does not matter), and one began:
“Can you kindly tell me where Mortimer’s
Hotel is—Mr. Dailey is speak ” Swift cams
the curt interruption, “I cannot tell you, madam.”
A junior official present was also vainly appealed
to, but lie gave his negative hesitatingly. A
pause. Then the spokeswoman, turning to the
senior man and holding up a little silk bag (con-
taining a hanky, a powder-puff, three letters,
two jujubes, a penny and an old nail), said,
“We’ve got a bag of rancid eggs here for
that Dailey—it’s such a pity to waste them !
Don’t you think you could direct us to where he’s
speaking?” The official smiled. He could and
did direct after affecting sudden remembrance of
what he had pretended to have forgotten. You
can always appeal to the sporting instinct of the
Australian by mentioning over-ripe eggs.
Harold Thorley’s renunciation of his part in
'* The Country Girl,” and of his Australian
engagement at the same time, did not cause
much surprise in theatrical ruts. His intellectual
outfit is a very nervous one, and his physique
anything but robust. He had to give up or
permanently break down. But his return to dear
old Inkland must be a great joy to his wife, a
good-looking body in the chorus, who was never
weary of expressing her dissatisfaction with
“ this atrocious country.”
Sydneysider “Willie” Beattie took Thorley’s
role, Geoffrey Challoner, in “ Country Girl ” for a
week and treated it with considerable artistio
feeling. Now the light baritone Roberts has the
part—the music having been transposed to suit
him.
Some ancient Australian names cropped out at
a Braidwood wedding on Nov. 14, when Mr.
Claude Manning, a great-grandson of Mr. J. E.
Manning, who was appointed Registrar of N.S. W.
Supreme Court in 1829, was married to Miss Elsie
Coombe Fell, the eldest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. W. L. Fell, of Braidwood. Amongst the
bridesmaids and trainbearers were two children,
Helen and Roland Hassall, descendants of Roland
Hassall, who was amongst the missionaries sent
to Tahiti in 1796, but who left the island with his
colleagues by reason of the threatening attitude
of the natives. Mr. Hassall (and the others) came
to Sydney and settled at Parramatta, where he
obtained a Government appointment, and died in
1820.
Miss Cornelia May - Little’s first platform
appearance in Sydney was a success in every
way. The American girl’s contralto does the
Boston conservatoire, where it was trained, great
credit. She is an artistic performer, and chose
quite new and dainty songs, English, French, and
German. She got great applause and many
flowers. The five-shilling part of the house was
crowded—scarcely any deadheads either. Misses
Mildred Coffee and Brandon-Usher, and Messrs.
Staell and Sykes assisted.
The latest Q. aspirant for Senatorial honors is
a somewhat amusing dame known locally as
“Lady” Barrett. Her ladyship has drawn
crowded houses, as the Brisbaneite dearly loves a
free show. How dead and how completely
buried are the days of chivalry may be gathered
from the fact that eggs and “garden truck,” as
the Americans put it, have been aimed at the
candidate.
Great excitement in a wide Sydney circle about
the sly marriage of the musical daughter of an
ecclesiastic to a youth of 17 years. Girl’s parents
have got her corralled at home, and as both
bride and groom are under age the marriage may
possibly be annulled.
Concerning the news about bonuses paid to
doctors by the Prussian Government for reviving
cases of suspended animation, thus averting many
premature burials. Is it not likely that there are
premature burials in Australia ? Germany hasn’t
a monopoly of catalepsy, and in U.S. A. an average
of one case a week is reported. A number of
well-attested cases are given in. Hudson’s
“Law of Psychic Phenomena,” recently
published. Suspended animation may last
from a few hours to many months. It
is a sleep of the objective senses, and is
generally a recuperative agent. In all probability
the ancient belief in vampirism had its origin in
discovered cases of suspended animation. The
sweet souls of long ago used to “ lay the vampire ”
by driving a stake through his heart—whereat,
according to an old chronicle, “he uttered a
frightful shriek as if he were alive.” Awhile ago
a Sydney woman told me, proudly, that her two-
year-old child, who had been buried some three
months before, “was as fresh-lookin’ and
as good-complected (complexioned) in his
coffin as ever he was before he took the
convulshings.” Since reading Hudson’s book
I’ve had a shuddery feeling that that child
was alive. There is no absolute proof of deadness
save decomposition. In the case of the infant
above-mentioned, a very young doctor had certi-
fied that it was well and truly dead, and that
was all. Hudson tells of a case in which a young
lady came to life after 14 days of suspended anima-
tion, yet six experienced doctors had pronounced
her a true corpse. She is still living. By all
means let us save ourselves from a premature
daisy-quilt. Perhaps Mrs. Nellie Martel will
rouse the Senate on the matter—when she gets
there.
A charwoman acquaintance of mine is a bitter
opponent of any increase in the birth-rate. She
herself has had 18 children, of whom 12 are
living. Yet, though close upon 70 years of age,
she has still to toil at washing and scrubbing and
“doing” for the two 125.-a-week lodgers who
occupy the two front rooms of her rented cottage.
All her progeny (most are married) are generally
in good situations, but they never give her a
penny. When idle they go home and loaf on her.
Some months ago the wife of one son died leaving
two small children. Their father planted them
down'in granny’s cottage, then promptly dis-
appeared, and has not been heard of since.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“It looked as though Gov.-General Tennyson
were going to escape some of the polite obligations
that the genial and ever agreeable Hopetoun fell in
for from Society grovellers. But no. The W. J.
T. Clarkes stepped in, and the Tennyson patron-
age was besought for the christening of an infant
cherub. He granted his sponsorship and the mug
of tradition, but sent aide Nevill as pioxv for
the actual ceremony. The W. J. T. Clarkes (they
are always credited with their three initials) can
now crow over the rest of society in securing a
Gov.-Gen. for their baby’s earthly patron.
N.S.W. Premier John See will probably be
envious.
“ Lady Tennyson told a school rally the other
day tha* she loved boys, that she had gloried in a
childhood which boasted a numerous set of
brothers, and that she was (she firmly believed)
more like a grown-up sister than a mother to her
own three little chaps.
“Lady Silverlocks received considerable fare-
well lumber, mostly in the book and flower line.
She was just such a cultured, gentle soul that one
gives snow-drops and other spirituelle blossoms to,
or such of the poets as Coventry Patmore, Morris,
and Mrs. Browning—perhaps even Adelaide
Proctor.
“The doors of ‘ Cloyne’ were opened with
a fanfare of trumpets just before the skipping off
of the Clarkes, for a select, a highly select,
muster of fashionables. The Waxcellency and
his critical dame are adepts at sifting the social
sand. If the Clarkes on the night of this
farewell had any mind for it, they might have
felt the reproach of such nice discrimination.
Everyone in any way handy or respectable with
the fiddle strings, or paint-brush, got a show at
‘Stonington.’ The Clarkes weren’t what you
call ‘nasty particular.’ But Mrs. Waxcellency
draws the line very carefully.
“ Countess Darnley at this affair spoilt a costly
white satin garb, much hung in Limerick lace»
by a startling garland of bright red cherries. In
the first place a berthe of fruit doesn’t look well on
the bust, and in the second place, cherries cluster
—they don’t snail along like a Virginian tendril.
Diamonds gleamed about the fruit vicinity and
upon the bronze head of this cheerful titled one.
The Cliveden dowager has charge of the Countess,
and her plumage grows the richer for the responsi-
bility. But the Countess Darnley’s careless
attitude distinctly says, ‘Go on just the same—
I’m all right. Don’t let me be a bother.’
“ Chubby aide Browning walked off to foreign
parts as soon as the Clarkes had steamed beyond
the Heads. This bland and' beautiful young
cherub has elected to shake a free leg in Japan
before returning to the profession of arms at ’Ome.
It was, perhaps, merely a coincidence that a smart
Toorak party tripped it Japan wards by the same
boat. Until January, Private Secretary Fitz-
patrick will stay at his ‘Stonington ’ post, doing
decorative and useful services to the Waxcellency.
Early in 1904 Gov. Clarke cables out word of his
work and his expected movements. Mr. Fitz-
patrick may then either betake himself off to
Fogtown to play factotum to his old chief, or
remain to prove the one lean exception on the
Madden staff.
“It was quite appropriate that a few society
girls should find it expedient to set off for the Big
Smoke what time the V.R. Clarkes were bent
that way. Miss Elaine Moles worth (daughter of
the sporty judge who wears his square boxer a-tilt)
and Miss Hilda Cumming tripped off by the
Orontes. When Melba and Miss Mignonette
Clarke boarded their liner, early this year, several
smart girls went simultaneously on a trip. You
see, it gives a voyageuse such a pull along to have
fellow-passengers of the Melba type or prominent
official people. Board-ship, friendships are
quickly clinched. Then, the Big Smoke reached,
all goes swimmingly, and the smart girl arrives in
every sense of the word.
“ The most decorative of the smai’t syrens who
sold programmes, etc., at the Theatrical Chari-
ties’ matinee, were the Misses Alison Fairbairn,
Frankie Oliver and Landale, representing very
different types of beauty. The first-named, a
dainty, demure blonde, not long out of the school-
room, is unassertive in dress and deportment, and
so far makes no conscious bid for admiration.
Miss Oliver, tall, dark-haired and ivory-skinned,
shows a more pronounced, dashing individuality ;
such stuff as beauty-actresses are made of. The
Landale sisters, that blue-eyed picture-pair, blend
Parisian chic and early-Vietorian millinery with
much success.
“The matinee group was headed by the
sleek-haired, white-vested Gov.-General, who is
really fond of theatre-going. In his time, he has
taken_ part in many a discussion re dramatic
situations, etc., in connection with his father’s
plays, and, as he says himself, a peep into the
works is apt to make a toy more interesting.
Lady Tennyson’s matinee appearance suffered (as
most of her appearances do) from a hard hat,
pressed down over her forehead, the absence
of any softening coiffure device, and a sad-
colored gown of constricted cut. The owner
of a tall, slight figure, correct gait and neat
features, the Tennyson dame could be a beauty if
she cared to. Commandant Hutton’s liege-lady
wore springlike hat, all pink roses and forget-me-
nots,'while the Chief-Justicess was gay with red
roses atop. The latter’s youngest child, in curls
and white muslin, sat quietly in another corner of
the d.O; with a companion, and set a good example
to other bread-and-butter Misses, who are apt to
skip about theatres, giggle, and gormandise
sweets, like half-baked soubrettes.
“ Justice Holroyd is such a meek, gentle and
humble soul that we all feel sorry that he is now
a Knight of the same rank as Matthew—well, I
needn’t mention names. There’s no better-witted
or erudite old datne in the State, too, than Mrs.
Holroyd. When she sails into a drawing-room
the eyes of the learned follow her to her favorite
cane chair. She talks in almost any tongue you
please on any subject you please, and always the
Attic salt for flavor.
“Senate candidate Vida Goldstein got home
neatly on a questioner at one of her meetings.
He asked if she was in favor of a tax on bachelors.
“I’ve been asked that question at every one of
my meetings,’’ said Vida, composedly, “and I
would say here that I am not; but (impressive
pause) I would certainly do much to prevent some
men getting married.”
“G. -G. Tennyson having given a cheque for
£lOO to the Melbourne Hospital, the committee
straightway made the noble lord, his lady, and
his three small sons hon. life governors !
“All Toorak is now taking a weekly Turkish
scrub and—saving your presence—sweat, in imita-
tion of the actress to whom so many social holo-
causts are offered up. That mummer boasts the
smooth ivory skin of the highest perfection
(it being now bourgeois to boast a bloom),
and society learning that a Turkish bath is
a Wednesday morning practice of hers, the thing
becomes the rage. For diversion commend me to
the slabbed femininity of the hot-air room. The
rheumatic rub continually the afflicted parts ; the
fleshy lie still in the most steaming quarter of the
apartment; the complexion cultivators lounge in
an attitude of ease, their eyes closed, their minds
at rest, luxuriating in the sense of the benefits
about to be received. The large-chested, short-
winded habitues of the baths gossip continually,
give hints to the new-comers and get no end of
fun out of the whole performance.
“The Rev. George Robinson has returned from
Ireland more corpulent than when he left. He’s
now ‘the full of a door.’ Besides building a
church for the Camberwell faithful, he has a
dozen other schemes on hand —designed to aid
and edify the community. Up-to-date shivoos
are going to help him raise a substantial sum for
the grand edifice proposed at Camberwell and
other charities. What a fine advance-agent was
lost in this gentle shepherd.
“The hot weather, or some such reason, has
caused Melbourne to burst into a perfect fever of
garden parties. Perhaps Mel. B. Spurr has
something to do with it; he is the idolised guest
at them all, where he talks and contorts as briskly
as if furnace winds never blew.
“ The annual demonstration of terpsichorean
capers by the numerous pupils of Mrs. and Miss
Green is to bid for the applause of the multitude
at the Town Hall next Monday. As the pro-
ceeds go to charities (with no sectarian preju-
dices), the public can look on a pleasant leg and
feel the balm of benevolence on its lofty brow.
“Hospitals, public asylums, and fete organisa-
tions have been struggling for the last ten days
for the Tennysonian benediction. His Ex. is
mostly saved the laying-on of hands, but his
amiable consort starts after breakfast on a round
of visits, and opens fetes, garden junkets, and
thimble shows with the despatch of a Greek open-
ing oysters. The busy week culminates in a
Saturday Mayoral spree.
“ Melbourne turns its eyes and ears Sydney-
wards for the divorce of the season. The hearing
of the suit is fixed for the present court sittings in
Harborville. The lady figures as respondent.
She is young, and entrancingly pretty. This
Southern State was her birth-place. Hence our
curiosity.
“The M‘Eacharn’s frequent voyagings to Jap-
land have caused a Northern magnificence to
prevail at ‘Goathlands’ (am always tempted to
write it ‘ Goatlands ’), and at that recent Monday
corroboree, when the vice-regal Clarkes were
farewelled with full blaze of municipal
fireworks at the Town Hall, the rich
palm plantations and stiff, grand decorations of
the Gillott order were wiped out, and rugs,
mattings, divans, and weird palms of quite an
Asiatic tone prevailed. The present Lord Mayor
is going to make his term in the Polar robes and
brass fittings one of transcendental splendor, and
the civic tongue is hanging out in readiness.
“ First series of the Austral wheel-races, fixed
for last Saturday, had to be postponed because of
the rain. Next Saturday, weather permitting,
the second day’s fixtures will be gone on with,
and December 12th will see the final if the climate
is at all propitious. Last Saturday’s dropped
events will have a day allotted to them as soon as
arrangements can be made.
“The Argus Mackinnons are at present plum-
ing themselves on the news of their plump son’s
feats at deer-stalking in the cold country. Here
he was a polo enthusiast. Now it’s deer-stalking,
don’t you know.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


SHAKY NERVES.
Your nerves are shaky—your self-control is shattered—your will-power is broken! Sudden sounds
startle you —your temper’s irritable.
Your hands tremble—your palms perspire. There’s weakness in your knees. Your skin is pale and
parched. You’re restless in the night—tired when you wake!
And it all comes from nervous exhaustion—late hours, hot days, over-work and want of blood.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills make new blood—They brace up jangled nerves—They strengthen tired
backs—They give energy to dull, weary men and women.
“ Influenza left my nerves weak and shaky,” says Mr. John J. Talbot, 6 Smith’s Terrace, Edward-street Wagga
“ I hadn’t the strength of a kitten, and felt utterly worn-out. The sight of food turned me sick. I had neither the
energy nor heart to look after my business. Everything was a trouble. To see me tottering down the street you would
actually think I was an old man of 80. And often I was taken for a Consumptive. Every day I grew worse and at last
completely lost the use of my legs. I thought then I might as well be dead. Although I had the best care and nursing
as well as doctors’ attention, I didn’t brace up till Mr. Hooper, of Traill-street, tcld me about Dr Williams’Pink Pills
curing the very worst cases of nerve troubles, and even paralysis. He said they actually mad* new blood—so I lost no
time in getting some at Williams’ Pharmacy, Fitzmaurice-street. In a week or two I felt they were just the medicine I
needed. I could feel the new warm blood galloping in my veins, and the muscles of my legs began to loosen In about
a fortnight I could use my legs and walk slowly about. I began to enjoy my food, and all my old energy and spirits came
back. Now lam as tit as ever I was. And lam never troubled now with shaky nerves. I‘am a great believer in Dr
Williams’ Pink Pills, and lam always recommending them, for they cured me when I thought I was crippled for life ” '
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE WHATEVER—GET THE GENUINE.
Price per box, 2s. 9d.
Six boxes, 15s. 3d.
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Obit. In England, Abraham Scott, who sat
in the first South Australian Legislature and went
’Ome in 1867.
A man named Roch Octave Alexandre
Innocent Dieudonne Tarascon pleaded guilty to
burglary in Melbourne lately.
Edouard Adet, who founded the firm of
Curcier, Adet and Co., of Sydney and Melbourne,
60 years ago, has just died at Bordeaux.
Dear Bulletin, —In your remarks upon
the chameleon (George Reid) you forgot to men-
tion that the creature’s tongue is almost as long as
its body.—J.
Kingston was asked if he intended to be
present at the first sitting of the High Court in
Adelaide, and he replied : “Not I. If I went, I
should be tempted to tell Griffith that he has no
right to be there.”
Little Simpson Newland turned 68 in
Adelaide on Nov. 2nd. He has done a great deal
of hard work in his time, and his sons are keeping
the name going. One is a doctor and the other a
solicitor, best known as S.A. champion wicket-
keeper.
Memories of the famous Victorian coach-
ing days of Cobb and Co. are revived by the
death of J. M. Peck, aged 73, one of the founders
of the firm in ISj3. In later years, up to ’B7, he
was a prominent stock and station agent in Mel-
bourne.
Mrs. Selwyn, widow of the famous Maori-
land Bishop Selwyn, of sixty years ago, still lives
in London. She is aged 95. Even now she puts
herself in correspondence with most Australians
she hears of there, to learn latest news about
things at this end.
The frilled religions are spreading, appa-
rently. Two “ministers ” of the Consecrated
Church of Latter Day Saints were enrolled in
N.S.W. for the celebration of marriages, the
other day. .Remarkable how hungry all these
modern missionaries are for licenses to collect
fees. And it isn’t on record that the twelve
original apostles had a license among the lot.
Tom Bent, Vic. Ministerial bully, gave
Melbourne a rude reminder of its bad old boom
days last week in the following paragraph :
Negotiations for the sale of Rippon Lea, Elsternwick,
the residence of the late Frederick Sargood, have been
concluded. The property has been purchased by Mr.
Thomas Bent, M.L. A., on behalf of a syndicate, of which
he is a member, for the sum of £20,000.
Thomas back in the land-jobbing business! It is
quite like old times.
FAILS TO PASS THE AUSTRALIAN TEST.
The most unique (in his opinion) of many compliment*
paid to Mr. Deakin during his late tour over Australia
was at Ipswich. “Splendid! Best speech I ever heard.
There wasn't an oath in it from first to last ."—Daily
paper.
Unrecorded history. Deakin trying to swear.
Uwlisyuiscd contempt of bullock-driving audience.
(With apologies to E. T. Recd.)
The oldest of Adelaide’s wealthy men is
Edmund Spicer, father-in-law of Edwin Smith,
who will be 86 years on New Year’s Day.
South Australia’s most experienced courtier
is a little woman who, in 30 years, has been con-
victed on 241 charges. She has been sentenced to
as much as 12 months five times, and has already
had 11 Christmas dinners in gaol, where she makes
the laundry work her specialty.
“ Impossible,” said the moustachioed
Neild, “to shut me out of politics; quite
impossible ! ” Then after a twirl on bis right
heel: “ Though did such a thing occur it would
be for the good of Australian literature. I often
think that the exactions of politics make me
faithless to my true destiny.”
A Sydney paper, in noting the retirement
of Baronet Cooper from the turf, says that his
father, “old Dan Cooper,” got the baronetcy for
his services as first Speaker of N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly. Nobody gets a baronetcy for services
done to Australia. Dan purchased his glory by
big donations to the Lancashire Famine Fund.
John Snorting recently let himself loose
on North Queensland, and proved a disappoint-
ment to the loud and lurid slangwhangers of those
parts. John in print and John on the platform
are different Johns, and hundreds of readers of
John’s family paper were surprised to find him a
respectable and almost tame orator, who talked
for a couple of hours and never shocked anybody.
If he had started by hitting the table hard with a
human thigh-bone and saying “ damn ” the crowd
would have felt more at home.
The most out-of-the-way obituary piled on
a dead pressman for a long time was that printed
over the death notice of aged editor G. L. A.
Davies at Rockdale, N.S.W. “He was a capable
and conscientious alderman,” said the solemn
biographer. The old man, who for many years
ran the Windsor (N.S.YV.) paper, and more
recently acted as city agent for N.S.W. Country
l’ress Association, was a kinsman of the Davieses,
of Ho jart Mercury. A kindly old fellow, wit,h
a beaming face and a beard like an Arab Sheik’D
Murray, who is standing in the black
Labor interest for a vacant Queensland Senator-
ship, is the learned person who, when a Queens-
land Minister, in answer to an interjection,
asked “Who’s Bryce?” A man with such a
colossal ignorance as to the author of the
Federalists’ text book is a worthy candidate for
the Kanaka vote.
From the election address of William
Morse, who wants to creep into the Brisbane
seat for the Reps, between the Laborite and the
Mac Paterson :
The laudable aspiration of the democracy of Australia
foran uncontaminated white people should not be carried
to unreasonable extremes
Of course not. As long as we can have moderately
virtuous wives, and fairly respectable daughters,
and sons who don’t commit more than one murder
(or two at the most), we ought to be satisfied.
Let us be moderately good, and then, when we are
reasonably dead, we may be Lost up to a certain
point; anyhow, don’t let any unreasonable and
extreme desire for complete happiness cause us to
go to heaven, except in strict moderation.
Latest’Murkan description of Elijah
Dowie: “ A ratty Methodist with a
Christian-Science attachment.”
About a Melbourne parson :
A quaint story is told of Rev. Ernie Hughes,
a sworn-bachelor among Melbourne parsons,
who has some claim to be called a strong man.
Rev. Ernie is professedly of Welsh parentage
and sympathies, takes off his clerical hat when
the band plays “Men of Harlech,” and bids for
the vote and interest of every Taffy in his dis-
trict. Also, he is a warm denouncer of the
“gambling evil.” Parents who want baby-
christened after a gee-gee can’t persuade parson
Hughes to perform the ceremony, not if they
offer him a double fee. He is always on the
alert to detect a turfy name, and it’s useless
for a godfather and godmother to argue that
the3’ thought of calling the little innocent
Clara Wakeful Millicent, because she never
goes to sleep, or Charles Abundance, in antici-
pation of a bounteous harvest. The .reverend
snorter has seen the names of Wakeful jand
Abundance quoted in Melbourne Cup betting,
so his leg is not to be pulled. The other day
his suspicions were aroused by a father who
came along to book his services for the
christening of a male infant. A weird, peculiar
Christian name, full of consonants and splut-
ters, was submitted to the parson for approval,
and he didn’t approve, although the applicant
was a Welshman, after his own heart. “It’s
the name of a racehorse, I’m sure,” said Rev.
Ernie, “and I’ll not degrade the child by
giving it to him." In a tone of sorrowful
astonishment the man replied: “ Why, Mr.
Hughes, that name is Welsh for ‘God be
with you ’—l thought you knew the language."
Iceberg Irvine will not go on the Supreme
Court Bench—at least, not yet. He has a better
game to play. Two Judges, A’Beckett and
Holroyd, must soon lay aside their horse hair
chignons and rabbit-skin robes. It is then pretty
certain that Mitchell and Cussen will go up on
the Bench. Both these barristers have practices
in every way suited to Irvine’s methods and style
at the bar. If he can get out of politics and back
to the Bar what time Mitchell and Cussen leave
it, their practices, or, at any rate, a good slice of
them, will naturally fall into the track of the
Iceberg. Higgins is a better man than either
Mitchell or Cussen, but he is a Radical in politics,
and that is sufficient to block him with the crowd
that now rules the roost in Victoria. Higgins is
too much like Higinbotham, who did not hesitate
to subscribe a weekly “ tenner ” to the big strike
fund.
IT LOOKED LIKE IT.
BOUNDER CUMLAITRLY, ESQ. (to son of
house): “ And so your father has
been saying all these nice things
of me, has he, Billie ?”
BILLIE : “Fes, just to rile mother."
“ H.” : Tait (the new scheme for making
Vic. railways “ pay ”) in one respect resembles the
bunyip. When you get to close quarters he is the
reverse of awe-inspiring. To see him on Cup Day
in the main signal-box at Spencer-street tearing
his hair and avowing the utter impossibility of
dealing with the race traffic in the time available,
he didn’t strike one as a great man at all. He
wasn’t even “ cool, calm or strong.”
Arthur Griffith, who resigns a State seat
for Commonwealth politics, is a West Meath man
and related to half of Ireland. An old Irish song
runs:
Trembling on their knees,
They’ll say in supplication,
Give us, if you please,
Griffith’s valuation.
Griffith, a grand-uncle of Arthur’s, was appointed
to value the lands of Ireland, which he did
to the partial satisfaction of the tenants
and the complete disgust of the landlords. The
tenants bound themselves to pay no more than
“Griffith’s valuation,” and on this ground the
Land League fought the Government for years.
The cool behavior of a daughter of the
sea in time of trouble is being widely chronicled
in M.L. When the barque Northern Monarch
went on the rocks at Opunake, Mrs. Fisher,
daughter of the skipper, and wife of the second
officer, was told that they must take to the
boats in a minute or so. Going below, the
lady made her toilet, did up her back hair,
parcelled up a couple of dresses and hats,
skipped on deck, casually asked the “old
man ” if he had secured all the ship’s papers,
and then stepped into the boat. Staged as a
true-life effect in a Blandholt drama, the “back-
hair” business would turn a sensational scene
into a howling farce. Truth is a lot more frivolous
than fiction.
Hart, president of the Victorian Engine-
drivers’ Association, and one of the leaders in the
recent railway strike, left for S’Africa on the
21st. Hart has accepted an engagement there,
and he goes to join four other members of the
late executive in Capetown. Scorer, the late
secretary of the same association, has started
business as a greengrocer and wood and coal
retailer. The majority of the executive have
opened shops in Kensington and North Mel-
bourne, and many local shopkeepers who sup-
ported Irvine complain bitterly. Two other
members of the executive have formed an
elaborate scheme for supplying all the civil and
railway servants with bread, and start with a
promise of 1000 customers, and four carts, employ-
ing some of their fellow strikers.
Said that Irvine was bitterly disappointed
at not getting a knighthood this November; and
it was a pity ; the knighting of Irvine would have
done much to bring the “honor” down to its
proper repute. The Bulletin would give -£IOO
to have Irvine and Bent knighted.
The South Australian National Ass. tried
hard to get W. J. Sowden, editor of the Register,
to come out for the Senate, but couldn’t manage
it. The position of Editor Bonvthon, of the
Advertiser, is different; he owns all the paper,
while Sowden was only admitted as a junior
partner in the Register during the past year or
two. '•
Maoriland Premier Seddon has developed
a curious method of refuting his opponents when
the ordinary weapons of logic fail him. He has
been getting an unusually bad time this session all
round, and he has had recourse to an argument
that seems to indicate that he is losing his old grip
on things. The other day, when the case of a
certain volunteer captain, who had been
court-martialled for writing a letter to
the papers urging returned “ swaddies ”
to apply for the money that the Govern-
ment was withholding from them, was
under discussion in the House, T. E.
Taylor made use of strong language
and said, among other things, that
the defence forces were cund'ered
with ex-farm-burners whose capa-
city for honest work had been
destroyed by their taste of blood
and the mad way in which the
women tore the buttons from
their uniforms. Seddon, in his
reply, smote Taylor’s argu-
ment in favor of the
volunteer officer in
question, a hard
blow by de-
daring that
Taylor was
a pro-Boer.
Anyone
who
disagrees
with
Seddon
is a
pro-
Boer
nowadays.
When the
London press
gently gibed at him
for some of his asininities in connection with
his recent trip to the Cold Country, he stated
that the only papers that did it were pro-Boer
organs. The other day, when the Opposition
contended that it was improper to deceive the
British investor, Seddon arose and said that
anyone who declared that the State owed a cent
to anyone was a pro-Boer. It appeals to Seddon
as a strong and unanswerable argument to say
that his opponents are pro-Boers. Seddon uses
it so often that it is losing what force it ever
had, in the same way as the argument that a man
is illogical because he has big feet grows weak if
it is repeated too frequently.
Treasurer Butler (S.A.), who is mentioned
as likely to take the Premiership, should Jenkins
appoint himself Agent-General next year, com-
pletes his 58th year on Dec. 3; and Senator Zeal
will be 73 on Dec. 5. Butler, like Speaker Holder
—his predecessor as State Treasurer—is long,
gaunt, and cadaverous, but, unlike Holder, can
easily be flurried and put out of temper by an
opponent. Holder was the calmest man who
never threw a shadow.
FOREDOOMED TO FAILURE.
The Victorian Employers' Union Four in the
race for the Senate.
Pumpkin Smith, playing lofty patriot on
the Macquarie, denounces politicians who make
money their first look-out. Pumpkin has taken
his own share out of the Treasury as member and
Minister, and when knocked out of State politics
he grabbed the post of chairman of the Tuber-
culosis Board at five guineas a sitting, and five
guineas for each extra day devoted to the work of
the Board.
JONES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The death of Mr. W. Jones, of Footscray, Victoria, wh®
left property to the value of £30,000 not disposed of by
will, was followed by a very large number of persons
claiming to be entitled to share in the property. It wag
stated in September last that the persons claiming
relationship with the deceased numbered 300.— Cable.
So HE is dead ? Go, carve his name.
On tons of gilded stones 1
For full three hundred people claim
Relationship to Jones.
The birth-rate “ push" bows low its head
And tells the tale with moans :
’Twas hard to lose the man who led
Th’ immortal clan of Jones.
Proclaim his death in every street
In great stentorian tones !
And see them swarm to pick the meat
From off the bones of Jones.
They come like vultures—coin is rare
In this sad land of loans,
The lot will run a bob or two
To every clamorous Jones.
And let the coin a medal be—
The coin that each one owns—
To deck for all eternity
The several chest of Jones.
The grass is green above his dust,
The beetle softly drones
Unto the lingering moth and rust
That are—what once was Jones.
W.A.
W.J.S.


Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
For the Summer Season
The innumerable visitors who have stayed at
“ The Australia ” during Summer months, have
nothing but praise for this famous Hotel.
Ladies with families obtain every comfort and
attention at a very reasonable cost. The rooms,
furniture and appointments of “ The Australia”
are unsurpassable.
J. UUR SMITH (Late of Men/.ies'), Manager,
Castleicagh-st., Sydney.
u
D.C
L
WH
K
S
V
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by pout throuyhout
A ustraliu.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
Hardy Brothers,
Vice-Regal Jewellers.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney;
118 Queen Street, Brisbane
(And at London).
Buckles and Clasps
In Solid Silver, from
10s* to 30s*
Goods forwarded to the country on
approval.
Write for Large ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE, containing over
1000 Illustrations.
Solid Silver Waist Clasp in “ New Art ” Design,
\ 30s.
Aboriginalities.
After my eldest hopeful had
finished his home exercises, t’other evening, he
provided me with a list of his schoolmates’ nick-
names. Some of them : —Blowfly, Pig, Dummy,
Weeds, Bluey, Rooster, Bullocky, Lamppost,
Popgun, Emu, Peanut, Shingles, Butcher, Joker,
Peter (real name Frank), Dooley, Timbuctoo,
Nigger, Ben (Ernest at home), Huge, Jerusalem,
Tarts, Puddens. My boy is “Emu,” which fits
him very well.
SCRIPTURAL AUTHORITY.
TGE GR=EBTUKE: “Suppose you made a pile over
the Spring Meeting, Mat.?”
THE OTHER: “Vat? A pilel S'elp me, I totht
every thent. Take it from Matthew, my boy,
dot bloke in der Scribdures knew der game
ven he cried: 'O dot mein enemy vould make
a book ! ’”
Fish in the S.A. lakes, near the mouth of
the Murray, are dying freely from a vegetable
parasite which fastens on the skin, closing up the
eyes and the gills. It is supposed to be due to
the washing-down of stagnant matter out of the
billabongs by the past winter’s high river.
“ Alba ” tells about a Chinaman and other
things :
The strongest man I ever met up North was a Chow
blacksmith. His name was Foo Yen, and he carried his
smithy from one Gulf port to another. He would pile his
hammers and hearth in an iron-clamped box, put the
anvil in another, swing them on a bar and trek. He was
a shipping and general smith. Canvassed him for an ad.,
so I ought to know. Foo was a giant, and a reliable
workman. He forged anchor-bits and chains for the
luggers, tackled boilers and condensers, and repaired
diving gear. But he built the most devilish junk that
ever turned turtle. It carried a brass dragon for a figure-
head, and it drowned three Malays, two Japs, and half-a-
dozen Kanakas. On the calmest day it would suddenly’
lie over and give you a bath. Foo said it was possessed
of an evil spirit. Foo achieved distinction when an old
alligator walked into the pub at Manila Flat one day.
O’Keefe, who forged whisky in the interests of the black
shellers and other Eastern dirt, stood speechless behind
the bar when the mugger laid his snout on the counter,
and breathed at him. The township took to the roof,
and begged the publican not to desert the rum. They
said the alligator would go away if someone gave it a
goat. O’Keefe, in his hypnotic terror, offered the brute a
brandy and soda ; but the mugger waved its jaw and
clashed about the bar in quest of a dog or a drunk. The
saurian’s daylight visit solved the mystery of the drunk
who disappeared every time he slept on the verandah.
O’Keefe gripped the till and slate, and climbed up among
the bottles. Just then, Foo Yen walked in, eyed the’gator
with Mongolian scorn, and stoushed it on the face with a
sledge-hammer. “ What fo’ you come here ?” he asked.
The township cheered wildly, but requested Yen not to
hit the beer in mistake. The mugger whoofed and
grunted, and wheeled into the open, snapping viciously.
Dropping his hammer, the Chow blacksmith seized his
anvil and again faced the brute. The contest was heroic.
A ’gator will digest boiler-rivets and pig-iron, but when a
No. 2-sized anvil is rushed into his jaws he grows tired.
There is a legend up North that Foo Yen tamed the man-
eating alligator and taught it to carry the anvil. The
North is a great place for alligators —and missing drunks.
• * » *
Daily paper wire from Brewarrina, on the
Darling, which some people think is a big enough
river to irrigate half a continent with :
A mild sensation was created this morning, when word
went round that a man named William Harding had
attempted to commit suicide by drowning. Had it not
been for the boggy nature o' the banks, consequent on
the fall in the river, he would have undoubtedly achieved
his aim. When he jumped in he became bogged in the
mud, from which he was extracted by his nephew.
You mustn’t dawdle if you want to drown your-
self in a Western river.
* * * •
“ Sandalwood ” : The custom of dehorning
cattle answers for trucking and shipping purposes,
but has its disadvantages. In droughty times,
have often seen cattle, in scrubby country, reach-
ing and breaking down limbs with their horns,
and thriving when not a blade of grass was visible
anywhere. Sometimes a couple of poleys would
be found mating with an old scrub warrior whose
horns would do the breaking for all, thus gener-
ously feeding not only himself but his less for-
tunate companions.
The followers of Joe Smith
and Brigham Young do good busi-
ness in Maoriland. When these long-
haired, “ kalklatin’ ’’apostles are sent
forth from Utah their fares are paid
to their destination, and they are in-
formed that when they are tired, if
they care to apply to the god of Utah,
their return fares will be likewise
paid. When the disciple and his
twang strike the land of the heathen
they must battle round on their own
fcr feed and hair-oil. The Maori-
lander of the towns doesn’t take
kindly to the More-woman creed, he
knows sufficient concerning the keeping
of two wives; so he usually yells like
mad and heaves bricks at the man who v
has come to teach him things. Then the \
Mormon takes his gospel into the land of
the devil, which is short for Maori and bad
rum, and flourishes. His is a doctrine the
Maori can understand. Consequently the
savages all take a few more wives, and are con-
verted right away.
“Spring,” in a gloomy mood :
A few months review of S.M. Herald’s “ On the Land”
column is sorry reading. The articles started hopefully.
The wheat had been planted and rain had come in plenty.
It made one pine to throw down his pen and hie to the
beautiful soil which clamored to be wooed and walloped.
The Herald rediscovered N.S.W. as the possessor of vast
agricultural and pastoral resources, and all the chicken
correspondents in the country flapped round trying to
discover what the Old Hen was clucking about. Then came
wild outbursts of enthusiasm in re the record-breaking
season. Up to amonth ago the rain came just when wanted,
and the land stuck out its chest and imagined it had
as many “vast natural resources” as in the big loan
days. Then there came a time when the beautiful
showers lost all their charm. Finally, Bog Hollow
reckoned if the blasted rain kept off till the wheat was
gathered there’d be enough corn in Egypt to feed Jacob
and his sons and all their present-day descendants for
seven-and-twenty lean years. This broke the spell. The
countrj' correspondent thrives best on droughts and
murders, and in recording the fact that Dan
O’Oonnor has been appointed Pope, and other dreadful
things. The Balmain reader with a notion for the land
had his hopes dashed to the ground by howls of ruin
from the Braidwood district because a couple of rabbits
had been seen flicking their cotton tails in Jimmy
Dwyer’s barley patch. Storms in the north flattened the
heavy wheat; the damp weather brought rust in most
crops which stood up ; trains were held up by waves
of caterpillars which ate everything before them and bit
the locomotive; there was blackleg in the cattle, and
fever in the pigs; and from Hungerford came
an urgent demand for the Government Vet.
to travel furiously to inspect a strange pain
in the stomach of Widow Brogan’s goat. Through
reading these and other pars, beginning, “It is sad to
relate,” the public realised that farming is a gamble
from the fall of the flag to the judge’s box. “On the
Land ” is turning into a warning to people to keep off the
land, and to build tariffs and make things, instead of
using all their energies in trying to grow things.
* » * *
Once, in a house where the
writer was cook, paterfamilias brought home some
very choice fish for dinner from a leading Mel-
bourne fishmonger’s shop. He said they called
it Murray ling, but I instantly recognised it as
catfish with the poisonous skin removed. Catfish
AT THE ELECTIONS.
CANDIDATE : “ Good afternoon, madam. Are you
going to vote for our candidate, Mr. Stewart? ”
MRS. FLAHERTY: “Sure, it’s like your chake to
ask me. I respict the sacresy of the ballot-
box. Show me where ye go to vote for Murphy.”
has a muddy lagoony smell, no matter what the
wily fishmonger calls it. However, the family all
pronounced it delicious. There’s a lot in imagi-
nation.
FRICTION.
BULLOCKY SMITH: “This 'ere bullock-punchtn’
job’s a cow. Me hands is all blisters with
lay in’ the whip on to ’em.”
SYMPATHETIC SWAGGIE : “ I know what it is. I
chucked it fer the same thing. I used ter git
’em on me tongue, though!”
Parker’s Patent Rabbit Exterminator was
tested at Bacchus Marsh (Vic.) last week, and the
Vermin Destruction Board viewed the results
with murderous satisfaction. Parker’s Patent
takes a mean advantage of the rabbit. A small
cylinder, charged with a quart of poisonous solu-
tion and a quantity of compressed air, is buried in
a newly-made furrow, nothing being visible
above ground except an eighth-of-an-inch
of the nozzle of a small squirt. In
due course the exploring rabbit rambles along
the furrow and passes over a hidden platform
attached to the cylinder, whereupon a sufficient
dose of solution is automatically squirted upon
the victim. It is rather sticky stuff, and the
rabbit, in its simple love of cleanliness, licks the
polluted fur and poisons itself. Each cylinder is
capable of repeating this deadly trick 1300
times, or thereabouts. The Bacchus Marsh
test took place in a neighborhood where
rabbits are comparatively few and wily. Seven
machines in all were planted near two warrens,
half a mile apart, and the total kill for one night
was 13—more than a third of the estimated
population of the two burrows. Parker claims to
be the first fiend who has obtained a wicked
inspiration from bunny’s habit of cleaning itself.
The poison, once tongued, is swallowed by the
rodent. It cannot expectorate like its perse-
cutors. The inhumanity of Parker’s patent is
obvious.
* * * *
“ Spinaker ” : Pub in an hour or two in
a scrub-cutter’s camp the other night. Talk
drifted through the whole gamut of bush
skiteology on to phenomena, astronomical,
ghostly, etc., when Bluegum Mick gave his
little experience : —“ A bloke can’t always believe
his own blooming senses about them sorts of
things, and if he ain’t careful he’ll
get himself disbelieved. Remem-
ber once, years ago, I was driving
a mob of cattle down Gippsland
way. I’d had a tough job for a
K start, but about two o’clock in
the afternoon they’d settled
down and was travelling
grand, when all of a
t sudden the sun went
clean out. That’s the
only way I could ex-
plain it; it went that
dark. You could have
cut junks of blackness
out with a knife. I
was real scared, and
thought I’d been struck
blind. Reckoned the
Bloke Above had took
me at my word. I’d begged
Him to Often enough. But I
struck a mfctcli and found my
sight was right, so o’ course I put
it down to an eclipse. Well, I had a
good pup, and he kept the cattle together
and moving, so I let the old horse have his head,
and after about half an hour’s travelling it came
out bright again. I’d have swore on the Bible to
the eclipse then, if I hadn’t ha’ happened to look
back and found I’d been travelling through a
hollow log. ”
* * * *
“ Ciro ” : Has any Aboriginaliar ever seen
A. dftll lll fi-llfiH snail-A ? T Viova Moqv Worn Kan
a double-headed snake ? I have. Near Werribee
(Vic.), I was shooting one day, when the curious
freak—about 2ft. long—was seen coiled up and
asleep. I called my mate, and together we scruti-
nised the two distinct and evenly-shaped heads,
set on necks about half an inch long. Sleeping,
the heads were rather close together; when active,
the little blue feelers would jut out and the heads
work round to right angles, as if at variance about
the way they should lead the body. They quickly
agreed when the mate started to search for a
stick, and the curiosity we expected to bring home
in a pickle bottle disappeared in a hole in the rail-
way embankment. (What sort of bottles around
that hole?)
"UP NORTH.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sing the song of the Northern land,
Where the yellow bananas flourish
And nourish
The greasy, germ-laden Hindoo,
The Malay and the man from Ningpoo,
The Jap. and the Javanese too,
A motley and wonderful crew
Of every formation and hue—
A pungently odorous band.
I sing the song of the far, far North,
Where the dwellers in toto are piebald ;
And ribald
The remarkg,of the same dwellers are ;
Too grossly indecent by far,
And like to effectually bar
Their passage to that land afar
Where beauteous gates stand ajar,
When the soul from the clay goeth forth.
Of the folks of this land I may tell,
How the reprobate white man sits swilling,
And filling
His pint pot of rum to the brim ;
How he blasphemes and curses with vim,
“ Have another, you blank blanker, Jim 1 ’’
Till red serpents and blue devils grim
Surround and leer weirdly at him,
And he sinks to a sleep that is Hell.
I’ve sung of this suburb of Hell,
Where the sly alligators lie resting,
Digesting
The lately deceased citizen. . . .
Of this land of strange women and men,
Of the Chow and his foul-smelling den,
Of the scum of the Japanese fen
And forest, a mere mortal’s pen
Can only imperfectly tell.
N.S.W.
J. P. COOK.
NO SULPHURIC ACID—A DIRGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The practice of adulterating whisky with sulphuric
acid has apparently ceased.”— Queensland Health Com-
missioner’s Report.
There’s a city full of comfort—there’s a park of brightest
green,
There’s a crowd of dressy loungers and the ladies flash
between ;
Where there U3ed to be a bullock-dray there rattles by a
tram,
?And lovely fountains whisper where there used to be a
dam.
But the culture that has followed on the gruffness and
the grime—
Oh, it lacks a snap of something we knew once upon a
time,
And we gradually discover as we press our throbbing
brow
That there’s no sulphuric acid in the whisky now.
Oh, the joys of simple manhood in the happy days agone!
Oh, the bubbles on the beaker—how they shimmered and
they shone I
Oh, the fights that fiercely followed when the beaker was
a void !
Oh, the nights we spent in limbo with our visions un-
alloyed !
But the days we knew have vanished and our lives are
dull and tame,
And we go to bed by 10 o’clock and never think it shame,
And our language never purples and we never raise a
row—
Oh, there’s no sulphuric acid in the whisky now !
No ! the times we left behind us—they were full of bite
and sting,
They were days when every jolly lad could have a jolly
flingi
But the root of half the joyance was that subtle little
close,
’Twas the potent pinch of hell-juice that they dropped
into the brose;
It was full of doubt and devils-it could jibe and laugh
and jeer ;
It could drop you down a crater where the walls Were high
and sheer ;
It could drip like molten iron through your hapless,
splitting pow—
But—there’s no sulphuric acid in the whisky now.
And the gap is ever widening ’twixt the doleful days
that are,
And the evens when each toper “ hitched his waggon to
a star,”
We’re so prim and sad and sober, and we lead a life
severe,
And we talk of Tea and Crumpets, and we never dream
of Beer;
And to see us hoist our pot-hat on our bald and awful
head,
You would never dream We one time were an Artist in
the Red—
Yea, an Artist whom Convention tame could never bend
and bow ;
But—there’s no sulphuric acid in the whisky now.
Q.
PHILANDER FLAM.


TABLE SALT
While common Salt is only a Seasoning,
CEREBOS SALT is a Splendid Food. Used
in the kitchen and at table, it gives
greater strength to the diet and builds up
the Constitution.
Prom Grocers and Stoiet.
Wholesaie Agents:—Harrison & Atiwood, Sydney.
THE LADIES*
“Fx*&R” Watch
at £6 6s.
Is a |-plat« Lever. Is jewelled in 15 holes.
Has a Ruby Roller Jewel.
Has solid heavy 14ct. gold case.
Has brequet hair spring. Has compensated and adjusted balance.
It is guaranteed for 15 years and kept in order for two years
(breakages excepted) without charge.
It will stand hard riding and knocking about.
It is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
Ladies 1 3-plate
Movement!
Solid Gold CasOf
£6 6s.
IS
ss
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
HOBART
Highfield Hotel
Tasmania's Leading Hotel.
Newly erected; commtdious;
cuisine, accommodation, perfect.
“David Harum”: I was sitting on the
Sub. verandah in a country town in Northern
.A. one morning, when a man rode up to the
police station opposite and reported a suicide.
He had seen a man hanging from one of the top-
most branches of the biggest gum tree down in
the creek. Quarter of an hour later
the man, our portly policeman,
and half of the townsfolk (I
among them), arrived at the
spot. Yes, there dangled
the corpse—we could
just distinguish its /
outline between
the leaves! The
women were
muttering,
“Poor man,
poor man!
What a
ghas t 1 y
sight! The
A 1 mig h ty
preserve us
from such
another!”
The men said
nQthing —only
pulled their
beards, an d
thought of
plans of getting
the deceased
down. Th o
hoys sniggered.
Taking a coil of
rope, the portly
policeman began
climbing the tree.
Presently he sat
down on a bough
exhausted. “ Be-
dad,” he grunted,
looking at the up-
turned faces below
him, “this fellow was
a climber.” Next lap
the climber got 10 feet nearer the
corpse. “It’s in a bad slitate,” he
reported. Another 10 feet. “ Begob,
it’s in a very bad shtate ; ” and he hid
his nose in a handkerchief. He was
now very near it. “It must ’ave bin
bangin’ for days. . . . Why ! It ain’t
a corpse ! It’s a dummy—it’s a dummy.
Well I’m !” But the laugh of the
townsfolk drowned the last word.
’Twas as well, perhaps ! One cut of tho
knife and the dummy fell, smashing
as it reached the ground. I took one
glance, the stench wouldn’t allow more,
but ’twas enough to show me that
whoever played the trick played it well, for til3
dummy had been stuffed with dead flying foxes,
and after two or three days’ sun on it, well .
*• * * *
“C.C.” : I knew a tame buck rabbit
which used to bite. He spoiled four pairs of his
VIDA GOLDSTEIN, Victorian woman candidate for the Snale;
she should yet a vote from every democrat in Vic oria.
Photo, by Talma & Co., Melbourne and Sydney.
“Polstan”: Why don’t your bush-liars
owner’s pants, and upon his biting one of the
children it was decreed that he should die. That
tabbit was responsible for a notice on the gate —
“Beware of the Rabbit,” and it was positively
dangerous to go into the yard without a stick.
Have known him to be hoisted fully six yards,
wallop against a fence, and then return to the
attack. He was a game ’un. He did not hark,
and truth - tellers stop
quarrelling for a while
and tell us how to make
good damper ?
SPORT IN AUSTRALIA .
JOCKEY : “Shall I go for a win this time, sir!”
OWNER: “No, my boy, I cant afford it.”
“ Dargo” writes about
lyre-birds:
Concerning tame lyre-birds
and “6xB’s” sweeping asser-
tion that there are no tame
lyre-birds in Australia, I and a
heap more can prove he’s
misinformed. At Woolly-butt,
near Bairnsdale, an hotel-
keeper, llagar by name, has a
lyre-bird of great ability. Have
seen him “ shoo” the fowls out
of the kitchen at the behest of
the boss, shift more gravel to
the minute than a steam shovel,
and if he gets into the garden
he can lift more cabbages and
other vegetables than a China-
man. He was a chick when
caught, but, being pampered,
gradually got to bossing the
hens. But he bars the roosters.
He is alive and thriving, and
can do many wonderful things;
but as far as stacking 4-inch
diameter firewood—well, I sup-
pose he must be delicate. At
Wood’s Point (Vic.) an old
hatter had a host of tame
lyre-birds. These were poisoned
by a malicious brute who had a
grudge airainst him. I do not
implore “ 6xB ” to believe me ;
let him travel to Wood’s Point
for verification of above. Here
(Dargo River) I find lyre-birds
not shy, particularly when snow
is on the ground. They run
about the house fence, even
when kiddies are kicking up a
racket in the garden. In Foster
(South Gippsland) once caught
a young bird and carted him
home to camp. He nearly
drove us mad with his incessant
“ peet-peet.” We had him a
week, and the local rag came
out with a clamorous article
on “ Pedantic Fallacies,” prov-
ing with convincing force that
the lyre - bird, hitherto sup-
posedly un tameable, was tame-
able. The bird died next morn-
ing.
* *
“F.E.P.W.”: Have
never read, or heard, a suf-
ficient appreciation of the
common prickly pear as a
reviving food for humans.
Walking with a friend
once, we tackled some when
quite “done in/’ Their
effect was quite surprising,
thirst-quenching and highly restorative. We set
out feeling as relieved as one who wakes from a
dream in which he thought George Reid was
Prime Minister. Have often since expected to
meet some patent medicine with our prickly
friend as its foundation. Also, some housewives
have found that the p. p., made into a jelly, has
noticeable strength-restoring qualities in sickness.
The entomologist of the Wills exploring
expedition, just buck in Adelaide, has a box of
spiders’ silk, which is found in great quantity
hanging from the trees in the Macdonnell Ranges.
It much resembles ordinary silk, and can, he
claims, be woven in the usual way. He also
secured a number of honey-ants, and even suc-
ceeded in filling a phial with honey extracted in
native fashion from their abdomens.
* * * •
“Old Cove”: Can’t stand “H.S.R.”
(8., 12/11/’O3), who would “like to hear of any
pastoralist or farmer who is giving more than
15s. per week, or who has given more for several
years.” No man within 50 miles of here (Bingara,
N.S.W.) works for less than £1 per week, and
youths of 18 and upwards can generally command
that wagre. During the past 12 years I have
never paid less than £1 to anyone over 19 years
of age, and am always glad to get certain men at
255. Board, when at the homestead, equal to
what I get myself; when camping out includes
potatoes, sauce, pickles, and jam ad lib. Let
“H.S.R.” localise his growl. Men in the N.W.
of N.S.W. want to pick their jobs at £1 per week.
LADY’S HACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Step it out, my satin-coated
Lady’s hack 1
With your mane, by breezes floated,
Streaming back,
To the time of magpies singing,
And the merry hoof-beats ringing,
Past the cattle, slowly stringing
Down the track.
Fast from grim old Care I’m riding,
While I feel you ’neath me striding,
And I watch the tree-trunks gliding,
Stern and black ;
Over fallen logs we’re rushing,
Through the hanging boughs we’re brushing,
For you need but little guiding,
Lady’s hack.
Flecked with foam from ear to quarter,
Lady’s hack !
Still your stride is none the shorter,
Steed of black.
For the lead you would be taking,
And the pace you’d still be making,
Though your honest heart was breaking,
A.id your back.
But our hot blood’s all a-tingle,
So I’ll ease you o’er the shingle,
That your girth and broad surcingle
I may slack,
While you toss your head and sidle,
As you fidget with your bridle,
And you make the bit-rings jingle,
Lady’s hack.
t.s.T.
SPINIFEX.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name anil
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
G.C.C.: So Labor leaders “ block all industry,
production, progress and development,” do they? Then
how is it that the area under crop, the number of hands
employed in factories, and the coal output have increased
during the 12 years that Labor parties have existed, as
they never did before in the same space of time?....
Walter E.P.: Mostly mares’ nests. One of the words you
complain of is perfectly good English. And “Hindu*
has two significations according to the dictionary ; as a
national term it covers any native of Hindustan ; in a
religious sense, only one sect....A. Mate: “Scotty*
below par K.: Good verse, but that “ One-man-one-
vote ’’ joke is so ancient F.W. : Prolix plot unneces-
sarily tangled.. . .Barbara N. : Sinful syntax 1 Why will
people try to build literary houses before they’ve learnt
to lay grammatical bricks... P. M‘C. : Pretentious, but
weak Jasmine : Tumbltdown sort of verse. Erraticism
is not necessarily originality.... Phil A. There’s'not
much of it, at all events.” Fortunately !.... M.B;W. :
Very nearly hits the mark.... Sarah B. : Wauders wildly
from subject in hand... .Shandy : Impracticable metre.
B.F. : Too many purposeless caracolings en route.
Point should have been gone for straight W.A.T. :
Has promise. Study terseness Dagon : Dry as dust.
M.W. : Write to “Accountant, Bui.letin Office.”...
Viva : Inappropriate pen-name for such heavy screed
Ne’er-do-Weel: Your pars, would be more usable if you
could get ’em into a quarter of the space. No room in
Bulletin for superfluous rhetoric A. Wright : You also
expend too much wind on your otherwise good items.. ..
Miriam : Begins brightly ; fades away to nothing at the
end 8.A.0. : Dymock’s, George-st., Sydney, will
supply the book for 11s. For the other purpose men-
tioned the best work is “ Brewer’s Reader’s Handbook,”
price about 7s. 6d Wentworth H.: Forced and
unnatural. Don’t strain after rhttorical gorgeousness...
Bobolink : Yes, in Bulletin about two months back
W.M. : Correct in form, but bloodless and uninter-
esting... .H.J.B. : All dull and stodgy H.R. : Not
interest enough Roma: “ O’Gorman’s ” rather funny
in places, but lacks consecutiveness. ..J.E.R. : Sorry
cannot use it, but don’t feel justified in discouraging
further efforts.... A. S.L : No doubt you feel it all
strongly, but it isn’t up to literary mark W. Butler:
None quite good enough.... Johhn Smitth : Accepted....
Margaret M. : “Commutation” too slight.... A.Z.A. :
“ Interlude ” might be very good if it was possible to
find out what it was about. .. U. : “ Sleeper-choppin’”
rather too rough... .C.R. : Think “Woman” will do. 1
Don’t care much for “ Office.”... .J.F.B. : “Trekking
North ” rather rugged. You could do much better if you.
took more pains with your rhymes. “Gulf” and!
“ Bananaland ” are hopeless... .Coo E. : “ Pharisaism ”
declined after hesitation. Comes so near the line tli.fe '
it might be accepted if we had time to hesitate long
enough Medicine Jack : Verse not up. Avoid “good
books on English metre and verse.” Just read good
verse E.J. : “Lips’* rather too trivial. “ Evening
meaningless in places. For instance, is it the “ rushes
or the “ rippling courses” that are “ gaunt ai.d grim ?
And what is a grim rush like? Ex. : “How is This
hardly good enough..L.B.E. : “ Nightßloom ” justabout
missed the bus J.O.M'G. : Don’t care for “Tipster”....
W. Hammond: Not up to publication 1eve1.... Dapto :
You missed with the first barrel, but brought us down
with the second Tyro: Obviously very much 50....
J.F. : Not much chance of being printed anywhere. Sub-
ject belated and style wearisome.... Pippo : Lady is still
in England, but there is some talk of her returning to
Australia G.D.A. : What we managed to decipher of
it made us kick ourselves for taking the trouble....
Atlang: Bulletin condemns as cordially as you do the
Irvine idea of making people contribute to their rela-
tives’ old age pensions. The only redeeming feature, as
already stated, is that many rich Tories who whoop for
this clause may have the joy of being ordered to contri-
bute to the support of aged and seedy uncles whose exist-
ence they have denied for many years. The admimstra-
tion of the law won’t be always in Irvine’s hands
G.T. Y. : Ac cidental deaths of birds subject exhausted....
Banool: Tin-w r edding a mere music hall tinkle with a
flavor of impropriety’ B. Pensla : All quite hopeless
E. : We’ve already dealt with the subject shortly....
Crook : You argue a fallacy’. If you don’t pursue the
man who robs you of sixpence he may come back for a
pound Ophir: Your “ remarkable dream ” hasn’t come
to hand ; perhaps you only dreamt you sent it C.D.:
He would not forfeit his American citizenship by fili-
bustering against the Boers G.R.G.: The Morant inci-
dent cannot be revived no w.... G& Y : Not in our line....
F. : The Hare system of voting and other puzzles of
that sort seem to get to the same result as straight-out
voting but by a longer way Hugh Stone : The burial
or cremation of the dead should be made a municipal
monopoly ; that would provide for free burial in the case
of those leaving no funds or friends to bury them....
Dromio : Purposeless drivel... .Harry M,: Not very bad,
but a needless violation of historical fact E. Mac. :
“Chauvinism” is simply French jingoism Diana:
Blank verse isn’t so easy to write as it seems. Yours is
merely prose cut up J. J. : Sentiment beaten out too
thin.....Tiger-S. : “Forpublication, or Well, it’s
a bad case of “ or—.”.. D. O’B.: It has nothing to do with
“ arcades.” It means “ both Arcadians ” ; equivalent to
“ A pair of noodles.” Wagtail: Can’t wag your tail in
Bulletin. ....Sal A.: Too threadbare W.D. : But
modern plague epidemics have been comparative flea-
bites. The 1348-9 outbreak destroyed in England 2,500,000
out of a population of 5,000,000 Tobit: Machinery
too visible/ The reader should not be allowed to see the
wheels going round Rob H.: Fizzles out weakly at end.
... .P. 0.8. : Rather pretty, but no backbone of idea.. —
Australia: Thanks ; but our printing, on the whole, is a
good deal clearer than that of the daily papers.... N.C. H. :
We really can’t keep track of a fussy old person like Cole
with his Colored Australia bee all over the globe. Mr.
Cole’s importance only justifies one par J.D.8.: Sug-
gestions unsuitable... .Ben Sun: That gravel subject
should make a good bit of verse, but your effort loafs
along drowsily. Hataitai: Not up to the literary
mark.... Neville M. : Feebie .Gordon B.W. : Might
have been effective if told in one-fourth the words....
Saldo: Well intended, but you lack the necessary
literary equipment F.W.O’N. : You have not general
knowledge enough to deal with such a complex sul ject,
“Fools rush in,’* etc.. ..H. Braine : Fairly well-written,
but lacking in vigor and interest.... .W.J.N. :. Only very
moderate merit, and too conventional ..Miss Lloyd:
Three of them will be returned . .Percival G.C. : Too
obviously modelled on H. G. Wells's well-known angel-
story.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.E. (Brisbane) : Neither good enough. May use one
as suggestion... .Panto :No g00d.... \V. J.M'D : One may
do out of the four.. ..C.H.R. : Joke unclean. Picture of
lady in night-gear objectionable.. ..E. de L. : One sug-
gestion will d 0... A.M.H :No hope.... I. L. : Crude....
Geo. B. (Melbourne): Not a prospect nor a hope nor n
semblance in the lot.. . .Percy B. : Reid doesn’t look at
all like that R.H. : Turkey joke no good. Considering
other J.L.8.: No use to us.. ..Unsuitable : L.F.D. (Q.'
FRUIT SEASON IN THE SOUTH SEA
ISLANDS.


pr
■fiKc \X *6 A compMerfP^p
I rrw sfreilg"7 wljcn Rorrjc ts So
|H|\ UU , fa crush me /
WWWWWvvWx \\\ w r fa rf \ ll i
ImrnuumuvVv \\ \ \W\ * \ W |n m e If
1
-'eA'/Jx •
ilfe- Calico
l CkfflPlOri
Y)'///,. W
<\S^y/mjO^X
\ ' (in one. <\ cT )
\ _(j\yp-
I Witch of tndor.
N .•■■■• G-H.ReuT
ue l s G fyos'l ' V
I 111
MR. REID AT BATHURST'
THE MAN WITH THE AXE TO
£RINL>.
V D.T I)e>v<t«n9s j
Tn»sr .
fulfilled
/"rfeKe. Hof, " Ive
Kei>r l/"nJ\ |lVe
*<>► V<m
KCid °ice v/a^fed
fc Kill
MOSTLY ELECTION MATTERS.


„ HE INCREASED Price of Beer
»■>»«" i£x? sat &
rsKss*-!^— —n.iLSr
Black Politicians for Bi.acb aus- {
\ ’ ' TIM LI \
he is convinced that Cod made |
Australia black, and as ho is not a !■
man to My in the face of Providence, I
the candidate will.of courso appreciate "
the necessity of “ changin’ color afor-
iiiomin''
V _ W*-=-
irate Customer—Yes, yes, a drink’s tile
same price, but a ‘drunk's’ a darn
sight dearer •’*
TKF VICTORIAN FIHJR
Mr. F. T. OERHAM.
Sir JOHN M'INTYRE
Mr. EDMOND E. SMITH
Colon**' TEMPLETON.
oV -
\i\]o opened %
Pour out-and-out
conservative candi-
dates havonominated
for tho Senate, and
there aro thirteen
liberal and protec-
tionist candidates,
tho conservatives
hope that the conten-
tions of the liberals
will help them to the
seats
1 Mr Irvine announced to hi? followers
yesterday that m response to the widelv-
expressed desire of the people he will
torero - his intention to retire lie has
changed his purpose only under the im-
pulsion of an overpowering sense of duty ”
* Hr. Hkm a ins to Save the Country.
f I)k Irvine (the cutter and carver). —
| ; k 'nigic, there, my little woman. I have
I _ determined to continue to save you/’
the reformed - state feels more
up ” than ever.
num^e.ra, Sur^
VICTORIAN HAPPENINGS.


SAUNDERS FOR WEDDING PRESENTS.—SEND DIRECT TO 815 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
fm
ww
5
m
Mp
LO
BN
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Hobnail Cut 6-Bottle CRUET, Pure Silver-
plated, on hard white metal, £3 ;
4-Bottle, £2, without shield.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVER'S FRIEND, highly polished nickel silver
mounts, bevelled edge Mirror, Shaving Brush,
Soap Basin, Paper Clip on Black Base, 255.
M I I
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA SETS, Consist of 3 Articles, Tea Pot, Sugar Basin, and Milk Jug. with lids, gilt inside pure Silver-plated,
py.tdni; a most useful and handsome present. £4 4s. Similar pattern, 4o c. size, £2 15s, £3, £3 10s.
tend for Complete Illustrated .List of Tea Sets.
i I
nil -
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ CARD RECEIVER, newest design, nicely chased
and embossed, pure Silver-plated, AJa.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated PICKLE
JAR, square-out glass,
27s 6d.
A. SAUNDER’
SILVER PLATE
IB THE VERY BEST.
WE SELL ONLY HIGH-CLASS
(QUALITY.
Post Free to any Special Address
Required.
SEND FOR OUE
1903
Illustrated Catalogue.
Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Eloral Crown Derby China BISCUIT
BARREL. Silver -platei mounts, 255.
Similar styles 20s, 22s 6d. 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Highly engraved, extra quality.
Silver-plated CAKE BASKET 25s-
Other styles 21s, 30s, £2.
T 5 5-
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-Dinted on hard white
metal BUTTER DISH,
Chased and Ornamented, 30b, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver plated ou hard white metal.
Oval-shaptd BUTTER DISH fes 6d,
Round 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-plated Nickel - Silver TOAST RACK,
las 6il, Other styles, 10s 6d, 15s, 20s.
CANDLESTICK, Silver-plated,
8s 6d ; oilier styles, 12s 6d, 15s bd.
Breakiast CRUET, pure
[silver, on hard white metal,
best quality. 10s 6d ;
very best quality, 12s 6d.
Pure Silver-mounted Hob-
nail Cur. Glass Cerebus
SALT CASrOB.
5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
H
SJES
ill
1
m
■O
§#\
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Presentation WALNUT CLOCK, 14 daj, i hour
Cathedral double chiming gong, £5. Similar design, £5 ss, £5 10s.
Without Chimes, striking hours and half only, 355, £2, £2 10s, £3
Send for Illustrated Book of Clocks.
A. SAUNDERS.
'TEAPOT Pare Silver-plated Nicely Chased, 27s 6d.
Similar patterns, 17s 6d. 20s, 30s, £2.
Jas. Dixon and Sous’ Famous Silver-plate.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Pure Silver -mounted Cut Glass KNIIE
REST'S, in Silk-hoed Case, 15s 6d.
Extra oruamented cut gla-° ‘2ls.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, beautifully chased,
pure silver electro-plated on white
metal, 255. Similar 21s.
The Bulletin
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET and SPOONS 21s,
pure Silver -plated. Other styles 255, 350.
A. SAUNDERS.
Rare Silver-plated Nickel Silver RUTTER
DISH, A 1 quality, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Combination TOAST RACK and EGO
FRAME, Silver-plated, 255.
111!
A. SAUNDELiS.
Pure Silv r-plated Hobnail Cut Glass Trifle or
FHUIT DISH, £2, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Si'ver-plated on hard white metal 4 o’clock
TEA SPOONS and TONGS, nicely embossed handles,
12s 6d, 15s 6d.
w
mmm
m as
fa «■•*?
■
A. SAUNDERS.
Heart-shaped SALTS, Pure Silver-mounted,
With Solid Silver Spoor* *.;]k-lmed Case, 13s 6d.
Four-bottle Lunch or Dinner
CEUET. Pure Silver Electro-
plated, 17s tjd.
Other styles, 21s, 255, 30s.
Send for price list.
11
nil
mmmsm
.
SißiitlfifiVl
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Improved Rapid Focusing FIELD GLASSES, very sharp and
effective, and most reliable, £2 10s.
Other Similar Styles 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s. 355, 40s,
up to £lolos.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two SERVIETTE RINGS. In S lk-hned Ease, nuieSilver-
plated on hard nickel silver, It's fid. 15s.
puie solid silver, smile design, 20s. Exlra heavy 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated JAM SPOON and BUTTER KNIFE,
nicely engraved and beaded, in Silk-lined case 12s 6d.
Similar 7s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
itf e
wa
jßoarif
■WSB
&
St®
M
A.. SAUNDERS.
Puie Silver-plated BREAD BOARD and KNIJjE
complete, 235. Other .styles, 80s. 335, £2.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLED AND
SILVERSMITH,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE REDFERtf
railway station./


N.S. W. should insist that its Minister for Justice
shall be a layman. Lawyer after lawyer takes
the job, and leaves the legion of anomalies and
absurdities just where he found them. A layman
may, of course, be a do-nothing and see-nothing,
like Lee, but a lawyer is almost sure to be of that
shape and build. The other day a woman, charged
with stealing from a haberdashery in the
Sydney suburbs, was fined £3 in the police
court. That woman can appeal. A man was
fined £2 for gambling—he also can appeal. But
next day the stipendiary fines a woman £3O for
sly grog-selling—and she cannot, under the law,
appeal. She must pay up, or go to gaol. A
layman Minister for Justice might want to
know why that distinction exists, and, when
he heard the lame legal justification of it, he
would probably move for an early amendment of
the system. Almost every week he would detect
in the conduct of the police courts one or another
outrageous anomaly. F. B. Suttor and Garvan,
both laymen, brushed down some cobwebs from
the windows of Justice in their terms of office, but
the lawyer Ministers regard cobwebs as having
vested interests, even when the things are proved
to be cobwebs. The law is often an ass, and the
legal Minister of Justice has the advantage of
comprehending the ass. Against that, however,
he has the disadvantage that he was brought up
with the ass and regards its bray as beautiful.
He is a tainted witness, for he owes to the ass his
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
The business capacity of the late Philp
Government! Only a few weeks ago the Queens-
land Printing Office used linotypes for the first
time. Q. Hansard is still set up by hand at nearly
three times the cost of linotyping. And yet the
Philp Government was proud of its repute as a
sharp “beezness” combination.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
fcc. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per b >x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents *. ELLIOTT BKOS., Sydney. Purchasers snould
look for Unregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on vach box. <Regd copyrigh**.
RUN-AWAY PRICES
This Month
to Advertise
our
Ostrich
Tips
3 Tips with
Ospreys,
Black, Cream,
or Black tipped
with White.
The Bulletin
A MARVEL OF CHEAPNESS.
The Bunch
Post Free.
2/6
Postal Note.
Write To-Day.
New Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention Tiie Bulletin.
LADIES'
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Te 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi.
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, huma
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
680-682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
Day Shirt, from 4/- Tennis Shirt, from 4/6
VERTEX CELLULAR SU^" S '„ R IRTS
Full Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
BRAHAM & oo„
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agent in N.S. W.
FITS CURED
permanenth?th!° 8e ° f ° zerine fits lt has cured
Sw 61 J , e verv worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices? 4/6 and 11/-
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I w. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
111
i
OF
LSK
'MATURES
PLEASANT)
LAXATIVE”
THE ORIGINAL
; AND
GENUINE*.
California Syrup of Figs acts
gently, pleasantly and most benefi-
cially on the Liver, Kidneys and
Bowels, and permanently overcomes
Habitual Constipation.
Words of Advice
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS,
and see that the package bears the well-
known Name and Trade Mark of the
California Fig Syrup Co. Imitations ara
numerous, but as you value your health
cannot risk taking a substitute. Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs is sold in Aus-
tralia in two sizes at 13 and 1/11.
Worthless substitutes ara often offered
at less as an inducement.
California Fig Syrup Co. , 33 Snow Hill, London. Anstralia-7 Barrack St., Sydney.
TORTURE.
N° torture can be compared to the loop drawn out suffering caused by continued illness. It would
be difficult, for instance, to imagine any torture which we would not sooner undergo than to sufferdav
f ,“ g the excruciating pain of Rheumatism for 24 years, as experienced by Mrs. Elizabeth
dated 14th ' KS ' W " “* % l>« I- «- foUo»i„g !„tter,
“Previous to leaving England, about 40 years ago, I was a great sufferer from Rheumatism,
which continued to trouble me for about 24 years after my arrival in Australia. I consulted several
doctors, but they all failed to do ine any good. I also tried various advertised remedies with the
same unsatisfactory result, and despaired of ever getting relief from the pain. At length I tried
Warners Safe Cure-for vvhat reason I cannot tell you, because I did not expect to get any more
benefit from it than from the many other medicines I had taken. I was, however, very pleased to
notice a decided change for the better after a short course of Warner’s Safe Cure. The pains slowly
but surely left me, and at last I became quite free from them. This happened 16 years ago, and I can
honestly say that I have not suffered in the slightest degree from Rheumatism since that time, so that
I have to thank Warner s Safe Cure for perfectly and permanently curing me. I may say that my
address”* 7 W ® U kU ° Wn ™ Alexandr,a > as 1 have for 40 years resided within half-a-mile of my present
There is, however, no necessity for anyone to suffer now, like Mrs. Bosher did. Rheumatism is
defocM* J&n of uSlridney* J n>t "‘ tion in B>,stem ot unWy t " >isona °" m * *"
Rheumatism
Gout
Lumbago
Sciatica
Gravel and Stone
Bladder Troubles
are all of this family, and are most painful complaints, but eaoh speedily yields to treatment by
Warner’s Safe Cure
An ther family of disorders comprises
Indigestion
Biliousness
Sick Headache
Anaemia and Debility
Jaundice
Neuralgia
w )ich are produced by tbo failure of the liver to rid tl e body of biliary poisons, and Warner's
Sjfe Cure cures them all, simply because Warner’s Safe Cure restores to health and activity the
KIDNEYS AND THE LIVER.
The work apportioned by Nature to the kidneys and liver is that of dealing with, converting
extracting, and removing waste matter produced in the body by wear and tear of the tissues. It con-
sequently follows that when the kidneys and liver are perfectly performing their task, none of the
disorders mentioned can trouble us, as the causative poisons are absent.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to diseases of the kidneys and
liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
Safe Cure. At the outset of the investigation, it was realised that it was necessary to find a curative
agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these two organs being so
intimately associated in removing the waste products of the body. Warner’s Safe Cure possesses the
desired property in its fullest degree. It acts beneficially alike upon the kidneys and liver, restoring
them to their original activity, and enabling them to rid the body, by natural means, of all urinary
and poisons. This is the reason why there is no necessity for anyone to suffer from
Rheumatism, Gout, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia
Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles, Anaemia, Debility, Indigestion, or Torpid Liver’
provided Warners Safe Cure is taken as directed. Even Bright's Disease yields to treatment bv
Warner s Safe Cure. J
A Simple Test to make as to the condition of the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the
first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until the next morning. If it is then
cloudy, shows a brick-dust like sediment, if particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural colour
the kidneys are unhealthy, and no time must be lost in taking Warner’s Safe Cure, or Bright’s
Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful manifestation of their inactivity will
result* i
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
Posted to a ny State, Es.
J. W. CASE) Chemist, 140 Wickham-st,, Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
The Importing Craze.
Just now Australia is, to the knowledge of every
one, in considerable difficulties. A larger propor-
tion of its people are supplied with artificial em-
ployment out of loans than in any other country
on earth, and yet there isn’t enough work to sup-
port the remainder. The unemployed question is
still with us, and the only possible remedy for
lack of employment is more work. That is as
self-evident as the fact that the only remedy for
hunger is food, and the only remedy for thirst is
something to drink. And here Australia strike s
hard against the fiscal question which it has to
decide all over again at the approaching election.
It is a dead certain thing that if the Austra-
lian people made £10,000,000 worth of the goods
they now annually import, there would be
£10,000,000 a year worth more work in the
country. It is equally certain that, if there were
£10,000,000 less per annum sent out of the
country in payment for imports, there would be
£10,000,000 per annum more left in the country to
provide employment. Therefore the Protectionist
wants to reduce imports by putting heavy duties
on them. The Foreign-trader, on the other hand,
wants to increase imports by taking off duties,
to make less work in the country by supply-
ing more of our needs from abroad, and to
add to the amount that this already impoverished
country has to pay for foreign supplies.
The whole fiscal problem goes into that nutshell.
TJp to now Australia has, in proportion to popula-
tion, imported more foreign goods for its own use
(as distinguished from foreign goods imported to
be exported again) than any other country on
earth, and the Freetrade party urges that the
great blessing of its policy is that it will lead to
more imports. Australia has had a great and
riotous time. It has dug out more gold than almost
any other country on earth, and sent it away to
pay for imports. It has sold all the best ot
lands and sent the proceeds away to pay for
imports. It has accumulated, in proportion to
population, the Biggest Debt on Earth, and what
it hasn’t sent away to pay interest it has sent
away to pay for imports, and its people are
starving because the things they ought to male,
so that they can get work and wages, are im-
ported. If boots are imported the local boot-
maker must be unemployed, for man is not
a centipede and he only wants two boots at
once, whether they are locally-made or otherwise ;
and the Reid party urges the country to cut
down the duties so that more boots may be
imported. If clothes are imported, then the local
tailor isn’t required, for man only wants to wear
one suit at a time ; and if hats are imported, the
local hatter isn’t wanted, for man isn’t a Hydra,
and he only wears one hat simultaneously. The
Reid party demands that the duties shall be cut
down to increase the imports of boots
and hats. Last year, the Commonwealth
exported about £44,000,000 worth of goods, of
which about £13,000,000 worth were required to
pay interest on public and private foreign debts,
leaving £31,000,000 worth to pay for imports.
It imported about £42,000,000 worth, and bor-
rowed about £11,000,000 in England to cover the
difference. Therefore it increased its foreign
debt by £11,000,000, and at the same time, and by
the same process, deprived about 90,000 people of
the employment they would otherwise have at
making these £11,000,000 worth of goods. Immi-
grants, naturally, don’t come to Australia in any
great numbers. Only a small proportion of people
want to “go on the land’’—especially in a
country of ghastly droughts. And to almost
every kind of artisan who proposes to come here,
Australia says: “We don’t want iron-workers,
or brass-workers, or shipbuilders, or cotton-
spinners, or silk-spinners, or makers of linen
and jute and woollen goods; we import these
things. We don't want boot-makers or tailors;
we import so much of these things that we have
barely enough work for our own artisans and their
sons. We hardly require anybody, for we import
more per head for ourown use than any other white
nation on earth, and consequently we have less
work to offer than any other white nation on
earth. And we have an elderly political clown
named Reid who promises to increase imports,
and make the local artisan even more superfluous
than he is now.” And when he hears this
the European artisan naturally stays away, and
leaves Spruce Myth, the Foreign-trader, wailing
that immigration ia retarded by “a socialistic
policy.”
The Crown and the Half-Crown.
There is bitter dissension in the camp of
the “British Empire League,” of which Mr.
Spruce Myth is President. The other day he
had to give a Presidential address, and instead of
devoting it to “the Empire,” made it a violent
Foreign-trade speech. That caused some discon-
tent, and the malcontents began to investigate
things, and found, it is alleged, that the League—
the subscription to which is half-a-crown a year—
Is governed by a president who had not, up to Oct. 21,
1903, paid his half-crown. It has a long list of Hon. and
Right Hon. knights, etc., as vice-presidents, nine of
whom have not contributed their half-crowns to its funds.
It boasts a list of members of an executive council, nine
of whom have failed in like manner. Between February
25 and July 1 the total funds gathered into the coffers of
this League amounted to 16s. ; from July 1 to September
30 it gathered £llBs.
In short, the leading members of the League, who
represent that their loyalty to the Crown and
their enthusiasm for the Empire is so fervent that
they must give it organised expression, baulk on
the half-crown proof of devotion. Imperial fervor
that finds a collective cash expression at only
£l lBs. a year doesn’t threaten much to Australian
nationalism.
+
“F.C.” sends along a good large truth
Some of the preferential tariff propositions that reach
us from Britain are painfully silly. What benefit would
Australia gain from a 3d. per bushel preference over
Egyptian or Russian wheat? That preference would
hardly compensate for lower freights, let alone cheaper
labor. Australia would merely sell its surplus stocks
just as it does now—for what they would bring. And in
return for this fictitious preference on a product of which
we often have none to sell, Australia is to be invited to
stifle its present industries, and muzzle any new ones it
may hope to start. With a preferential tariff that really
was of some benefit to Britain’s great iron industry, for
example, what hope would there be for Australia’s pros-
pective ironworks? It would have the privilege of drag-
ing iron ore from the earth, just as it drags wheat out of
the soil, and this would be carried to the ends of the earth
in Britain’s ships to be manufactured, and then carried
back again, in Britain's ships. This blessed carrying to
and fro makes a tremendous “ commerce,” and gives some
work for the cheapest and coarsest kind of labor in hump-
ing the blessed cargo in and out and round about, but it
doesn’t increase the value of the article so humped by
one brass farthing. If Australia had, like Canada, a
protective tariff running up to 100 per cent, already in
existence, it could afford to give a 26 per cent, preference
without hurting its own industries—but it hasn’t. That
must be Australia’s keynote. Its own industries—pros-
pective as well as present—are all important. We have
the interests of the empire at heart, but we remember
that Australia is just aa much a part of the empire as
Britain i
“Pucha” writes from Maoriland :
The opposition to the running of the Auckland trams
on Sundays was not confined to Scotchbyterians, as your
par. on the subject would suggest. The keenest opposi-
tion came from the ranks of labor, where the tram co. is
anything but popular. The co.’s motto is “Exploitation
all the time.” I should like to know how many of the
workers are paid for extra time, or allowed a holiday
without deduction of pay during the remaining six days
of the week. It is now some months since I have been
in Auckland, but before I left I was informed that tram-
way employees were frequently kept for a month or more
on “probation” at a low wage, or no wage, and after,
perhaps, a week’s further engagement they were often
dismissed. The tramway co. is a branch of that huge
monopoly, the British Electric Traction Co., and is
reputed to have already exercised a sinister influence on
Auckland municipal life. Of course, the initial mistake
of selling a public monopoly to a private company
accounts for the greater part of this trouble. Wellingtf n
and Dunedin, fjjjlowing up the policy of municipalisation
so successfully pursued in England, have wisely decided
to retain their tramways for the municipality ; ’ and, as a
corollary, to keep their local politics free from the dis-
fcn-Hfnn* •-.fln/.n/.o nf n nrivnfp mnn'wmlv.
The decoration of W. F. Massey with his
new hat of office as leader of M.L. Opposition
was celebrated by an elegant entertainment in
a Wellington tavern, the courtly, nice-man-
nered knight Russell being in the prize seat.
Massey looked as spruce as a freshly-scraped car-
rot ; he spoke about the Constitution, and pro-
phesied the early appearance of the hectic of
decay on the infuriated countenance of the pre-
sent Administration, and anticipated thatSeddon
would fade away (politically) like Little Eva.
But later on he made a horrible admission. The
Opposition, he said, wasn’t anxious for hoffis,
because it had no policy ready. But he promised
to hunt up some kind of a policy in time for next
election, and when the party, which hasn’t had a
policy for 12 years, heard that it was really
threatened with one at last, it just boiled over
with excitrment.


photos from life.
for lovers of art and beauty.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 8 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
B, CENNERT, 89C Fauby, St. Martin, Parle, Franoe
[ennon’s Hotel, B ris ° ane »
rdS"sT«^« v . i ‘ , .u
central position recommends it to Commercial
Men and Families. Trams pass the door-a penny
section to any part ot the City.
s. M. COLLINS, Proprietor.
SPECTACLES
The Bulletin
—TOE—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, r.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-.
Rt,motions and Price List, our marvellously-acourate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
Bv its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to —
H. A* BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcada
The Bulletin
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers*
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Ooilins-et, Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st, Sydney.
The Bulletin
<3-0 TO HC33LL-
KiOf-ANI) for I’ret ty Stamps, but
if you want real trood stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
'4 EJizabeth-st., Sydney.
istralian Stamps Bought. Prloe-Lists gratis.
The Bulletin’s Christmas number will be
issued on 'December 10th, and, as already the rush
for extra copies has set in, early application is
necessary to ensure supplies. It will contain the
largest and best selection of the work of the
picture, song and story artists of Australia ever
issued to the public of this continent, and without
it no holiday will be complete.
THEY MAKE YOU FEEL GOOD.
The pleasant purgative effect experienced by-
all who use CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH
and LIVER TABLETS, and the healthy condi-
tion of the body and mind which they create
make one feel joyful.
Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets are
“Just What You Need.”*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE. ,
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The pitcher that goes too often to the
■well is broken at last. N.S.W. may vote for
I’reetrade once too often, AND MAY GET IT.
“Liar,” “hog,” “dirty cur,” “sexual
maniac ” were among the expressions that
garnished the last days of the session in N.S.W. s
House of Curses and Cat-fights.
Said that one of the Federal Ministers is
opposed by a gentleman who, to put it mildly, is
not exactly financial and that the wild whirl of
tlio contest may be suddenly ended by a ca. sa.
writ.
Campbell Bannerman’s charge that Cham-
berlain’s demand for Protection is a “slander” on
the stability of Britain is very like the charge of
John See in a rage when anyone says the New
South Wales finances are lopsided.
If the Reid party fails at this election it
is reported that George Yes-No will throw up
Australian politics and try to re-enter the State
Assembly, where he can attend to his prac-
tice with one hand and brush away “Joey ” Car-
ruthers with the other.
So violent is the sectarian row in N.S.W.
Assembly nowadays, that draper Law lately
descried the Hand of Rome in the construction of
a footbridge at Queanbeyan because.it was near a
convent. Somebody will yet lose his few remain-
ing senses over this Hand of Rome.
The fight between Trenwith and the Age
is with bare fists, and Victoria regards it as the
principal test of David Syme’s influence in local
Commonwealth elections. The candidate s advt.
is combative —-“You have read the Age on Tren-
with ; come and hear Trenwith on the Age ! ”
Dr. Mackellar fooled the people of
N.S.W. sinfully in accepting a Senate seat and
then refusing to face the electors. By this action
he practically ruined the chances of the. National
party at the Senate poll. Reason of his backing
down is said to be that he goes to London shortly
to chase a title.
MADDENING.
During Governor Clarke'sabsence from Victoria Mr. J ohn
Madden will act. — News Item.
HIS EX . : “ Don't you think you'd better put a
little more wax on my moustache in view of
my present exalted position?”
BARBER: “Ho, no, sir. You see, sir, your 'air,
sir, is so constitooted, sir, that the amount o'
natural oil, sir,” &c., &c.
English Law Times, Oct. 3, 1903, states
that the Royal assent was refused to Irvine’s
Constitution Reform Bill. If that is so and the
Law Times seldom makes a mistake—what in-
duced the Crown to subsequently alter its deci-
sion ? Did Cohen wait on John Bull and plead
the cause of Irvine ?
The Irvine Government’s idea of com-
pelling the relatives of old age pensioners to con-
tribute towards the pensions, isn’t turning out a
success. Of £215,754 distributed in pensions
during the last financial year, only £1229 was
recovered in this way, and it probably cost more
than that to recover it.
At the Referendum to be taken re the
reduction of the membership of N.S.W. Assembly,
the lowest number that anybody is allowed to
vote for is 90. The best possible advice is, there-
fore, to vote for 90. To carry that means that
there may be 35 less hoodlums in the Assembly,
and 35 hoodlums is an item.
T. E. Roseby, who is standing in the
National interest for Lang, has a good chance
of success. Though he is the son of the best-
known Congregational minister in the State,
Roseby is being bitterly opposed by two howling
Protestant sectaries. That opposition, and his
ability, and the merit of the cause he advocates
should put him in. '
From “Argo”:
I rise to protest against the insults levelled by the dis-
ciples of G. Reid against the intellects of the people.
Each and every one of them brings along the six hatters—
tin poor men who were kept out of Australia. Do these
people think their remarks are believed? We all know
they were not kept out—as I write they are probably hard
at work making silk “deckers” for the gentlemen who
say they were not let in.
Tile Anglican Bishop of Goulburn, talking
at. Albury, said that N.S.W. had “a good case
for breach of promise, if not for divorce, because
the capital site had not yet been chosen.”
’Slordship of Goulburn evidently believes in the
system under which some marriages among Con-
tinental sovereigns have been arranged—an heir
inside a couple of years, or a Let’s see
now if he has the pluck to advocate that.
The argument that women “simply
couldn’t ’’ attend to Parliamentary duties is not a
sound one. If there were women members of
Parliament ’tissafe to say they wouldn’t be absent
from the House “for family reasons ” oftenerthan
male members are for fag, or holiday, or mere
laziness reasons. Bruce Smith has been absent
quite as much as could be expected if he were a
lady bringing up infant twins on the bottle.
Victoria has fallen in. In a wild and
whirling moment it enacted that every Vic. civil
servant transferred to the Commonwealth should
be paid the highest wages paid to anybody of his
class in Australia, and quite forgot that the money
would come out of its own Commonwealth refund.
The court has just decided that the law holds
good to such an extent that Victoria will have to
be charged £60,000 arrears of salary due to trans-
ferred officials.
In the coming elections, for the first time
in N.S. Wales, the voter is to put a cross against
the name of the candidate for whom he is voting.
The Senate paper is to be white, the Representa-
tives paper pink. In every State except Victoria
three crosses must be made on the Senate paper;
in Victoria, four. One cross only may be made
on the Reps, (pink) paper. The full number of
Senators required must be voted for; plumping is
illegal, and the vote won’t count.
Malkum M‘Eacharn, with the aid of Mrs.
Mac, is working hard to capture the women’s
vote in Melbourne electorate. But the women
remember that Malkum fought against woman’s
suffrage even when there was no longer any hope
of defeating it, and voted with the hopeless
minority to the last. On the other hand, Dr.
Maloney has been a battler for woman’s franchise
all along, and the sex with the hair-pin and the
bangle remembers him gratefully on that account.
“ Australian ” writes :
The decision to hold the Federal elections on Dec. 16,
which means a holiday, is terribly disappointing to the
public of N.S.W. The first test match is set down for
Dec. 11, and the least Deakin could have done was to
have selected the 11th or 13th for his fool of an election.
There is yet time to alter the commencement of the game
to Saturday, the 12th, and, by judicious spinning out of
the play, leave the match in an interesting state for the
Wednesday holiday. But this would be a bore. I would
like to know what Warner thinks of letting the test
match play second fiddle to the old election. 1 shall vote
for Reid after this.
Should any woman candidate succeed in
entering the Australian Parliament, some exten-
sive alterations will have to be made as regards
accommodation at the big top-o’-Bourke-street
building. Special rooms will have to be set apart,
and a new mirror must be provided for the fair
Senator to fix her hat on straight. Also, notices
will have to be provided stopping smoking and
bad language in the lobbies. The last-mentioned
injunction will be particularly irksome to one or
two members.
Poor old William M’Culloch, of the Vic-
torian House of Rich Landlords, who is standing
for the Senate as a White Australian who favors
black labor on mail-boats, a State rights upholder
who wants to federalise all loans, and a Protec-
tionist who believes in lowering the tariff, was in
the middle of a magnificent peroration at Sale
(Vic.), t’other day, when some monster of iniquity
rang a false alarm on the fire-bell. In two minutes
not a soul remained in the hall—and the audience
didn’t come back.
Says Sydney Telegraph :
“ Ask Mr. Reid what are his proposals,” said Mr. Wise
at Raudwick. Exactly. Ask anybody but Mr. Deakin.
This is mere red herring. Under the alleged
Braddon blot (which George Reid voted for) a 9J
millions tariff is necessary, unless the Common-
wealth imposes direct taxation, and both Deakin
and Reid say they won’t do so. Deakin says he
will keep on raising 9J millions in the present
fashion. Those are his proposals. Reid damns
the present fashion, therefore what are his pro-
posals ?
The lately-formed Victorian Clerks’ Union
(affiliated with the Trades Hall) is much more
alive than many of the older societies. The
recent issue to clerks of an Employers’ Union
manifesto, coolly assuming that the sweated quill-
drivers’ interests are at one with those of their
“masters” and desiring their vote and in-
terest in the campaign against “socialistic
legislation” has moved the committee to speak
severely to certain employers, and explain
to them that the Federal Electoral Law is quite a
different thing from the State ditto. It makes
undue influence a severely punishable offence, and
some of these employers may presently find them-
selves in a large, deep hole.
A contribution to the gaiety of nations by
Mrs. Martel, a N.S.W. Federal candidate, in the
Watchman :
I suppose I should take it as a compliment to my strength
when Rome is so anxious to crush me.
Mrs. Martel is out in the Foreign-trade interest,
and it seems to be one of the stock delusions of
the importing crowd that “Rome” badly wants
this Protestant country to put up fiscal barriers
round itself so as to shut out the goods of the
European R.C. person; and that the sure way to
hit “Rome” in the eye with a dirty left is to
establish Freetrade, so that the R.C. of France,
Belgium, Italy, Bavaria, &c., can rush his goods
into our market, and make a large profit thereby. 3
BAD COMPANY.
ME. REID’S ATTITUDE.
LONDON, November 6. —The Radical press derides Mr.
Chamberlain for claiming G. H. Reid as an Australian
suppor[?] of imperial reciprocal tariffs.
THE RADICAL PERSS: “ That hoy Reid is not at
all suitable company for you; and , besides,
he tells untruths."
“Billy” Crosby, M.L.C. (Tasmania), has
begun to say things that sound like a wind blow,
ing through the ribs of the Dead Chamber’s
skeleton. Not content with expressing his
“regrets” that the House of Dodery so con-
tinuously rejects Bills that have been passed by
the Assembly, he has talked' severely about
“playing at Parliament,’’ and hints that the
people may get sick at measures being so often
bandied from one House to the other. The Hon.
Bill forgets that the people can’t get, having
already got.
Mr. Macarthur Onslow, Freetrade candi-
date for the Gwydir seat in the Reps., told a
Moree (N.S.W.) audience that he had some tea
plants growing on his estate, and would be pre-
pared to start the industry in N.S.W. “if sufficient
inducement were offered.” All the Freetraders,
from the owners of the Freetrade papers upwards,
seem to be of the same kidney—strong believers
in Freetrade for the other fellow and in Protection
for themselves. Possibly if (a big “if ”) Freetrader
Onslow is returned Freetrader Reid will oblige
him with Protection for his tea plantation.
On the figures of last elections ex-State
Labor-leader Batchelor (S. A.) ought to down Sud-
den Solomon for Boothby ; in the polling places in
that district Batchelor was then fifth on the list
with Solomon sixth. For one district (Angas)
Solomon got up as high as fifth ; but Glynn, who
headed the poll there, has pegged out that claim.
In the seven S.A. electorates, now constituted for
the first time, Kingston at the last elections, (when
the whole State polled as one electorate), was first
in four, Holder in two (including Wakefield, for
which he is running), and Glynn in the seventh.
Joseph Chamberlain, at Glasgow
I see that the Labor leaders, or some of them, in this
country, are saying the interest of the working class
is to maintain our present system of free imports.
When these men go to the colonies I will undertake to
say that not one of them has been there for six months
without singing a different tune. The vast majority of
working men in all the colonies are Protectionists.
Well, I am not inclined to accept the easy explanation of
that—that they are all fools. I do not understand why
an intelligent man—a man who is intelligent in this coun-
try—becomes an idiot when he goes to Australasia, but I
will tell you what he does do. He gets rid of a good
number of old-world prejudices and superstitions.
From the evidence of A. E. Nash, Aus-
tralian manager for an English silver-plate and
cutlery-manufacturing firm, in the conspiracy case
now before N.S.W. court•’
Knew American watchep- to-be landed in England at
17s. 9d. and sold for 50s. . •
Yet, if there is one thing Freetraders are sure
about, it is that Freetrade means cheap prices to
the consumer ! And here it is proved that the
swindling importers and middlemen in the Free-
trade country made nearly 200 per cent, on the
price at which the Protectionist country supplied
the goods.
Sydney Telegraph, re-telling the Six
Hatters lie, which by this time it must have
quite persuaded itself is the truth :
Mr. Reid has specifically announced that he would
endeavor, if placed in office, to repeal two enactments
specially dear to the Labor party, and which were only
carried by the cordial co-operation of that party with the
Government. One of these enactments is the notorious
section of the Immigration Restriction Act by which it
was sought to keep the six hatters out of the Common-
wealth.
The Six Hatters clause was passed with the
“cordial co-operation” of the Opposition, the
party whip, Pumpkin Smith, voicing its approval
most particularly. A fact which is quite as
“ notorious ” as the clause the party now professes
to object to.
“ Victorian ” writes :
As usual, on the eve of a general election, that noisome
animal, the Yellow Pup, emerges from its lair to raise
sectarian strife in the ranks of .the workers. Why
it is that the “followers” of the lowly Nazarene
always are so willing to bear envy, hatred, malice,
and all uncharitableness towards their fellows is hard
to understand, and the ever-recurring obscene joke
which they use (it is a joke as old as King David) is
beyond comprehension. Let the workers, men and
women, reflect one moment as to the side on which the
Church (as misrepresented by the ravings of the hysterical
parson) has ever stood in industrial warfare. These lip
followers of the First Socialist —with tew, very few,
honorable exceptions—are on the side of boodle. The
symbol of their worship is not the cross, but the collec-
tion plate. With one accord they pray, “ Lord, I thank
Thee that I am not as other men, a publican and a
■inner.” Yet year after year the same frayed red herring
is drawn across the trail, and the animosity of another
hemisphere and generation serves to disorganise the
workers once again till one almost puts down religion as
one of the social evils of our time.
Fifty-seven years ago, on ld,
Colonel Barney hoisted the Union Jack at Glad-
stone, the capital of a new colony to be called
North Australia. Statesman Gladstone originated
the idea, but so little hold had it on him that he
didn’t know whether it was a success or the
reverse. Barney was also an indifferent pioneer.
Major de Win ton, first in command, was a rollick-
ing good fellow, but he felt much happier in the
barracks at Wynyard Square, Sydney. Maurice
O’Connell sat down at Gladstone as Government
Resident, but was out of sorts most of the time,
and his able and experienced wife thought the
place an exile. Naturally the new colony soon
lost its identity and the map of Australia doesn t
know it. It is just as well the Gladstone scheme
petered out, for the glimmer of design with which
it was supported laid out a tropical region where
sugar and cotton could be grown and niggers
walloped ad libitum.
The distress of the Foreign-trade leaders
in Victoria just now is terrible to see. By dint of
much beating-up they managed to get out one or
two candidates for the House of Reps, in the
Foreign-trade interests. When they came to get
candidates for the Senate, however, they were
badly gravelled. No one could be found willing
to carry the banner of the Dry Dog party ; no one
cared to fight to let in the “ pure, fresh breeze of
competition.” After much hard toil four ‘ sound
Tories were unearthed who were prepared to
“ sink the fiscal issue.” At any rate, they agreed
to come out on the “ fiscal peace and prosperity
ticket. Victoria, therefore, has the spectacle of
an Importers’ party fighting to put in Foreign-
trade candidates for the House of Reps, in order
that they may stir up fiscal strife for all they re
worth, and at the same time fighting just as rabidly
to put four men into the Senate who will insist on
leaving the tariff alone.
Extract from leading article, entitled
‘‘Lost Industries,” in Sydney Telegraph:
The most enthusiastic Freetrader could not wish for
a better testimonial to the economic and practical
soundness of the British policy than is represented in the
triumphant manner in which it stands all inquiry and
attack.
Then why, in the name of all that is wonderful,
doesn’t the Telegraph find and put up even one
Freetrade candidate who will undertake to vote
straight for applying to Australia that sound
British policy ? Britain raises about four-fifths of
its revenue by direct taxation. Its few
customs duties are—or were till quite recently
balanced in every case by equal excise duties.
There is no Protection for beer, wine, tobacco,
sugar, cigars, biscuits, confectionery, or news-
papers as in N.S. W. under Reid, no reduced
railway rates for local produce, no seed-wheat
grants, no free paper-trains. Why does not the
Telegraph propose trying the fiscal policy that it
has been admiring all these years ? Example is
better than shriek.
The National Ass has three men braying
for the Senate in S.A. (Charleston, Copley and
Caldwell), and the Labor party is running Guthrie,
M‘Gregor and Storey. Then Single-taxer Craw-
ford Vaughan and Catton Grasby, a newspaper
owner, are standing independently, while ex-
Chief-Secretary J. V. O’Loghlin, and ex-Bible-
Christian parson Joe Hancock, are also spoken
of. The general idea is that Charleston and
M‘Gregor, retiring Senators, will go back again
with Sailor Bob Guthrie. At last election (1901)
the figures were i— Charleston, 29,153 ; M‘Gregor,
26,264 ;
21,102;
11,874.
O’Loghlin, 21,871; Caldwell,
Copley, 20,807 ; Vaughan,
STRIKING THE RIGHT NOTE.
*- Mr. Seddon, after intimating that the demand for an
alteration came from the rabid prohibitionists, went on-
to say that he had come to the conclusion, after years of
observation, that no Legislative Council was required at
all. He had arrived at the decision that the Legislative
Council should be abolished, and in its stead should be
established a body with a high knowledge of constitu-
tional practice and with extensive legal knowledge. This
body should have no powers at all except to point out
where any effect intended by the House would not lie
secured. Such a question could be placed before the-
people by the Referendum Bill.”


Paling’s
Victor I.
Piano
(Patented).
Overdamper check
action, full iron
frame, trichord,
ivory keys, best
burr walnut case,
3 pedals-
One of the grand-
est instruments for
wear ever imported.
Specially made to
our order, of the
best materials, in
up-to-date Factories.
#
Catalogues Free.
Sold on Easy Terms.
*
Old Pianos taken in
exchange and full value
allowed.
***#
Paling'*s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
A Fine
Violin
£1 s 11 : 6
"STUDENT'S”
MODEL.
Complete with Bow*
Case* Resin and Set
of Extra Strings.
Post Free to any
town in N.S.W.
£1 : 11 s 6.
Write for Handsome
illustrated catalogue
post free
PALING’S
338 GEORGE ST.*
SYDNEY.
Estey
Organs
AT...
Paling’s.
We are Sole Agents
for these celebrated
Organs.
They are made in a
large variety of models,
ranging in price
£9 T -° £ 1 35
You can buy them on
easy terms if you wish.
Every Estey Organ
we sell is fully guaran-
teed aga.nst bad work-
manship or defective
material.
Over a Quarter of
a Million Estey Organs
made and sold.
Catalogues Free.
Old Organs taken in
exchange.
****
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Read What Vitadatio
.. Is Doing, ♦,
Bright’s Disease
CONQUERED AGAIN BY
VITADATIO
Read what fir. W. Hills has to say.
Mandwrah Road,
Freemantle,
„ „ . 18/3/1901.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Dear Sir, —Having suffered from Bright's Disease of the
Kidneys in an aggravated form and having tried many
so-called cures, I felt it my duty to inform you that after
a course of VITADATIO I obtained great relief, which
now appears to be permanent, and I am now so well, as to
be able to attend to my business, the duties of which are
no sinecure.
You are at liberty to make what use you please of this
letter as I consider that anyone troubled with kidney
complaints cannot do better than give Vitadatio a fair
trial.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) VV. MILLS.
Of Mills, and Ware,
Biscuit Manufacturers,
Freemantle, W.A.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALM Eli,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N. ,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
1
H
AMERICAN
NANN HAMMOCKS
MAKE LIFE WORTH LIVING.
The Acme of Comfort.
A Fine Christmas Presen;
We send any where carriage
paid.
Instantly Convertible from
bitting to Reclining position.
Hold i
its full
width
at all
times. Has adjustable arms and padded head rest. A
swinging Arm Chair, conforming to the bodv, and res
you all ever. Made of fancy striped duck, and stron
enough for heavy people. Size—7 feet x3l inches.
Packs into a space 31 inches x 1 foot x 4 inches.
C PRICES:
No. 1, Fancy Duck, (no fringe) 15 ,
No. 40, better material, with fringe .. .. 13,' r
No. 50, best quality material, with handsome
valance and fringe " <%\ .
Carriage paid to any address in Australia, Tasmania, 01
New Zealand. Address all orders to—
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY, Sole Agents,
229*231 Collins Street, Melbourne.
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is something better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Oor. Swan a ton and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late IHPERIAL),
Corner of GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE
‘SWAN’
PEN USERS never go
back to dipping.
*
$
This u
Not a
Bayonet
Charge—
It is rt
merely a
necessary trip to »
L the ink -well when
; using the old stylo
* pen. Avoid this,
save time by using
fouHTAix Eetf
Always Ready—Always Sura.
MABIE, TODD tf BARD,
London and Manchester, England.
. Sold by Stationers, Jewellers, and Importers,
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
65., P. 0.0. or stamps.
3. R-CKNAGEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brioffach, Germany
THE CALLAGHAN BOOT
FOR
MEN
RIGHT AWAY
«
1
: =
SvViii
POST
AND
DUTY
FREE
EXCEPT W.A.
FOR
23/6
IN TAN,
24/6
Fine French Calf,
Stylish Appearance,
Very long wear, and
We can fit you to a nicety,
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS,
Through our Mail Order System, can have a pair of
these boots sent to them, closely examine them,
FIT THEM ON. They can exchange them, or we
can r« c und their money.
Owr Mail Orders always go right.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 georce st., syoney. 5


Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
Tor NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-streec.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TEityMS.
WE
$
a*
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
asr.s,'w.
(I]ont deplete Co., Ltd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITISU. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,354
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
£693 351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessof, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, \V. N.
M‘Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
and
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BOItItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,025,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,025,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, STDNFT.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. _J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office— GEOKGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. • • 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,330,000 0 tl
Reserve Liability .. .. .. •• 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,330,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Ciias. K. Mackkllar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Oottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji ; and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, eirculai
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business. -
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Giroulai
Notes in sums.of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOR:
Price, -Is. 6d.
Shipping.
KT. 33. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
S.S. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 9th DECEMBER.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to Sail on or about 16th DECEMBER,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and AERIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Claes of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoonsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rplIE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach,
j Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
I by tram. Billiards, etc.
Q CEA.KTIC
THE
STEA. IVES HIP
A. AND aT LINE.
fast mail
COMPAKTY.
line:.
Sydney to Auckland
Auckland to Pago Pago
Samoa to Panning Island ..
Fanning Island to Honolulu
Honolulu to San Francisco
Overland to New York
New York to London
Passengers can break '
.. .. days.
.. .. 4 days.
.. 4 days.
.. 2£ days.
.. .. 5£ days.
.. .. 4 days.
.. .. 6 days,
journey en route.
The Bulletin
Elaborately appointed Staterooms for occupancy of not more than TWO Passengers.
No Steamers on the Pacific compare with our “ Sister Ships,” Sierra, Sonoma, Ventura. The NEWEST, LARGEST
(6200 tons), FASTEST, AND ONLY STEAMERS HAVING TWIN-SOREWS WITH TWO SETS OF
INDEPENDENT ENGINES.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-OLASS LINE.
Send for Illustrated Matter, including New Publication, “ If Not, Why Not ? ” Post Free, 3d.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
‘—THE—*
•Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robsrts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. ltoss Milucr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305 —assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
(119 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building’s, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital _ .. £2,500,000
file Bank of QorthQaeensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Cannt. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250.000 ... £350,000
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, hears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWNS.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS oi
Sept. 28 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to ba
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodvnk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saveß
Extraction, Sleepless Night*
Prevented.
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
Neuralgic Headaches&allNerve
Pains removed by BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
"As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, itf.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYES WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac
Of all Stores.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
ic ALL-RED” ROUTE
AORANGI, DECEMBER 28
The Cheapest Route to America and
Great Britain*
THE FAVORITE ROUTE ACROSS
THE PACIFIC.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
JANUARY 25, FEBRUARY 22.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con=
venient and Healthy Locality.
flodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“Don’t shout”
" I hear you. 1 can heat now
as well as anybody.
‘ How >• Oh some-
thingnew— The Wilson *"
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
— they're invisible. 1 wouldn't
know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts ot the
natural ear. Has no
wire Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
1 different from any other de-
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
I vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CHAIHfgS. 229-231 Collins. SI., Help.
HYPNOTISM.
“DERSONAL MAGNETISM, Etc. By our system you
can learn this wonderful Science at home. It enables
you to cure Diseases, Bad Habits, such as DRUNKEN-
NESS, win Reluctant Affection, create amusement, make
friends and money, and gratify your highest ambitions.
We absolutely guarantee success. Our book on Hyp-
notism, Personal Magnetism, etc., Richly Illustrated
throughout with Photos from Life of Persons Hypnotised,
is the finest work of its class ever issued, is intensely in-
teresting, and has been the means of starting thousands
on the road to success. Send for Book, post free, and
test for yourself this remarkable power. The American -
Institute of Science, Victoria Buildings, 63b Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOK MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping ab Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton,
Friday, Dec. 4, at 5 p.m.
(Transhipping at
Melbourne).
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, Dec. 5, at 10 a.m.
(Without Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Fridaj', Dec. 4,
at Noon.
rS.S. Rockton, December 12.
S.S. Innamincka, Dec. 19.
Beat and Cheapest ltonte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French GovernmenG, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE*
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Svdnev.
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
J
Soda Water Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs, —The machine purchased from you is per-
fection. The Stuff turned out is Splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Guo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says :—“ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says:—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says:—“Since getting one of
your Machines, and making our own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says :—“Machine great
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says :—“ Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says : —“Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says : —“Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
a good quality of Aerated AVaters. Observe the Profits.
Call and see these machines, or write for circular describ-
ng them, also Price List. Prices Reduced.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co-
-407 COLLINS-.STREET. MELBOURNE.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
The Bulletin
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 128., or four quantities in one, 303. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. „
Aqcnts for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; N.S. IK.—Faulcltng & Co., 16 0 Ccnnell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.


Digestive Tonic
w
into
Digestion converts food
blood, brain, muscle ; gives vigour, .
(vitality, health. Indigestion makes J
good food poison, breeds dolts, lag- "
gards, hobbling rheumatics, liverish
tempers, nerve-racking pains. Seigel’s
Syrup ensures digestion, dispels
disease, produces health,
SYRUP
“Six months back,” says Mr. John
Lennon, of 26, Comber Street, Padding-
ton, Sydney, “ I was caused great suf-
fering by acute dyspepsia. A friend
induced me to take Seigel’s Syrup
| and the effect was magical. After
a few doses every ache and pain
B vanished and I have had no rc- £
W turn of the complaint since."
L
For
Old and Young.
J
All the Benefits of Electric
Massage at Home by using:
THE NEW
Electric Massage Roller,
Anyone can use it without special knowledge.
m
m.
Just the thing for ladies with “ nerves ” and for “ brain-
fagged” men. Tones the nerves and muscles—self-
applied in an instant. Simply damp the roller and press
the button. The graduated scale regulates the current
from weak to strong as desired. Draw the roller along
the muscles or nerves, the current does the rest. Invalu-
able in cases of nervous headache, insomnia neuralgia,
and rheumatism. Removes wrinkles and crowsfeet,
stimulates the circulation, softening and whitening the
skin.
. Price only 258. complete.
(Highly polished—nickled plated—size 81 xlf inches).
Post free to any address in Australia, Tasmania or New
Zealand. Recharges, only 1/- each (1/4 post free).
Address all orders to .
STAR NOVELTY COM PA v Y,
229-231 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET OF
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, 30'" SEPTEMBER, 1903.
£ 8. d.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation
Deposits and Accrued
£ s. d.
928,227 0 0
Interest..
.. 20,628,463 0 7
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
include Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amounts at Credit of In-
vestments Fluctuation Account and
Officers’ Fidelity Guarantee and Provi-
dent Fund)
21,656,690 0 7
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Profit and Loss
£2,000,000 0 0
1,315,000 0 0
141,728 13 10
2,527,899 14 6
3.456,728 13 10
£27,541,318 8 11
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits and Endorsements,
as per Contra 784,901 13 0
£28,326,220 1 11
£ s. d.
ASSi'.TS. 4; 8. d.
Coin, Bullion, and Cash
Balances .. .. 4,195,455 15 3
Queensland Government
Notes 160,779 0 0
Notes of other Banks .. 32,527 0 0
Money at short call in
London 300,000 0 0
Investments British
and Colonial Govern-
ment Securities .. 1,645,158 12 6
Municipal and other
Securities .. .. 91,196 14 7
Due by other Banks .. 75,402 14 2
Bills Receivable in Lon-
don and Remittances
in transit .. .. 1,413,480 7 0
7,914,000 3 5
Bills Discounted, and Loans and Advances
to Customers 18,947,318 5 6
Bank Premises 680,000 0 0
£27,541,318 8 11
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit and Drafts, as per
Contra .. .. .. - - • • 784,901 13 0
£28,326,220 1 11
PROFIT AND LOSS, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1903.
Dr.
£ s. d.
1903.
Sept. 30.—T0 Rebate (at current rates) on
Bills Discounted not due at
this date .. .. .. 8,286 7 2
„ Dividend at the rate of 10 per
cent, per annum .. .. 100,000 0 0
Augmentation of the Reserve
Fund 15,000 0 0
~ Balance carried to “Profit
and Loss,” New Account .. 18,442 6 8
£141,728 13 10
1903.
March 31.
Sept. 30.
£ 8. d.
By Amount from last Account 16,072 6 3
By Balance of Half-year’s Pro-
fits after providing for Bad
and Doubtful Debts, reduc-
ing the Valuation of Bank
Premises, and including re- _
coveries from Debts previ-'
ously written off as Bad .. 125,656 8 7
£141,728 13 10
RESERVE FUND, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1903.
Ur.
Dr.
1903.
Sept. 30.
-To Balance
(Of which £600,000 is in-
vested in British Govern-
ment Securities, and the
balance is employed in the
business of the Bank.)
£ s. d.
1,330,000 0 0
£1,330,000 0 0
1903. £ s. d.
March 31. —By Balance .. .. ..1,315,000 0 0
Sept. 30.—8 y Amount from Profit and
Loss 15,000 0 0
£1,330,000 0 0
1903.
Sept. 30.—8 y Balance
.£1,330,000 0 0
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
AERTEX
The Original
CELLULAR.
Til Bultklut tod noil Comfortable Underwear for Men, Wooer end
Children.
The continually increasing popularity of Aertex Cellular Clothing
has led to numerous inferior imitations being sold under similar
names.
The public are warned against buying imitations when described
as “just as good as Aertea"
SOLE AGENTS:—
Illustrated Catalogues
and Patterns post free.
D. BRAHAM & CO
73 and 75 King: Street.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat, and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing, des-
troys the sense of taste and smell, renders the
breath offensive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal cartileges. The
discharge causes dyspepsia, also consumption
A great proportion of all Australians have
Catarrh in either the first stage or chronic
form. Probably 20 per cent, of all the people
we meet have but one good nostril —the other
is clogged with catarrhal deposits or by some
weakness whose parent was a neglected cold.
This forces them, perhaps unconsciously, to
breathe through the mouth, and unless at-
tended to, will result in lifelong annoyance
and serious trouble. Home treatment with
our Medicator will restore the organ to natu-
ral condition, and enable it to perform its
functions properly and healthfully.
CATARRH
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the treatment of Hay Fever,
Catarrh, Headache, Bronchitis,
Asthma, Colds, Coughs, Neural-
gia, Catarrhal Deafness, La
Grippe, etc. Restores lost taste
and smell. Sweetens cflensive
breath. It relieves and cures Ca-
tarrh, Hay Fever, Cold in the
Head,and all nasal inflamma-
tions, It soothes, cleanses
and heals. Contains no in-
jurious drugs.
Enough Compound Inhalent goes
with each Mediator to last rour
months, making this the CH E A PEST
and BEST REMEDY on the Market.
Thousands now in use, giving
perfect satisfaction.
P RIC E— Complete outfit, which
includes one Medicator, one bottle
of Inhalent, and one box of Oint-
ment ----- 10'-
Sent post free to any part of Aus-
tralia, Tasmania, or New Zealand,
on receipt of price.
The Bulletin
Medieator size, 3$ In. lone.
ADDRESS YOUR ORDER (accompanied by Commonwealth Postal Note or New Zealand
Money Order) to :
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
Premier Buildings,
229-231 COLLINS ST„ MELBOURNE.
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS
The Bulletin
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sneer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway's Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
giTam^akJg&ag
Stated before Justice Hodges the other
day that the clerk of petty sessions at Kaleno
(Vic.) is the local barber. And when a J.P.
who knows no law sits on the local bench, the
C.P.S., who knows all about hair-wash, presum-
ably supplies him with law.
The position of Whip in politics seems to
be considered a stepping-stone to something bettor.
J. 8. Hawthorne, Whip to the Reid party, retired
on being promoted to the Public Works Com-
mittee, and Austin Chapman, Whip to the Aus-
tralian Government, is now Minister for Defence.
Sydney Smith, of Pumpkin fame, is a Minister
expectant, and, of course, the Opposition Whip in
the N.S.W. Assembly looks for a billet when Joe
has succeeded in shunting John.
The sayings and doings of John Alexander
Dowie are regarded with special interest in
Adelaide, where he once lived, and where his
brother Andrew is still a flourishing trader.
Whenever prophet Dowie says something more
remarkable than usual —as when he stated re-
cently that his mother’s husband was not his
father—there is a rush of interviewers and re-
porters to bootmaker Dowie to see what he thinks
of it—which, as a rule, is not much.
Our old friend, the Sultan of Jackhore,
must have been kicking over the traces lately;
Straits Settlements papers by last mail state that
a British Resident is to be stationed in Johore.
That, of course, means that in future the Resident
will govern whilst Jack will only reign. He may,
as a special favor, be allowed to show his beautiful
diamond-studded teeth, but never in a metaphori-
cal sense.
The Pali, Mall Magazine has been inter-
viewing “General” Booth, and the hoary hum-
bug seems to have had an attack of candor,
judging from this confession :
Criminal instincts? Why, we have all got them. I
have got them. My father was a Grab, a Get. He had
been bred in poverty. He determined to grow rich ; and
he did. He grew very rich, because he lived without
God, and simply worked for money ; and when he lost it
all, his heart broke with it, and he died miserably. I
have inherited the Grab from him. I want to get. (His
arm shot forward, and the hand clawed at the air.) I
am always wanting to get. And the fact is that every-
body inherits what you call “ criminal instincts ” of one
sort or another. But Science cannot save their souls.
Salvation is my science.
A bust to F. B. Suttor, President of
N.S.W. Upper House, is to be provided. Presi-
dents of the Council are invariably supposed to
deserve this mark of favor. When Simonetti’s
bust of John Lackey was set up in the Chamber
the pathetic politician feared it denoted something
serious. “I was present,” he said, “when the
bust to President Hay was unveiled, and he died
soon after.” Lackey also did not live long after
his bust arrived.
People are saying in a certain Australian
State that the spectacle of a very fat politician
snatching free lunches in hotels isn’t dignified.
A private letter from London states that
Frank Mahony is getting a good foothold.
When the last mail left he was engaged in
painting some of Boss Croker’s racehorses.
It is alleged in Tasmania that President
Adye Douglas will not continue in politics when
his first term expires, as he finds that pressure of
Parliamentary duties seriously interferes with his
private business. Adye’s premature retirement
at the early age of 88 will come as a shock to
many good Yandemouians. It is suggested that
the next President may be Dr. Gamaliel Henry
Butler, who is a person of social consequence and
has never been accused of democratic opinions.
But as Butler is a young fellow—still this side of
60—and consequently too frivolous, Dodery him-
self will probably succeed Douglas.
The recently-knighted explorer, Gregory,
though he has no reputation for political capacity,
has yet said some of the truest and strongest
things in Queensland’s Leg. Council. His
criticisms of the borrowing and spending qualities
of the Philp Government were fierce and some-
times better than fierce. After tearing
Philp’s amazing balance-sheet to tatters on one
occasion, he reduced his squeaky voice to a
whisper and thus moralised
Had it been a private individual who thus mismanaged
things, I am doubtful whether he would have escaped
the law.
He has repeatedly asserted that one-fourth of the
debt of Queensland has been caused by mis-
management, and the way he pronounces “ mis-
management” it sounds very like “swindle.”
Philp affected to ignore him, but not always
successfully.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 2S, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
“ Marat ” writes :
It is to be hoped that Hay, the defeated candidate at
Glen Innes, will not stand again. Hay’s estate, and
Camden Park, the home of the Macarthur Onslow, who is
coming out in the interests of Deform, are the two places
in N.S.W. where the relations between landlord and
tenant exist in real Hinglish style. On both estates the
hats of the tenants and employees are worn thin in front
from constantly lifting them to “ the gentleman” as he
rides by. At Camden Park the children of the tenants
and employees, attending the school on the estate,
turn out and sing “God save the king” when the
Macarthur Onslow’s carriage dashes by, evidently
laboring under the belief that the Onslows are King
Ned’s representatives. Children of employees are taught
from infancy- to rush and open gates and stand bare-
headed (girls to curtsey) while the Defonner tears
through. It is all so beautifully Hinglish. The wages
are Hinglish too, mo3t of the employees being hired
on their arrival from ’Ome, before they can be
contaminated by agitators or unions. Their sons
are taken into the Onslow service as grooms, gardeners,
or milkmen, while the girls marry milkmen or gardeners
on the estate. Many families have lived on the estate
30 or 40 years, always hat-lifting and servile. Any boy
who gets annoyed at the destruction of good headgear
by pulling at the brim, and evinces a desire to get to
some place where he can stand upright, is considered a
rebel and likely to come to a bad end, and his parents, in
many cases, are ashamed of the way he is disgracing
them. All the tenants vote the same way as the
Macarthur Onslow ; his intelligence is able to pick the
right path. Now, since he has taken up the cause of
Deform, all the poor old teat-pullers on the estate are
Deformers, and wish to the Lord they knew what it
meant, so that they- could argue with John Kidd’s
supporters when they- go into Camden.
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.^
The Bulletin’s Christmas number will
be issued on 10th December. The Bulletin s
Christmas number has been good in the past.
This year it will be better.
A very broken-down individual, driving a
“ bottle-ho ” cart in N.S.W., placards that he is
cousin of a rich senator and nearly related to
another very rich personage. Probably the adver-
tisement is- intended as an argument that those
rich people should cherish him, and not allow him
to go bottle-ohing. But that doesn’t follow at
all. He may have proved that the raucous pur-
suit of the empty bottle is his proper sphere.
Often there are two sides to a grievance of that
sort.


Women Dread
The disfiguration caused by skin disease more
than the tormenting irritation which is so com-
monly associated with it.
The Bulletin
The use of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills gener-
ally results in a complete
cure of eczema, pimples,
eruptions, and other
forms of disease that
have their cause in an
impure condition of the
blood. Dr. Mode's
Indian Root Pills purge
the blood of all humors
and poisons, thereby
curing humiliating dis-
figurements of the skin,
which bad blood breeds
and feeds. This remedy
contains no poisonous
minerals, but is a purely
vegetable preparation.
They cleanse the stom-
ach, put the liver and
kidneys in proper work-
ing order, at the same
time driving out all
impurities from the
blood. They are a
positive and permanent
cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipa-
tion, sick headaches,
sallow complexion, liver
and kidney troubles, Piles, pimples, boils and
blotches, and for female ailments. Packed in
amber bottles, and sold throughout Australasia.*
Purves, K. 0., judging from the fervid
address he hurled at the Old Colonists’ Associa-
tion, in Melbourne, last week, is a sorely dis-
appointed patriot. Great Britain has done
nothing for Purves in his extreme middle-age,
notwithstanding his vociferous occasional jingo-
ism. When Mafeking was “relieved” didn’t
Purves arm himself with a toy Flag and spend a
whole Saturday afternoon and evening in urging
his fellow citizens to sing choruses ? And how did
Great Britain reward him ? Purves, addressing
the 0.C.A., put this solemn question in a more
direct way—“ Has Great Britain ever taken one
leading Australian —one man who has shown the
capacity of being a leader of men—and appointed
him to a prominent position in the service of the
Empire? Not one.” The attention of Joe
Chamberlain is herewith called to Purves.
Of the blessed “ Victorian Four,” as the
Argus cheekily calls its nominees for the Senate,
Derham is only known by his persistent opposi-
tion to the Factories Act ; Smith has been a Rich
Landlord for a few months; Templeton is only
remembered as the well-paid liquidator of the
Premier Permanent Society; and poor old Jock
M‘lntyre will probably score the best of the
batch —just because he is “old Jock MTntyre.”
Their platform appearances are so far the only
lively episodes in the Victorian elections. Ex-
cepting Jock aforesaid, they seem to know
nothing. Derham and Smith had quite an argu-
ment on the platform, right in the middle of their
Maryborough meeting, as to whether Britain’s
trade was falling off, to the immense amusement
of the audience ; while the wandering Templeton,
who atFitzroy announced his intention of “sitting
behind Deakin ” (he seemed to think that orator
was in the Senate), next day at Bendigo avowed
himself a straight-out Freetrader.
CAN BE PREVENTED.
Bilious attacks may be prevented by taking
three of CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and
LIVER TABLETS as soon as the first indication
of the attack appears. Chamberlain’s Stomach
and Liver Tablets are “Just What You Need.’
Sold everywhere. Is. 6d.*
RE
8 SELECT STOCK ALE
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
BREWERY and OFFICES DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
After barracking a force of sixty police at
Wren’s “captured” Collingwood tote for over three
weeks, the humorous Irvine Government suddenly re-
duced the number to two solitary bobbies, who are pro-
bably to remain in possession till doomsday, or till Wren
appears. The only thing the authorities seem to have
got out of the farce is a bill of expenses, which should
make the economical Deform Government weep with
bitter curses for a year hence. Meanwhile, Wren is still
doing as nicely as of yore a few doors away, quite un-
disturbed.
• * * •
It is the boast of the Y.R.C. that its various
appointments are perfect and complete. This was fairly
tested on Cup day of 1894. Just as the saddling bell for
the Cup began to clang, an unusual commotion was
noticed in one corner of the-grand stand, and a well-
dressed lady, evidently in great distress, was assisted into
one of the waiting rooms. Shortly after, the flag
denoting that a doctor was required was run up, and a
little later, word went forth that a baby girl had just
arrived. The mother and child received every care and
attention, and after the day’s racing was over were sent
home in the ambulance Waggon* everything necessary
having been performed in a way that suggested such an
occurrence was not at all unusual at Flemington. This
was in Patron’s year, and the new arrival was called
Patrona after the Cup winner. A racing club that can
capably put through interesting family events at the
shortest notice has a right to regard itself as complete.
* * * *
Melbourne’s morning journals are more than
ever under the sporting editorship of brothers Albert and
Sep. Miller. Both papers attach enormous importance to
the doings of the Miller stable, as though it contained
the best of Australian flat-racers, instead of what it
does. Two or three times a week a paragraph announces
that “ Mr. Albert Miller intends to start Tommyrot in the
Tinpot Plate at Spielers' Park to-day, and Mr. Septimus
Miller will probably be represented by Macduffer in the
Shylot Handicap ” —or somethii gof that sort. One gets
tired of being chased through lite by uninteresting state-
ments of what commonplace gee-gees are going to do, or
what they tried to do and didn’t. Once or twice a year
the public would be glad to have a few remarks from the
Miller stable re its chances of winning an important
jumping race a week later, but on those rare occasions
the public gets no information thrown at it.
» * * *
Consider what a game trotting in M.L. is com-
pared with same sport in this continent. At its recent
two days meeting N.Z. Metropolitan Trotting Club gave
away £1925 in prize money— £lO4O of it went on second
day. Prizes were £250, £225, 3at £125, 2at £l2O and 6at
£lOO each and the smallest amount offered was £75.
* * * *
“Marat”: I think a lot of Australia’s “weird
expectancy" comes from loafing round hotel corners,
waiting for the sporting telegrams to be posted.
* * * *
“F.C.”: “San Remo” (B. 10/11/’O3) can dis-
miss the idea that the bookie who returned him and
his mates only half their respective wagers when they
backed a dead-heaicr was robbing them. The principle
of returning the half stake for a dead heat (plus half the
odds, of course) can be more easily grasped by an
instance. Horses A, B and C, all presumed to have an
equal chance, start in a race. Theoretically correct odds
are 2to 1 against each. (Of course, Ike.v won’t give that,
but the tote will—less the customary 10 per cent.) Say
a purely mechanical Ikey, with no desire for personal
gain, makes his bock properly for £lOO. He lays up to
£5O each against A. B and O. If either wins he will have
£l5O in his bag with wli eh to pay 2 to 1 against the
winner plus the backer’s stake, total £l5O. If A and B
dead-heat ,Ikey couldn’t pay half the odds against both
(£100) plus the whole stakes' of two sets of backers (£100)
out of £l5O ; he wouldn’t have enough in his bag to do it.
Same principle holds good at all odds.
• * * *
Premier Seddon, of M.L., has suddenly decided
against the tote, which he used to vote for with riotous
enthusiasm, and the anli-gamblers are dancing a horn-
pipe on the remains of his old convictions. He has pro-
mised to see about introducing a Tote. Abolition Bill next
session, although a similar measure was dumped out
t’other day without debate. But he will probably have
changed liis inind by next session.
• * • •
Horse-pilot L. H. Hewitt, who rides Sloan
style, was in a winning vein at M.L. Cup meeting, steer-
ing nine firsts ami four seconds. Although G. G. Stead
wasn’t represented in the Cup, Derby or Canterbury
Cup, and his rep. failed in the Oaks, he came out at the
head of winning owners with £2205. Total amount put
through the tote during four days was £77,120 —a record.
The Metropolitan Trotting Club machined £29,879 for
three days, same week —a grand total of £106,981. As
10 per cent, goes to the clubs (U per cent, to the Govt.),
it is easily seen to what extent the tote contributes to
the good stakes provided for liorseowners.
The cable last week gave us the thrilling
intelligence that an Australian gee-gee (Australian
Colors) had won a £lOO plate in England.
• * * *
M. first lady bookmaker has openly and
successfully donned the bag on the course. The lady
cuts an attractive figure, and can call the odds much
more clearly than the male bookie, her mouth not being
confused by a cigar.
♦ * * *
The magnificent odds laid by Mo. Sydney
“double” shops were laying 30 to 1 the double, Flying
and Canterbury Handicaps, run on Nov. 28th ; 13 in the
Flying and 9 in the big handicap.
• * * *
Everything considered* latest Melbourne Cup
meeting profit isn’t a circumstance to Y.A.T.C.'s last
haul—£ll,ooo.
* * * *
Apropos pat. published herein (26/11/03)*
regarding American champion mare Lou Dillon’s recent
remarkable world’s record trot. The sulky she drew
weighed only 241 b. loz., and harness 51b.
* * * *
Probable retirement of M.L. crack, Cruciform,
through the injury that prevented her from lining up for
M.L. Cup, is announced. Only once in 29 races has she
been unplaced, and then in C. J.C. Pioneer Handicap, her
second essay as a two-year-old. Cruciform’s record
Includes 18 wins, 9 seconds, and 1 third. Stakes total
close on £6867.
* * • *
Winner (Pioceedor) of principal event at Caul-
field recently was once between the buggy shafts of Mr.
Jas. Wilson (senr.), and subsequently sold in Geelong
sale yards for £l2. Afternoon of his win Proceedor’s
owner could have sold him for £5OO.
« * * *
Old time fore-front jockey Jim Dobson—a half-
century dweller in Geelong—died suddenly day or two
ago of heart disease. Dobson was a well-thought-of
cabman for years.
* » » *
Death at Gobolion stud (N.S.W.) of brood
mare Deborah (by Arbitrator from Miriam II.) is reported.
She was 16 years old, and won three races in England
before being imported by Mr. “ Sam” Hordern. Best of
her progeny was Randwick by Hindoo.
* * * •
Somewhat unexpected winner (Nimbus) of Sand-
hurst Cup last week is a 4yr. old by Mostyn from Glare
and was bred by Mr. J. McDonald at Mungie Bundle
(N.S.W.). Last season he lined up 20 times and won
thrice—Nudgee Handicap (at Brisbane, Tatts. meet),
Ipswich J.C. Bundamba Welter and Sandow Park Welter
Handicap. Time for race (2.12 J) was slowest since
Killara (2.14) scored in 1896. Nimbus herein referred to
must not be confused with Seneschal-Gloriosa 3yr. old
gelding of same name, also racing in Victoria just now.
* * • •
Crack Sydney jocks, J. Barden and F. Hicky,
scooped everything at recent Mudgee two days meeting,
winning nine races between them.
• * * •
The Ikeys who attend Sydney pony meets have
been through a Sheolic time lately, and, while many are
standing off the game, others have had to ask for
“ time.” Said that two punters won £3OOO at one
meeting recency, but couldn’t collect half of it on
settling day, so completely cornered were most of the
books.
* * • *
Recalled that the first team of English
cricketers to visit Australia (1861) came out under con-
tract. Christopher Pond, of Spiers and Pond, of the
Caf6 de Paris, Melbourne, did the business. Seeing
money in it, he went to England, contracted with Steven-
son, of Surrey, to bring out a team, provided the neces-
sary capital, paid exes., and pocketed the profits, which
were just fair.
* * * •
In a cricket match played in Australia
recently the players decided to lend a little additional
interest to the result by arranging a sweep, the whole of
the money to go to the man drawing the highest
individual scorer. Towards the finish things grew
exciting. When the last batsman of No. 1 side went in,
his side wanted 10 runs to win. The crack howler at the
same moment discovered tnat he’d drawn the batsman in
front of him, and 12 runs would bring the sweep his way.
The sweep came his way, but he had to fight most ot his
colleagues afterwards, and sweeps are now off.
• • • •
There are now four Hills in the South Aus-
tralian electorate team for which Clem, of that family,
plays. One of the odd three was good enough to knock
up 79 against Giffen, Bailey, and other fair bowlers the
other Saturday. Hill, sen., doesn’t play now, but he is
an enthusiastic barracker still.
* * * •
“0.C.0.”: Rhodes, the English champion
trundler, and perhaps the best field in Warner’s team, is
a bowler who takes the eye at once. He takes a short,
springy run of about five paces, whips up his left arm like
lightning, with the hand behind his head, gives the wrist
a curious double twist, brings the arm forward, and
finishes with a strange backward jerk. His antics are
indeed puzzling to any batsman who has never met him
before. In the match against Victoria I saw Rhodes send
down his first over on the M.C.C. ground. Harry Trott,
who is as knowing as they make ’em, had the luck to get
that first over —or part of it. Rhodes sent the veteran
four balls, all with the same run, but each different.
There was a little change in the length ; a little change
in the flight; a little more or less pace, and a little less
or more “break” on striking. The second ball broke
across from leg, whereas the other three balls came in
from the off. Trott didn’t know much about aiiy of ’em,
so at the fourth he lunged forward viciously. It nipped
away from the advancing bat as if it had been a seeing
thing, and skimmed over the bails, where Strudwick took
it. Rhodes ended that innings with five wickets for 26
rung.
* * • *
Before last week’s narrow win S.A. had not won
a cricket match against Yic. since 1897 ! The run of 10
in succession to the Melbourne men is about the most
remarkable thing in inter-State cricket records. Before
it began, S.A. had won 8 of the last 13 fixtures, and even
while it was going on Giffen and Co. took down N.S.W.
four times—once (in 1899) by an innings. Yic. has now
23 matches to credit since the first meeting in 1874, as
against S.A.’s 14. The score was level—l 3 all—when the
“ run of ten ” began.
* * •
Coming cricket match between N.S.W. and
S.A. is the 26th since they first met in 1890 (only one
game a year was played in the first three seasons).
Present score : S.A. 8, N.S.W. 17 (including the last five
played). Curious point is that they have never had an
exciting finish—nothing closer than three wickets or 51
runs.
* * * »
N. team to meet S.A. at Sydney Cricket
Ground, Friday this week, has been chosen, and is same
side as went under to the Englishmen a week or so since,
excepting that crack Redfern bowler Johnson has been
substituted for Fisher. Johnson’s methods are like
Bosanquet’s, slow and with action disguised so that bats-
men cannot tell by the delivery what class of ball they’ll
have to beat. There’s also lots of judgment, in Johnson’s
work and some variety in the pace. Up to date this
season his record is 28 wickets for 284, and many of them
front-rank players too.
* * * *
Despite that the opposition were without the
aid of Hirst, Tyldesley, and Hayward, who remained in
Sydney, Queensland’s showing against the Britishers in
match concluded Monday was excellent, and much ahead
of what South Australia, Victoria or New South Wales
did. With a lead of 27 on initial innings the Bananaland
eleven were unlucky not to score more than 91 in second
essay, otherwise ’twas quite possible victory would have
come their way. Defeat by six wickets, when most
cricket followers and the Englishmen themselves fully
anticipated a much softer time, will give the game a
big boost in Northern section of the continent. Warner
said Q. cricket proved a deal higher class than he
•xpected—fielding especially was splendid. Manager
Murdoch Said nothing better had been met with so far.
Originally it was proposed that a combined N.S.W, and
Q. side should oppose the visitors, as was the case in
Dec., 189?, when Stoddart’s team met 18 and notched 036
in its first innings while the response was 816 for 8
wickets—9s2 for 18 out. This scribe’s view is that Q. did
much better by going on its own.
Weather and wiokets were perfection fo»
Sydney first-grade cricket, Saturday, and scoring
generally was good bar Redfern-Sydney match on
Sydney Cricket Ground, when latter lost 8 wickets for
62 in second effort, and Redfern Won by 14 runs on first
innings. Johnson (selected to practise for S.A. match)
took 11 Sydney wickets for 62 —a remarkable feat con*
sidering excellence Of the pitch. Johnson uses a slow
break mostly from the leg. Central Cumberland and
North Sydney match saw Pye and Farquhar accumulate
close on 250 for former. Farquhar’s innings produced
143, and Pye finished (not out) with 112. Five of the side
piled up 315. Trumper gathered 114 and Kelly 104 for
Paddington^ opposed to Burwood.
A. C. Maclaren’s criticism of Warner’s team
has reached Australia. Mac. is really kind to the
departing cricketers, and gives them some fatherly
advice. One of his tips is that Hirst, with his peculiar
style of batting, will be a failure in Australia as a bats-
man. tip to date, the nuggety Yorkshireman has been a
howling success in that capacity, and local judges predict
for him a high place in the batting list.
* * * *
Though S.A.-Vic. match held interest to the
last ball, attendances each day were meagre. Final day’s
gathering was described as “ only very limited.” Features
of the play were Clem. Hill’s 147 and Travers’ excellently
compiled 40 (not out) and 31 (in face of the fact that he is
not ordinarily considered a batsman), Laver’s 79 (n. 0.),
and Trott’s palpable evidence of return to whilom form
by accumulating 47 and 49 at the wickets and bagging
two wickets for 37 and 5 for 39. Wheat State’s success,
17 runs to the good, was well won, and is first in match
with Victoria for six years.
• • • •
Last year’s silly mode of choosing the Australian
XI. by post isn’t to be followed this year. The various
State reps, on the selection committee will travel from
State to State, and the rep. team will be chosen on their
“ form.” It is a commendable diversion, and should aid
considerably the choosing of a representative team on
its merits.
• • * *
The dispute between the Cricket Association
and the Sydney Cricket Ground Trustees has ended in
favor of the Association as far as the question of securing
dates for cricket matches is concerned. The Trustees
have agreed not to engage the ground during the cricket
season without first consulting the Association, on
condition that they (the Trustees) are allotted four dates
for other sports. Though in the nature of a compromise,
this is really a victory for the Cricket Association, which
claimed the right to say when cricket was or was not to be
played on the ground. The main dispute as to charging
the Association for the use of the ground still remains
unsettled, which, as the Association has to pay up,
means a win for the Trustees.
» * * *
It seems possible, after all, that some good
will come out of the long struggle between the
“council” and “executive” of the N.S.W. League of
Wheelmen as to which shall rule the roost. The “ council “
has virtually won, since the controlling bodies of the
other States have signified in its favor, and the way
it grains the helm points to the management of cycling
in N.S.W. being a good deal better than hitherto. The
“ council ” of the League is on the right track when it
proposes that a uniform code of rules shall govern cycling
all over Australia, and disqualifications by any State
League be recognised by all. Cycling in Australia promises
to take huge dimensions this year, and concerted action
by State Leagues is needed.
* » * •
After club-swinger T. B. Bax had wrecked the
world’s record, as was thought, with 41hrs. 7miu., at
Napier (M.L.), the news arrived that Burrows, the pre-
vious holder of the dreary honor, had put up 41hrs.
llmin. whirling two lumps of wood, under the manage-
ment of a circus co., at Johannesburg, a month p.eviously.
This leaves Barrows 4min. ahead, and comparison of the
two performances in regard to the number of revolu-
tions performed per minute makes out his the better.
Bax could have gone on a good deal longer, but his clubs
clashed, and one fell. His original intention was to
swing for 50 hours, but as time wore on he altered his
mind. Bax is aged 46, stands oft. 3£in., is 42in. round
the chest, and weighs lOst. 81b. He was attacked by
sleepiness once, but doses of strong black coffee warded
the enemy off.
• * * •
“L.W.” : The motorist is beginning to get him-
self disliked through his habit of cutting round corners
at anything under 25 miles an hour. Still the average
motor makes as much noise as a 15,000 ton steamer driving
through a gale and even a deaf person gets some warning.
The really dangerous object is the motor bike. The first
motor bike I ever saw was travelling down Oxford-street,
Sydney, and perched on it was a man who yelled wildly
for the street to clear itself, as he couldn’t stop. He’d
forgotten which part of the machine to turn to shut off
power, and the more he turned things, the faster he
went. The street cleared itself in a marvellous manner—
even the trams stopped, although they couldn’t shift off
the rails, and the excited gentleman sped down the street
till opposite Mark Tart’s. Then there were three loud
explosions, and the machine glided into College-street
and capsized over an old woman, the only person in the
street, after traversing Suicide Alley in safety.
• • • *
They prolong the football season up New Eng-
land way. Wednesday, 18th Nov., saw the final for the
Sawers Shield, played between an Armidale and a Tam-
worth team. Armidale won by 18 to nil.
* * • •
Mile swimming supremacy of N.S.W. at
Pyrmont S.C. gala, Saturday, proved soft for Dick Oavill
who played with the opposition and then won by perhaps
160 yards in good time of 25.83 2-5 ; second man, Craig
(27.50) and third, Jackson (28.20) finished inside standard
(28.30). Cavill’s form engendered impression that he’ll
swim as well as, if not better than, ever present season,
hence ’tis within probability that fresh records may be
created.
* * * *
“ Nat.”: Watched a swimming competition at
Bronte Baths, Waverley, t’other day, and enjoyed it
immensely—not the swimming so much as the trouble
officials were in through seas constantly breaking over
the basin. In final heat scratch man was on top of limit
lot owing to eagerness of watch holder to clamber above
high water mark ; then huge waves broke over the course
and tossed several competitors up against the rocks in
one corner where they struggled like drowning flies in a
turmoil-of cream whilst ultimate winner was taken by the
backwash from the wall and carefully landed across the
plank at the.end of the course. A further deluge carried
the timekeeper off his feet and he drifted away in the
seething waters cursing vigorously between gulps and
vainly endeavoring to save some portion of his best suit.
* . * . * . •
“True Bill”: Some time ago bruiser Dummy
Mace, recently touring N.Q., lent a pal 10s. and told him
when he had it to pay back to get a couple of tickets in
Tatt.’s sweep. Instructions were carried out and a third
party invited to join in, with the result that each became
entitled to £287.
* * *
Alf. James, the much-boomed heavy-weight
miner pug., of Zeehan (Tas.), tackled negro Felix in Mel-
bourne last week, and showed miserably compared with ex-
pectations. The black dude was the first good man James
shaped up to, and he wasn’t in it from go till stop of a
most uninteresting scrap. James’ attempts at attack
were poor while his movements generally and exaggerated
“Jeffries” crouch made him look anything but a cham-
pion, and inches shorter than his natural height. He
was floored twice in initial round, and sat down lor the
minute’s spell badly used up, though the punishment
hadn’t been severe nor the vim extra strong. James
rushed a bit through the second round, but was old-
womanish in his work always, and went to the floor, limp
"s a dead eel, from a light push. Third round was the
black's always, and he shone as he always does when his
opponent Is incapable or adopts long-range tactics,
James apparently hadn't trained an hour, and was com-
pletely broken up with sagging underpins and stomach
working like a huge bellow* in last dtniti* Infliction
ended by badly-beaten man's seconds caving in,
* • * *
Week or two ago M.L.’s premier amateur
heavyweight Fitzsimmons-nephew of famous Bob-
fought his first professional fight with Joe Dixon ana
fared badly. Battle took place in sale ring of cattle yard at
Palmerston North and lasted four rounds—two of whicn
Went Fitzsimmons’ way mostly, but latter half was all
Dixon’s—and he won easily. Subsequently at same place
ex-Australian middleweight champion “ Snowy”! Sturgeon
and Dixon met for supremacy of M.L. Match (limited to
six rounds), was Sturgeon’s from the jump. Dixon
looked as if he thought an express train had struck and
kept bumping him till the finish.
The Austral Wheel Race is again to be run,
ftnd from the fine list of entries some splendid racing
should result. The racing man naturally very carefully
selects his mount, but it sometimes happens tnat hi*
selection of tyres troubles him a little. The experienced
man knows, but to the budding Robl, Taylor, MTarland,
or Martin, a reminder that the fastest and most reliable
racing tyres are Wallace-Continental (Little Red Tj res)
Is perhaps necessary.*
It is seriously proposed by certain importers
organs that N.S.W. members should block all
Commonwealth legislation in the next Parliament
till they get the Federal capital fixed up, and that
they should devote themselves to a deafening and
continuous howl to the effect that N.S.W. has
been “betrayed” because it didn’t get its per-
sonal grab attended to in the very first year of
Federation. Labor member Hughes, of whom
better things were expected, is apparently in this
conspiracy, and so are others of whom better
things were expected. So the situation has now
got to about this point:
N.S.W. members, by stonewalling the tariff for nearly
a year, prevented anything being done about the 1 ederal
capital till near the end of the first Parliament. It was
impossible to get to the capital question till Pumpkin
Smith had left off raving.
N.S.W. members, by their stonewall against the selec-
tion of the Bombala site, again hung the question up
when it was on the verge of settlement so far as the
Australian Parliament could settle it. N.S.W. makes
another stonewall against the granting of an adequate
area for the capital. Its State Government, its Freelrade
press, and its Freetrade politicians lay it down that no
other State shall be allowed to grant land for a Federal
capital site, and that N.S.W. will only grant what area
it pleases, and a very small area at that.
They also claim that N.S.W. shall have the sole right
to interpret the Australian Constitution in this matter.
The Constitution says that the capital area is to be 100
miles or any greater distance from Sydney, and is to con-
sist of 100 square miles or any greater area. The Free-
trade papers and politicians of N.S.W. insist on altering
this to read that it shall be only 100 miles from Sydney
and shall consist of only 100 square miles.
And anybody who doesn’t see things in this light is in
a conspiracy against N.S.W.
ROUND THE FENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tramping round, tramping round, to the dull incessant
sound
Of the blurred and mingled voices and the music of a
band,
Round about the racecourse fence, where the dust is
rising dense,
Go the holidaying crowd—the motley mixture of our land
Drifting by, drifting by, haggard face and bleary eye,
The human wreck and ruin rubbing shoulders with the
best;
While the runners do their racing, and the cycle men
their pacing,
Move the idly-staring humans like the demons of unrest.
Tramping round, tramping round, o’er the worn and
beaten ground,
The gay and gaudy woman and the kindly smiling dame ;
All the toilers and the swells, all the cream of social hells,
All the sordid sin and sorrow and the wreckage and the
shame.
Drifting by, drifting by, ruby lip and laughing eye,
The “ dolly ” of the dandy and the larry’s “bit of skirt”;
City mayors and their loves, country squires and their
doves,
The maid sedate and sober beside the flippant flirt.
Men of brains and men of fat, shabby slouch and silken
hat;
The awkward-stepping yokel and the prancing little cad ;
The tired little girlie, with the glossy hair and curly,
Dragging wearily and heavily upon the hand of Dad.
Shuffling on, shuffling on, Sunda Singh and China John ;
The darkies from the mailboat and the Germans from the
plain ;
All the classes and the creeds, all the colors and the
breeds
Drifting in an endless circle round the ring and round
again.
Tramping round, tramping round, to the dull, incessant
sound
Of the blurred and mingled voices and the music of the
band ;
All the joy and all the sadness, all the sorrows and the
badness
On the dragging round of pleasure, through the ways of
dust and sand
VIC.
GLZNARA.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
i Sr
a
*3?
/M'Vn
( Free! Free II Free! 11 Our Free Gift*
To every purchaser of goods to the value of TWENTY
SHILLINGS we present one of these most useful and
highly ornamental
SILVER-PLATED MEMO. TABLETS
complete with SILVER-PLATED PENCIL. As there are only a
limited number of these, we would respectfully suggest to
our patronsto make their CHRISTMAS PURCHASES early, as
we are most anxious to give them the very best attention.
A full stock of NOVELTIES, Dainty, Artistic and Useful, at Lowest Prices
in the city. Do not fail to send for our illustrated Catalogue.
All Goods Post Free throughout the Commonwealth.
PURCHASE EARLY, AND ASK FOR OUR MEMO. TABLET.
The Goldsmiths and Silversmiths Alliance, Limited,
(Next door to the Fresh Food\
and Ice Co.’s Tea Rooms. )
90 KING ST*, SYDNEY,
H
Continental
Caoutchouc and
Cuttapercha Co.,
—HANOVER
H
MAKERS OP
Continental Motor Tyres (Winners of Gordon Bennett Gup, 1003)
“Wallace” Continental Bicycle Tyres
“Wallace” Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
Total Yearly Output—NEARLY ONE MILLION TYRES,
DEPOT AT i—ll
Wallace Pneumatic Tyre Co.,
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES. QTd. F |j nderS St., MelbOUme.
Makers of All Kinds of Rubber Goods, such'
STEAn HOSE
DRILL HOSE
BREWERS’ HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
SOLID SHEET
VALVES
PACKINGS
GLOVES
INSERTION SHEET
BILLIARD 1 RUBBERS
FOOTBALL BLADDERS
RUBBER BELTING
RINdS and BANDS
PATENT TUBING
GAS TUBING
I.R. BALLS
General Agents for Australia
HESSELMANN & GO.
34 Queen St.,
The Bulletin
THE BICYCLE YOU SHOULD BUY.
The 1903 Model RED BIRD BICYCLE
Built for Speed and Strength. Every part of a RED BIRD can be: (duplicated. The Bearings and Chain-
Wheels are absolutely accurate, thus the RED BIRD runs very eas% and lasts for years. Cash or terms.
Second-Hand Bicycles
taken in Part Payment.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St, Sydney
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. (Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Firs Insurances
Marin 3 R s s . •
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &e. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M. TINLiEY, Manager.
The Bulletin
A DAINTY LITTLE PRESENT.
Combination Pin Cushion, Thimble
and Reel Holder. Nickel plated with
plush Top. damps on to table by means
of sprinar. Price 2'- each, 3 for 5/6, box of
6 for 10/6. Larger Sizh, -
«it.h weijih ed pedestal—stands any-
where—price 3/6, 3 for 9/-, box of 6 for
17 All post-paid to any address in
Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand on
i e 'eipt of price. Address all orders—
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
The Bulletin
229-231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURUE.
t’l r
mxr
mi
IE
fail
uumrrEnn
IBmmll
feiiiiixnijii m
17 OR the person who is not a millionaire, there Ba ONT.Y
x ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Street Coffee Pafcaea,” ~r r\
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General To-*
Office. Proprietor—GEO. W. .EEL IS.
the bulletin story BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. CMh, 300 ;
price, 4s. 6(1. From all SooJt sellers., 'tKa
Publishers, Tiib Bulletin Newspaper O' ud .
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia. ’
SNAftPSHOOTINg
The Bulletin
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER,
f
HITS THE MARK /
180 Pams, 100 Illustrations, 1/. mrr.i
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/~ worth over Published.
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
3
The Bulletin
A Soothing
Influence—
Williams’
Shaving
Stick.
My Silent Partner—
WILLIAMS’ BARBER’S BAR.
The Bulletin
itSTEvery Bai
weighs Sixteen
Honest English
Ounces, divi-
ded into Six
Cakes. Not
sold in Slices.
J. B. Williams
Co., Glaston
bwry,Conn.,U.
S.A., 232 Clar
cnee St., Syd-
ney ; 362 a Little OollinsSt., Melbourne
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
Reynolds’s
Newspaper
Keeps the Democratic Flag
flying all over the World.
READ IT.
JOHN DICKS - - - Strand, London, W.C.
ErjCSl ME MAN’S MASTER KEY. -All subjects
re In ting to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 305 Pages, 106 Illustrations
Cs. 6it. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting-
Engine! w, 413 Bourke-street, Melbourne, Also COLE’S,
Meiba«',fna„ Adelaide, Sydney.
CHAS GILBERT’S
h(p znmco
CAS HI TAILORIN G.
I make clothes for people who pay their
bills. Don’t have to make debt-paying
customers pay for clothes the debt-dodging
chap is wearing. I imagine if I were looking
for a tailor I’d rather like the idea of paying for
what I got, than for part of the other fellow’s
suit too.
How do you feel about it ?
Hand-Finished \
Suit to Measure/
60/- to 85/-
“Economic ”
Suit to Measure.
Carriage Free.
35/ - to 50/-
I’ll please you too, or return your cash.
Pleased to send patterns, etc., anywhere to
anybody.
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
Mr. F. J. Byrne, the general manager of the
Canada Cycle and Motor Co., speaking of his recent visit
to the Canada factory:—“ I spent my time with the
mechanical staff, giving them points and suggestions in
regard to Australian requirements, which have suggested
themselves to our clients, agents, travellers and State
managers. As our company has taken a very hopeful
view of the conditions in Australia for some time past,
and are well satisfied with the business they have secured
in this territory, all the suggestions made which were
mechanically practical have been adopted. A number of
valuable improvements, especially in the construction of
light road and track racing wheels, will be offered on
receipt of shipments which are now on the water.
Another point, which w T e trust will appeal strongly to the
Australian riding public, is the fact that as soon as suit-
able premises can be secured we will commence manu-
facturing locally, extending the scope of our operations
as soon as skilled labour can be secured and trade con-
ditions warrant. All of the operations carried on here
will be on the lines suggested and approved by our
factory organisation at home. This will insure machines
being thoroughly up to date and safely beyond the ex-
perimental stages. This idea has been in mind for a con-
siderable length of time, but, like all other large under-
takings, had to be carefully considered and safeguarded
in order to secure the highest grade of workmanship.” •
Loud yell on the Federal capital question
from Sydney Telegraph :
All this talk about having a vast area, so that it may
be nationalised, is the merest moonshine. If the people
of this State want the land nationalised they can do it
themselves, through their own State Parliament. Then
the advantages and profits, if there are any, will belong
to the people of New South Wales. But if the 1000 square
miles or more are passed over to the Commonwealth to
“ nationalise,” New South Wales will get only the
proportion which comes to her as one of the six States.
As w T eiI ask a man to divide his property, or distribute
his fortune among himself and five others, so that he may
take a share, and give the rest to the five, as ask New
South Wales to part with 1000 square miles of its
territory to the Federal Parliament.
To put the Telegraph’s case shortly: N.S.W.
insists on the right to supply the land for the
Australian capital. Any attempt to take the
necessary land from another State is an outrage
on N.S.W. Any attempt to take the land from
N.S.W. is robbery. Any delay in taking the
land from N.S.W. is a base conspiracy to deprive
N.S.W. of the capital.
A SCIENTIFIC PICK-ME-UP.—“No better
tonio and restorative for the victims of social fes-
tivities exists than a morning draft of Hunyadi
Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe, and in
every respect salutary. The best and safest
natural aperient.*
A gang of nigger-loving farmers got hastily
together at Ingham (Q.), the other day, and pro-
ceeded to wail over the assertion of one of them-
selves that the enactment compelling nigger im-
portation to cease shortly would send them on a
cold, unsympathetic world to starve. They unani-
mously agreed to petition the Australian Parlia-
ment for an extension of time, so that “farmers
might live while they gave white labor a trial! ”
They will find little comfort, and will probably
suddenly go out on their joint and several ear.
They have had ample time (not to mention an in-
ducement of £2 per ton bonus) to “give white
labor a trial, ” and if they haven’t done so it seems
to be their own affair.
Dr. E. BECKETT, Albany, Clinton Co., Ky.,
W Mr9. N. E. McNICKEL had severe attacks of ASTHMA
—seemed as though she would suffocate —had to he
propped up in bed in order to get her breath. Nothing
seemed to relieve her until I prescribed Jayne’s Expector-
ant, when she began to improve, and now appears to be
well.”*
S.M. Herald reaches the nadir of narrow
provincialism in the subjoined wail:
The Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, the Navigation
Bill, the Interstate Commission Bill, the Federal Seat of
Government Bill—that is the order in which Mr. Deakin,
at the Town Hall, placed the measures which are to be
introduced next session. Yet, by implication, it was
promised, before Parliament rose, that the Seat of
Government Bill should be in the forefront of next
session’s business. The three Bills that are now placed
before it will lead to long debates and strong fights in
committee, and New South Wales will have to speak
plainly if the only measure by which she stands to gain
anything is not left over for the expiring weeks of the
next Parliament.
* ‘The only measure by which she stands to gain
anything.” In the Hebald’s idea, three of the
most important questions of Australian policy are
as nothing compared with the question of how
N.S.W. can personally make 2d. out of the rest
of the Commonwealth.
HOSE
FOR
& PRICE.
TONLOP^
HOSL
DOTS NOT
k. BURST j
m
iMifgpS i
:»
1
»
P;
i
CANNOT BE EXCELLED FOR,
STABLE or
GARDEN USE.
The Material, Workmanship, and Price are right Ask
your storekeeper to pet you - Dunlop “ brand, Sam ply,
piece of hose oo application.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. ol AnsL ttlfc*.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide. Perth, Brisbane an<J
Christchurch. N. 2.
mniopy
HOSE
l LASTS TOR i
K YtAR ij
Should
You
have any difficulty in
obtaining our hose,
send to us direct. .. .
N.S.W House-
-150 Clarenco-et., Sydney.
'DUNLOP
HOSL
IN FOUR
kG RADti>


■i . '
im
ww
m .;
il mil |ii nil*.iiiiiin " in
: \y
; KW' v :' *O.
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
“Where e’er is smoke, there, too, is fire,’*
This much the proverb shows ;
But all Tobaccos are not of
The “sweetness of the rose.”
The best of all the smokes on earth,
That must approval win,
Is “ HAVELOCK,” sold in dark and bright,
And also plug and tin*
An old familiar Freetrade falsehood
reprinted by Sydney D.T.
The larger portion of the conhnunity can never be
“protected.” Railway men, civil servants, employees
of the municipal council, clerks, storekeepers, shop
assistants, cabmen, vanmen, blacksmiths, carpenters,
quarrymen, masons, bricklayers, builders, carriers,
sailors, laborers, shipwrights, publicans, compositors,
farmers, miners, pastoralists, retail dealers of all kinds,
all persons having a fixed salary, and all professional
men—all these will have to pay the duties, and will get
nothing in return.
As a matter of truth, every increase in wages to
one class in a community favorably affects all
other classes. As a stone thrown into a pond
ripples the whole surface and raises the whole
level of the water, so the creation of a new high-
wage industry sets more money circulating to
benefit doctor, store-keeper, builder, author,
civil servant, actor—everybody, in fact, except
the importer, who lives on the destruction of
other livings.
CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and LIVER
TABLETS cost you nothing if they do you no
good. You are the sole judge. The dealer from
whom you buy them will refund you your money
if you are not fully satisfied after using two-thirds
of a bottle. Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver
Tablets are “ Just What You Need.” Sold every-
where. Is. 6d.*
Since Syme’s Age started to furiously
belabor its beautiful tin-image Irvine, people
have been wondering who on earth David has in
view for next Vic. Premier. The Age has never
yet made the mistake of knocking a man down
before it has found another to take his place, but
this time nobody can give even the remotest guess
at the temporarily fortunate individual. Peacock
seems out of the question ; even boss Syme can
scarcely piece him together again after smashing
him up so badly 18 months ago. The only other
strong man with experience in opposition to
Irvine is Trenwith, who is probably honored by
being the person King David hates worse than
anyone else, and Trenwith goes for Federal poli-
tics, anyway. Possibly the Age will try to
arrange the return of either Isaacs or Allan
M‘Lean to State politics.
Melbourne Trades Hall Council gave “one
on the point ” to a Tory organisation which tried
to draw it. Said organisation, an offshoot of the
Employers’ Federation and the ’Pootra Reform
League, wanted the Trades Hall to. join in a
friendly mock election to show women electors
how to vote. There were 17 different reasons
why the Council should have nothing to do with
the hen ’Pootra, but, neatly avoiding a long
quarrel and possible insinuations, it merely replied
that it wasn’t a political organisation, and that
the ’Pootra had come to the wrong shop.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
A Victorian railway man writes : —
The hog-mean Victorian Government is pursuing its
vengeance against the engine-drivers who “struck” to
the utmost limits of brute ferocity. Men arriving in
S’Africa and seeking employment have been met with a
list of the names of the strikers made out and distributed
world-wide by the Irvine Government, and advising other
Governments not to employ the men. Not content with
depriving the men of employment here, they seek to
hound them off the face of the civilised world. Yet if
anyone looked up the bank-boom records of some of the
Tories who support and endorse these methods, and pub-
lished them all over the world, what a howl would be
raised in “gentlemanly ” circles !
H. H. Fyfe, in the Nineteenth Century,
on the alien question :—
Australia recognises far more clearly than we do at
Home the harm that is done to a race by the indis-
criminate admission of foreigners with lower standards
of living and decency and (to put it mildly) a different
standard of morals and honor. All the colonies, indeed,
are watching closely to see how the Mother Country will
deal with this question, so grave when we consider it in
connection with Imperial issues. If they see we handle
it without nerve, that we allow such arguments as that
of Lord Rothschild to have any weight, the effect will be
deplorable. Any federation of the British race is out of
the question if we allow our population in these islands
to be contaminated and dragged down by the presence of
an alien element which is increased by fresh arrivals at
an enormous rate, and which increases itself, as the
Stepney birth-rate shows, at a far more rapid rate than
the native inhabitants.
The Bulletin
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH. <
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
.
m
Sr* l
There’s SECURITY in
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
they TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter’s
T. & G. MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
The Bulletin
ALL PROFITS BELONG TO MEMBERS.
Eighty Thousand Policies in Forca.
The Report for year ending
30th September, 1903, shows/—*
(Industrial and Ordinary)
Mew Business «
Annual Revenue
Invested Funds
Addition to Funds for One Year
» - £1,397,938
- - £143,530
«, - £359,646
- - £40,527
The T. & G. is the ONLY MUTUAL Industrial Society in Australasia.
In the last three years it has doubled its business and its proportion ot
growth in that period is the greatest of all Insurance Societies in Australasia.
There is nothing desirable in Life Insurance which the Society does not
afford CHEAPLY, INTELLIGIBLY and SAFELY.
Head Office, Melbourne, 26/11/03. J. McK. HENRY, General Manager.
3oi Pitt Street, Sydney. F. J. HART, Resident Secretary.
THE REPRESENTATIVE BOOK OF AUSTRALIAN HUMOR—
“ Steele Rudd’s ” ON OUR
SELECTION.


The full beauty of the Shiels-Bent declara-
tions about the overmanning of Victorian Railway
Department is becoming apparent now that men
are being taken on by the dozen daily. Week
before last 80 were engaged, mostly boys and
youths, to do the work of the capable and exjjeri-
enced men who were discharged or retired, lhe
Vic. railways don’t come under the Factories Act
—which is one more reason why they should be
brought under the Federal Arbitration Act next
session.
A Broken Hill alderman has been fined
£50 and disqualified from sitting in the Council
for seven years (the minimum in both cases),
because while he was a director of the local Gas
co. that co. entered into a contract to light the
local town-hall. Somebody named John See is
Premier and also chairman of a company which
made a contract with N.S. W. Government for a lot
bigger thing than the lighting of a town-hall; but
nobody was fined anything or disqualified for
even seven minutes.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Dr. Robertson, the coal-man, talking about
the gloomy outlook for Newcastle and other
■ N.S. W. coal centres :
The outlook for next year is most unsatisfactory for
the owners, but more especially for the men. We have
to compete in foreign markets against the world, and
our competitors produce tbfeir coal at a very much lower
rate than obtains in N.S.W.
So, says Dr. Robertson, leave off attempting to
keep up wages; leave off legislating in the inte-
' rests of the men's health and of the stamina of the
next generation. And if we rely upon foreign
markets, we shall probably have to do it. The
alternative is to establish industries and make a
market of our own. The iron-trade alone would
be an enormous consumer; and there are others.
Reduced Price List -
The Bulletin
FOR THIS MONTH
ONLY.
VIOLI" 8
Complete with Case,
Bow, extra Strings, Resin,
Pitch Pipe, etc. Carriage paid
to any address in Australia, Tasmania,
or New Zealand.
ONE of the greatest . . .
obstacles to be over-
come by a Violin
Student is the difficulty of
procuring, at a reasonable
price, an instrument which
will give satisfaction. We
have endeavoured to supply
such an instrument, and can
now offer to intending stu-
dents Violins which, though
low in price, are well made,
and in tone and finish are
everything that is required by
the most exacting.
Full, Three-quarter and Half Size.
Sot A. —A copy of old master, Ebony Finger-
board and Tail-piece, in half-lined Wood
Case, with Bow, &c £1 Is.
Set B. —Copy of .Stradivarius or Amati, Ebony
Fingerboard and Tail-piece, Wood Case,
with better Bow, &c. .. ... £1 ss.
Sot C. —Copy of Stradivarius or Amati, com-
plete Ebony Fittings, in full-lined Wood
Case, with good Bow, &c. .. .. .. £1 10s.
Bet D. —Copy of Stradivarius, Amati, &c.,
superior finish, complete Ebony Fittings,
in good, full-lined Wood Case, with
Spring Clasp, superior Bow, &c. .. .. £2 2s.
Bet E.— Fine copy oi old master, superior
finish, fine Ebony Fittings, in good, full-
lined imitation Walnut Case, with
superior Bow, &c
Bet F.— Fine copy of old master, selected
wood, superior finish, in Wood Case with
Nickel Fittings, superior Bow, &c. .. £4 48.
Bet G. —Artistic copy of old master, beauti-
fully marked wood, very fine finish, in
new model violin-shaped Case, with
selected Artist’s Bow, <fcc £5 ss.
Address all Orders to
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE*
Carriage Paid by Parcels Post to any address in Australia,
Tasmania, or New Zealand, on receipt of above
prices. Remit by Commonwealth postal note or New
Zealand money order.
£3 36.
Houses and Land for Private Sale.
Grand Compact Station Property.
5271 ACRES. Good Homestead.
TITELIj watered with Creek and Tanks, with first-class
catchments. There is a stack of Hay, and the
country looks Lovely.
STOCK.
760 flock eweh and 400 flock lambs (fit to wean by middle
of' December). 465 stud ewes and 122 stud lambs.
300 stud ewes to lamb this month. 7 stud rams,
5 selected rams, 61 flock rams. 25 cull rams, 30 fat
wethers. 4 draught mares, 1 harness mare, and 2
saddle horses. 1 cow and calf, 1 buggy, 1 sulky,
harness to each. 2 wool presses, etc.
All furniture, including piano, bed ling, stores, etc.
» Price, £BlOO. Easy Terms.
Full particulars—
HUGH DUFF & CO.,
Auctioneers,
283 GEORGE ST.
O'
w
T
to
Miss Ada Crossley’s
TRIBUTE TO
THE PIANOLA.
21/10/’O3.
Menzies’ Hotel,
Melbourne.
The Manager of the Pianola Co.
Dear Sir, —Accept my warm thanks for your kindness
in placing the “ Pianola ”at my disposal. I want to tell
you how delighted I am with it ! It is altogether won-
derful ! In an accompaniment to several of my songs it
has given me splendid support, and the tone has been
most sympathetic and sustaining.
With appreciation and greeting,
Very truly yours,
ADA CROSSLEY.
There is but one PIANOLA.
Sold only by . . .
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
185-7 COLLINS ST., MELROURNE.
We will mail you a Catalogue free if you will
write us. Ask for Catalogue &■
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Offioe of Victoria.
Canz Induotlon Matar. 80UE AGENTS :
The Austral Qtis Engineering So., &tl, South (Ijelb.
r+
NEW NO. 6 RIFLE—I9O3 MODEL,
22 Calibre. Peep Sight.
ADAPTED TO THE FOLLOWING CARTRIDGES:
U.M.C. CARTRIDGES Specially Recommended.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS.
©
m
Concerning Elgin Watches_>-
: X'O
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, GOOO. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES s t
GENTS.’—4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents:
SWIFT & GRICE
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
|F YOU WANT IT
GET IT WITH A
KODAK
The Bulletin
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
OF All DEALERS OR
or
KODAKK 284 GO4,NS ST|
MELBOURNE.
§ MENTION THIS PAP£R |
RfltlZ JOSEF
the best nafural
Aperienl- wal’er.
The Bulletin
RfIHZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperienl* watef.
RflffZ JOSEF
fhe besf natural
Aperient* wafer.
%
l
£ ycs
The Bulletin
ASTH MA CURE
I GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
For Ast.hma.uc people wno sutler from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove tho
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
64
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE XiADIES.
w. G. EX.3DT?iIX)a-E & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Rtftrences throughout Great Britain and Ceteniif.
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
I produce an attack. You can
eat sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nervee
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Beliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma Hay Fever Ee-
tablished 18*3. Explanatory BOOK 320 post FREE.
Address; DR. P. HAROLD HAYKS’ ASTHMATIC INSTITUI*.
Buffalo. N. Y., U. B. A.
PORTABLE ELECTRIC torch.
A Child Can (Jse It.
Gives 6000 Brilliant Flashes bo-Tote New
Battery is required.
Inva’uable in every House for looking round Stables,
.Outhouses, Cellars, Factories, and for Doctors, Engineers,
Spoi tsmen, &c. Absolutely Fit EE from any Danger.
Instant Eleotric Light when and where you want it.
Price 25/-, carriage paid to any address in Australia,
Tasmania, or New Zealand. Size 9in. x ljin., Volts.
■Extra Batters, 2/8 (postage extra, Vic. 6d., other nlacrs
SI.). Address all orders to — STAR NOVELTY
'COMPANY, 220-231 Coli ns St., Melbourne.


The man on the Land is always in trouble, but !
his troubles end when he places his business in
the hands of Land Agent W. N. Willis, of 21
Bligh-street. No results no fees, is his business
shingle.*
Amusements.
The new her majesty’s theatre.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
4th WEEK and BRILLIANT SUCCESS of
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Famous and Ever Welcome
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in
A COUNTRY GIRL.
Box Plan at Paling’s. m" PRICES AS USUAL.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
A BRILLIANT TRIUMPH.
MISS MAUD LITA’S
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY in the Famous
Farcical Comedy,
MISS CLEOPATRA.
TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 29., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
0 RITERION THEATRE, SYDN EY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE CHARLES HOLLOWAY DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Merry, Picturesque, Sensational Play,
A BAD CHARACTER.
SAT. NEXT, DECEMBER 5, THE ASSASSIN.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Under the Sole Direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROY”
LAST TWO NIGHTS of MR. GEORGE MUSGROV.
GRAND COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
including the Eminent Basso, Mr. LEMPRIERE PRINGLE,
in the New and Original Spanish Comic Opera,
THE SER.EKTA.de.
SAT. NEXT, DEC. 5, THE FORTUNE TELLER.
Prices—6s, 3s, and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
SPLENDID SUCCESS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATK
ORGANISATION, headed by MISS EUGENE DUGGAN, i i
THE PAINTED WOMAN.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Musi
Warehouse, George Street.
MISS MARY ROBINSON’S
ANNUAL PUPILS’-CONCER'
will take place NEXT MONDAY NIGHT, DEC. 7,
at CENTENARY HALL, YORK ST., SYDNEY, at 8 p.m.
Admission—2s. and Is.
Missing Friends.
Michael and Patrick ring, sons a
Cornelius Ring, Ireland, please coi -
munieate with Norton, Smith and Co., 2
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Amusements.
THE MU TO SCO PE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
.nd OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels■
IV O L
%gr" Admission FREE.
■n IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
i Sole Proprietor and Manaeer-Miu Haiuiy
Enthusiastic Reception of MISS JENNY 0 R EY.
MISS MAUD FANINC, absolutely the Best Coon
Impersonator ever seen, in Australia.
MR. J. W. WINTON
WILTON-THE SWIFTS-DOROTHY.
RAY JONES. and
THE TWO COLLIERS, Mr. FORU,
Miss NITA LEETE, Mr. ERNEST SELErVAN,
Miss PEARL LOVELL, Mr. GEORGE BENTLEY,
Mr. LES WHARTON, and all our Great Co.
OPERA HOUSE, M E L B O UR N E.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE CIRNOCS.
3 THE DUMONDS 3
THE MICRO-BIOSCOPE.
DE WYNNE BROTHERS. ALBERTO.
THE POWERS BROTHERS.
WILL WHITBURN, FRED. RIVENHALL, ROBERT
NEEDHAM, IRVING SAYLES. _____
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Farewell Performances of Mr. BEERBOHM TREE S CO.,
including
Miss MAUD JEFFRIE8 and Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT in
Monsieur Beaucaire,
with all the original cast, magnificent scenery, superb
costumes, gorgeous appointments.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee Mr. ?land Holt.
Business Manager .. .. C. Simohsens.
LAST NIGHTS, LAST NIGHTS of
Bland Holt’« Dramatic Co.
in
The Great Millionaire.
Next Production, IN LONDON TOWN, by
George R. Sims and Arthur Shirley.
Prices—3s. 2s 6d. 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
UEEN’S HALL,
8 Y D N E Y.
BOXING NIGHT, DECEMBER 26,
MR. HERBERT FLEMMING presents
MEL. B. SPURR,
ENGLAND’S GREATEST SOCIETY ENTERTAINER,
“ Beyond any reasonable scepticism Mr. Spurr is the
most gifted and the most refined Monologue Entertainer
heard in Melbourne.”
DEAFNESS
AND
Head Noises
Cured.
A SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERY.
Unimpeachable Evidence and Genuine Proofs. NO EAR-
DRUMS. NO OPERATION. No Mechanical Contrivance
used. CONSULTATIONS FREE. Write or Call to the
MILLSOM AGENCY, SSSSSJgyTSU
Summer Sensations by the Sea.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES «» TOBOGGANING
Steyne Court, MANLY*
Open Early in December.
AND DON’T FORGET
THE FIERY DRAGON.
(REGISTERED)
A Simple Home Remedy. Cleanses the System in three weeks from
the dreadful curse of Alcoholism. No Restraint. No Loss of
Work. No Expensive Institute Treatment.
A RECENT TESTIMONIAL.
“ Dear Sir 11 November 11,1903.
“ With a grateful heart I ask you to accept a word of thank* for the benefit you have bestowed on
me I was in a fair way of being overpowered with strong drink. Again and again I resolved not to touch
it and again and again' I drank ‘ success to good old resolution !’ But one day an old and tried friend,
who was sorry to see rav condition, and who at intervals had read me temperance lectures, said to me, ‘ I
can <ret a medicine that will take the desire to drink from you altogether.’ I smiled to myself, having no
faith in such cures However, I said, ‘ You will be my best friend if you can do that.’ He said, ‘ Will you
take th° medicine ? ’ T said, ‘ I will,’ and I did. I stuck to it, and it ivas all right. My old energy and
will-vower have returned ; the horrible nightmare has departed, and ‘ Richard is hiwself again.'
DRUNKENNESS IS A DISEASE. To preach at a man is useless. To sign temperance pledges is of no
avail To tell a man he is had is an incentive to make him worse. The disease wants an antidote ; you
have that antidote in ALCOCIDE. God preserve you to use it for those- who cry in anguish, « Take the
curse away 1’ Yours, dear sir, for ever, .”
Particulars post free, under cover. Strictly confidential.
Sole Agent for Australasia and New Zealand:
A. G. LUriSDEN,
74 VICTORIA ROAD,
AUBURN, MELBOURNE.
DO yOU DRINK LIME JUICE ?
The Bulletin
PURE PME-FRUnr JUICE
The Bulletin
THEN DRINK THE BEST
Agents— Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell 4. Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
Lucky Tom Doyle, Kanowna (W.A.), has
cleaned up a further parcel of 16 tons for a return of
246t»z. Since he started work, 20 months ago. he and his
mate Finney have won 34240 z. of gold, worth £12,800,
from 200 tons of stone.
| * * *
The October returns of the principal W.A.
mines are as follows: Fine Gold —G. B. Perseverance
14,4730 z., Great Fingall Consols 11,0110 z., Oroya-Brown
Hill 86900 z., Sons of Gwalia 54240 z., L. V. Consols 42330 z.,
Golden Link 24520 z., East Murchison United 15400 z.,
Boulder Main Reef 8720 z., Golden Age 5610 z., Vivien
5120 z. Standard Gold —Kalgur li 39760 z., Hainault 9540 z.
Bullion —Golden Horseshoe 17,6080 z., Great Boulder
Prop. 14,3570 z., Associated 75410 z., Mt. Morgans 55290 z.,
Cosmopolitan 54490 z., Peak Hill 28200 z., Princess Royal
20610 z., Bellevue 15800 z., Hannan’s Star 15820 z., Westralia
and East Extended 19630 z., W.F. Main Reefs 11550 z.,
Burbank’s Birthday Gift 10610 z., Ida H. 12110 z., North
Kalgurli 13140 z., Queensland Menzies 7540 z., Menzies
Consols 8050 z., Champion Prop. 8120 z., Lady Shenton
7820 z., Lancefield 6820 z., Potosis2soz., Fraser’s South Ex-
tended 6110 z., Red Hill 4660 z., Golden Arrow 5140 z.,
Cumberland-Niagara 5080 z., Lady Robinson 3610 z.
• * • •
Princess Royal, Norseman (W.A.), seems to
have had its eyes picked out. The return for Sept, was
282_40z., while for Oct. it dropped to 20610 z. In future,
it is estimated that it will be difficult to maintain a
15dwt. average, or say 14000 z., so that the returns will
not average much above half what they have been lately.
During the current year the co. has paid eight divs.
of Is., or £32,000, practically one-third of its total dis-
tribution in seven years. On the lower-grade ore
the divs. will be few and far between. It is very unlikely
that the mine will yield another £1 a share. As the gold
chute is becoming shorter at depth and is dipping south,
away from the shaft, there will be less pay ore in the
deeper levels, and the cost of working the ore left in the
mine will be greatly enhanced. The co. should amalga-
mate with the Central, as here previously advised, and
sink a main shaft to suit both properties. Machinery is
old and out of date.
* « * •
White Feather Main Reefs, Kanowna (W.A.),
has closed down for three weeks, ostensibly to overhaul
machinery. The pay chute at the 750 ft. level is very
short, and supplies little ore. All along, the reef has been
very erratic, and it says something for manager Harper
that he has managed to keep the mine, and incidentally
the town, going for so long. It is rumored that, at the
expiry of the three weeks named, six months’ exemption
will be applied for. Some time ago a find of pay ore in
the South, or Bissenberger, blocks was announced, but
this led to nothing.
* * • »
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), owns 33
apres adjoining the Ivanhoe South Extended on the
west. The co. has been working for years with little
success, from the shareholders’ point of view. Some
months ago it took over Dwyer’s lease on the south fcr
30,000 shares. On this latter block pay ore is said to
have been cut at 150 ft., but at 250 ft. the lode is valueless
so far. The co. is in 150,000 shares, of which 18,000 are
held in reserve. That there will be a wild gamble in the
shares goes without saying, but unless they can be
hoisted to par in order to get rid of the reserve shares, a
reconstruction is inevitable.
* * * *
Charters Towers (N.Q.) mining figures for
October: Stone crushed, 23,545 tons for 26,9990 z.;
cyanide bullion, 15,2780 z. from 27,612 tons of tailings.
Total bullion for month, 42,2860 z. (The total for October,
1902, was 33,9050 z.) Divs. for month, £31,075 ; calls,
£9951; surplus, £21,124. For the ten months :
1902 1903 Increase
, Divs £319,561 £350,320 £30,759
Calls .. .. 92,996 108,357 15,361
Surplus.. .. 226,565 241,963 15,398
The Queen Cross paid just about two-thirds of the
October divs., £20,000 out of a total of £31,075. This
mine, after providing for current div., will have £26,000
to credit. A 4s. div. is expected as a Xmas box.
• •
Band of Hope (Charters Towers, Q.) shows a
further drop in both tonnage and gold yield for the
month. Bonnie Dundee is still poking about looking for
a reef. Brilliant Central, owing to law costs and
damages through late smash in shaft, suspends its usual
div. Brilliant P.C. is still pegging away and getting a
small profit. Day Dawn Gold Mines show an improved
yield. Deep Levels, the north-end prospecting show,
talks of winding-up. New Queen put up the best
crushing for years—lo2Boz. from 993 tons ; nothing is as
yet developed to warrant the expectation that this figure
will be kept up. S. E. Day Dawn, with its 168th call, ex-
hausts its capital and will have to make arrangements
failing some development of a payable kind. Queen
Cross developments make Queen Central chances look
good. Ruby and Victoria-and-Queen both show a falling
■off in ore Value, the V. and Q. reducing div. in con-
sequence. Victoria is striving to raise further capital,
and Victory is on the same lay.
The niost effective arguments in picture,
prose and verse for the Radical Cause will be
found in Tub Bulletin’s Election Special broad,
sheet published Dec. sth. Price, One Penny.
Order at once. By post, l|d. in stamps.
For cold brutality Iceberg Irvine excelled
himself in moving the second reading of the
Victorian Old Age Pensions Act Amendment
Bill. This Bill is itself the essence of cruelty.
It limits the amount to be paid to the aged poor
to £150,00P a year, in spite of the fact that, with
all their barbarous administration, Shiels and
Irvine could not bring the amount down to less
tiian £215,000 last year. This means that old age
pensioners, representing about £60,000 a year, must
die or be wiped off the pension list in some other
way, before a single fresh pension can be granted.
In a cold-blooded fashion Irvine declared that it
was ‘‘sentimental moonshine ” to call the pension
by any other name than that of a charity. When
c hallenged, Irvine said all other forms of pension
were payments for services rendered. A still,
cold man like Irvine doesn't seem to realise that
the people of Victoria granted the old age pension
to its worn-out citizens for services rendered in
the prime of their lives. If that is not the case
then there is no sense in the provision that
before a man or woman could draw the pension
he or she must have lived and worked and paid
taxes to the State for at least 25 years. Irvine,
in reply to an interjection, said the old age
pHiision>V to °d o n all fours with the hospital
grant. The statement is either a deliberate
falsehood, or Irvine is a man with a miser-
ably false reputation as a reasoner. When
a patient is taken to the Melbourne Hospital
with a broken leg, he is not asked whether he has
worked in the State for a term of 25 years or
whether he has led a respectable life. And yet
■those are conditions imposed upon o'd -e pen
sioners, and make their position totally dissimilar
from that of the hospital patient. In the course
of his speech Irvine declared that it would be
better to spend some of the money now voted for
old age pensions in fostering those prying, poke-
nose, prudish institutions called “ Ladies’ Benevo-
lent Societies’’—institutions of haughty women
who take glory to themselves for the distribution
of funds supplied to them by the general tax-
payers No doubt, too, each lady imagines she is
hoodwinking God into a belief that she is worthy
of an extra diamond in her heavenly crown.
Preferential trade would no doubt benefit
many industries throughout Australia, but none more
than the South Australian Wine Industry. In talking
the matter over with Messrs. Penfold and Co., who are
the largest distributors of high-class wines in Australia,
thev inform us that the demand for their wines has
shown extremely rapid strides throughout the United
Kingdom, and that the leading medical men have assisted
cneatlr by recognising their superior restorative quali-
f ' 7, compared with Continental productions. The
Englishman is conservative, and as a rule makes sure of
ww heis (retting, so that Penfold’s wines should have
found high k favor is an undoubted feather in the cap of
one Australian production at any rate.
Derham, one of the Vic. Tory candidates for the
Senate is going on terribly about people who
come from abroad, willing to invest money in Australia,
and, on looking round the States, have laid, “ We will
not invest a penny in your country.”
Many dozen other Tories are also going on “ some-
thing terrible” about these same imaginary people.
It is surely time some Tory produced his imaginary
capitalist, and the wonderful industry he was
going to start but didn’t. Since “Labor domina-
tion ” commenced —it has been raging in all its
horror since about 1895—over 2000 new factories
and 60,000 hands have been added to the Common-
wealth’s industries. These industries have pro-
gressed almost as much in seven years of Labor
domination as in 70 previous years of Tory
domination. Agriculture has increased almost as
rapidly. The industries that have collapsed of
late years are sheep-breeding (wrecked by
drought), land-booming, the floating of fraudulent
land banks by Tory citizens who, in many cases,
should be in gaol; the robbery of British deposi-
tors by the same class through false balance-sheets
and bank reconstructions, more robbery by the
same class by the floating of wild cat mines, and
the insane boom made by the auction of public
lands. Australia has many unemployed just now,
because, vastly as the honest industries have in-
creased under Labor domination, they haven’t yet
been able to make good all the losses by these
tremendous frauds; but still there are hopes.
When a lot of Derham’s political friends are
dead there will be a cleaner atmosphere and more
hopes.
♦ ——
The Tasman .an situation :
Now hat the Tasmanian Assembly has rejected
Premier Propsting’s Conciliation and Arbiira.ion Bill,
and the Council has thrown out practically the rest of his
programme, the island’s reforming Premier has a lot to
think about. He started with a big majority, a Govern-
ment not one member of which ever held office before,
and a sackful of good intentions. About his honesty and
good intentions there was no doubt at all. He simply
boiled over with them, and he promised too much, and
in his inexperience he missed points in the game. Above
all, he failed to recognise th'at it is no good being a
reformer in Tasmania unless one is prepared to break
things. Propsting should have"known that the awful Cbun-
cil would reject everything, and he should have decided
beforehand exactly which ear he would hit the Council
on when it did. He should have thought out in advance
his scheme for putting the fear of death into the House
of Decay. Apparently he didn’t. Now that almost
everything has gone to wreck, the country naturally
asks Propsting, “What next?” If there is no next,
then the country naturally wants to know why there wks
any previous. The case requires a man with the fire of, a
Burry, and the square jaw and broad shoulders and
steely eye of a Kingston, and the dead weight of a
Seddon with which to fall on the enemy. The best thing
Propsting can do now is to get into recess, and spend the
interval before Parliament meets again in carrying a
flaming banner through the country and intimating that
if the Council doesn’t cave in next year the Assembly
will go on strike and stop supplies. And meanwh.le
every Tas. democrat should concentrate his mind on
getting men into the Federal Parliament who will clamor
for a Federal graduated land-tax, income-tax, absentee-
tax, for the federalisation of the State debts and the
State railways, for a Federal arbitration law, and old age
pension law—in short, for turning the flank of the Upper
House and hitting it so hard in the rear that it will wish
it were dead.
♦
“Vindex” writes about Victoria’s senatoria
candidates:
The list of candidates for the four Victorian vacancies
in the Senate furnishes rather melancholy reading. The
three retiring members are Barrett (Labor), Best and
Styles (who have Labor principles), all Protectionists.
M’Culloch, the friend of David Syme, is standing, and
hopes to step into the late Sartood’b shoes; and, ay
David will probably give him a warm helping hand, he
may do so—which would be a political calamity. J. L.
Dow, editor of Syme's weekly (the Leader), is another
candidate with a good chance, as he is not only well
known, but will have both Syme’s papers behind him.
Dow is a respectable mediocrity. The Trades Hall,
pursuing its mule-like tactics, instead of trying to re-
elect Styles and Barrett, has nominated a fresh
batch of four— Barker, Lemmon, Findley and Solly
-of whom' only one, Barker, has even a dog’s
chance; while the splitting of the Labor vote will
have a very bad effect on both Styles and Barrett,
The remaining candidates are Miss Vida Goldstein,
Trenwitii, G. H. Wise, Ashworth and Butler (of Sargood,
Butler and Co.). Miss Goldstein is conducting a very
energetic campaign all over the State, but is not likely
to be successful this time, though she will poll pretty
well. Ashworth is so far—nobody takes any notice of
Butler —the solitary Freetrader, although he is noisy
and cocky enough for a dozen. Wise is a Gippsland
barrister; he polled well at the last Federal election,
having a solid A.N.A. following. Trenwith, of course,
towers above all the others ; and, if he really does stand,
ought to head the poll, in spite of press opposition—and
persona’ laziness. To sum up, the Age will probably
select M’Cullocii, Dow, Best and Styles, and will try to
repeat its coup of 1900, when it dictated the original six.
But the country is a lot wiser now, and David is not the
power he was once. Out of a poor choice, the result
should be Trenwitii, Best, Dow and Styles, with
M’Culloch and Wise close up.
BROWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Once again the humbugs stand,
Knave and clown ;
They are stumping all the land,
Up and down ;
Hear them blather, brag, and bray,
See the posters bright and gay ;
Can’t you hear the papers s-i v :
“ Vote for Brown ' ?
“ Vote for Brown ! ” He needn't toil;
“ Vote for Brown ! ”
" Vote for Smith ! ’’—you kDOW he’s loyal
To the Crown !
Vote for Jones, and Black, and Grey,
Help them all to win the day,
They will make the country pay—
• Vote for Brown !
“ Vote for Green,” because he’ll hold
Poor men down.
“Vote for Bean,” he’s tons of gold,
And renown.
“Vote for Stein,” who loves “ Freetrade,”
And wears lovely golden braid
(He imports it ready-made).
Vote for Brown 1
Vote for Moran and for Dill—
Hat and Gown.
Vote for Green and Yellow still
In each town.
Vote for Squabble, and for Squawk,
Vote for Yabber, and for Talk,
Vote for Dingo, and for Hawk,—
Vote for Brown 1
Vote for Muffins and Cold Tea-
In which flies drown !
Vote for tracts and hymnbooks free—
In every town.
If you want to prove you’re mad
Vote for fools who air a fad—
For the Bounder and the Cad, —
Vote for Brown !
O. C. CABOT.


SAVE TOUR MONEY
THOUSANDS OF POUNDS have been wasted by People who are falsely led to believe that “ Imitation ElOCtriO BeltB ” are as good as those made by the
vFreeman & Wallace certificated electricians. Quacks and Pretenders plagiarize our advertisements, and imitate the appearance of “ OUR BELT ” with
cheap American importations which they import for about two dollars apiece and which they sell fop £2O and £5O, but it is impossible for them to pro-
duce anything either in virtue or make to compare with
THE FREEMAN and WALLACE No. 7, PATENTED,
ELECTRIC “INVIGORATOR” BELT.
The successful cures effected by this wonderful appliance of ours have induced a good many imitators to try their hand. Some try to sell you the
apparatus they have imported for a few shillings as an inducement to become their patients, and to w;ear their Belt under the belief of cure.
There is absolutely no Virtue in any of these Imported Imitation Articles
and they certainly wouldn’t want to give them to you if they possessed any goodness. Every day we get many letters complaining that the writers have in
their possession what they were told was an Electric Belt “ Better Than that Of Freeman & Wallace. We warn the public that ours is the only Electric
“ Belt ” sold in Australia under bona-fide medical advice, and for One Pound Only. No Belt is worth £lO or £2O. When you are asked to pay this by any so-
called belt-vendors who have no medical knowledge, and who are quacks of the worst degree, don’t touch them. Our Belt is not sold for the sake of sale; it is
sold to do you good. The quack’s Belt is sold for gain only. Write to our Medical Staff for information concerning these ;it will pay you. If you wear an
Electric Belt without medical advice it may kill you or aggravate your complaint beyond all hope of cure.
GREAT ELECTRIC
CURES.
BY means of Electricity,
and its curative and
soothing application
through the medium of
the FREEMAN & WALLACE
‘ ‘ INVIGORATOR ” BELT,
the worst ailments are cured.
To sufferers from Nervous Dis-
orders, Weak Back, Indigestion
Constipation, Dyspepsiaj
Sciatica, Rheumatism, Liver and
Kidney Troubles, Insomnia,
Headaches, Varicocele, Loss of
Vital Power, etc., we appeal. We
guarantee you a sure recovery.
Electricity is
The Basis of Life
—it is the Electric force which
drives the human machine.
Professor Loeb, of the Univer-
sity of Chicago, recently an-
nounced that the motion of the
heart was due, not to the heat,
but to the Electricity in the
body. A part of the chemical
energy of foodstuffs is trans-
formed into Electrical energy,
which in turn gives energy to
the muscles and organs of the
body. This is exactly our
teaching. During the
Quarter of a Century
we have' been before the Aus-
tralian public we have recom-
mended Electricity for the cure
of Nerve Diseases, and some of
the greatest cures in medical
science have been made by us.
'■ - :
mBMiLz,
UA H \
itr:
fiO UR Y
I 1 IS
snrrE
as
0
a>«
r
mm
w**m**m«mka
;5»« ;* * "'V" * : * :'•'
SX-'A % ." 1 ■jr-.<>* v^-.--.' ..■ ;.v»'. >, ~•
> - V -v* -V . : •
THE FREEMAN and WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE.
A Wonderful
“Invigorator”
Belt.
w
sold by
better Belt is sold in
Australian Medical
practice than the
“ Invigorator ” Belt
The FREEMAN
and WALLACE
Medical Institute. It is highly
certificated by leading Electrical
authorities, and is absolutely
genuine. It bears Australian
patent rights, it possesses true
vulcanite insulatory processes
without which
No Belt is of Use
in medical practice. It is also
furnished with a new improved
method for regulating the
current, to increase or decrease
according to the patient’s needs.
Sold for £1 Only.
It is the sure cure for all kinds
of Nervous Disorders, giving
that necessary Nerve Strength
which is essential to perfect
health.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
There is no greater Medical Institute in Australia than the Freeman and Wallace Medical Institute. It is
presided oyer by a Staff of Qualified Medical Men who are Experts in the treatment of all grave disorders afflicting
the male sex. They have confined their great studies to the treatment of that class of disease which may originate
from specific causes, and which only a Specialist with special knowledge can diagnose and treat.
The Greatest Living Specialists in Australia
are associated with this Institute which has been before the public of Australia for over a Quarter of a Century. No
case is undertaken by them unless they are certain a cure can be effected. Incurable cases are not accepted for treat-
ment. All cases are guaranteed by a financial bond of £lOOO for the faithful performance of all medical contracts.
Thousands of men have been cured where the services of the ordinary physician have been fruitless. Any man who
is suffering from what he is told is an “ incurable ” disease should consult the Specialists. While there is Life there is
Hope. Such diseases as Varicocele, Rupture, Loss of Vital Power, Insomnia, Epilepsy, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Kidney
and Bladder Troubles, are Specialties of the Institute, and are cured rapidly, permanently and scientifically.
When under treatment every man is under the especial care of Dr. R. Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E-, L.F.P.S., E.,
L.M., who is a Medical Expert and an International Physician of great reputation and who is qualified and Diplomaed
by the Medical Boards of N.S. Wales, Victoria, South Australia, England and America. (See JV.S. Wales and Victorian Registered
Practitioners Lists.) No Electric Belt for the cure of disease is sold unless recommended by him. He is the author of a
magnificent medical work, “Clinical Experiences,” 150 medical plates, 570 pages. It is a book essentially for MEN>
and is worth a Pound a Page to country residents. It supplies the place of a medical man, where medical men are
few. It will be posted free to any applicant from the Specialists on receipt of
FIVE FEKTCE OIXTLY IKT STAMPS.
SPECIAL. NOTE.— Every day we receive complaints from disappointed people who
have bought for £lO, £2O, and £5O what they were led to believe was an Electric Belt “as
good as The FREEMAN and WALLACE ‘ INVIGORATOR ’ BELT,” only to find it a rank
and paltry imitation. If you have been taken down in this way, write us full particulars,
and we will GUARANTEE to GET YOUR MONEY BACK or its equivalent in value. This
applies to any article bought during the last two years. Be sure you state your case
plainly to us, and tell us how you came to pay so much money for such a Belt. It will be
worth your while to write to us. Beware of those alleging to sell the Freeman and
Wallace Electric Belt for 10s., sold for-One Pound Only. This is only a trick to promote
Tr ide, ami to work off an-inferior belt. Beware of such a system which condemns-itself.
The Freeman & Wallace
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Jewellery,
Watches,
Clocks,
Plated Goods.
The Bulletin
STRftNP CORNER, Geo,,"
ST,SYDNE.Y.
Solid Silver
Walking Sticks,
Purses,
Opera Glasses.
The Bulletin
EIGHT STORES.
The Bulletin
EIGHT STORES.
LONDON :
20 Hatton Garden.
MELBOURNE :
97 and 99 Swanston-street.
PERTH, W.A.:
395 and 397 Hay-street.
BRISBANE :
Queen and Ed ward-streets.
AUCKLAND :
146 and 148 Queen-street.
WELLINGTON :
1 and 3 Lambton Quay.
CHRISTCHURCH :
236 and 238 High-street.
DUNEDIN :
Princes and Dowling Sts.
TIE FALUCY OF HIKE CHEAPNESS
If you were a Merchant what would you take for your customers ? Suppose
your competitor came to you and offered you a price per head for 50 of your
best customers, would you ask £l, £2, £lO each, or would you refuse to sell ?
Many a merchant who would not take a price for his customers outright,
persists in giving them away to his competitors, merely to gratify his mania
for cheapness—for the sake of a little temporary glory, a meagre transitory
success.
On the commercial headstone of many a defunct dealer should he inscribed,
“ He cheapened himself out of existence.”
It is easier to lose a customer than to make one.
Every step in the development of merchandising has been in the direction of
legitimacy, integrity, and liberality.
The successful retail merchant of to-day is a man of character. He educates
his trade, influences their taste, directs their selection, uses his technical know-
ledge to protect then ignorance of values. The modern store is an evolution ;
the pedlar’s pack, the itinerant van, the market stall, the permanent booth or
bazaar, the shop of variable prices, where the dealer asked as much as he could
get and the customer paid as little as he could ; and, last of all, the recognition
of the broad principle that any permanent relation between seller and buyer
must be based upon their mutual advantage. The trouble with a good many
dealers is their anxiety to pander to an unhealthy popular demand, to swim
with the stream, to give people what they want regardless of consequences.
This is all right up to a certain point, but the real merchant breasts the tide
and says where the craze for cheapness must stop.
He does this for his own protection. The weak dealer is stampeded by the
demand for cheaper and yet cheaper goods.
“My customers demand it.” is his invariable excuse. “ They can’t appreciate
good jewellery, silverware, or watches at a decent price. I know my trade and
must give them what they want.” He is a victim of his own cowardice. Of
course the people demand cheap goods, call for lower prices, clamour for bar-
gains, but always with the hope that the articles will prove better than the
price.
The dealer expects them to remember how little they paid and condone the
poor quality of the merchandise. They invariably forget the low price, but
the faults of the goods are in daily evidence.
They blame the dealer for shoddy merchandise without making allowance
for the shoddy price.
Fearful pressure is brought to bear upon both merchant and manu-
facturer to offer merchandise below the point at which honest goods can be
made or sold.
To give way to this temptation means mercantile suicide.
The Untold News of Christmas Gifts.
faVEN if we had filled this whole page with pictures of things suitable for giving to your friends
* and relatives at Christmas time, we could hardly have hoped to show just what you want to buy.
Perhaps you might he thinking of a Purse, a Watch, or a Candlestick, while we might have shown
Brooches, Muff Chains, or Opera Glasses. The best way is to come in and see the Finest Collection
of Fairly-Priced Things, just right for Gifts, that could he found anywhere. The Quality cannot be
questioned when it comes from STEW APT DAWSON’S. If out of town, our Xmas Booklet, entitled,
“ At Stewart Dawson’s ” must be of service to you, as its 24 pages are crowded with seasonable things.
We post it free. Your name and address on a post card, if sent to us, will ensure you getting a copy
It means loss of public confidence, loss of trade, loss of self-respect.
The retailer who, through greed for profit, fear of competition, or desire
for sensation, cheapens his product, uses inferior stones, cuts down the
quality of his plating, substitutes poor materials, or scamps the workman-
ship, is the dupe of his own sophistry.
The retailer who goes upon the principle that “ a flat is born every minute ”
is merely calling attention to his own birthday.
There is no price at which a merchant can sell trash, and not suffer for it.
He may almost give it away with the full understanding on the buyer’s part
that it is worthless, and yet he will be held responsible,
It comes from his store, and it represents him : his character, his methods,
and his business ideals ; it continues to represent him long after he has for-
gotten about it.
Ther9 is no real success, no stability, no future short of selling the right
goods, and doing the right thing.
The world is full of petty, half-formed minds that think to get the better of
the great laws controlling the science of business.
The successful merchant is one who is either too simple or too wise to make
this mistake.
It is easier to lose a customer than to make one.
To those not acquainted with the facts, we might say here that we began
business in 1871, in a small store in Liverpool (England), and that by dint of
diligence and conscientious work, which will surely win in any line of trade,
we have built up our business to what it is to-day—eight big, busy, con-
venient stores.
We have had few, if any, reverses in our career ; by constant push and
energy, pluck (not luck), and following out good principles we have, to-day,
worked up eight of the largest popular-priced retail stores in our line in
Australasia.
Thousands of women and men wear something bought from Stewart Dawson
and 00.’5.: a bangle, a brooch, a pin, or watch, and it would be a difficult
matter to find a dinner table on which one or more silver or plated things
bought from us could not be seen.
Our business has been growing, and it is by the application of these prin-
ciples that we expect to continue catering to the public for many years to
come.
We are in touch with the public, and they want us.
If you have any complaints to make, we will not only hear them, but
rectify them. We aim to satisfy everyone. It is not an easy job. We have
to satisfy and fit some people’s minds ; but we do even that, and we have
done so from our very humble beginning.
This policy is perhaps a selfish one ; it pays, and we shall continue to do
so.
by return mail.
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
YOUR MONEYS
La\ WORTH


The rod of economy is again to be applied
to the already poor-salaried civil servant of
Queensland. The latest proposal is to cut down
salaries of teachers at the end of their training
from £102 to £70 a year, “which is,” as Labor
member Airey put it to Education Minister
Barlow at a recent deputation, “practically a
breach of the terms of apprenticeship.”- The
Queensland Government is being put into some
desperately difficult positions by its pledge not
to increase taxation.
Jenkinson, M.L.A., has a motion on the
Queensland Assembly business paper favoring a
reduction in the salaries of members and Ministers
—the former to £150 a year, the latter to £700.
He also proposes to pay the leader of the Opposi-
tion an extra £300, making his Parliamentary
allowance £450. The latter proposal is wise, but
reduction of salaries of members would ultimately
prove to be very poor economy.
THEY DO THE WORK..
If troubled with indigestion, bilious attacks,
lack of appetite, or constipation, give CHAM-
BERLAIN’S STOMACH and LIVER
TABLETS a trial, and you are certain to be
greatly pleased with the result.
Use them and observe the directions with each
package and a cure is certain. Even dyspepsia is
cured by them. Get them from your dealer, and
he. will refund your money if you are not satisfied
after using two-thirds of a bottle. Chamberlain’s
Stomach and Liver Tablets are “Just What You
Need.” Sold everywhere. Is. 6d.*
We know now what is the matter with
N.S.W. Parliament; it has the “sleeping sick-
ness.”
Although Governor “Chinny” Clarke
avows his intention of returning to Victoria
after performing his task on the Imperial War
Office reorganisation, there are one or two per-
sonages.who know for certain that he will not.
Clarke was sent out originally to foster the scheme
of making Australia pay for a nice large squadron,
of which it might be deprived at an 1 ' moment.
He did as much as any man to push along that
idea. The War Office reorganisation job is
obviously a reward for loyal endeavors to help
along the policy, and it is regarded as certain to
lead up to a good, solid permanency.
Publican Power, M.L.A., has a neat
scheme for ridding N.S.W. of the useless toy
yacht Victoria. This is to permanently attach
the boat to the State Navigation Department.
When the Australian Government passes the
Australian Navigation Act, the Department will
go over to it, and also the yaoht. A charge of
£35,000 can be made under the head of “trans-
ferred properties,” and the heavy annual outlay
on the useless vessel will remain as a debit against
the “extravagant Australian Government.”
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All ohemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Next Distribution of the Pro-fits
as at 31st December, 1903.
Policies Issued before the Close of the Year will share In the bonus to be then divided.
The Amount of Cash Bonus divided among the members for the single year 1902 was £558,888.
(All Bonuses vest on Policies attaining a duration of two years.)
Persons desirous of effecting assurances with this Society are particularly requested to note the above carefully,
and to see that their applications are sent in early, either direct or through any of the Society Agents, so as to reap
the benefit of this year’s Bonus. pr Accumulated Funds, £19,000,000 ; Annual Income, £2,530,00U.
Directors — Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; The Hon. R.
J. Black, M.L.C. ;P. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.; Senator J. T. Walker; Benjamin Short, Esq. ; and James
Burns, Esq. General Manager and Actuary— Richard Tebcb, F.1.A., F.F.A., P.S.S.
Head Office-87 Pitt Btreet, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TARPAULINS,
CART, WAGGON and
MACHINERY
COVERS.
Canvas
Cotton Duck
Patent
Waterproof
Cloth.
ALL HAND-SEWN.
*9
AT SPOT CASH
PRICES.
estimates Sent by
Return Poet.
SEND FOR LIST.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 1
& 9 MARKET STREET,
Gramophone
-—Records
by this . . .
Celebrated Artist.
✓
WE have great pleasure in an-
nouncing that we have a selec-
tion of Records which are
marvellous examples of the wonderful
technique and splendid execution of Mr.
J acobs.
10in. RECORDS.
7946 Polonaise. Wieniawski
AS PLAYED IN AUSTRALIA.
7945 Serenata Moskowski
7in. RECORDS.
7905 Waltz Caprice
7906 Zigeunerweisen
7908 Overtas Mazurka
7909 Dudziarz Mazurka
7912 LegendO Wieniawski
7913 Polonaise Wieniawski
We have also a grand selection of
Records as sung at the Ada Crossley Con-
certs, of which we may mention “The
Four-Leaved Shamrock/* “ The Little
Silver Ring/* and 44 Home, Sweet Home/*
Photo, bp Talma.
Mr. JACOBS,
The Violinist of the Ada Crossley Concert Company.
Agents all over the World,
»
RECORDS
IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Send for Catalogues and
Price Lists.
Australasian Agents
VICTORIA—
A. P. Sykes, 272 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
Messrs. S. Marshall & Sons,
Rundle Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND—
Messrs. Heindorff Bros.,
210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA—
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.,
Barrack Street, Perth;
NEW ZEALAND—
Messrs. H. Gentles & Co.,
9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
TASMANIA—
Messrs. Wertheimer & Benjamin,
71 Collins Street, Hobart.
THE GENUINE
Automatic Valve Aerator
Used by all leading: Melbourne and
country Hotelkeepers.
Money Saving! Time Saving!
No Skilled Labor required.
Produces sparkling Aerated Waters of the
Highest Quality.
Absolutely Best and Simplest Machine
known.
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The VOLCANIC
AERATING
HACHINE
The Bulletin
The Volcanic Aerated Water Machine ie being used by MESSRB. SPIERS & POND
on the Railway Refreshment Bars, London and Scotland.
A few reasons why the “Volcanic” Machine is superior to alt others.
1. The Valve works automatically ; no other aerating machine of this class has an Automatic Valve.
2. The Water Cylinder holds 10 gals., and has two perforated partitions inside, causing the sparkle so much
appreciated. Weight, 801bs. Copper, thoroughly tinned inside and outside.
3. The gas tube holds 571bs. pure gas, being much larger than the tubes supplied with other plants.
4. The Turn-over Bottling Rack is made of the best metal. Thirty dozen per hour can be bottled with it.
6. The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine is the only one of its kind erected in the leading houses in Melbourne, including—
The Grand Hotel, Parer’s Crystal Caf<s, Parer’s The Duke Caf6, Young and Jackson’s, J. Richardson’s Hotel,
Bourke-street, Evans’Covent Garden Caf6, Lucas Caf6, Town Hall Hotel, Sheehan’s New Treasury Hotel,
Rubira’s Caf6, Victoria Coffee Palace, Hotel Metropole, Imperial, Lucas (Confectioner), Bath’s Hotel,
Britannia, Australian, A.N.A., City Arms, etc., etc. Also many others in the suburbs and the leading houses
in the country.
Price, £3O, with all accessories. same principle, £2O.
BPECIAL NOTICE.—The “ VOLCANIC” Machine was the first of its kind introduced into Australasia. It
received the Gold Medal against all competitors at the Ballarat Exhibition.
Write for Pamphlets, containing Testimonials from people who have used the machines for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor. Office: 101 Queeu-st., Melbourne. Depot: 130 Cecil-st., South Melbourne
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
,M Benger*s Food* ,
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger’s Food
For infants, invalids, and the A god, Delicious, Nutritive f and Digestible .
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere-
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
" If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


TATTE RS ALLS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and a«er ass
January. 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each os.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBl, and so on.
NOW OPEN
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“ TATTERSALL B ) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
NEWCASTLE CUP, Newcastle, N.S.W., DECEMBER 12, 50,000 at 5/L
SUMMER CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., DECEMBER 26, 50,000 at 5/L
PERTH CUP, Perth, W.A, DECEMBER 28, 50,000 at 5/1.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
AD A M 3, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please reques
lUt.lt to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PAROE
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania. _
THE
SMELTING * REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (a e miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Osh settlement on Amt of Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
For all information regarding Hates, Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
,— T~vTrnrn rtrrrnTvrtm IT
or. A. E. RUDDER & CO.. 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
TUB FAMOUS XIBMBOir FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness,
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. is ,
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consump *
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is genera ysu >
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OR" COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BEDt
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various ether treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
hat I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
eave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS' CASE.
"ELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
i reatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
■t once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
t. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good atonoe,
. nd “can’t be licked."—Yours sincerely,
Hodewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEIARNE’3
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward ma a
i mall bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
*sl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my .little girl when she
was seven months old. She’ had beet) suffering from
■ronchitis from her birth, anil now she is 3 years old, and
las not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
an for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town Ylotoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OP VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katanga, Vio.
" Mr. Hearne.—
" Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER#
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
Dear Sir,—
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had ohe night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walkecbinto
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
on«dbus —as walking caused me such pain and distrt ss in
thechest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yoursvery truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows “As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing Out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do —send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
verv much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
herto try it, and if she did not use it, note to waste it.,
but send it back She ,had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it.-■' On the
Wedhesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and coiiah and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,'
ajid on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did net require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Yetirs’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
"Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer front
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that, could not
be removed or eVen eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
"WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
I Wales.”
A Pive Tears' Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,— Kindly send ms ons
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES P. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Viotorle.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne. ....
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and. frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had sl ® U P‘
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined be ‘*
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED,
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—"After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago I have
not had the slightest return Of it. The medicine quiite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states! I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
phanoh depots Qfg ce . u ot 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d ; large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Font to any Address when not obtainable Local y.


KUTNOW’S POWDER.
A Perfect Remedy for Constipation, Derangements of the Stomach, Liver,
and Kidneys, influenza, Rheumatism, Gcut, Lumbago, Uric Acid Troubles.
Read what “The Medical Journal,” Nov.,
1902, says concerning Kutnow’s Powder.
“ Disorders of the liver—whether arising from excessive
or deficient secretion of bile, with such well-known character-
istic symptoms as headache, nausea, pain in the abdomen,
diarrhoea, low spirits, or with the important symptoms of
dyspepsia such as constipation, a feeling of abnormal fulness
or emptiness, heartburn, an offensive taste, foul breath, a
furred tongue, flatulence, irregular heart action, an emaciated
countenance, drowsiness, and languor—these are now most
successfully treated by Kutnow’s Powder. This preparation
is a natural antiseptic aperient. It acts as a solvent, loosen-
ing all hard fsecal matter which may have accumulated, and
eliminating the same without any suggestion of griping or
pain. Amongst the many eminent specialists who have com-
mended Kutnow’s Powder in the highest terms we note the
names of Sir Andrew Clark, M.D., Sir Morell Mackenzie,
M.D., and Professor Lawson Tait, M.D. We may add that
Kutnow’s Powder, although containing no sugar, is pleasant
to the taste, decidedly refreshing, and is well sustained by
the most delicate stomach. It produces an immediate sense
of relief, or to put it in the words of a patient, *lt seems to
at once take away a load of trouble.’ ”
Unique Testimony.
“ Kirsteen, Cissbury-road, Brighton,
“Dec. 15, 1902.
“Gentlemen, —You kindly forwarded me a bottle of your Kutnow’s
Powder a short time ago. lam very unwilling to testify, like the majority of
people do, that things have worked wonders, but really I cannot speak too
highly of it. I have suffered for years from constipation and liver troubles.
Your Powder has done all that it claimed, and more than that—it has given
me comfort. I have since taken two bottles, and have to-day sent an order to
my druggist for three more. Its action is sure and gentle, and at the same
time certain without any distressing effects. It would be a boon to many who
suffer in the same manner, and whenever I can I shall recommend it.—Thank-
ing you most sincerely for so good a remedy, faithfully yours,
“R. BARCLAY (Capt.).”
Beware of Fraudulent Substitutes.
Caution. —There are some unscrupulous dealers who, for
the sake of extra profit, try to foist upon the public substitutes
for Kutnow’s Powder. They may cost a few pence less, but are
worthless, and consequently dear at any price. Do not allow
yourself to be persuaded to accept any substitute.
Accept only the Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., Ltd, 853 Broadway, New York.
Proprietors -S. KUTNOW & CO,, Ltd., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
ro_Qi
Traders.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old-time trader—the self-reliant pioneer who
fought for his own hand, and made himself a
power amongst savage tribes by sheer strength of
personality and pride of race—will soon be little
more than a legend in the South Seas. That still
more picturesque, if less respectable, figure, the
beachcomber, has already disappeared from all
but the remotest of the atolls whereon he lived
his lazy, happy, reckless life in the good times
gone by. The Government Agent and the
missionary have tamed and taken the color out
of the life led by white men in the islands.
* * * *
There is hardly an inhabited islet in the Pacific
that is not claimed by one or other of the Powers.
If it is not held directly, it comes within the sco; e
of that fine invention —the Sphere of Influence.
This means that the trader is no longer a little
king on the island of his adoption. The time has
passed when he could make war and dispense High
and Low Justice. He is still permitted to defend
himself if attacked—although even then he is
expected to fire high or use blank cartridge if
possible—but he must not be quick to resent
insult, or prone to make displays of force. These
are not all the constraints imposed upon him.
The different religious denominations that have
stretched out eager, ghostly hands to seize and
save the souls of the natives insist that he shall
not be allowed to do anything to scandalise these
little ones in the Lord. He may no longer—at
least, not openly—court the favor of brown Beauty
with pieces of turkey-red, or tins of salmon, as he
did in the days when Louis Becke knew him.
Taken altogether, the life of the island trader of
the present time is about as full of wild freedom
and romantic incident as the life of a greengrocer
keeping a shop next door to a Wesleyan chapel.
* * * *
There is still a fine strong flavor of savagery
about the natives of the Solomon Islands. The
Malayta man is a cannibal when he is in luck, and
it is not so many years since an Austrian baron
and his party were massacred bv the gentle bar-
barians ot Guadalcanan The inhabitants of Ren-
dovo are not actively ferocious at present, but
they rest on the respectable reputation of having
killed more white men than any other islandersin
the group. It might, therefore, be supposed tliat
the old type of trader would still be found
flourishing in the Solomons. But no ; his day is
over there also. One solitary survivor of the
pioneers remains, like Ossian, to tell the tale of
heroes whom he knew.
* * * *
It was a bright, warm morning when the
steamer’s launch went coughing cheerfully through
the Diamond Narrows, a long, winding passage
somewhat wider than the Yarra at Melbourne,
separating Marovo from the more noted Rubiana
Lagoon. It is said that a small steamer can, with
care, be taken through this passage in one piece.
It may be so, but I know that, after entering the
Lagoon, the launch wandered about like the
person who is blindfolded in the fascinating deck-
game called Put-the-eye-in-the-Pig. This was
because she had to thread her way through a
maze of coral reefs lurking darkly under the
bright water, The lagoon itself, with its little
green islands shaped like bridecakes, and up-
turned boats, and shallow-crowned hats with
palms in them for feathers, is a fine sheet of water
to look at. It made me think of the pirate-lairs
hidden among the West Indian keys. And,
curiously enough, it was here that the old-time
traders used to meet and hold high revel. The
little isle of Nusisonga was their special rendez-
vous, and was as famous in its way and day as the
pleasant isle of Aves in the Spanish Main. It is
now a Wesleyan mission station ! The world is
full of intolerable ironies of this sort.
* * » •
Not far from Nusisonga, upon another small
island, dwells a trader who is a link between the
new school and the old. His house is built on
high piles and contains two very large rooms with
a verandah running all around. The furniture is
simple—chiefly cane easy chairs, couches and
tables. One of these latter was littered with the
latest magazines and copies of Sydney illustrated
papers. Every trader I met with was a
reader. They must either read or drink.
Only one of them has found another
alternative. They say he spends his spare time
in eating. This may be a libel, but it looks true,
as he is the fattest man in the Solomons. I was
also informed that he transacts by deputy what-
ever trading he has to do with natives suspected
of cannibalism. The alleged deputy was pointed
out to me—a thin, sour-looking man with a cast in
his eye. It pleases them to appear to believe all
they tell you, in those parts. This by the way.
The taste in reading displayed by these lonely
students in savage lands is truly catholic. They
read everything that comes to hand. A trader in
Aneityum in the New Hebrides is fond of scientific
works, with a preference for those that deal with
the newest discoveries in electricity, while another
fortunate creature on Santa Cruz had just started
to read Dickens, and asked me, with tears of
delight in his eyes, if I had ever come across such
an amusing cove as Dick Swiveller !
* * * *
“A man has hardly time to live, with all this
rushing,” said the Rubiana trader as he hurriedly
addressed his letters, and then raged around the
house in search of his new pith helmet. Yet he
could see the launch an hour before we landed on
his island, not to speak of having four months in
which to prepare for the arrival of the steamer !
But, like other men I have met, he believed that
everything could be done best at the last moment.
I understood and sympathised with his feeling.
As far as business methods were concerned, he
belonged to the old happy-go-lucky school of
traders who had no business methods at all.
* * * *
Over against his place, on the main island of
Marovo (or New Georgia, as it is absurdly named
in English) stands the house of another trader.
Here I met the survivor of the heroic age
previously referred to. He was a little, paie-
faced man with glittering dark eyes, and was just
getting around again after a bout of fever. This
malady, by the way, is thought nothing of in the
Islands. They take it as if it were a drink—easily
and naturally.
“Come and have a fever !” says one trader to
another.
“No thanks—l’ve just had one.”
“Then have another with me?”
They don’t say anything like this, of course,
but it will give you an idea of what they think.
As a matter of fact Island fever is rarely fatal,
and seldom very serious if properly scared with
quinine.
He told me some stirring and unpublishable
tales of the old days, and wound up by saying that
the Government and the churches had made
the fife of a trader in the Islands not worth
living.
“Look at what they have made of that place,”
he said, pointing to where Nusisonga lay like an
emerald on the bright bosom of the lagoon. I was
not surprised to notice that his eyes flashed ar.d
his thin, old hands were clenched. I knew that
he was thinking of old times, and old friends, and
old fights, and old frolics, and follies dead and
gone for ever.
I do not think that I have ever seen a more
pathetic figure. And it was just because there
was nothing pitiful about him, but, on the con-
trary, something proud and defiant that he
impressed me so strongly. His face had the look
of stern sorrow an old warrior might wear whfie
looking on the scene of a battle, in which he had
fought with gallant comrades longdead, and being
told that the site was about to be built upon by
the Salvation Army.
t m
, *, , , , .
Another trader, who belonged to a som
later generation, but not to the new school, had
an additional reason to give for the eclipse
gaiety in the Islands.
“I knew the fine old times were over when
the first white woman came,” said he. “Pyjamas
were good enough for us till then, and we used to
go about in them all day. But after that we
took to wearin’ white collars and white drill
coats—we sent all the way to Vila for them—
and were ashamed to look each other in the face
until we got used to the new order of things.
And, of course, with the new, clean white clothes
we had to put on a new suit of nice clean
manners, and were so blanky polite when we met
that we grew to hate the sight of each other,
The starch has been taken out of our style a
little since then, but the good old times will
never come back again. Never.”
Yet there are very few white women in the
Solomons even at this day, and very little
domestic life. Some of the traders are married
to white womeii, but their wives prefer to live in
Australia. I thought this a curious taste on the
part of the ladies. They might five like queens
on a small scale in the Islands, and have as many
black or brown hand-maidens to fan them and
wait upon them as if they were sultanas. On the
other hand, they would have to take the cutter
and sail a hundred miles or so if they wished to
pay an afternoon call to the white wife of the
other nearest trader who owned that luxury. And
then the two ladies would have little to talk about
beyond dress—and that would be an academic
subject, even to a woman, in the Solomons-and,
perhaps, the style and manner of the latest
imported missionary’s wife. Possibly the ladies
show their good sense by staying in Australia,
No theatrical companies—not even Dan Barry’s—
take in the Solomons.
* * • *
If you see a brown or black lady wearing a
colored wrapper in the vicinity of a trader’s place
you may almost take it for granted that she is his
native wife. I saw several of these dusky spouses,
and they were' not pretty. They had small hands
and feet, but the feet were flat. Their figures also
were not at all like those one sees of an afternoon
on the Block in Sydney. The poor ignorant
creatures appear to have never even heard of the
long-waisted corset. I daresay that in spite of
these drawbacks they are affectionate and faith-
ful, and 1 know that they smoke, because I have
seen them smoking. In fact I never saw one
without a pipe in her mouth. It takes Louis
Becke to find romance amongst such people—
though, to do that distinguished writer justice, he
dealt chiefly with the brown women of other
islands. It may be remarked here that when the
great German firm of Goddeffroy and Co, (tow
extinct, or reconstructed beyond recognition, but
at one time kings of the Pacific) were sending an
agent to an island, they used to wind up their
instructions to him with—“ Have a woman of
your own, no matter what island you take her
from. A trader without a wife is in eternal hot
water.”
.* * ...
There is no romance about the traders of the
present day. They are in the islands, first and
las tand all the time, to make money-and they
are making it. Their schooners are simply float-
ing shops, and they themselves are nothing more
than country storekeepers, whose business is'con-
ducted largely on water. But some of them are
al ?° Pinters, who m the course of a few years,
will grow most of the copra they sell. On some
other occasion I will describe what might be done
in the islands in this way by an enterprising
mfm with a snmll cap ital. He might
consult me, to begin with. But enough for the
* •
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Some historic property in Jamieson-street,
ig j n the market—a three-storeyed, verv
,v. . . . ■
old-fashioned house where, in the fifties, J. C.
Peters, a wine and spirit merchant, and, later on,
R. Towns and Co. did business. Jamieson-street
waa opened up in 1831 as the result of John
Jamieson’s cutting up for sale the triangular piece
of ground bounded by George-street, Church Hill,
ar)d Jamieson-street. The houses on the south
s £ de Q f Jamieson-street are all ancient, excepting
the one wherein Dill Macky leads his stormy
existence. The house where Mr. C. Harris deals
i n cur ios has a history in connection with the Cold
\v a t er party. In that house, then occupied by
Hunt, a cabinet-maker, on May 6, 1834, the
fi rs t public meeting to establish a temperance
soc j e ty was held. Chief Justice Forbes was in
chair, and Capt. Edward Parry, the
Arctic explorer, was one of the speakers. Then
W as founded the New South Wales Temperance
g oc ; e ty.
,
At a recent conference, the harbor boat-
owners of Sydney and their employees cordially
d i sa rr ree( j Q n most points in dispute, but were
, . . ~ ,
unanimous on one-that it is time to sup-
press the begging, cadging practice by which
almost everybody borrows a Government launch
for picnic purposes, associations and quasi-public
bodies being the chief offenders. Any conference
of inter-State delegates (they are always “ dele-
gates ”), held to air any little fad, claims the
right to entertain itself at the State expense in a
Government launch. Whenever a team of foot-
bailers, cricketers, baseballers, pmg-pongers or
cakewalkers visits Sydney, the local lion,
sec. barracks for a harbor excursion, pre-
ferably on a Sunday, always in the best
Government boat he can borrow, and always
at the cost of the community. Ihe crews
are paid overtime, of course; wear and tear, coal,
etc., are paid for by the Government ; and the
local committee does thei handsome thing by sub-
scribing, say, a bob in for a drink for the
skipper and engineer.


The Bulletin
FOR
25
YEARS
OFTEN DELIRIOUS.
dj
J
Itf
%
m
ill
“ tjiOß over 25 years I have been a martyr to
I headaches, and at times suffered terrible
agony,” says Mrs. Mary A. Saltrick, of
Carlton Hill, G-ympie (Q.). “ Sometimes the attacks
would last for a whole month, and at times I have been
delirious and hardly knew what I was doing. While
these attacks were on me, I could eat very little food,
and retching was a frequent occurrence. I had tried
many so-called cures, in the hope of getting relief,
but they did not benefit me in the least.
I also consulted two doctors, and they
both told me that the headaches might
be due to a small clot of blood obstruct-
ing the circulation of the blood, and
advised operating. But they seemed
rather doubtful about it. I was advised
by my friends to try Bile Beans, but
declined, having little faith in medicines
after my experiences, but later on, in
desperation, I decided to give Bile Beans
a trial. I took them according to direc-
tions. They afforded great relief in a
few days, and, continuing with the
course, the relief was wonderful. The
children also take Bile Beans when they
are at all indisposed, and, altogether, I
have found them an invaluable family
medicine.”
BILE BEANS are a prompt and permanent cure for BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHE (
INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNE SES,
NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, PIMPLES AND ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS, LAD
BREATH, ANAEMIA, INSOMNIA, LOSS OF APPETITE, SUMMER FAG and, in
fact, all ailments that owe their origin to defective liver action. BILE BEANS are
obtainable from all medicine vendors, price 1/IJ, or 2/9 large box (contains three times tlie
quantity of the 1/1-J- size), or post-paid from the BILE BEAN MANUI ACT.I RING
CO., 39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
One
Bean
One
Dose
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY,
I
ms
wm
1
-
Rhymes with
r
t
«V
&
a
A
1
V«.V\
1
i
a
>
/.
nN
and so does
PEARS
Down in Old Bohemia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Oh ! my feet are swinging westward to the tune
of Nevertire—
Westward to Bohemia ;
And my heart is full of longing and of passionate
desire,
Trav’ling to Bohemia.
For the shackles of a city, oh ! they galled me all
the year,
Till my brain was clogged with worry and my
tongue was tied with fear,
And I’m longing, longing, longing for the license
and the cheer
Down in old Bohemia.
Oh ! the lights that lead me onward are the same
old flick’ring lights,—
Lights of old Bohemia !
When we toasted, or we foasted, or went supper-
less for nights
Down in old Bohemia.
But I’m drawing nearer, nearer, I can hear the
merry roar—
(Must be one of Monty’s stories, and . they’re
clamoring for more ;
Or perhaps—) but “ Kiss me quickly! ” and there’s
Netty at the door,
Down in old Bohemia.
Not a wife, for all her beauty, just a woman slim
and tall—
Woman of Bohemia;
But —the welcome that she gives me in the shadow
of the wall !
Ah! the old Bohemia!
And the welcome of the others, shall it ever be
forgot ?
“ Is it beer, old chap, or brown-stuff, or a spiced
ale steaming hot ? ”
But the pilgrim, home returning, does the needful
for the lot
Down in old Bohemia.
Oh ! the wonderful rejoicing for the lamb that has
been lost,
Here in old Bohemia !
And it’s—“ Someone’s paid to-morrow ! Does it
matter what the cost,
Down in old Bohemia ? ”
And it’s —“ Won’t you sing the old song ? Won’t
you sing it once again ? ”
Harp and flute, with subtle feeling, softly woo the
haunting strain,
And I sing it, almost voiceless, till they join in
the refrain—
“ Down in old Bohemia !
Ah ! the readings from the masters as in days of
long ago—
Here in old Bohemia 1
And there’s someone with a picture that he’s not
afraid to show,
Here in old Bohemia ;
And there’s someone with a sonnet of a sunny
Southern land,
Someone with a lusty poem that the papers all
have banned,
And they read them, without falter, for they
know we understand —
Here in old Bohemia.
“Pass the ‘demi’!” “Have another?” How
the merry moments fly—
Back in old Bohemia !
But the shackles of the city ! Is it time to say
goodbye ?
Time to leave Bohemia ?
Ah ! the old Dutch clock is striking, and the mid-
night hour has flown ;
I was dreaming by the fireside and the others all
have gone;
Only, in this shaded corner, I and Netty, all
alone,
Here in old Bohemia 1
“Must you go?” I hear her saying; “shall we
see you soon, again,
Back in old Bohemia ? ”
Surely in her eyes is sorrow ; surely in her voice is
pain;
Pain in old Bohemia !
But I draw her closely to me and her eyes grow
wondrous bright,
And the heaving of her bosom is a swan-song of
delight;
“ Turn the lamps down, Netty! Netty, lam
staying from to-night,
For ever in Bohemia.”
via
MILKY WHITE.
The Undoing of Charlie Brown.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Them was not a better man than Charlie Brown
among all the “coffee-pots” of the district before he
was married, and that’s saying a lot. “Coffee-pots’*
they call those who are proud of their big beam-
engines, double crushers, and shredders, vacuum
pans, electric lights, and all the other up-to-date
gear on sugar plantations. Properly speaking,
the “coffee-pot ” is man in all his glory armed with
a three-eighths spanner and a lump of waste for
each piece of machinery, and ail unending string
of cuss-words. The sugar-mill also possesses a
bright and shiny toff who is the engineer, and an
expensive chemist, to say nothing of a frilly mill-
manager.
Charlie was engineer, mill-manager, sugar-
boiler, boilerman, rolled into one. It is not an
easy job working in a mill even though it be not
overburdened with machinery. The crowd of
niggers feeding the rollers and the far-out lot
boiling the juice with megass take some watching.
So also does the nigger watching the open pan,
who calls out at a critical moment, “Challie,
Challie, sugar he cook, sugar, sugar, cook finish !”
and Charlie has to rush across the molasses tank
bridged with a piece of foot planking. ’Twas a
wonder Charlie didn’t go over—several times he
went mighty near it. He was everywhere, always
greasy, and always with a hammer or spanner in
his hand, firing out effusively great rolling lumps
of swear words, and dodging through the mill
trying to bustle things along.
There used to be some talk then of how a nigger,
sick of digging out molasses or tired of firing,
would run up against the spanner, accidental-like,
and go back to work as willing as could be.
Charlie was reckoned mighty handy with the
spanner when stopping ugly rushes. Charlie’s
positiondidn’tmakehim “stuck-up,’’and he always
rode in to town with the hands, and shared in the
common headache on Monday morning. That
was before the boss brought a governess from
town, for the kiddies. This was Charlie’s undo-
ing. She was greatly taken with the mill; y’see
there was no mill nor cane where she came from,
and, being curious, she was always strolling
through the works. She told Charlie she couldn’t
understand how the' niggers were so clumsy
shovelling the molasses, but he couldn’t very well
tell her that they did their work in the mill
mostly in a loin-cloth, and sometimes with less
clothing than that. Since her coming he made the
niggers wear clothes, which made all the difference.
She must have pestered Charlie, always trotting
through the mill; at least we thought so, for he
couldn’t go bullyragging and using swear-words
while she was there. But instead of her visits
pestering Charlie they rather seemed to please
him, and he began to dress himself as sprucely as
he could among juice and steam. When he
expected her at the mill he kept clear of cuss-
words, even when he was playing euchre and his
right bower was bumped by the joker. He even
knocked-off coming to town on Saturday nights,
pretending he busied himself getting the mill
ready for Monday morning. As time went on he
became so quiet he forgot to bounce the niggers,
and a couple of rowdies from the field who were
now helping to tend the rollers got it into their
heads that he was a bit afraid of them. One day,
when the usual difference happened along, the
niggers rushed him before he could find his
spanner—he’d got out of the habit of having it
handy. Charlie slipped away quietly to an
exhaust pipe and turned on steam. He said he
was really sorry afterwards, but something had to
be done.
Pay-day came, and Charlie went with his
cheque to the Post-office Savings Bank—a thing no
man on the plantation had ever done before —and
rode straight home again, leaving the nigger-
driver and overseer behind him. The overseer
had his little notion of how to rectify matters, and
he took Billy, the nigger who looked after the
pan, into his confidence. Billy didn’t mind when
lie got one bottle down, and there were two more
to follow.
* * * •
The governess was admiring the whirling of the
machinery when Billy called to have the pan let
go. One of the planks over the molasses tanks
gave way somehow, and Charlie splashed and
spluttered up bucketfuls. The nigger was grin-
ning overhead, with something in his grin that
suggested he knew something about it. Then
Charlie let the pent-up language of weeks go, as
he went for the nigger hammer and tongs, and
they took turn about at falling in the open tanks.
When Charlie came out he went away, ehanged
his clothes, and fortified himself with a strong
pull from the overseer’s bottle. The overseer was
dead-sure things were going his way, but they
weren’t—Charlie returned to the old bad, mild
habits. What does he do but go and apolo-
gise to the governess for his language. The
overseer’s whisky must have run to his head, for
he mixed his apology with what sounded like a
half-hearted proposal, and she accepted him.
It was bad business for the boss. He had to
find a sugar-boiler to assist Charlie and swear for
him after that, so y’see how marriage straight-
away interfered with him.
I wouldn’t be surprised in time if he came down
to one of your toff engineers or a frilly mill
manager. That wife of his could make him take
on anything.
MITTY.
The Philosophy of Marriage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
You are really thinking of getting married ? Then,
of course, you are not in love. If you were in
love you would not think of marriage ; you would
simply rush headlong to your doom. As you are
evidently not in love it is worth while attempting
to save you. Lovers have to go over the brink
like the Falls of Niagara. There is nothing mar-
vellous about it; what is there to prevent them ?
But you, if you are really thinking, and not
merely thinking you are thinking, are in a position
to be reasoned with, like a mad cow in a stock-
yard.
You admire the lady ? Then don’t marry her.
It is a very happy condition of affairs. Better
admire a lady you don’t own than own one you
don’t admire. Marriage will most likely change
your condition for a worse. You will begin either
to love her and hate your mother-in-law, or to
love your mother-in-law and hate her. Man can-
not serve two masters.
To begin to love a woman after marriage is to
waste love. Love is intended to simplify calcula-
tions of life by cancelling the equivalents—by
leading to marriage. When you are married you
are out of the reckoning. Never risk falling in
love till y . i have fallen into nearly everything
else without being hurt. In falling, it isn’t the
fall that hurts; it’s the stop. So the falling in
love won’t hurt you. It is the inevitable stop that
gives you the jar—the family jar.
Anyway, why marry in haste ? Consider the
matter for a century. A century could not be
spent better.
Many of the alleged advantages of married life
are procurable without marriage. By baking your
own cake and pudding with a fine inattention
to expert directions they will have the homelike
quality that distinguishes the food upon which
husbands are fed from the baker’s productions,
which are good enough for tlife bachelor. Step on
a woman’s dress tail and you will enjoy flashes of
feminine wit and repartee more cheaply than by
getting married. You can refrain from smoking
in the house without keeping a woman to dare you
to let her catch you stinking the house out. And
an unmarried man, when out late, can creep into
his own house like a thief in the night if that’s
what he likes.
But to learn the objections to marriage it is best
to get married. Women make excellent teachers.
.Lhere are very few disadvantages about marriage
that a woman can’t explain to her husband.
KATI KATI.


Used It 20 Years
Wben My System Was Run Dawn. When I Was Weak and Miserable.
When I Could neither Eat nor Sleep.
<5?
sx
\
Mr. F. W. Dußieu, of Collingwood,
Victoria, sends us his photograph and
says': 1 _ f ; ' ;
tl I certainly ought to know about Ayer S
Sarsaparilla, for- I have used it over 20
years. My faith* in it is greater today than
ever. lam anxious to tell every one of its
blood-purifying power and its value as a
remarkable preventive of disease. I don’t
wait until I am down sick before taking it.
Just as soon as I feel weak, exhausted, or
lose my appetite, or don’t sleep well, I
take a few doses, and in a day or two am
all right. I tell my friends to keep it on
hand, for it’s ready then the very day they
want it. I know it has often prevented
me from being seriously ill, and I have
many acquaintances who tell the same
story.”
“The World’s Createst Family Medicine.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been sold for over half a century. It has been tried
and tested in every way. Nothing like using an old, reliable, and effective
medicine. Intelligent people do not like to experiment. It’s too dangerous.
Unknown and untried medicines often work more serious results than the
disease. When you need a Sarsaparilla, get “Ayer’s,” for it is the oldest,
strongest, jtnd best Sarsaparilla you can buy.
Cling to the kind that has been tested for 60 years. For purifying the blood,
strengthening the digestion, and bracing up the whole nervous system, use
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Aypp ? Q SarsaparUla
Tested and Tried by Millions of People
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills. They cure constipation, biliousness
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYBB & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEIL’S
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomaeh.S „ Flush*
tags of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of
sfef. g& sbA t
earnestly invited to try one Box of these PiUs, and they will be acknowledge
GU BEECH AM’S MIAS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system, tor a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
the, net like magic-. tew dose, will work wonder, upon the »»d
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexly, bring g Qf fche human frame. These
arousing with the Rosebcd of Health the Whole . * th e best guarantees to the
are "facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of socie y. Patent Meditinti *
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beerham s Pdh nave the Largest txue oj a
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is l£d, and 2s 9d ea^ch.
Dr.li.li.Smith,
Consults by Letter, £l-
- COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the'
thf RPOWN-SEOUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
SOME BOOKST SIR ROBERT!
The Bulletin
home cyclopedia
nniucnf
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plate*. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lunK'Wft, a thou-
*and questions that occur to the minds pt young add old, tut about
which they teel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived .
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. .It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 60 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Date, East Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated. Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d_ posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, le ; post, Is 2d. All Zola s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. XJp-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is' each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, 6d each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is 6d. Fowler’s Science of Life, 10s (id.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of-Fatb (Dreamer s
Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is, post Is 2d. Rosario,
2s. Will Power. (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s!)d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
os 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter n riter
Up-to-D.vte, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Purlic Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is ; post
Is 3(i. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cab net Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’.s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6a 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your each. Hie Established SO I cuts.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG-
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN n STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make up, IHustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Carps, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. , post,
Is 3d Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made East, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan s p ree-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling’Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), is. 3d. posted. Chkvasse’s Advicbto a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs. Is. 3d. post free. G. YV.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. -The Slide Rule and. How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, Ins. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
'Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 6s. 6d. posted.
BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
.. ■ ■
1
8
POOR MAN’S
R'RIEND
HAS STOOP THE TEST OF TIME.
In over 100 years’ world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and ail long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) 1/1 J 4,
2/9. 11/-, and 22/- pots.
Dr.ROBERTS'ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1 /1 54; 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by —
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
G. L. ROBERTS, Tf.D
Born 1766. Died £834.
The Bulletin
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.P.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain," Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily personally or. bv letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, LUngr, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCER’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
lt has been the means of Curing Thousands who fo lowed out the instructions contained
th This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
• Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“ Press Extracts ” posted ftee throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
"ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
At Poverty Point.
( Continued).
A very ancient friend, whom all had thought gone to
his well-earned re9t, was recently resurrected by Mel-
bourne ’Eralj). Said the 'Erald : “ Just at the close of
the second act Mr. Harpur had occasion to discharge his
revolver. Simultaneously with the report of the weapon
a large mirror, which was fixed on top of the stage, fell
with a sickening thud on the ill-starred comedian.” That
good old thud!
“ J.A.C.”: * A Flat” says (B. 19/U/’03) that, “as a
rule, operatic music has been written for phenomenal
voices, and in some cases the part almost disappeared with
the singer.” Not as a rule, but, distinctly as an excep-
tion. Composers, although they frequently have some
particular singer in view, are nog foolish enough to have
their operas completely shelved for the want of suitable
voices to sing them. Isolated oases have occurred,
such as Bellini’s “ 11 Pirata,” written for Kubini.
Many operas, composed for phenomenal voices,
have completely vanished from public ken, but not
so much for lack of vocalists able to sing them
as from deficiency of interest in the music itself.
“ A Flat” continues “ For example, the extremely
high music written for ‘ The Queen of Night ’ in Mozart’s
‘ Zauberftote ’ was written for a special singer, and when
she retired the opera had to be shelved until Carlotta
Patti (Adelina’s sister) and lima de Murska came along
with their three-octave organs, and gave the great work
another shsw.” The opera has never been shelved,
although it is not now much performed out of Germany ;
the reason is that, in the present-day evolution of musical
taste, it has become somewhat antiquated. The former
of the ladies he mentions, Carlotta Patti, never sang in
opera in her life—her lameness precluded that. Further,
she had no “three-octave organ”; three-octave voices,
for practical purposes, do not exist. That she could, and
may, have well-rendered “ Gli Ahgui d’ Inferno,”
“ Astrafiammante’s ” aria, I do not doubt, but in the
course of an engagement with her, extending over some
little time, I never heard her sing it. The song reaches
F in altmo., but the note is merely touched, not sustained.
There never has been any difficulty in finding exponents
of the part; I have known several —Sessi, Marie Marimon,
Gerster, and others. 1 [This discussion now stops short.—
Ed. B.]
“ T.D.” : Re Poverty par. anent Flo. Esdaile, Florence
Young, and others, and the statement that “good Aus-
tralian voices were more plentiful ” in the old days of the
Royal Comic Opera. They were not more plentiful, but
they were made more of. There are three things that
militate.against any big display of Australian voices just
now. If the girl possesses money enough, she rushes her
voice off to Europe. If she has no money, she studies
locally for six months, and then flies rouhd to “ compe-
titions,” where she amasses niedals and half-guinea
trophies, awarded on the principle that music is a noise,
and therefore noise is necessarily music. The third, and
'most regrettable, reason is, that there is no comic opera
to speak of nowadays, and good singers with brains don’t
wish to spend their days over the patter songs of musical
comedy. . • 1
An opera-singer, who recently died atCassel, Germany,
was, jti accordance with his expressed wish, cremated to
the “fpe .music ” from Wagner’s “ Valkyrie.” Theatrical
totbelast! . \ \


YOUR GARDEN
WANTS
A
HOSE.
That is, if it
hasn’t got
one already.
It ougrht to have
a Garden Hose
if you want
good crops.
You can’t better
the best. . .
You’ll get it at . .
PERDRIAU & CO.
RUBBER
MERCHANTS
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
'We Ship on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
Models
£2*lo to £s*s*o
MEAD CYCLE COm
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocyclea
Tyres. Accessaries, Sporting Goods
and Sewing Machines Half Usual
Prices. Write for Catalogues and
Special Offer using sufficient for-
eign postage. Address Dept 339-B
CHICAGO
IT* S«* A*
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE GOGOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
VfORTHINGTOM.
TRADEMARK.
Boiler Feed Pump.
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, London
Warren Webster & Co. Nowjereey.
Enquiries Invited foe
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
:
Forks,
nives,
Scissors
PLATE and
CUTLERY
The Bulletin
mbs
WOLF
or
«v#
J. &J. MAXFIELD Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also
“THE BLOCK.”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Sole Agents for
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Sydney and. Melbourne.
FAY-EGAN WOODWORKING MACHINERY
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
*5
s
The “ Utopia " Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that Oottld be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It Swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; on# for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x 18iin., opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, the Address o»
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Boilers* Engineers Tools and Supplies, etc., etc.
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
T.
HAVE IN 3TOCK AND TO
GOODALL & CO., hay st., Sydney
—Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
. 'S.t,
and M
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Speci
f '.y?' 5 & 5
r
Mill
New and
iachinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
iond-Hand Machinery always available.
■- • *
SIZB, 6J" x 3J" x 5",
We are Direct Importers
and have
for Sale—
SNOW DUPLEX
PUMPS
(all sizes
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRVTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 CLARJE3KTOE STREET, SYDKTEYi '
The Bulletin
“THE RAPLIN”
Hand Ice Machine
FOR DOMESTIC USE.
A Great Convenience in
the Country.
ICE PRODUCED IN 20 MINUTES
by simply turning a handle.
A Decanter of Water cooled in
3 Minutes.
No Risk. No Trouble.
KEEP COOL!
lOE MAKING
—AND—
COOLING PLANTS
SUITABLE FOB
Cold Stores, Meat Companies,
Provision Merchants,
Steamship Companies.
aar ESTIMATES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
REID'S PATENT
Mechanical Punka
The Only Satisfactory Ventilator.
Cool Rooms. No Flies.
Can be operated by Electricity,
Steam, Gas, Oil, or any other
power.
For Restaurants, Factories,
Offices, Shops, Hospitals,
Private Residences, Steam-
ship Saloons, &c.
IT. OUTHRIDOE, Ltd., 71 Clarence St., SYDNEY.
