

McE WAN’S ALE GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
R. Q. WATKINS «SC CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ "and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
13,800 MACHINES SOLD.
Two
Cord
Medal*
Three
Silver
Medals
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOSIMC, X
WONDERFUL, VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life-size—causes roars of iaughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character—very superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond (a good catch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox, the Great Yankee Bicycle Puzzle (very
ingenious), and, last of all, the famous Wizard of the
North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instructions enclosed).
Ttys splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 7s 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
GIBSON. BATTLE & C° * 85 put street, SYDNEY
8014 Agents for RUSTON, PROCTOR & CO., Ltd., LINCOLN.
FINISHING THRASHING MACHINES, With Patent ECCENTRIC MOTION for driving SHAKERB & SH Improved Doubl*-Crank
Finishing Thrashing Machines, with Self-Oiling Drumshaft Bearings. Less Driving Power required. Less Oil. S!A
Portable and FTxed STEAM and OIL ENGI Laren ' S
Compound TRACTION ENGINES. Moffat Virtue SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES. Broadbent’s HYDRO EXTRACTORS.
For FULL PARTICULARS a*d ILLUSTRATED LISTS apply to - - GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 86 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
WORK with only ONE OILING, and with less than THREE PINTS of OIL.
ENGINES
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831 WHISKY.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages,
price, 4s. 6d.
HOBART.
— zm —
(jadleys flrient [jotel.
PIONEER
iiTHTT-
leather!
m E LTIN CP
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
PINFOLD’S WINES
CONTENT CONNOISSEURS.
GjK for tUairtvti "(fikd -(soHom, '
'Off i ANDO re/tKSOff
the Discoverer
tOO /rare old
November 11th, ’O3.
21 Derwent-st., Glebe, Sydney.
The Manager.
Dear Sir,—X duly received the
two bottles of T’EPTO-CHLOR,
which my wife has taken ac-
cording to instructions—the
efficacy of which, in her case,
has proved marvellously effec-
tual.
Having tried doctors’ pre-
scriptions, and otherwise, for
upwards of 10 years, I think it
only just to you and others to apprise you of the effect
of your medicine, for which I predict a great future.
Meantime I am, yours faithfully, WALTER HUBBARD.
PEARSON’S PEPTO-CHLOR is not a cure-all, but
the absolute cure for INDIGESTION.
Obtainable at 2/6 and 4/- per bottle, all chemists, or
direct from the Orlando Pearson Peptir-chlor Co., Sydney
Stock Exchange Buildings.
%
A
A
©
r~j
HERVEY’S
RfICKfIROCK.
18 Tears Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
mAR*
COOL.
ROOF
m
AGENTS:
Leading Ironmongers
everywhere.
COOL HOUSES
WHITE COMPO.
or TERRA COTTA
To Avoid Fr»>i
•ten see Trade Mi 1
«ALonEACH case
FACTORIES:
a- “J
: For these two lines address— 1
ARABIC” DEPOT, MELBdJ
IRNE.
fIKM
Co^
Chea
cm
PAi
on
fHE
‘PLUM
mm
THC
‘PLUM’
FTJ. ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly bellow ground., ring
like a hell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we knew the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and. having had them in nse tor a number of year*, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The "PLUM” RAZOR BTROP, specially made for this KuM, 7«. M,
m
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d oak®.
( Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 18s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, Si*.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful Case, 30s.
Resistbrbd and sent Post Frkr to ant part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange or Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Asente CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
“On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
Price, 6s, The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
ASTHMA amd BRONCHITIS CURED
mL U ? lngr iP^- SE ’ S A . ST ” W, A °URE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle:
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st.j Brisbane
Please mention Bui.lktin when writing.
Are YOU
Like This—?
mm
m
If your scalp is
like this, wouldn’t
you like to see It
well covered with
hair ?
Wouldn’t you like
to have it like it
used to be?
Of course you
would.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC.
It’s different from all other hair pre-
parations because it’s better.
You will follow directions, and by-and-
bye you will be gratified by seeing the
hair spring up slowly, but none the less
surely ; and in a little while your scalp
will be thoroughly covered with hair.
If you will faithfully follow my in-
structions with every bottle, I guarantee
you will get the above result.
CAPILLA is obtainable at all chemists,
2s. 6d. a bottle : or I will post a bottle direct
to you for 3s. 3d.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS,
Sole Proprietor and Inventor,
164 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
By Sixty Bulletin Writers,
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
Cloth, 300
Helidon Spa Water.
Natural Liquid Food.
From Helidon, Queensland.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1241.]
[Thursday, November 26, 1903.
Registered at the General Post Offloe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post aB a Newspaper.


B m trade flaoermement
NEW BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S HAIL
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop.
■
Morlev’s Life of Gladstone, 3 Vols., 50s, postage 2s 6d.
Kiulinff’s The Five Nations, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Meade (L.T.), The Witch’s Maid, 2s Gd & 3s Gd, p.
Burchell, The Lady of the Bass, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Clouston, Our Lady’s Inn, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
. 6d.
, UUF Jaiiuj S IMII, w » </g UU, y. ~
he Children Who Ran Away, 3s Gd, p. Gd.
'ln a Little House, 2s Gd & 3s 6d, p. Gd.
Stansbie, Metallurgical Chemistry, 5s 6d, postage 6d.
Wells, Mankind in the Making, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Bursrin, The Ladies of the Manor, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d,
Bavly; Under the She Oaks, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hodder, Daughter of the Dawn, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Praed (Mrs. Campbell), The Other Mrs. Jacobs, 2s 6d i &
3s6d, p. 6d. Beavan,Tube,Train, Tram &Car,6s, p. 6d.
m
(4 Doors South of King St.) & at
Melbourne.
PHIL MAY’S DRAWINGS.
THE Bulletin Newspaper Company has_had
carefully engraved and printed on toned art
paper in the best style for mounting and framing
a few examples,
Limited to Twenty-five Numbered
Copies in Each Case
the following drawings by Phil May
THE CARDINAL.
Exhausted.
MEASURING THE BABY.
A fine series of drawings illustrating humourous verses
by Edmund Fisher. Size of picture, 18| x 13iin.
This is one of May’s most popular illustrations, and
forms a charming family picture. Price, ss.
HONOUR AMONG SPIELERS. i
Two card-players.—“ ’Arry ! are we going to play fair
now? or ail we know?” Size of picture, 7$ x oin.
One of the best examples of May’s work in Australia.
The figures are carefully drawn in “ open line,” and the
expression is perfectly caught. Price, 2s tid.
THE TORTURE OF A JEWISH FAST-DAY.
Miss Rebecca Abrahams (reading late or} the afternoon
of Yom Kipurfrom an evening paper) : “ The wretched
murderer, on the night before his execution, ate a
hearty meal of steak and onions.”
Mr. Isaac Abrahams: “O, mein Gott! stop, Rebecca,
have mercy ! Doij , t make a boor oldt man s nio.utn
vater like that! ” ■ ' , . .
The figures of Jew and Jewess are full of character, a
forceful and effective drawing. Size of picture,
8£ x 6£in. Price, 2s. 6d.
THE MAJESTY OF THE LAW.
Presiding Beak : “ Well, b’ys, before I dale wid yez, tell
me where ye got to afther I left, ye? lasht noight.” _
Picture of bash magistrate trying his jolly companions.
A fine drawing, full of humourous character. Size of
picture, 9 x 9in. Price, 2s. 6d.
A CURIOSITY IN HER OWN COUNTRY.
A very fine-drawing, in “ open style,” of black-gin and
piccaninny, eyed by curious spectators. As an example
of May’s work, no better can be found anywhere. The
reproduction is worthy of a place upon any con-
noisseur’s wall. Size of picture, 8 x 6jin. Price, ss.
HARMONY.
Figure of typical Irishman step-dancing to the harping
of Queen Victoria and the piping of Pope Leo XIII. A
bright and interesting drawing.. Size of picture,
7JxlOJin. Price 2s. 6d.
BUT WHICH IS TO STAND IN FRONT?
“Never in the history of the Empire” (said Sir Henry
Loch, at the .Melbourne Centennial ..banquet) “never
has it been more important than at the present moment
that the Mother Country and the Colonies should stand
with a steadv front, to oppose the great Powers of
Europe, armed to the teeth, and standing face to face.”
Figures of Russian, German, Turk, Frenchman and
Spaniard threatening John Bull, who is cowering behind
Australia (emblematical female figure). A clever and
remarkable example of May’s talent. The character of
the typical figures; is admirable. Size of. picture,
7J x lOfin. Price 2s. 6d:
HIS WIFE’S POCKET.
A series of humourous sketches of a husband trying vainly
to find “ that pocket.” A good example of drawing and
an interesting picture. Size, 12 x Bin. Price, 2s. 6d.
CHINESE CHEAP LABOUR.
Cardinal Moran said at Adelaide that “ the Chinese were
industrious men, while the unemployed whites were
lazy ” But suppose the Cardinal’s reference had ex-
tended to the brotherhood !—Figure of Cardinal Moran
as a Chinaman, introducing Chinese priests to Austra-
lia. Consternation of the Irish clergy. A humourous
and very clever drawing. The character of the priests
and the Chinese is wonderfully caught, and the draw-
ing is a brilliant example of pen-work. Size of picture,
. 10£ x 7Jin. Price, 2s. 6d.
THE MINSTREL.
Figure of Parkes with guitar, singing to his own music ;
with introduced likeness of Francis Abigail. A fine
drawing, full of colour ; and an effective presentation
of Parkes. Size of picture, 11J x siin. Price, 2s. 6d.
PETER LALOR.
A fine and characteristic likeness of one of the best-
known of Australian Irishmen. Size of picture,
II x 6|in. Price, 2s. 6d.
JUMPS AND JIM-JAMS.
What Mr. Brown saw last Christmas. Picture of all the
imaginary monsters seen by Mr. Brown in his dreams
on his own doorstep. A famous and effective drawing.
The original was sold tor £l5 in Melbourne. Size,
17J x 13|in. Price, 7s. 6d.
ON THE MELBOURNE “ BLOCK.’’
Procession of well-known Melbourne people—in all
twenty-nine figures, with final likeness of May. The
original was sold in Melbourne for £2l. Size of picture,
16x16. Price, 7s. 6d.
SOME NOTORIOUS PEOPLE IN AUSTRALIA.
Remarkable series of likenesses of Patrick Jennings,
Graham Berry, Sir W. Robinson, James Fairfax, John
Lucas, J. L. l’urves, Sir H. B. Loch, Downer, Peter
Lalor, Julius Vogel, George Reid, J. Edgar Byrne, Bill
Beach, David Gaunson, Bishop Barry, David Syme, J.
C. Neild, George Coppin, R.. Burdett Smith, T&whiao,
Brunton Stephens, Lord Carrington, jockey Gorry,
Tom Hales, editor Haddon, Dr. Francis-
Abigail, Robert Stout, Jack Robertson, Duncan Gilh.es,
George Dibbs, Henry Parkes, Cardinal Moran, police-
inspector Anderson, Dr. O’Doherty, W. B. Dailey,
Alfred Stephen, Arthur Palmer, S. W, Griffith, and
others. ' „
The original was sold privately for £25. Size of picture,
lit x 19|in. Price 7s. 6d.
J*
/t2T Notk. —These drawings have been carefully
chosen to exhibit May’s best or most interesting
work in Australia from all aspects.
All are printed with wide margins; and tie
effect is sometimes better than that of the originals.
The reproductions lose very slightly in quality,
arid gain in brilliancy. ... a
The issue in this form is strictly limited ; ana
application for the pictures should be made of
owed to ensure supply. Orders cannot be filled
after exhaustion of the few remaining copies.
No better or more interesting decoration for an
Australian office or home can be found than one
or more of these drawings, which will always have
a high artistic value.
On sale at The Bulletin office, or sent by post,
securely rolled in cartridge sheaths, to any
address for sixpence extra.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
(registered) THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, and ALL AFFECTIONS of
the THROAT and LUNQS, and the PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
ASK FOR HUDSON'S, and take no substitute. AN IDEAL REMEDY,
>v
m
2S?
si
m
Contain’ ng no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROAT, LOBB
OF VOICE.
They ..mpart a clear and silvery tone to the Voice,
and, o\Ving to the instant relief they give in all
cases of irritation, they are now used by Leading
et t and Public Speakers.
Mav be taken daily by old and young. Their antiseptic properties prevent abnormal fermentation of^ the food,
and anfthus helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold b,vall Chemists. Tins, 1/6. Agencies in all the Australia
l Now Zealand. Sydney Depot: 6* 7 Queen s Placf,.
Of Marcus Clarke (and Some
Others).
HE was nice. It is not a flattering term in
masculine association, but it fitted him like a
glove. And his niceness was as a velvet
cushion whereon to display the few facets—not
one of them is a perfect jewel—of his genius.
Nice as his surroundings he seemed when I met him,
in the year 1876. It was late January, and fiercely hot,
but within the National Gallery there was coolness and
rest, and in the room with the pleasant outlook off the
library just such surroundings as a literary man might
desire.
I had a bundle of manuscript, and no other intro-
duction whatever. Nevertheless the “lips of laughter"
moved pleasantly and the “eyes of light” shone in a
little while, and I got a glimpse of the most charming
personality that has so far graced the literary world of
Australia. He had only the old familiar counsel as to the
literary life. “If you want to prove that life is not
worth living, persist.”
It was discordant with himself as with his sur-
roundings. And when after a while the door was
suddenly opened, and with a lot of frou-frou and flutter,
and “you’re a very pretty fellow, are n’t you,” a tall and
stately lady faced him, I was not a bit more convinced.
(That lady, I learned later, was not remotely connected
with a novel in which a Dr. de la Morte figured largely.)
“ Come up this evening,” he said, “ and we will dine
together at the club.”
j*
The club was the Birdcage, in all its glory—
Butters’ birdcage, just opposite the Argus office. Don’t
look for it now. It seemed a place of glory from
the threshold inward that night. Butters was then
in his prime, fresh from his Premiership in Fiji, a Rob
Roy in modern costume—the Butters costume, which
has never changed. And round about, in the vestibule,
a score of men, who talked of big affairs in city life. The
waiters, who moved with noiseless grace, were full-
blooded Fijians, and the whole interior was a glory of
palms and ferns.
Clarke was very quiet, but persistent. He got exactly
what he wanted and without any fuss. When we had
found our seats in the dining hall it seemed that, without
any preconcerted arrangement, Dr. P. Moloney and W.
Sauriu Lyster were right opposite, and Fitzgibbon, the
Fitz. of Tom Carrington’s cartoons, was but half-a-dozen
chairs away, and two or three other men, who had read
all the magazines and remembered strangely well, near
about. v .
The doctor talked most, I think, and the subject was
the book and the lady I have mentioned. Clarke listened
persistently. He was making up. his mind. Later
on, as if to change the subject, he said, “ I have been
looking up some nice novels and verses, Fanny and Mor-
timer Collins.” Later still, I knew to what end he had
looked them up.
That dinner beneath the palms and the ferns, with the
gorgeous service on the table, seemed a triumph. And
indeed it was no mean feast, for Butters knew the art of
dining fairly well. There was turtle, venison, and
every sort of Australian game. There were' mangoes
nursed all the way from the tree to the table, there was
pineapple marvellously served in great silver bowls,
there were figs which, like the cherries of Arnold’s
“Sick King in Bokhara,” had been steeped in drifts
of snow. There were ice cones along the 5 table
mantled in flowers. There was delicious coolness and
fragrance in the air, with well ordered luxury and
beauty all around. And he took it all as a natural part
of life, as one of the proprietors, so to speak. I had been
“ a-droving ” from the Warrego right down to Gippsland
and was in Melbourne for a week or two. And—“ if you
want to prove that life is not worth living, persist.”
Lyster cut the dinner short. “I’ve got the Governor
to-night,” said he : “ must go.”
Clarke said we would go too. And so we turned
the Town Hall corner and into Bourke-street and halted
for a moment with the crowd. Lyster was ahead. We saw
him -marshalling a half-dozen flunkeys with a great-
crimson carpet. As the outsiders clattered up they
rolled it to the kerb. Down then came Lyster to the
carriage door, .handing out my lady, and greeting
old Sir George Bowen be-ribboned and starred. (No-
body has done that thing quite in the same style
since Lyster’s day.) We followed them up the carpet
as of right, and my companion’s name was on many
lips in the mob below. The manager’s box was at our
disposal, and when the show began (it was only panto-
mime and not very fine), there was evidently a very
fascinating entente cordiale between that box and the
stage, all the approaches coming from thither. He
responded indifferently and cut suddenly across all my
unprofitable nmsings with “ Don’t you think Lyster a
singularly handsome man?”
I had 'not thought seriously about it. “He seems to
me the exact image of an old Assyrian king." I realised
it instantly then and have never forgotten it. You may
see the head of W. S. Lyster on many of the rock fragments
recovered from Babylon and Nineveh, and the artist
who would have painted Belshazzar in his pride might
have taken him tor a model.
“ I have to put in a little time at my office,” said
he about nine, “ will you wait here or come into the
vestibule?” The lonely box menaced irksomeness or
worse. We went out and encountered a lame man with
a rubicund visage and a wicked eye, whom Clarke called
Thersites, and othergnen “ Jos,” and that lame man said
many things pleasant to hear and very fit for vivd voce
publication. But he became cross when a tall and thin
old man climbed the stair and fastened on to us garrulous.
“ Who is it?”
“ Old Dick Birnie, essayist of The Australasian."
Great God, I had thought of a Browning’s bishop, a
Blougram, sitting in that chair. He was the first dis-
cordant or convincing note. “If you want to prove that
life is not worth living, persist.” That essayist had
always been associated in my mind with epicurean sur-
roundings, Erasmus-like erudition, and all the splendour
of unclouded intellect. I will not seek to pourtray him ;
he has gone to his rest long since.
He smote one flash out of “ Jos,” who tried from the
outset to talk down his tedious pedantic mumbling—
“Jos! Jos! You have caecethes loquendi.” “I have not!
I’ve got fever and measles and cancer, and leprosy, and
paralysis ; and other things if you like. But I have n’t got
that.”
“ There is time for another look in at the club,” said
Clarke, returning. And then to the palms and the ferns
and the splendour we returned, the lame man accom-
panying. But the way this time was upstai-rs to a room
tolerably bare save.of what seemed most desirable human
furnishings. The smoke was heavy, the liquor earnest,
the beards wagged and the broad, smooth faces shone.
Suddenly up rose Butters in the midst of all and shouted
“Ronald Macdonald.” Why did not all that broadcloth
and fine linen fall away from him, and kilts, tartan,
sporran, and blackcock’s feathers materialise in their
stead? Never was there such a Rob Roy Macgregor.
To the call we formed in a ring and “ Hey for
Ronald Macdonald ! ” was sung with much zest and glory.
That was an acknowledged good night at that club.
There were others later ; but we went quietly down to the
old Port Philip Club, and after ten minutes such talk aa
was there in Spooner's time, he took the last train to
Brighton. I returned to town repeating once again, “ If
you want to prove that life is not worth living, persist 1"
What?
Later in the week Clarke said, “ Would you like a day
or two at Lyster’s place in the bush ? ” Thus came it
that we arrived at that pleasant home Lyster had
made for himself a couple of miles east of Fern Tree
OulW- There in occasional Inurs, when our host had told
his yarn of life, that is very fit to put into a book ; and
when the Sweet Singer had gone down to the mulberries,
or to look for imaginary trout in the creek, Clark®
would talk at large and lament, querulous and unreason-
able as it seemed, disclosing another sort of being not
much to be envied. We were right on the edge of the
Big Bush. A half-hour’s walk would take one into the
true Amygdalina forest, one of the wonders of the
world. I do not think Clarke on any occasion took that
walk willingly. I know he had not the faintest per-
ception of the character, the sentiment, the glory of
the forest. I often contrast him in memory with
John Ford Patterson, artist, who also lived a good deal
about the Big Bush, and who used to say with bated
breath almost : “ It is well for ye if ye can catch a
little bit of the idea of the like of that."
Clarke said, “ If you get right on top of the range, and
it is a beastly walk, you will see the Yarra Plats on the
other side. Castella’s place is just out of the view. I
must introduce you to Bleasdale. He will take you out to
Castella’s. They make rare wine and give you a jolly
good dinner as well.” Similarly when talk turned to
outside country (surely he who wrote the introduction to
Gordon’s poems must understand outside) the sense of
draw ing a blank was painful. He hated the Bush and all
its discomforts too thoroughly to understand a bit of it.
The Wimmera was “ nice country enough, Mount Zero;
and the rest! ” But what of that rampart-like front of
the Grampians, with its wing of low hills skirting Aus-
tralia Felix and reaching right round to the coast of
Mount Aurepiles, lone and strange out there on the
misty plain ? Of Wimmera and Yarrambiak, meandering
away inland, repeating, in miniature, all the mysterious
inland river system of the Continent? Of the glassy
sheets of water, and the innumerable wild fowl rising
with thunderous beat of wings in the night hours ? Of
the strange, mysterious swamps, reed covered, bittera-
and curlew-haunted, about the mountain’s feet? Of
the gigantic oaks and gums on the sand ridges,
finest in all Australia, I think, in those days?
Of the webs of their foliage against the
evening and the morning sky ? He had never seen them.
He did not know them. He had not got beyond “ Mount
Zero and the rest; very nice; yes.” He would rather
have one smell of the fleshpots than the heritage of deso-
lation whole and undivided.
J*
I write this without any intent of depreciation
and in full knowledge of what certain very distinguished
people have said on the other side. “ He acquired know-
ledge,” say Messrs. Sutherland and Turner, in that fool
book of theirs, The Development of Australian Litera-
ture, “ that impressed the seal of truthfulness on his
description of the Australian bush to an extent unequalled
by any other author who has essayed the theme.” And
this, in 1892, when some others who did know had
essayed.
Clarke would not talk of his own work. I do not think
he had pleasure in writing one single line unless that line
was a lash and the object of his aversion well within reach.
He did a good deal of that sort of thing, and out of a
whole heart in his later days. Of books he talked
curiously. The larger lights of the world, even as the
wider horizon of Australia, seemed in some mysterious
way beyond his ken. He would talk Theodore Hook,
Leigh Hunt, Praed, Clough, Pater, Hamerton; but
Browning was “ a weariness to body and soul,” and, if one
spoke of Spenser as a gold mine, he retorted, “Dig him,
then, if you will; I myself prefer the minted coin.’
A very little intercourse served to clinch the conviction
that he held everything save the joy of life in utter
contempt. If a true pathos seized and compelled him at
times as in “ Holiday Peak ” and “ Pretty Dick,” he held
it as a hateful obsession. Of his great book he said, “ It
is a chamber of real horrors indifferently assorted, and
confound it! it does n’t draw.”
I was equally delighted and disillusioned on that trip.
Never was there a merrier, kinder, less exigent com-
panion. Take him as such, as those who knew and loved
him best did, and all was very well. But regard him
as the bulk whence samples had been given to the
world in all his fragmentary work, and the disappoint-
ment was keen. He regarded, or affected to regard,
those fragments as shed scales of a foul disease. As
is very well known, he took this view seriously in his
writings. Whether there was any hidden regard for
them I had no opportunity of discovering. It seems im-
possible that such fairy children as “ Holiday Peak ” and
“Pretty Dick” should not have a permanent abiding-
place in some close-walled chamber of their creator’s
mind.
Getting back to town unless at the close of a roystering
day is usually a serious affair, and I have always tried to
shunt the memories of that morning drive. When Lyster
spoke of London and the prospects of migrating thither,
Clarke answered, “ Ask the Lord and his prophets ! ”
When the Sweet Singer trilled a bit in response to a
magpie who sang divinely on a dead bough by the Big
Hill, he said, “That bird is typical of everything Aus-
tralian. There is something in him, but it can’t get out.”
je
From the outermost Mallee country of Victoria
and out in wider lands between Lachlan and Darling
rivers, I waited for Marcus Clarke through five years.
Not with much hope of any great things. He would
never write a novel: that was abundantly plain. So far as
Australia was concerned, he had no power of inter-
pretation in him. But he had the key of fairy
land, and also that ' knack of Saturday Review
reviewing which shakes up city peoples. But little
came. One letter I remember. It told the only bit of
wholesome truth at the time when “all that
is respectable” in Melbourne was raging furiously about
“ Black Wednesday,” so called. It occurred to Clarke to
ask the ragers why they had not protested on the occa-
sion of other wholesale retrenchments ? If the sufferings
of the “ curled darlings,” who should have substantial
savings, and assuredly had many friends, were so poig-
nantly felt, “ what of the fettlers, railway porters, junior
clerks or labourers sacked by the hundred often enough?
And often enough, too, with the store account closed,
the bailiff shadowing the landlord, half-a-dozen children
on the floor, and a wife most unsesthetically near her con-
finement V”
His knife was into the old Conservative party through
all his later days. They were of no use to him and had
not much use for him, when troubles gathered, as they
did. Even the old Yorick Club in those days took
Judaism to its inner chambers and affected respectability,
and the “Cave of Adullam" was, after all, not even the
refuge Clarke would have chosen. Even the Maison
Doree was not always open, and the effects of frequent
chills became cumulative bitterness. But he never
graded down, never surrendered to dram or drug
or the sordid carelessness which has clothed the de-
clining years of so many of • our best and brightest
like flthy rags. Fresh, well-groomed, even debonair
to the "world to the last. A sad end it was to
a mad life prematurely closed. But not so
bad as to deserve the Sutherland-Turner epitaph;
“ Had Marcus Clarke possessed in a moderate degree
a sense of-the importance of prudential considera-
tions, his life would have been a happier one for himself
and for those he left.” Oh, commonest of commonplace!
and all in ignorance of the plain and glaring truth that
“a man can’t be two sorts of man.” What comes of the
attempt is very well instanced when a Henry Gyles Turner
essays to deal with a Marcus Clarke, or an Alexander
Sutherland with Henry Kendall.
Z.M.
THE RED PAGE.
The picture gives you Olaf Gulbransson s idea
of Eleonora Duse in the part of Hedda Gabler, in Ibsen s
play. Gulbransson’s work appears often in Simplxcxssv-
mut, from which this drawing is taken. Note the famous
“ beautiful hands ” of the actress, and their significance
of gesture.
The best humour comes unconsciously. It was
not “ Steele Rudd," but the prize essayist of the Austral
Association, Toowoomba (Q.) —writing on ‘ The Re-
sources of the Darling Downs ” arid commended for
“ literary merit"—who penned this sentence recently :
Ostrich Farming.— Give practical lessons to our
farmers. They are easily reared and managed ; a Sft.
fence will keep them securely. Their feed — lucerne,
corn, melons—all grow on the farm. The feather
return from a single bird is an eye-openar !
And it was not “Hop,” but Julian Ashton, who drew
the funniest illustrations one has seen for a long time.
Thev come In a booklet about Free Trade and Tariff
Reform, printed in England and published in Sydney ;
and they come in colours. You see'Edmund Barton
wooing, betrothing, ami betraying Australia in a way in
which no Barton was ever drawn before. Then Australia
dismisses him—and nobody interested in local art should
miss “ The Dismissal.” The original should be hung in
the “ Australian Court” of N.S.W. Art Gallery. There
is nothing more marvellous even there.
“ Mariquita ” and “ P.L.” answer that “ Audie-
mur’s” quotation is from Goethe—
Was du ererbt von deinem Vdtem hast
Erwirb es—vm es urirklich zu besitzen.
The text of both correspondents has been collated for
the foregoing: neither can supply a textual reference.
The origin accounts for the simplicity of the
idea—Teutonic simplicity is often simpletonish. The
thin partition between genius and madness is familiar:
that between wisdom and folly is as thin. Say that
Goethe was a thor who flung thunderbolts.


m
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDWE ~ST.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Are by far the most successful Salesmen
OF
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Rabbit and Opossum
m
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation. SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTM ENT c
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES*
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
INI EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book:
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
«<
ij
CURED
Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
MEN’S TREBLE-SEWN LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, s£oz.-Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS—
-ss, 5s 6d, 6a 3d, 7s 6d
WISDEN’S LEATHER BALLS-
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS—
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS.- sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ \No. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
BATSJ 6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d, ls6d, 2s, 2s 6d
BOYS’ BATS,
Cane —
No. 3 4 5 6
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \
All Cane — J '
P 9 S 2I ‘P9 S II ‘P9 SOT ‘P9 s 6
P 9 s 8 ‘P9 S Z ‘P9 s 9 ‘P9 SQ
MEN’S OANE'k
and RUBBER f
BATS- J
14s 6d, 15s, 15s 6d, 16s 6d
17s 6d, 18s 6d, 20s, 25s
Send for Catalogue, Post Free—full
list of Bats, by all Best Makers^
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEG- GUARDS-
Boys’, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS-
Boys’, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
15s set.
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s 6d, 88s 6d, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
9
a
Standard
7s 3d
Handicap
Derby
3s 6d
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure in
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 265, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players-
30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, &o.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation
Covered Regulation ...
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg
SLAZENGER’S Covered.
AYRES’ Grey Reg.
AYRES’ Covered ...
AYRES’ Champion...
4s 6d doz.
98 6d ~
10s ~
16s „
8s 6d ~
12s 6d, 15s
... 16s
TAYLORS
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality. No. 3 Bias-
Ivory Mounted 16s 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 20s, 24s
TAYLOR’S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped by the
N.S. W. Boioling Association.
Remittance, including' payment for
freight, must accompany each order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
m
SEE THESE GREAT RESULTS!
FROM ALL FARTS OF AUSTRALASIA.
relief afforded has been Genuine and Widespread. We can substantiate our statements and give positive proof of the
I relief afforded to those who have worn our Belts. Electricity is the Life of every man or woman, and some of the lead-
ing physicians of the old world acknowledge that Electricity will be the SOLE medicine of the FUTURE. M. db
ARSON VAL, a well-known savant, recently made that announcement before the Members of the great Physchological
Institute of Paris. He pointed out that Electricity will cure most ailments without the use of Drugs, and for all Functional
or Nervous Disorders and Cellular Vitality its effect is wonderful. He added that Electricity will bring about a therapeutic
revolution. Dr. McLaughlin has known this for 20 years, and has studied the best means of imparting a mild, soothing
current of Electricity into the body, with the result that we now have the most perfect appliance on earth—the only Genuine
Electric Appliance in existence.
Or. McLaughlin’s
The appliance that will cure you of your
Weakness, Loss of Energy or Ambition,
Nervousness, Insomnia, Dyspepsia, Flatu*
lency, Constipation, Liver Troubles & Decline.
SEE THIS GENUINE PROOF.
Mr. J. W. CARNEY, of COOLABAH, N.S.W., writes :
“ I suffered a great deal with rheumatic pains In
the feet, hands, and especially about the body;
In fact I could not turn in the bed, and I used to
use a stick to hobble about with. I tried your Belt
and, thank Cod, it has done me great good, and I
would not care to be without one, as it is better
than ail kinds of medicine.”
Mr. GEORGE CARTER, of EUOHAREENA, N.S.W.,
writes: “lam 62 years of age; I have led an
active life; I have lived here in the bush about 30
years, boundary-riding. Five years ago I fell off
a horse In an epileptic fit. I was found In the bush
next day insensible with my clothes half off. The
night was frosty so I caught cold, the results of
whioh left me very bad In my back and legs for a
long time and was also terribly nervous. I was
Induced to buy your Belt, and it has restored me
to health and strength. Medioine has never done
me any good. I have taken a lot of It, and the
Belt Is the only thing that wou Id bring about these
results In my ease.”
W
til te:
mi
. 01 &
,
Have You
Read Our Great Work
On the advantage* of Electricity
as a Curative Agent? If not,
We will Send you one Free
post paid, and closely sealed, to any address
on receipt of a post-card or letter.
. It explains all about the ailments that Eleotrlcity J
' w ;il cure without Drugs, and also gives -
Engravings showing how the Belt and >
w Attachments are applied for
various Ailments.
ELECTRIC BELT
The Belt that will drive away the pains of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Weak Back
or Kidneys, Headaches, Indigestion, Stiff or
Swollen Joints, Varicocele, and Pains & Aches.
READ THESE GREAT CURES.
Mr. E. WICKHAM, Junr., ROOTY HILL, N.S.W.,
says: “ For 18 months I suffered badly from rheu-
matism, and three months ago I bought one of
your Belts, and I am pleased to say I am perfectly
cured.”
Mr. HENRY WARREN, 2 LITTLE CORE STREET,
FITZROY, VIC., states: “ I am glad to say my
health is grand; I have had the Belt three
months, and it has done me a lot of good, more
than ever the doctor did for me. I oan now eat
like a horse. I have gained a stone In weight,
and my ieg is now alright.”
Mr. A. J. MCDERMOTT, of HICHTON, GEELONG,
VIC., writes: “1 have muoh pleasure In stating
that your Belt has cured me of my complaint. I
have not felt the slightest pains since, and I feel
quite a new man.”
Mr. G. DAY, of FLINDERS, VIO., states: “I have
Improved wonderfully. I am stronger in every
way, the pain in my head is gone, the circulation
of my blood Is free and my feet keep warm. My
nervous system is in better tone, and that con-
stant feeling of fatigue has left me.
DO NOT BUY AN ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE ABSOLUTELY DECIDED TO TAKE NO MORE DRUGS.
Mr. JOHN COOLIE, THURLGA, via PORT AUGUSTA,
8.A., writes : “I am satisfied that the Belt is
genuine, and all that you represent it to foe. The
biliousness and constipation I suffered with for
ysars has disappeared. My baokache and Sciatica
Is much better and I do not tire so easily as I did
before wearing the Belt.”
Mr. A. G. CAMPBELL, 25 LITTLE VALLEY, BRISBANE, OLD., writes: “Dear Sirs,
SL? ur Jl' eh ‘ Gr ? t,e B ® !t for thirty «<ays according; to directions, and the result
The Rheumatic pains which I have suffered for the last fifteen years have
sleep well at night and get up in the morning as fresh as a daisy, i have no
recommending it to my friends.” 1
i—l have worn
is wonderful,
all left me. I
i hesitation in
THE DR. MCLAUGHLIN GO.
100 W. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE OFFICE -167 E. SWANSTON STREET.
N.Z. OFFICE-54 WILLIS STREET, WELLINGTON.


PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 1881.
First Manufacturers of Rubber Goods in Australia.
Rubber Sheet, Rubber Valves, Rubber Buffers.
Armoured and Plain.
For Garden*. For Steam.
Any Sizes
or Thickness.
A Full Assortment of
all Best Makes.
Best Quality.
Any Size.
h'OSE.
TUBING.
ENGINE PACKING.
RUBBER BELTING.
TITAN JOINTING.
Will make a tight and lasting joint on any surface and under
any steam pressure.
For High-pressure delivery.
For Suction.
Of best Quality Rubber.
Will stand any Climate
To hold
400 lbs. steam.
Won’t Slip.
Up to 36 in. wida.
For High
Pressure Steam.
Will stand any degree
of steam heat.
DUGONG JOINTING.
The best Jointing ever
made for Ammo.iia.
Rubber and Oil Waterproof Clothing.
r.ubb»r Coat*, Boots, Goloshes, Leggings, Oilskin Coats, Jacket*. Pants- in fiat.
everything to keep out the wet. ’ *
Enema*.
SURGICAL
Fountain Syringes.
Hot Water Bags.
Operating Cushions.
Ice Cap*. Atomizers.
Air and Water Cushion* and Bed*.
RUBBER
Rubber Gloves.
GOODS
Elastic Web QooiN.
Bandages, Stocki. ga
Urinals.
It* & CJ O. 270 Georg* St, Sydney.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free on Application.
d r i n r i ■■■ i ■■■—nr
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) &at Helidon.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
V
By FRANK RENAR.
V
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
RUPTURE
CAN BE CURED
Without
Operation,
Pain, Danger, Inconvenience, or Loss of Time. A genuine success. IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
The acme of comfort and a feeling of perfect confidence is secured from the first hour of using
Dr. Langston’s combined treatment. Write to-day for Treatise No. 12 —posted 2 stamps—and
read the CONVINCING TESTIMONY received from all parts of Australia, from hundreds
of men who HAVE BEEN CURED. Used and endorsed by Clergymen, Statesmen, Lawyers,
Physicians, Farmers, Artisans, Navvies, Miners ; in fact, men and women in every station of
life. These living witnesses support facts that leave no room for doubt.
VARICOCELE
CURED—No Gutting or Pain.
The stagnant blood is driven from the dilated veins, and all soreness and swelling subsides.
Men suffering from Weakened Nerve Force, Constant Depression, Gloomy Forebodings, Fast
Becoming Unfitted for Active Business Life, fail to attribute their deplorable state to the
PROPER CAUSE. They know they have VARICOCELE, as they have suffered some dis-
comfort on account of it, particularly while standing. But the evil effects due to
VARICOCELE are so gradual that they neglect it until the entire system is undermined, and
they are forced to realise that something must be done to prevent them from breaking down
completely. To such sufferers I say, Don’t fall into the hands of Quacks—don’t submit
to the knife—don’t pay enormous sums to so-called specialists for medicines, electric belts, etc.
My perfect, simple device will CURE YOU EASILY, Permanently, and Quickly, without
inconvenience or loss of time. Send for Treatise No. 15—posted 2 stamps.
Surgeon LANCSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.
129 Collins St., Melbourne ; and at 177 Liverpool St., Sydney.
m
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
m
Isiawß
SI si
Flavelle, Roberts & Sankey. Ltd.,
BRISBANE,
are now manufacturing all classes of
THERMOMETERS & HYDROMETERS.
Any SPECIAL THERHOriETER made to order.
Thermometers, Barometers, etc., repaired at
short notice.
; ,'.k> r* •* :
m
m
FREE! FREE!
Cut this out and send it to us, and we will send you free,
postage prepaid, in plain wrapper, a copy of the new edition
of our splendid, invaluable and standard illustrated Medical
Work, which acknowledged medical treatise should be read by
every adult.
The Twentieth Century Belt.
Our improved Belt is the most modern and perfect in the
world. It is stronger than any other, and is a certain cure for
all cases of Nervous Disorders, Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheu-
matism, Liver, Kidney and Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go
Pains, and that tired feeling. It will cure after all others fail.
Our Belt gives a soothing, warm, strengthening and delightful
current of electricity into the afflicted nerves and system while
you sleep. It never burns the body, because it is constructed
to give electricity in a proper way.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
Others claim this, but we are the only ones who will really send a valuable Belt abso-
lutely free on trial for three months. If you are cured we know you will willingly pay; if
you are not cured, you will not have to pay one penny. Write at onoe.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. (Dept. M.)
49 ELIZABETH STREET, fIELBOURNE, VIC.
m
SOLD
BY
m
H
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BUBRAOIM
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Da. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d posted. Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners, illustrated. Is posted. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. How to Dance, Is ; post, Is 3d. How
to Wrestle, Is ; post, Is 2d. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, Is 3d posted. Tailoring for
Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s
each posted. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, 6d each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is;-post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Howto
Make Love, Is 6d. Fowler’s Science of Life, 10s 6d.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Nat Gould’s
Sporting Novels, 2s edition for Is 9d, post paid any
of them. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Yamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Horse and Cattle Doctor,
Is. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Letter
Writer Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle: Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Cabinet Making for. Amateurs,
illustrated, 3s 6d post. Resurrection, Bd. posted.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. I*T" Established 20 Years.
No Matter what Book you
warat I’ve grot it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
»
Write for my
BIG*
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handuook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made East, Is. Practical Palmistry. Is.
Dove and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Dover’s Better Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is. 3d. post. Datest Song Books, 3d., 6d.,
and is. Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Ro-
mances, 2s. Ingersoll’s Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Dove, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 6d. posted. Ciikvasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs. Is. 31. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of Don don Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, vs. Cd. The Wife’s Handuook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is.. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Darge Unabridged Dictionary, 170 »pages,
1000,illtis., leather hound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth hound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, b.v Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
m i
'U'VERY Weak, Nervous, and Enfeebled Man or
|J Woman will find ELECTRICITY as supplied by our
Perfected and Patented ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELT
a wonderful restorative to robust health and vigor.
TEST IT FREE OF CHARGE. Our Electric Belt has
no obsolete and cumbersome chain to be saturated with
Vinegar or Sulphuric Acid to torture the skin.
We desire that every sufferer should wear this mar-
vellous Belt and test its healing virtues for thirty days,
as we are certain that it will cure, and that the wearer,
after the month’s trial, will then prefer to keep rather
than return the Belt. Do not miss this opportunity to
resrain your Health, for Health means Wealth, Health
and Strength means Happiness in Mind and Body.
Enjoy a full measure of life by being strong and robust
to a vigorous old age.
Remember, we give a WRITTEN GUARANTEE with
each Electric Belt that it will permanently cure you. If
it does not we will promptly return the full amount paid.
Send for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free),
explaining our different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also TESTIMONY, which will convince the most sceptical
Address: Electric Appliance Company
DEPT, H,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HERE’S A BARGAIN.
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch /
Post Free. sjl ™
Black, White, Cream,
or Black tipped with White
Worth Twice the Money
Write To day. Send Postal Note
m
m
w
mj
m
m
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne
Mention Tiie Bulletin.
THE BULLETIN STOUT BOOK:
Price, 4s. 6d.


A
m
U
m
If you aro young,
you naturally ap-
Ipear so.
> If you aro old,
why appear so ?
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
will surely restore
color to your gray
hair, and will give
to it all the
wealth and
gloss of ear-
ly life. It
will stop
falling of
the hair
also; and
will keep
the scalp clean and healthy, entirely
free from dandruff.
And it makes the hair grow thick
and long. This is because it is a hair-
food, giving to the hair just what it
needs to make it grow as nature in-
tended.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
There’s a pleasure in offering to you
such a preparation ; while you will cer-
tainly feel a sense of security in using
something that others have used for
half a century.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Wore a Torture
BELT.
SUFFERED TERRIBLE AGONY.
From wearing an Electric Belt
charged by the use of
SULPHURIC Tie in.
Mr. W. Folley, Alfred Woollen Mills,
Williamstown, Vic., writing to the Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt Co., tells how he
was scarred and burned by the use of a
Free Belt, which he had erroneously
been led to believe was as good as theirs.
He paid £4 for the Free Belt because
he had been convinced that by paying
this cash price he was obtaining a similar
appliance to Dr. McLaughlin’s Famous
rejuvenator which has gained World
Wide fame as a Curative Agent. It goes
to show how misleading are advertise-
ments which seem to offer something for
nothing.
Gentlemen—ln answer to your kind in-
quiries after my health, I beg to state that
I have been completely cured of the Scia-
tica that has troubled me for years. I
cannot thank you enough for your gentle-
manly treatment and fair dealing with your
patients, as I know from others that their
treatment has been the same as mine.
I may just as well let you know my ex-
perience in seeking a cure for my trouble
before I purchased one of your High Grade
Belts. I had been under doctors and re-
ceived scant relief; and also tried various
quacks, but it was all the same. I then
placed myself in the hands of a Specialist
(in Melbourne) guaranteed to cure Rheu-
matism and Sciatica, but received very
small benefit from the treatment. I then
had my attention drawn to Electricity.
Well, I thought, “ Never venture, never
win,” so I PROCURED first of all a Belt
for £1 and was very much disappointed
because I was informed that it was neces-
sary to take a long and exceedingly ex-
pensive course of drug treatment. I would
not do this and then I wrote for, and ob-
tained a so-called Free Belt, with a
most “ Wonderful Pedigree,” at a cost of
£4. I wore the Belt according to the in-
structions given faithfully for a period of
five weeks, and by that time I was Burnt
and Blistered so badly that I could not
wear it longer, and still no relief was
gained, although the Belt was guaranteed
to Cure Anything in Sciatica in One
Month. You bet I was very much dis-
couraged in regard to Electric Belts.
However, I was persuaded to come and
just see you, gentlemen. I then found
that I had been wearing a Torture Belt
and very Wrongly Applied, and quite
enough to give and patient a Horror of
so-called Electric Belts. After the con-
sultation I decided to place myself in your
hands. I knew my case was very diffi-
cult, as I was compelled to follow my em-
ployment, and standing at the vice was
irksome, and the complaint was a vei y
stubborn one. However, gentlemen, your
Belt, coupled with your advice, has made
me a grateful patient. I thank you kindly
for supplying me with a remedy which has
Completely Cured Me, and strongly recom-
mend it to all and sundry that I find are
suffering from the distressing malady-
called “ Sciatica.”
I have not been wearing the Belt for the
past fortnight, but have passed it over to
my wife, who has received great benefit
for nervous troubles.
I remain, your grateful patient,
W.FOLLEY
iENUINE BELTS give GENUINE RELIEF.
Send to THE DR. McLAUGHUN CO.,
1 JU, Market-st., Sydney ; 167JSwanston-st., Melbourne
*4 Willis-st., Wellington, N.Z.
TTh® CWdrlmglnfedtair
BONNINGTON’S
Bonningtons
CARRAGEEN
OR
IRISH MOSS
George bonningtosi
CHRISTCHURCH
CARRAGEEN
!RISH°VIOSS
is mt/alualle medicine 7ids ,
the extraordinary property op
immediately relieving the chest
op the congealed phlegm.conse-
quently causing apree expector-
ation without straining, up pro-
moting healthy respira. tion,pree ing
the air tubes, andgzvnyg strength, i
to the muscular organs.
m
Double Seated
Turnout Seat
Buggy - £lB 10s.
With Brake and
Lamps.
Sulkies - £8 10s.
Send tor a
Catalogue.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex St., Sydney.
•X HMOUFft
Board BttggleS
Reliable and
Strong-, £9 10s,
Large Stocks of
all light vehicles,
Buggies, Sulkies,
Phaetons. Send
for a Catalogue .
H. HILLfER,
130 Sussex-street
Sydney, n.s.w.
/
SMITH
✓
•m.
21/-
21/-
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wales.
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order ; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value—best in Austral-
asia.
Yours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading Jeweller.
‘HJ.iI/VIS 'd H
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
m m
22 Caliber Cartridges
If you want to use .22 Caliber Rim Fire Cartridges that shoot
strongly and accurately, buy the time-tried Winchester make,
having the trade-mark “H ” on the head. They cost but a
few pence more a box than the cheap, unreliable kind, and
they are shillings better. 'Winchester .22 Caliber Cartridges
are furnished loaded with either black or smokeless powder, the
latter being loaded with the celebrated Winchester Grease-
less Bullets, which make them very clean to handle.
FOR SALE BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
Before purchasing WINCHESTER GOODS
Send for our Rifle Catalogue. Post Free.
PERRY BROS.
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
CITIZENS’
LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C. P. and C.L.) or Government Stock of
any of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Inteled.
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any finer
HARRISON, JONES # DEVLIN/™
Wool Brokers,
Fat Stock Salesmen,
Stock (P Station Agents.
Our Charge for selling
Wool of the New Clip
is reduced to
Cent.
Being a Consolidated Charge
includes Commission, Insurance
while in Store, Weighing, Cata-
loguing, &c., <fec.
Auction Sales held on all advertised dates of Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, and all Station Produce.
Stores and Office ;j : Circular Quay, Sydney.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Discordancy.
There on the blackened, wet rocks it lies,
The tall cliffs beetling above it bold ;
Too tall the cliffs, too vast the sea
For a poor little body so worn and cold !
O, the heart full of pride she had
To choose the sea for her place of rest!
The sea that mirrors the stars of God
And hides the moon in its mighty breast.
Knew she no pool in a quiet nook
Where she might enter and cease to be ?
When a wayside pond would have served her end
What did she want with God’s great sea?
The pond would have rippled about her head
And locked her close as a lover locks
His best beloved; but see how the sea
Has cast her there on the wet, black rocks!
O, the pathos of little lives
That dream and dream and awake at last
To find how petty—how poor they are;
The world about them how cold and vast!
O, the folly of all their deeds,
Their nights of darkness and noons of grace,
The dreams they dream, and the deaths they die—
So strange, unlovely, and out of place !
N.s.w,
RODERIO QUINN.
Another Spring Song.
Spring shakes her curls,
Her eyes laugh glee,’*
Peeping through glades
At you and me.
Spring loves a Lover—
That was you.
Last Spring—she saw us.
Guess she knew.
Spring winks one eye.
Does she remember
That swift, sweet mo;.th
Of last September ?
Ah, Lady Spring,
Who looks askance,
And views grave brows
With troubled glance !
Gold-crowned and sweet
With dainty ear
Bent low, where streams
Run glad and clear ;
Where birds sing loud,
From bursting throat.
Sprtng cannot bear
To lose one note.
And so she weeps
And frets—at you.
The change she notes
From rose to rue.
She does not know,
Sweet Spring, blue-eyed ;
That we were wed
The month she died.
VIC.
HELEN JEROME.
Eve.
Eve of my heart, what pages
Of Love you wrote for me
In the old Eden ages
By the Forbidden Tree !
The snow-white blooms were o’er us,
Life’s river laved our feet,
And through the calms a chorus
Of birds rose, angel-sweet.
O’er wide fields, golden-crowned, there
The low, soft winds did run ;
The grapes of God were drowned theie
In wine-vats of the sun.
There, where the sunlight glistened
Upon your tawny hair,
Who cared what serpent listened
In his unhallowed lair?—
When regal hours, attended
With all untold delights,
Passed in procession splendid
Of Everlasting lights.
Till one wild angel found us,
With a red, angry sword,
And called the Furies round us—
The vampires of the Lord.
And now the light that swims on
The river foams in blood,
And all the sunset’s crimson
Broods sullen o’er the flood.
Without the walls the thunder
Of jealous gods that grieve
Taught us ; and yet what wonder
They mourn thy wisdom, Eve?
M.L.
D. M. R.
Dreams.
You are dreaming the dream of your life to-night,
With a glad content in each happy sigh,
A vision of love in a future bright,
Of unborn days, uncoined delight,
And I am dreaming of days gone by—
Of another time and another place—
A place where the world looked bright and new,
Of a girl I can see in your own sweet face,
Though her eyes were brown and yours are blue.
Ah, sad is the bud that outlives its fellow—
A blighted flower on a blighted tree—
Love comes not again in the autumn mellow,
When the leaf is faded, and sere, and yellow;
Your kisses can wake no warmth in me,
For we love but once in this world of ours—
One pure, true love, and ne er again,
And long ago. in the golden hours,
I loved my love, and loved in vain.
Vic.
J. McCLELLAND.


A NOVEL PRESENT.
rvN receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 6/- we will forward to
anv address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire Kins, Cole’S
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vlo.
m
•* ACTS UKB A CHARM.”
JONES’
Kheumattcnro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CURB
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
28. 9d. PER HOTTUB
SOLE PROPRIETORS —
THE RHEUM ATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
I and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
EVERY WOMAN
m
ia interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Stray
The new FEMALE BYlttHull
Injection and Suction. The beitj
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. ® Kndorsed by Physicians.
Time* Building, N.T.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL 00. OF AUBTRALIA,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, Q.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
m
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ASTHMACURE
I GRIAWTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of lightness across the chest.
<mxnXAtrz,T & Co., Parle. Sold by sll Chenrsts.
use “ANTHOS
if
AND PREVENT
BALDNESS
Discoverer- Christopher Mudd, f.I.S, f.r.g.s., M.B.Ph.S., L. Lecturer to
Medical Students in Botany at Cambridge University.
A SAFE AND EFECTIVE HAIR DRESSING.
Oaod l»y toe aristocracy of Australia. It Cleanses and Refreshes the Scalp, Feeds the Hair, and
PREVENTS HAIR FROM FALLING OUT.
An iirimt UP (Melbourne University 1 writes :—“After observing closely the use of ‘ Anthos,' I
am convinced that it promotes the growth of the Hair.
Price, 2/6; ported, 3/3.
Hordern’s. Roy's, Pattinson’s, Lasseter’s, Grace Bros. Depots— Horvitz, Pitt Street, and
Elliott Bros. Ltd. Chief Depot-F. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Skm -ToM Baines
AND TIRED MOTHERS
Find Comfort in Cuticura
Instant Belief and refreshing sleep for Skin-tortured Babies and
, » TSrpfl Mothers in warm baths with Cuticura Soap,
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Ccticuka OmTHENT>r
the skin, for dousing V® t | n ° ng whitening, and soothing red, rough,
stopping of falling hmr,, forsoft. 3 and c f afingSj in the form of baths
and sore hands, for baby rash , £ » or o g- elia iy e perspira-
for annoying irritations and and for many sanative,
tion, in the form of washes f , tbemS elves to women, especially
antiseptic pmposes wMch readily bath , and nursery. No other
mothers, and for all the pup compared with it for preserving,
medicated soap ever compounded and hands. No other
purifying, and beautifying the ’ ex ’ sive ’ j a t o be compared with
foreign or domestic toilet soap, a £ d nurS ery. Thus it combines
in On^Soap^Wne 3 Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the
best toilet and best baby soap in the world.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless
odourless, economical substitute for the cele
Cobp*, Bole Props** Boston, U. S. A*
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o UEFY COMIFJBXXTXON.
WINES n ‘ Besl B Z uU °* ol SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral waters, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WILL ANDRADE’S .... - BOOKS
m
BOOK OF NATURE and IL-
LUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE
by I)r. Faulkner, illustrated
with over SO engraving’s,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-To-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is ;
post Is 3d. Howto Wrestle,
9J &Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 3d. House
Painting and Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d ;
post, Is 6d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is ; post Is 3d. Piano
Tuning and Repairing, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d ; post Is 6d.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, ]s 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; posted Is
2d. Australian Doctor, cures for all diseases,
Is 3d; post Is 6d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Self Instructor :
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, Is. French
Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s. Cabinet
Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
hy Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is 6d. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/3.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford's
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d ;
post, 2s lOd. Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made
Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is 6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court of
England, Is 3d, post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Komances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
ANii ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6 :
Books for the Married. No. 7 ; Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE —.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORST COUGHS'.
p| AIR’Q
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
PILLS.
The Great -Unfflish Remedy for
COUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in e
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These I’ills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at 1«. lid. and 2a. 9c•
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Stori
throughout the Australian Colonies.
J, LANDES,
108 Pitt St., Sydney.
The Largest and most reliable House in
Australasia for Automatic Machines and
Novelties of every description.
The biggest Money Making Machines for
Hotels, Refreshment Rooms, Tobacco-
nists, etc., always in stock, *nd each
machine guaranteed.
The following are some of our beet known Machines
In use :
The “ Challenge ” Punching Machine—ld. Slot
The Novelty Pool Table Machine (game skill)—3d. Slot-
pays value in goods. . _ ~ , . .
The “ Australia ” —6 Slots Spots and P. Machine 3d. Slot
—pays value in goods. ,
The Monte Carlo—s Slots Machine—3d. Slot—pays value
The Electric Pocket Lights, with extra recharge, reduced
from 21s. to 10s. 6d.
All Goods shipped freight paid.
m~Our Illustrated Catalogue free on application.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Oxerlne fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/*.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
‘25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
Deafness # Head Noises Cured
NO EAR-DRUMS. NO OPERATION.
A Colonist 50 years, deaf 43 years, CURED HIMSELF.
CONSULTATION FREE. Write or Call for Particulars.
MILLSOM AGENCY,
36 Carrington Street,
Wynyard Square, Sydney
NERVOUSNESS.
JiOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same* free oi
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease ana
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The hook is free for the asking, and you win
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energyi
strength and ambition once more. Posted free, ''rite
to Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
BEAT
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
(and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Arethesama
i to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
ME BALLET GIRL
m
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fros, is
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of »
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post FrtSi w.
stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novtltiu.
Madame Panza,
LARGEST SALE OP ANY DENTIFRICE.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder.
A unique and efficacious preparation for
cleansing the teeth and strengthening the gums.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.


General Debilitation.
A CASE IN PYRMONT.
A Permanent Recuperation.
The Case of Mr. W. H. ATKINS.
(BT OUR REPORTER.)
What an easy matter it is for a benevo-
lent being to diffuse pleasure and gladness
around him. In order to do so it is only
necessary to consider what means are pos-
sessed to lighten the burdens of our fellow-
men, and to help in whatever direction the
conscience may dictate. It is evident that
Mr. William Henry Atkins, of No. 211
Crown-road, Pyrmont, shares in this
opinion, for he said in reply to a question
put by our reporter :
"Of course, I will give you any informa-
tion you require, as the knowledge I gained
may be turned to good account by some
poor sufferer in need of good advice. It
has always been my motto to help those in
distress, and I think I can do so by letting
humanity know about the remarkable ex-
perience I had. I think that worry was at
the back of all my troubles, for after an in-
cident whicfckgrieved me greatly, I fell into
bad health J did not care about anything
to eat, simply because I had no appetite.
The most tasty morsels imaginable failed to
tempt me as a rule, although I had to force
myself to take some nourishment when I
fe.t, that I could not hold out any longer.
Not only was my appetite bad, but I ab-
stained from eating because of the pains
which afterwards appeared. My stomach
always got full of wind, which shifted about
from side to side, and left cramping pains
in all directions, and heavy pains affected
my chest. Sometimes I felt as if the
breath was being crushed out of me, the
oppr. ssion was so great, and I naturally felt
deeply concerned about it, as chest com-
plaints are so serious in their consequences.
As my food was not doing me any good I
lost strength rapidly, and soon I dropped
into that languid state of indifference to
everything which is so disastrous to every
business man’s career. I felt as if I did
not care how things went, and the morbid-
ness of my spirits quite precluded me from
thinking about anything pleasant. Haras-
sed as I was by depressing headaches, and
with my eyes dim and feeling as if they
were swollen, no wonder that I lost all in-
terest in life, for the average man does not
wish to ljtye unless he is contented and at
ease.”
"But your lot was not so hard to bear
when night came, for then, I suppose, you
obtained relief in sleep ? ” Remarked Mr.
Atkins’ interrogator.
"Don’t you believe it; if anything, my
nights were more intolerable than the days,
as I could not succeed in getting anything
like a night’s rest. Certainly, I used to
doze off from time to time, but the sleep
was not refreshing, because of the intrusion
of repulsive dreams, and when I got up I
felt as weary as if I had been awake all
night. I could hardly stand the bitter taste
which was in my mouth every morning, and
the unhealthy condition of my stomach
could be detected by the fur on my tongue;
but what I regretted more than all else was
the quick and painful throbbing of my heart.
When I laid down I felt that organ shaking
inside in a way that caused me much alarm,
so that, with every particle of strength
being gradually eaten away by my com-
plaints, there was nothing in my condition
to assist me in entertaining hopes of a re-
covery. The least exertion brought on a
feeling of faintness, and when I stood up I
used to get quite giddy, as if everything
was on the move. All this I put down to
my extreme weakness, which was also re-
sponsible for the annoying aches in my legs
and loins From some cause or other my
arms were also intensely painful, and if ever
a nervo«v system was wrecked it was mine.
On the least provocation I became excited
and irritable, while the trembling of my
nerves served to increase the general misery
of my existence. My body was greatly de-
nuded of flesh, and I can tell you in all
seriousness that my life was a burden which
I would Willingly have cast off at any
moment.”
“I believe you suffered in this way
several years,” interjected the scribe.
“ During the period of your illness did you
ever enlist the services of a medical man ? ”
“ Considering that I was lingering, wait-
ing, and hoping for years, I should rat her
think I did,” replied Mr. Atkins. “ Why,
I consulted dozens of doctors, yet my suffer-
ings grew worse, and I may also state that
I have taken scores of medicines which were
procured at stores and chemists’ shops. It
would have been far better if I had kept
the money in my pocket, for all but one of the
medicines were of no service to me. The
only remedy which suited my complaints
was Clements Tonic, and this was recom-
mended to me by a man living in Harris-
street, who had used it, and knew what it
could do. After taking two bottles of
Clements Tonic I felt much better, and was
able to get about with much more freedom.
I went to a chemist to get some more, but
he put me off by saying he could give me
something better, and pointed out the
difference in the size of the bottles, so,
foolishly enough, I bought his medicine in-
stead of Clements Tonic, and in a few days
I was as bad as ever. Then I insisted on
having Clements Tonic, and again I im-
proved under its influence, so that there was
no doubt about its being the best medicine
in the market. I would rather have one
dose of Clements Tonic than a barrelful of
any other medicine, for it proved its supe-
riority in every possible way. The first
thing it did was to make me eat and sleep,
and I was glad of the respite from my
afflictions which I had when resting. Be-
fore long a feeling of animation spread right
through my system, and I then shook off
the yoke of depression which had clouded
my past few years, as I felt assured that
Clements Tonic would pull me through. In
course of time the pains arising from indi-
gestion were quelled; the nauseous taste
left my mouth, and my head was free from
aches. Some of my doctors said my liver
was diseased, while others said my stomach
was extremely weak; but if they had seen
me after a few weeks’ use of Clements
Tonic they would not have known me. My
stomach could then digest and retain any
kind of food, and my liver symptoms were
non-existent. The shaking of my nerves
was promptly checked by Clements Tonic,
and the regulating and strengthening effects
of that medicine on my system generally
were really extraordinary. Every ache and
pain yielded to the pacifying influences of
Clements Tonic, and I am heartily thank-
ful to say that by its exclusive use my
health was re-established. I have lived in
this house for the past 17 years, and all the
neighbours know that Clements Tonic cured
me; but for the benefit of those who are
unaware of these facts you may publish
them in any form you like,”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, William Henry Atkins, of 211 Crown-road,
Pyrmont, in the State of New South Wales, Com-
monwealth of Austra.ia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of four
folios and consecutively numbered from one
to four, and that it contains and is a true and
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to-publish
in any way my statements—which I give volun-
tarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtus of the provisions of
the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and deolared at Sydney, this
twentieth day of February, one thousand nine hun-
dred and two, before me,
JNO. a HALLAM, J.P.
- ■
itea^s
-»
£E
'.v.'.l
m*w
- *k-v 1 J^F.«-
•g&y&i&'tii
? ' > -'-’:r-r-s '
O
PiflßYTHlito'
HU,
this paper
IfIpiOLLINS ST
M|£&?MELBOURNE.
iwssjj
No
r':
Darkroom
m
ycm Tf«e strazrwohkeit
am-Bu/c
mm
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barooo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Plies all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Btreet, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JJOTICBJ TO MHMjBOURN'IB visitors
WIM POLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne
Telephone No. IOJtS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
i/er/HiUet /lights
/si'niUiy Jii/’niits
TRY
&hv
OD
Refuse a//f/n/faf/ons
Satisfying. Strengthening Soothing for Infanfi
Agreeable. Digestible. Nourishing
AGFJVrS FOR SYD/VFY.
SAYFFS AUPORr * POTFFft
RIDGE'S FOOD MILLS LONDON. Esc
DEBILITATED
TTUEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
” trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will he more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
,CURED
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
•I*" See my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
■within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, M.R.c.s.. en*..
129 Collins.st., Melbourne.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS 'TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
SYD3STEY.
USB
SPOONER’S
».Ji)
« a:
mm
---
X
SPOONERS
? W *4
|' M> 7 ( | »*•*•«*• «•*
I ATTKT LEATHER BOOTS
- cLtfsa aids ft?
**, >-•• • • ' v4< ; Wf* ««**•«
L
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) Cd. and Is.
SLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepert,
Boot Shape, Saddlers, etc.
Maoniven & Cameron’s Pens
" They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.*
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defeotire are discarded.
m~ BEWARE OF IMITATIONB. ~«9
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
Cockroaches!
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFONS
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
FOR
Indigestion, Biliousness and
Acidity.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS IN
OLD AND YOUNO.
ril Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapiilarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEIM, N.S .W. Barber’B Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Too Stout
I was for years; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREK to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeepers
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use. —Throw i.he Carbide down the tube;
the Machine does the rest.
fo/tO¥*o
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained several
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply Cirbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in-Australasia, at prices lower than is
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co* of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NOTICE
Tosufferersfrotn Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains_ of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy •
; PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by PoiNonicsTKK Jit Truman, of
71 Old Kent Hoad, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizks, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
' N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


irnissn
lUIDT.
Insist
Upon
Having:
It.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
MEMORY.
PELMAN’S SYSTEM.
Is your Memory unreliable ?
The Memory can be Developed and Im-
proved by proper training just as the
muscles of the body are developed and
strengthened by proper exercises.
PELMAN’S
Systim of memory Traioing
is a practical system of proved value based
upon well-known psychological principles.
Increases Mental Capacity in every
case. Invaluable to Students.
Explanatory Book sent Post Free on application
to the Secretary.
( gelman’s (School of Memory graining,
MELBOURNE, G.P.O. Box 402.
London, 4 Blooinshuty-st., W.O. ; U.S.A., 1638 Masonic
Temple, Chicago ; South Africa, Lynn Buildings, Durban ;
Germany, Mozart-str 9, Munich ; France, 10J Avenue de
Neuilly, Paris. .
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding,
Allenbufgs Foods.
The “ Allenburys” Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers.
Farinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
'** TtUifnonl',
Hanbo
—wPm«te»
The “Allenburys” Foods are especially valuable In hot
climates. They are In the form of powder and keep perfectly.
IBKSF* Pamphlet on” INFANT FEEDING” (48 pages) free, from
V£<tr 495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALLEN 8> HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. !?.
From six months and upwards.
Experiments
means
■with other brands—
-taking chances.
Stick to
“CAMEOS
99
and ascertained qualify.
Ruberoid Roofing.
y **
? VI
MM!
immmriea
■ ' ■
i&mßm
The Smith-Premier Typewriting Company Building, Syracuse, New York.
Sydney Representatives: Messrs. Fisher & Lingham, Victoria Arcade.
THIS fine building was roofed with Rubercid
i ,
300 Rolls =being used. The entire roof
was completed in the short space of 5 days.
The average number of men employed on the
job being from 10 to 12.
AGENTS:
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Vic.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO.,
Adelaide, S.A.
J. M. FERGUSON, Limited,
Fremantle, W.A.
JAMES W. JACK,
Wellington, N.Z.
HEDLEY BUTTON,
Launceston, Tas.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0. 1241.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1903.
PBI03! 6d.
AUSTRALIA’S POLITICAL CHAMELEON.
“ It n ot only Changes its colo r to suit its groundings, but it possesses the amusing faculty of looking two ways at once,”-Natural History Note.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty -
Six Shillings sterling you can hare The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques , Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable ,
acknowledge in the 11 Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Ai tides, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing noth Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ive
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mate nr s in Made and M'Jiite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will he paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e. , any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetoivn;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, n Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon .—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., S 3 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1903.
Wanted-Just One Freetrader Who
Believes in His Own Belief.
That Federal Freetrade candidate, or leader, or
party, that is in favor of real Freetrade hasn’t yet
transpired, and any hope that he or it will
transpire may now, apparently, be abandoned
Seven days have elapsed since The Bulletin
last inquired for the Freetrader who believes
in his own belief, and during these seven
days many strange crimes and poems and
deadbeats have happened, but the Freetrade
candidate who is prepared to give Australia Free-
trade cometh not. In his complete absence Free-
trade arguments don’t require refutation, and the
importers’ lies should be treated with the cold
half-brick of contempt. When Bruce Smith
finds his faith too dirty for use, no one
need grieve much about all the bogus statis-
tics at the back of Bruce Smith’s creed.
There is no practical interest attached to
George Reid’s eloquent lectures on swimming if
‘George Reid sinks every time ; and there is no
joy in hearing Joe Cook hold forth brilliantly
about horsemanship when Joe Cook always walks.
No rational individual wants to hear Pump-
kin Smith and Edward Braddon preach fer-
vently about teetotalism if Smith has a bottle
sticking out of his pocket and Braddon has a
whole brewery. Not one of these men practised
Freetrade when he was in office, and not one of
them is prepared to undertake that he will prac-
tise it if he gets into office again—in fact, they all
promise that they won’t. When the alleged
devotee won’t even be found in the same paddock
with his own creed, what is there to be gained by
his holding forth in a paddock ten miles away
about the beauties and advantages of that creed ?
* • * *
The Bulletin is prepared to make the best
offer in its power to that real Freetrader, if he
will only transpire. First let the Freetrade
party, if there is one, find a leader whose word
can be relied upon— George Reid is barred, but
M ‘Millan or Bruce Smith or Edward Braddon
will be accepted despite the unspeakably bad
record of unmanly apostacy held by all three.
Then let that leader promise on his honor that if
he gets into power he will stand or fall by pure
Freetrade as it was until quite recently prac-
tised in England, the country which all these
public frauds and their press barrackers hold up
as the example to be followed-*-and The Bulletin
will support him cordially. It will subscribe
to his party’s funds. It will bring to
his aid, and to the aid of every reliable
Freetrade candidate who will swear the
same oath as he does, all the votes it can
command It will speak kindly and respectfully
of him as a sort of reformed criminal, and it will
be his friend—the only one he will have in the
Australian press. For the Freetrade S.M. Herald
and the Telegraph and the Argus and the
Courier will reach for the scalp of the Freetrader
who proposes real Freetrade ; and the Launceston
Examiner and the Sydney Mail will pursue him
with fury and an axe; and the Town and
Country Journal will sit like a vampire on the
head of his bed and gibber, and the Even Noose
will crawl up behind him like a Thug in the dark.
The Bulletin will support that species of Free-
trade leader for two reasons. First, it is practi-
cally certain that it will cost nothing, for the
votes The Bulletin brings to him will be the only
votes lie will get. Secondly, if, by any in-
credible chance, that real Freetrade that all
the alleged Freetraders say they want, but
don’t want, should arrive, though it will bring
great disaster on Australia, yet the disaster
will be short-lived and the ultimate results will be
most beneficial. After that short-lived experi-
ment there will be no more Freetrade papers or
parties or leaders in Australia for a generation.
George Reid and Edward Pulsford, even if
the mob "hasn't hanged them on a lamp-post, will
have as much chance of getting a seat in the
Commonwealth Parliament as the late lamented
Judas Iscariot; and Pumpkin Smith will have
fled from the country in disguise; and Joe Cook
will have escaped into the interior with two
vegetable baskets, and will seek to evade his
constituents by professing to be a Chinaman. It
only requires a year of genuine Freetrade, in all
its naked callousness and inhumanity, to end
the fiscal controversy in Australia till every-
body now alive is dead. And it is because every
Freetrader—every Cook and Smith and Reid—
knows this, that there isn’t one among the crowd
who ever attempted real Freetrade when he was
in power, or who will promise to try it if he gets
into power again.
* * * *
As to why Freetrade politicians advocate a
policy which, as their actions show clearly, they
aren’t brutal enough to put into effect, there are
many reasons. Most of the prominent Freetraders
are dull men, with a monkeyish capacity for imi-
tation, and a brown and sodden habit of mind.
They were filled witli Freetrade literature in their
youth, and are too much the creatures of routine
to get away from their book-lore and the things
they learned by rote. The humane instinct which
prevents them being so brutal as their theories
is something apart from the book-drivel they
picked up in childhood. They are in exactly the
same position as the Calvinist, who thinks he
believes in the damnation of infants and yet is the
kindest of men in practice. They are on the same
mental level as the devout missionary who is sure
it is infinitely better to be in Heaven, and who
fights 40 cannibals single-handed with an axe, and
kills 39 of them, to avoid getting there. They
are humorless men who can’t see what a shrieking
joke it is for a M'Millan to howl for Freetrade
and protect nearly every industry in N.S.W. ; or
for George Reid to state so conclusively that
Freetrade makes the people “jolly and fat,”
and then sneak in Protection for the sugar
industry because “ there was flesh and blood
behind it,” and lie didn’t want to reduce that
flesh and blood to the condition of a skeleton.
And only a gang that is utterly devoid of a sense
of the ridiculous could solemnly advance, as a
reason why it should be returned on the Freetrade
ticket, that it isn’t going to seriously injure or
reverse the nefarious and utterly accursed Protec-
tionist tariff—that tariff which makes its comical
little pot boil so furiously whenever it hears of the
thing,
* • • •
As The Bulletin has already shown, there is
nothing to prevent Reid and Pulsford and the
Smiths and Cook and Symon and the rest giving
Australia Freetrade, if they get into power,
save their consciences. Australia only raises at
present, in all forms of taxation (Federal, State,
and local) £3 16s. 6d. per inhabitant; Britain, in
national and local taxation, raises £4 7s. 6d. The
average income of the Britisher ranges, according
to the best statistical information, from £2O a
year per inhabitant in Ireland to £45 a year per
inhabitant in England ; in the Commonwealth
the average is £46 a year per inhabitant. There-
fore, unless it is held that Australia’s income will
disappear as soon as Freetrade happens along,
the Commonwealth is better fitted to try genuine
Freetrade than England is; it has less taxes to pay
and more income to pay with. That is saying
nothing of the fact that, according to Freetrade
authorities, genuine Freetrade would increase the
people’s incomes. Britain’s policy is to raise
four-fifths of its tax revenue by direct
taxation. The rest, until its recent slight
departure from Cobdenism, was raised by a very
few import duties which, when they applied to
things that could be locally produced, were
counter-balanced by equal excise duties so as to
put the local manufacturer absolutely on a level
with the foreigner. Britain doesn’t pamper
its farmers by specially low railway rates, or
coddle its Freetrade papers with free carriage. If
under Freetrade the incomes of the Australian
people would increase, as George Reid says they
would ; or keep fully up to the present level, as
Bruce Smith says they would ; or wouldn’t slump
horribly, as Edward Pulsford swears they
wouldn’t —then Australia is better fitted to try the
Freetrade experiment than Britain is. It could
abolish all customs and excise duties, except those
on spirits, and still levy no more direct taxation
per inhabitant than Britain does. The only reason
why there isn’t a real Freetrader in Australian
politics is that every one of them knows in his
inmost heart that, under the system he thinks he
wants, but knows he doesn’t want, the slump
would be something beyond words. So he crawls
out under cover of the complicated lie, that he
should be returned on the Freetrade ticket; that
anybody who doesn’t advocate Freetrade in
Australia is a fool; and that Freetrade is im-
possible in Australia because this country requires
revenue —just like every other country.
• • * *
All through Australia, whenever and wherever
a Freetrade candidate gets up to quote the fiscal
example of England, he should be asked the
uncompromising question: “If you get into
Parliament, will you vote for following the fiscal
example of England in its entirety?” If he
won’t, then the audience should leave and let the
subject drop. There is nothing more to be said.
No honest Freetrader has any use for such a candi-
date, and no Protectionist has any use for a Free-
trade candidate in any case. If he is prepared to
follow the noble British example then it is best to
find out that lie knows what that example is.
Britain has close on 400 different kinds of direct
taxation. The Englishman can hardly breathe
without being previously stamped, and the col-
lector batters at the door even of the humblest
three-roomed humpy with half-a-dozen different
taxpapers in his hand. Britain got rid of a mass of
import duties which troubled no one save the im-
porter, and got instead a huge, endless, inquisitorial
system of petty direct imposts-—a system which
puts its inquiring eye at the keyhole of every
citizen, and looks in at every citizen’s window,
and sniffs down every citizen’s chimney. The
Australian hasn’t the patience that the English-
man has to endure this sort of thing. Still, it is
almost a pity that the method shouldn’t be tried
for, say, half a year. The spectacle of George
Reid flying on two short legs for a foreign land,
with his warm admirers in pursuit, would be a
thing of some interest.
The Campaign for Protection in
Britain.
As the tariff agitation progresses in Britain it
resolves itself more and more into a Chamberla i
Balfour campaign for Protection, and more an
more the preferential-trade or Imperial side o
the question is pushed to the rear. I hot is t i
development which The Bulletin forecasted in
its first article on the Chamberlain programme
a use of “ the colonies as a pretext, by the help
of which John Bull ccyild pretend _ to conceal
from himself the fact that he had been worship-
ping false gods of fiscalism until he got a little
used to the idea of Protection, and then a plea,
straight-out, for a fiscal policy founded on sense
instead of superstition. The suggestion that
Britain needed to abandon that Freetrade which
was just as much a part of the traditional national
character as the morning cold bath and the Bible;
the confession that the Chosen People of these
modern times had been actually wrong in a
matter over which they had in the past assumed
such offensive airs of superiority, was an awkward
one to make, and had to be masked somehow at
first. The plea that Britain needed Protection,
not for its own sake but for the sake of its poor
little “colonies,’’ which would perish if Britain
didn’t come to its own aid with a tariff to protect
ts own interests, was an artful, if not exactly a
logical one. It took off the edge of the blow to
British vanity. It gave John Bull a dignified
means of retreat from a bad position. He could
get to shelter, not because he had to run away to
save himself, but because he had to bolt to save
his children. Now, however, that the pre-
text has served its purpose, it is being abandoned.
Sensibly and properly too. The “help the
colonies” call was very well for a “surprise
cry, but it would not stand examination. “The
colonies” already had Protective tariffs of their
own and wished for nothing better than to be
allowed to continue and improve them as they
wished. The benefits to come to “ the colonies ”
from inter-imperial tariff arrangements were not
such as could be indicated with any certainty, or
as could he negotiated for on any basis but that of
a preliminary British Protective tariff. That,
indeed, was the marrow of the matter. Preferential
trade with “the colonies” depended on a revo-
lutionary change in the British fiscal system;
necessarily that change was the issue, the sole
issue, and an issue of such vast intrinsic importance
to the British people that it must be considered on
its own merits. If Freetrade is good for Britain
it would be an utter absurdity for that coun-
try to embrace Protection for the sake of “the
colonies.” If Freetrade is bad, then the first work
is to sweep it away and then consider, as a
separate and distinct issue, how far Preferential-
ism can be of mutual advantage to Britain and the
rest of the empire. Chamberlain got the
Britisher over the gasping shock of the suggestion
that Freetrade was not part of the special Divine
Revelation to the modern Chosen People with his
“colonies” pretext very cleverly. Now his issue
is Protection versus Freetrade, and from all the
■signs he is going to win, within a very short time,
with Protection.
* * •
The cause ot Protection is helped enormously
by Chamberlain’s personal influence. As a
prophet he has the valuable characteristics to
commend him to a Chosen People that he is
intensely positive and practically predatory. He
cries out “Woe” convincingly; he points to
a Promised Land with an air of profound con-
viction ; and if anyone accuses him of being
an impractical visionary (which is the common
accusation against innovators)he can point proudly
to the golden provinces he stole in S’Africa as
proof of his practical British nature. But the
Protection cause suffers much, and will continue
to suffer much, from being championed by the
Government responsible for the War Office inepti-
tude and the new Education Act, which has
aroused the Nonconformists in Britain to resolute
hostility against the Balfour Ministry. Many
electors will dourly refuse to even examine into
the fiscal question because of their anger against
a Government which taxes them to support
schools controlled by a church which is infected
with “damnable episcopacy and Arminian-
ism,” or, worse still, by “the Scarlet
Woman.” Still, withal, the progress of the
Chamberlain campaign is astounding in its
success. Protection is everywhere acclaimed
with enthusiasm, and, significant sign, those
papers which depend most on the popular penny
or half-penny, are becoming converts to the cause.
When the Protectionist programme was first pro-
mulgated it had the support of the London Times,
the chief of the Conservative papers, and among
the new London half-penny papers it had a cham-
pion in the Daily Express. The Daily Mail,
Harmsworth’s organ, with its circulation coming
just to the million point, was at first against Pro-
tection. Now it finds that it cannot keep its cir-
culation and its Freetrade policy, and it was con-
verted by the Glasgow speech of Mr. Chamber-
lain. And, very significantly, the Daily Mail
suggests to Mr. Chamberlain that he should
drop altogether the Preference part of his
proposals and go for straight-out Protection.
The suggestion is probably an inspired one that
came from Chamberlain himself. It, at any rate,
stresses the present trend of his policy, which is
to attack the Cobdenites directly and ignore the
“ colonies ” subterfuge. The Newcastle Leader,
the most important English paper north of Bir-
mingham, lias also turned round, and now
supports Protection. There are hosts of minor
conversions. Evidently the public mind in
Britain was ripe for a change, and had uncon-
sciously come to a recognition of the hopelessness
of the Freetrade position before Chamberlain
spoke a word on the subject, but no one had the
courage to utter blasphemy against Cobden until
“Joe” arrived. Now, in spite of the handicap
of the Government’s misdeeds, he may win at the
coming general elections ; will certainly win at
the next,
* * * *
Further illustration of the new trend of Cham
berlain’s policy—to drop the preference notion,
and to go straight for Protection —is the fact that
he has abandoned an important part of his
Glasgow speech. At Glasgow on October 7 he
said :
We can say to our great colonies: “ We understand
your views and conditions. We do not think ourselves
superior to you ; we have taken the trouble to learn your
objections, to appreciate and sympathise with your
policy ; we know you are right in saying you will not
always be content to be what the Americans call a one-
horse country with a single industry, and no diversity of
employment. We understand, we can see, that you are
right not to neglect what Providence has given you in the
shape of mineral or other resources. We understand and
we appreciate the wisdom of your statesmen when they
say that they will not allow their country to be solely
dependent upon foreign supplies for the necessaries of
their life. We understand all that, and there-
fore we will not propose to you anything that is
unreasonable or contrary to this policy, which we
know is deep in your hearts. But we will say to you—
after all there are many things which you do not now
make, many things for which we have a great capacity of
production ; leave them to us, as you have left them
hitherto. Don’t increase your tariff walls against us.
Pull them down where they are unnecessary for the
success of this policy to which you are committed.
Do that because we are kinsmen, because it is good for
the Empire as a whole, and because we have taken the
first step, and have set you the example. We offer you
a preference. We rely on your patriotism, your affection,
that we shall not be the losers thereby'.”
Mr. Chamberlain does not propose now to say
“to our great colonies,” mild as is the sug-
gestion therein contained, that the colonies should
to some extent limit their aspirations after new
industries by regard for Britain s export trade. He
now abandons it, recognising that it is not likely
to meet with support abroad, and that it is, in
the present stage of negotiations, visionary and
impracticable. All things, in short, point to the
conclusion that Chamberlain is preparing to
throw overboard all the preference part of his
programme, and confine his proposals to the
simple issue of Protection against Freetrade.
And, now that “the colonies” pretext has served
its purpose, and Britain can discuss the fiscal
issue without going into hysterics at the mention
of Protection, that is the straightforward and
sensible course.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Importer Borrows the Deity.
The N.S.W. “ Protestant Defence ” jim-jam is
hard at work selecting candidates to stand for the
Australian Parliament in the name of William
of Orange, a defunct person of the Boer descrip-
tion who never got within many thousand miles
of Australia. And the fact that all its candidates
are violent Freetraders presents to the country
the weird spectacle of God’s name being taken
in vain in the interests of sixpenny worth of calico,
produced, probably, by an Asiatic heathen. The
importer is a person whose interest it is to
destroy Australian industries (run almost wholly
by Protestants) so as to make more room for im-
ports ; to deprive the mostly-Protestant Aus-
tralian workman of his work, his wages, and his
means of supporting his wife and family, so as to
make room for imports from Catholic France and
Austria and South America; and from Greats
Britain and the United States, which are about as
Roman Catholic as Australia ; and from Germany,
which is twice as Roman Catholic as Australia.
Apart from the league’s frantic desire to let the
goods of foreign Catholics in free so as to destroy
the factories where the Protestant Australian work-
man gets his living, the Yellow Pup movement
exists to help the silly, vulgarly-commonplace
Wilks into Parliament under false pretences, and
to float other nonentities into Australian politics
on the strength of a lie, and to supply Dill
Macky and others with a hoodlum species of
notoriety. The Roman Catholics are a diminish-
ing force in Australia, and form a much smaller
percentage of the population than they did 30
years ago. The alleged R.C. revival is, in the
light of figures, a lie. There is no pretence that
Wilks and his clan, if they get into Parliament,
will either kill off, or convert, or expel any
Catholics. Theydon’tpromiseto shut Catholicsout
of Parliament, or out of the Defence Force, or the
Public Service, or to confiscate their property, or
to do anything tangible. It isn’t shown that
Protestantism is a whit more advanced through
Wilks and his kind having been three
years in Parliament already; in fact, it
isn’t on record that Wilks has cursed the Pope
once in the House. Apparently nobody will
gain any advantage by the election of Wilks on
the Pup ticket, except Wilks, who borrows the
name of religion to help him into a position
which has £4OO a year attached to it; and the
importers, who take the loan of the Deity to help
them to crush Australian industry. At present,
the Commonwealth imports nearly <£15,000,000
worth of goods annually from Roman Catholic
countries or from countries which are much more
Roman Catholic than Australia is. Its purchases
from Britain have long been declining while those
from strongly R.C. countries have been increasing;
and the Protestant importers of Australia invoke
the names of the Lord and Kruger’s countryman,
Dutch William, to bring about a reduction of
import duties so that we may buy more from R.C
countries and leave our own Protestant artisan
out in the cold. Truly the name of Pro
testantism covers many faked invoices, and helps
many awful Wilks people into billets where they
can loaf on the community, and keeps many
clerical hoodlums in a good state of advertisement.
And when an aged and respectable Protestant
applies for his old age pension, most of the Tory
importers, who run the Protestant ticket so
furiously in the interests of the goods they buy
from the French and Belgian Catholic, would
refuse it if they could, and would much rather put
that aged and respectable Protestant in gaol for
vagrancy. And, as for giving the Australian
Protestant a job at making iron-work when a
Belgian R.C. will do it 2d. cheaper, they would
sooner see the blessed bones of Kruger’s relative,
Dutch William, thrown into the Yarra.
——
The National Black-and-Tan Australian
Party.
A curious animal, which is branded “The
National Liberal Union of Queensland,” has
begun to wander over the face of that afflicted
State. It is spreading itself across large areas of
the advertising space of the newspapers and on
numerous hoardings. Candidates for the Com-
monwealth Parliament are restricted by law as
to their expenditure ; and apparently this curious
animal is, in the first place, helping certain candi
dates to dodge and defeat that law. The animal,
that is to say, spends a great many pounds in ad vo
eating certain alleged principles; then the can-
didates, with the restriction upon them, spend
the few pounds which the law allows in
merely pointing out that the alleged principles
of the “National Liberal” animal are theirs.
Still, they might almost be forgiven this trans-
parent dodge to defeat the law of the land if their
alleged principles did not so shockingly travesty
the name which the beast has taken. The first
and, as it declares, the principal plank in its plat-
form is “The Promotion of a Sound Patriotic
Sentiment ”; and that seems good enough “ This
means,” it goes on to explain, “the cultivation of
that deep feeling of national pride and patriotism
which is the marked characteristic of Great Britain
and Ireland ; of the Germans, and of other nations
of Europe. It is our desire to cultivate among
young Australians a love for the land of their
birth” —and that is good, too. But then, haying
pointed out how fine a thing it is for Australians
to be patriotic, and to take a national pride in
their country, this curious “National Liberal”bird
demands that Australians shall open their doors
wide to “desirable” immigration. It isnotgame to
say straight out that it believes black and yellow
labor to be desirable; but, as it declares itself
dead against the political party which has opposed
black and colored labor, the omission doesn't
matter‘much. This highly patriotic “national
Liberal” reptile represents the black-and-tan
labor party without having the pluck to say so.


Of course the “Six Hatters” incident is dragged
in ; and its reference to the matter shows what a
contemptible fraud this bogus “ National Liberal ”
Union is. For it declares that it is in favor of
“ the immigration of desirable people of British
and other European races ”; yet because half-a-
dozen people were kept waiting tor a few hours,
through no fault whatever of tne Government, in
order to ascertain whether they were desirable or
not, and were admitted as soon as it was shown
that they were desirable, this bogus “National
Liberal” creature is amazed, and horrified, and
disgusted, and demands that the law should
be got rid of straight away. It doesn’t say how
it proposes to find out whether immigrants are
“ desirable ”or not; and the only presumption is
that it doesn’t propose to find out at all, but is in
favor of letting ’em all come. And it can’t be
too clearly stated that the country which is
prepared to let ’em all come isn’t the country
which is going to get the desirable immigrant;
and it can’t be too clearly or too often stated
either, that there is not one word in the present
law which blocks the desirable immigrant. On the
contrary, since it takes some trouble to block the
undesirable immigrant, it is all in favor of the
desirable immigrant, for no immigrant of the
latter class wants to come to a dirty, leprous
country. That is the law, then, which this
“National Liberal” party is so desperately
opposed to; and the opposition shows what sort
of a party it is, and how much its patriotism and
the patriotism of its candidates amounts to.
*
N.S.W. Labor Party Goes Back on the
Referendum.
Some things in the way of disgrace and backslid-
ing from democratic ideals, which the degenerate
N.S.W. Labor party had not previously accom-
plished, were attended to in full during the recent
debate on the Referendum Bill in the Cornstalk
Bear-garden. The Bill wasn't much at the
beginning, but it was on the motion of a Labor
member, and with the support of the Labor party,
that it was made a great deal less. The proposal
to take a popular vote re the reduction of the House
of Riot represented the melancholy acknow-
ledgment of Premier See that he and Carruthers
couldn’t hang up their alleged cherished principle
much longer, and must really pretend to do some-
thing. No two men ever struggled harder
to avoid getting what they said they wanted
than See and Carruthers, but a time had
come when the thing they said they wanted
became so loud and insistent that it could hardly
be dodged. But the Referendum, as originally
proposed, was a fake and a farce, and it was
made a worse fake and a viler farce. It pur-
ported at first to let the people say, by a
popular vote, whether they wanted the nose-
pulling branch of the Legislature kept at its
present absurdly swollen figure of 125 mem-
bers, or whether they wanted it reduced to 100 or
90 or 80 ; but there was no provision for allowing
the people to say whether they wanted further
reduction in the form of abolition of the Upper
House, or whether they wanted the Assembly
reduced below 80 members. As regards See and
Carruthers there was nothing remarkable about
this arrangement; nobody suspects them of any
liberal or progressive ideas. But the Referendum
is one of the biggest gods in the Labor
party’s pantheon. That body’s political creed
is that the voice of the people, expressed
with the most absolute freedom, should prevail.
The idea of stifling the voice of the people is
supposed to be specially abhorrent to the Labor
party. Therefore, it is an amazing thing that a
Labor member should have arisen to propose that
the Referendum should be made still more in-
efficient than previously proposed, by providing
that the people should not be allowed to vote for
any reduction of the Assembly to less than 90
members. At this point the disgraceful See
Government voted enthusiastically for the mutila-
tion of its own Bill; the Carruthers party mostly
contrived to be absent; and the Labor party came
out openly as the anti-Referendum party, and the
party which wanted to stifle the popular voice so
far as it dared. No matter what arguments may be
adduced against the reduction of the Assembly,
the fact remains that the people have a right to
decide, and that whoever interferes with the abso-
lute freedom of their decision drags the democratic
principle of the Referendum in the dirt, and is a
traitor to the most sacred of democratic principles.
As matters stand, the person who wants to vote
for the simplification of the cumbrous legislative
machine by the abolition of the Upper House
won’t be able to speak; and the person who wants
the Assembly membership reduced to 80 or 70 or
60 will be stifled, and the Referendum will be a
mere mockery. So far as this Referendum
goes these people are disfranchised, and the
Labor party has helped materially to disfran-
chise them—for no visible reason save that, if
the people weren’t thus deprived of their rights,
a few Labor politicians might lose their seats
amid the general reduction. The Victorian House
of 48 Rich Landlords wouldn’t have done any-
thing much worse. It would have refused any
Referendum; the N.S.W. Labor party grants a
Referendum with the proviso that the people
mustn’t vote for anything that the N.S.W.
Labor party greatly objects _ to. And the
Victorian House of Landlords, in another sense,
wouldn’t have done anything so bad as the
N.S.W. Labor party has done. It never
professed to have any regard for the self-
governing rights of the people, so it doesn’t
drag its own god in the gutter. Amid all
these remarkable doings it is hardly worth
mentioning that the Bill doesn’t provide that the
reduction voted by the people will be carried into
effect, and that the Assembly has most carefully
reserved to itself the right to take no notice at all
of the popular vote if the vote is displeasing or
inconvenient to the Assembly. Only one member
(and he was not a follower of See nor a Labor
member) proposed that the House should bind
itself to accept the people’s decision —even the
small amount of decision that the people are
allowed to give. He was a' very lonelv member,
was Oppositionist Garland, and he was ruled out
of order.
Suggested Exclusion of One Red-Hatter.
Discussion in the Reid organs of the exclusion
of the Six Hatters—who were not excluded—
reminds The Bulletin that one red-hatter, Car-
dinal Moran, is due in the Commonwealth on Dec.
10th, and that it would be of very great advantage
if be could be excluded—until at least the Aus-
tralian elections are over. The present Aliens’
Immigration Restriction Act is a law with a long
arm, and that arm should be stretched out to
meet the case. The position is this : The cause
of calico and cheap labor—of cheat and Chow,
so to speak—has, as a last scoundrelly refuge,
taken to the dirty ditch of sectarianism, and
from that position wages the battle of foreign-
trade with the stinkpots of religious animosity.
So far its ‘ ‘ religious ” tactics have been met with
a dignified silence on the part of the attacked
church. Rev. Dill-Macky, and Bill Wilks, and
George Reid, and Bill Kelly, and Sid Law
have raged more or less furiously, and Orange
demonstrations have screeched throughout the
land with a brass band fore and a yellow
quarantine flag aft, and the Yellow Pap has
barked for the Dry Dog with all his might,
without eliciting a single squeal from
the Green Pig. That animal, in spite
of some frantic suggestions from its press
organ, has steadily refused to demonstrate, or
to yell, or to set a brass band going, or to wave
green flags against yellow ones. This common-
sensible attitude on its part has left to the Orange
fanatics all the odium of the sectarian strife.
Their frantic cries have doubtless attracted to
them some few rabbit-brained people, but they
have repelled many thousands of citizens who,
whilst they are Protestants, perhaps extreme
Protestants, have been disgusted with such folly
and wickedness. But if Cardinal Mokan arrives
before the general elections he is likely to change
all that. The Cardinal is a violently combustible
person who has developed his enthusiasm at the
expense of his sense. He is liable at any time to
get up on a platform in a red robe, and commit an
indiscretion to match its violent hue. The odds
are even, or perhaps a trifle “on,” that he will
get excited at Bill Wilks and start a Roman
Catholic Defence Association, or say something
generally insulting about Protestants, and thus
make the sordid row, which is now mostly confined
to the disreputable and silly sections of the
community, far more general and consequently
far more disastrous in its effects. In the best
interests of Australia, then, Premier Deakin
should take steps to have Cardinal Mokan
stopped at Fremantle and put to the test of
an examination in the Basque language, or asked
to prove that he is not a contract laborer coming
out here to take a steady job from Archbishop
Kelly, or accused of being an Asiatic and
undesirable person. This might be done with as
much innocence of the Cardinal’s real identity as
Mr. Deakin chose to assume, and after Dec. 16th
the Cardinal might be allowed to land with ample
apologies for delay. This course would be
unusual, and probably lacks Australian pre-
cedent, but its public utility would justify its
unconventional character.
Braddon’s Doormat, regarded as a
Brother.
Old John Murray, one of the Queensland
National Ass candidates for the Senate, was
recently drivelling at great length, in Brisbane
Centennial Hall, about the iniquity of keeping
out niggers and the indubitable “ rights ” of every
British subject, when he was asked suddenly and
violently if every British subject had a right to a
vote. Old John nearly died on the spot, but,
when he recovered from his partial insensibility,
he explained. “ Why,” he cried, wildly, “seven-
eighths of them’s Indians ! ” Which exactly sums
up the case. The political rights of a British
subject, in a large, free, theoretical sense, are
these four:
(1) Local self-government.
(2) An equal share with every other British subject in
the control and government of the empire.
(3) No taxation without representation.
(4) A right to travel in and reside in any part of the
empire on the same terms as any other British subject.
These four propositions about sum up the case in
a strictly political sense. But to grant rights Nos.
1,2, and 3 would be bad for the pomp, dignity,
and supremacy of Britain, so as regards all the
great nigger community which forms something
like nine-tenths of the empire, Britain kicks those
three political rights over the wall, and knocks
those three great, precious, noble principles into
the cocked hat of derision. And not one loyal
Australian groveller of the John Murray and
Bruce Smith and Edward Braddon and G.
Reid stamp has a word to say against this outrage
—or rather those three outrages—on our beloved
fellow-subject. But the fourth right—that of
free locomotion through the empire and free
residence in all parts of the empire—doesn’t
affect Britain. No great hordes of niggers
want to go to England. The climate is too cold ;
the place is too crowded ; and the distance is too
great. The assertion of the sacred rights of the
British nigger and the British Chinaman in
respect of No. 4 would only bring ruin on Aus-
tralia and a few other places, and the Britisher, in
his brute selfishness, doesn’t care about them in
the least. So we find the British Government,
which has trodden remorselessly on every one of
the nigger’s political rights the assertion of which
could possibly damage Britain, almost weeping
with grief when it is proposed, at this end of the
world, to interfere with his one alleged political
right which could be asserted without injury to
Britain. Britain has decided, without turning
a hair, that the nigger can’t have the British
subject’s rights of local government, of Par-
liamentary representation, of having a share
in the government of the empire of which he forms
nearly 90 per cent. But Britain, to make up for
the other injuries, is extra anxious about the
nigger’s political claim which would only damage
“the colonies,” and as a consequence Australia
can only exclude the black and yellow myriads by
stealth with an Education Test. Britain has un-
blushingly stolen all control of their own country
from 300; 000,000 people of India, and yet is
shocked at our wickedness in not letting them
overrun a country which is not theirs. It has
declared them inferior beings, utterly unfit to
enjoy any of the political privileges of English-
men, and is broken up when we also regard them
as inferior. And the Australian Tory professes to
be broken up also. Even a Tory like Bbaddon,
who spent some 30 years in India, politically
kicking the nigger, showing him that he was an
inferior being, demonstrating to him that he was
unfit to enjoy any of the political privileges of a
British subject, and generally wiping his boots on
him in British interests, is outraged in his finer
feelings because we won’t treat the same nigger
as an equal and acknowledge his “rights” as a
British subject to pervade the Empire as he
darned well pleases. The idea that Australia
doesn’t want Braddon’s human door-mat as a
brother is quite beyond Beaddon’s comprehen-
sion. And Australia suffers from a dreadful lot
of Bbaddons.
♦
To the People of Tasmania.
The Tasmanian Upper House, which has all this
session been throwing the Government measures
down the stairs, got its second wind the other day,
and rejected Premier Peopsting’s Civil Service
Reform Bill by 11 votes to 3. Then it threw out
the Occupiers Tax Bill by 11 votes to 2, because the
measure exempted the occupiers of houses worth
less than 6s. a week rental; and it rejected the
Land Tax Bill because of the tax on absentees.
In American phrase Premier Peopsting is “up
against it.” His financial and reform programme
has been thrown out bodily by the overbearing
House of Landlords. The Landlords say flatly
that they care nothing for the overwhelming
majority that returned Peopsting, for the
Assembly, for the people, for the popular
mandate. No Australian Premier in the
last 25 years has been so completely “up
against it ” as Peopsting is. He must either be
the most complete failure of the last quarter-
century, or he must fight the Upper House tooth
and nail. He must take off his gloves and prepare
to break things. Nothing short of the abolition
of the Council, or such complete reform of that
body as will make it a mere duplicate of the
Assembly, will meet the case, and that can
only be done by intimating that the Assembly
will vote no money till the Council consents
to its own abolition, or by some equally
radical proceeding. If the Assembly refuses
to stand by Peopsting in making a square,
manly fight with the bigoted old incapables,
then he should appeal to the country; if
the country refuses to stand by him then he can
resign and retire with honor. There is no other
honorable way out. Meanwhile every Tasmanian
should vote for only such Federal candidates as
are in favor of a Federal graduated land-tax and
Federal absentee-tax. The heavy ancients of the
Tasmanian Upper House have not yet realised
that there is a power above them to be reckoned
with, and every live Tasmanian should do his
share to bring the fact home to them. “ State
Rights ” in Tasmania mean the right of the people
to have everything they desire rejected by a crowd
of ignorant old landlords; Federal Rights mean
the transfer of power to a Parliament both Houses
of which are amenable to the people. The fewer
State Rights Tasmania has the more rights it will
have.
»
Victorian Laborites and the Elections.
A pbetty good Democrat writes from Melbourne:
The Labor party urges women to vote its ticket
because it “ has always advocated strongly and worked
for the extension of the franchise to women.” This is
quite true. Yet Vida Goldstein, the Victorian lady
candidate for the Senate, is not on the Victorian Labor
ticket, though she is a pronounced radical with socialistic
ideas. Now, the movement for women’s emancipation
and the Labor cause have sprung from the same seed in
the same soil. The one is the complement of the other;
and it is the natural consequence of extending the vote
to women that, if they can get elected, they should be
allowed to sit in Parliament. But the Labor party has, I
think most unwisely, ignored Miss Goldstein’s candida-
ture. The party is throwing away a magnificent chance
of gathering together almost the whole of the women’s
vote under the Labor banner. This refusal to seize a
golden opportunity is one of the biggest blunders that
can be committed. No arhount of good intentions can
make up for it. Certainly Miss Goldstein did not
submit to the Labor plebiscite for Senate candi-
dates ; but should that really make any very
serious difference ? Not only in this particular instance
of Miss Goldstein is the Political Labor Council running
the risk of over-reaching itself, but there is also the case
of the breach with Hume Cook, the retiring member for
Bourke. Hume Cook has been branded as a heretic by
the Labor Council, and the result has been the alienation
of a large number of Labor voters, who are going to stick
to Cook and see Hannah, who has the official imprimatur,
to the deuce. Hume Cook has, on every vital point, been
heart and soul with the Labor party during the first Par-
liament, while his record is one of the best in the whole
House for attendance, attention, and energy. Similarly,
there is a desire amongst a number of self-seekers to put
up a Labor nominee against Higgins for Northern Mel-
bourne, because, although one of the most brilliant
radical-socialists in the Commonwealth, he is independent
of the Lai.or caucus. Present writer was only recently
informed by a gentleman behind the scenes that the
Trades’ Hall would rather nominate a dog than a
candidate who wouldn’t consent to be a creature
of the caucus. If that is to be the policy of the
Labor organisers, the result will be that instead of
pushing the cause of Labor forward in all directions, the
movement will be forced into a narrow groove. Better
to gather under one banner all who are opposed to
capitalism and the plutocratic regime, than to have a
collection of empty-headed automata. Better to have a
cultured and attractive woman like Vida Goldstein to
identify her sex with the cause, and a radical of such
trustworthiness as Higgins, than addle-pated mem-
bers whose only use is to vote as they are told.
Any candidate of first-rate ability who is genuinely in
favor of the cause of Labor should be adopted by the
Labor leagues, and his personal following of voters
utilised to prop up the Labor cause. Where there is no
such candidate to adopt, and no such following to utilise,
then Labor should fight the battle single-handed. The
policy of officially recognising no candidate who isn’t
ticketed “ Labor ” may yet lead to the party putting up
candidates to fight against such men as Kingston, Isaacs
and Turner, and splitting the vote sufficientlv to let in
somebody of the old Duncan Gillies pattern.
♦
Private Enterprise: A Westralian Land
Grant Railway.
“ Vigilans ” writes on the above subject :
One of the most scandalous pieces of jobbery to be
found in the Commonwealth exists in ’Groperland. I
refer to the Midland Railway Company. To the uniniti-
ated the thing is inexplicable, but by carefully going over
it you soon become convinced that there is something
rotten in other places besides Denmark. The conces-
sions consist not only of all the good land along the line
—except that which was taken up before the advent of
the Octopus but the Octopus actually owns land nearly
to Northam, on the Great Eastern Line, some 50 miles
away. One is given to suppose that a Land Grant Rail-
way has alternate blocks with the State, chessboard
fashion. This is not so here ; the co. simply picked all
the good land, leaving the sand for the State. Here you
find an uninterrupted run of 20 miles of soil; that belongs
to the company. There you find a run of 20 miles of
sand; that belongs to the State. The Octopus hardly owns
any land on the west or seaward side—that is all sand ;
but the Moore river has good land all along its banks for
20 miles, and the company owns the lot. And so it goes
on all up the line. The progress of Newcastle
has been retarded for years owing to the lock-
ing up of this land ; and there is no doubt
about its excellence, as land goes in Westralia.
As regards the railway from a settler’s point of view,
things are shocking indeed. The train is the slowest in
the States. . There is hardly any rolling stock, and the
poor cocky is to be pitied. His goods are left for five or
six weeks on an open platform, in all sorts o' weather. In
fact, hardly any of the sidings have sheds. Letters and
papers are dumped down anywhere. The first-class car
nages are dilapidated, and the second-class mere boxes
without any kind of a cushion, and you have to sit in them
for 16 hours Most of the officials do not wear any uniform,
and you can’t tell a guard from a crow. Chows, Japs,
Hindus, and whites are all penned up together in one of
these dens, and before you reach your destination you feel
sorry that you were ever born. These carriages are,
apparently, never cleaned out; the co. seems to have no
one to do it. The lengthsmen “live ” in canvas and bag
huts, with roofs made of bark and old kerosene tins, and
it’s no uncommon sight to see a careworn woman stand-
ing in the doorway with five or six children.
«
The Possible Default.
The average State Treasurer hereabouts wastes a
vast amount of time explaining how small is our
public debt, after all, by comparison with our
State assets, and how thoroughly able the country
is to pay, and all the rest of it. It is getting to
be a very familiar story, and it is mostly dry rot
and vanity. What is troubling the man who runs
the great three-ballery in London is not the ques-
tion whether Australia can pay if it wants to, but
the growing doubt whether Australia seriously
intends to pay. It thinks it intends to pay, but
that isn’t exactly the same thing. The story about
all the unsold public lands doesn’t affect the
foreign Cohen so much as it did. He knows per-
fectly well that he has no lien on those public
lands, that he can’t seize them in case
of default, and that as all the proceeds
are being used as revenue, these proceeds
won’t come his way. He would be better
secured, in a sense, if there were no public lands,
for then Australia would be a place which was
paying its way by its own efforts, and where the
Sublic revenue wasn’t likely to get any worse.
ow, it is a place which is borrowing vast sums,
and accumulating large deficits, and using up its
public estate at the same time; so, bad as things
are now, they are likely to get worse as the public
estate diminishes. The existence of that public
estate only reminds our three-ball man that his
debtor is living on his capital, and that he is likely
to be a much worse debtor as the capital grows
less. The questions which the over-sea three-ball
fraternity is bound to ask itself with increasing
violence are these:
(1)_ If Australia prefers to have almost continuous
deficits and to use vast amounts of Joan money for
revenue purposes rather than pay sufficient taxes, will it
not some day, when it can’t get the loans, prefer to
default on its public debt rather than pay taxes ?
(2) If Australia reckons it can’t pay its way without
huge loans while its land revenue is still considerable,
how will it reckon it stands when its land revenue is
much smaller, and its interest bill much higher ? Won’t
it reckon that it is much less able to pay its way then ?
When any suggestion of a possible public insol-
vency is mooted there are always individuals
like Premier See who tramp about heavily
and indignantly, and call it a shocking and dis-
graceful aspersion, and say that no English-
speaking people will ever default on its obliga-
tions. But, after all, it is better to look at these
things calmly. The situation is just this : Australia
will default just as sure as sunrise unless it gets a
very different policy and a very different set of
political ideas. New South Wales, for example,
the day it can get no more loans, would probably
require, even if it practically gave up new public
works, and merely kept its existing ones in some
kind of repair, to retrench as it never retrenched
before, and to multiply its land and income taxes
threefold. Would it prefer that to going bank-
rupt ? It probably thinks it would. “Right-
thinking” and “Respectable” people say, with
irreat violence, that it most assuredly would. If
its present utter contempt for the necessity to
make ends meet even on paper is any criterion, it
wouldn't. If New South Wales is to be judged
by the sort of Governments it tolerates, and
the financial management it puts up with,
it would rather go bankrupt a dozen
times than make such an effort. Any-
how, the British creditor is growing to be a
worried man. He has the assurance of the
Government, which is borrowing £2,000,000 or
more every year, and using up the land assets as
well, and having regular deficits on top of all,
that this country would make any effort or sacri-
fice rather than default. And he wonders if the
assurance is good enough from such a quarter;
and why, with such a capacity to make £lO worth
of effort at a moment’s notice, there is such an
absence of one pennyworth of effort now ; also,
whether the country knows what sort of effort it
is talking about, and if the capacity for effort may
not be too much rusted when the time comes.
Certainly no English-speaking community lias
defaulted for a good many years, but everything
must have a beginning. And no English-speaking
community has been in the situation that we will
be in if the three-ball man stops our supplies.
Also, it is difficult to remember any other
English-speaking community which has got the
political habits we possess.
♦
Yes-No Reid showed an Imperial hide at Pad-
dington on Saturday. He (D.T. report)—
proceeded to inquire into the “ loyalty ” of Mr. Deakin
as exemplified in three Acts of Parliament for which his
Government was responsible—three Acts of Parliament
which were the “ most mean and disloyal outrages
against the integrity of the British Empire that a colonial
public man has ever committed.” He referred to the
Act which aimed a serious blow at the marvellous chain
of mail steamers which were so important a factor in
Empire union, by seeking to prevent a few colored men
from “having billets which no white man should ever
want”; the immigration Act, which barred the entry
of their own kindred, who came across the sea in the
tracks of their own fathers and mothers ; and the navi-
gation law, the real provisions of which the Prime
Minister would not disclose.
The first Act (the Postal) was modelled, so far as
its lascar-boycotting provisions were concerned, on
a resolution come to by Reid’s own Government
when he was being supported by the Labor party ;
the second Act (Immigration Restriction) is a
direct copy of an Act which Reid placed on the
statute book of N.S.W. ; the third Bill, wrongly
referred to by the ignorant Yes-No as an Act, h%
knows nothing about, for it has not been intro-
duced and its provisions have not been disclosed,
aud seeing that Reid says they haven’t been dis-
closed it is amazing how Reid knows they are an
outrage. So these three things, one of them an
unknown quantity and two of them Reid ideas,
are, to Reid, “ most mean and disloyal outrages.”
A Confession.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The effort to maintain our supremacy would drive us
into an unwise policy of expansion in the search for new
markets; and while we were steadily getting-rid of the
most civilised, progressive and highly developed parts of
our Empire, we should be continually involved in the
“ small wars ” which have been a characteristic feature
of the Freetrade era, with a view of finding fresh
customers in savage countries. —London Times in an
article supporting Chamberlain.
Now we always thought that England had a
mission grand and bright
To wash the brownish heathen and to bear to him
the “Light”;
-That the blood of countless heroes in a noble cause
was shed,
And each hero should be pictured with a halo
round his head.
Oh ! the saintliness of England ! Oh ! the glory
that was hers —
From Kalahari’s deserts to the Himalayan firs 1
For the heathen wept for joy
When he saw the Bull dog Boy—
Crying, “ Take me as your Burden, for I idolise
you, sirs 1 ”
But the Thunderer has spoken, he has ope’d his
lips full wide,
He has made a strange confession, and we stand
electrified!
For it seems that heroes perished, and that streams
of blood were shed,
Just to sell the Briton’s calico to heathen, brown
and red,
And that, driven by necessity, they slaughtered
brother Ham
To persuade surviving kinsmen to buy shoddy
like a lamb !
And the London Times proclaims
That their objects and their aims
Were the “finding of fresh buyers” for the muck
of Birmingham 1
N.S.W.
ULOOLA.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
SURPLUS ••
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by ...
£265,597.775
£19,915,124
*73,855,783
£4,889,175
£15,418,151
£620,434
£6,565,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F-S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny ’ for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Rosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. For f urt h er particulars, address—
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFFICE-
-70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
NARANDERA
or YOUNG.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The Serenade.”
Her Majesty’s “A Country Girl.”
Lyceum “ The Painted Woman."
Criterion “A Bad Character.”
Palace “Miss Cleopatra.”
Tiv01i..... R;-kards’Co.
Town Hall Fisk Jubilee Singers (Saturdays).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty’s “ The Eternal City.’’
Theatre Royal “ The Great Millionaire.”
Otera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum Hall Mel. B. Spurr (last nights).
+
It takes Coincidence’s longest arm to hold
the plot of “ The Prodigal Parson ” together at
Sydney Palace. And yet he isn’t such a very
prodigal parson. He is, to begin with, just one
of those ordinary stage-persons who find a letter,
left lying around by the principal villain, which
seems to compromise his wife. The lady has a
father who has got into trouble, and she hasn’t
told the parson about it. The letter is really a
note from the father, whose name is Bill Jorkins
—signed “8.J.” for brevity and safety; Bills
always sign themselves “ B.” for short. The man
who delivers it is Ben Jaggins—another B.J. The
alarmed lady faints in Ben’s arms; and that, and
the discovery of the letter signed “8.J.” cooks
the lady’s goose. She is Cast Off. Just
about this time Ben Jaggins, who is a pretty
bad lot, being an actor, has a row with a pal out-
side the parson’s church, and in a rough-and-
tumble the pal is shot, with the parson’s revolver,
stolen from the organ-loft. (Presumably he was a
bad organist, and took it there to shoot back at
the congregation.) Now the villain, who is a
solicitor and Ben J.’s brother, is in love with
the parson’s wife, and also with the usual fortune,
to which he has secretly ascertained she is
entitled. The long arm before alluded to hurries
him to the church in the nick of time; he
accuses the innocent parson of the murder,
and the parson, who is the soul of honor
and truth and the embodiment of courage,
gets on a bike and escapes to Germany,
Germany being a dark place which the eye of the
police cannot penetrate. There, after eight
years, he finds that he has been living in the next
room to his wife ; and he makes the discovery on
the evening (1) which he had planned for his own
suicide ; (2) on which the wicked solicitor had
planned to carry off his old flame ; (3) on which
the lady discovers that she is an heiress. (Coinci-
dence is kept very busy just here.) Then Ben
Jaggins reforms and tells the truth about the row,
and the prodigal parson comes home to a wife and
a fortune big enough to buy a fatted calf every
Sunday for his lifetime.
* * * *
Miss Fitzmaurice G.ill is, of course, the
parson’s wife, and Chas. Blake the parson. Both
do excellent work, more particularly in the recon-
ciliation scene, though later on Blake’s assumed
character of Wiggles, what time he is waiting to
be called in to the fatted calf, is ineffective. For
the rest of the time he is earnest and convincing.
Especially in the earlier scenes Miss Hilda Fraser,
as a German beetle-gatherer, puts more character
into the principal comedy part than usual. Wilton
Power, the solicitor; John Cosgrove, as Ben
Jaggins, a part reeking with inconsistencies ;
Frank Pierce, in the small part of an old
villager; L. Walshe, as the pal who, though
he only, after all, sustained a flesh wound, yet
had a coroner’s inquest held upon hiih— these and
some others are from fair to good ; and the
mounting is by far the best of the season. Miss
Gill’s season at the Palace closes on Friday with
one night of “East Lynne.” On Monday the
Maud Lita Musical Comedy Co. appears in “Miss
Cleopatra.” The Bulletin always had an idea
that the exciting daughter of Ptolemy the Flute-
Player was married
#* * *
“Country Girl,” at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, fills the theatre nightly, and if the
worried-looking Business-Manager Goodman, Or
glossy Stage-Manager Bracy send any Marconi-
grams to J. C. Williamson, c/o the Indian Ocean,
about the young lady the ’grams will be of a
flattering character. Miss Evelyn Scott deserves
a belated notice for the natural way in which she
laughs when advising “Johnny” to try again.
And Claude Bantock is assured that his Henry
VIII. get-up in the Rajah of Bhong turn
is a splendid copy of Holbein’s portrait
of the much-wived monarch. When present
writer wishes to build a palace the interior of the
Ministry of Fine Arts, which backgrounds second
act, will be copied—frescoes, double staircase,
yellow satin, and all.
** * *
At the Mutoscope parlors the number of
people who drop in to see the King on parade,
and by mistake turn the handle that shows why
Marie put the light out, continues undiminished.
Then they come back to see if Marie has a tired
day, when the light isn’t put out with the old irri-
tating punctuality ; but, so far, Marie hasn’t. Joe
Chamberlain addressing a huge meeting in the
Midlands has been added to the films, and is
almost as great an attraction as Marie ; and other
new ones are coming in every month or so. The
Mutoscope Co. is just now busy packing plant
and duplicates for an early opening in Maoriland,
and by the end of the year Wellington will be
able to glue its eye to a peep-hole, turn a handle,
and see enough to want to see more.
** * *
“ A Bad Character ” moves with at least
one foot out of the deepest of the ruts which
melodrama has made at Sydney Criterion. With
a really bad character in the middle of the stage,
it might have been expected that there would
have been at least one illicit infant in the back-
ground ; but there isn’t, and that is something to
the credit of playwright Scudamore’s ingenuity.
The hero, who at one part of the proceedings
seems to be running neck-and-neck with the
villain, is a Dr. Maurice, who early in the evening
joins that great majority of wronged innocents
who have got into gaol. Coming out, and
“ disbarred,” he turns into a limb-setting, fever-
nursing angel of the slums, and wins the
heart of Miss Gresham (who has just joined
the company), but doesn’t know .it. C. It.
Stanford also makes a first appearance at
this point in the rusty black of a disreputable
solicitor, and puts the Dr. up to personate another
Dr., who is heir to the biggest size in fortunes
which the Criterion keeps in stock. He consents,
and then finds that the girl he is desperately in
love with is in love with his other self, Dn
Maurice; and the rest of the evening is spent
in getting him out of the mess and comfort-
ably married to the heroine, as the gal-
lery requires. Vivian Edwards plays the
hero with an earnestness which borders
on violence. He lets himself go entirely—never
seems to be capable of another pound of effort.
C. R. Stanford and Miss Gresham greatly
strengthen the cast; Miss Gresham at least looks
all that a lady should about whom so much fuss, is
made; and Stanford is a cool, calm solicitor. Miss
Beatrice Holloway has a rest, but the other mem-
bers of the stock co. keep their ends up satisfac-
torily in a play which, taking it all round, is a
good way better than the average.
** * *
The silence which has brooded over the
Sydney Royal during the past week will be
musically broken on Saturday when Musgrove’s
Grand Comio Opera Co. will re-appear witli a
new opera, “ The Serenade.” It is said that “The
Serenade,” like “The Fortune-Teller,” revives
the old traditions of opera bouffe, and has to be
seriously respected from a musical point of view.
Short of the return of a class of comic opera suoh
as Gilbert and Sullivan wrote, and which, since
their time, has only been seen in such rare pro-
ductions as the “Rose of Persia,” opera bouffe
seems about the best refuge from the reign of
inane “ musical comedy,” and “ The Serenade”
deserves a warm welcome.
** m *
“The Favorite” will win the St. Leger
for the last time, on Sydney Lyceum stage, on
Friday, and the master in villainy will cease from
the folly of dragging his victim up several flights
of stairs to drown her in a cistern on the roof-top,
instead of strangling her quietly in his comfort-
able and roomy cellar. But the principle of such
actions will abide, for “The Favorite” will be
followed by “The Painted Woman”—for which
vast preparations have been made. It is
more or less reliably reported that there is
a demon editor in “The Painted Woman,” who
murders his victims by transfixing them with a
file as they read their tender little poems to him,
and then boils them down in the lead-pot of the
stereo room. That, and death by whale-bite, are
about the only methods of murder that have not
been exploited in melodrama; and a successful
melodrama must have a new brand of murder.
** * *
Miss Cornelia May-Little, £*n American
contralto with a hyphen and, Australia hopes,
just a suspicion of twang, will make acquaintance
with this deeply-indebted country, at Sydney
Centenary Hall, on Saturday. Many pleasant
things have been said about the lady of the
hyphen in other countries, and she will approach
Australia under the patronage of N.S.W.’s breezy
salt-horse Governor and of Premier See. Henri
Staell will apply friction to the violin, and the
piano will be smitten by the fair white hand of
Miss Constance Brandon-Usher.
** # *
Mr. Philip Lytton, or whoever keeps the
gate for the amateur combination known as “The
Players,” is to be congratulated on the admission
of the lady who appeared on the programme as
Mrs. Maclntyre when the club presented “The
Liars ” a little while ago. Mrs. Maclntyre, who
has a graceful stage-presence and a pleasant voice,
sustained her part of Beatrice Ebernoe with
simplicity and naturalness. Miss Irby Marshall,
who took the leading role, Lady Jessica Nepean,
is making good progress up along the stage road.
She has a more than common share of good looks
and stature and ought to do well in light, high-
comedy parts—by and bye, of course, when she
has learnt a thousand things, elocution among
them. Men playing in “The Liars” were all
pretty bad, but Mr. Lytton’s badness did not
equal the badness of the others.
** # »
Since the Tivoli was last referred to here,
manager Leete has been made a J.P., and the
letters of fire in front of the house have, in con-
sequence, been burning with extraordinary bril-
liance. Several jokes, which have been on the
premises for many years, have also been awarded
old-age pensions in honor of the event. Next to
this, the most important thing that has happened
is the announcement that Marzella’s birds will
migrate at the end of the week. Some of these
remarkable performers have already been 26 years
in the business (Madame’s husband used to em-
ploy them to enhance the effect of his acrobatic
work before Madaine made them a show in them-
selves) ; and, in view of their advancing years, if
Sydney doesn’t turn up to see them this week it
isn’t ever likely to get the chance again. On
Saturday the bill is to be entirely changed.
** * m
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the future
Prime Minister of Italy is accidentally slain by
the boss revolutionist every night until further
notice. “The Eternal City” has attractions for the
multitudes. They take the Pope quite seriously,
and are much interested when that ancient-looking
widower turns out to be the long lost parent of
heroic Julius. All. things considered, it seems a
pity that Hall Caine’s drama didn’t bring the
Pope’s wife back from the grave, and place her at
the head of a Women’s Rights Party in Future
Italy. This would permit of a sensational episode
in the Vatican garden— the strong-minded matron,
corning along to ask his Holiness blessing on her
Political Reform Sisterhood, would recog-
nise him as her early love, and die of mental
shock to avoid complications, whereupon the
astounded Pontiff would slowly shake his head
as a signal for the curtain to descmid.
The many things which do happen in ‘ The
Eternal City ” are but few in comparison with
the stirring events that might have occurred if
Hall Caine’s imagination were equal to his
audacity. For instance, a great opportunity is
missed when Miss Jeffries smashes her brittle
plaster bust of Julius with a hammer to prevent
it being photographed for the information of
“foreign Governments,” the bust being the only
alleged likeness of Julius by which foreign Govern-
ments could identify him. If the bust were a
clay image, like those that Gallando modelled at
Rickards’ of yore, the lady might tear off lumps
from the back of the head and bang them into the
image’s face with fine dramatic effect. She might
even miss the image on one occasion and land a
mud poultice against the Prime Minister’s shirt-
front, the drum in the orchestra emphasising the
incident with a mighty boost
On Friday afternoon (27th), Miss Jeffries
and Julius Knight, assisted by the co., will give a
matinee performance at Her Majesty’s in aid of
the theatrical charities. Firstly, Julius will star
in a playlet entitled “At the Telephone ”; then
he and Miss Jeffries will undertake the balcony
scene from “Romeo and Juliet”; and subse-
quently they will produce a scene from “Monsieur
Beaucaire ” —the scene wherein Miss J. and the
other ladies strew roses for Julius to walk upon.
A break in the worship of Julius is to be provided
by Mel. B. Spurr, who will hold the floor for
10 minutes, after which there will be a further
interval of 15 minutes for afternoon tea.
*m * *
Fitzgeralds’ circus has packed up its
numerous belongings and gone in the direction
of Korumburra, where the coal comes from, so
the iron edifice by Prince’s bridge is empty once
again. A mysterious footnote to the Fitzs’.
advertisement suggested that something of a
startling character will transpire within their
permanent structure at Xmas time.
*# # *
“ The Great Millionaire ” has wallowed in
his riches for four weeks at Melbourne Royal, and
will probably continue to be a hard, masterful
capitalist for another fortnight. Some parts of
Bland Holt’s show are beyond the understanding
of the ordinary yellow-drama-public, but as a d.c.
attraction it scores more heavily than anything he
has produced thus far. In fact, it is rather sad to
find so many of Melbourne’s choicest oitizens
assembled together at 3s. per head when their
sense of what is due to tne management and
themselves should prompt them to make
it ss. Perhaps this rush of rank and'
fashion to the popular-priced Royal accounts
for “ The Great Millionaire ” being now more
thoughtfully treated by some of the company than
it was aforetime. Mrs. Bland Holt has improved
her work, likewise Miss Ireland. Generally
speaking there is a little less inattention to detail
than usual, but this remark doesn’t apply to Miss
Ross, whose habit of laughing at the wroncr
moment seems to be growing on her. Last
Saturday she giggled violently just when her
character required her to look serious and senti-
mental. Perhaps she was tickled by the thought
that she was impersonating a hungry damsel in
loose hair and a somewhat abbreviated frock.
*# * #
All this while Mel. B. Spurr has been
giving his one-man show at the Athenaeum Hall,
with good financial results. The solitary Spurr is
a mild, genial musical humorist, who varies his
entertainment, and has the personal recommenda-
tion of being his own author. Melbourne speaks
•kindly of Spurr, and would be glad to supply him
with audiences for some time to come, but it
seems the Athenaeum Hall is not available, there-
fore the indefatigable little man will close his
present season on Saturday night, and ravage
N.S.W., tinder Herbert Flemming’s guidance,
arriving at Sydney on Boxing Night.
* * *
Last Saturday’s programme at Melbourne
Opera House seemed much the same as it was a
week ago. Cirnoc insulted the majesty of the
law by getting quit of sundry handcuffs and leg-
irons without assistance from the police ; also, the
Dumonds made respectable music, the Bioscope
gave a magnified representation of the busy bees
that improve the shining hour, and an irrepressible
young man talked and sang a very long narrative
in a very long overcoat. On Monday night,
Winton and MGinty were due to reappear, after
a long absence. The return of MGinty together
with the man who pulls the string will help to fill
a large-sized want.
*# # #
Rickards made his latest series of engage-
ments under an unlucky star, seemingly. Two of
the first of his new “turns”—Jennie Grey and
the Cirnocs —left Europe by the German mail
steamer. Cirnoc, senior, died on arriving at
Adelaide, leaving his son to succeed him as
“Handcuff King,” or whatever he calls| himself.
Jennie Grey, proceeding to Sydney, had to post-
pone her first appearance at Rickards’ on account
of a surgical operation. Then Clark and Hamilton,
a married couple of comedy-sketch artists, were
landed at Melbourne with the lady seriously in-
disposed. She is at present in Surgeon O’Hara’s
private hospital, and will not be able to show for
another three weeks. Should death or sickness
befall any more of Manager ’Arry’s importations,
the “profession” will have him marked as a
dangerous person to deal with, whilst he, for his
part, will want a clean bill of health from his
“star ” before he signs the contract.
** * *
The weary-looking co. that perpetrated
“Charley’s Aunt,” at Melbourne Bijou, during
Cup week, seems to have good reason for its
dejected appearance. At Melbourne Distriot
Court, the other day, E. B. Boothman, & member
of the aforesaid co., got a verdict for nine weeks
salary due, from manager Robert Henry, up to
March last. Also, the same hopeful plaintiff got
a verdict against Mrs. Henry— otherwise Miss
Billie Howard—who took over the nominal con-
trol of the business from the time when her hus-
band laid down his burden of responsibility. Off
the stage, the Robert Henry Co. is certainly
amusing. # # # *
In the present dullness of things theatrical
in Adelaide, the Theatre Royal has done good
business, at popular prices, with a Bioscope,
which opened for a tentative four nights, and found
it well to stay on. It is advertised as direct
from New York ” —unnecessarily, for everything
about it, from Jeffries punching Fitzsimmons to
the comic business, is as American as it can be.
Elsewhere, among a wealth of concerts, stands out
a crowded Town Hall farewell to Ethel Hantke,
a young contralto of Conservatorium training,
who is going to Europe for the finishing touches.
Some recent extracts from Sydney Telegraph :
During the last ten years 110,000 more people had left
Victoria than came into it, and in spite of the natural
birth increase the population had only increased by
60,000. . . . Was there anything in Mr. Dkakin’s doctoring
of Victoria to warrant N.S.W. in following him ?
During the past few years the unprecedentedly lavish
expenditure of borrowed money by the Government had
been the means of keeping up a condition of fictitious
prosperity in the labor market of this State (N.S.W.). .. .
With the enforced curtailment of loan expenditure there
is threatened a corresponding decrease in employment.
Thousands of young and vigorous Victorians have been
leaving their native State.
In the last ten years Victoria has borrowed only
£4,679,694, while N.S.W. has borrowed £22,894,299.
It is high time the Telegraph sorted out its
feelings. One-half the paper says that N.S.W.
had, during the last ten years, a larger increase of
population than Victoria because it was Freetrade
(which it wasn’t; it was moderately Protectionist
up to 1896, and after that Reid sneaked in Pro-
tection in a small way). The other half of the
paper says that N.S.W. owed its growth of
population to the fact that it borrowed on an
enormous scale to supply work for the people and
to keep up an artificial increase of population.
One end of the Telegraph is of opinion that
Victoria’s comparatively small increase of popula-
tion was owing to Protection ; the other end of
the same paper holds that it was because Victoria
almost entirely gave up the policy of buying
population with loans. When it is a case of
cursing John See the N.S.W. increase of popula-
tion is an unnatural and bloated development
based on huge borrowings; when it is a case of
supporting George Reid N.S.W.’s increase is a
healthy growth arising out of the Freetrade
N.S.W. never had. Will the confused paper
kindly call a meeting of itself and fix on a definite
attitude ?
«
The dishonored Government cheque, which
managed to fill in a good deal of one N.S.W.
Assembly sitting last week, was not so badly dis-
honored that Parliament, which has little time
left to do something useful this session, could not
have ignored the circumstance. It is some years
now since there was a serious row about the City
Bank dishonoring a parcel of State cheques. By
a Treasury oversight a deposit was not made to
the credit of one particular public account. The
bank had some grievance to air, and promptly dis-
honored the cheques. A fierce time then ensued,
and the irate Ministry drew every penny out of
its scattered accounts and consolidated them in
the Bank of N.S.W.
Serious discussion in N.S.W. Assembly
on the Reduction of Members Referendum Bill:
Mr. O’Sullivan : The hon. member for Willoughby had
stated that he had been stopped by the bar of the House.
Why did he not jump over it ? (Laughter.) What about
Mr. Storey, of Randwick ?
Mr. Storey : I am all right.
Mr. O’Sullivan : Where was he last night?
Mr. Storey : In bed. (Renewed laughter.)
Mr. O’Sullivan : He got up at suburban meetings and
talked about reform, but when the crisis comes for
reform, where was he ? In bed 1 (Roars of laughter.)
An Hon. Member: Why not take a secret ballot 1
Mr. O’Sullivan : What is the use of a secret ballot when
men are in bed?
An Hon. Member: Let them vote by post.
Mr. O’Sullivan : How could they vote by post when they
are in bed ?
Mr. B. B. O’Oonor: By bed-post. (Great laughter.)
Jack Want starts talking fiscalism as soon
as he touches Sydney, but it can be safely said he
never fully formed any fiscal view. Henry Parkes
considered him the most hopelessly incompetent
of politicians in fiscal matters. Jack took up ad
valorem duties with great gusto one time, and the
speech with which he supported the Jennings
crowd was a flashing harangue in defence of Free-
trade and Protection. After many years he now
unbosoms himself thus to Sydney Telegraph :
I cannot see how we can possibly do without any duty
on English goods, in view of the revenue required by the
Commonwealth. But, on the other hand, I am certainly
not in favor of heavy duties on foreign goods.
And the Freetrader who can’t see a little thing
like that is being urged by hosts of people to re-
enter active politics.
Mr. Alexander Oliver, whose trip in the
Ovalau was so near a disaster, was commissioned to
do a sort of Irish-landlord work on Norfolk
Island. Hampden, when N.S.W. Governor and
suzerain of the island, had approved of certain
leasing regulations, but the islanders would have
none of them. They claim ownership of the lands
they occupy, and some of them who live in old
huts built by the Government for convicts and
other purposes, refuse to take a, notice to quit.
The main part of Mr. Oliver’s mission was to get
the islanders to conform to the new dispensation,
or failing that, to devise some cheap and handy
mode of eviction which wouldn’t cause unpleasant
things to be said about his Ex. in the papers.
The island is not now subject to N.S.W. ; it has
not yet been taken over by the Commonwealth,
and Gov. Rawson, in whose hands it is, has all the
responsibility and no satisfaction.


m
WB
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULACE.— Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco traction
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Svdnev, Melbourne and Rrishano
K nlS ’ T *P- trucks * I portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables! &c.
iNUtNib.—Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING
88T Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St„ SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager
„ , Representing Orexstein and Koppbl, Ltd., London Berlin nmi PoJL ’
Branches Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeeh.in (Tasmania) ’
Insurance World, Ist. August, 1903, writes of
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s report for
the year 1902 :—“ The Colonial Mutual during last year
achieved a notable success and completed results which
must largely enchance its future well being.”*
* * m *
Messrs. Fritsch, Holzer and Co., of the Upper
Hawthorn Brick Company (Victoria), have placed an order
with The Austral Otis Engineering Company, South
Melbourne, for a new Double Brick Machine with Feed
and Pug Mills complete, having a capacity of 2000 bricks
per hour. Also for a new coupled compound Steam
Engine of 250 1.H.P., fitted with automatic valve gear and
all latest improvements. This will make the third Brick
Press Messrs. Fritsch, Holzer and Co., have erected at
their works, and is a sign of improvement in the trade.*
* * * *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£529,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
• * * •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface : _ shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * -*..'. *
H. Brandon Skertohly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
an j P ana British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * » *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.9.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-streeb, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
Iledley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
*** . •
E. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
* * * *
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers "
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
* * * •
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and "Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. -Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
• • • *
The most interesting deep-prospecting at
Bendigo just now is being done by the flew Chum
Railway, on the New Chum line ; the Garden Gully
United, on the Garden Gully line ; and the Great
Extended Hustlers, on the Hustlers line. The Railway’s
and Hustlers crosscuts are the deepest on those lines;
but there are deeper workings than the G.G. United’s.
All three have been great producers in the past.
* * * *
The Queensland cotton industry is being spoken
of as a new thing. Captain Bobby Towns, after whom
Townsville is named, pioneered it in ’6B, but was not
successful, though prices were much higher than now.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shaving’s, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald,
174 William-street,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eagle-st.,
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z,
The Wild Cat Column.
Last year there was a drought, so N.S.W. nad
a loan-drunk because times were Dad and it wanted the
money. This year there promises to be a boom harvest,
so N.S.W. proposes to have as big a loan-drunk as it can
because times are good and it can afford to owe the
money. When it is dry it gets drunk because it isn’t wet,
and when it is wet it gets as drunk as the drink will
go because it isn’t dry. When money is dear it borrows
and spends because it is the State’s duty to help the
people at such times, and when money is plentiful it
borrows and spends because it would be a pity to miss a
good market. In accordance with this principle the year’s
loan estimates, tabled last week, provide for an expendi-
ture of £1,721,384 all, of course, to go, as usual, in
permanent and reproductive works. Some country hos-
pitals want new wards and morgues ; and £lO,OOO is to
be borrowed for the purpose. Additional wards mean
larger annual requirements for upkeep and larger
Government grants; still, this goes in with the other
“reproductive” works. A number of politicians are
clamoring for new railway lines, and, to close their
months for a few months, trial surveys are to be made ;
and these are “permanent and reproductive works,” like
the rest. A number of bridges and culverts, built out of
former loans, are moth-eaten, and the Owe’Sullivan pro-
poses to replace them and build some others, and £73,200
is down for that. Some ancient trees that have dropped
into the Darling are to be fished out, and this repro-
ductive work goes in with the culverts. The handles of
several hammers inCockatoo Island dock have been broken,
and a number of chisels have lost their edges; and £1728 is
down under that head. A ditch is wanted somewhere
near the Rookwood cemetery ; another £lOOO. The
Owe’See Government can’t even add a few pounds of
type, &c., to the State printing office without putting the
country further into pawn to get it. And the country
which does this sort of thing talks about its great natural
resources, and its wealth, and its “sturdy independence."
No doubt even the Owe’See Government can
get the money if it likes to bid high enough for it—that
is to say, if it puts enough permanent burden on the
backs of the people. Already, having been spoken to
severely by Bull-Cohen, it has been busy inventing
devices with expensive frills on them for raising the wind;
the bargain with the Citizens’ Assurance Co., for instance.
The latest is to entice money to the Savings Bank by
offering 3J per cent, from January I—an1 —an exceedingly
risky way of raising money because the deposits are
practically at call. Still, if the Owe’See loan policy is to
go on, the local market must be relied on, for the Vic-
torian experience proves that it would be hopeless to go
to any Bull-Cohen except the one who does the special
line of business with young gambling spendthrifts at
appalling rates of usury. Victoria had half-a-dozen
things in its favor :
(1) The papers had boomed Irvine’s “reform” and
Bent’s “ economy ” policy for 100 times more than it was
worth ; and Jack Want comes back with the assurance—
probably perfectly true—that it made a deep and
excellent impression on Cohen.
(2) It was a conversion loan There was no need to
find new lenders.
(3) Three options were offered ; there were flies for all
sort 3 of fish.
(4) Victoria had been off the English market for years
And (5) it was advertised as probably no Australian loan
ever was advertised before.
Yet, in spite of all this and more, the underwriters were
stuck with about a million and a half of the loan—with,
that is, a fourth of the lot. With that million and a half
still undigested, and with the underwriters wiser than
they were two months ago, what chance has N.S. Wales
lf Irvine, after crawling on his stomach to Cohen,
failed, even at rates which amount to nearly 5 per cent,
in some cases, what chance have See and Owe’Sullivan ?
If Victoria, which has not been on the market for years,
could not induce lenders to renew, how can N.S.W.,
which hasn’t been off the market for years, hope to
induce new lenders to lend—except as before remarked,
on the same terms as to the young gambling spendthrift ?
And still the Owe’See Government comes along with its
million-and-three-quarter loan estimates—for printer’s
type, some culverts, a ditch, and a quantity of black-
smith’s tools among the rest 1 If that doesn’t “restore
confidence ” and open Bull-Cohen’s pouch, and satisfy
him that bis money has been wisely put into profit-
producing industries, what can ?
N.S.W. has over £14,000,000 falling due during
tne next ten years. If there is local monev available
there is plenty to do with it in meeting these liabilities
which will have to be met. If somebody must be paid 4
or 44 per cent., let it be our own people. To renew
foreign loans at the high rates that seem inevitable will
drain the country for more } r ears than we can see.
* * * *
The Victorian State Land Bank :
Loss by Carried
Discount on Written to Re-
.... Loss. Loans Floated. Off. serves. Deficit.
1897.. £1462 £1,402
isos P 'i«oQ Reserves.
1800 " ~ ~ £l6OB 140
Toon •' S ~ - 5554 5,697
1900 .. 6846 6846 12
1901.. 8150 £2931 _ 5219 17 762
1902 .. 9090 4414 _ 4676 22 438
1903 .. 8047 1385 £2OOO 4662 27J00
The reduction in profit is no doubt due to the increase in
the cost of money. The maximum rate chargeable on
advances is 4J per cent. ; and, as the minimum fixed for the
last issue of debentures would show a return of £3 19s. 7d.
to the lender, there can be no profit whatever for the
bank in the business which is now being taken. This will
of course, affect profits for years to come as well a 3 for
the moment, as the debentures now being issued will not
mature until 1910. Since March, 1901, the cost of
money to the bank has increased by 12s. per cent. The
bank is economically managed ; but no vein of economy
struck will pay expenses on the difference between
hi 19s. 7d. and £4 10s. It becomes a question either of
declining business or of charging more than 44 per cent.,
orof furnishing the bank with capital out of the State
revenue instead of out of loans, which is, what should be
done. Assuredly anything should be done rather than
restrict the State Bank’s operations; they should rather be
enlarged. Of £224,974 advanced during the past vear no
less than £194,755 was applied to pay off liabilities to
private lenders. It is when money is dear, more than at
any other time, that the State ought to be in a position
to assist the farmer in this way, for this is just the time
when the private Cohen will use the circumstance to
demand a crushing rate of interest. Curtailment of
operations can’t then be seriously thought of.
Two heavy items appear on the debit side of
this year’s profit and loss account as presented £2OOO
writtenoff Government stock, and £BB9provision forextinc-
tion of discount on the issue of debentures. Both of these
are signs of honest finance. When a loan is floated at a dis-
count the full amount which the bank will eventually have
to pay is debited ; the discount, if there is one, is taken
m on the other side as an asset ; but an annual charge is
made tovvards its extinction, and the amount this year is
a very substantial £BB9, equal to 10 per cent, of the total
discounts. This is sound, honest, and straightforward,
and a pattern for the Government to follow in its financial
operations.
• * » »
Ignoramus : The return would be £5O ss. per
annum. It is probably the most solid industrial concern
m Australia and is expanding. The new shares will be
offered in the first place to present shareholders.
.J.K. : Circulars have been issued to shareholders re
winding up the Federal Mutual Live Stock Insurance
Association. The general man; ger, The Bulletin is in-
formed, has resigned....S.H.W. : Re graphite, write
Rosenhaim and Bryce, 375 Flinders-lane, Melb J.W. :
- oticed 6th June. Stands a good fourth among Austra-
Usian offices so far as general results g 0... .Inquirer :
The Tanqueray picture business is so close up to a
swindle that the difference hardly matters J.A.B •
lor the purpose of mining, C.P. land is private land.
The Westralian Bank (Perth, Westralia):—
Profits, less Carried
sums to Re-
written off. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
June, 1897 £16,686 17+ p.c. = £8,750 £7,936 £173,361
Dec., 1897 18,251 17+ „ ~ 8,750 9,501 182,862
June, 1898 18,542 17+ „ „ 8,750 9,792 192,654
Mar., 1899 29,762 17+ „ ~ 13,125 16,637 209,291
Sept., 1899 13,737 17+ „ „ 8,750 4,987 214,278
Mar., 1900 11,779 17+ ~ „ 8,750 3,029 217,307
Sept., 1900 12,811 17+ ~ „ 8,750 4,061 221,368
Mar., 1901 11,787 17+ „ „ 8,750 3,037 224,405
Sept., 1901 17,476 17+ ~ „ 8,750 8,726 233,131
Mar., 1902 17,416 17+ „ „ 8,750 8,666 241,797
Sept., 1902 15,489 17+ ~ ~ 8,750 6,739 248,536
Mar., 1903 18,780 17+ „ ~ 8,750 10,030 258,566
Sept., 1903 20,974 17+ „ „ 8,750 12,224 270,790
So the Westralian makes a record, eclipsing even that of
the dazzling period at the end of 1898 and the beginning
of 1899. The capital is £lOO,OOO ; on that the profit was
equal to just under 42 per cent, per annum. On capital
and reserves together as at the commencement of the
half year the return was equal to £ll 14s. Od. per cent.
Recent figures on the same basis have been :
Mar., 1901 ..£7 6 8 | Sept., 1902 ..£913
Sept., 1901 .. 10 15 6 I Mar., 1903 .. 10 15 6
Mar., 1902 .. 10 9 1 | Sept., 1903 .. 11 14 0
The reserves are larger, in proportion to capital, than
those of any other Australian bank ; an amount equal to
the whole of the capital has been added in little more
than six years. Yet in view of the precarious nature of
the industry which has brought such sudden wealth to
the State and the bank, the policy of adding largely to
the reserves is certainly the only prudent one. Com-
paring the position further with that disclosed 12 months
ago these results show up :
. Sept., Sept.,
1902. 1903. Increases.
Advances .. .. £1,027,301 £1,108,883 £81,582
Deposits not bear-
ing Interest .. 1,056,061 1,062,589 6,528
Public Securities.. 66,250 68,500 2,250
Bills in Circulation 14,967 33,237 18,270
• . Decreases.
Deposits bearing
ing Interest .. 888,371 608,844 279,527
All Liquid Securi-
ties .. .. 1,384,454 1,019,211 365,243
Notes in Circulation 130,864 113,346 17,618
Due other Banks.. 83,637 83,478 159
Some very heavy movements are disclosed here, which,
generally speaking, while increasing its (probably tem-
porary) profit-earning capacity, rather weaken the 'bank’s
position. The liquid securities still, however, represent
about £56 10s. per cent, of the total liabilities to the
public, which is a very much larger proportion than most
banks hold. But Westralia is liable to violent fluctua-
tions, and special precautions are needed there, especi-
ally as the Westralian Bank is working on so very large
a proportion of non-interest-bearing money at call. But,
keeping in view the very large amount of non-profit
earning specie and bullion on hand (£791,623 of the
liquid assets consists of these two items), what a remark
ably profitable business it is while it lasts 1
* * » *
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance Co.
(Melbourne) had an original paid capital of £37,500, but it
has from time to time capitalised portion of its profits till
the present aggregate is £75,000 ; this includes £12,500
now added. In the following, capital and reserves are
shown together as “ total shareholders’ funds ”
Total
Added Share-
Dividends on Written to holders’
Sept., Loss. £37,500. Off. Funds. Funds
1891.. £25,647 Nil £2722 _ £17,589
Profit.
1892.. 4,683 Nil 673 £4,110 21,699
1893.. 7,139 Nil 7,139 28,838
1894.. 8,192 Nil 8,192 - 37,030
1895.. 8,584 Nil 2000 6,584 43,614.
1896.. 8,790 6 p.c. =£1875 6,915 50,529
1897.. 8,848 6 „ „ 2250 1000 5,598 66,127
Loss.
1898.. 3,986 Nil _ 6 2141
Profit.
1899.. 18,922 8 p.c. = 3000 2000 13,922 66,063
1900.. 16,184 8 „ „ 3000 2000 11,184 77 247
1901.. 27,789 10§ „ „ 4000 23,789 101,036
1902.. 25,059 13+ „ „ 5000 20,059 121,095
1903.. 27,453 16 „ ~ 6000 21,453 142,548
The co., of course, computes its dividend on its total
capital, actually paid and capitalised, and therefore calls
the present dividend 8 per cent, on £75,000; but the
position so far as the original shareholder is concerned is
as stated above; The result of the year’s operations is
again extremely fine ; the profit is equal to £22 13s. 6d.
per cent, on the shareholders’ funds, and of those share-
holders’ funds only 31 per cent, was actually put up by
the shareholders. It is such a very remarkable record that
it is not surprising that the State, which is encouraged to
do so many things that don’t pay, should occasionally
look longingly this way. Nevertheless the State,
when it regards the large profits, will have to
remember as well that a company couldn’t do the busi-
ness if it did not build up a reserve—if it was not content
to make profits and put a large proportion of them by.
Besides real estate, the Colonial Mutual has £lOO 000 in
public securities and at fixed deposit; and this, while it
permits of trading far beyond what would be possible and
safe on the paid capital alone, gives a return capable of
itself paying over 10 per cent, on the original £37,500.
* * * *
No wonder the rich landlords of Western
Victoria are cutting up their estates and selling them
while the boom lasts. Here are a few of the prices
realised the other day for blocks of Warwarick and
Gnotuk, alongside Camperdown :—lO6 acres, with cot-
tage, £35 10s. per acre ; 71 acres, with cottage, £3O per
acre ; 55 acres, £3O per acre ; 30 acres, £27 per acre, and
so on, the blocks mostly running from 30 to 70 acres and
bringing from £l7 to £35 per acre. In about one genera-
tion the unearned increment on that land represents
about 3000 per cent, on its original price, whether dum-
niied or honestly bought. Ifc has been run up enormously
by the expenditure of loan money. It has been further
run up by almost entire freedom from taxation : a long
succession of Tory Governments preferred to pile up
nearly £3,000,000 worth of deficits rather than make land
carry a fair share of the public burdens. And now the
people have to pay interest on the big loans ; the people
have to pay up the deficits in some way or other ; and the
people, just because of these circumstances, have to pay
about £lO an acre more for their land.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Wool-Growers’ Agency Co.
(Launceston) for the past two years :
Dividend Added
a . „ TX . . and Written to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves servps
1902 ..£4273 25 p.c. = £2231 _ £2042’ £11979
1903 .. 3384 25 „ „ 2231 142 1011
The expenses for 1902 included £ll9 bonus to staff. The
paid capital is £B5OO, upon which, combined with the re-
serves as at the commencement of the year, the profit
was equal to £l6 10s. sd. per cent. The 60. is trading to
the fullest extent of its means ; practically the whole of
its assets consist of advances and other accounts owing
It certainly has a small stock of merchandise, but on the
other side there is an overdraft of about an eaual
amount. H
* * * *
“Water and sewerage” are always included
among the brightest and most conspicuous examples of
W u- k u °J b P?™anent and reproductive character upon
which N.S.W. has spent its loan money. But then you
turn to the Tenders Received ” section of the Govern-
jien! Gazette, and in the part devoted to the Owe-
Sullivan s department you stumble across thing’s like
this : “ Lease of public watering place, Packsaddle bore,
Silverton to Cobham : 1 tender, A. W. Sinclair, £l2O per
annum subsidy.”
* } * * *
~ . Pprth, on The Bulletin’s view
that the Westralian estimates for the current year show
£230,147, instead of the surplus of £1512
which Treasurer Gardiner claimed :
“ To have excluded the surplus of the preceding year
would have been a mistake in accountancy. Treasurer
Gardiner found himself in present and prospective pos-
session of so much, and he proceeded to allocate it. He
could without difficulty have arranged for a surplus of
£500,000 by the simple process of allowing the cash to
accumulate. Would The Bulletin approve of an idle
half-million? Treasurer Gardiner believes in spending
all revenue (above bare cost of administration, etc.) on
roads, bridges, courthouses, schools and railways. Thus
we find many unusual items on p. 15 of this budget
Water Supply, £27,150; Roads and Bridges, £134,838;
Harbors and Rivers, £29,170; Railways, £87,000;
Hospitals, £48,475 ; Schools, £45,505 ; Various Works,
£149,005; Public Batteries, £25,000; Development of
Mining, £22,000 ; Rabbit Fencing, £28,000 ; New Railway
Works and Improvements, £39,000; total, £635,143. It
would have been easy for Treasurer Gardiner to have
brought down a Boom Budget, relegating this £635,143 to
the schedule of a Loan Bill, and flattering the public with
the notion of a big surplus.”
And all this leaves the original contention just
where it was. The facts are simple—this year’s estimated
revenue is £3,613,200, and the estimated expenditure is
£3,843,347, That means only one thing—the year’s
accounts, standing by themselves, show an estimated
deficit of £230,147. A company, which makes a profit one
year, is credited with the profit for that year; if it makes
a smaller loss in the following year, that loss is shown
separately—it isn’t disguised as a profit by simply de-
ducting the loss from the previous profit. So with a
State ; the surplus of one year can’t be shown as the
surplus of half-a-dozen years. What should be done with
a surplus when that rare bird appears is another matter
altogether. The best use for it is to put it into the
Sinking Fund, which Westralia alone, of all the States, is
building up in a systematic way. Or it might go into
that separate Public Works Fund which every State badly
needs, and from which all construction should be paid.
Anyhow, Treasurer Gardiner is wasting an
invaluable opportunity. He ought to start a separate
Public Works Fund, to which the cost of all new works
should be charged. He should show, in his ordinary
Financial Statement, the cost of government and the
cost of the maintenance of old works only, keep these
items as low as possible, and transfer his surplus to the
Public. Works Fund. If he does not, a new Treasurer
will arise some day who, by the simple process of charging
to loans the works which Gardiner charges to revenue,
will show that he can run the State much more
cheaply than Gardiner, and all Gardiner’s explanations
won’t prevent him being branded as an extrava-
gant fool and the new man hailed as a financial
saviour. If the new man spends £300,000 more in the
cost of government, but “saves” £600,000 by charging
works to loans instead of to revenue, he will still pose as
the economist who saved £300,000 a year. Honest old
Dibbs fell in N.S.W. by just that trick. Whereas if the
cost of government and the cost of public works are
kept separate, such a trick is impossible, and the honest
Treasurer gets credit for what he has done.
“ Fluffy ” sums up the services of the Treasurer
whom Westralia will probably lose before long
“ Treasurer Gardiner has urged during his two years of
office—(a) that public borrowing should be discouraged ;
(5) that, where imperative, it should be local, and not in
London ; (c) that, as far as possible, all public works
should be constructed out of revenue. His first budget
contained an exposure of the blackmail that is levied on
the ‘ colony ’ when approaching England for funds—(l)
the ‘accrued interest' extortion, (2) the Imperial Trea-
sury’s little bit, (3) discounts, the worst of all. His second
budget gives particulars of a local inscribed loan of
£483,215. Another State, about the same time, borrowed
£600,000, the expenses being £8175. Gardiner’s local
loan cost £4493, which is cheap as loans go. As to the
W.A. debt, there is an accumulated sinking fund of
£655,069, and the trustees have also redeemed £180,400.
There will be added to the sinking fund this year
£176,681. All loans, as they fall due, will be redeemed
automatically. When the Constitution Amendment Bill
was recently under discussion, a provision was included
by Treasurer Gardiner that all future loans must provide
for an adequate sinking fund. This is probably without
precedent.”
• • • *
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd., carriers,
produce dealers, and other things, of Sydney and many
places:—
Net Dividends and Added to
Profits Bonuses Reserves Reserves
Jan., 1900 £6,873 60 p.c. =£10,373 £18,963
July, 1900 4,659 30 „ „ 6,145 17 477
Jan., 1901 12,594 85 ~ ~ 18,758 1L313
£4OOO applied to buy up special right of
“ B ” shareholders 7 313
July, 1901 £7,288 34£p.c.= £9,519 6,082
Jan., 1902 9,165 44 „ „ 13,269 978
July, 1902 18,089 10 ~ „ 3,395 £14,694 15,672
Jan., 1903 12,926 30 „ „ 10,185 2,741 .18,413
. 5,610 10 „ ~ 3,500 2,110'i
July, 1903 f Unexplained Addition to }- 28,523
l Reserves .. .. B,OOOJ
As to some of the dividends and bonuses mentioned
above, it should be added that nearly £35,000 of the total
was only nominally paid, calls to the same amount or
thereabouts having been made as the dividends were
declared. The capital now stands at a round £70,000
the first time for years that it has been in round figures.
All shares are now £2 10s. paid. Six months ago the
reserves were represented by £5OOO contingency fund and
£13,413 undivided profit; the contingency fund has in
the last balance-sheet advanced to £13,000 without visible
cause, which is a slovenly and unsatisfactory way of doing
things. The trading profit during the past 12 months
was equal to 26J per cent, on the capital (£70,000), or to
21i per cent, on combined capital and reserves.
* • * *
Having, through the State Produce Depdb in
London, made a market for the State’s wine, butter, &c.,
the reactionary S. Australian Government has now
decided to sell the business. The State sows ; the syndi-
cate reaps. The terms have not been disclosed, or the
parties ; it is known, however, that ex-Governor Kintore,
the guinea-pig about whom one of the English Judges
■said rather severe things lately, made a proposal some
time back to find capital to push the business. Gilbey,
the gin-man, has also been nibbling. The depdt, which
is chiefly for wine, has now a well-established brand, the
Orion; the testing, blending, and other expert business
at the other end has all through been in the hands of
Burney Young, who was a S. Australian vigneron himself
before Kingston picked him out for the job.
♦ * * *
N.S.W. official Statistical Register, part
XII., just issued, gives some particulars regarding the
Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance 00., which were
not available when the co.’s balance-sheet was analysed
in The Bulletin Nov. 19. On a rough estimate it was
then assumed that the total amount assured by the co.
was £400,000; and on that basis the assurance fund,
apart from the alleged value of premises written up, was
equal to under 4d. in the £of the amount assured. That
really did the co. more than justice. The Statistical
Register shows that, at Dec. 31, 1902, the amount of
ordinary assurance in force was £77,907; of industrial
assurance, £426,383 ; total, £504,290. At the same date
apart from the writing up before referred to, the assur-
ance-fund was £4693. This would be equal to 21d. in the
£. For every £ which the co. has undertaken to pay, it
has, so far, apart from its own small capital and the paper
on the Brisbane building, saved up the price of a postage
stamp. a
.•* * *
Mil dura, Australia’s biggest irrigation settle-
ment, has got its railway at last. So far, it has had two
roads to the world—it could go down the Murray into
South Australia, or up-river to Echuca or some other
railway ‘ poifc.” When there wasn’t a river, it had iust
to sit down and wait. The new line will probably also
serve some of the Darling country of N.S.W., because
Mildura is only just round the corner from the junction
of the Darl,n g and the Murray, arid incidentally it will
probably go a good way towards wipingout the little that is
left of the old river township of Wentworth. Asfor Mildura
itself, as the pioneer in inland river irrigation it has had to
grope its way through shoals of difficulties, which were
enormously increased by the failure of the Chaffey Com-
pany which first set th. colony going in 1887. But,
taking it all round, it’s a prosperous little community,
and already reckons up its fruit output (apricots, currants
,f’,S ran ” e9 ’ and ,emo »s) by the thousand tons
and it would be more prosperous still if there were a
can g |r r o'w nU g seaboard P°P«lation to eat what it
A relic of the Melbourne land boom cropped ud
at a State department the other dav. An unfortunate
chase I n,oney\vas^£s95 aCr rrt
amounting to £432 16,
eta, £2BB 98. fld., and this he deolined to pay. He applied
to surrender to the Crown and have the land again sub-
nutted to auction at its marketable value. This is being
done, and the upset fixed by the department is £2O.
• * * *
After all, Dick Seddon won’t be able to hang
out his shingle in England over a mutton shop ; the com-
mittee which he appointed to inquire into the idea has
killed it. Neither Seddon nor the Produce Commissioner
proposed to keep the shops open for long; they proposed
simply to make a trade and then go out, and that seemed
poor business, anyhow. The Commission says that it is
not much good just opening one shop in a 100,000-people
city-that the only people who will ever know anything
about it will be the few who live round about it and who
rush in before breakfast for a pound and a half
of chops. But perhaps the strongest point is that
tne mutton-trade can’t stand much more developing.
Last year, in order to export 3,667,101 carcases, the
states flocks had to be reduced bv 1,340.678 (from
20,342,727 to 19,002,049); and at that rate the M.L. sheep
will soon be as rare a bird as the moa. By comparison,
the Argentine figures are striking; with flocks of any-
thing from 80,000,000 to 120,000,000 head (the estimates
y, ai T). only 2,827,439 carcases were shipped. Certainly
the Maoriland meat has been better than the Argentine’s
f° i wi .f h awful slaughter among its ewe
lambs, the Maoriland produce is on the down grade.
• • • *
The Broken Hill Prop, has now spent over
£1,260,000 on plant, tramways, etc., of which about
£840,000 has been written off. Almost every develop-
ment, in either the mine or the laboratories, makes a
new plant necessary, and that usually means scrapping
an old one, even though it has been used only a year or
two. Half-a-dozen times or more the directors have
announced that “ the heavy outlay on construction
account is now almost at an end”; but it has meant
nothing, and any similar announcements in the future
probably won’t, mean anything either so long as
economies and improvements in extraction are possible
—and there is a lot of scope in that direction yet.
At present several important, though not particularly
expensive, works are in progress. Electric haulage is
being extended, both underground and at surface ; the
driers and other parts of the new chemical zinc-plant are
ordered ; and the permanent steam-condensing plant
is being built. The co. is building its zinc plant to work
the Carmichael-Delprat process, notwithstanding that
the courts have not yet decided whether those patents
don’t conflict with Potter’s. If it is held that they do
(and that is not at all improbable), it looks as though the
co. will be in trouble.
(Continued on page SO.)


DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
■■
D.J. Orient” Boot
BLACK OR TAN
CALF,
16/6
Narrow or
Round Toes,
special]
VALUE j
16/6
Gserge & Barrack-sts., Sydney
20
'A
?/
5/
i
vtfEs r
Beware.
of Imitations
u
a
<
0-
V
m
m
SOCIETY
[?]
The discovery of that strangled babe in
Hyde Park emphasises the urgent need there is of
a foundling home right in the city of Sydney, at
which the mother may leave her offspring, legiti-
mate or otherwise, if she can no longer look after
it. In Sydney, once a girl has a babe clinging to
her, she becomes a slave if the father of the infant
deserts her. Wherever she works she has to work
without wages. On economic grounds alone,
every Australian city should have a free foundling
home, for the Commonwealth wants children.
And if they turn up in too great numbers at the
Home, they can be strangled there by the Govern-
ment with less publicity than when the fearsome
deed is done by the girl herself.
UNLUCKY.
MRS. RYAN: “Fes, that’s Maggie's malm; she's
most misfortunit’ with her husbands. She’s
done her most to rear this wan, and now
annybody can see he’s on his deathbed by the
way he walks about.”
A quaint legal point ;
A Molong (N.S. W.) citizen has spent eight months and
much money trying to understand the meaning of
“simultaneous.” On March 26 he applied fora condi-
tional purchase at the local Lands Office. The clerk who
was attending to him, before actually disposing of the
matter, asked another Moloriger what he wanted at the
counter. Citizen No. 2 then applied for the same area of
land as No. 1. Their rival applications were then dealt
with, and No. 2 won. Citizen No. 1 appealed, but the
Land Appeal Court held that the clerk was right. He
then went to the Supreme Court, on the ground that his
application was lodged first and should have priority.
The other side maintained that each applicant entered
the office as soon as it was opened, which made the appli-
cations *’ simultaneous,” according to section 6 of the
Act and common sense. After two days’ arguing,-the
Null Court blew Citizen No. 1 out. It that
simultaneous applications were not to be made withjthe
mechanical accuracy of a comic opera chorus. If so, the
receiving officer could only receive one document in each
hand and one between his teeth, but if more simultaneous
claims were lodged at once, it would be physically
impossible to receive them. Their Honors were, no do]ubt,
right. Still, if “simultaneous” applications may be
lodged one after the other, how much one-after-the-
©therness may be allowed before the simultaneousness
is used up ?
A coffee-drinker’s groan :
Thirty-seven North Melbourne hotels are doomed. A
special Arbitration Court is now sitting to decide which
37 will have to close. And when I come to think of the
barbarism of the average suburban “pub,” I don’t feel
sorry. One public-house is typical of present-day Philis-
tinism. In Paris you go and sit down in a cafe and rest
your back; but in this heathenish country you lean
against a bar and compress your breast-bone. As a
coffee-drinker, I protest against the hotel because it sells
only intoxicating liquor. When I meet Abraham Jones,
and we both happen to be thirsty, he insists upon whisky
or beer, and I can oqly get one of those flabby drinks,
which taste like a boiled bolster. If Igo into a tea-room
I am urged to eat a stale bun or a granite scone, and I
am not allowed to smoke. In my not-at-all humble
opinion, all the hotel licenses should be cancelled and
new ones issued for cafes, which would have all the
attractions of pub, tea-shop, and oyster-saloon. Most
oyster-saloons are barbarous places, too. They never seem
to be able to get rid of their eternal frowsiness and the
smell of last night’s lobster and to-day’s Greek ; and
usually they are divided into uncomfortable little com-
partments like dog-kennels intended to hold a perfectly
square dog. lam glad those 37 hotels are closing. Some-
times I feel mad enough to close everything.
* * * •
The profound snobbishness of the Bris-
bane press is shown by the distinction it draws
between the “ women ” attending Labor meetings
and the “ladies” present when the shiny bell-
topper of the Boodle candidate is placed on the
table. It is pleasing to reflect, anyhow, that
there isn’t a single lady mentioned in the Bible.
* * » *
Contrast the punishments awarded by
Hungary and Australia to the adulterator 1
Recent English papers tell of a Hungarian wine-
adulterator who, on conviction, was ordered to be
imprisoned for 20 days, and to pay all costs, in-
cluding the advertising of his punishment in the
principal papers. Per contra, two Melbourne
manufacturers whose “raspberry vinegar” was
shown to consist of “little, if any, genuine rasp-
berry juice, 48.17 per cent, of water, 23.0 per cent,
of sulphurous acid, and a little coloring matter ”
were merely fined 40s. and costs. The man who
makes and sells sulphurous acid (an irritant,
especially dangerous to children) and water as
raspberry vinegar is even more of a rascal than
the spieler who passes brummagem jewellery as
fine gold ; he not only obtains money by a trick
or by false pretences, but lie also comes dan-
gerously close to manslaughter. The Australian
law promptly gaols the jewellery trickster —the
Hungarian law gaols the other swindler likewise.
A Federal Adulteration Act, introduced and
passed by a Kingston Administration, would
probably deal in an adequate fashion with this
villainous game—which is one reason why the
importer and the adulterator throw lies and mud
at that sturdy straight-goer every time.
* * * *
“ D’Harum ” : If you want to be robbed,
go to a church bazaar or fete. I was fleeced in an
original way t’other night at one of these affairs.
Was talking to some of the ladies, when one
of the church toilers who knew me by sight
came up and said, “Er—excuse me, Mr
Harum, but—er —you can obtain light
refreshments, ices, drinks, etc., at the
pavilion,” and raising his hat he walked
away. Of course I escorted the ladies to
the pavilion, and paid for ices all round.
Ten minutes later I was conversing with
two other ladies, when I was again accosted
with: “Mr. Harum, refreshments may
be obtained at the pavilion.” That meant
refreshments for three. Half an hour later
met two more lady friends, and hadn’t
been with them more than two minutes
when I heard that same voice saying at
my . elbow : “Excuse me, Mr. Harum,”
etc., etc. That meant cool drinks for about
half a dozen. Then I saw ten ladies I knew
in the distance, and I fled. If I had spoken
to them that fiend would have come up and
told me again where the refreshment tent was,
and I would have had to pay for eleven plates of
strawberries and cream.
• * • *
A quaint decision was given in a clerical
divorce case at Wellington (M.L ) when the
petitioner was granted a decree subject
to paying the respondent’s costs and £2 a week
alimony so long as she remained chaste. The co-
respondent, an engineer on a British liner, is to
repay the petitioner everything for which latter is
responsible under the order, always provided the
petitioner can manage to collect the money from the
engineer. Marine engineers are birds of passage.
The Court evidently thought the petitioner to some
extent responsible for his wife’s misconduct, and
so it took the picturesque vengeance of making
him spend his life collecting the respondent’s
alimony from the co-respondent.
* * * *
Maoriland’s whimsical Defence Depart-
ment is in such a state of chaos that its chief,
War Minister Seddon, really does not know where
he is. The latest incident productive of ribald
mirth relates to a volunteer who went to S’Africa,
gained his commission at the muzzle of the blazing
farmhouse, and returned to a billet in the Over-
staffed Defence office at £4 10s. a week. A few
months elapsing without pay, he sent in his little
account. Then there were loud explosions.
Although they were tumbling over him every day
for want of room, nobody seemed to know
officially that he was there ; and now a committee
is trying to discover who appointed him to the
fat billet, or whether he fell in through the roof
giving way when he was on it, or whether he
blew in, or what ?
THE ADMTRING CONSTITUENT.
“Mr. Irvine, Premier of Victoria, is talking of resigning
before the general elections.” —News Item.
THE COOL, CALM ONE: “ Him! Fortunately there
is a back door way out of this position.”
Hobart’s latest fashionable fad is a
Mothers’ Union. A certain sort of parasitic
mother brings along the baby to be patronised
and pampered by the fashionable faddists. The
show is held beneath the shadow of Holy Church.
The fashionable faddists go in at the front door,
showing their ankles on the steps. The parasitic
mothers go round to the back, and are otherwise
very well-behaved, and meek and greedy. Yis,
mum !
• • • •
“ Marat ” : Lay down to sleep in Sydney
Centennial Park, the other Saturday, and was
furiously and unwarrantably attacked by the
infantry forces of my native country,
who attempted to storm my position. They
evidently had mistaken me for Kruger, so
I became interested. Big fat men raced
from one tree to another, with their
% heads down to avoid the bullets, which,
* presumably, were showering on them
They dodged behind bulrushes, bits
of fern and dead leaves, and the ground
was watered with their perspiration.
There was a bit of open land in front
of my kopje, and they charged
across that at a great pace, a man
close on 16st., and aged about 60,
leading. Just when they got within
a few yards of me, the bugle
sounded, and they were called off,
and they were mad. Victory was
snatched from them ; another minute
and they would have trodden on my
corn. They formed up on the open
ground. Three officers, who had
been telling funny stories while the
scouts were rushing, kitten-fashion,
at bits of fluff, rode up without
falling off their horses, and the
senior complimented the perspiring
veterans on the spirited manner in
which they had nearly overtaken me.
Then he distributed a few certificates for
marksmanship, remarking : “ The cer-
tificates will not only be of great value to
you in your military career, but also in any
private walk of life in which you might be
engaged.” I yearned for one of them; it
would have been valuable in my walk of life
as a dog-fancier and dealer in birds. One
of the junior officers then took charge, and raced
the veterans up and down the park, changing the
movements in accordance with advice tendered
by the other junior, who observed occasionally :
“ Give ’em some moah of that form foahs, it’s got
’em tied in a beastly knot.” The old man who led
the charge got a certificate. He deserved it. I
never saw a runner’s legs fly out at such an angle
before.
* * * *
Such is Life, by Tom Collins, price 4s. 6d., is
one of the best bush books ever written. Send
postal note or P. 0.0. to Bulletin office.
“Back to Rook wood,”
said the shaky veteran in
answer to a question. “The
world’s a divil of a place
now. I left the Home
on me pension, an’ am
just half a year out, an’ I
give it best. The first
month I saved like a miser.
I hung on to me shammy
bag, an’ at night nursed it
in me bosom. I lived on
9d. a day, an’ was count-
ing on building a church
an’ having it called after
me. But 355. was stolen
from me, an I starved the
rest of the time. Next
month I was so exhausted
I took a glass or two.
Blowed if they didn’t run
me in the first day, an’
between the fine an’ some
windies they said I broke,
they copped the bloom-
ing lot. Then there was a
long, long starve, with me
hand out in dark corners
at night. Next month the
police kept me money as
they said for me, an’ I was
to go when I wanted a
bit. I went an* went, but
the man with the money
was never there, an’ divil a
ha’penny of that lot I ever
received. I told it all to a
man who had given me a
thrum many a night when
I was stony, an’ lie said he
would stand by me the
month after. He was there
right enough an’ counted
the money when I took it
out of the bank, an’ as
heaven is above me 1 never
see him since, or the money.
I suppose I went on a regu-
lar tear next month ; any-
ways they say I did. But
I couldn’t have had much fun,
for I only Jad the stuff one day when they
copped ine. When I come to, they said 1
hadn’t a penny, that I had paid it all at the
Hotel Australia for a dinner for me an'
Governor Rawson. I don’t believe them; or,
if I did, it must have been drink on an empty
stomach that made me go with Governor Rawson.
Howaniver, the beak stopped me pay for the next
month ; an’ I give the whole bloomin’ show best.”
Pietro di Spaghetti arrived in Sydney
from the ice-cream jungles of Naples a while
back, and started in the plaster-figure hawking
line of business. Pietro had misfortunes, how-
ever ; and when interrogated one day in King-
street by his compatriot Guiseppe, the bodega-
keeper, balanced his tray of little white saints
and things on his head, rolled a slim cigarette,
and answered thus: “Oh, I no like-it dis dash
coontrie at all. Yesiday I slip on de dash banan
PURSUED BY HERDS OF WILD
PREACHERS.
“The time had gone by for politicians to sit on a rail.
They would have to get down and Odeclare on what side
they were before they received the Protestant vote.”
Rev. DILL-MACKY in Melbourne.
PARTY IN THE AIR: “ Fancy I see myself getting
down among that lot I Hope the rail holds.”
(banana) in de Strada Giorgio, an’ I fall an break
four Virgo Mar’, two Garibald, five minstrel boy,
an’ lose treepence, an’ trod on iny dasli cigarette.
Oh, Ino like-it dis dash coontrie at all. Gimme
macli.”
BY NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So dark it is ! No glimmer of a moon
Where creeping scrub shuts in the grey lagoon.
Is it Love makes you shy ? Or only fear ?
Keep silence, heart, keep silence, lest they hear,
And hush the sudden jangle of the bit,
For on the slope the station lamps are lit.
No greeting word to pass from you to me,
The saddle-leather creaks—let the horse be,
With loose rein hanging he will never stray,
Knowing we journey far before the day.
So dark 1 away from sight the whole world slips ;
But not too dark, oh, Love ! to find your lips 1
Q.
M. FORREST.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
I suppose you shave ! or, if not, of course
you require your hair trimmed. The most
fashionable gentleman’s hair-dressing saloon in
Sydney is Wild’s, at 30 Sydney Arcade —the
Arcade that runs from George-street to King-
street.*
SILVER
STAR
STARCH
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
m
•‘is.
ilo us«ess t UV.R
«Troubles.
A Labor member once mentioned proudly
to the writer that “in no other country did Par-
liament enter so completely into the daily life of
the people as in N.S.W.” And he was quite
right. In N.S.W., Parliament enters so com-
pletely into the daily life of the people, and con-
sequently wastes so much time arguing about a
single citizen’s 6d. of dirt - money, discussing
whether an “ improver ” was wrongly appointed
at Fitzroy Dock, and is so generally a rouseabout,
dish-walloper, odd-jobber, errand-boy and slushy,
that it has no time to establish a good local
government system, put the finances straight, or
start a workable system of closer settlement in
those parts where closer settlement would really
pay. Now there is a new prospect before it. A lady
who says her character has been maligned, has
circularised the press demanding that she should
be allowed to appear at the bar of the House, and
there indignantly refute the slanders. That lady
has accurately sized up the character of the
present N.S.W. Parliament. It has degenerated
into a gossiping, prying, old-woman, old-cat insti-
tution, and it will find its true level on the day
when it introduces the Bill to Clear the Character
of Mary Jane Jones, who has been accused of
having a black eye and a damaged hat in a public
place ; or the measure to declare that Ann
Billingsgate was not nearly so bad as she was
alleged to be.
• * * *
Melbourne is suffering from a Chinese
strike, and Lilly Buk-stleet, that spacious home
of fan-tan and the Rats’ Push, has been a scene of
wild excitement and police helmets. Until a few
days ago the strikers took things celestially,
playing fan-tan and drawing their strike pay with
peaceful regularity. But with the advent of
Chinese blacklegs from Sydney, in Panama hats
and spiked knuckle-dusters, things livened up.
The first night there was a skirmish in a fan-tan
shop, two policemen were hurt, and a number of
Chinese of both persuasions damaged. On the
release, on bail, of the men arrested, a wildly-ex-
cited mob, led by a big buck Chinaman armed
with a large hammer, gave hot chase. The air
for a while was full of curses, chisels, dumb-
bells, and damaged Mongolian. Each man’s
baggy sleeve was a small arsenal. The employers
are not too anxious for martyrdom, and stop in of
nights. The Chinese striker seems to be an alto-
gether different person from the vegetable Mon-
golian, who would sooner run than fight or pay
market-dues any day. In fact, the legend about
the peaceful, law-abiding character of the heathen
has been killed dead. The new kind of China-
man, with his yell and his knuckle-duster, turned
Lilly Buck-stleet into a scene that suggei 'led the
storming of a Chinese city, and heaps of infuriated
and blood-stained Asiatic rioters made the locality
a small Sheol. They had no respect for the rights
of property, and burst into each other’s houses and
tried to saw each other’s heads off quite promiscu-
ously.
N.S.W. Municipalities Act is a strange
animal. If a cleaner council than usual wants to
remove the dead cat, and the venerable scrag-end
of corned beef, and the decayed vegetable from the
ratepayer’s back-yard, it can’t unless the rate-
payer consents. It can make a contract with the
ratepayer, but it can’t strike a rate on all rate-
payers. An attempt has been made here and
TELLING.
ETHEL: “She told me you told her that secret I told you not to tell her.”
BRIDIE : “ Oh, she is a mean thing! I told her not to tell you I told her.”
E THEL: “ Well, I told her I wouldn’t tell you she told me, so don’t tell her I did.”
there to get round the Act by increasing the sani-
tary rate to a size large enough to allow of the dead-
cat being removed as well as that other part of
the noisome household refuse with which the
Councils are empowered to deal; but even this
attempt has failed. The other day the Broken
Hill council, which has been trying to keep the
dry town reasonably clean, sued for the recovery
of fees based on the latter idea ; and failed on the
ground that it couldn’t prove that the amount
claimed was the amount actually expended on the
particular premises in question.
PROHIBITION AND THE PRIVATE-
BOTTLE PARTY.
WHOLE-HOG SEDDON : “ Well, gentlemen, we’ll have Prohibition
—the real thing. No license, no grog. Any man found with drink about him will be prosecuted.”
(The new Licensing Bill was rejected by the votes of the Drinking Prohibitionists in Maori-
land Parliament.)
One of Australia’s very own kids got into
the Port Fairy (Vic.) express the other day under
the belief that it stopped at Footscray. When
the train whizzed through the station the boy
looked glum, and apparently realised that it
would be something of an undertaking to get
back home in time for bed if he had to walk from
Laverton, the first stopping place. So he made
up his small mind ; and as the express neared
Yarraville at a speed of about 40 miles an hour,
he opened the door of the carriage, and at the
psychological moment, grasping the bottle of
medicine he was carrying firmly in his right
hand, he jumped. He turned something short of
300 somersaults, catharine-wheels, and hand-
springs along the platform, and in the end landed
in a heap. He lay for about two seconds wonder-
ing what had fallen on him, then suddenly remem-
bered, got up, shook himself together, and started
for home with his bottle unbroken. *The station-
master captured him,, however, and had him
examined for breaks, but nothing was out of
order, and the boy was evidently surprised at a
fuss being made about such a trivial matter.
Dead is the bathos of the Grand Old Rag
movement and heavy the load of unsold bunting
~ , ’ , ~ J °
on * le “® ar t. of the speculative flag dealer. A
f > -? rs s? n W Yr wooing the Federal suffrages of
. ® rn Melbourne, t other night, m the course
°* b struck an encore attitude, and, waving
a , , e ik A*’ tike Baker in the melodrama,
®" ou ted that he was in favor of sticking up for the
Gr-r-rrand Old. Flag. The audience merely
scoffed, and one irreverent person told him to hang
hllUSelf With it.
Some more old Sydney family properties
are iri the market, amongst them Bellevue, Cook’s
River-road, the old home of the
Talbots, built about 60 years ago,
when Cook’s River-road was a
fashionable suburb. These old
families, in many cases, failed
badly to take root in Aus-
tralia. The drought killed
some. Some d ied of too
much irrigation. Some
simply died.
Victorian Full Court has reversed Justice
A’Beckett’s decision in the Martell case. Martell
sought damages from five delegates of the Outtrim
branch of the Victorian Coal Miners’ Union for
loss of his employment, they having intimated to
his employers that they (the Union miners)
would not work alongside of him. Under threat
of a strike Martell was dismissed. A’Beekett’s
decision in the miners’ favor was reversed by
Justices Madden, Hood and Hodges on the
ground, briefly, that the men “combined to hurt
another in his trade or business, without just
cause or excuse.” All three judges held that
“the defendants undoubtedly did combine. They
also clearly intended to damage plaintiff in his
trade . . . They were not seeking any direct
benefit for themselves.” For these reasons
Martell is awarded <£loo damages. Yet to
common sense it seems that here the primary
Judge was right and the Full Court wrong. The
miners combined long before Martell was heard
of, therefore they didn’t combine expressly to
injure him. The action they took with regard to
him—refusing to work with him—was so little
intended to injure him that when the Employers’
Federation found him a better billet as steward of
their club rooms there was no hint of any strike,
though the Outtrim mine-owners are members of
that Federation and so are still Martell’s em-
ployers. The miners’ action was dictated solely
by the instinct of self-defence. Martell had gone
against unionism once before—what time he was
Eldorado correspondent of the Argus— and had
advised the acceptance of reduced wages by the
gold miners. He was an enemy of these Outtrim
miners economically, as of unionism generally, and
the miners were merely defending their interests
and their principles in declining to work with
him. And surely a man has a right to refuse to
work beside another for a valid reason.
The following appeared in S.A. Advertiser
(H/11/’03):
Port Lincoln occupies a unique position in having the
greatest number of houses where there are no children
among towns of similar size in the State. Out of 104
houses, 70 do not send , children to school. Amongst the
Government officials only one has children. The gaol-
keeper, police officer, and postal officials are all childless.
This place appears to be the one spot where people settle
without “ encumbrances.”
A few years ago the Port Lincoln oyster beds also
gave out, on account of the pa and ma oysters
having no children.
The big Henty will case, which has
engaged the Melbourne courts on and off for
years past, and threatens to crop up again, has
swallowed many thousands of the Henty money,
and there are one or two juniors who have prac-
tically lived upon it for years by virtue of small
fees earned in the modest privacy of the taxation
master’s office. One great thing about being a
lawyer is that you get paid handsomely for pre-
senting another lawyer’s little bill, and the more
you get for the other chap the more you make for
yourself.
• • • •
“C. ': Hia pants were baggy. His waist -
coat stuck out because it covered three rolls
of fat. When the Yic. State charity vote
was cut down, he rose at the meeting of
the Employers’ Federation, and said he
knew it would be made up by voluntary
subscription. He’d do his part. The
Federation applauded. Next week the
girl who got 2s. 6d. for working 60
hours, and had a constant pain from
stooping, had 2d. stopped for the fund.
\ All the other envelopes were lighter
from that out. When Hospital
Saturday came round, Three Rolls
and Co. handed over a big sum,
which they considered large enough
without any addition by the firm.
\ People said it was wonderful, and
' the papers called them philan-
thropists. They felt they de-
served it. Then the Labor
member proposed a charity tax.
Three Rolls again addressed the
Employers’Federation, and called
it coercion. The meeting nodded
its head. Then he said a lot of
things about socialistic legisla-
tion, and driving capital out of
the country. He didn’t believe in
compulsion. Next day the clerk,
who got 295. lOd. a week and had
six to support, asked to be released
from the duty of subscribing to the
Hospital Fund, as he couldn’t run it.
He got the sack for impertinence.
* * *
THE BEST MAN.
A meeting of ladies was held yesterday in N. Melb. to
further the candidature of Mr. Malcolm M‘Eacharn. Mr.
M'Eacharn made a few remarks, after which Mrs.
M'Eacharn spoke exhorting those present to use the
franchise. “They should decide who was the best man,
and then do all they could to secure his return.” — AGE.
This paper reckoned all along that some-
body would get hurt through giving way too much
to that tired feeling, and last week two Victorian
young women did it. One, at Mildura, dislocated
both jaws while yawning, while another, at
Katamatite, opened her mouth so widely, also
while yawning, that it stopped that way. This
latter damsel would make a lovely model of
Australia Facing the Yawn.
TO ONE I LOATHE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Your cart-horse tread perdition is to me,
When with your hatchet-face you hover round ;
What little spicy hours of ecstasy
I forfeit—just because you aren’t drowned.
So sure am I you never will atone,
I’ll hazard this : That, when I am no more,
My Dolly’s ma will have upon the stone
The parting shot—“ Not lost, but gone before.”
VIC.
WILL J.
A SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Why art thou laughing so careless and free ?
Rollicking Wind.
Carest thou not for the sorrow in me ?
Frivolous Wind.
Knowest thou not that my love’s on the sea,
Out to the westward he sails far from me ?
Mock not with laughter my soul's misery,
Unpitying Wind!
Why art thou sighing when all else is glee ?
Saddening Wind.
Knowest thou not that my love’s come to me ?
Sorrowing Wind.
Hush thy low moaning for these days should be
Season of gladness and sweet melody ;
Crown with thy laughter my soul’s ecstasy,
O, Wayward Wind!
N.s.w.
JOHN PHILIP COOK
OLD GIRL OF MINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One year ago, old flame of mine,
I ever thought those eyes of thine
Outshone the stars of even ;
And fondly thought the Lord above
A fairer maid, a purer love,
Had ne’er to mortal given.
That flame was last year’s flame, old girl,
This year has sent it all a-whirl—
Spread far and wide its ashes.
To-day I have another lass ;
And you have now another ass,
Charmed by your bright eye flashes.
No doubt he feels the same as I
Felt, when last year was passing by—
He could not live without you ;
To lose your love would break his heart,
The skies grow dim when you two part,
As in last year they used to.
And yet his love, the same as mine,
May in the dawning year decline —
To love and leave is human.
And rare, alas ! is human love,
The gem that travels from above
To breast of man or woman.
W. WATSON.


WAITER! I!
A BOTTLE
OP
y
VALAZE Russian Skin Food eradicates
freckles, wrinkles, sunburn, sallowness, acne pimples,
all blemishes. Guaranteed to improve the worst skin in
one month. Price 3s 6d and 6s, postage 6d. Miss Nellie
Stewart writes : “ Valaze has made a marvellous differ-
ence in my complexion; cannot praise it enough.”
Helena Rubinstein & Co., 243 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
s
k'i
Dress faßßies
TRADEMARK
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
THE VARNISHED BOARD
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
. „ Sydney, November 24, 1903.
Mr Dear Arini,—
Only the person who in a previous state of
existence had been a horse wenttoA.J.C. races
on Saturday. And as very few persons were ever
anything so fine as a horse in a previous state,
there were not more than a couple of hundred
visitors at Randwick course for the 30,000 or so
who were at the cricket match. People who can
sit for a whole afternoon watching a cricket
match must at one time have been vegetables.
The only interesting cricket match ever
played was that at Molonga, where they
used a paling for a bat, and M‘Swet’s dog
fielded and ran away with the ball, his master
taking runs till he dropped from exhaustion,
whilst the rival team chased the dog. A lot of
serviceable linen dresses got off the grass at Satur-
day’s races—that is, they cleared the grass. There
were also a few beautiful voiles, tucked and
guipured, but nothing that would require special
constables to guard it from being copied. You
know those belts with the two little bob-tails at
the back? Well, one lady had a bright green
satin zone and its two tails were run through
teething-rings of white bone.
But the Cricket Ground was a blaze of splendor.
There fashion—unable to walk abroad because
the 30,000 packed the available space so tightly—
stood up while the players sprawled on the grass
waiting for the new batsmen, to have their frock-
ing and head embellishments admired. They did
it so obviously. They posed with a deliberation
which was sublime in its whole-souledness, and
changed their poses so that the last sartorial
detail should not be overlooked by an envious and
admiring audience. When the new batsmen took
their places, the exhibitions sat down with sighs.
Cricket may not be interesting, but Sydney
Cricket Ground is a delightful place to spend an
afternoon. On Saturday there was a plea-
sant breeze, the band discoursed sweet music, and
the shaven lawn, ringed round with the greener
bicycle track, dotted over with the white-clad
players, was picturesque. Then behind were the
stands filled with a mass of women. Blue pre-
dominated, but there were a number of amber and
sherry-tinted diapbanousmaterials, which billowed
up like fleecy gold ; they were mostly worn by
women with dark hair, and looked effective, but
Chinese-like. The grotesque element was sup-
plied by the figure of one of the umpires, a little
man who wears a white slouch hat, a white coat
and black trousers. He is like the dwarf in an
Aubrey Beardsley picture. By the way, all the
players, in the glare of the sunshine and in con-
trast to their white costumes, seem to have black
faces, and it is hard to believe that they are not
negroes.
From a correspondent who has thought it out:
If women would only realise that every color possesses
its individual characteristics, and that to wear it success-
fully you must possess these ! As it is, they hazard for
effect and gain conspicuousness. It cannot be hard to
realise that pink requires piquancy ; never languish in
this tint— in spite of the old novelists. Wear blue (the
light shades of sky and flowers—not the dark, beloved of
athletes) only if you have eyes to match, and a manner
not blas6. You must be innocent, wistful, young, to
wear those delicate shades of green, most fashionable
among those who are quite the reverse. Cream requires
a lazy, indolent personality. When suffering from “ that
tired feeling" crawl into a frock of this description, and
you can languish becomingly; for what Philistine
would expect energy of a person garbed in cream?
For the wearing of white you must have.animation,
to save you from mediocrity, otherwise you dwindle to
the washed-out unnoticeab'le, familiar of the summer.
Beware of black—it is the unconscious bane of the dowdy,
and the sanctuary of the smart. You need a figure to wear
it —not a clothes frame —and a neatness that is not
apparent. There are so many things necessary, such a
multitude to avoid, that only one in fifty survives
the ordeal. Black and white, wherever it goes,
whatever it covers, always conveys an air of respecta-
bility not always genuine. Approach yellow and
its tints warily. If your eyes are clear, your skin
healthy, your spirits frivolous, slip into your gown of
maize, and go forth to conquer. There is one color for
those alone whose dark eyes and complexions are born
of the South, whose ways are tinged with languor, and (if
possible) shyness—amethyst, or as it is hideously called,
heliotrope. Its delicate, dainty shades are most fascina-
ting of all. Perhaps in the future woman will see the
wisdom of wearing a color of-- her own individuality, and
will triumph accordingly.
Marquess of Donegal!, who is in his 82nd year,
and to whom, as the cable informed us, a
son was born some weeks ago, had been twice
previously married. His first marriage was an-
nulled, and in 1865 the Marquess married again—a
lady who died nearly three years ago. The
intrepid noble, who was very anxious for an heir,
married at the beginning of the present year a
beautiful Canadian girl of 22.
‘ The first issue of the Monthly Molar and
Australian Hollow Tooth is to hand from
its editor and proprietor, Mr. Charles Hall,
of North Sydney. I may mention that I have re-
christened the scarlet-black-and-gold booklet. Its
real name is the Commonwealth Dental Review.
And it is a well-written bantling—“everything of
genuine interest to the profession will find a
place in these pages.” There are capital sum-
maries of two papers read at the Dental Hos-
pital of Sydney by Dr. Richard Arthur, M.D.,
and Dr. Horace P. Godfrey ; also, a review of the
good work done by the hospital, which was opened
so late as October, 1902. Since then if has treated
8410 cases, and like the Rajah of Bjiong is still
going strong. A “Personal Column” lends
human interest to the Review. Certain dental
gentlemen, specified, are either visiting Sydney
or getting married, or have become chuckling
fathers.
Saw Miss Nellie Stewart, on a day last week, in
a black sun-ray-pleated voile skirt and blouse
with black pelerine, fringed, the pointed back of
whioh was held into the waist by a belt under a
cut steel clasp, quite half a foot in height. Never
saw anyone else in fashion-plate or flesh with such
a buckle, or with a pelerine so caged. Suspended
from her waist by a long gold chain was a small
golden notebook. It was very smart and un-
common—Nellie is no more afraid of originality
in her dressing than in her playing. She still
looks, even in uncompromising daylight and
without a veil, no older than the youthful heroines
she impersonates on the stage. Make-up has
nothing to do with it either; she does not make-
up for daylight wear. Miss Stewart left for
Melbourne on Sunday night, but will return next
week to proceed to America.
An interview with George Rignold is in last
issue of the attractive little booklet, “The
Players,” published in Sydney. Rignold’s house,
called Braybrook in honor of his late wife, is at
Middle Harbor, and to get there you go by boat
to Mosman’s, then take two trams, one after the
other, of course, to the Spit road. Then you take
a boat and row up the stream, and finally climb a
lofty hill, on the top of which is perched Bray-
brook. “ Henry Vee ” lives there with an Italian
servant, whom ne calls Balbus, not because the
man is bald, but because he is building a wall
round the villa.
Edwin Geach, now in Maoriland, is said to be
m treaty with Mr. F. B. Dunne (“Mr. Dooley,”
the American humorist and philosopher) for a
lecturing tour in Australia. It is to be hoped the
treaty will get as far as signature. Also to be
hoped, if he comes, Dunne will not lecture in
Anglo-Saxon, * but English-Irish. But perhaps,
though, he can no more speak the Dooley dialect,
which he writes so delightfully, than one of the
Cranbrook A.D.C’s. If Mr. Geach secures his
Dooley man he ought to have quite as successful a
tour with his prize as he had with Donald Mac-
donald.
Mr. Yes-No Reid, at his Paddington meeting,
had to appeal for the removal of a woman voter
who showed her ill-feeling towards the great
wriggler by frequent interjections. It becomes
more clear every day that the woman policeman is
the necessary corollary of the woman voter. Public
opinion won’t tolerate the removal of the interrupt-
ing lady by a male authority, and even if it did he
would probably try to remove her so mildly, in
order not to arouse the hostility of the meeting,
that he would meet with little success. On the
other hand, the police-lady could take her dis-
turbing sister by the back of the blouse and rush
her down the hall at a gallop, with her hair flying
in all directions, without arousing hostility.
“If I do get into the Senate I will not stop
until the convents are opened to inspection, and
the industrial homes have regulated hours, the
same as factories, etc.” Thus a certain Nellie
Martel in a letter to a local “religious” editor.
Being a Fire Worshipper myself, I had
a humorous mind, until I read that letter,
to cast my vote for Nellie. I really wanted to
see her in the Senate, so that I could have some-
thing fresh to laugh at, but now I’m afraid she
would only irritate me. Get a political primer,
Nellie, and learn that the inspection of convents
and regulation of factory hours are not
matters for the Senate at all. It simply could not
legislate on them. The Federal Parliament can
no more open the R.O. institutions to the inspec-
tion of Mrs. Martel, and Dill-Macky, and all the
rev. Orange gentlemen than it can open Protestant
schools, and refuges, and institutions to the visits
of Mrs. Inspectress O’Flaherty and Fathers Duffy
and Mulcahy. It doesn’t worry about such small-
fry jobs. Mrs. Martel might as well promise that
if elected she would have the kerbing and gutter-
ing of Balmain attended to.
A silly season discussion has been going on m
Fogland about the degenerate boarding-school
girl. “She leaves school,” says the writer, “and
tries to boss her father’s house. She bullies her
mother, scares off the old family friends, refuses
to give her mother any assistance, and spends her
time golfing, fencing, cycling, or at clubs. She is
anywhere but at home.” Most probably this
isn’t true, except in rare instances. But the prin-
cipal of a fashionable girls’ boarding-school, not
far from Sydney, is very pessimistic about
the tone of her pupils. When a new girl
arrives, unless she be the daughter of a
moneyed Somebody, whose name is already
known, she is treated with silent contempt
or open insolence by the other girls. There
is a marked absence of generosity and courtesy
towards her, and this treatment continues till she
has made a standing for herself among them—
found herself, so to speak. The newcomers, most
of them, suffer keenly under this form of persecu-
tion, yet, curiously enough, when they have an
assured place among their school-mates, they take
their _ turn at persecuting later arrivals. The
principal says that the outfits with which some of
these girls come to school are most snobbish. A
girl of 12 will have her dressing-table and wash-
stand laden with silver-backed brushes and silver-
backed combs, and sun-burn powder boxes, hair-
pin trays, and pin boxes and jewel caskets of
solid silver. You may imagine the “side” the
silverite puts on to the girl with the celluloid
outfit.
All can tell at least one good story, if only
against themselves, care they to be frank and un-
affected and candid in the telling. This story
from an ingenuous girl correspondent has a naive
simplicity that is charming:—
Last Sunday my best boy was coming to see me. He
belongs to the bank, is a tall, handsome fellow, very
refined and gentlemanly, and has a very keen sense of
humor. We are farming folk, well-to-do, with a good
home and a fine, large house with a wide verandah
running all round. We daughters of the house received
a fairly good education and learned all the necessary
accomplishments of the present-day lady. Pa hails from
Tip’rar.v, and—with all due respect to pa, for he is a good-
natured soul—we find it hard to refine him, or to give
him an idea of the fitness of things. Last Sunday my
heart, naturally, began to go pit-a-pat when I awoke
in the morning and remembered. I hustled the dinner
through, had all the house spick-and-span, a bowl of
roses on the dining tab'.e, various specimen glasses of
flowers dotted round the drawing-room, pot plants and
ferns here and there, and everything just lovely. Then
I dressed myself in my new spring costume—a pastel
blue trimmed with Paris lace and chiffon, and a long,
sweeping train. As I took a long, last survey of myself’
I decided that I looked—well, just as nice as I possibly
could. He was to arrive at four, so, while I waited, I
thought I would practise my violin, and I felt how
interesting I would look, when I responded to his knock
and opened the door, with my violin tucked under
my angel sleeve and that far-away musical look
in my eyes. He could not fail to be impressed.
Pa came in, and sat for a time listening to me play. Then
he got up, took his chair and sat out on the verandah
smoking. I plaj-ed on, for a quarter of an hour or so,
when I heard the gate click. I glided to the window.
Yes ! it was he coming up the path leading his bike, and
looking so manly snd handsome, his face beaming with
amusement. I wondered why he was smiling so, and
following the direction of his gaze, my eyes rested on Pa,
who had got off his chair and was sitting on the floor,
with his head bent—paring his corns 1
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ A politico-social upheaval:—
Usher of the Black Rod to Vic. Assembly got an un-
expected job the other night, when the State Parlia-
ment gave a farewell dinner to Governor Clarke. Two
young men, who didn’t seem to know any other members
of the august assembly, were discovered in their midst —
a pair of uninvited guests punishing the banquet on their
own with unparalleled audacity. No immediate steps
were taken to check their ravages. They ate on and
drank accordingly, whilst the officers of the House made
secret enquiries which cleared the strangers of all sus-
picion of being legislators, aides-de-camp, or press rep-
resentatives. At last they were solemnly and officially
desired to step into another room and explain their sacri-
legious intrusion. They couldn’t explain. Then arose
the. question whether they should be handed over to the
police for obtaining banquet by false pretences, or be
simply turned out. ‘ Jack ’ Murray decided that the
Usher of the Black Rod should conduct them off the
premises in a Parliamentary manner and leave them to
their remorse. It was a proud moment for Black Rod.
He had found an opportunity to serve his country during
the recess.
“The general belief is that Miss Mignonette
Clarke, daughter of the retiring Governor, has
rehearsed her top notes with Marchesi in order to
■ing professionally. She acknowledged so herself
the day of her departure with Melba, and for
encouragement got a pab on the back from the
Diva when that mighty woman was not drying
her copious tears on the shoulders of Toorak’s
doughtiest. It was said at the time that the
Clarices were not able to save up for a rainy day
out of their expenditure allowance, and that the
Srofessional platform was approved of for the
aughter.
“ A few Melbourne yacht-owners are trimming
their sails for a wide cruise these days. Rupert
Clarke has left his stables and his theatre-boxes
to go to Maoriland to see to the finishing polish
of his expensive boat. Young Charlie Wallace,
whose wealth accrues from the John O. Wallace
estate, also prepares for the yachting season.
“ A considerable dame at present looming in
society hereabouts is Mrs. Ross-Soden. It was
this wealthy widow who supplied bountiful
refreshments for three days at the recent Town
Hall bazaar—a large item. She is a pretty
plump little body who has given more in charity
and public philanthropy during the last three
months than the ordinary Lady Bountiful gives
in three years. She was a Tyson, and has settled
down at Manhattan Hall, Toorak, or somewhere
that sounds like that. It was Joseph Clarke’s
residence.
“ Vida Goldstein has had aspersions cast on her
religious and moral opinions. She was forced to
stand up and declare on the platform that she did
not believe in free love, and that whoever said
such a thing lied with malicious intent. She
announces that her views on divorce are stringent,
and she has no sympathy for the facile putting
away of the bonds and the wholesale slackening
of the traces.
“ What a fine plump Governor and staff we’ll
have when the Waxcellency and followers drift
into office again. There’s himself like a fine
trussed table bird. There’s Lieut. Guy, whose
proportions can only be properly comprehended
when he walks abroad in his Scotch regimentals,
and there’s the well-primed and well-waxed,
urbane Selwyn Campbell, whose light grows
strong whenever Mr. Madden comes into power.
What a corpulent staff ! The ordinary aide is a
lean joke. Even the cherubic Browning lost his
dimples in the anxiety of his cloak-carrying job.
“There is, at least, one reverend gentleman
who can see the beam in his own eye. In the
sacred presence of Melbourne Baptist Union, the
other day, Rev. H. Collins, of Fitzroy, asked the
weary, old question why people don’t go to
church. ‘ They don’t,’ said the rev. gent., answer-
ing himself, ‘ because the edifice is mostly a dirty,
dreary, and depressing place, conspicuous for its
lack of good taste and culture, and renowned for
the singing of hymns to low, slow tunes, accom-
panied by an organ that has seen better days.
What is there less likely to fix the pious attention
of a congregation than dreary hymns and a
wheezy organ ? ’ asked this pastor with warmth,
and his audience, having recovered itself some-
what, could only feebly echo, * What, indeed ! ’
After all, Pastor Collins might have been a good
deal warmer without spontaneous combustion
arising. Even if the sacred edifice were painted
like the tail of a bird of paradise, the public might
still keep away. The democratic public has an
impression that the church nowadays is a very un-
progressive institution, and while that idea re-
mains even the reddest-painted conventicle with
the greenest front might suffer occasionally from
lack of support.
“Corsets of every shape and variety were in
evidence before Vic. Full Court recently. Not
only the married but also the single members
of the bar disclosed a remarkable knowledge of
the intricacies of the subject, but even Justice
Holroyd, with his birthday gaud fresh upon him,
was not quite sure as to the meaning of ‘ pair ’ in
connection with stays, and there was considerable
debate as to whether or not 70,000 pairs would
supply 140,000 ladies 1
“All ears are strained to catch the thrilling
accounts of a theatrical fracas. The rumor runs
that two bosom pals, twin souls, have had a falling-
out. The man hails from a hot clime up North.
Yes, of course it was about a man. At the recent
races, each fair one tossed her head whenever the
tide of the throng bore along the figure of the
other.
“ The belt fad becomes a joke. The latest
adopted by the advanced frocker reaches a point
up between the shoulder-blades. The next will
pot-hook on to the boned collar. After that the
belt will probably extend right down to the feet
and be a frock. The Vandycked is the approved
shape. The figure gradually goes back to the
hour-glass shape. The straight front never
pleased, though fashion kept it going for a season.
Now the original lines are being recognised. The
fashionable figure owns a waist, a gradual slope
and rise. The hips are not so protuberant. Those
who struggled with the pneumatic pad may get a
rest from its wicked vagaries.
“Melb. Paunch has been busy the last few
weeks pulling up the blinds and opening the
windows in the homes of Vic.’s Noblest and Best.
It is touching to note the simplicity with which
our aristocrats live. I used to imagine them at
meal times sitting down to a table ‘groaning
under the weight of the viands’—capons,
asparagus, pork sausages, bullocks’ hearts, save-
loys, and cream cakes, and all that, while tall,
gorgeous footmen in dazzling liveries flittered
hither and thither in the landscape bearing big
bottles of champagne. But, according to Paunch,
this is incorrect. No groaning boards—no-
flights of flunkeys—no viands worth mention-
ing—only sausage and mash and suet dumplings.
So simple and unassuming is it all, one can almost
imagine S’Malkum M'Eacharn passing the mutton,
cutlets to his missis, or Sammy Gillott helping his
mother-in-law to a slice of German sausage. Mrs.
M'Eacharn tells the interviewer, ‘ldo my own
correspondence.’ No staff of secretaries!—no.
team of typewriters —but Milady, in her sim-
plicity and morning-wrapper, inking her fingers
to write and tell the poulterer on no account to.
forget the fowl. I am awaiting, with feverish
anxiety, the interview with Mr. Robert Reid.
Think how interesting that will be—to know
what he does in his home-time! We have found
out what he does during business hours.
“Nurses, like doctors, are in honor bound to
secrecy, but a fair pillow-patter, who is about to
fly her post, threatens to issue a book—‘The
Confessions of a Nurse.’ ‘Does passion-fruit
really cause appendicitis?’ asked an innocent,
recently, of this nurse. ‘Yes,’ she. replied, with
a Sphinxy smile, ‘appendicitis is very often
passion fruit.’
“ The fortune-teller vanishes and gives place to
the palmist and the she-phrenologist. Their
‘ads.’ read whimsically, since massage is thrown
in with the character delineation, so that at one
sitting the bumps are deciphered, the horoscope
readjusted, and the wrinkles ‘of time and
trouble erased by the modern prophetess. But
the majority of gullible females are not likely
to relish massage in the dingy parlor where
mysterious charts blot out the wall and
a charnel odor prevails. Those who favor
massage like it in a rose-scented atmosphere,
where sponge and soap are handy. Most of the
silly clients of the palmists have the good sense to
fumigate their hands after the clawing.
“ Two of the most flourishing florists in the city
are men with decorative tastes and a great femi-
nine following. Well, why not? If women are
going to sit in Parliament, why shouldn’t tasty
and harmless young men design bouquets and
wire up forget-me-nots?
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lactk, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
7s. 6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Vice-rega l chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne. Sydney—Mrs. Rogers, 54 Strand
Arcade ; and Miss Cuthbert, 11 Victoria Arcade.*
A sewerage scheme has been approved of
for Parramatta (N.S.W.), the frowsily picturesque
old town on the side of the smelly creek which
the Government defiles with much sewage; and
the inhabitants, who have lived among smells and
mouldy historic associations and fusty memories
for these many years patiently, took heart and
reckoned that their borough—which ought to be
one of tbe most beautiful in the world—was at
last to be made clean. But
The question has been under the consideration of the
Cabinet, and the project is approved of, but like so many
undertakings at the present time it is hung up owing to
the lack of funds. Mr. O’Sullivan stated on Saturday
that when sufficient loan money was available he would
proceed with the work.
So Parramatta must fester in its dirt a while
longer. Australia has got down to the point at
which it can’t be clean without borrowed money.
The Launceston Examiner has a quaint
Freetrade idea of its own, which it uses at all
times and seasons, —
The Protectionists, on the other hand, demand high
duties to check the import trade. Their notion of trade
is one-sided, for while they are eager enough to secure
markets abroad for Australian products, they say, in
effect, that it is injurious to receive goods in exchange,
as it injures the home producer. We are not prepared to
demonstrate how our exports are to be paid for, unless
by imports or gold—and we have more of the latter than
we can use as a medium of exchange—we leave that for
Protective friends to explain.
The “we” of Launceston Examiner actually
can’t see a small thing like that. The idea that
Tasmania’s exports might be paid for by the
return of its IO U —that the value of them would
all be required for many years to clear off the
island’s foreign debt—is quite outside its know-
ledge.
Chamberlain put the issue straightly to
the Scotch workmen at Greenock :
If you allow Freetrade to go on what will follow ? If
these foreign goods come in cheaper, you will either have
to give up the conditions you have gained—either abolish
and repeal the Fair Wages Clause, your Factory Acts, and
the Compensation to Workmen Acts; either take lower
wages or lose your work. You cannot keep your work at
this higher standard of living and pay, if at the same time
you allow foreigners at a lower standard and lower rate
of pay to send their goods freely in competition with
yours. . . . What about the working men f What about
the class that depends upon having work in order to earn
wages or subsistence at all ? They cannot do without the
work, and yet the work will go if it is not produced in
this country. This is the state of things against which I
am protesting.
An English court has wisely committed
a faith-healer for trial, and, most unwisely, has
allowed him bail. This ruffian's little girl broke
her shoulder, and spent about a fortnight in
agony while she was humped around from one
chapel to another to be prayed over. The sect
also cabled to Dowie to pray for her. The results
were nil, but though the fact was sufficiently
evidenced by the protrusion of the broken bone,
the callous crowd of frauds simply went on
praj’ing. In the end an unconverted policeman
had the father arrested for cruelty, and then the
child was attended to. Most faith-healers exhibit
this same tendency to practise their faith on some
one else. The world is full of large, robust
healers who do things like the above to theii
children, yet who get medical aid for themselves
on very slight provocation. An individual of
that sort should have certainly been allowed to
get out of gaol by faith. Bail is a worldly
contrivance.


NEURALGIA.
If you have Neuralgia, that’s your fault. You can blame nobody but yourself when you know
positively that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People have cured the very worst cases of Neuralgia in all
Australia. There's no doubt about that. You can find cases in your own town—among your neighbors—
among those whose word you would accept as readily as their bond. Here, for instance, is proof from Sydney :
«I suffered from nagging Neuralgia for 11 years,” says Mrs. Mary Wiseman, 27 Hartley-street, Bald Rock, Balmain,
Sydney. “My whole health was wretched. Some days I was too bilious to hold my head up. But the nerves in my
face and head were always jumping and twitching, and the continual pain had me completely worn out. Many and
many a night I walked the floor trying to ease the hot, fierce pain that shot up my head at the back of my neck. Unless
you suffered like I did, you’d never think that Neuralgia could be so agonising. I went to the doctor, but the medicine
he gave me only eased me a little, and soon I was worse than ever. Then I saw that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People, by actually making new blood, soothed and steadied the nerves, and so cured Neuralgia. I got them at
Pattinson’s the chemist’s, and at the end of a week I felt better. Gradually the tender soreness left my face and head,
and the new blood began to strengthen me. I got a splendid appetite and slept like a top. After a while the Neuralgia
stopped altogether. My spirits rose, and I felt a very different woman. I could not feel better than Ido now, and I
can’t understand why people should go on suffering from Neuralgia or general ill-health when they know they have a
sure and certain cure in Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.”
Price per box, 2s. 9d. ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE WHATEVER-GET THE GENUINE.
Six boxes, 15s. 3d.
m
m
PERSONAL ITEMS.
There were 13 new solicitors admitted in
N.S.W. last Saturday in this devil’s year 1903 ;
and may Heaven have mercy upon them.
Warner, the English captain, is a barrister
who at one time “ devilled ” for Alfred Lyttelton,
Chamberlain’s successor at the Colonial Office.
Mat Larkin, once o,f the South Melbourne
Building Society, has re-opened business as a
house, land and estate agent in South Melbourne.
Glasgow Evening News :
Does the athletic record of Mr. Alfred Lyttelton really
justify his appointment as Colonial Secretary ? Black-
ham was a better wicket-keeper.
Dick Seddon now holds the belt for longest
continuous term years) as Premier in Austra-
lasia. Till a couple of months ago Forrest led.
Kingston holds third place for long continuance.
Mrs. Sarah Elizabeth Harran, who died
the other day at Fitzroy (Vic.), aged 89, arrived
in Sydney 86 years ago, her father, T. Thatcher,
being botanist on the staff of Governor Mac-
quarie.
The father of the late Count Rossi was
appointed police magistrate in Sydney in 1825.
He was generally credited with having been one
of the “engineers” for George TV., “the first
gentleman in Europe,” in the trial against Queen
Caroline.
The late Charles Nicholson took part in
the separation of Victoria from N.S.W. and in
the separation of Queensland from N.S.W., and
twelve years ago accepted the office of London
representative of the Central Queensland Separa-
tion League.
It is alleged that Insolvency Commissioner
Russell (S.A.) was decorated with the Imperial
Service Order as a solatium for not being selected
to succeed Judge Bundey. Russell isn’t so young
as he was, and at his age a glass bead is a poor
substitute for a good billet.
Major J. F. Thomas, of Tenterfield,
demands, by newspaper notice, apologies from
those who wrote congratulating him on winning
the Glen Innes election. It was another Thomas
who formed the tail of Carruthers’ squalid
battalion, and this Thomas isn’t going to be mis-
taken for that Thomas with impunity.
Donald Macdonald tells the electors of
Corio. (Vic.) that he was baptised in the Pres-
byterian Church, was subsequently, under the
influence of relatives, connected with the Angli-
can and the Roman Catholic Churches, and that he
is entirely free from sectarian bias. Mac. in fact
appeals on the ground that he has inspected a
whole lot of creeds, and found them all equally
unsatisfactory.
THE IMPROVING YEARS.
“ Men don’t marry so young as they used to.” “ No, the world is getting wiser every
day—it is only a question of time when we won’t marry at all.”
J. P. Gray, now out for the Senate on the
Importers’ ticket in N.S.W., is the son of a
Chartist. It doesn’t seein, however, that Gray’s
father is much use to N.S.W. If the son of young
Gray’s father were a little more like the father of
old Gray’s son the situation might be different.
Returning sanity. That benevolent and
public-spirited North Coast (N.S.W.) doctor,
whose name disappeared from the list of J’s.P.
because, it was alleged, he was a pro-Boer, has
been re-gazetted now that it is proved he was
the sane man and the general public was the
lunatic.
Queensland ex-Premier Philp takes his
licking badly. The M.L.A. who was mainly
responsible for the downfall of the Philp Ministry
recently rang up the ex-Premier on the telephone
to discuss a matter of mutual concern. Mr. Philp
declined to answer; “he refused to speak to
Mr. .”
R. H. Solly, one of the Victorian Senate
Labor candidates, was to have delivered an address
in Rush worth recently from the band rotunda, but
was prevented from doing so by a hostile bands-
man who insisted on his right to use the place for
practice. Solly spoke in the open, standing on a
water trough.
The Victorian Labor candidates for the
Senate are stumping the State under disadvan-
tages —principally through lack of funds. “ Open
air” meetings have been the order of the night—
while battler Barker has had a broken arm to
nurse during his discourses on the aims of the
Commonwealth Labor party,
The first woman candidate for the Repre-
sentatives is Miss Selina Anderson, who opposes
Yellow Pup Wilks in Dailey (Sydney) electorate.
And as anybody is better than the pitiful poli-
tician who tries to get himself a billet in the name
of God and religion, the public had better vote
enthusiastically for Miss Anderson if no stronger
anti-Pup candidate appears.
Nearly passed out recently, as result of
pneumonia, the popular Melbourne press veteran,
“Alf.” Wilson, who was doing work for metro-
politan and country papers what time some of the
present day Melbourne-editors were in swaddling
clothes. The unassuming Alf. lias probably a
bigger store of reminiscences than any other Mel-
bourne scribe, but these are lost to the world
through his habit of sticking closely to the busi-
ness of the passing day.
Two more Labor M’s.P. have been ad-
mitted as barristers —Hughes, of the Reps., and
D. R. Hall (formerly private secretary to the
Lands Minister), of N.S.W. State Assembly.
And W. M. Daley, also of the State Assembly,
starts as a solicitor. N.S.W. State Labor party
had one solicitor in it already—Sullivan, returned
at last elections. It seems in danger of having
too many solicitors.
One Victorian pressman, who strayed into
the House of Rich Landlords during the Factories
Bill wrangle, was so greatly struck with, the
patriarchal appearance of C. J. Ham that he went
round making kindly inquiries after other mem-
bers of the family. Ham must have been rather
astonished next day when he received a letter
asking what had become of his brothers, Shem
and Japhet ; also whether Noah, his father, was
enjoying a ripe old age.
“Cheetah,” from a place of sleep :
The advantage of being a hero of some kind is seen in
Corio electorate, where Donald Macdonald is seeking to
wrest the seat from Crouch in the Aequs interest. There
is a third nondescript in the field, but he doesn’t count
just now. Mac. has ladies on his committee, and ladies
canvassing all and sundry, and his meetings are full of
ladies. They call him “Dr.” Macdonald, having heard
vaguely that he helped to relieve Lady Smith, who,
presumably, was ill. Donald seems to know about as
little of Federal politics as he does of Hittite swear
language, and his views on White Australia are as clear
as his ideas on the origin of the Bunyip ; hut the Boer
war racket may carry him through.
A Walcha (N.S.W.) old-age pensioner
wrote, the other day, to the local registrar saying
that his health had improved so much that he felt
he could now earn his own living. “I do not wish
to be a burden on the State, and I herewith sur-
render my certificate,” he wrote. N.S. Wales is
still waiting to hear from that pensioner who gets
about 10 times more than the Walcha old man has
been drawing, and who has recovered his health
sufficiently to carry on a bustling business in the
city, and between times to make nasty remarks
about the rapacity of the working man.
A legal man writes from Brisbane :
A quaint trouble is vexing some people up North.
Justice Cooper having been appointed Chief Justice, Real
becomes Senior Puisne Judge. But Justice Chubb, of
the Northern Court, is, by a few months, Real’s senior.
So long, however, as Chubb stays in the North, though he
is the Puisne Judge who is Senior to Real, he can’t be
Senior Puisne Judge. But if he gets down to Brisbane it
isn’t very certain what will happen ; for, though one law
says that a Northern Judge can’t be Senior Puisne Judge,
another says that a Northern Judge shall have “ and
shall be deemed to have always had” the same “juris-
diction, powers and authorities ”as any other Judge. To
get out of the tangle it is proposed that a Bill should be
put through making Real Senior Puisne Judge—which he
is already, so long as Chubb is kept up North. And
Chubb’s friends don’t know what to do ; for if the Bill
isn’t passed, then Chubb, who wants a shift South, will
probably be kept up North, and if it is carried then
Chubb will have to sit as Junior to the Judge who was
appointed after him, and i adi man will be both Junior
and Senior to the other mau.
Narrated by the Yahram Chronicle :
Soon after her arrival in Melbourne Miss Ada Crossley
arranged to sing at her mother’s home, and her brothers
and sisters had assembled in a room with her for the
purpose. Mrs. Crossley, who is an invalid, was wheeled
into the room in a chair, and the sight of her was too
much for Miss Crossley, who hurriedly retreated from the
room to give vent to her feelings. On several occasions
since she has essayed the task, but every attempt has
been a failure.
Perhaps if the old lady would pay 10s. admission
at the door, it would give a familiar air to the
proceedings and restore the great contralto’s
presence of mind.
A “PUSH" SOCIETY INTRODUCTION.
CIGARETTE CHARLIE: “My tart!—A bloke I know.”
Mr. G. W. F. Addison, just deceased
was the last of the old-time N.S.W. Gold Com-
missioners, his ancient colleagues, Whittingdal
Johnson and O’Malley Clarke, having passed away
a few years ago. Mr. Addison entered the public
service in 1857, Mr. Johnson in 1849, and Mr.
Clarke in 1854. There is but one N.S.W.
stipendiary on pension now, but a couple of
others are on leave preparatory to retiring.
Arthur Griffith, now a candidate for the
Senate, has resigned the secretaryship of N.S.W.
State Parliamentary Labor party after nearly ten
years’ service. Griffith went into Parliament
with the second batch of Laborites in 1894. There
were 14 besides him, and of them only Cann,
Macdonald and M‘Gowen are now in the House
and the party. Of the original 35 who were swept
in in 1891 only Cann and M‘Gowen have been
Laborites right through to the present. Neilsen,
who came in in 1898, on Mackay going to the
Legislative Council, succeeds Griffith as secretary.
“ G.H.” about a colored brother :
A West African negro, educated at Cambridge, and
intended originally to assist in spreading the Light, runs
a midnight pie-and-coffee stall in Sydney. The pie-
spreader’s vocabulary is ornate, for the educated savage
loves gaudy words even as the plain ditto likes furious-
tinted raiment; and occasionally his florid language
displeases customers. A bluejacket lurched into the
stall one night, and demanded something to eat in a loud
tone of Beer. Sambo nodded ; and, reaching for the
coffee-pot, said : “ Yes, sar, in precisely five seconds I
shall set before yoh such a feast as yoh will ever look
back upon in reminiscential delight.” The elaborate
phraseology angered the tar, who suspected a hidden
insult; and, heaving a chair at the University man, he
yelled : ‘‘Take thet! yer black, grinning grampus, and
see how you’ll ruminiscentilate ” —bash —bang—blanky—
blank ! Sambo carries less linguistic sail nowadays.
The Bulletin receivea this remarkable
contribution :
Wm. May, who died the other day at Sandford (Tas.),
aged 87, was Speaker of the House of Commons when
Disraeli made his maiden speech. He emigrated to S.A.
in ’39, and to the Flyspeck in ’7i, settling down to farm-
ing in the latter place.
Has Tasmania been getting enlarged head over
the idea that an ex-Speaker of the Commons was
growing cabbages in its midst? There was a famous
Erskine May who was clerk of the Commons, but
nobody of that name was Speaker either when
Disraeli entered Parliament or since. And the
ancient agriculturist must have been a boy of 21
when Disraeli made his first speech, and 23 when
he emigrated to S.A.
“ War E.” on “ Scotty the Wrinkler ” :
Beyond a doubt Phil Moubray’s inordinate love for a
dog or a cat hastened his end—he died under an opera-
tion for the removal of a hydatid cyst. As a raconteur
the “ Wrinkler” had few equals, and for hours by the
camp fire he could spin yarns drawn from every phase of
life in every continent. Once remarking on his possession
of a marvellous memory, he replied : “ It’s my curse ; I
wish I could forget everything.” From this and other
remarks I am inclined to think that Moubray, despite his
panegyrics on the bush and its freedom, often reflected
with sadness on a lost career. Scotty was a cynic, and
his pet aversion was the canting hypocrite and humbug.
As a democrat he has been accused of toadying to titles.
Wrong. Scotty was not the shallow-pated democrat who
refuses to see any good in a man who has had the mis-
fortune to be born into the “purple.” To the poor
Moubray was a practical friend, and many a one will miss
his timely aid. He had his weaknesses and failings.
Who hasn’t? But they only affected himself. His
peculiar pen-name, “ Scotty the Wrinkler,” was not ori-
ginal. Hearing an old Scotch shepherd on the ’Bidgee
who posed as an encyclopaedia of “wrinkles,” so desig-
nated, Moubray purchased the copyright of the name
there and then. A little mound of earth in the
Narandera cemetery now marks the remains of Philip
Moubrav, Imperial officer, Royal engineer, surveyor in
Abyssinia, deck hand on the Mississippi,tutor, journalist,
draughtsman, whaler, cook, rouseabout—in fact, every-
thing but a member of Parliament.
• Ex-Speaker Norton, of Queensland,
now dozing out his days in the Leg. Coun-
cil, has probably the State’s finest stock of
reminiscences. Born near Sydney just on
70 years ago, he was one of the very few
buslnnen of that time, or .any other time,
who kept a diary. In 1859-60 (the year
before he overlanded to Queensland to
finally settle there) he went out past
where Bourke now is, with one mate;
Dubbo was then the limit of settlement
in that direction, until the river coun-
try was reached. Afterwards, young Nor-
ton rode in to meet the first mail that was
delivered at Walgett; he remembers that
he had a 400-mile horseback ride for one
etter. Mr. Norton has a valuable store
of old letters, too, including some (copies)
describing the journey of the first free
family that travelled from Sydney to
Bathurst.
Even Max Hirsch's warmest ad-
mirers admit that the fussy, little, dark
satellite of Flinders Lane, in leaving Vic.
State Parliament to reach for a Federal
seat, is clawing at the shadow, with every
chance of losing the substance. Max
makes little headway with the masses.
The excitable little man, who dances with
frenzy and pours forth torrents of garbled
figures about Freetrade, to an agricultural
audience is a bore. His constant rain
of decimals sends the farmers to sleep.
The first things that a now pro-
minent Australian politician did when he
saw office ahead were to marry the girl and to take
a Presbyterian church pew.
t About two Crow-eater Judges :
Almost the only thing in common between the Chief-
Justice and the senior puisne Judge of S. Australia, is that
they are both 70 or thereabouts. Way, the Chief, is short
and has been chubby Boucaut is long and angular.
Way is full of compliments ; Boucaut hates them. Way,
a Methody parson’s son, still patronises tea-meetings and
bun-struggles; Boucaut, son of a sea-captain—well, he
doesn’t. Way got into Parliament one month, was
Attorney-General the next or thereabouts, and climbed
into the Chief’s chair before t'he year was out; Boucaut
was Attorney-General, Minister of Lands, Minister of
Works (twice), Treasurer, and Premier (three times)
before he consented to go up. Way still puts on an
extraordinary amount of frill, and every one of his
thoughts is tied up with 18in. of red-tape : Boucaut
wants to get through his work, and be off home to his
books (he reads all sorts of stuff) and his grandchildren.
A lawyer started the other day with a long opening
speech. “Don’t!” chopped out Boucaut. “Call your
evidence. I don’t want to hear it twice.” Later, when
the young advocate spoke softly—“ Speak up. Think
you’re a bullock-driver swearing at bullocks.” Which re-
calls that, even if a very prominent S. Australian, who
has been Acting-Governor several times, never drove
bullocks, his wife boasts that she used to be able to send
along a team with anybody.
THE LATEST CHAMPION.
Mr. Donald Macdonald, putting up for Corio (Reps.),
professes White Australia convictions, but is confronted
with the piebald sentiments he has contributed to the
Argus. At Drysdale he undertook to state his religious
platform. “.Baptised,", he said, "in the Presbyterian
Church, he had afterwards been attracted to both the
Church of England and the Roman Catholic Church, and
for 20 years had visited them all and assisted all without
favor or choice."
REID (to our pied Mac): "Here, take the belt!
your my master, you White-Black- Protestant-
Homan-Catholic-Presbyterian, you!”
“ G.H.” writes:
Met Tom Mann for the first successive time, the other
day. Bather liked the episode. Mann’s boss ambition
is to grow pumpkins and tomatoes and things—on the
co-operative system ; says 30 himself. Like many others,
and vice versa, he is a better speaker than a writer ; the
first page of his pamphlet, “The Labor Movement in
Both Hemispheres,” starting off with stereoed blather
anent reclaiming the interior Australian arid waste per
the old irrigation cure-all. Might as well try to reclaim
Sahara with a bottle of scent; and what’s the good, any-
way, of “ millions of acres, gloriously fertile ” (vide T.Jlij,
when the millions of inhabitants won’t get born to culti-
vate them, and if they do get born, won’t trouble to put
up a strong enough tariff-fence to keep foreign manufac-
turers from tramping everything flat? Tom Mann, l.y
the way, is at present forbidden to enter Germany,
France or Belgium, on pain of being decorated with the
X of the Legion of Honor or having the Emperor Bill’s'
poem read to him.


BsfJictMy
limited
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
photographic Supply
♦. . Stores __
Catalogues mailed on application.
375 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
And at Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
Hardy Brothers,
Vice-Regal Jewellers.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney;
118 Queen Street, Brisbane
(And at London).
Flexible
Bracelets
in the Latest London
Designs, set with Gems
of every description.
Write for Large ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
Goods forwarded to the country on
approval.
Fine GOLD CURB BRACELET, set with Six
Turquoise Clusters, 755.
Aboriginalities.
“ Myall ” writes :
Notwithstanding general denunciation of backblock
lands for purposes of closer settlement, there is a big
future before that portion of N.S.W. within the artesian
area—or at least there would have been had not nearly
all the land been locked up in improvement leases. In
Walgett district, this year, the crops are magnificent,
and a yield of from 30 to 40 bushels per acre is estimated.
One enterprising cocky expects to garner about 5000
bags, which will be shipped direct to Adelaide. Every
known cereal and fodder plant thrives wonderfully with
the aid of bore water.
This seems less convincing than it might be. The
fact that crops look beautiful in a year of very
respeotable rainfall doesn’t prove much for bore
water. Anyhow, in that same region 70 percent,
of the live stock have perished in five dry years,
and if bore water is going to save the country it
seems to have put up a very poor record. The dry
years are the ones in which the blessing of irriga-
tion should assert itself.
» * * *
The weather banshee still pursues the
demented cockie ! Just as the crops were topping
the fences an equinoctial squall swept northern
Victoria and laid the paddocks flat as bowling
greens. Then the scared cookies rushed in to the
blacksmiths and ordered them to cease scraping
the rust of three seasons past off their strippers,
as they were going to cut with up to-date reapers
and binders, which they sprinted to order on
Eternity bills. Then another storm came along
the reverse way, and lifted the crops up again,
and the implement orders had to be counter-
manded and the rust-scraping resumed.
“Nym.” : A striking example as to the
prolificness of the roach was to be seen in the
Yarra at Dight’s Falls (Abbotsford, Vic.) the
other week, when both sides of the river were
lined with excited people “jagging” for this
pretty little fish. They were in shoals making up
stream to spawn, as they do on the same day in
the second week of October every year. Their
progress being blocked by the falls they' fill the
river to overflowing, and one alleged angler (!)
jagged over 100 fish, weighing up to a pound-and-
a-quarter. Bait is of no use, even if the roach
were inclined to delay their business. The Yarra
roach were not turned into the muddy stream like
most of the other imported fish caught now and
again in the vicinity, notably salmon trout; they
were washed out of a pond in the old Cremorne
gardens at Richmond during a big flood years ago
along with some species of carp. The golden carp
are much in evidence (with brobdignagian eels),
floating dead in myriads during the periodical
poisonings that afflict the lower Yarra waters,
while black carp from the same source are caught
in the lagoons adjacent to the Yarra. After
spawning the roach shoals return to their haunts
in the deep holes in the stream around Abbotsford
and Kew, where they afford the languid angler a
dish occasionally.
* * » *
“Penguin”: Western Port (Victoria) is
the great meeting place of the mutton birds on
the mainland. Their date is on or about (gener-
ally on) the 15th November. The Schanck, Cape
Wollomai, and all the ocean front of Phillip
Island swarm with them. It would take millions
to count them. Melbourne confectioners send
down gangs of men to collect eggs, and local
fishermen get oil. Seize the bird by the neck
with one hand, strip the body down hard with
the other and the oil drips out. It is nasty work ;
so is schnapper fishing. As to eating, the man
who could tackle mutton bird in any form would
be fit to go south with Borchegrevink or to be
wrecked on a desert island. Tried them once
plain, once again with sauce. Sauce would silence
asafcetida, but it wouldn’t disguise mutton bird.
» * * *
“F.E.P.W.”: During the drought in
W.Q., sheep, in jumping to reach leaves of the
scrub, were often caught in the forks of the trees,
and died suspended there. Also, deaths of rains
occur fairly frequently from interlocking of their
horns. If not found and released, they die. By
the way, the resisting power of a ram’s head must
be very considerable. A knock on, or near, the
point of the horn I have found most effective in
separating the tied-up combatants.
HIS LAST CHANCE
OF NOT BECOM-
ING LONG PIG.
“ My friends, pause a
moment; have you
heard that in the country
where I come from swine fever
is raging? ”
“ T.P.0.” : In Ronald Macdonald’s book,
“Gum Boughs and Wattle Bloom ” (page 9), he
says: “Another fruit of fraudulent type growing
on the plains is the quandong.” Up this way
(S.W. Queensland) the quandong doesn’t grow on
the plains. It is not to be found on the east side
of the Maranoa and Balonne rivers, although the
soil and conditions in many spots east of those
rivers seem just as favorable for its growth as
where it grows plentifully, viz., the west side of
the Balonne. I have asked many whites and
blacks, but they couldn’t solve the problem.
What have we done to aggravate the fruit and
cause this aloofness ?
* * * *
“ Hix ” : Be odor of dead flying fox
(8., 16/5/’O3). Don’t know anything about this
carrion, but once had to shift camp into next
gully on account of having left flayed carcase of
platypus on deck near tents. Phew!
¥ * * *
“Nymsie” : Be the pelican’s nest, A. J.
Campbell’s book on Australian birds says :
Nest. —Almost flat, and about ISin. across ; roughly
constructed of dry herbage, etc. In some instances the
nest is merely a slight hollow scraped in the ground ;
placed in a small rookery on the highest part of small
islands at sea, or in a lake.
Eggs.—Clutch, two to three; elliptical in shape;
texture of shell coarse ; surface glossy ; color, white,
with a thick coating (sometimes smooth, in other in-
stances rough) of lime.
“ Paddy Melon ” : Have often
noticed that rabbits are of a very excitable
temperament. At hare-drives have seen
them when surrounded by horses, dogs,
and howling cookies, become utterly be-
wildered—so bewildered as to be powerless
to seek safety in flight. Have often dis-
mounted and caught them when in this
condition. Self and three mates were
shooting at Shookaroo (N.S.W.) some time
ago. Rabbits were there in droves. Had
just “potted” a duck and several rabbits
from tne one standing position. Mates
were also shooting in every direction, and
the dogs were playing havoc among the
bunnies. Just then I observed a black
rabbit, apparently overcome with fear,
hiding under a log. Sneaked up, rested
my gun against the log, and cautiously
locating the exact position of the quarry,
made a grab. Bunny still made no effort
to escape. From appearances he had been
dead about a month. Believe, though,
that he had simply become decomposed
with terror as I came up.
* * • *
Who said there is no humor in
Australians? In western N.S.W., where
rain is a phenomenon of as frequent occur-
rence as a solar eclipse, guide-posts have
been placed across the creek-beds on the
coach routes, to direct drivers in times of
flood. Also, Government has employed
men (generally some sort of relation to the
sitting M.P.) to dig trenches and build
embankments alongside the roads to keep
back the water. In turn the water becomes
sarcastic and washes away guide - posts,
gutters, embankments, and roads. The
coach-driver then makes a new road for
himself, and the “maintenance man”
puts up more posts, digs more trenches,
&c. For the money spent in getting these roads
ready to be washed away a really good, durable
road could be imported from Germany or some
such place. Then we could at least boast about
the increase of our commerce.
* * * *
“ Polstan ” : Things are looking up in the
Vic. Mallee. During a recent two weeks no fewer
than 32 pianos arrived in Nhill. Nhill, with its
fires, its dust, its cloggy mud, its utter desolation,
and its sixpenny beer—and 32 pianos on top of
all. Irvine calls the residents of Nhill “bis own
people,” and, alas ! they look like it.
The wholesale destruction of the tui is
causing a sentimental outburst in Maonland in
favor of the preservation of the species. Press
prominence is being given to the fact that the tui,
which is now supposed to be protected by law,
should be fenced round, so to speak, with a hedge
of sentiment, so that, as is the case in England
with the robin redbreast, even the small boy won’t
touch it. The tui should be invested with an air
of sanctity. But the trouble is that the stodgy,
greasy Maori has no sentiment worth mentioning,
and would cheerfully boil an angel for breakfast if
he could get one. He is the principal and worst
slayer of the tui.
• * * *
A queer-looking skeleton of something or
other, 40ft. in length, and, judging by the ribs,
about lift, in girth, was lately happened on by a
M.L. survey party near Opotiki while hunting
wild pork. That’s the party’s yarn, anyway. A
big brother of the mythical taniwha or kumi
probably, or a sea-serpent that got bushed.
* * * *
“A.F.P.” : We came part of the way here
(Mackay, Q.) with a cedar-getter’s team. Team-
ster shot a doe kangaroo with two young ones on
one teat. Any Bulletin reader heard of the like ?
BARRISTER W. M. HUGHES, Labor member of
the Australian House of Representatives.
“ J.C.” : Mutton-birds’ eggs are very much
like the eggs of the common or farmyard duck,
only a sharper oval in shape, and the shell is
almost transparent. They are not nice boiled,
but are all right disguised in an omelet or fried
with bacon, as many . boarding-house keepers
know. The mutton-bird thoughtfully lays its
egg on the 25th of November (it also lays it on
Phillip 1.-land and other places), in good time for
the Christmas cooking ; and the Melbourne con-
fectioner seizes the opportunity, likewise the
eggs, for Christmas comes but once a year, and
so does the mutton-bird.
• * * *
“D.H.R.” : Thus a witness in a recent
cattle case at a Western N.S.W. town :—“ Have
been working for Mr. nine months. Know
the heifer in dispute. Know it is 15 months old
by size of it. Can swear Mr. never sold any
cattle. Can’t swear Mr. - never sold any
cattle. Know heifer is Mr. ’s because
I know it is (repeated 17 times). Don’t know
that heifer is Mr. ’s. Know most of Mr.
’a cattle. Don’t know most of Mr. - ——’s
cattle. Can swear that bull broke fence. Can’t
swear bull broke fence. Can swear Mr.
never sold you (lawyer) the heifer in dispute
before I came here. Can’t swear Mr. never
sold heifer before I came here” (another three
columns). After this, what is evidence ?
• * * •
“ R.S.” from a wheat-growing district:
What a weedy-looking lot of miserable wretches the
harvest-wearies are that hang out around this quarter
lookingforwork
(?) this season.
Looks as if the
drought and
lack of needful
moisture had
caused the old-
timers toshrivel
to half their
usual dimen-
sions, and had
aged them con-
siderably in the
process. How
these unfortu -
nates are going
to get through
a day’s work in
the sun puzzles
me it takes
most of them all
they can do to
move along.
Soon all the
harvesting,
from paddock to
train, will have
to be done by
lab or - sa vinjg
machinery.
Tanglefoot and
the climate are
surely knocking
the genus Aomoout.
ARTHUR GRIFFITH—the Labor
candidate for the Senate in
N.S.W.—a sound radical and
of the right fiscal faith.
Photo, by Cecil Studios, Sydney.
The Acting-Administrator of Papua, in a
despatch to Premier Barton, writes interestingly
of the ape like Ahgaiambo tribe, who, for longer
than even native tradition wots of, have lived on
the fringe of a morass on the left bank of the
Musa river. Thick-necked, deep-chested, long-
armed, those people have lower limbs of utterly
disproportionate smallness —centuries of marsh-
dwelling have almost deprived them of the power
of walking. Feet are short and broad, very thin and
flat; toes long and slight, standing out rigidly
from the feet, as if jointless. When placed on the
ground the feet look like nothing so much as
wooden feet, and the whole app< irance of the
native is eminently ape-like. Tribe moves about
in small canoes; houses are built on piles 12ft.
high, and the food consists of wild-fowl, fish, sago,
and marsh plants. Their dead are placed on
small platforms roofed with rude matting.
M'JUMBUCK’S CHRISTMAS PARTY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was on M'Jumbuck’s station, Christmas nineteen-fifty-
three,
In as fine a part of Queensland as a man would wish
to see.
Old M'Jumbuck was a squatter who would treat his
station hands
Like a white man ; and they loved him, and were faithful
to commands.
Don’t forget that it was Christmas—Christmas nineteen-
fifty-three,
And M'Jumbuck’s men and others had foregathered for a
spree.
They awoke on Christmas morning from a sound and
heavy sleep,
And the snow lay crisp and even and some sixteen inches
deep I
But they troubled not in Queensland (not in nineteen-
fifty-three)
For heavy frost at Christmas was a thing they’d looked
to see !
Why, it didn’t seem like Christmas then, without a fall of
snow.
And the robin-redbreasts tapping on the window-panes
you know 1
Did those hardy Queensland bushmen fear the snow and
dread the cold ?
No, for they were reared in Queensland and acquaintance
made t hem bold 1
Yet, they’d heard from Daddy Hardface many a yarn and
many a rhyme
Of the very sultry weather there was once at Christmas
time.
Well, it was a gorgeous Christmas and a truly gorgeous
spread,
Sixty people at the table, with M'Jumbuck at their head.
It was just to please M'Jumbuck and to send the ball
along
That old Hardface (when the toasts were reached) arose
and sang this song :
“ I remember, well remember,
Though the time has long gone by,
When Australia’s bright December
Was much warmer than July !
“ Though, of course, you won’t believe me,
And the statement seems absurd ;
If my memory don’t deceive me
Christmas picnics once occurred !
“ I remember, well remember,”
Went on Hardface, looking up,
“ ’Twas a very hot November
When The Victory won the Cup.
“ But the next year (now I time it
That was nineteen-nought-and-three)
Brought the change in this here climate
Which at present you can see.
“ It was loyalty that planted
All the changes which have come.
The Australian climate wanted
To be just the same as ’Ome ! ”
Here old Hardface poked the fire,
And they said the belt he’d won,
As the most accomplished liar
On M'Jumbuck’s Queensland run !
But M’Jumbuck told his bushman ’twas the truth old
Hardface told,
That the Christmas came in summer in the curious days
of old.
’Twas his personal opinion that the vital change was
made
Through Australia’s loyal climate and through preferen-
tial trade!
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


m
m
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A CURE FOR KIDNEY AND BLADDER TROUBLES.
CHAMBERLAIN’S PAIN BALM
Promptly applied to a sprain before inflammation
sets in, ensures a cure in about one-third of the
time otherwise required. One application gives
relief. Is. 6d, everywhere.*
FACTORY
TO WEARER.
We make these Rings ourselves—in
premises specially built by us.
Ten years since we erected them.
Making them saves buyers 27J per
cent, duties.
The Pearls are whole—direct from Fisheries. We save
there, too—no intermediate profits.
We only make 18ct. Rings.
Our Reputation affects our income. We can’t afford to
sell inferior goods.
Choice Whole Pearl
Bing:, £5.
Hflnnnn
fig
3 Choice Pearls,
2 Diamonds,
2 Turquoises,
£3.
Choice Fire Opals,
set round with
Olivines, £8 ;
smaller sizes, £5.
Strictly Cash
London Prices
Plain Figures
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street*
Forthefirsttime, N.S.W.
Forestry Department lately
made an attempt to prepare
a timber map of the State.
It divides the territory into
five zones—the coastal, the
highlands, the zone of brush
timber, the interior, and the
timberless. The timberless
part, which includes every-
thing west of an irregular line
drawn from Angledool on the
north to Balranald on the
south, includes about 40 per
cent, of the whole of N.S.W.
For its area, the brush-timber
district, which takes in the
middle reaches of the northern
rivers, contains by far the
greatest number of timber
trees ; Moreton Bay pine, red
cedar, silky oak, rosewood,
red bean, black bean, bogum-
bogum, beefwood, cudgerie,
white beech, tulipwood and
sassafras grow in the same
neighborhood. The ironbark
is the most widely distributed;
it grows practically wherever
timber _ grows in N.S.W.,
except in the extreme south,
part of the Riverina, and
the brush-timber district.
Stringybark takes second
place; but it does not grow
along the coast to the north
of Newcastle, and it is rarer
also along the western rivers.
Outside the brush-timber dis-
trict there are only three
varieties growing to any ex-
tent which are not eucalypts—
the turpentine, the brush-box,
and the cypress pine. Botani-
cally, of course, the blackbutt,
tallow-wood, red mahogany,
messmate, mountain ash,
blood wood, and woolly-butt,
as well as all the gums—blue,
grey, spotted, and red—and
all the boxes except the brush
box, are eucalypts.
More “farmers’ monomania.” A Gipps-
land settler thus gets back on an unpaternal
Government by advt. in Melbourne Age ;
JJOAD BLOCKING, NEERIM TOWNSHIP.
For Chief of Victorian Police Department, Mel-
bourne, as against Shire Council of Buln Buln, if it be
concerned, and road blockers and their sympathisers.
—ln a public matter police protection was asked for,
and payment offered. The only apparent answer has
been—An effigy was hung fronting this house with
slanderous scrawl attached, aimed at me. The house
was stoned, and gunpowder exploded against it.
And the slip panels have been repeatedly thrown
down, thus throwing the paddock open to the public.
Neerim, Gippsland,
13th November, 1903.
TOO ESTHETIC.
THE PAKEHA LADY : “ Well, Mrs. Taipara, and
how is your daughter getting on at the
college? ”
THE MAORI LADY: “Oh, I tink not much; I
tink kool no goot, she get too prout. She no
let te pig sleep in te whare now"
The Australian kid takes to the track
early. One of him, aged 3| years, was discovered
15 miles from home in the Goulburn district,
t’other day; he had done the distance in two days.
When found, he was peacefully sleeping beside a
stump, none the worse for his exposure. That
was his second turn “on the wallaby,” too.
A SLOW ROAD.
PEDESTRIAN : “ Where does this road take me, my man? ”
SWAGGIE: “ You’ll do a bloomin’ perish, mister, if yer wait fer
this road to take you anywhere."
“ The Myrtle ” swears to this :
Know of an emu at Tungamull (0.Q.). Taken there as
a.chick some years ago, it has grown to be a fine, stately
bird, able to hold its own in the station yards. When
the drought was at its worst the vicissitudes to which
birds and beasts with all their senses were exposed were
very trying, but those of an old blind horse were
extreme. There was only one little hole on a wide area
of country where the horse could get water, and for
weeks while the drought continued the emu led it there
as its necessities demanded. It also guided the steed
about the bush, warning it in intelligible language of
fallen trees, and even leading it to where food was to be
had. Since the rain, the bird has somewhat relaxed its
attentions.
* * * •
“ Ed.” : A farmer in the Western District
(Vie.) was always troubled by one crow which
stood by while he milked.
One cow had a sore on the
udder; to soften this he
brought every morn-
ing a small piece of
lard and placed it
on a post, intending
on apply it after
milking. The
crow regularly
swooped down
and flew off
with the
lard, spite of
the dog sent
to scare it.
To get even
with the
crow, the far-
mer brought
out a piece of
fat sprinkled
with strych-
nine and
placed it as
usual. The
crow swoop-
ed down and
flew off with
it, the dog
folio win g.
Getting to a
tree the
crow found
the fat not
so agreeable
as usual, and
threw it
down to the
dog; the dog
swallowed
it, came
back to the milking
shed, turned three
somersaults, and rolled over. The
orow came back, and looked on well satisfied
with the dog’s capers, but he never called again.
There is something demoniao about the intelli-
gence of a crow.
* * * »
Passengers on the Tumut-Cootamundra
(N.S.W.) line, the other day, had their train held
up by caterpillars. The pe3t swarmed across the
rails in overwhelming numbers, and the wheels,
after crushing through the mass for a considerable
distance, became so greasy that they would not
“bite.” Sweeping was tried, and the sand-boxes
were freely used by the driver, but the wheels
still flew round whilst the train stood still.
Meanwhile, the caterpillars swarmed into the
carriages, and walked in a horrible green fashion
over the passengers. Finally, bagging was tied to
the cow-catcher, so as to sweep the rails before
the front wheels, and, getting a start by this
means and the use of sand, the train ploughed
slowly through, and went away 40 minutes late
and covered with caterpillars.
• • • *
“Glenara”: Reports from the Victorian
Mallee show that the much-dreaded rust has
taken a big hold on the wheat crops, and is likely
to lessen considerably the mighty yield that the
Melbourne press has proclaimed as “assured.”
On Tyrell Downs some thousands of acres will
give Only three dr four bushels per acre instead of
the predicted four bags. Something seems to be
always striking the Mallee with a blighting biff,
and that portion of “our vast natural resources”
hangs like a never-lifted dust-box round Victoria’s
neck. John West and J. L. Dow and various
other ink-bottle farmers talk about “saving the
Mallee,” but the aforesaid Mallee is like a
Chinaman : what good is it when it is saved ?
* • * •
4 4 Deeby ” : Sleeping out on hot summer
nights in the west the mosquitoes, ants, centi-
pedes, scorpions, and—in lignum country—snakes,
made life a perfect hell till I hit on the device of
sleeping in a large calico bag drawn well over the
head. The relief and safety afforded by this
simple wrinkle are simply heavenly. It once
afforded me protection from a much larger enemy
than the usual bush night-pest. Sleeping one
night on a plain near the Merri-Merri I was
awakened by feeling a warm blast of air coming
on my head through the mouth of my sleeping-
bag. Instantly I sat up, and the largest wild boar
I ever saw fairly collapsed with fright. He left
off breathing on me and fled for all he was worth
across the moonlit plain, and till the distance
swallowed him up he was still putting up all the
record there was in him.
WATTLE BARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O glad bush, gay with golden sprays
Whose sweet breath fills the breeze;
Grey winter’s gone, and warm spring days
With new sap glads the trees.
The magpie’s chiming joyously
Unto its friend the lark ;
And men and boys go gladly forth
To strip the wattle bark.
Our cash is short, so’s flour and tea,
And Daisy wants a dress,
And summer clothes would welcome bo
To mum and Jim and Jess.
There’s thirteen hours good daylight now
From early morn till dark,
We’ll soon financial be again
By stripping wattle bark.
So grind the axes up with care,
Bring out the strap and chain,
None knows what lies before us ere
The wattle strips again.
But work and love and life are good,—
Who dreams of care and cark
On dewy mornings when we go
A-stripping wattle bark ?
VIC.
ALONE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) ttrill be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case r® contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Lima: Verses declined O. : “Mirage”
and “Woman” both very scrappy H.O. :
“Memories” not nearly good enough....Bandar: We
don’t acknowledge pars. Space won’t allow. If they
didn’t appear they were unsuitable.. ..8.J.: Not quite
good enough, yet not very bad. Don’t lose hope, or
commit suicide, or anything like that P.O.M. : Many
thanks for letter W.W.: Will print “Old Gir1.”....
Wilga: Par accepted.. ..W. Satchell : Please send full
address to Bulletin accountant. O.L.D. : “Little Bit
Afraid” is good idea, but not good enough verse....
E.E.M. : Transvaal Yolksraad consisted of two Houses,
each of 27 members. The Upper House was elected by
first-class burghers (Boers, and foreigners who had served
in the Boer army, and any other foreigners who might be
admitted by the Volksraad). Naturalised foreigners had
a vote for the Lower House (naturalisation being allowed
after two years’ residence and payment of £2). Britain
has also a Parliament of two Houses. No foreigner, even
if naturalised, can qualify for Britain’s Upper House, but
a naturalised foreigner may get a vote for the British
Lower House. Naturalisation in England requires five
years’ residence, proof of an intention to remain
in British territory, and payment of JE6
Gerald B.: Very dull and prosy.”. Larry: We pay for
what we accept. Matter good, but would need much
condensation. Sketches not near Bulletin mark....
The Battler: Both rather good stuff, but much too long.
....Alces: You tried to climb too high, and came down
with an awful thump Jas. B.: Bulletin is tired of
stating that it doesn’t acknowledge receipt of pars.
Would need a whole page to do it in... .F.N.W.: Please
send address.... Royal B.: Better consult a doctor.
Chloral hydrate is a risky thing to monkey with... .H.T. :
Too implicative and inferential. Only a master of
language could safely leave so much to the imagination.
....Lagopus: You couldn’t get the gem engraved in
Sydney. There is a man in Melbourne who does that
kind of work, but we don’t know his name... .Dabber :
Hardly “go” enough for that class of sketch F.E.P.W.:
Not enough in it for print Long L.: Yes—too long by
half!... Poddy: Confusion arises from the fact that,
though the moose is the “ elk ” of zoology, the latter
term is, in North America, applied exclusively to the
wapiti deer Jimmy D.: You’ve apparently “got
’em again.” The Bulletin certainly never printed
such piffle....Wanganui: It would be a good poem
if your metre-machine didn’t jerk so erratically
O. Mac. : Hardly good enough Rita S. : Verse inferior.
“ Biff,” good idea, not well enough handled Damian :
Made us say the first half of your name with great
energy.. . .C.N.F. : Better if there were less of it.
Better still if there were none of it! Halka: Yarn
creeps cautiously along till it suddenly falls over a
precipice and is lost Fred E. : Like unto the .banging
of kerosene-tins... .Chris W. : Faint gleams of humor
against a. background of weary verbiage... .Hurdles :
After minute examination, discovered that it was
intended for a poem W.T.E. : You haven’t altered our^
opinion in the slightest Soapy Sam: You hope we
will “ re-write it, if necessary.” It’s very necessary ; but
why in thunder should we re-write it!....Jim D. : A
feeble finish. Great is the Art of Leaving-off!
Racey S. : Follows too closely the conventional way of
writing about savage peoples. Not without promise,
though... .W.J.W. : Not quite good enough. Don’t
remember the verses. We pay for all accepted matter
....Snip: Couldn’t print that on your mere say-so. ..
Ophir : No use for dream-discoveries.. ..J.A. : Not
interest enough for the space.. ..Barney: Only faintly
funny....W.0.8.: Stiff and clumsy Val J. :No vigor
or vitality... .Geo. B.: Long introduction ; insignificant
ending—Aurelia: Too much verbal embroidery. Sucb
a subject calls for strong, straight, simple treatment
T.G.: Brainless balderdash, dressed in magniloquent
language.... Spica: Has pathos in it, and some
grip, but you grievously lack skill H. D. :
Thanks for good wishes, but verses have little
merit....G.R.: Not quite good enough....E.T. : Only
tolerable. Theme too conventional Fusbos : Its only
merit is that there isn’t mucb of it.... D.E. : Its neither
rhyme nor reason.. ..Vulcanite : All bad, except the last
verse—and that’s very bad.... Sid O. : “Violin” has
broken a string —J.B. : Less said about that harvest
poem the better.. ..Warrigal: “Tote” too crude....
G. Elburg : Thanks for letter. ...O. O’H. : That joke also
happened in England long ago, and London Punch pub*
lished it Magnet: Don’t care much for “Heathen.”
R.F.G. : Matter was dealt with, and in type, before
your item arrived F. : But “the canting old father in
the Manxman ’" wasn’t “ called Peter Quilliam." He
was called Caisar Cregeen....G. O. O’B. : Your letter
arrived too late to allow of an answer in time....
Ishmael: Most of it been said before. It’s one of the
sorrows of our life to have to refuse good matter for the
mere reason that we've said about the same thing our-
selves.. ..Magpie: “Beloved” runs on too hackneyed
lines altogether; strive at something fresh... .Verandah :
Rather approve of your suggestion that fumigation-
stations should be set up in public places to disinfect
women’s trailing skirts before they enter houses....
P.M.: Just nice album verse and no more Micky W. :
Not enough “ fat ”in your story J.R.T. : No, they are
not related.... Hamlet: In England a special copyright
has to be taken out against dramatisation ; the law here
is very uncertain on the subject R.T.: Rowing
“pome" goes too 510w1y.... Andys: Well-written, but
your orthography stands greatly in need of repairs.
Seven blunders in a couple of pages; and all over com-
mon words Tarantula: Sorry can’t useit....F.H.B. :
Both have merit, but not enough Hiphen : Too long-
winded, and some of the improbabilities are too violent.
.... Beta Mark : Verse very lame and awkward. Prose-
sketch better W.H.1.: But it wasn’t Buckley who had
the choice—it was Hobson. Buckley was the man that they
wanted to know who struck him (excuse entanglement).
Ku-Klux: “ Decaying " too steep J.M. (Chillagoe):
Great waste of paper Mrs. Hamilton Grey: Insuf-
ficiently stamped circular received... .H.M.: Can’t quite
decide whether “ Jilted ” is the worst poem on record or
a streak of genius. Anyhow, it cost id. short postage
Unsuitable: 5.5.0., R.W.
TO ARTISTIC) (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.B. : Did you seriously imagine that sketch would be
inserted? Zevern : Almost identical idea been used
already Koy: Unsuitable A.W.: Both too scratchy.
No finish W.G. : Four rejected. Drawings show lack
of care. Jokes not up Gord. C.: Sawyers Valley old
joke. Used to be Sawyers’ Bay outside Dunedin, M.L.,
and became so weary a chestnut that the Railway
Department changed name to Glendermid. Other not
sufficiently striking.. ..Kay : Quite impossible.. ..Alien :
Rather hidden joke.
Arthur Griffith, the Labor candidate for
the Senate in N.S.W., was, as a member of the
N.S.W. Assembly, accused in different quarters
of being the extremest Radical and the best-
dressed man in the Chamber. A big. forcible
figure, Griffith is cut out for public life, but
wasted many years as a teacher at Sydney
Grammar School, the most fashionable of the
Sydney seminaries. Even there his radical views
profoundly shocked the judicial set from which he
Sprang; since he has been in Parliament that set
views him with utter horror. Griffith’s return
would raise the intellectual average of the Senate
appreciably and retain for N.S.W. at least one
real man in its representation.
ALICE WICKHAM , a lightning swimmer.
Photo, by W Johnson, Sydney.
A few months ago one of the unfinished
works of the Victorian Government was brought
prominently under public notice by establishing a
record in the way of small-boy killing. In con-
nection with the Yarra improvement scheme an
open excavation 30ft. deep and half full of water
was left. When three lives were lost in five days
the Government decided to do something, and
enclosed the water-hole with wire netting through
which only a very thin small boy could make his
way. Small boy mortality was thus checked, but
stagnant water soon developed smells. The
netting which kept the small boy out was unequal
to the task of keeping the microbe in, and resi-
dents in the vicinity are urging the Bent depart-
ment to either complete the work or fill the
cesspool in. But the Irvine Government isn’t
worrying. It is used to smells.
The best Yuletide greeting to send to
friends in other lands will be the Christmas
number of Thb Bulletin, to be issued on
December 10th. In its pages will be found the
best presentation of Australian life and thought
ever issued, and no effort has been spared to make
it the best Christmas number up to date.


• N<}’v, 1 would ask them to bring their
minds b;ick to the presents 1 am a modem
Eve. (Loud laughter). I offer you ap
jipplo- (laughter).—but an apple of a dif-
ferent kind—the apple of harmony the
idea of a woman going, into Parliament.
- Miss Vida Goldstein addressing the
electors.
“Most determined efforts are to bo mallei
to suppress nil further riotous demonstra-
Hops.on theSnjrt of the Chinese strikers.
The Same Old Appeal J
for an apple Eve was cast out pf paraj
die,. She offers an apple Wo
again. Will Adam take the bait. j
r —' infexje-re. ,
tW ClimUe G^uestVor*.
to be in 3
\tdi r w<w ot~selflin
1 hfailf."
The second important provision was
that which fixed the maximum limit t,o be
paid annually ■■'on old-age pensions at.
£150,000. It was sentimental moon-
shine to say that these grants were any
thing else but charity." —lrvine.
Adulterated Sweets.
Dawvid (the adulterator) —"One canna
bo sure, but I'm thin-kin’ a change o'
diet wad be verra welcome to Meoster
Irvine the noo "
£^-i t6 c 7a,^r a r
*'uhn Objoct win f,a Usßea e t'i llr(iiat > ia n
' nit • Mu' 11 t b ; lt «» dose”
fieri a Way
The Financial Times, commenting on the f
final results of the Victorian loan conver- t
sion of £5,000,000 debentures, declares j
that Victoria has ■* rounded ap awkward i
corner fairly well."
" The movement organised to secure
bible teaching in State schools is being
vigorously pressed forward under clerical
direction, and there is a determination
shown to make the issueone of prominence
at the forthcoming general election. .
It would mean the destruction of the
l national system which the State has estab-
lished at heavy cost.'-W.cm/er.
The liiblrt in State Schools.
Tin: Ci.kiikwl Party.—" Yea, verily, it is
tlie heartfelt desire of every tcrew
kerecstian man to bust up this God-
less system."
CABBAGE-GARDENISMS.


•'You put a penny in tliei
slot and the figure says ‘ lie }
• duction of Members’.”
“And what if it loses
that slot? ”
“Well, f don’ t know , the
figure will then rely on its
beauty.”
t^hirTthTTres^t'
I importing party, which has of late been imnlvim'
!in a vague sort of way, that unless its calico is]
.allowed to come in free the cause of Protestantism.
:'?J, be iosfc ' 11 has nevei ' forgotten that William]
ot Orange was imported. i
John She (to the people) :
“ Look here ; I believe
in the Referendum. In
this matter of the re-
duction of members I
give you absolute free-
dom to vote for the
Y/ number I want. The
Jr/ number I' don’t want
I / won’t be put on the i
/ ballot paper.” *
“ Yes, that’s my ‘ Yes-No ' library. I
got it together myself. It contains
Mn Reid’s attitude for and against all i
subjects under the son.*'
The Iloyal Arthur ended t ith)
visit to Hobson’s Bay yester*.
day, and hoisted the Blue Peter.'
•jfor '•
daily paper
LEADER (ANY DAY) ILLUSTRATED
This is poor little N.S.W., and this the great
Victoria coming to “ oppress .
POLITICS, MARTYRS, YES-NOES, &c.


A. SAUNDERS, SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVERS,
Full Jewelled, |-plate,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s. £4, and £4 10s.
In Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10a,
10 guineas, £l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Three-bar Gold Buckle BROOCH, 20a.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two-bar Floral, with Diamond. Blue, or Red
Stone, BROOCH, 22a 6d.
„ A. SAUNDERS.
Twist Bar, with Bow and Heart, Gold BROOCH,
6s 6d ; with Amethyst Heart, 7s Bd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Carved Gold BROOCH, with Opal Centre, 20b.
m
Ladies’ Curb CHATIO
Gold Snap Padlook, 25a,
30s, 85», £2 ss, £3 ; 150 t.,
£2los, £3, £4, £4 10s, £S,
£6, £7 10a, £B, £lO.
lOb extra
for
Key Padlock.
All With Safety rihai,.
Diamond BRACELET, 18 carat Gold, Three Pure Double-out Diamonds,
with Safety Chain, £8; Diamond and Two Rubies, £4.
Peace-offering Bird Dub BROOCHES, with Enamelled Olive Leaf,
17s (id; 16 carat Gold, 265.
A. SAUNTERS.
Very Pretty Gold BBACELET, Diamond, Rea, or Bine Stones,
£2 10b ; 15ct. Gold, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRAOELETS. All the Styles. Prioes according
to width. 25a, 30b, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10a ; 15ot. Gold,
£3, £4, £5, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Band Name BRACELET, in Three Sizes, 255, 80s, aM
above, and 40s wider; 15ct Gold, £B, £Bloa, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
ADD ARTICDES POST FREE.
Watoh Repairs Guaranteed. Silver H untin| Keyle«*,
255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3. Solid Gold Keyless. £2, £3, .£4,
’"‘SS’SS&&&?**
Sil-
ver,
£2.
■W
PIOO
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ot. Two Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut,
BROOCH, £2; with Ruby, 365.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Diamond Out Amethyst
BROOCH, 20*.
d
A. SAUNDERS.
Large Siao Three Bar Amethyst BROOCH,
265; 16 Carat Gold, Amethyst, 455.
A. SAUNDERB.
Solid Gold Pearl Set Twin Love Liras,
BKOOOH, Red Stone Centre. 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold Two Bar Opal and Four Din mood
BROOCH, £2 10s. Very Effective.
FULL SIZE
A. SAUNDERS.
Three Bar Solid Gold Pearl and Red Stone Scroll
BROOCH, 21a.
A. SAUNDERS. A _
Gold Buttloaxe and Shield BROOCH, Very Neat and
Effective, Pearl Set •with. Gem, 20s.
A. SAUNDERB.
Gold Mounted Tusk BROOCH. Cham and Bell,
15s 6d. Very Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Einiahed, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with
Pure Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight £3
10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance
£4los, £5, £3 10s, £6, £7, £8 : ’
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Key, j
£3 los.
Keyless,
£5,
•A.. R A TTNDET? S
Strong Reliable WATERBURY WATCHES.
-Long Wind, 8s 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10b ;
New Model. G-, 13s 6d ;
Extra Quality, J-plate, 18s 6d and JBI.
Silver, 85s ;
Gold, £2 15s.
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
Free-
trade
Prices.
•80TOA
■FT
OH
A. SAUNDERS.
(Jnrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
Solid Silver, 35s ; Double Case, 22.
A Written Guarantee Given with Each
Watch.
20s.
20s.
N
mi
** FLY BACK CHBO N OMETERS. ’
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel or Black,
Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ; same as above, £3 10s ;
Split Seconds, £3 10s. Pure Solid Silver, as above,
£5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25,
and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,8, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Black or
Nickel,
£3 10s,
Silver,
£5.
Solid
Silver, I
£2 10s
A. SAUNDEES.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting- Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 6s
Solid. Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10b,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
8,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Gold
Cased,
M 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal BAND
17s 6d ;
Three Opals, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold. 30s;
Three Opals, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold Pure Double
Cut Diamond,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Three Red
or Blue Stones,
Double Cut, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Band RINGS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d,
15s ; 15et. Gold,
20s, 255; 18ct. Gold 255,
30s, 355, £2.
Any name free.
A. BATJNOERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Double
Cut Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£3 10s £4, £4 10s ;
Five Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, Pure
Double Cut Diamond,
Pure Rubies
or Sapphire, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, Two Hearts,
Diamond and Ruby,
35s ;
Two Diamonds, £2 ss.
Latest Style.
Gold Mizpah
CHARM,
4s 6d.
Pearl Cluster
Heart, 15s 6d ;
■with Four
Diamond, Ruby,
or Sapphire, 255.
15ot. Gold Heart,
Double Cut
Diamond. 30s, 40s;
Euby or SaDphire,
255.
Gold Envelope
CHARM, 12s 6d ;
name free, with slip
inside, 15s 6d.
Good Friendship
Gold CHAKM,
10s 6d ; with Erin-
Go-Bragh, 10s 6d.
Gold Amethyst and
Pearl Heart
CHAKM. 10s 6d;
larger, 15s and 20s.
Gent.’s Solid Gold Front STUDS, 3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d each.
a . SAUNDERS.
Hand-Made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9ct. Sjlid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 30s 6d each ;
15ct. Gold, 15s j Extra Heavy, ‘2ss ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ;
Extra Heavy, 30s, 355, 40s.
Quality of Gold and Finish First Class.
A. SAUNDERS.
Signet Plain RING, 9ct. Gold,
20s, 255; loot. Gold, 30s, 35s ;
IBct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Hand-Made Solid Gold MUFTS,
9ct. Solid Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4 ;
15ct. Gold, £4 10s, £5, £6, £6 10s,
to £lO. Price According to
Thickness and Quality of Gold.
Photo Pendants
Hew Gold Photo. CHARMS,
9 ct. 10s 6d, 15s, 20s ;
loot., 15s6d, 255, 30s, 40s.
Gent.’s 9ct. Solid Gold Amethyst
RING, 25s ;
15ct. Solid Gold, £2, £2 10s
9ot. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
80s ; 15ct. Gold, £2 10s,
Extra Strong.
9ct. Gold Heart LINKS, I2a
6d ; 15ct. Gold, 255.
£
m
Beautifully Cl od rot. Gold
Large Size f ,sve LINKS.
22s 6d; Pl» -’is; or with
initials nicf crm.-ed, 22s Sd;
15 Gold £2 ;
. ..VI 1. 4s lid.
23St- Gold Buckle, DiamGsS
and .’wo Rubies or
‘ .ppliiies, £2 10s ;
lijue Diamonds, £4.
A. SATJNDEBS.
Two Diamond Sparks
and Red Stone,
15ct. Gold, 30a.
J ItlATTWDiStii&o
18ot. Gold,
is’oar I )iamon3'j,
with Three Rubieafe
L„pphires, or Opals,
10b. £4 10.,. £5, m.
Price to Size of
Diamonds.
m
18ot. Solid Gold
Two Hearts,
Ofials, Three Pure
Double Cut
Diamonds, £4lO
Qaad RINGS*
witli Maine,
Sat. Solid Gold,
12s 6d, 15s;
15ot. Gold, 20s, 25fs;
ISot. Gold, 255, 80s,
355, £2.
Ml
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Half Hoop,
Hive Double Out
Diamonds, RING, £5;
Larger Diamonds,
£6, £7 10s, £8 £lO,
£lt>, £2O.
&, BATCTDEBS.
@old, Pearls end
Turquoise, 15s!
Other Styles, ££-j,
mm
£.. SOUNDERS.
’Rrt. Solid Gold,
Tfi.inmnd and Two
I ,'iie or SapDhiree,
£2 10s :
rj3 L umcS-dJ. £r?-
/*_. SAUNDERS.
Ost Gold Double
Buckle IT-Odj
15et. Gold, 30s;
18et. Gold, £?,
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 *3EORGE“STREET
NEARLY OPPOSITEX
,SAILY/AY STATION; 9
SYDNEY


THE FAMOUS ZETZ=SPA.
Australia’s Great Mineral Water.
Queen Of Natural Beverages.
TITHE Famous Mineral Waters of many lands
' I ' have played a highly important part in
JL the social life of civilized mankind. The
Health-giving properties of the Springs
revealed themselves long before science in
chemistry became sufficiently advanced to deter-
mine exactly the reason why certain troublesome
complaints were relieved through the consumption
of the physic, dispensed in the great laboratories
beneath the surface of the earth. No more con-
vincing proof of the wholesomeness and the value
of such waters could be advanced than the fact
that afflicted men and women turned naturally to
the sparkling fluids for relief. Domestic animals
eat medicinal vegetation through the promptings
of a natural instinct, and it is asserted, by
FILLING THE DRUMS AT THE SPRING.
professors of natural history, that certain reptilefe
turn to a herbal antidote .when infected by the
venom of their enemies. Man being possessed of
a higher instinct, properly termed reasoning
power, turned nature’s resources to greater
advantage. For centuries past it has been the
custom for people well equipped in worldly goods
to travel long distances to places where curative
waters have been obtainable. Such places have,
indeed, become fashionable resorts, and it is highly
probable that many votaries attend in the season,
mainly because their attendance is commanded by
the inexorable laws which compel men, fat and
scant of breath, to dance in hot rooms, and weak-
chested, fragile women to sit in cold places and
sip ices. The waters, however, do nobody injury,
while they contribute to the earthly days -of
thousands.
For many years, only those who could attend
the places where the springs Were found, could
obtain the benefits of the beverages supplied by
kind old mother earth. But modern met ods
have brought the mineral waters within the reach
of all people. We have them now, in most
ZETZ-SPA TANKB AT TOOTH’S BREWERY.
palatable and attractive forms, at the soft drink
shops; in places where one may improve the
flavor and add potency to the draught by the
addition of stronger waters ; and in our homes.
Australians were dependent upon supplies from
older countries while the resources of this new
land were being exploited. Foreign waters be-
came popular, and the consumers did not look for
any other, being for the most part under the
impression that the customary spa water was
either made in Germany or raised by hand in
foreign parts, and could not be produced else-
where.
This deeply-rooted conviction has been torn up
and dispelled by a discovery made at Ballimore,
in the. Dubbo district, some 16 years ago. Balli-
more is a farming district 23 miles from Dubbo. It
is reachedby a pretty road, through slightly undula-
ting country, which brings one to the Talbragar
River. This small river has a deep, narrow
channel, which, at Ballimore, sharply divides the
level wheat country on the Dubbo side from some
rough ranges, which terminate in steep bluffs
overlooking the stream. The place presents all
the features of the sites of some of the most
famous mineral springs of the world. There are
the ragged auriferous hills and the sudden descent,
at the foot of which the springs are usually found.
In such places the valuable waters are tapped at
considerable depths ; indeed, these are considered
to be the best of all spa waters. The spot at
Ballimore was not selected as the probable site of
a mineral spring. The discoverers of the wealth-
producer were boring for coal when the sort of
thing happened which took place when two
broken-hearted diggers struck the largest nugget
of gold discovered in Australia :
** Nobody more suprised than the striker."
The directors of the Great Western Coal Mining
Company had acquired a Crown Purchase area,
and were boring close to the river. A seam
sft. 2in. thick was passed through at 540 ft. ; at
550 ft. the bore struck water, and the water
promptly made its way to the surface. There it
rose some feet in the air and continued to flow, at
the rate of over 1000 gallons an hour, a rate of
discharge which has been maintained to this day.
Somebodv tried the water and found that it had
a mineral taste, b..t the company, being compelled
to abandon boring on account of the aggressive
spring, were not in a mood to regard it as a
friendly force. The people of the. district, how-
ever, soon discovered that the spring was a most
unusual one. They drank the water and found it
good, and they endeavored to carry off supplies,
But the fluid resented attempts to imprison it.
Like Anstey’s geni, having escaped from its
captivity, it was not in a hurry to be again im-
prisoned, and it burst out of corked vessels in
blusterous indignation. Then it occurred to
somebody that the vyater was highly charged
with gas, and presently Mr. W. H. J. Siee,
(Superintendent of Drills, interested himself
in the great discovery. Mr. Slee, in 1887,
reported to the Under-Secretary for Mines
on the spring. He stated that when first taken
from the bore the water contained gases and
tasted like German seltzer water, and the dis-
coverv was, in his opinion, one of the greatest
im'oitance. The water would ascend through
tubing to over 30ft. in the air, and was therefore
most accessible. Mr. Slee went on to remark
that lie saw no reason why Ballimore should not
beoome an Australian Carlsbad or Gastein, and
the water be used for drinking and bathing by
people afflicted with rheumatism, dyspepsia, and
kindred diseases. It was a great pity that a
spring yielding over 1000 gallons of such water
every hour should not be turned to its true com-
mercial value. He was of opinion that if .the
curative qualities of the water were brought pro-
minently before the public the community of New
South Wales would be benefited.
The crystal fountain of the spring continued
flowing into the river for several years. Picnic
parties assembled at Ballimore from time to time,
and the Zetz-Spa became renowned in the Dubbo
district. Meanwhile Mr. James Samuels, chair-
man of the G.W. Gold Mining Company, caused
analyses to be made, and reports were received by
him from eminent medical men in Sydney. Each
authority in turn was delighted with the water
and impressed by the immense commercial value
of the spring. Professor Ludwick Brack, having
had an opportunity of examining the Zetz-Spa,
prepared a paper which gave eloquent testimony
of the superiorty of the water. The water is
clear, wrote Professor Bruok, free from odor, and
highly charged with carbonio acid. Professor
Brack stated that the water compared favorably
with the far-famed bi-carbonate of soda springs of
Vichy, France. Gout, gravel, stone in the
bladder, and diabetes, also splenic and hepatic
disorders, were benefited by such waters as that of
Ballimore.
What attracted the attention and compelled the
admiration of the experts was the fact that, while
Zetz-Spa contained all the essential constituents
of the best mineral waters, it was,, at the same
time, a most palatable and refreshing beverage.
Doubtless this quality first caught the apprecia-
tion of-the public when the Zetz-Spa Proprietary
Company in 1897 placed the water on the Sydney
market. Its advent is very fresh in the memories
of the thousands who welcomed the generous
sparkling fluid that popped the corks from the
bottles, and gurgled and bubbled joyously in the
glass. The limb-weary and brain-fagged city
man who sought a stimulant after a long hot day,
suddenly discovered an elixir of energy. Were
his favorite tipple spirits, claret, hock, or any-
thing that came quickest to the hand of the bar-
THE WAGGON LOADED WITH STEEL DRUMS CONTAINING SPA WATER.
lady, Zetz-Spa gave it new life, and made the
drink a reviving influence that shook off the care
and weariness of the day like magic.
The company was at this time backed up by the
reports which had been obtained by Mr. Samuels,
Mr. Will A. Dixon, F.1.G., F.C.S., lecturer at
the Technical College, Sydney, was warmly in-
terested in the remarkable spring. He likened it
to Vichy after a careful analysis, and declared it
to be the best of Australian mineral waters. After
stating that Zetz-Spa must be highly beneficial in
such disorders as those mentioned by Professor
Bruck, Mr. Dixon’s report concluded: “I find
that the Ballimore Water is an agreeable and
invigorating beverage, containing in its virgin
state natural carbonic acid gas, and is a healthful
addition to wines, spirits, &c., with which it
blends remarkably well. In my opinion, it is a
table water of the very highest order, for whilst
containing properties essentially health-giving, it
is very agreeable to the taste.” Zetz-Spa became
a very customary drink, and the people have at
length realised that Australia has produced a
mineral water unsurpassed by those of foreign
THE ZETZ-BPA BOTTLING DEPARTMENT, TOOTH’S BREWERY.
land 3, which had hitherto maintained world-wide
reputations.
During the present year, the wonderful Spring
at Ballimore, and the freehold of the land from
which it spouts, were purchased by Messrs,
Tooth and Co. The water is now being trans-
Sorted in new improved drums of tinned steel to
ydney. These drums are used to conserve the
natural gas in the water, which is bottled in the
splendidly equipped Factory at Tooth’s Brewery,
Red fern. Extensive arrangements have been
made for the distribution of the Zetz-Spa, under
the direction of Mr. H. C. Forrest, the manager
of the department, and large quantities are being
brought from the spring. There are immense possi-
bilities in Ballimore. The supply of the valuable
water is sufficient for baths on a magnificent scale,
and, the climate being warm, and the air delight-
fully rare, a great sanatorium could be established,
Meanwhile, there is hardly a more interesting trip
in this State than that from Sydney to the Zetz-
Spa Soring. The writer was one of a party which
recently set out by the night mail train, and
arrived in Dubbo next morning. We were driven
to Ballimore, through the drought-stricken coun-
try, by Mr. George Gilles, the mail contractor,
and were most comfortably housed and sump-
tuously fed at the farm house of Mr. J ohn Gilles.
A revelation awaited ns at the river, about a mile
from the homestead. The river had not received
a drop of water from its natural catchment during
many months, and, save for a quarter of a mile of
its course, it was as dry as the lips of a wooden
image. But the quarter of a mile was a winding
mirror of Zetz-Spa water, reflecting the pretty
foliage that fringed the banks of the river. The
spring ever rising had filled that length, and we
were looking upon a veritable river of Spa water,
which was 7 feet deep in places. The pipe through
which the water formerly ascended had been
taken down, and the water turned into the river
by a horizontal pipe, and at the elbow the gas was
escaping with a gurgling “glug, glug,” but there
was enough coming through with the water to fly
up our noses when we tried to drink it at the end
of the pipe. A tumbler and some of the contents
of a glass bottle with a very interesting label on
the outside, and the remains of a capsu'e round
its neck, arranged matters very satisfactorily for
all concerned. When we let it bubble into a
glass and held it to the sun it was crystal clear
and sparkling like a goblet of diamonds. That
flow has been coming up from the ; earth for over
16 years, and there is every indication that it will
rival Tennyson’s brook in everlastingness. The
photographs which illustrate this article were taken
by the writer and another member of the party,
Some of the local residents bathe in the Spa, and
there is at least one who has been transformed
from a rheumatic cripple into a hearty, active
man. This old gentleman has turned 70, yet he
rides with the seat and suppleness of a youth of 20,
and is constantly engaged in bush work. Taking
the Zetz-Spa water, one finds all digestive
troubles vanish, and at the same time enjoys a
most refreshing table beverage. The only virtue
which we found noticeably lacking in the Spa,
while we stayed at Ballimore, was in connection
with the sport of the place. The water would not
make the guns shoot straight, although we tried
it neat and otherwise.
It goes without saying that, in the hands of
Messrs. Tooth and Co., the Zetz-Spa will be
placed before the public in the perfect condition
in which it flows from the earth. Extensive
arrangements have been made for perfect bottling,
and the people are now able to obtain that greatest
of boons, a curative water, which is at the same
time a most delicious drink. Before purchasing
the Zetz-Spa, Tooth and Co. obtained analyses
from the most reliable authorities, and this sketch
may be fittingly closed by quoting the latest
analytical report obtained from Dr. Helms, M. A.,
F.C.S., who has twice visited Ballimore to test
the waters. It runs as follows:—“The water as
discharged is brilliantly clear. The temperature
of the water was 78.5 F., the air temperature being
102 F., the specific gravity is 10041. Organically
the water is pure, though the free ammonia is
high, as often happens in deep-seated springs,
The water contains 368.01 solid substances per
gallon, consisting of : Bicarbonate of soda, 287.901
grains per gallon; potash, 35.263 grains; lime,
18.604 grains; magnesia, 15.841 grains; iron,
traces ; manganese, traces ; strontium, traces ;
lithium, traces; chloride of sodium, 7.012; sulphate
of lime, 0.294; alumina, 0.112 ; siliceous sub-
stances, 1.064.


PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. GENNERT, 89C Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
[ennon’s Hotel,
Has been Re-Furnished throughout and will be
conducted as a FIRST-CLASS HOUSE. Its
central position recommends it to Commercial
Men and Families. Trams pass the door—a penny
lection to any part of the City.
S. M. COLLINS, Proprietor.
SPECTACLES
m
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, r.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-acnurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
ma3 r need. Write for it to— ,
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
m
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne.
4 Hunter-st., Sydney,
m
GrO TO UEJLL-
ItJOI/ANI* for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Sought. Price-Lists gratis.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
, 324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
in N.S.W. Religion is the last refuge of
Calico.
George Turner, in his first campaign
speech: “Australia first. Great Britain next,
and let the foreigner look after himself.”
At Rookwood (N.S.W.) asylum foraged
men are 700 electors who have been enfranchised
by recent legislation, Varney Parkes addressed
a meeting of the ancients lately, on behalf of the
Cheap Imported Coffin Party.
Dr. Mackellar will not be a candidate for
the Senate at the coming election; nor will B. R.
Wise run. Griffith, the Labor candidate, will
have the Ministerial support; the other two
vacancies still lack contestants in the National
oause.
Brewer Gray, M.L.C. (Q.), made a fatal
mistake when he referred to Treasurer Kidston’a
financial troubles of some years ago. He has set
people thinking about the financial affairs of
one or two of his own colleagues in the late
Government.
Miss Vida Goldstein, the lady candidate
in the Senate sprint down South, has introduced
a nove) feature in electioneering tactics. Being
unable to bear the expenses of an election, she
takes up a silver coin collection after her meetings
to defray the incidental expenditure.
There is some talk of the Queensland
Labor party running a candidate against Lyttle-
ton Groom, who has well represented Darling
Downs since the death of his father. Groom is a
sterling Protectionist, and a Democrat to the
marrow ; and, if the Labor party opposes him, it
will be a bad move.
“ Vindex ” : Malcolm M‘Eacharn would
get in again for Melbourne if the Federal franchise
was the same as that on which he was previously
elected ; then he scored 4985 against Maloney’s
3212. With adult suffrage and no absentee
property vote Maloney will either arrive this time
or be very close up.
There are nine Westralian Senate candi-
dates in the field—three Protectionists, three
Labor men, and three Freetraders. The Pro-
tectionists want to secure work for the people first
of all. The labor men want first of all to make
sure that the work is done under fair conditions
and for a fair wage; and between them the Free-
traders, who want to give the work to a cheap
foreign nigger and leave them both in the lurch,
will probably get in.
BROKEN UP.
“ The State Governor somewhat startled a number of men working on the road near Gloucester by alighting
from his carriage and shaking hands with them.” —Daily paper.
The fiscal situation : We know that Pro-
tection must be a good thing, else Bruce Smith
wouldn’t have practised it so extensively when he
was Treasurer, so we vote for Protection ; or else
we know that Bruce Smith is a hopelessly bad
character who practised Protection in order to
injure the country, in which case we vote against
B. Smith.
Minister Bill Lyne is to be opposed in the
Federal elections by F. E. M‘Lean, who repre-
sented Marrickville in last Australian Parliament.
His decision not to again contest his old seat did
not, despite press assurances to the contrary, cause
any surprise locally. And it’s a mighty poor
recommendation for the new constituency which
he wooes.
Four extra-tough Tories have decided to
run for the Victorian Senate seats as “anti-
Socialists ” —Factories Act Derham, E. E. Smith,
of the House of Fat, old Jock MTntyre, and Col.
J. M. Templeton. It is a hopeless cause that has
to depend on old tenth-rate Jock, who perished
politically, even in small State politics, very long
ago, and would hardly secure election as honorary
patron of a suburban football team.
“ War E.” : N.S.W. Lands Department
has always been associated with smells; and
every new Minister is going to “ clean up,” but,
somehow, he doesn’t quite get there! The
present action regarding the leasehold on Gan-
main holding (N.S.W.) demands some expla-
nation. This leasehold comprises an area of
about 38,000 acres, splendid agricultural land,
right against the South-Western Railway
(which, by the way, doesn’t pay). The lease
expired some 16 months ago, and, though
there is a continual howl for land, no effo 6
has been made to cut it up for settle-
ment ; on the other hand, nothing has
been left undone to hand it bodily over
to a financial co. A proposal to ex-
change this block for several “pea-
cocked patches ” on the back of the
run was only averted by a threat of
exposure in Parliament. At pre-
sent, there is under consideration
a “report” recommending the
retention of the whole of the area
as a “ forest reserve ” J Yet there
isn’t a stick on the whole of it L g
enough to make a whip-handle.
The last session was the emptiest and
windiest in the history of S.A. The Government
decided that if it did nothing the Opposition
would have no pretext on which to empty it out.
Its unanimous sigh of relief when the prorogation
found it still attached to its salary caused much
damage to the young fruit crops.
London St. James’s Gazette says that for
the past 20 odd years three towns in Lancashire
have been gradually sinking, in the face of
foreign tariffs and oheap importations. These
are Prescot, St. Helens, and Widnes, seats of the
watchmaking, plate-glassmaking, and chemical
manufacturing industries, respectively.
The Morgan Government in Queensland,
coming in at the tail-end of a session, had time to
try to wipe out only one of the Philp blots —the
poll-tax. And the Leg. Council defeated the
attempt. When one crowd has for 10 or 12 years
been filling a nominee House with its cast-offs,
the next crowd has a hard row to hoe.
The United States authorities, under their
law against the importation of contract labor,
lately arrested five English cotton spinners (four
men and a woman) and sent them back to
England. The United States shuts down on
imported contract labor with a thoroughness
which would make Australia’s hair stand up on its
sunburnt head.
On the same page on which the Argus
prints the Vic. Employers’ Federation pronounce-
ment against socialistic legislation it publishes an
article on the Melbourne City Council electric
works. This “socialistic experiment” has been
a splendid success, and the council is making a
profit for the ratepayers on a capital expenditure
of over £400,000.
Miss Rose Scott, at Brisbane :
Vote for decent men with brains—no matter what
party they belong to. Avoid sectarianism. What room
is there for faction in a patriotic mind ?
Which means : Vote for Kanakaphiles, alien-
coddlers, Philpite opponents of the female
suffrage—vote for anybody so long as he doesn’t
get drunk and hasn’t been through the divorce
court.
Brisbane’s new Daily Mail can’t find a
name bad enough to throw at the Federal Labor
candidates. One day it publishes a fac-simile of
a voting-paper with instructions as to how to vote
—and brands the Labor men as “Trades Hall”
candidates. Next day it dubs them “Socialists.”
Probably “Communists,” “Anarchists,” and
“ Atheists ” will follow. And the public grins.
Lord Hugh Cecil, spouting at Birmingham,
the other day, uttered a large truth. Said the Cecil,
who is a fierce Foreign-trader, “ Protection merely
takes money out of one pocket to put into
another.” Which is the real beauty of Protection.
The man always has the money about him, in one
pocket or the other. Freetrade takes it out of all
the pockets, and passes it on to the foreigner.
The Queensland Boodle party has made a
fatal mistake in raising the exclusion of colored
aliens question during the present Federal cam-
paign. It means that the White Australia issue
will be fought all over again, with the white
worker and his wife on the side of the Govern-
ment. There is no vote on the other side to
counter-balance the white worker’s wife. There
are 15 niggers to one wife.
CHURCH AND
STAGE.
JUVENILE LEAD:
"These par-
son fellows are
always so plain.”
HEAVY TRADEDY : “ Yes, good-
looking actors prefer the stage, dear boy.”
The Sydney Telegraph reports with glee
that, at one of the woman candidates’ meetings,
somebody made “a sympathetic appeal to the
audience ” not to ask questions beyond the candi-
date’s depth. Just the same plaintive appeal was
made when the selected Freetrade candidate for
Wentworth spoke at Rand wick ; but the Tele-
graph missed that—it was busy just then saying
what a brilliant, thoughtful, well-informed young
man Mr. W. H. Kelly is.
Parliamentary candidates who never visited
N.B W. old men’s or women’s homes in a private
capacity are now collecting the names of the
inmates, and laying themselves out for vigorous
canvass. As private individuals they would be
free to distribute tobacco or other “comforts,”
but the Federal Electoral Act prohibits candi-
dates indulging in such gifts. Going as a candi-
date costs nothing; indeed, a man is able to plain-
tively regret, while soliciting the votes, that the
electoral law is so strict.
About 40 Freetrade politicians are going
round at present talking about the “selfishness”
of Protection. It is a curious slab of impudence—
that talk about the selfishness of Protection.
Every Freetrader says we should adopt Freetrade
because it will benefit us, make US rich, cause us
to be jolly and fat. It is all “we’’and “us.”
If there is one unselfish Freetrader who advocates
Freetrade because, even if it injures us, it will do
a lot of good to some other country—well, where
is that unselfish person ?
Thus one H. Herfczberg, chairman of
Brisbane Chamber of Commerce :
He did not think it a good thing for Great Britain to
put up a fence around itself in order to shut out the rest
of the world. Mr. Chamberlain’s scheme would have
the effect oj increasing wages and the cost of manufacture,
and he questioned whether this would be a good thing
to do.
The importing crowd’s objection to Protection in
any shape or form expressed in a few words—“ it
would have the effect of increasing wages.”
Queensland Tory organs continue to break
out occasionally about the shameful way in which
their State has been neglected in the matter of
Federal appointments. Up to date Queensland
has supplied the Commonwealth with a Chief
Justice, an Attorney-General, a Crown Solicitor,
a N.S.W. Commandant, a Chief Secretary to the
Post and Telegraph Department, a Naval Com-
mandant and a host of smaller fry. It is the
States like N.S.W. and Queensland, which have
done really well in the way of billets, that raise
the injustice cry.
Federal contest promises some excitement
in Brisbane North. The National Liberal Union
has turned its back on the gushing McPaterson
and has endorsed a solicitor named Morse—after
the election he will probably be known as re-
Morse. But Mac announces that he will stand
against all comers. Then John Arthur--the
violent Kanakaiteand black laborist —threatens to
wipe the floor with every mother’s son who stands
in his piebald path. The man who is making no
fuss, but who will probably get home, is Dr.
Culpin, the Laborite.
Caldwell, Copley, and Senator Charleston
are the National Ass candidates for the Federal
Senate in S.A. The two former are recently-
defeated State politicians who profess to be
“moderate” Protectionists. The last is a rene-
gade Labor member who affects philosophy and
Freetrade, but has extremely nebulous views in
regard to both. The Labor party is running
against them Senator M‘Gregor, Bob Guthrie,
and W. H. Storey, who, man for man, are in
every respect abler and more eligible candidates
than their antagonists.
M‘Millan, arguing against Preference,
gave the whole Freetrade show away the other
night:—
In years to come Australia would probably produce
wheat equal in value to her wool. Well, there was
Canada within seven or eight days’ sail of Great Britain.
She could produce enough wheat to supply the whole of
England. What could we in Australia do, 12,000 miles
away, when Canada was able to supply the whole of
England's grain?
The blessed Freetrader has been telling us all
along that we needn’t trouble about factories—
that if we look after the great natural pro-
ducing industries we shall be all right. And
now M'Millan tells us that if we depend upon
the great natural industry of wheat - raising,
Canada will knock us into ruins.
The discussion in Queensland Leg. Coun-
cil on the Bill to abolish the poll-tax showed the
depths which that chamber of political cast-offs
and unknowns has reached. T. J. Hannear was
against the Bill because he wanted to see the
income-tax abolished altogether: “the Govern-
ment could have sold land to bring in far more
than the tax.” And E. J. Stevens was for the
Bill, because the loss of revenue “ could be made
up bv the sale of land before next year.” Neither
side of the House can think of any way of feeding
a dog except cutting his tail off and throwing it
to him.
“In the fifty years from 1853 to 1902,
inclusive, nine millions and a quarter of people
emigrated from the United Kingdom ... It is
at least a striking gloss on the question which
Mr. Chamberlain has raised that they have all vol-
untarily turned their backs upon the only paradise
of Ereetrade in the world, and have sought to live
under Protection for the sole reason that they can
there secure a higher standard of individual com-
fort. Amongst all these millions there is a
percentage of failure and disaster, but it is
evident that this percentage is very much lower
than it is at home.”— London Referee.
Kingston is aching for a fight in his dis-
trict of Adelaide, and has pathetically invited
some importer or other person who has lavished
abuse on him for the last three years to come out
and oppose him. Editor Sowden, of the Foreign-
trade Register, is alleged to have Federal aspira-
tions, and Kingston has tenderly beckoned to him.
But he seems to be doomed to an unopposed
return. The National Ass. says it holds aloof
lest, by throwing Kingston out of Federal politics,
it should drive nim back into the State Legisla-
ture, which is very much like the reason the fly
gave for not throwing the elephant over the fence.
George Reid is still Yes-Noing. He is.
going out to theßiverina to yelp at Chanter mainly
because Chanter's party wouldn’t illegally suspend
the fodder duties during the drought. Reid can’t,
sufficiently express his disgust for a man who
wouldn’t make allowances for a district smitten,
with misfortune. But the same drought
temporarily depopulated Riverina ; and when, in.
consequence, Chanter’s party refused to largely
disfranchise the district, as Reid wanted it to do,
he is more horrified than ever. It was a crime-
not to make allowances for the drought, and it.
was just as big a crime to make allowances for the-
drought.
Sydney paper item :
Mrs. M. Moore Bentley, who announces herself as a.
real Freetrader, is vigorously prosecuting her candi-
dature.
A real Freetrader—one who is prepared to raise-
as much as possible of the necessary revenue by
direct taxation (and considering how much per
head Britain raises in direct taxation Australia,
could, without taxing its people more heavily than
Britain does, abolish all customs except the spirit
duty); who is prepared to protect nothing, neither
beer, wine, sugar, cigars, newspapers, agricultural,
produce, nor anything else ! Truly, angels rush
in where the Yes-No fears to tread.
The National Black and Liberal Tan.
Union of Queensland, which is running John
Bartholomew, John Murray, and the martial;
Tunbridge for the Senate, has resurrected the old
wheeze with “the liberty of the subject” in it—
“ legalised interference in industrial disputes is a.
violation of that liberty of the subject which has-
been the boast and glory of the British race.”
The Black-and-Tan Union ought to turn up its-
dictionary and learn that a subject is. a person-
under control, and that it might just as well talk
of the blackness of white, or the coldness of heat,
or the fullness of vacancy, or the freedom of?
bondage, as of the liberty of the subject.
South Australia’s Legislative Council is
paid (its members get £2OO a year, same as the
Assembly men), and that will be the death of it.
yet. The country would
put up with it so long
as it merely played
the deuce with
legislation ; but as
it costs something
directly, and as
South Aus. is look-
ing round to save
sixpence, it is
doomed.
FRIENDS MEET.
“Seen Jim Smith lately?” “ Yes, ran across,
him in Pitt-street last Wednesday.”
Is it a fact that members of the N.S.W.
Cabinet are largely interested in various private-
schemes to cut up land for closer settlement ?If
so, is it likely that that Cabinet will push on with
State efforts to cut up big estates, and thu3 bring:
the Government into competition with its own
private profit-seeking speculations ?


Ladies who are Particular
ABOUT THEIR ATTIRE WILL FIND
A
THE CALLAGHAN
Perfect in form and finish, and will also find
that it will wear a very long time,
keeping a good shape to the end.
THE
COLLARETTE
GIVES
A VERY
NEAT
APPEARANCE*
*>•
m
m
m
Post Free
Duty Free
for
13/6
All over the States except W. A.,
12/11 a pair; or, post and duty paid, 13/6 per pair.
Fine GLACE kid, patent toe oaps, pointed, medium, or
broad toes, lace or button.
You can have a pair of these shoes sent to you.
You oan closely examine them.
YOU OAN TBY THEM ON.
You oan exchange them for others, or
You oan have your money returned if not satisfied.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorge st., Sydney.
HEALTH
AND HOW TO OBTAIN IT*
IfIPORTANT TO HINERS
KIDNEY TROUBLES
AND
fIALARIAL FEVER
CUBED BY
VITADATIO
Warwick, Queensland, May 28th, 1901.
s * r > Doubtless you will be glad to receive another
-timony to the efficacy of your valuable remedy VITA-
About 12 months ago I went to the Ebagoolah Gold-
fields, and hence to New Guinea, full of health and hope,
but it was not long before I became a victim to that fear-
ful climate which completely undermined my health. I
Was treated in Northern Queensland in two hospitals
without success, finally and with difficulty that would
take too long to detail,l reached Brisbane when 1 secured
your remedy, which I am glad to say at once produced a
magical effect and ultimately restored me to health and
vigor.
I am delighted to be able to write thus, and would
suggest that you publish this in the papers circulating
in New Guinea where I am so well-known.
I am not a doctor, but I believe my trouble was a
severe disorder of the kidneys caused by and attended
with malarial fever.—Yours truly,
„ (signed) ANDREW JAMIESON.
To S. A. Palmer Vitadatio 8/5/1901.
For farther particulars,
i S. A. PALMER,
Bead Office: Clarendon Street A 7.,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
To Writers of Short Stories.
“ PT'IHE TRAVELLER ” (Commercial Travel-
JL lers’ Association, Elinders-st., Melbourne,
Proprietors) offers FIVE POUNDS for a good
SHORT STORY suitable for Xmas Supplement.
Length not to exceed 10,000 words; copy to reach
Editor, at above address, not later than December
10th. Any story accepted to become the property
of The Traveller.
EYNOLDS'S
NEWSPAPER
FOR ARTICLES ON
Labor and Wages and Labor Disputes.
MOTTO: Government of the People, by
the People, for the People.
PRICE-ONE PENNY WEEKLY.
JOHN DIOKS, Effingham House, Arundel-street,
London, Eng.
ft
n
1
min
Kfc Pi *
II
|ry
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late mPERIAL),
Corner of GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE
This Elastic Truss
m
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 157-
Double, 20/-
is something better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
All( l itt oor - Swanston and Lonsdale Sts.. Melbourne
£lOOO Reward will be paid by Lever Brothers
Limited, Sydney, to any person who can prove
that this Soap contains any form of adulteration
whatsoever, or contains any injurious chemicals.
Sunlight
Soap
REDUCES
EXPENSE
TYPEWRITERS
mmm
3 of the World’s Best
wmm
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co. ADELAIDE—N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— HedIet Button.
m
Concerning Elgin Watches^-
-| . '
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES :
GENTS.’—4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold .Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Bilver
Case, Gold .Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Bilver, 60s.
Wt ite for particulars to —
Queensland Agents :
SWIFT & GRICE,
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
| In 1872 Great Britain sent to Protectionist
countries (some of them had only just begun to be
Protectionist) £116,000,000 worth of manufactured
goods. Last year the total was down to
£73,500,000, and the fall between the two points
had been fairly steady. On the other hand, Pro-
tectionist United States, which in 1870 exported
£81,000,000 worth of goods to Great Britain, in
1901 exported £141,015,000. In other words,
.Freetrade Britain, in 30 years, lost 37 per cent!
of its trade with Protected countries, while in
30 years Protective United States increased its
trade with Preetrade Great Britain by 74 per
cent. A country that can’t take as big a hint as
f jhat must be a very dull country indeed.
The man on the Land is always in trouble, but
his troubles end when he places his business in
the hands of Land Agent W. N. Willis, of 21
Bligh-street. No results no fees, is his business
shingle.*
N.S. W. acting-Chief Justice Stephen has
spent his last day on N.S.W. Bench. With a
couple of intermissions, he, his father and grand-
father held N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench since
1825. Alfred ascended, the Bench six years after
John, and M. H. climbed up 14 years after
Alfred. The three, among them, spent 58 years
on the N.S.W. judgment seat. The next of the
family in legal order is Cecil B. Cecil is the
oldest practising barrister wearing stuff, and some
think that now that Matthew Henry quits,
symmetry would be satisfied by Cecil mounting
the Bench. Cecil has been 33 years at the Bar.
Justice Boucaufc, on circuit at Port Augusta
(S.A.), having given a youth five years' hard
labor for horse-stealing, proceeded to hear a
further oharge against him for a brief breaking
out of a country jail while awaiting trial. The
Adelaide dailies of Nov. 19 say that counsel
“made an eloquent appeal on behalf of the
prisoner, who is only 17$ years of age ”; where-
upon the gentle Boucaut added on to his five years,
two years more, with 6 months of it in irons!
Some day an Australian Judge, in his haste to get
the work finished and get home to his pictures or
books or collection of beetles, will pass a sentence
of 1000 years solitary confinement in chains.
M‘Eacharn’s thanksgiving dinner to his
fat and greasy citizens of Melbourne displayed
the art of public dining—the technique of which
is to tip the waiter half a dollar, hide a bottle of
wine under your chair and lead the strenuous life.
Prominent citizens, for solid battle after food and
liquor, can beat Sunday-school picnickers every
time. It was a charming sight to see Fitzroy
Smith beaming with joy because he had one more
currant than Councillor Backache. The menu was
a Skinner masterpiece. English was too common
and French was too difficult for the citizens, so
there was a compromise, thus: “ Boudin of
Chicken Printanniere,” “BoiledTurkeyau Blanc,”
“ Almond Gateau, ” etc. There was a special note
requesting the guests to remain for the speeches.
It was only fair that after they had taken the
boiled oiseau of Skinner they should wait for the
half-baked speech of the gaud mayor.
Says George Reid, in his appeal to the
people of New South Wales: “I make no secret
of the fact that I cannot get reform unless I get
more strength, and unless New South Wales is
prepared to stand by me to get the policy that has
prevented the emigration of her people ... I must
abandon the contest.” Presumably George Reid
means the policy for which he was responsible
when, in 1895-6-7, he had all the strength that any
Premier could wish for. And this is how, accord-
ing to Coghlan, Reid’s own statistician, he “pre-
vented the emigration of the people ” :
1895-6-7 .. Excess of Departures over Arrivals .. 4980
And this, according to the same statistician, is the
movement during the two years ending December
31st, 1902, under that policy which George Reid
now wants low South Wales to swop for his
own:—
1901-2 .. Excess of Arrivals over Departures .. 77
It isn’t much of a gain, perhaps, but there was the
drought working against anything better, and
there were the evil consequences of the Reid
rigime to be got rid of; and yet, in spite of all, it
was. about 5000 times a better result than the Reid
period shows, anyhow.
While the N.S. W. Freetraders (who never
practise Freetrade when in office) are proving so
conclusively that Protection and Preferential
trade with Britain can’t go together, Seddon has
just shown in highly protected Maoriland that
they do. Seddon takes the bull by the bowsprit
by keeping the tariff rates against Britain just
where they were, but raising them against
foreigners. It is reckoned that this will divert
£300,000 worth of trade from foreign countries to
Britain, and for a community of 800,000 people
that is a large concession. Whether Seddon
is wise or not he is at least attempting real
imperialism ; first he looks after the part of the
empire called Maoriland, and next after the rest
of the empire. The Freetrade idea is to put all
the empire’s enemies on an equality with the
empire, and to look after the Chinaman and the
Russian equally with our own people.
From London Daily Excess on tha
Chamberlain tariff proposals:
There is talk of the men in the lower grades of the
civil service, like the postmen, opposing the tariff because
they will not get higher wages out of it. Such opposi-
tion would indicate shortsighted selfishness. How do
they know that their wages»will not increase ? Their-
wages are regulated by the general level of wages in
other employments, and if that general level rises, their
rates will also rise. Even if they did not, since the cost
of living will not be increased, these civil servants would
have no object in opposing the tariff. Compare this
alleged attitude with the attitude of trade unionists
when some other trade union is engaged in a strike.
When the colliers are striking for higher wages, the
engineers contribute to the colliers’ strike fund, notwith-
standing that the success of the coal strike means that
the engineers will have to pay higher prices for their
coal. They think of the general interests of labor rather
than of the price of any particular commodity. How
much more then, should they support the tariff,
which is in the interests of the men wlmse wages
are kept down by foreign competition, since the result of
such support will not increase the cost of living, and will
most likely result in indirect benefit to those who give
their support ?
A fine analogy—that between Protection and
Trades-unionism !
Stated by Sydney D.T., with an incom-
prehensible air of triumphant argument, that, in
the Australian Parliament,
Temptations to vote for duties in favor of industries in
their own States were altogether too strong. Mr.
Solomons, of South Australia, was a Freetrader on
everything but salt. And he voted for a duty on
salt to protect an industry in his own ' State.
He made no secret of it. “ I see other members,”
he said, “ voting for Protective duties on goods
manufactured in their States, and why shouldn’t I for
goods manufactured in mine?" Some of the Queens-
landers, while professing Freetrade, voted for duties on
bananas and coffee, because both are produced in Queens-
land.
Exactly 1 Solomon, as a good Freetrader, howled
that it was Freetrade which made industries
grow, and supplied work and wages, and kept the
worker’s wife and children from starvation. But
he knew all the time that it was a lie. When it
was a question of his own State’s industry he
didn’t vote for Freetrade, so that his own State’s
industry would boom ; he voted for Protection.
Either Solomon voted to wilfully destroy the salt
industry of his own State by Protection, or else
he voted to wilfully and maliciously destroy the
industries of other States by Freetrade. One way
or the other he was a traitor and a public enemy.
Questions tabled in the N.S.W. Assembly
illustrative of the difficulty which an M.P. finds
nowadays in hustling for prominence:—
Mr. Mackenzie to ask the Colonial Secretary,—
(1) What were the reasons that Mr. Mackenzie was
requested by his Department to limit the number of
nominations for the position of Justice of the Peace to
six?
(2) For what reason were only four of the nominations
accepted, while one of the two not accepted was a nomina-
tion at the request of the police for the requirements of
public business?
(3) For what reason did the Government appoint six
gentlemen who were not nominated by Mr. Mackenzie
after requesting Mr. Mackenzie to nominate only six ?
(4) On whose recommendation were the six following
gentlemen appointed Bell, Robert, Albert-road, Strath-
field ; Bell, William Fife, Strathfield; Cutler, William
Edgar, Oampsie, Canterbury; Perry, J. S., Liverpool;
Gibson, William John, Padstow Park, East Hills?
(5) Is he aware that Mr. (one of the Jay-Pays) at
the last municipal election at Bankstown, made accusa-
tions against the Returning Officer, for which he had to
apologise in all the leading newspapers to save legal pro-
ceedings?
It’s to worry about J.’s.P. and other insect
matters that the N.S.W. member neglects his real
duties.


“ Melbourne ” writes :
Re salary of dispenser at Children’s Hospital (B. 5/11/’O3).
Your informant has misled you. The advt. asked for
“an assistant dispenser,” not necessarily a qualified
man, as there are already two such in the dispensary.
“ Australian,” in the "Rand Daily Mail,
tells of the reward Australia has reaped for help-
ing to subdue the Boers :
Several of my friends recently arrived here have been
refused billets simply because they hail from Australia.
Who could believe such universal bigotry could exist in a
British colony, won and watered by the life-blood of so
many gallant Australians ?
Possibly in the near future the Rand Jews and
their Chows will go the whole hog and pass an
Australians’ Exclusion Act.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-streec.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents: WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.^^
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
asr.s.'W'.
fflont deplete B.fll. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
■ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. 6
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,354
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
£693,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp Sf Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jkssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Coilins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP i. 90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
0. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
The Bank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 100 ... £350,000
Health* Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
(U CORO’S
t .BS^ ttCfcof ~U f 6 ~,
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 368. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia—PUMPl & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; N.S. if.—Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Houses and Land for Private Sale.
Grand Compact Station Property.
Good Homestead.
5271 ACRES.
WELL watered with Creek and Tanks, with first-class
catchments. There is a stack of Hay, and the
country looks lovely.
STOCK.
760 flock ewes and 400 flock lambs (fit to wean by middle
of December). 465 stud ewes and 122 stud lambs.
300 stud ewes to lamb this month. 7 stud rams,
5 selected rams, 51 flock rams. 25 cull rams, 30 fat
wethers. 4 draught mares, 1 harness mare, and 2
saddle horses. 1 cow and calf, 1 buggy, 1 sulky,
harness to each. 2 wool presses, etc.
All furniture, including piano, bedding, stores, etc.
r Price, £9lO 0. Easy Terms
Full particulars —
HUGH DUFF & CO.,
Auctioneers,
283 GEORGE ST,
Shipping.
IVT. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
m m
m
♦Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
S.S. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 9th DECEMBER.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
I
Noon, Dee. 11
Noon, Jan. 9
Noon, Feb. 2
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoonnfielti Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
QC B _A_ 3XTI C
THE
STE A. R/X S 111 3F» CO 3VE PAKT Y.
A. AND aT LINE.
EAST MAIL LINE.
Sydney to Auckland .. .. .. 3.1 days.
~nd to Pago Pago .. .. .. 4 days.
Samoa to Fanning Island .. .. : 4 days.
Fanning Island to Honolulu .. .. 2J days.
Honolulu to San Francisco .. .. 6J days.
Dverland to New York .. .. .. 4 days.
New York to London .. .. .. 6 days.
Passengers can break the journey en route.
mm
Elaborately appointed Staterooms for occupancy of not more than TWO Passengers.
No Steamers on the Pacific compare with our “ Sister Ships,” S erra, Sonoma, Ventura. The NEWEST, LARGEST
(6200 tons), FASTEST, AND ONLY STEAMERS HAVING TWIN-SOREWS WITH TWO SETS OF
INDEPENDENT ENGINES.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
Send for Illustrated Matter, including New Publication, “If Not, Why Not?” Post Free, 3d.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
' —TIII5—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robirts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mili.hr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,700,830.
Policies issued 91,305 - assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses- eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, G-eorg'e Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,600,000
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
Soda. Water Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs, —The machine purchased from you is per-
fection. Thf. Stuff turned out is Splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers. —Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says:—“Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it. has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says :—“ It is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says:—“Since getting one of
your Machines, and making our own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
VY. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says:—“Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says “ Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. 11. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says “ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland,says :—“Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
a good quality of Aerated Waters. Observe the Profits.
Call and see these machines, or write for circular describi-
ng them, also Price List. Prices Reduced.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co-
-407 COLUNS-STUEET. MELBOURNE.
CANADIAIM-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMER SAILS ON
3Ntovbm:ber 30.
Cheapest Route to Canada,
United States and Great
Britain.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
Cecember 28, January 25.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP . COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-sbreet, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
Hodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
I “Don’t shout ’
I hear you. I can heat now
, as well as anybody.
•"How?' Oh some- }
thing new The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I‘ve a pair in my
ears now. you can’t see them
-they're invisible. I wouldn’t
know I had them in myself,
k only that 1 hear all right.’*
Wilson Ear-Drum ts
really a substitute for the
working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable * Totally
(different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
.P. CHAEHtPS, 229-231 Collins Sf., Help.
m
m
lil'liliill
PERSONAL MAGNETISM, Etc. By our system you
can learn this wonderful Science at home. It enables
you to cure Diseases, Bad Habits, such as DRUNKEN-
NESS, win Reluctant Affection, create amusement, make
friends and money, and gratify your highest ambitions.
We absolutely guarantee success. Our book on Hyp-
notism, Personal Magnetism, etc., Richly Illustrated
throughout with Photos from Life of Persons Hypnotised,
is the finest work of its class ever issued, is intensely in-
teresting, and has been the means of starting thousands
on the road to success. Send for Book, post free, and
test for yourself this remarkable power. The American
Institute of Science, Victoria Buildings,'63b Elizabe.h-
street, Sydney.
SUpplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO
(LIMITKT)).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, Nov. 27, at 5 p.m.
(Transhipping at
Melbourne).
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, Dec. 5, at 10a.m.
(Without Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Ami Ports North to Oairna
S.S. Gabo, November 28.
S.S. Allinga, December 4.
I S.S. Innamincka, Dec. 12.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARI3.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
m
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India. China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
includin'; table wirieg.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet)
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
m
EVEIiV CONVENIENCE KOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
E.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, GOLDS,
ASTHMA, BfiOMCIHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c -. bear 3
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlohodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.’
mx
LADIES’
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Te. 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21 - each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
680-682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
Tennis Shirt, from 4/6
Day Shirt, from 4/-
VERTEX CELLULAR
SUMMER
V^SHIRTS.
Full Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
BR.A.HA.M & C !>.,
73 & 75 KINS STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agent in N.S. W.


TRIUMPH OF MODERN SURGERY.
. By applying Chamberlain’s Pain Balm, which
is antiseptic, to vvounds, bruises, and like injuries
before inflammation sets in, they may be healed
without maturation in one-third of the time
required by the old treatment. It also allays the
pain and soreness. Keep a bottle of Chamber-
lain’s Pain Balm in your house, and it will save
you time and money. One application gives
relief. Sold everywhere at Is. 6d.*
The Bulletin’s Christmas number will be
issued on December 10th, and, as already the rush
for extra copies has set in, early application is
necessary to ensure supplies. It will contain the
largest and best selection of the work of the
picture, song and story artists of Australia ever
issued to the public of this continent, and without
it no holiday will be complete.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
ENGINEMAN’S MASTER KEY.-All subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations ;
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also COLE’S,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
55., P. 0.0, or stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany
“TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. IBLIDTaUDa-lE] & GO.,
DYERS & GLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
64
Hotelkeepers I
Make your own SODA WATER
IJIIJJHIW
WITH
Eckersley’s Improved Aerated Water Machines
Owing to the number of unscrupulous imitators attempting to exploit a
trade which by virtue of the superiority of our machines we hold, we desire
to point out to intending purchasers :
(1) That our machines are used solely by His Majesty’s Australian
Squadron, after an exhaustive trial, in which other so-called aerating
machines competed.
(2) That on all the Victorian Railway Refreshment Rooms, after careful
trial and examination, our machines were unanimously selected for
the excellence and purity of the aerated waters produced by them.
(3) That the leading Hotels and Clubs throughout Australasia have dis-
carded all other makes of machines and have given ours the preference.
(4) Being by far the largest importers of Pure, Natural, Liquefied Carbonic
Gas in Australia, we can insure to purchasers of our machines an
unfailing supply of this gas.
A few of the hundreds of users of our machines are given below, and
they will be pleased to furnish inquirers with their opinions thereon:—
The Flagship of the Auptralian Squadron (H.M.S. Royal Arthur).
George Talmage, Lessee Victorian Railways Refreshment Rooms at
Geelong, Ballarat, and Melbourne (Vic.).
John Rowan, Railway Refreshment Rooms, Warragul, Sale, and
Traralgon (Vic.).
J. P. Rowan, Commercial Hotel, Leongatha (Vic.)
R. G. Drummond, Victoria Hotel, Hamilton (Vic.).
S. J. Carberry, Sportsman’s Arms Hotel, Star of the East, Murehison
(W.A.).
Thomas Barclay, White Cliffs (N. S. W.).
J. J. Kahl, Tattersall’s Hotel, Blackall (Queensland).
We are also Manufacturers of Small Machines for Cafes, Confectioners and Private Use.
SODA WATER costs l£d. per dozen.
LEMONADE, GINGER BEER, GINGER
ALE, &c., &c., 4d. per dozen.
Descriptive Catalogue and
Full Particulars from
ECKERSLEY & SONS, 214 Queen St., Melbourne, Vic.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED FOR IT.
lit will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from it.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
EMMIE « CO., PIEtBOn
BT,A ( 'K, It ED, and li LUE (in 8-gallon Cases)
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
SYDN -Y (E Rich & Co!, Ltd.)
BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
4/-
4/-
4/-
4=/-
per Ga lon.
The Inky Way.
The S.M. Herald actually makes a move at last with-
out getting a lead from the D.T. Both have been running
a “ Bicycles for Sale and Hire” advt. heading- for years.
The Herald now adds “and Motor Oars.” This daring
will yet lead the old lady into trouble.
* * * *
The snippet craze has reached London financial jour-
nalism now—a Financial Tit-Bits has appeared. It
promises Bull-Cohen that it will provide him with all the
money-market news he needs, reduced to sausage-meat
and spiced with jokes. And all for a ha’penny.
In the old days of the country press there was a subtle
freemasonry, which extended from the editor right down
to the junior devil. This was—it is no more. In one of
the larger Queensland towns the organ of the great
Liberal party was owned by an irascible politician, who
thought himself a statesman, and compelled his paper to
record the lie every issue. The rival paper was run by a
syndicate of Conservatives, with cash, but not much
intelligence. The politician hired a smart editor, who
drank ; and the enemy secured the services of a yet
smarter pressman, who also drank. One Monday morn-
ing the enemy came out with a blistering leader on the
Liberal organ, its proprietor, and all its appurtenances.
And the proprietor enjoined his servant —he never called
members of his staff by any other term —to “ scarify that
beardless boy across the street." The editor felt tired
that day, and went down the street for a preliminary
drink, and there met his rival on the same errand. How
the day was spent neither combatant could tell, but the
man who had the contract On hand was awakened by a
sleepy voice at his side muttering, “ Wonder where the
devil I’ve got to now?” “D if I know; but”—
striking a match—“it looks like the Tattersall’s stable.
Wonder what day it is ? ” They crawled round to the
bar and had another, and then sought information.
“ It’s nine o’clock of a Monday night,” related the
publican. “ Immortal Caesar 1 ” exclaimed the drunker
of the two, “ and old G told me to flay you alive in
to-morrow’s issue. And I’m too drunk, old man; too
damnably drunk to flay anybody." “ That's all right,”
said the less drunk of the two; “ I’ve nothing to do
to-night. Come along and I’ll flay myself in your paper.”
The article which he wrote about himself was a monu-
ment of vituperation, and the politician was a glad man
that morning. Things like that don’t happen now, as a
rule. The wild irresponsibleness of the early days is
wearing off in the struggle to keep the Public Debt
afloat.
* » • *
“ D’Harum ” : Advertised in a typical country rag for
three months once, and then wrote the proprietor telling
him to cancel my ad. A few days after I received a note
asking me to allow him to continue it gratis till he got
another in its place.
* * * *
Remarkable how little the character of Sydney Morn-
ing Herald’s London correspondence has changed in 50
years. Dr. Lang wrote to the Herald on January 13,
1851 : “ Your London correspondent, Mr. Michie, whose
general style and standing as a writer strongly remind
me of the compositions of a lady’s waiting-maid, has
thought proper to make himself very merry at my ex-
pense.” And it is still a waiting-maid at the task.
• • • *
11 Jones ” : Wanted—a stand made against the demand
of the churches—especially those run by country sky-
pilots—to have their printing and advertising done at
cut rates. Have just got an order for a local concert, to
be run on show-night ; tickets 600 at Bs. 6d. the lot;
and advt., two insertions, that pans out at the rate of
Is. Id. an inch, all told 11 Why do Idoit ? Well, if I
don’t, the chap in the next town will jump at the chance
to lower the dignity and prestige of the local organ—
that’s mine —at an even lower rate. Then, to add insult
to injury, I am expected to buy a ticket in the concern,
which increases my loss some more, besides inserting
sundry puff pars. Now, if that goggle-eyed reptile in
the next town only had some principle about him, our
papers might both be a credit to the district where we
hang out, besides being decently dressed ourselves ; but
the spectacled reptile won’t listen to reason. He is a
snake by nature, and has all the dignity of one.
• * * *
The fourth commandment of the daily paper journalist;
Remember the Sabbath day to keep it for labor wholly.
Six days shalt thou grind out copy and do double work,
and the seventh is the Sabbath when the sermons come.
On it thou shalt do the churches and write up the matter
of the bygone night. The Lord rested on the seventh
day ; but the Lord did not have to go to press for Mon-
day’s issue.
* * • *
Black-and-white men receive poor encouragement from
most papers in Australia. In Victoria the weeklies use
photographs ; and the “ great country weekly,” the
Australasian, which has no excuse on the score of
poverty, not only disdains to publish local drawings,
but actually clips and reproduces drawings with jokes
from English and American papers.
* * * *
“ Rhaupo ” : Re accident to a galley of type in the
Eden Propeller’s office. Dungog (N.S.W.) Chronicle
presented a particularly pallid appearance as it struggled
into print one night some four months ago. A pet cocka-
too, on a Sabbath morning, effected an entrance to the
composing-room and scratched on to the floor eight
columns of brevier reading-matter and seven of standing
advts. Excited comps, and pressmen spent half next
morning in a chase after the cockatoo, bent on wreaking
vengeance, but their efforts met with cocky’s exasperat-
ing, oft-repeated phrase, “ There is no luck about the
house.” Resurrected stereos, of bygone customers graced
the pages that night, patent-pill vendors got free advts.,
while local advertisers’customers were told to “Watch
this Space.” [“Watch this Space” is a very dull and
commonplace way out of the difficulty. Why not state
honestly “Smith’s Advt. destroyed by Cockatoo”;
“Jones’s Notice wrecked by Malign Fowl”; “this Par
obliterated by Bird ” ; “ Pretty Cocky been Here ” ;
“Advt. destroyed by Flying Rooster”; “this Item sus-
pended owing to Reprehensible Animal,” and so on ?
Variety has its charm. —Ed. B.]
* * * *
There are two combinations of pressmen at Christchurch
(M.L.)—a Journalists’ Union and the Journalists’ Insti-
tute. One crowd entertained the other lately, and it
might be imagined that among such a galaxy of geniuses
there would be a feast of reason and a flow of soul. The
nature of the flow may be judged by the chief toasts,
which were: “ Sport and Sportsmen,” “ The Boxing
Association,” and “ The Arts and Sciences,” last being
responded to by a horse doctor.
A “ valued subscriber ’’ writes to the editor of Mudgee
Guardian (N.S.W.): “ Would you please go to the Court
House and register my two dogs ? I haven’t any money,
but if you pay the ss. it will make £3 I owe you, and you
can stop my paper, and I’ll pay you when I can.”
* * * *
Recent yarn in Sydney D.T., “ My Princess Inez,” was
from the pen of Mr. Hickie, one of the sub-editorial staff.
It was cleverly plotted and moved briskly to its end—
good enough to encourage Mr. Hickie to try his hand
again in the same line.
* • * •
“Barney": Apropos the commercial reporter who
quoted the price for seed pollard, and the “ stud wether”
gentleman (8., 3/9/’O3). South Australia was once cruelly
deprived of an even better sensation. The shipping re-
porter was young and fresh, and his slow, mild bleat used
to aggravate the profane and case-hardened shipping
agents. One of them, in a burst of rage, added to the
list of imports by a certain vessel, “4000 post-holes for
the S.A. Government, and 100 doorways." If the old man
hadn’t chanced to look at the proofs S.A. would have felt
better next morning than it had done for years. “I
wish,” said the agent, sadly, when he heard the facts,
“ that I’d added a dozen long holes to go in the centre of
cannon. Then the old man would have killed that fellow
for certain."
* * * •
“ Minion ” : Should a new daily paper become a
fact in Melbourne, let’s hope that it will not have
its chances of popularity damned by the hideous
practice adopted by the Argus of printing its
paragraph ads. in the same type as the news matter, and
continued on in the same columns. Have heard more
blasphemy vented on the proprietors, managers, and all
connected with the Freetrade journal than would fill a
gasometer over those catch ads. that start off by announc-
ing a revolution, or something of the sort, and then
switch off suddenly on to the merits of Quack’s Quaffles
as a sovereign cure for Blue Devils.
« • • * -
Recent prison statistics reveal the strange fact that
editors play no prominent part in the world of crime.
Members of Parliament, clergymen, bankers, &c. —not
a trade or profession has escaped undesirable police
attention except that of the editor. In neither England
nor the United States is there an editor “ doing time ”
for a felony.
• • • •
“ Vic." : There are probably few press men remaining
who have any recollection of Wm. Jaffray, a distin-
guished Melbourne journalist in the early sixties. He
was a good dramatic and art critic, and one of the
prettiest writers the Melbourne press has known, also a
Bohemian without the physical strength to play the part
successfully. When in the House of Commons gallery
he took the last “turn” of Robert Peel’s famous
speech in moving the repeal of the Corn Laws, and was
afterwards sub-editor of London Daily News. An agent
of David Syme’s engaged him as sub-editor of Melb. Age,
and he came out to the position, notwithstanding the
advice of actor G. V. Brooke, then in London, not to
accept it. No man ever took his goods to a more unsuit-
able shop, and the connection was broken in less than a
year. Jaffray, when sub-editing, once said to me:
“ I hate coming down to this work just as heartily
as Albert Smith hated going to the Egyptian Hail
every night to deliver what he called his accursed
lecture on “ Mont Blanc." Argus proprietor Ed. Wilson,
arrived in Melbourne at this time on a visit. He had
known Jaffray’s father, a Church of England parson, in
the old country, and Jaffray had also written a pamphlet
for Wilson in London. This acquaintance led to appoint-
ment as Argus sub-editor, but Jaffray could not stand
the hard grind of Melbourne morning newspaper work,
and he eventually drifted back to Fog City, where he
died of small-pox a couple of years later. Before leaving
Melbourne he distinguished himself by falling in love with
Emma Howson, then in the first flush of her youth and
vocal talent, and by inducing Barry Sullivan, at the
old Royal, to produce his blank-verse tragedy, “ The
Gladiator of Ravenna,” translated from the German. It
had what is called a success of esteem for a week or a
fortnight, and there was a decent benefit for the author,
who returned thanks with his eye in a sling, in conse-
quence of having fallen out of a cab subsequent to a ban-
quet he gave to the actors and actresses.
In North Adelaide there is a house called
with a patent-medicine name. How long before
“Blue Beans Mansion” or “Pale Pills Villa”
will be built ?
Since the Yankee went in for practical
Imperialism he has shown an aptitude for robbery
which promises a successful career at the business.
The Yanks wanted land for a canal in Colombia ;
Colombia’s price was too high. Now the State of
Panama (Colombia is a Federation) has started a
revolution against the Federal Government, and
the Yankee promptly “recognises” the ,Pro-
visional Government and will smash up Colombia
if it attempts to quell the revolt. By-and-by'e the
State of Panama will give the Yankee the canal
land he wants at his own price, and all will be
well. Britain or Germany or Russia couldn’t
have done the job more neatly.
Mr. MacNaughton, a suckling barrister of
Hobart, is out for the Reps, and has original
notions of politics:
The teaching of history and the teaching of science
most emphatically and clearly prove that, as the black
man cannot compete in manual labor with the white man
in a temperate clime, so the white man cannot compete
with the black man in a tropical clime. To me White
Australia seems a puerile fancy. I thought as a child
what a splendid thing it would be if all horses could be
painted blue. It seems to me that that was an absolutely
puerile fancy. It is not much more puerile than the idea
of White Australia.
Blue-Horse MacNaughton was evidently an ex-
traordinarily silly child, and he doesn’t seem to
have learned much since.
Tasmanian Parliament has, grudgingly
enough, passed the Women’s Suffrage Bill. The
speeches, especially in the Upper House, were up
to the usual Dodery standard. Many members
stated frankly that they didn’t think women had
brains enough to vote, but as the Federal Parlia-
ment had given women the franchise, and Van-
demonia’s Dry Bones never are able to do anything
on their own, they supposed they must follow suit.
Then these admirers of the Federal Parliament
refused to abolish sixteenth - century property
qualifications and tagged on a clause declaring
women ineligible for seats in either House of
Parliament. The Assembly showed a disposition
to shy at this bog legislation, but after considering
the hopelessness of getting any really sensible Bill
through the Dodery House it accepted the
measure. So a number of M.’sL.C., who have
declared that women haven’t brains enough to
vote, will shortly address them as intelligent
electors and ask them for their allegedly bnuuleaj
suffrage.
THE MODEL JOURNALIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Referring to the proposal of Pulitzer, the American
newspaper proprietor, for the establishment of a School
of Journalism, the S.M. Herald says “If a School of
Journalism can further the honorable traditions and
principles of journalism as it is known to Britons and
fostered bv the atmosphere and traditions of the British
press, it is surely welcome to try the experiment.")
Young men who would succeed
As pressmen, unimperilled
By foolish notions, read
The Gospel of the Herald—
Be safe, be slow, be sure,
Take nothing upon rumor,
And evermore be pure
And wholesome in your humor.
Be sparing in your jests—
Tis safer to be solemn ;
For Vested Interests
There is no Funny Column.
Take views as calm and high
As Newton did, or Herschel;
But always keep your eye
Upon the Things Commercial.
Cast Creeds of Change afar,
No quarter to them giving ;
That things are as they are
Is our excuse for living.
Go dead against Reform—
We stand or fall together—
While we are snug and warm,
Who cares about cold weather ?
Remember Property,
Like the great goddess Isis,
“ Is, has been, and shall be ”
The crux of every crisis.
But let the Public see,
When you have abstract reasons,
Ilow liberal you can be
In proper times and seasons.
Proclaim undying war,
In leaders fierce and murky,
'Gainst Russian Horrors, or
The Tyranny of Turkey.
Write boldly, cut and thrust,
’Gainst wrong in some unseen land ;
D.nounce the Blubber Trust
That paralyses Greenland :
Say ’tis the fault of kings,
The Balkan Tragic Drama ;
And write some bitter things
About Thibet’s Grand Lama.
Be hard on Ancient Rome—
Things dead, or at a distance,
Are safe —but take at home
The line of least resistance.
Pose as the People’s Friend,
Its candid, calm adviser—
But never dare offend
The Lord God Advertiser.
Then you will happy be
And will fulfil your mission,
And well uphold the free
Old British Press Tradition.
N.S.W.
V.J.D.
AN INKY WAY-FARER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Humping a swag in the old bush way,
Chasing the trade of his ’prentice years ;
Monolines ruined him, so he’ll say,
Humping a swag in the old bush way.
He comps on my paper for p’r’aps a day,
And getting his cash to the north land he steer 3,
Humping a swag on the inky way,
Chasing the trade of his ’prentice years.
GORDON BENNETT.
Festered Wounds Healed.
ZAM-BUK AGAIN PROMINENT.
“ Your Zain-Buk Ointment is the best I have
ever tried,” says Mr. W. Henderson, a black-
smith, of Lachlan-street, Cowra, N.S.W. “While
following my trade I often get my hands skinned,
and the frosty weather we experience in Cowra
has the effect of festering such wounds, but I find
that Zam-Buk always keep the wounds soft and
pliable, prevents them from festering, and heals
them promptly. I never lose a chance of recom-
mending your valuable ointment to my fellow-
workers.” Zam-Buk, the great herbal balm, will
be found a certain cure for pimples, blackheads,
eczema, and all skin eruptions; piles, ringworm,
cuts, burns, boils, bruises, running sores, sore
legs, barcoo, rheumatism, neuralgia, &c. Zam-
Buk is obtainable from all medicine vendors, price
Is. 6d. per pot, or post-paid from the Zam-Buk
Co., Pitt-street, Sydney. A free sample will be
sent you on receipt of a penny stamp to cover
postage. Address as above.


Constipation.
More chronic disorders are traceable to con-
stipation than all the others combined. It is
like stuffing up the sewers of a great city. All
the impurities are forced back into the system,
causing an endless amount of suffering, weaken-
ing the stomach and preventing the proper
digestion and assimilation of food. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills stand alone as the best remedy
for constipation. They get at the,cause, cleans-
ing and purifying the entire system. They assist
nature in the discharge of all her functions. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a positive and per-
manent cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, headaches, sallow complexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches,
and for female ailmen ts. Packed in amber bottles,
and sold throughout Australasia.*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE »• LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLINGr ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Is Warner going to repeat the offer Maclaren
made for equalising, as far as possible, the advantage
obtained from the first choice of bat or ball in the Test
matches? Mac proposed that the two captains should toss
for the right to take the wicket or the field in the first
game and again in the third, the other side having the
privilege in the second and fourth games. Under this
arrangement the luck of the toss would be equally
divided until they came to the final, and then they would
toss again. There is absolutely no reason why the
captains should permit the possibility of one side profiting
by the result of the toss in every one of the so-called
Tests. Truly, a side sometimes loses a match through
winning the toss owing to an unexpected change in the
weather, or a miscalculation as to the future conduct of
a wicket which promises to improve, or otherwise. But
in a general way the side that gets first choice of a hard
wicket on a fine day gains a big advantage. It is,
perhaps, a greater advantage to be able to send the other
side to bat first on a sodden wicket when the glass is
rising and the sun is busy. Under the old conservative
cricket rule of One Toss One Match the luck may be all
on one side through a series of contests.
* * * *
Some of Our Boys are nob as young as they
were. Wicketkeeper Lilley (36) is considerably the oldest
among the Englishmen, yet he is a trifle younger than
Kelly. Noble has been alive a little longer than Warner,
Knight, Tyldesley or Relf. Laver and Howell are two
years older than Hirst and Hayward. We think of Olem.
Hill and Trumper as mere boys, but they are men of fully
the same age as Rhodes, Arnold and Bosanquet, who were
all born in 1877. Foster is 25, Strudwick and Fielder not
yet 23. In the matter of new blood the visitors will be at
no disadvantage with the Australians.
* * * *
If it is even money on the Englishmen winning
the rubber in the tests, it ought to be at least 5 to 4 on
them for the first game of the series. In Sydney next
month they will have the advantage in point of condition
over their comparatively unpractised opponents ; the
strength of their bowling will not be familiar to the
enemy, and the chances are that the first selection of an
All-Australia Eleven will be improved upon later in the
light of experience. Each of the three last visiting teams
succeeded in winning the initial test-match, though two
of them were subsequently beaten four times each.
Strangely enough, Stoddart’s 1894-5 team, which won the
rubber, would have lost the first match in Sydney under
fair weather conditions. Peel and Briggs pulled the
game out of the wet on the morning of the fifth day.
* * * *
Warner, by declaring the Englishmen’s innings
closed at Adelaide and Melbourne, before the weak,
tail-end batsmen had gone in, was practically falsifying
the team’s aggregate batting average. Eight wickets for
443 at Melbourne gave them an average of 65, whereas if
Strudwick and Fielder had come and gone whilst 10 runs
were added to the score (a fair allowance for two very
inferior batsmen) the average would have been reduced
to 45. Evidently Warner is bent on accomplishing the
best possible figures for the eleven for the whole tour.
His policy of closing the innings to suit the average-
provided, of course, that he is master of the situation—
is legitimate but very misleading in its results on paper*
* * « *
“B.”: The result of the three State matches
leaves Australia wondering where to get a bowling side
for the tests. The S.A. and Vic. trundling was tripe to
the visitors, and though N.S.W. got Warner’s lot out
cheaply enough, all things considered, they had some
luck. Want of variety is the weakness of N.S.W. bowlers.
Fisher, by the way, was picked as a bowler, and an
experiment at that, and Noble should have attempted to
justify the experiment by bowling him right out. But
he was used sparingly—M’Beth 38 overs, Howell 20,
Noble 34, Hopkins 21, and Fisher 11, in the first innings
of the visitors.
* * * »
It is alleged that a quaint piece of snobbery
was perpetrated at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on the
occasion of the recent match. A kingly-looking pusson is
Baid to have come up to the press-box with tickets of in-
vitation to lunch, and inquired which paper eaoh man
represented. If it was a Tory paper a ticket was pre-
sented with great impressiveness, but when it was a
democratic paper the kingly-looking pusson cleared his
throat and passed on. The Bulletin has this tale on
middling authority.
* * * •
Nine thousand witnessed opening day’s play of
N.S.W.-England match Friday. Home side lost the toss,
and batted first on a wicket which, consequent upon rain
over night, w'as decidedly bad, and though it improved
quickly, batsmen generally shaped poorly. Trumper
and Duff did well at the outset, but, bar “ Sid” Gregory,
none of the others rose above mediocrity, and most were
bagged through making miserable swipes at Rhodes.
Tactics generally were poor, for the policy was not to
open shoulders, but to hold wickets till the queerness of
the pitch had disappeared. Runs totalled 108, of which
three men—Trumper (46), S. Gregory (25), and Duff (14) —
contributed 85. Though Rhodes brought more work to
bear in his deliveries, they didn’t appear quite the
puzzlers Arnold’s were—rising very awkwardly from the
pitch. Englishmen did the right thing, when they came
along, by not bothering about run-getting so much as
keeping bails up till the wicket dried. Things conse-
quently dragged weightily during the first hour of play
(once only 11 runs were made in 35 minutes), but when
the time arrived Tyldesley and Foster made things merry
to such an extent that at stumps-draw scores showed
runs had been piled up at the rate of one a minute, and
totalled 178 for three wickets—Tyldesley (not out) 76,
Warner 46, and Foster 35. Warner was lucky in being
missed frequently.
* * * •
England-N.S.W. match ended Monday in de-
cisive defeat of latter by an innings and 10 runs. Visitors
have now thoroughly beaten all three crack cricket
States in succession, for S.A. game was unquestionably
England’s. Despite that winners of latest match had the
luck from toss to conclusion, they out-played their oppo-
nents always. Rarely is it that one fieldsman gets the
chances Lilley had on Friday, and rarer still is it that he
makes the most of them—four catches from four opportu-
nities is something decidedly uncommon. Catching on both
sides was a treat, and fielding generally reached high-
class, as evidence those three brilliant one-hand holds by
Howell, Trumper, and Braund in one day. Lesson of
three struggles already witnessed is that the Englishmen
are here to win, and they’ll take no risks at all; when
they are out they’ll be so because the bowling or fielding
beats their well-iaid plans, or through some stroke of ill-
luck. Tyldesley, Braund and Warner stonewalled with
depressing monotony till the waited-for ball came along
—and it had to be soft indeed.
• * * *
The desperate situation and some friendly pres-
sure will probably bring bowler Trumble into the Com-
monwealth Eleven to defend those ashes which Warner’s
combination threatens to get away with. It isn’t disin-
clination which causes Trumble to hold aloof, so much as
a promise to his emplo3’ers that he wouldn’t again seek
leave for cricket purposes. The crack bowler holds office
in a leading Melbourne financial institution.
» * * *
Clem Hill’s first innings for S.A. against Vic.,
Friday, was a remarkable display quite equal to best he
has shown. For 3h. 24m. Hill batted freely and baffled
the bowling badly ; seven fours were scored. The com-
mand of the batsman over the ball, as well as the variety
of strokes from opening to close, were a treat, especially
as he never gave the merest semblance of a chance till
Monfries stumped him cleverly for 147. Efforts of other
10 were completely overshadowed, albeit Jennings
notched 37 in taking fashion.
* * * *
Jones —the ex-Australian XI. “ express ”
trundler—is reaping a harvest of wickets amongst the
less-experienced batsmen in Westralia. Recently, he
captured 11 wickets for 14 runs, and in addition scored
60 not out. Of course, it was in a Brewery Association
competition, which, to a certain extent, perhaps, put
fire into the “demon” trundler’s eye, and Herculean
strength to his arm.
In front rank of Australian cricket comers
(Judged by recent performances) is 19-year-old S.A.
colt Claude Jennings. Jennings’ stock of smites is
unusual—cut, cover, and on-side strokes are particularly
good, while behind it all there’s a deal of enthusiasm and
heaps of energy.
* * * *
Melbourne C.C. is again bringing out H.
Carpenter, of Essex, as coach to the club. There are
scores of waning players in Australia who undoubtedly
know as much as the imported one about cricket —
especially as regards play- suitable for Australian
wickets. When it was noted that Carpenter had been
engaged, Harry Graham took on a billet as coach to
Dunedin (M.L.) High School; thus Victoria loses its
best batsman, mainly for the want of recognition of
Australian worth
* * * *
If S.A. should beat Victoria (match is unfin-
ished as The Bulletin goes to press) it will be a refreshing
change for the Crow-eaters—as not since '97 have they
tasted of the sweets of a triumph over their neighbors—
Victoria having won all intervening 10 matches.
• * * *
Trustees of Sydney Cricket Ground won’t have
N.S.W. A.A.A. foot races run during half-time of impor-
tant football matches —the practice being, they say,
“ undesirable.” No doubt because onlookers stay in their
seats to watch the race instead of giving the bar a turn.
They are astute people, who never lose a chance to rake
in the coin, those S.O.G. authorities. Rugby Union,
which rents the ground for the time being, considers
A.A.A. events anything but undesirable.
* » * *
The recent arrest of a Melbourne sweep-pro-
moter produced some instructive results. Evidence
shows that investors had Buckley’s chance of getting a
prize for their “ bob,” the 1000 tickets on sale being num-
bered from 4001 to 6000 in an alleged “ consultation of
5000 members,” and the “prizes” being allotted to the
numbers ranging from 1 to 4000. In one case the
detectives discovered that one prize on the results-list
had fallen to a ticket which had actually been printed,
but as to the whereabouts of that ticket there was no
evidence. It probably stayed in the promoter’s possession,
or was given to his mother as part payment for his board.
* * * *
When even the Arous began “slinging off” at
Irvine for his Tote suppression fiasco it must have dawned
on that cool, calm cove that his masterly coup had
utterly gone adrift. For 10 long days 60 policemen were
kept twiddling their thumbs at Wren’s tote-shop whilst
that individual ran his business in new premises round
the corner. Twelve constables and a sergeant—thirteen
men, no less —still hold the fort and keep their batons
ready to subdue the obstreperous Wren the moment he
comes to claim his vacant woodyard. It would be a
shrieking joke but for the fact that the Old Age
Pensioners, the charities and the sweated public servants
will have to pay for Irvine’s incapacity.
* * * •
Wren’s tote, which the Melbourne police are
quite unable to discover though everybody else knows
where it is, did good business on Williamstown races.
Earl of Oarrick, which started at 7 to 1 on the course,
paid on the “ tote ” 256 to 1 ; Billali, the Cup winner,
quoted at 15’s, returned 38 to 1, and Rustaff, laid by the
bookmakers at 10 to 1, started at totalisator odds of
240 to 1.
* • • *
Breeding has received a great fillip in Maori-
land during the past two or three years, and now another
stud is to be established, styled the N.Z. Stud 00. A
sum of £2500 has been spent on 320 acres of fine land at
Kereru, Wellington district ; a thousand or so set aside
for a stallion at the English December sales, £4OOO for
brood mares, and a Maoriland stallion with a record will
complete the outfit. The directors are all Wellington
men.
• • « •
This year’s M.L. Cup will long linger in memory
owing to the sensational incidents associated with it.
Firstly, quite a number of well-backed neddies brought
joy to the festive heart of Mo by breaking down. Then
the bona-fides of favorite Roseal’s entry was inquired
into. It wasn't until the eve of the race that the owner
of crack Achilles decided to start his flier, and the great
crowd who follow the brainless pursuit of gambling were
kept on tenter hooks. Then on the da3', bookmaker
Moss’ grey nag smashed all records (3.27 1-5), and his
jockey, M‘Coombe, and Cameron (up on Roseal) were
passed out for two 3 - ears and one year respectively for
foul riding. For some inscrutable reason the erudite
stewards decided not to disqualify the winning horse,
and violent remarks flew through the ambient air in con-
sequence. It was a most glaring case; M'Coombe cannoned
on to Achilles in the final rush, and latter struck Wairiki.
The rule on the subject lays down the law clearly, but the
word “may ” gives stewards discretionary power and they
clutched it for all it was worth. The rule is practically
the same as that under which Tim Swiveller was dis-
qualified in Caulfield Cup years ago, and Maorilanders
have been so used to seeing prads passed out under
similar conditions that the decision caused heated
argument.
The unspeakable folly of asking 4-year-old
Achilles (carrying 9.6) to make the running in a long two-
mile gallop was explained subsequently by the fact that
rider Jenkins had been ill and wasn’t strong enough to
control him. The horse’s performance, and that of the
other 4-year-old, Wairiki (9.2) was great—all things con-
sidered. Four-year-old Patron won Melbourne Cup under
9.4, but this year's M.L. event was a great deal swifter.
They put up Newmarket Handicap time in the first six
furlongs, and went along at a proportionately strong bat
to the finish.
* « • •
Not generally known that two Australasian
records were created at M.L. Cup meeting. Besides the
2m. previously referred to herein, General Simmons won
Metrop. H’eap (1}) in 2.34 —beating previous best
(Advance’s) by l-ssec.
* » * »
Died of pneumonia, in Tas. recently, well-
known lightweight jockey George Harrison. Deceased
was 27 years old and a good horseman. His best days
saw him bring several big div.-payers home—the latest,
Palmerston (when he won Delorair.e H’cap) paying £2l
for each half sov. speculated.
* * * *
Planet, shot at Randwick, Saturday, through
fall in last race (Welter Handicap), was backed with
every “ Mo ” in the paddock at 100’s to 10 —the single
century being taken in most instances, but more here
and there. Planet was an aged gelding by Martini-Henry
from Tamarisk, but only an occasional winner, though
once or twice he landed good scoops for his supporters.
Ovqrdale also came down, and severe shakings were
experienced by jockeys P. Houseman and F. Hickey ; but
the accident, which happened right on the post and when
the other starters were closely clustered, might have
been much more disastrous.
'»* * *
Big surprise (to all but those in the know) of
Saturda3’’s A.J.O. meeting was the hollow fashion in
which Northern district nag Autocrat (by Autonomy
from Mendicant) got away with principal event—Salis-
bury Stakes, l}m.—after being heavily backed (mostly in
cash) from. tens, down to fours. Starters numbered 13,
and Autocrat won easily in 2.9, which was more than
ordinarily good. Two weeks before at Rosehill, Autocrat
was beaten out of a place by Graceton, Swop, and Fusil,
phone.
* * * *
Positano leads Australian winning sires, so far,
present season, with five horses, ten races, and stakes
totalling £7527, of which Lord Cardigan’s Melb. Cup con-
tribution is a big proportion. Haut Brion, by same sire
(St. Simon) as Positano, is second—ten of his progeny
won 16} times, closing on £6853. Grafton ranks third
with 27} races by 19 winners, money accumulated being
£6365.
* * * *
Complete Y.R.C. Spring meet returns show a
profit of £6600 —£1900 better than previous Cup week,
despite that “ gate ” and other privileges brought £2OO
less, while stakes generally were £2OO richer. Railway
department disgorged nothing this time.
Apropos Lou Dillon people’s belief their cham-
pion could bring the mile trot to 1.58 from 1.59}. Yankee
mail last Saturday brought news that Lou Dillon almost
did it, and lowered the figures to 1.58}.
* * * *
Tyro Stakes, at A. J.C. September meet, Satur-
day, induced a field of 18 well-bred youngsters. Punters
sorted brilliant Bee Bee’s stable chum, Vitula, out as
best of the field, and took 5 to 4 about his chance, while
3’s and, later, 2’s were available Sarto, who had won
twice at Fleminglon recently, and carried a 101 b. penalty
in consequence. Barrier rise saw Sarto away with lead-
ing division till, singling out, he galloped home, lengths
ahead of Vitula (second) and Mr. H. C. White’s Simmer
colt Hadrian, a poor third. Trainer Kelso (with the idea
of not putting the colt into work till later) didn’t enter
him for coming A.J.O. December Stakes, otherwise, on
form so far exhibited, he would have given Bee Bee and
co. a great shaking. Sarto is by Positano (imp.) from
Morisca, and only cost 50gs. as a yearling.
* * * *
South Sea Islander Alick Wickham, whose
portrait appears in this issue, promises to be a big
swimming factor this season—over sprint distances only
Atop of breaking his own world’s record (25 3-ssec.) for
50yds. by 3-ssec., he, on 31st ult., got through the
hundred in 59}, and Saturday last, at Rushcutter’s Bay
baths (Sydney), essayed the task of wiping out Dick
Oavill’s world’s best (58 3-5), put up at Hornsey, England,
last year. After a great effort he finished l-ssec. worse
than the figures assailed and in time (58 4-5) which
parallels the fastest ever accomplished in Australia —
Oavill’s swim at Farmer’s Domain Baths, Sydney, last
March. A prominent English authority prophesied a few
years ago that the minute would never be broken for ICO
yards, but Cavill has already done it four times, Wickham
twice, and Lane once, while the best to the credit of a
swimmer outside Australia is Britisher .1. H. Derbyshire’s
lmin. dead, achieved a few months after Lane had done
the same thing—also in the Cold Country. A great
struggle is looked for when Cavill and Wickham meet,
but those who know what Cavill is doing express confi-
dence he will respond to anything not phenomenal.
* * * *
The re-engagement of Major Taylor for the
Sydney “Thousand” meeting is a good move by the
promoting body of that carnival, since it will afford
Australians a peep at Lawson and Taylor—two of the
greatest exponents of cycling in the world —of whom over-
sea papers have frequently said so much. Good as
Lawson is proving himself to be, still Taylor’s riding in
Australia last year was so brilliant that it seems impos-
sible to put it in the shade. Taylor’s form on the
Continent on his return from Australia was of such kind
that the organisers of the big meeting were intent on
bringing him out. The dusky flier’s record for the
recently-concluded Continental tour was 28 firsts, 21
seconds, and 7 thirds, being unplaced but once in 57
starts —and this against the cream of the bike world.
* * * *
A. W. Cutler, the N.S.W. shootist, who put up
a world's record in winning the King’s Prize at Vic. Rifle
Association meeting, last week, is a non-smoker, like W.
G. Willoughby, who captured the Syme Prize (£100) for
grand aggregate score. Abstinence from tobacco and
alcohol will presently be recognised by everyone as
essentials to excellence at all games of skill where the
eyes and the hands are equally concerned. Champions
have been quoted who went in for moderate drinking and
smoking, but they were merely examples of the fact
that good nerves are very little affected by reasonable
indulgence in pipe or bowl. Besides, habits of strict self-
denial were formerly rare among sportsmen (out of train-
ing), and the moderately steady man was then the
steadiest man on the field. Lots of boys nowadays are
too manly to worry about learning to smoke and drink.
Especially the Australian boys.
• • * *
Inter-State bowling rubber in Melbourne (Mon-
day, Tuesday, Wednesday next week), ’tween N.S.W. and
Victoria looks sure for the home combination- for while
visiting side is the weakest team ever sent away, others
are the strongest lot Victoria has at any time got
together—all exceptionally good bowlers, champions in
their respective positions, and mostly winners of big
events.
• • * *
Bathurst (N.S.W.) crack shot, Private A. W.
Cutler, staggered Melbourne rifledom last week. He
gathered “The King’s” with a grand total of 325 —con-
siderably ahead of last year’s winning figures, and a world's
best. Conditions of competition are exactly the same
as at Bisley. Cutler’s aggregate is 14 better than that of
the winner of “The King's ” at Bisley this year, and 19
ahead of the successful total in 1902. New record-holder
is 20 and has been shooting six years Value of each of
Cutler’s shots was 4.58 out of 5 allowed for a bull’s-eye.
* » * *
Latest concerning champion bruiser M‘Call’s
lame shoulder is that he’ll not be able to fight for at least
six months, if then—consequently there’s little likelihood
of Dan Creedon and co. getting a match for a consider-
able time yet.
* * * •
Bob Turner (holder) and Lyn. Truscott (most
promising of second pug flight) fight for light-weight
supremacy at Sydney Gaiety A. C. Monday night went to
former. Through half the trip it was a fairly even and
very exciting thing, but subsequently Turner assumed
mastery and kept adding to his stock of points till the
20th round closed, despite other man’s desperate efforts
in the last 3min.
• • * •
Yankee middleweight pug., Frank Nicholls,
bumped the anticipated set back at Sydney Golden Gate
A. 0., Saturday night. One “Spider” Kelly accom-
plished the task in the fourth round, and never allowed
his man a look in once from the jump. Despite his
vanquishment Nicholls shaped much better than any one
of the three or four from the bounder Republic who have
visited Australia during the past several months.
• * * *
Cabled Monday that whilom English top-
notcher and once much-heralded sure world’s middle-
weight champion bruiser, Ted Pritchard, died in his 35th
year. Eleven years ago Australian Jim Hall burst the
Pritchard bubble in the open, four miles from Brighton
(Eng.), for £lOOO a side and some ring bets at 7 to 4 on the
Britisher. Arrangements were elaborate and luxurious.
Roped square was pitched in the yard of the training
establishment of Hall’s backer, the late Squire Abingdon
Baird ; and Baird provided champagne luncheon in one
room cigars and wine ad lib. in another. An offered
£lOOO purse didn’t tempt the pugs to fight in London.
Battle was sensational and punishment severe on both
sides, but Hall crushed his man during the 4th round.
Then Pritchard sank into obscurity.
* * * *
Bruise at Kalgoorlie (W.A.), the other day,
between forefront Australian lightweights, Bob Rollo
and Tim Hegarty, didn’t reach expectations. Hegarty
was top-puncher and tactician all the way till he spread-
eagled Rollo in the seventh round and won. Rollo never
was a possible champion, there being too much make-
believe about his love for the game. At the Sydney
Gaiety A.O. once, Jack Blackmore challenged Rollo, but
latter declined, alleging Blackmore “ smothered” (i.e.,
held his arms as a shield for his face without attempting
to hit) too much, whereupon Blackmore : “ Oh, you always
want to cuddle.” The house roared.
* * * *
“ B ”: There will be a falling-off in the atten-
dances if the tactics of the first N.S.W. match are
persisted in. The batsmen are not alone to blame for the
tedium. M‘Beth, for instance, got Foster’s wicket on the
Friday by the long amateur hitting at an off ball and
getting caught in the slips. So he got it into his head
that all the side could be disposed of similarly. I took
the trouble to count, in eight successive overs, the num-
ber of balls he sent down that Braund, Hirst, Arnold and
others just looked at without attempting to touch. They
ran, in successive overs, 5,4, 4,5, 3,4, 4, 5. No wonder
he sent down 14 maidens. Noble was a like offender, and
the crowd yelled at both to keep on the wicket. Now,
Arnold, Hirst and Rhodes seem to bowl at the wicket
continuously. I don’t count Bosanquet ; he’s a freak.
* * * *
“Cave Canem”: At Flemington this year I
noticed a well-dressed and apparently wealthy party
whom a friend informed me came from S 3 dney. “ Was a
bit of a notoriety in olden times," continued y n -
formant, “ made a lot of money by cock a,nd dog- K ? ■
earned a name as a dog-licker.” “ Dog-licker 1
that?” “Oh,” was the explanation, ‘ the y kl ? ew *
more in the forties and fifties than many of the
talent do to-day. It was a custom to rub cayenne pepper,
pounded chilies and other sultry stuff well into a ngh g
dog’s skin, so that his rival on taking a good mouthful
would speedily let go to yelp for water, g y
before the dogs were placed in the pit a good taster, a,
man with a reliable tongue, was employed to hex tnem
thoroughly all over. If he discovered a hot paten, tne
owner of that dog enjoyed an equally torrid time. y
the time a 561 b. dog had been well and truly licked, the
licker would probably long for a large-sized liquor.
“Marat”: Wonderful the number of persona
one meets who have drawn prizes and horses in iatt. s
sweep. Canvassing door-fasteners in Woolloomooloo, a
few days before Melbourne Cup, I struck a man in
dirty flannel and patched trousers, who was being
admired by eighteen men and women. His feet were
bare, and his appearance created the impression that ne
had just recovered from a mighty lapping bout. Askea
a bj'stander if he was an escaped lunatic, and he informed
me, in an awestruck whisper, that “ the bloke had drawn
an ’orse, and had sold the ticket for £5OO. Down the
next street I struck the man who had drawn Abundance,
and three doors further I sold a door-fastener to a woman
whose husband had drawn Lord Cardigan. round
seven or eight more during the day who had drawn cash
prizes. When I got home, the wife said Mrs. ormth, in
the hack street, had struck Abundance; and Kelly, at
the brewery, had Hauturier ; and she bemoaned our bad
luck in never being able to strike a lost threepenny bit.
So I got annoyed and said things, and there was trouble.
* * * *
A sad tale of the misinterpretation of a. dream
comes from the back country. A bushman, lodging at a
wayside pub, dreamt that the winning ticket in a bup
sweep was held by the barmaid. The dream got on his
mind, and he pestered the beer-maiden so much that at
last she sold him her ticket at double the cost. Then she
sent the money away for two more tickets, and one of
these scored second prize, while the bushman s ticket
drew a blank. And now a sad and dazed bushman
wanders along the track trying to puzzle out the
whyness of the thing, and how much it would have cost
in persuasiveness and cash to have kept on buying up
the barmaid’s tickets until it was too late for her to
send for more, and whether it wouldn’t have been cheaper
to marry her.
* * * *
“ Eph Gee Ell ” (Kalgoorlie): Triple dead-beat
between Highflyer, Barindi and Loch Lochie in Moore-
field Handicap on Caulfield Cup day prompts following
reminiscences which hunters after instances of triple
dead-heats should find in Turf Registers. In June,
1897, at Bendigo (Vic.), Ironsides, 9.0., Revenge, 8.5,
and Eva, 8.3, dead-heated in the five and a half fur-
longs Diamond Jubilee Purse in 1.12}. In the run-off
Ironsides was favorite at 6 to 4 against, and he won by a
neck from Revenge, Eva a bad third. At Brighton,
Tasmania, on May 24, 1899, Lena, 11.3, Fidelis, 9.7, and
Melody, 7.12, dead-heated in the Lady’s Bracelet Welter
Handicap. The tote paid out on the three horses, and
then Fidelis was scratched from the run-off, his owner
being one of the donors of the bracelet trophy. Lena
went out a 2 to 1 favorite in run-off and won by a length.
At Mansfield, Victoria, in March 1894, Pride, Barmaid and
Shamrock ran a dead-heat in the Hurdle Race. Run-off
Pride won. In Kalgoorlie triple dead-heat in 1899, run-off
was won by Iscariot from Yale Lock and Onslow, the last
named being dead lame when saddled up the se oo ™*
time. Also the comparatively recent quadruple dead-
heat on the Barrier might be cited.
* * * *
The proprietors of Wolfe’s Schnapps are offering
some monetary encouragement to Australian cricketers
in the first test match against England. Each Australian
batsman to score 50 runs will have the privilege of
schnapping a sovereign, and 6d. for every run over 50,
with an additional five sovereigns on attaining the
coveted centur3 r . They also encourage fieldsmen to make
a little extra effort by offering a sovereign for every catch
dismissing an Englishman. Thus every body is urged on
by patriotism and schnapps except the bowler, who is
only urged by patriotism.*
* • * *
“Yarrum”: Short time ago I entered a little
moke at a country meeting for what was called a
scrubbers’ race. The prize was £2, and many trained
horses were let in. I never bet, and was surprised to
find my humble, struggling neddy made favorite. He
battled, with about 29 others, over three furlongs, and
got home in front. I gave the jockey—disqualified boy
from Sydney— £l for his services. “ Wot’s this?” he
asked. Told him half the prize. “ Why, strike me
pink,” said he—“ I could have got three quid from the
books to pull the cow ! ” Whereat I laughed a fiendish
laugh. If my horse had been stiffened I believe they
would have all been stiff, and the spectacle of 30 horses
all trying to lose a £2 race would have been something
worth seeing.
A certain Captain Pearce has been writing
to the Times in scurrilous terms of Australasia —
of its awful labor conditions, the curse of demo-
cracy, and the rest of it; and he endeavors to
show that the people are falling over one another
in their hurry to get out of the blasted country.
Says this person :
Happening to be on board of a ship bound from Maori-
land to England, via Argentina, and finding that among
the passengers a large number were emigrating from
Maoriland and Australia to Argentina, I took the trouble
to question them to find out why they were leaving the
so-called working men’s “Paradise,” and the reply was
the same right through. They were leaving because
there was no chance of their rising out of the ruck of
labor. . . . The condition of these colonies is pitiable,
and the vast emigration which is taking place to Canada,
South Africa, and Argentina is a proof that our energetic
mechanic and artisan recognises that democracy means
ruin to him, and he must try some other country.
Just here W. P. Reeves, Agent-General for
Maoriland, dropped heavily on the bombastic
little Captain and wiped him out in one act. He
enlightened the Times thus :
Let us see how this impressive and melancholy picture
agrees with fact. I fancy that lam not astray in identify-
ing your correspondent with A. W. Pearce, a saloon
passenger in the steamer Rimutaka, which left Wellington,
Maoriland, in August last, and touched at Monte Video
on its way to London. The Rimutaka is a roomy steamer,
and might easily have held the large number of ruined
hut energetic mechanics and artisans referred to by Mr.
Pearce. Unfortunately for him, however, the ship
appears to have done nothing of the kind. Indeed, as
for Maoriland emigrants, a careful scrutiny of the list of
her third-class passengers reveals amongst them only one
Maoriland resident booked for South America. This
solitary person, moreover, was a woman —an Irish
woman.


m
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
m.
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER
AND A PEN CARBON BOOK
Makes a complete outfit with which any MAN, WOMAN or CHILD can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without leaving the slightest sign of copying on the original.
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank cheques. It leaves no vague,
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
It will save any house or family much money by its indisputable record.
Bole Agents for
Australasia:
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE.
H
MAKERS OP
Continental
Caoutchouc and
Guttapercha Co.,
HANOVER
H
Continental Motor Tyres (Winners of Oordon Bennett Oup, 1003)
“Wallace” Continental Bicycle Tyres
“Wallace” Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
Total Yearly Output—NEARLY ONE MILLION TYRES.
DEPOT AT
Wallace Pneumatic Tyre Co.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
274 Flinders St., Melbourne,
Makers of All Kinds of Rubber floods, such os
STEAn HOSE
DRILL HOSE
BREWERS’ HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
SOLID SHEET
VALVES
PACKINGS
GLOVES
INSERTION SHEET
BILLIARD RUBBERS
FOOTBALL BLADDERS
RUBBER BELTING
RINGS and BANDS
PATENT TUBING
GAS TUBINO
I.R. BALLS
General Agents for Australia
HESSELMANN & GO.
34 Queen St.,
'•^Melbourne
m
THE BICYCLE YOU SHOULD BUY.
The 1903 Model
RED BIRD BICYCLE
Built for Speed and Strength. Every part of a RED BIRD can be duplicated. The Bearings and Chain-
Wheels are absolutely accurate, thus the RED BIRD runs very easily and lasts for years. Cash or terms.
Seco takcm^ ll partßayment. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St, Sydney
“ T.H.” from Melbourne :
The yellow and green squabble has been fairly launched
at, the Victorian Federal elections. A week ago Dill
Manky had his health proposed at a breakfast, luncheon,
sandwich, bun or some other such feast, and in response
talked yellow politics until the whole country seemed
turned into a great lemon. A few days later Archbishop
Carr was given a breakfast by the Catholic young men of
the community and talked green politics till everything
looked like an unripe apple or a mouldy umbrella. And
thus a miserable sectarian squabble is projected into the
national politics of the Commonwealth.
Thank heaven it is only the churches which have
this moral disease. If stamp-collectors, foot-
ballers, cricketers, chessists, weather prophets,
dog-fanciers, pugilists and so on got down to the
clerical level, and insisted on subordinating the
interests of Australia to the advertisement of
their pet crazes, this would be a dreadful place.
f’OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
x ONE COEEEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,” ~9tS
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. fV. ELLIS.
SHARPSHOOTIN6
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nbtt.:
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUAIS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
m
SOFTENS THE |
HARSHEST BEARD
WILLIAMS’
m
A Soothing
Influence—
Williams’
Shaving
Stick.
My Silent Partner—
WILLIAMS’ BARBER’S BAR.
m
itSPEvery Bai
weighs Sixteen
Honest English
Ounces , divi-
ded into Six
Cakes. Not
SOLD IN SLICJES.
J. B. Williams
Co., Glaston-
bury,Conn., U.
S.A., 232 Clar
ence St., Syd-
1)1 y i 362 a Little Collins St., Melbourne I
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
The representative book of Australian humor—
STEELE RUDD’S
“On Our Section.”
CHAS GILBERT’S
03UUZ (Ok
SOFT SHIRTS BY MAIL.
The pick and oream of soft shirts for summer
wear are here. Well fitting and comfort giving.
All seams double stitched and gussetted. In
canvas mat, cellular, or silk stripes,
3/6, 4/6 and 5/6
Cream silk stripe |J /|J , ft A
Cashmere D/D and O/ D
8/6 and 10/6
Carriage Free anywhere.
When ordering state size of collar worn, “I’ll
do the rest,” and if you’re not satisfied
“Your money cheerfully and promptly
returned.”
Write to-day for patterns and self-measure-
ment forms. To-morrow never comes.
E
i
m
B
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
• •
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.—The ex-
perience of millions of people in all quarters of
the habitable globe during the last quarter of a
century has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos
as the best and safest natural aperient. Invalu-
able to diners-out.*
SfFfK*
'J.FJP
Woo°
OO
200°
Spo
mo°&
op o
PooXo#)0°
QoS2cfib3
oPo2
00
oP?o3
Oo
oQ
P«Oq
Qo
oQ
00.
OO
?o
Oo2P
00 00
OPQ
oP
OO
OP
00
Vulcanised
for Comfort €r
Durability.
Guaranteed .for 12 nonihs.
Beware of Imitations.
Trade
m
Mark.
N,S,W* House
150 Clarence Street,
Sydney,
Moses M'Tavish, ye ken ! At the St.
Andrew’s Day dinner in Adelaide this Satur-
day (Nov. 28th), the two principal toasts are to be
proposed by Jacobs and Cohen. Yet, what was
it that Max O’Rell said about the fate of the only
Hebrew who ever tried to set up in business in
Aberdeen ?
Gilded candidates who think that they can
easily dodge the Federal electoral law which
limits their expenses will probably fall in with a
splash. The idea seems to prevail in some places
that they can permit some dear, devoted friend
(to whom they have lent a trifle) to pay for them.
But section 171 covers even the dear friend’s pay-
ments :
Electoral expenses include all expenses incurred by or
on behalf of or in the interest of any candidate.
The maximum amount allowed a candidate for
the Reps, is .£100 ; for a would-be Senator, £250.
WOO KIN SAN, Shanghai, China, March 26,
1899, writes:
“For a very long time I have been afflicted with A
CHRONIC COUGH. A friend recommended Jayne’s
Expectorant. I bought one bottle, and since taking it
am so much better that I gladly recommend it.”*
The average appeal to the woman voter
runs something like this (from the Launceston
Examinee) :
May not the wife of the unprotected worker justly
complain at having to pay 10s. for a pair of boots which,
possibly, if there were no duty, she could get for 7s. ?
Which can be answered with another :
Is it better to be able to pay 10s. for a pair of boots or
to go barefoot even if boots are marked at 7s. ?
It isn’t much satisfaction to see boots (made in
Germany) marked at 7s. if, the wages being spent
in Germany, the woman voter hasn’t the 7s. to
spend—if, in short, the German has got the 7s.
instead of her own husband. As for the “unpro-
tected ” worker, there isn’t any such person. The
miner isn’t directly protected, but his wages de-
pend upon the demand for the coal or the metal,
and upon the competition for his work ; and Pro-
tection protects him by increasing the demand for
the products, and decreases the competition for
his job by providing other jobs.
“ Marque Reel ” from Wesfcralia :
Kalgoorlie Miner has dug up a new grief, and is now
twirling it wildly above its head and “ hollering ” to the
crowd. According to its way of reasoning Westralia is
only to be represented in the next Commonwealth Parlia-
ment by four Senators. This calculation is based on the
probable return of one Protectionist Senator, whose vote,
the Miner argues, will counteract that of one Foreign
Shoddyist, thus leaving an effective vote of only four
Shoddies. The fact that other States are in the same
situation, so that things are about even, is evidently
unknown at the Miner office. Anj-how, the difficulty
could be surmounted by electing six Protectionists. The
same journal unearthed a contributor in Perth who sup-
plied one column of loose notes, and then it is surmised
was drowned in his own tears shed for the sorrows of the
bootmakers under Protection. The burden of his mourn-
ful notes was that ship-loads of foreign boots meant
plentiful work and high wages, while, if Australia made
its own boots, that meant little work and low wages.
Such is the drivel the readers of the great goldfield daily
have to put up with.
Australian Treasurer Turner made one
statement at St. Kilda that was utterly unworthy
of him, and which is a blot on his honest repu-
tation :
They realised that to develop the vast territories of the
States there must be borrowing in the future. A reason-
able amounf of loan money, if well spent, brought them
back—not directly, but indirectly—all the interest they
had to pay for it.
The Bulletin says “No” to both these super-
stitions. If, after spending over £200,000,000 on
“developing the magnificent natural resources of
the country,” these resources are not paying for
their own development and yielding something
over to pay for the development of the rest of the
resources, then the rottenness of the whole business
is apparent. There’are any number of resources
in Australia which justify development out of our
own revenues, but there isn’t one that justifies
borrowing—not one, from the great Australian
Bight to Carpentaria, or from Matthew' Davies'
defunct bank in the south-east up to the murdered
nigger and De Rougernont’s flying wombat in the
farthest north-west.


4/yr.
*€N
fc\''
\
\\
k
V*
V
A
(
b
\i
Vi
►
Ns.
I,
/
NO
W3HI
TABLETS
OF
TOUR
MEMORY
WHAT ?
The Virtues of
m
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO
v
The introduction of "Pilot" Navy
Cut marks an epoch in the manu-
facture of high grade Tobaccos.
Nothing more perfect in manufac-
ture, or more consistently even and
excellent in quality has ever been
presented to Australia.
“ PILOT ” is packed in patent air-tight tins and will hold
its condition in any climate and under any circumstances.
PAIN RELIEVED.
A pain in the side or chest can be speedily
relieved if Chamberlain’s Pain Balm is at once
well rubbed into the afflicted part. First applica-
tion gives relief. Sold everywhere at Is. 6d.*
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING marine oil engines.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
ItUHiiUbfi
Ot
ftynzfb
.gt
WITH THE KING ENGINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
j. f. m;cder.m;ott & co ova;f am y,
Telephone 2671. 30 PITT STREETj SYDKTE3T-
Noiseless Underwater. «
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
A SIMPLE REMEDY
ENO’S
FOR ALL
FRUIT
IMPURITIES
OF TOE BLOOD.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE .
SALT.
I
' nosolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
v^ART
I'ITTLE
IVER
PILLSj
They TOUCH
the
LIVER
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Be Sure they are
Carter's
m
m
A Beautiful 9ct. Gold-cased
Nellie Stewart Bracelet, a
Solid Gold Shell Ring, and
a Handsome Nickel Silver
Watch,
FREE.
Simply send us your Name and Address, plainly written on a post card,
and we will send you 20 Packages of our unexcelled White Rose Perfume, in
a Box, Free ef all expense to you. You then sell the Perfume among your
friends and neighbours at 6d. per packet, and when sold, you remit us the
money you have collected, and we will send you, a’ so’utely Free, for your
trouble, the above-described 'Watch, or the Nellie Stewart Brace-
let and the Ring 1 . Both the Perfume and the Premiums are sen t abso-
lutely Free of all charges. It is an entirely new peifume, and will sell
ewily, and each customer who buys a package receives a prize ticket which entitles them to
a Beautiful Brooch, absolutely Free. Our object in making this marvellous offer, and giving
such unusual fine premiums, is to get our very superior Perfume into the hands of the public
immediately, as we are satisfied that everyone will be so well pleased with it that they will
gladly recommend it to their friends. We have hundreds of unsolicited testimonials. You
simply send your Name and Address, plainly written on a post card, and we will send the Per-
fume. No money required. We take all risk. Goods returnable if not sold. Remember we pay
all shipping expenses. NATIONAL SUPPLY CO , Ash St, Sydney, NS W.
Btftrtnets' throughout Great Britain and CtUniit.
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
l produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: DR. P. HAROLD HA.YES’ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE*
Buffalo, N. Y., U. B. A.
FOREIGN STAMFS.
riHEAP SETS.— B Turkey, M,
47 Spain, Is 6d ; 6 British
Guiana, 6d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 10 Bul-
garia, 6d; 11 Canada, 6d:
Roumania, 6d; 6 United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Rica, 4d ; 3 Victoria, 1S5(I issue,
7s 6d ; 4 Sudan, 9d ; 20 Brazil.
Is ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal,
New Catalogue of Stamps, &c., Gratis. Stamps purchased
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins at., Mslbourns.
gqmam
WESTE
lilij
m
qebsxsr
m
Premier Irvine, of Victoria, talks of hiSi
approaching resignation in the tones of one who
announces a great public calamity. Irvine’s head
has grown so large now that he probably fancies
the sea will dry up round Australia and leave a
lot of dead whale on the coast when he is gone.
Sydney Telegraph, lying wildly about
Queensland political feeling:
While Mr. Edmund Barton was, from the External
Affairs Department, stirring up dissension and creating
irritation at the prodding of the rabid anti-Philp mem-
bers of both the Federal Houses, Mr. Kingston was pin-
pricking the mercantile classes with a series of petty
interferences in the interests of his extravagantly self-
extolled political rectitude. . . . All these difficulties and
disturbances, coming one after another, and sometimes
altogether, disgusted the vast majority of the people
with Federation. So intense did the bitterness become
that at one time a serious secession movement was
threatened.
Disgusted tHb vast majority 1 And yet Kingston’s
tour of Queensland, from North to South, was a
triumphal progress. Queensland couldn’t be
fooled on the question of Kingston’s Customs
administration ; the Senator Reid case was tried
there. And the sore-headed State Premier who
babbled about secession hasn’t been able even to
keep his State job.
Sweet are the uses of euphemism ! A
cablegram (9/11/’O3) announces that a German
bounder, in command of a fort in S’Africa, lost
his temper and executed (not murdered) a Hotten-
tot chief. The tribe, in retaliation, massacred the
garrison—didn’t wipe it out in battle.
“ T.D.” : Retiring Vic. Premier Irvine’s
friends, who pretend that he isn’t set upon getting
a judgeship, allude to the great sacrifices he has
made in letting his bar practice slide and taking
the Premiership for 18 months. But Irvine was
well aware that he would drop about half his
income, and no doubt calculated that he was
getting a pretty rich advertisement which would
help him later. At any rate, his retirement is a
nasty slap in the face for the Kyabram push,
which asserted that all public servants, from the
Premier downward (or upward), were being paid
too much. Irvine, after cutting down other
people’s salaries, says he is going to retire because
his own salary, which hasn’t been cut down, is
insufficient.


SEND VS YOUE TESTIMONY
Thousands
of Weak
Men
Gravitate
to the
Freeman
and Wallace
Medical
Institute
like Pilgrims
to Mecca
Shrines.
Mr. Charles Kenninf/ham.
MR. CHARLES KENNINCHAM, principal
tenor Royal Comic Opera Company,
Sydney, says :
“For years past I have suTered
from INSOMNIA. I now sleep
reasonably well; my general health
and appetite are much improved.”
[grateful patients testify daily.
» ♦
| IV/rEN! Think of this! We receive daily from the
. -LyA most Eminent Persons in the Land, testi-
monies of Cure from Serious Diseases classed by
) Medical Men as “incurable.” Why waste your
I money by consulting* such men ? Why not write to
the Fountain Head of Professional Skill and con-
sult those qualified by experience to treat you?
> You can do this Free. \The Specialists of
1 The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute
i
have Cured more Men of their troubles than any
other similar Association of Medical Men in Aus-
-1 tralasia. Think of this. It is a big* thing to say,
but the records of the Institute prove it. Men
travel from all parts of Australia to consult them,
and thousands would be now in their graves had not
the Specialists rescued them from the regions of
Infirmity and given to them the two greatest boons
in life —Health and Happiness. Bead the testi-
monies from Mr. Kenningham and Signor Dani,
both of whom are known everywhere. We have
thousands such from grateful men.
Signor Carlo Dani.
SIGNOR CARLO DANI, the distinguished
operatic tenor of the Royal Italian
Opera Company, Sydney, writes :
“ Owing to the grest lassitude, due
to sudden climatic changes, I con-
sulted ycu and cbtalne ' great bene-
fit to my nerve system.”
We Cure Men
Radically,
Permanently
and Swiftly.
Men are
Cured to Stay
Cured by
our
Effective
Home
Treatment
Systems.
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN, Director of Institute.
We Create Daily Great Medical Triumphs,
FACTS WORTH NOTINC.
We do not ask you to pay us one penny if
we are not able to cure you. We will not
even attempt to treat you if you are “incurable.’’ We only treat those we are
certain we can benefit.’ We cure diseases of most serious import. When we cure
a man he is cured to stay cured for life. We do not stimulate unnaturally with
drugs which injure the system. All men cured by us are living advertisements
of our skill. We have practised for over thirty years in Australia, and our names
are household words.
OUR SPECIALISTS ARE UNDER A BOND OP .£lOOO.
This bond governs all medical contracts undertaken between the physician
and patient. The Chief of our Medical Staff, Dr. R. Wallace, M.D., is Regis-
tered by Medical Boards of Australia, England, and America.
By reference to any of the leading banks or commercial houses
in Syaney, patients can convince themselves as to the professional
bona-fides of our Medical Institute. It is scientific in every detail.
Its cost has been enormous, over £lOO,OOO having been expended
upon its establishment during the iast 10 years. It is known fc r and
wide by reason of the great cures effected by ifs Specialists. Its
Medical Staff comprise many of the greatest medical minds in the
Commonwealth. A patient suffering from Varicoceie, Rupture, Loss
of Vital Power, Weak or Shrunken Organs, General Debility, Heart
Disease, Cancer, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Insomnia, Kidney Disorder,
Dropsy, or Diabetes, Spinal Affections, Diseases of the Stomach,
Nerves or Blood, are all treated by Specialists who have studied the
Class of disease thoroughly. Patients may depend upon it the treat-
ment they require is the treatment they will receive, and will be such
as no other medical institution in Australia can afford them. Letters
are replied to punctually and privately, and medicines forwarded,
packed secure from breakage or observation.
Dr. R. WALLACE, M.D., Physician-Jn-Chief.
The Freeman and Wallace Medical Institute—ADVlCE free
Free—A Book Worth £lOO.
It tells every Weak Man how to get strong. It explains the
reason for the Early Decay of Manhood’s Strength and how Perfect
Vigor is restored. It tells how we have cured thousands of weak
men in Australasia during the past five years. It is a beautifully
illustrated, 570-page book, and is full of those
Candid, Plain=Spoken Truths
which have always been the medium of communication between our
patrons and ourselves during the past twenty years. It tells about
the cause and cure of “weakness” in men as men like to read it—plain
and honest, straight from the shoulder. There are other troubles
from which men suffer, such as Rheumatism, Lame Back, Varicocele,
Weak Kidneys, Sciatica, etc. It tells about these also and how
we cure them. To any man who suffers from an early breaking
down of the vital powers it is worth £lOO. “ CLINICAL
EXPERIENCES,” 570 pages,
150 Graphic Medical Plates,
31 chapters, is the Book for Sick Men. It is commended by hundreds
of Australian newspapers. It Costs You Nothing 1 , except the
postage fee of One Shilling 1 in Stamps.
Subjects Treated, comprise Insomnia, Epilepsy, Fevers,
Sunstroke, Burns and Scalds, Gunshot Wounds, Snakebite,
Drowning and Restoration, Bathing and Exercise, Treatment of
Invalids, Anatomy, Consumption, Rupture, Electricity and Cure
of Nerve Diseases, Diet, etc. A list of 50 valuable prescriptions
are also included, making the book especially valuable to country
residents, where medical men are few. Applicants should send in
at once for copies, as the edition of this work is fast being ordered.
-
38BK?-
■'•■
Mm&. iw '^*3*
SS«SS¥OBSiBISi:. *. •> -
wasa**
a ■
: I
Free for One Shilling in Stamps.
Great Journals Praise this Book.
AR,” Sydney : “ A book for the people.”
“ EVENING NEWS,” Si dney : “ A revised and enlarged edition ”
TOWN AND COUNTRY JOURNAL,” Sydney : ‘‘The Specialists
find it necessary to supplement new literary staffs.”
sho^^!t; i e A Any ° ne intereSted in inCUrable diseases
„ Kalgborhe: “‘CLINICAL EXPERIENCES’ contains much
valuable information written in a popular manner ”
i.; n ri , ;P^ Sl f R y ER ’” Adelaide • “There has never been published of its
Australia a more worthy addition to the literature of the colony.”
90 ono lV,EßCUßY ’^’’Hobart: “It is an elegantly-bound volume. Over
20,000 . . . copies are issued yearly.” er
. , WORKER,” Brisbane: “Almost every disease which flesh is heir
to has been treated within the pages of this work.”
ZEALAND MAIL” : “In this book the authors give
us much that is instructive from a physical health view-point.”
T,MES >” Perth, in “Bits about Books,” on
Ppnp h i 2 rv 19 ° 3, ? ays “‘CLINICAL EXPERIENCES’ on
General Diseases is splendidly compiled. It would be
harcl to overrate its value, nor do we ever remember
to have seen a more creditable production or one that
merits a more appreciative press notice.”
OBSERVER,” AuckIand: “A highlyinter-
esting volume. It deals with nerve com-
plaints and how to cure them.”
* ■ ! w,,Ji JER,” Kalgoorlie : “ The postal
facilities of the Institute are unique.”
“SUN,” Kalgoorlie : “Striking
cures of many so-called ‘ INCUR- °
ABLE’ diseases are effected daily.”
These are but a few from
hundreds of others, all of
which are voluntary re-
views of extreme
literary value and
merit.
<s*°
//V
*? o° ’
When under treatment all patients are under the special care of DR. R. WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.PS
Medical Expert who is registered by the Medical Boards of Australia, England and America He holds Nine
of Qualification and Registration, which may be seen at the consulting roams. His professional advices are
, E., L.M., a distinguished
Diplomas and Certificates
given free to all inquirers.
“ Boy-leader ” : Apropos of school-inspec-
tion in lieu of school-examination. City head-
master meets a boy from a suburban school where
the said headmaster was formerly First Ass. :
t . it ~ T>-n u j.*- „ «<nv,i
HuHo, Billy, how are you getting on ? Oh
n orlnte, sa. When does your a n m
examination come off U’ I d no, sa ; but it earn t
H n V °h
> -., ® Y ay , ' ve ff't wallupped fa dictatio n
nthmetic, V euchd V alg.bbera Our teacher
bloke s begun to shy things at us lately.
A Maoriland story by “N.J.K.” :
In a town in the Maoriland South Island a well-known
citizen died, and his better half buried him with great
pomp in the local cemetery, so to all appearances he was
laid in his last resting place. But the widow tired of the
fn r n,f n v n fv,’ a r n i d j ft th , e t 0 ta - e u ?, her abod f
m the -North Island, and had the remains taken up at
great expense and transferred along with her. After 18
months, not being in good health, she decided to go
south to a new town, and the poor old departed went
with her and was buried again. Then the widow tired of
this new place, so she had the coffin raised once more,
the nTd n m,n?n & • - o T nal r f esiden “; and re-buried
ine old man in hrs original cemetery. The only person
who cordially approved of these proceedings was the
original sexton. “Yes sur,” he said, “the best job I
ever lad. First we buried him ’ere, and I was paid for
*hat. T , hen we dn £ him up. I was paid for that. Then
ad the vacant lot to sell. I got a bit out of that,
And novv they have brought him back again and buried
him, and I got paid for that. But I’m afraid he’s going
to stay this time." Other people mostly held that the
constant rushing of the old man up and down the
country didn’t give his bones a chance to settle down.
Nowadays if you happen to
have some slight facility in the art of using a
brush, or a lump of charcoal, or spinning a story,
it i® the correot thing to have a studio. At first I
rather scorned the idea, but eventually decided to
geo what it was like> and now -well, there are
p o j n^s a b ou t having a studio. I had a iook round
P d j d ir fg t . Plug ’ s Buildings, and an
artist friend came round and designed the fixings,
c h mostly consisted of some spangled stuff
made in j ap / n . Then I settled down to write,
By-and-bye it chimed ten, and almost immedi-
ately after there was the faint sound of “rustle”
ascending the stairs. A whiff of perfume floated
through the half-open door and a key was softly
fitted into a lock. For an hour it went
o n, and then odors of freshly-made coffee
came stealing through the atmosphere with
„ , • T ° i , A i «
a spgffestion of beer between. A soft laugh
eddied up out of the rooms below. Ihe
building was full of women. They interested me.
Next day I investigated. There was a whole
community of them, living in a sort of modified
d restraiued Bohemianism. They had part of
~ • jrt-j.iT
the ' r , ro ? ms screened off with Japanese screens,
and their walls made gay with art muslins and
tiny pictures, and some of them ran to wall
vases and plants. They were nearly all young,
reasonably pretty, and neatly, almost fashionably
j j „ fl : d o„ nl . n„ „ wppk f nr t u; r
dreSS ’ edl l hey P * i u i i r
rooms < ff ood lar £ e ones 5 and > b y a sensible system
of co-operation among themselves, lived and
dressed for another 11s. or 12s. per week. The
advantages were perfect freedom, no petty re-
straints as to visitors, or the possession of latch-
keys—there are still in Sydney many boarding-
houses where unmarried girls and “ married ladies
whose husbands are away ” are not allowed latch-
keys. In a boarding-house they have to take the
food that is set before them ; in chambers they
obtain what they fancy, if they have money
enough. They are a gentle, well-mannered, in-
offensive crowd of nice, lonely little women, and
while my studio is in St. Plug’s Buildings I
intend to be kind to as many of them as I can.
An ex-Johorer writes :
During several visits to Johore I met the old “Sultan,"
and got to know him rather well. He was a sturdy old
Malay with a hot eye. Save in so far as the Straits
Government clipped his claws, he never permitted his
principles to stand in the way of his pleasures. His prin-
ciples would not have made much of an obstacle, anyhow.
He once imported certain white girls—French and Ger-
man—for the alleviation of his leisure. He did not call
them typewriters, because 'he was not sufficiently
civilised ; but when the Straits Government booked them
back to Europe he was an aggrieved man. He had
selected them with care, and he just hated to be baulked
in his definite intentions. The oid “Sultan” was par-
tially modernised—had Scotch officials of State, swore in
English, tippled in defiance of his gods, and played bil-
liards. For any white woman life in Johore’s Istana would
be permanent burial in a place of evil odor. When I
was first in Johore, the “ Sultan ” was playing the Roman
father with some enthusiasm. The Crown Prince was in
gaol, doing six mo dhs’ hard for the abduction of a
Chinese citizen’s wife. He started too young, and the
“Sultan” wanted no trespassers on his monopoly.
Johore is a beautiful State, largely virgin and undeve-
loped—a land of wasted plenty. To pet to the capital,
Johor Bahru, you run across the island of Singapore
(12 miles in a ’rikshaw, and across the shallow strait (a
mile or less) in a sampan. (The lithe Malayan tigers
swim across this strait, and make things lively on Singa-
pore plantations. Oats sometimes take to water.) At
Johor Bahru are many modern improvements : an English
club, a post and telegraph office, the world, the flesh, and
the devil. Johore, like Tasmania, farms a gambling
monopoly, and at the big casino the fat Chinese crowd
about the tables, cheek by jowl with ladies of question-
able character, kept for convenience on the premises.
Picnicking missionaries from Singapore find Jolior
Bahru singularly picturesque. So did I.
“Polstan ” : Re risky boilers (“ Yarram”,
8.24/9/’03): lonce went with anengineerto inspect
a second-hand boiler that was under offer to a
flour-milling company. He asked permission to
try one of the plates with a small punch. The
owners wouldn’t allow it, so he passed that kettle
out. A few weeks later it was purchased for
a factory, and the first time it was put under
pressure burst and killed a man. Asked the
engineer why he had suspected the thing. “It
was freshly painted inside,” he said, “and paint
hides many flaws. Never buy a boiler that is
painted inside.”
Unconscious slab of humor from Austra-
lasian Catholic Record in an article on Thomas
More:
One blow of the headsman’s axe, as our own Cardinal
so beautifully put it, gave to the brightest genius and
noblest heart in England, the unfading crown of a
glorious martyr.


TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
SUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Night*
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains remoTed bj BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of aU Stares.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has do equal. I have
Used it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, MJ>,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S
WORSDiLL’S
PILLS
Are a certain Core far Indigestion, Biliousness, Bead ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaint' *e
Of all Stores,
Amusements.
The new her majesty’s theatre.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS of
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Famous and Ever Welcome
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in
A COUNTRY GIRL.
Box Plan at Paling’s. £3T PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
THE CHARLES HOLLOWAY DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Merry, Picturesque, Sensational Play,
A BAD CHARACTER,
A BRILLIANT and PRONOUNCED SUCCESS.
POPULAR PRICES.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sub-Lessee & Manageress, MissFITZMAURIOE GILL.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of MISS FITZMAURICE GILL’S
DRAMATIC SEASON.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), LAST NIGHT Of
PRODIGAL PARSON.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 27, Last Night of the Season,
EAST LYNNE.
PRICES—Bs, 2s, & Is. No Early Doors. Plan at Elvy’s.
H E ATR E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Under the Sole Direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 28,
Re-appearance in Sydney for a Brief Farewell Season of
MR. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
GRAND COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
including the Eminent Basso, Mr. LEMPRIERE PRINGLE,
in the New and Original Spanish Comic Opera,
THE S E R DE3 TNT A. D E.
Prices —ss, 3s, and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
OWN
HALL,
8 Y D N E Y.
SATURDAY NIGHT, 28th NOVEMBER,
PEOPLE’S POPULAR CONCERTS
PEOPLE'S POPULAR CONCERTS
McADOO’S ORIGINAL
FISK JUBILEE SIN6CRS.
GRAND FAREWELL CONCERT.
Plan at White Rose Confectionery Co., Pitt-street.
Reserved Seats, 2s.
YCEUM THEATRE, 8 Y D N E Y.
Lessee Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv MISS EUGENE DUGGAN, in
THE FAVORITE.
SAT. NEXT, NOV. 28, THE PAINTED WOMAN.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
SATURDAY,
SATURDAY,
NOV. 28
NOV. 28
SATURDAY.
SATURDAY.
MISS
MISS
CORNELIA
CORNELIA
MAY-LITTLE
MAY-LITTLE
THE GREAT AMERICAN CONTRALTO,
CENTENARY HALL, YORK STREET.
Plan at Paling’s. 6s, 3s, 2s. J. EDWARD SYKES.
the MU TO SCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES.
KING STREET ARCADE
OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels.
Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAST TWO NIGHTS IN AUSTRALIA of
MADAM MARZELLA.
Last Two Nights of America’s Comedy Sketch Artists,
FREDERICK \ . j MOLLY
HALLEN J and \ FULLER
RAY JONES. ERNEBT FITTS.
THE TWO COLLIERS, Mr. EDWARD FORD,
Miss NITA LEETE, Mr. ERNEST SULLIVAN,
Miss PEARL LOVELL, Mr. GEORGE BENTLEY,
Mr. LES WHARTON, and all our Great Co.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE CIRNOCS.
3 THE DUMONDS 3
THE MICRO-BIOBCOPE.
DE WYNNE BROTHERS. ALBERTO.
THE POWERS BROTHERS.
WILL WHITBURN, FRED. RIVENHALL, ROBERT
NEEDHAM, IRVING SAYLES.
Her majesty’s theatre, Melbourne
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Willi am. sos.
COMPLETE SUCCESS of Mr. BEERBOHM TREE’S CO.,
including
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUB KNIGHT in
THE ETERNAL CITY,
by Hall Caine.
First Time in Australia.
MAUD JEFFRIES.. ..as....DONNA ROMA VOLONNA
JULIUS KNIGHT....as....DAVID ROSSI.
-f*HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. .. C. Simonsens.
EVERY EVENING. FOURTH WEEK of
Bland Holt’s Dramatic Co.
in
The Great Millionaire,
by Cecil Raleigh and Arthur Collins.
FORCIBLE, POWERFUL, and ARTISTIC.
Prices—3s. 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
QUEEN’B HALL, MELBOURNE.
BOXING 26,
MR. HERBERT FLEMMING presents
MEL. B. SPURR,
ENGLAND’S GREATEST SOCIETY ENTERTAINER,
and
Endorsed by the Melbourne Press and Public.
Advance Rep., C. H. WHATTE.
Summer Sensations by the Sea.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES
AND
TOBOGGANING
Steyne Court, MANLY*
Open Early in December.
AND DON’T FORUET
THE FIERY DRaGON.
A little private Bill, struggling along with
Government help through the Westralian Parliament,
throws an interesting side-light on pearl-shelling. The
old trick of the Asiatic diver or lugger-hand was to
swallow the pearl when he found it and the boss hadn’t
his eyes that way. The boss hired more eyes to watch,
and then the mild heathen thought of something else.
He works in collusion with a “dummying” boat, and
when he strikes a patch, leaves it and leads the boss and
the boat away, but gives the dummy the signal to get
there. The Bill asks power to wipe the dummy out.
Euchre isn’t the only game that Ah Sin can play.
* » * *
The Friday lode of the North Boulder (W.A.)
is a continuation of the Oroya-Brown Hill lode. The
lode on the outcrop forms a semi-circle, and has a very
flat but irregular underlay to the west. The rich chute
outcropped in the Brown Hill, and runs diagonally
through the lode with a dip of 18deg. to the south, but
gradually getting steeper. It was expected in Oroya’s
Pomeroy shaft at 700 ft., judging from the bore, but was
found to be 100 ft. east. Pomeroy shaft itself is 250 ft.
east of the Kalgurli boundary. The westerly underlay,
as stated in Bulletin of 17th Sept., carries the rich chute
to about the middle of the Oroya’s southern boundary-
line before reaching the Associated. Unless the chute
dies out suddenly, it must be found in the Associated, as
the Oroya has followed it almost to the boundary. All
the ore in the Friday lode was worked out to the Asso-
ciated boundary four years ago, since when the North
Boulder has been a dead bird. The non-locating of the
lode by the Associated proves nothing, except that boring
on these fields is often a waste of money. On the Rand the
boring is through stratified rocks, or sandstone, and the
bores are not so liable to deflection.
* • * *
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), tributors con-
tinue to do well, and have already treated 92 tons for
6900 z. As the co. gets paid for crushing and collars a
large royalty, it comes out better than if working the
ground itself. The Vosperton property looks well, but
the reef is too small for a highly capitalised co. A signifi
cant fact is that manager Henderson, who has been con-
nected with the co. for years, has resigned, to take the
Princess Royal Central, Norseman. This latter concern
looks like a very good gamble, judging from its position,
as a deep-level proposition.
* * • *
Up to now, the Westralian State batteries and
cyanide works have treated 143,000 tons of ore for
£705,000 worth of gold, most of which would never have
been mined but for the Government battery. These bat-
teries are now practically self-supporting, except that
nothing is allowed for depreciation, and, sooner or later,
the amount expended will have to be written-off as lost.
But, on the credit side, is the vast amount of good done
to the State by opening up new goldfields.
• * * *
A new find of telluride has been made at Mul-
gabbie (W.A.), about 80 miles north-east of Kanowna.
The place has long been famous for very rich alluvial—
now worked out—and for being intersected by very rich
quartz leaders, yielding up to hundreds of ounces per ton
in patches. On one of the deserted dumps a fossicker
recently picked up some stone, or said he did, which he
thought looked like telluride, and sent it to Kalgoorlie
for analysis ; and the analyst certified that it was telluride
ore worth 4550 z. per ton. Needless to state that the
country for a mile or two round has been pegged, but
this will -lead to nothing unless capital can be wooed.
The quartz-leaders have been followed to water-level
(90ft.), the limit of a fossicker’s tether.
* * * *
Ivanhoe South Extended (W.A. ), a block of 22
acres west of the Horseshoe, has cut a lode by diamond
drilling at a depth of 1920 ft. The core is said to assay
loz. 15dwt. per ton. The lode is alleged to be 14ft. from
the boundary, but, as nearly all deep bore holes on the
fields have been deflected 300 to 400 ft., this lode may not
be in the Extended’s area at all. The directors have,
however, decided to sink the main shaft to 2000 ft. to
thoroughly test the ground. The shaft is down 821 ft.,
and has been at a standstill for over a year, while
directors have been nursing the £50,000 in hand. The
concern is managed by J. W. Sutherland, of the Horse-
shoe, who'should know the character of the ground well.
The co. is in 150,000 shares and the block is in a fairly
good position, but, until something is really found, the
scrip is a pure gamble. Of course, there is room for a
very big rise if a really payable lode is located.
*'* * *
Paddington Consols (W.A.) has, apparently,
again come to the end of its tether, and all wages hands
have been fired out. The main shaft is still being sunk
to 500 ft., that work being on contract. The mine has
proved so poor at 400 ft. that it may be taken for granted
that it has seen its best days, and it is questionable if
work will be resumed. The wild-cats of W.A. have been
numerous and lusty, but 1903 has rung the death knell of
most of the litter. Another of them, the Lady Loch, is
nearing its end.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) has come out with its
initial crushing of 1000 tons for 7720 z., but the bullion is
worth only about 675. an oz. The slimes plant, however,
was not operating, so a better average may be looked for
in future. No costs are given, and, as the mill could easily
have done another 200 tons of the soft, oxidised ore, and
not have burst itself, sceptics have doubts about the
tonnage. A parcel of 110 tons of telluride ore was also
treated at Cockle Creek for 5420 z. of fine gold and 17040 z.
of fine silver. That is the trouble with the sulphide ore
that, though the average runs fairly high, the bulk of
the bullion is silver. Speculators who take a hand in
the deal must bear in mind that no development is
being done, and that the mine has no established per-
manency.
* * * *
Paringa, Kalgoorlie(W. A.), has had its diamond
drill bore tested by Bawden’s plumb bob, which makes
out that the bore is 360 ft. askew. As the bore is right in
the corner of the lease, it may have gone anywhere, but,
as it found nothing of value, it matters little where it
went. The co. is still boring, but what it expects to find
nobody but the board has the slightest idea.
* * * *
Donelly River, in the south-west of Westralia,
is the place where the alleged find of platinum, tin, and
gold, recently mysteriously talked of by the Minister for
Mines, was made. Some sort of a rush has taken place,
though old prospectors have sniffed and reflected that
the high assay-figures quoted represent the contents of
concentrates, and don’t give the smallest idea of the
value of the crudes. The Minister would have been wiser
had he held his tongue till more inquiries were made.
* * * *
S. Australia’s one coal-mining co.—the Leigh’s
Creek Co.—has had a life of trouble. The deposit,
which is in the Far North, was discovered 12 years ago,
and an Adelaide co. was formed to work it. The stuff,
something between lignite and ordinary bituminous coal,
burns well enough, but has not been able to Compete
with the Newcastle product in the Adelaide market, and
the railway people insist that it is out of the question for
loco, steaming. Practically no work has been done on
the mine for two or three years; the co. has spent its
time and a few calls frying to induce the Railway
Department to alter its mind. Incidentally it has tried
to sell the mine, but can’t get an offer; and as the
calling power is now about exhausted, it looks as if
S.A.’s one coal co. will soon throw up the sponge.
• * * •
Bendigo’s October output, 24,8860 z., was the
biggest month’s record for 28 years.
Madame Berry West (Creswick, Vie.) had, to
the beginning of November, won £458,052 worth of gold,
of which £17,598 was credited to the past six months.
The half-year’s profit was £4499, or ss. Bd. in the £ of the
gross receipts. On a paid-up capital of £11,700 the divi-
dends have so far amounted to £70,337 ; and the outlook
is still good. t . *
Croydon (N.Q.) has been disappointing this
vear, during the last quarter especially. For the first
nine months 41,363 tons gave 46,6180 z. ; this is 39950 z.
better than last year’s, but the average per ton is poorer.
The October yield was 62090 z. from 3625 tons stone ;
average 34dwt., but then the bullion was worth only
£2 3s. an ounce. For the last four months £7BOO has
been paid in divs. ; calls have reached £2680. Golden
Gate Consols is doing best ; Roger’s, though a fair pro-
ducer, is spending what it earns in exploration. The
outside mines are not up to expectations.
♦ * * *
Stannary Hills, Is. Id. For the fortnight (to
November 16), 653 tons for 26 tons of 70 per cent, tin—
MISS CORNELIA MAY-LITTLE,
American Contralto.
under 3 per cent, of metallic tin ! And yet the manager
cheerfully admitted lately that the ore was being picked.
It isaworse fizzle for Adelaide than either Ohillagoe or
Smith’s Creek.
• • * •
Maoriland’s coal output is growing to something
sizeable. Last year it was 1,366,000 tons, or 126,364 tons
more than in 1901. The Westport Co. was responsible
for over 600,000 tons of this. The old Brunner mine,
also on the West Coast of the South Island, gave 116,714
tons. But the Brunner is nearing its end ;it is living
now simply by taking out its pillars. The Blackball
ranks third among West Coast mines outside the West-
port Co.’s. On the East Coast, only the Kaitangata
(118,050 tons) can compare with these. In the North
Island the Taupiri (89,263 tons) heads the list, and few
others approach it. The Westport Co.’s most productive
mine now is, and for some time past has been, the
Denniston ; there about 200,000 tons a year are hewn with
the percussive pick machine, worked by compressed air.
Only about a quarter of the output is now got out in the
old laborious way. M.L. is ahead of N.S.W. in that
matter.
* * * *
Adelaide Sewage Farm announces a profit of
£660 on its last year’s working, and that after paying to
the Government not only rent (12s. an acre), but 5 per
cent, on capital invested. Bedford Hack, the resident
manager, told an Advertiser, interviewer that he had not
had a day’s illness during his 14 years there, while his
daughter, who caught typhoid in Melbourne, had to
return home to get well 1 “ The sewage farm is a sana-
torium.”
* * * *
Queensland’s new Minister for Mines recently
directed wardens that only on exceptional occasions were
mining exemptions to be granted in future. This action
was in consequence of the large number of applications
for exemptions coming before him ; present game being,
he said, for persons to apply for land all round a pro-
mising new show', make application for exemption even
before the land had been allotted them, then sit back
and wait for cash offers.
Since the advertisement on another page
was printed, the art proofs of Phil May’s “Curio-
sity in Her Own Country” and “Majesty of the
Law ” have been exhausted. There remain only
a few copies of the other subjects, for which early
application is recommended.
Coincident with the departure of two
visitors from his abode, t’other day, a North Shore
(Sydney) resident found that a considerable
portion of his worldly wealth had departed also.
Police investigation showed that the victim had
contracted the foolish habit of putting his hoard
(400 sovereigns) in a tea-pot, which was, in turn,
placed in a kerosene tin, and the tin hidden under
some rubbish in a lumber room. The intense care
displayed in hiding a worthless kerosene tin
probably attracted attention and then trouble
followed quite naturally.
The English Cricketers seem a persevering lot,
likely to make a big bid for the Test rubber.
Whether they succeed or not in their long-winded
enterprise, the fact remains that D.C.L. Whisky
wins every match against brain fag and “that
tired feeling.” The vim of those business men
who take D.C.L. for their tonic makes them feel
that they are on a good wicket all the time.
They play the game with confidence. D.C.L.
gives that mental alertness and endurance so
necessary to one who means to keep his wicket up
and run his fortune into five figures.*
This, from Sydney Telegraph of last
Tuesday, is a pathetic instance of the yelp of
discomfiture trying to pass itself off as the shout
of triumph :
Protectionists in Australia habitually deny that a
country which has a revenue tariff has*a right to claim
that it enjoys Freetrade. But let them listen to this
“ I see that your revenue must always, probably, and
certainly for a long while to come, depend chiefly upon
indirect taxation. But in my mind, 'whenever customs
duties are balanced by excise duties, or u'henever they are
levied on articles which are not produced at home, the
enforcement of such duties is no derogation from the
principles of Freetr tde, as I understand it.”— Chamberlain
in the Imperial Conference, 1902.
Therefore, by the Telegraph’s own showing,
N.S.W. never had anything dimly resembling
Freetrade, and there isn’t one Freetrade paper
or politician in N.S.W. who seems to want
Freetrade. The N.S.W. Freetrade policy has
always been to levy large customs duties on all
manner of things that can be produced locally,
and not to balance them by excise duties, and
then to lie about the business. On the definition
of Freetrade which the Telegraph advances, the
whole Parkes-Reid-Brucepunipkin- Smith-Joe-
Cook-Pulsford crowd is about the cheekiest traitor
and backslider going.
At Poverty Point.
Miss Francis Adler—grand-daughter of Madame
Simonsen—has now won a measure of good fortune by
her grit. A chorus-girl with a promising voice in
Australia, she went to England, and, by singing at “the
halls,’’ accumulated enough cash to pay for a course
under Marchesi. Now Marchesi cables that Miss Adler
has a three years engagement at the Paris Opera
Comique—one of the four State theatres of Paris. This
puts a mint-mark of approval on the Melbourne singer
which will vouch her as good currency in almost any
part of the world.
Looks as though a certain theatrical manager and
his leading lady have arrived at a final and complete
misunderstanding this time.
Seems that John Billington was 62 when he came to
Australia as principal supporter of that aged and old-
fashioned comedian, J. L. Toole. He was 76 the other
day when he received £BOO from a benefit performance at
the Haymarket Theatre, London,
It would be interesting to hear what Madame Marzella
has to say about parrot language. The French traveller,
Du Ohaillu, states from his own experience that parrots
brought together from different parts of the world are
foreigners in language, but after six months of teaching
one another they can converse fluently.
Salvarmy “ Austral Guards ” band, at present touring
N.S. Wales, struck bad luck on its north-western trip.
On November 6th one of the baritones was drowned
while bathing in the Namoi at Gunnedah, and several
days later the wife of the major in charge suicided by
drowning at Moree.
Mel. B. Spurr, the entertainer, confesses to the front
names of Melancthon Burton, the latter presumably after
the anatomist of melancholy.
In Tree’s revival of “Richard II.,” at Her Majesty’s,
London, throughout the earlier portions of the play the
hapless king is accompanied by a greyhound, which, in
the well-known scene in Flint Oastle, deserts its master
for the usurper, Bolingbroke. This bit of doggy faith-
lessness (founded on a historical fact, vouched for by
Froissart) fetches the house.
“0.K.”: Somebody wants to know what I meant by
saying “ One gets so tired of hearing that Ada Orossley
is a good woman.” My words are not exactly quoted,
I fancy; nevertheless, I accept the quotation as correct,
and rise to explain that from my point of view the
excellence or depravity of an artist’s moral character—
the virtue or viciousness of her life—matters not a
tinker’s anathema to any intelligent person who is
considering the artist as an artist. The same inquirer
wishes to know why I dragged Madame Sterling into my
remarks. I didn’t drag her in. She got there in the
natural course of comparison. Madame Sterling, like
Ada Crossley, was praised as much for her private
virtues as for her public vocalism. And The Bulletin at
|he time professed great tiredness of Antoinette.
“Marat”: Once in the long ago I knew an artist who
hired himself for poster work to a travelling co. He was
engaged at a salary of £4 a week, and was told to pur-
chase all necessary materials out of his own pocket, and
charge to the manager. He did so, and made the hoard-
ings at Granville picturesque with flaring posters of
“ East Lynne." He got 2s. after the Granville season of
two nights, with which he bought more ink to elec-
trify Campbelltown. Here he received Is. 6d., which went
in ink for Picton. Picton brought him Is., and the
supply of posters for Moss Vale was small in consequence.
His “draw” at Moss Vale was 6d., which he spent in
beer, so Goulburn did not receive a single specimen of
his handiwork. The boss of the co. was enraged, and
said things, so the poster-artist went out, traded off a
black and white sketch for 65., and took out a summons
against the manager for £l2, wages due, and 18s. 6d.
spent for paper, inks, &c. He settled outside the court
for 7s. 6d. and his fare back to Sydney.
Ada Crossley struck an old friend in Adelaide the
other day in. the Rev. Henry Howard, who has lately
taken to Bible-thumping at Adelaide Tivoli. She con-
fessed to an interviewer that she used to play the organ
for him at his church in Gippsland—or, rather, she played
at the Anglican church in the morning, the Presby-
terian in the afternoon, and at the Methodise in the
evening. Ada was a persistent church-goer in her bush
days when her youthful hair was still hanging down her
back.
“ H.”: Maoriland has been a great show-field for the past
three or four years, and hardly a case can be quoted
where a reputable company has not done well. At
present there are evidences of a slump in this direction,
and with plenty of cause. There are only four places
that can be called cities—Auckland, Wellington, Christ-
church and Dunedin ; other towns worth visiting are
under the five-figure limit. Yet these places have been
marvellously catered for. Tiny townships have been
invaded by big J.C.W. combinations, with the result that
the standard of production is quite abnormal, and the
ordinary good show is finding itself “ up against it.”
It sounds ridiculous, but the Cuyler Hastings production
of “If I Were King” was seen at Waipawa (population
between 2000 and 3000), before it was in Melbourne ; and
Williamson’s Musical Comedy Cos., out for an airing in
Blenheim and Nelson, gave the streets an uncomfortably
crowded appearance. Then the bottom fell out, as if the
thing had been done with a can-opener. The “ Fortune-
Teller ’’ crowd has done very poor business. Frawley’s
season started at the thick end of the wedge and rapidly
got to the thin end, and stayed there—at Auckland.
Business in Wellington started thin and remained so,
though the show was one of very high merit. The
“Dream” production, at present at Auckland, doesn’t
look like paying expenses. The slump has surely come,
and managers will do well to stand off for 12 months, and
let the little Maoriland towns do with the small, wander-
ing shriekodramady company, which is really the thing
their case calls for.
Lands Minister Crick (N.S. W.) is a good
deal of a free-lance. When, the other night,
Works Minister O’Sullivan proposed that the
recommendation of the Public Works Committee
with regard to the water-supply of Broken Hill
should be carried into effect, Crick tabled an
amendment, apparently in favor of the Yanco
Glen syndicate’s scheme. Presumably what the
Owe’-Sullivan proposed is the Government policy
in the matter; but Crick went “on his own,” and
won. The whole question, consequently, goes
back to the Public Works Committee —it has been
doing that, or thereabouts, ever since there was a
Works Committee.
This is how Senator Stewart—who is going
to top the Queensland poll for the Senate, if the
electors know a straight and able man when they
see him —answers questions on the hustings :
Q. : Are you a Republican ?
A. : Yes ; I do not- believe in hereditary monarchs any
more than hereditary mayors or hereditary members of
Parliament.
Q. : Did you sit down when “ God save the Queen” was
being sung?
A. : Yes; when I was making an anti-war speech in
Rockhampton in the Jingo days. The audience broke
out with the National Anthem. I seized the opportunity
to take a rest and sat down.
Q. : Did you attack Mr. Samuel Griffith on his elevation
to the distinguished position of Chief Justice of the
Commonwealth ?
A. : Yes; Mr. Griffith, as a politician, betrayed the
trust of the people. I only hope that he will leave a
cleaner record behind, when he retires from the bench,
than he left when he retired from politics.
Q. : Are you a Protectionist ?
A. : Yes ; lam an out-and-out Protectionist. I believe
in protecting our manufactures from unfair foreign com-
petition ; our workmen from alien immigration ; our
wage slaves from the extortions of monopolists and
usurers and sweaters. I believe in protecting everything
that is in the interest of Australian manhood and an Aus-
tralian nation.
No Yes-No quibbling about these answers


The Bulletin’s Christmas number will
be issued on 10th December. The Bulletin’s
Christmas number has been good in the past.
This year it will be better.
The N.S.W. Government, having had its
credit stopped, now makes a cheerful pretence
that it left off its large borrowing policy volun-
tarily, because a good season had arrived ; that it
always intended to leave off; and that it always
regarded its big-loan devices as a mere temporary
scheme to alleviate the drought trouble. ‘ ‘ When
men were shipwrecked,” said Premier See, the
other day, “ I sent out the lifeboat.” But surely
it is customary to send out our own lifeboat—not
a borrowed one. And it isn’t usual to expect the
rescued men and their descendants to pay 3| per
cent, interest on the lifeboat for ever afterwards.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Violent communication from a visitor to
Victorian Assembly:
The leadership of the Victorian Assembly Is a scandal,
unless it is a matter of jumping on the servants of the
state for the amusement and gratification of Kyabram,
Iceberg Irvine and Croaking Shiels are rarely in the
House. Then the cumbrous Bent, who is really one of
, ? niost utterly incapable men of the crowd, or poor
old Cameron, takes charge, and the foolishness of the
proceedings is too dreadful for words. If James Howling
Uraves happens to be in the chair, the foolishness is too
“ ‘°r rational thought. It is a pork-pie nightmare
added to delirium tremens. During the discussion of the
Mines Act Amendment Bill in committee, Cameron and
M Leod the most cocksure Tories the House has seen for
ay ' j ft " the show - Amendments fell thick upon
tne table, and the two Ministers sat and stared at them,
not knowing what to do. Several times Cameron rose
and mumbled into the ear of chairman Graves, who
mumbled back into Cameron’s whiskers, and then there
was an arrest of the work for five minutes, while a
ni.!m!I Ker - Was ~s ent to float the Iceberg round into the
if l " ,° v r<l f r t 0 straighten out the tangle. If it
*"* n °t for the fact that the bulk of the members are
bn « mummies, the Irvine Government
would not now last a month. As it is, the mummies are
afraid to move for fear of falling to pieces.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when yon
Fin*,* fin B* r on the inflamed part it leave! the imprei-
•ion / If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
t. t P ’ ,our •‘P*** are swollen, the Joints being
“ 5® r ? te , ’ the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
’ . Yo . u , m «y have attended various hospitals and had
Hi*Jr J?.* dv ?.*’ . and been tol<l y° ur case ! * hopeless, or
to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
others h.v.i M d ,°? * Bajr l ,erha P» i but I WILL. Because
Keirt !." ed u "° rcaBoD for not how being cured,
oenaat once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
£ ertail 2, remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
llands, lumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores
AMia-HT 1 ’ 79 Q 1 at ® rl,ain ' 1/I<d ’ per box - Prepared by
, 7^Jv.VllD * don ' B,r * et " London, England.
lookVHr th'l' 1 ' I Sydney. Purchasers should
sTMn ?oi ,i^ registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Kegd. copyright).
DO YOU EVER
WATCH A CHILD
when the little child is suffering from
teething troubles ? It is at this period that
convulsions often attack children and you have
the horror of witnessing their really acute
sufferings always a pitiable thing where
children are concerned. It is such a mistake
to make light of teething troubles, just because
they have to happen ! But it is not necessary
to describe these sufferings; you are con-
cerned only in their cure.
DO YOU EVER WATCH A
CHILD when teething and suffering from
the arrival of these necessary adjuncts to the
human body, and long for a cure ? That cure
is to be found in Scott’s Emulsion, which
removes the sufferings and troubles of teeth-
ing by direct action as a medicine, and by
indirect action as a tonic food which
strengthens and helps the child’s vital organ-
ism to throw off and eliminate the conditions
that cause teething troubles. Yet while
Scott’s Emulsion will cause the troubles of
teething to disappear, there is something better
to be done. When the child is three months
old, begin with Scott’s Emulsion, which sup-
plies earthy matter, lime, etc., needed to
make teeth, and you find that the baby’s teeth
will arrive on time and without pain to the
child.
SCOTT'S EMULSION. The^ot
Scott’s Emulsion is likely also to make the
teeth more perfect. You have one precaution
only to take, and that is to see that on the
wrapper of the bottle there is a picture of a
man carrying a big cod-fish ; if that cod-fish is
not there, you are not getting what we promise
you--a cure ! You can obtain a sample of
Scott’s Emulsion and the choicest children’s
booklet of the year, “A Bunch of Roses,”
beautifully printed in colors, by sending od.
to Scott & Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, and mentioning this paper. All
chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
Political Points for the People.
Tub George Reid tariff policy is revenue with destruction
of native industries--as much destruction as he has
courage to effect. He will smash the small, struggling
industries—which, if helped now, will one day be great
means of employment—but he will leave untouched the
big protected ones, which can “lobby" successfully—as
he left untouched the sugar industry and the daily-paper
industry in N.S.W. The Reid policy combines Gruelty
and destruction with falsehood and hypocrisy. Vote it
down.
The one foe of the White Australia ideal before the
people is George Reid. He would relax the immigration
restriction laws and spend Australian money in increasing
the dividends of shipping cos. who boycott white labor
and employ lascars. Vote him down.
The best candidate to vote for is a Labor-Protectionist;
the next best, a Protectionist who will follow Deakin.
The Deakin programme is not progressive enough, but it
is at least not reactionary. The ideal for Radicals to
aim at is a Kingston administration, with Turner as
Treasurer. Failing that, a Deakin administration with
such a strong Radical element in its following that it
will be forced to progress, and with Turner as Treasurer.
A typical lie from a Freetrade daily :
“ The Prime Minister, who assisted to fix on the people
the present iniquitous tariff just to serve the interests of
Victorian manufacturers.”
The present tariff, as a matter of fact, is a compromise
between the slightly Protectionist one of N.S.W. and the
more decidedly Protectionist one of Victoria before
Federation ; ar.d the compromise leans always to the side
of the N.S.W. ideas. It is now, in spite of its defective
character, doing far more to stimulate industries in
N.S.W. than in any of the other States. Sydney Free-
trade politician M‘Millan’s firm has established “white-
goods ” factories and is advertising cheaper goods as the
result of the tariff. Sydney Freetrade politician Storey is
also building a hat factory in Sydney. Those are typical
results of the “ iniquitous Melbourne tariff.”
The Labor party platform for the coming Australian
Parliament: Maintenance of a White Australia; restriction
of borrowing; a Federal absentee-tax ; fiscal peace ; an
adequate area for the Federal capital site ; industrial
arbitration; Federal old-age pensions; defence on effective
citizen lines, instead of Imperialistic millinery lines;
protection to Australian shipping by navigation laws ;
nationalisation of monopolies. It’s a good programme,
and only lacks “ fiscal progress,” a Federal land tax, and
a sinking fund for the repayment of the public debt to
make it completely satisfactory. The electors cannot go
wrong in voting for J. O. Watson and his followers.
. H J’ou have got Freetrade so badly that you can’t get
rid of it, vote for a Freetrader who promises to go solid
for Freetrade ; not Reid, or Braddon, or Smith (either
Bruce or Pumpkin), or Wilks, who wants to get in on the
Freetrade ticket, and promises to practise a certain
amount of Protection when he is in. Surely there must
be a Freetrade candidate somewhere who believes in his
own belief !
Vote down any candidate who comes with the endorse-
ment of a “ religious ” body—Roman Catholic or Protes-
tant. The man elected with the help of priest influence
or parson influence will be the puppet of a church.
Wherever a church has got control of politics—whether
in Anglican England, Roman Catholic Ireland, or Presby-
terian Scotland, it has piled up a record of black infamy
—of brutal cruelty, gross hypocrisy, and disgusting
tyranny. Vote down the “sectarian" candidate, what-
ever his brand.
Mr. Reid, at Singleton, committed himself with
unuiiual definiteness fco Antagonism to a White Australia.
He said (D.T. report)
not believe that colored residents of the Empire
8 t? u !r no " 5 e a " the Empire. The proposed law,
which would prevent British ships carrying the old Eng-
iiBh Jack trading' in our waters, is such as to revolt the
conscience of Australia."
The statement shows the mental confusion usual to Mr.
Reid., There is no “ proposed law ” to “prevent British
ships, etc. There is an actual law to prevent Australian
subsidies going to nigger-employing, English-seaman-
boycotting ship-owners. But it seems to be clear now
that Mr. Reid is in favor of admitting the British nigger
and the British Ohow to this continent ; and there is so
much British nigger and British Chow that unless they
are barred there is no use in worrying about excluding
other colored persons.
G. H. Reid at Singleton :
“ Xt prosperity of other nations that made
them able to buy Australian wool, and when they left off
buying our produce Australians would have to live on
themselves like the cannibals of old did."
The old hopeless, helpless wail of the foreign-trade,
foreign borrowing, foreign religious - row - promoting
party 1 Australia can only live on the sufferance of
foreigners. No more foolish or fatuous falsehood could
be uttered. Australia can produce within its own
borders and from its own seas everything necessary for
civilised life, from wheat to whalebone. It doesn’t want
to lean on any foreigner for support.
G. H. Reid at Singleton :
• u li 1 ‘ ee^ rade is a good principle for all Australia,
right up to its boundary line everywhere, why is it not a
good principle a mile outside the line ” ?
If Freetrade is a good thing, why doesn’t G. H. Reid
now advocate it? \Vhy didn’t he practise it when he
had a show ? Mr. Reid either lies when he says Freetrude
is a good thing for Australia, or be betrays Australia in
not proposing now to give it the advantages of Freetrade.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 312
Bourke-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
MORRIS’S^
Umpeiial
IMPERIAL."
m
chemists* stores. 1
i|s
©intment
* Add* lustre, strengthen* vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 21-
Post 2/2 from Proprietary, Melb.'
Indigestion: Dyspepsia.
The torments endured by a person who suffers from Indigestion are, unfortunately, so well known to
WKaf ~,4 that lt '?? necessary that the symptoms of that modern scourge should be described here.
S reading th7sarScle° ° W “ 6 Permanentl y cured, and they can be enlightened
.., There are several kinds of indigestion : Gastric Catarrh, in which the food becomes covered
with mucous, and consequently withstands the action of the digestive juices ; Gastric Flatulency
Sli e ? lOPment r° f ° r Ga ?* ric Diarrhoea, caused by the food being hurried through the
V.I gan8 j to ° f j Bt ’ and Const^ patlon ’ which is a very prevalent and obstinate cause, which
must be removed, or digestion cannot be expected to proceed.
. /?°A MtIS £ be . digested and converted into blood. Nature makes this one of her most imperative
laws of life. During the process of digestion food is entirely changed in composition by the action of
the juices of the internal organs through which it passes. In the mouth it is thoroughly mixed with
saliva. Then it is swallowed, and enters the stomach, where it is acted upon by the gastric juices and
becomes partly liquefied. From the stomach it passes to the smaller intestine—which is about 18 feet
in length—and there certain portions of the food are liquefied by the bile and other juices. The food
dcid is in a condition to be absorbed into and become a constituent part of the blood.
jj^ 1 'f eBtlb i? P u rt i° n * of *, he fo ?u 18 discharged into the larger intestine, whence it is in turn
expelled from the body together with other refuse matter.
Just as certainly as that it is necessary to life that food must be absorbed, so likewise it is
essential that the blood must be in a condition to absorb the food. Torpidity of the liver is the chief
thntf ueariy evtiry case of indigestion, and when the liver is torpid, the kidneys are always sympa-
thy,a. ll y fv C \% d neater or lesser extent. The blood, which should be transformed cleansed
and filtered by the kidneys and liver, then contains urinary and biliary poisons, and is there-
rA fe6 i le abBorbent ° f nutriment. This condition of the blood reacts u?on the nervous system of
the digestive organs, and prevents the flow, and alters the quality of the digestive juices.
forni^ h f entire nerve energy of a person suffering from indigestion is weakened, owing to this con-
“ n f ed condition of the blood and the general feeling of mental and physical depression, which is
experienced during an attack of dyspepsia, is due to this cause. opiwwiun, wnicn is
c. m oK«ts“d toV^uS n “ o " sl, ' puri<ied br the * ciion ° f th » kt “ “ d tid “w » *°° d
Warner’s Safe Cure
nnrfV a n ?l g<JStion and simply because it restores the liver and kidneys to health and activity
and, as a consequence, the blood becomes pure; it absorbs nutriment freely, and conveys this nutri-
ment to the nerves throughout the body. Nature is merely aided in her efforts to preserve a balance
in the manifold and complex processes of Waste and renewal by which life is maintained.
l^, e ™f mb ® r ’ constipation or irregularity of the bowels must be overcome. Warner’s Safe Pills
should, therefore, also be taken in sufficient quantity to ensure one free movement daily.
not eat gete^uslToUnySrfood.'^'' ** alc ° h ° lic stimulants and rich or fat *>°ds. Do
From Mr. John Gair, Tentmaker, 486 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, 13th February, 1903.
, “ For many years I \vas a martyr to Dyspepsia and great debility. I was aware of a exeat
falling off m mental activity and vigor, but, like thousands of others, I neglected to pay attention to
my health. Attributing my condition to overwork, I resorted to stimulants, but after a time these
commenced to disagree with my stomach, and I was compelled to seek other means of relief ItS
various remedies, but obtained no real relief, the distress of my stomach was as bad as ever I suffered
fipm constipation, I could not sleep, and felt quite feverish. Upon the earnest recommendation of a
filend I decided to see what Warner s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills would do for me At first I
noticed no perceptible improvement, but, as the medicine did not distress the stomach I persevered
enrprl^° U V ccf weeks d could feel a marked change for the better, and in two months I was quite
and pain ail S ml” 6 ! am Lw ’ ‘ C ° U ' d S '“ P »» d ‘l>e Ming ot we.rLes s
[2l
The Monkey Council.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The monkeys sat in council,
They were mostly strong and hale,
And there wasn’t one among them
Who was puny-built or pale.
There wasn’t one among them
But with life was overjoyed,
Not a single laughing simian
Who was ever unemployed.
And the President cried “ Order ! ’*
He’d a curious tale to tell
Of the men who grubbed and grafted
Till they made their land a hell ;
How they said they came of monkeys;
But they’d left the ape behind,
And forsaken trick and gambol
To develop soul and mind;
How they proved it by erecting
Dreary house and dreary gaol,
How they bragged they’d clean abolished
Every remnant of a tail ;
How a few of them were wealthy,
And the others short of bread ;
How they lived a life unhealthy
In a land where Hope was dead ;
How they used the steam and lightning
To propel a funny car;
How they boasted they would travel
Till they ran against a star.
And the monkeys heard in silence
All the tale of pride and sin ;
But the story of man’s rising
From the monkey raised a grin—
Raised a grin that rose to laughter,
Till the trees began to sway,
Till the echoes waked the sleepers
In the forest far away.
And they passed a little motion :
“If the men who chatter thus,
While they live a life of madness,
Think they’ve risen far from us—
“ Let us tell them we are happy,
And our only gaol’s a tree,
Where the fruit is full and sappy,
Where the monkey tribe is free.
“ And if Happiness and Freedom
Are the earthly creature’s goal,
Man is wondrous far beneath us—
Though he brags about a soul 1 ”
Q.
L.
A Lesion in Imperial Federation.
Canada’s present attitude towards Britain gives
an eloquent warning as to the danger of a “push-
ing policy ’’ in regard to Imperialism. Just at
the time when various British politicians and
Australian K.C.M.G.’s are prating of the crimson
thread and of the propriety of pulling it tighter,
Canada’s views on the Alaskan question are
crossed by those of Britain, and Canada at once
begins to talk of further separation instead of
closer union. The Alaskan boundary has long
been a subject of controversy between Canada and
the United States. At one time Russia owned
Alaska, but sold it to the United States—
probably with the same object in view that
Napoleon had when he sold Louisiana—that of
embarrassing Britain. The object was achieved.
The Behring Sea seal fisheries have been long
matter for contention between the United States
and Britain.; and later the discovery of great gold
fields at Klondike gave a new value to the
Alaskan littoral and a new cause for disagree-
ment. In 1898, the United States, feeling some-
what friendly to Britain because of the indirect
help given against Spain, an Anglo-American
Commission was appointed to settle amicably all
differences. That Commission, after many delays,
has finally come to a decision on the Alaskan
question, which decision is all in favor of the
United States. Three U.S.A. delegates and a
British delegate voted for the award against two
Canadian delegates. The U.S.A. delegates, it is
said, made little effort from the first to conceal
the fact that they had already decided in their
own favor; either they would win or there would
be a deadlock. And they won, because, the
Canadians maintain, Britain cares more for keep-
ing the uncertain friendship of its greatest
commercial enemy than for securing justice for
Canada, and Britain’s Commissioner accordingly
voted against Canada. As to the merits of the
dispute—which is as to the interpretation of the
words, “a strip of territory 30 miles from the
ocean,” whether they mean 30 miles back from
the main sea line, as the Canadians say, or 30
miles back following the indentations of the
coast to the head of the furthest inlet, as the
Americans say—an honest difference of opinion is
possible ; but there is no doubt that the United
States Government is determined that no differ-
ence of opinion, honest or otherwise, will deprive
it of the claimed territory. Britain, helpless in
the vortex of foreign hostilities, in which Im-
perialism and expansion have involved it, can do
nothing by way of protest. So Canada threatens
to claim the right to settle such matters in future
by itself. According to a speech by the Premier :
So long as Canada remained a dependency of the
Crown, her present powers would not be sufficient, and
she must now ask the Motherland for an extension, in
order to enable her to deal with similar questions in the
future “in our own fashion, and according to the best
light we have.”
That, as the London Times points out, is a plea
for practical separation. W hen Canada has power
to manage its foreign affairs—as it already does its
domestic affairs—its independence will be practi-
cally complete. And, without a doubt, that is the
natural trend of development, and all the mistaken
efforts of Imperial Federationists can but assist,
not retard, it. The Anglo-Saxon in Canada and
Australia will naturally, in time, feel that he is
entitled to as great powers of self-government as
the man of the same breed in Manchester or
Glasgow. Ultimately, they will be conceded in a
friendly way, or taken in an unfriendly way.
Even Sydney Telegraph hints at a coming
change:
It is imaginable that, in the reform of the future, the
Council may vani-sh. Now that we have a national Par-
liament, it is possible that an irresistible demand fora
one-House State Parliament may be formulated.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. ■ Made in London.*
“ Copra-Beetle ” writes re the loss of the
Ovalau :
About 70 per cent, of copra it pure oil, the balance
highly combustible fibre, &c., and about 5 per cent,
water. When the moisture runs higher than 5 per cent.,
as it often does, a great heat is the result. Speaking
from memory I can recall the following disasters to copra-
carrying vessels and stores (and the trade is quite young):
Ovalau ; Manapouri; East Lothian, put intoS. A.port with
copra on fire ; vessel from Sydney to Valparaiso with
some copra on board, never heard of again ; vessel, name
forgotten, put into Lyttelton (>I.L.) with copra heated;
copra vessel on fire in Liverpool docks some years ago ;
copra stores in Fiji and Tonga destroyed by fire with
contents; hulk burned to the water’s edge at Levukn
with copra cargo, &c., &c.
Captain Todd is reported to have said that the cause of
the fire was probably spontaneous combustion. He, no
doubt, made a shrewd guess. I have travelled much in
copra ships, but always because I had to, and X never hid
from myself the fact that such a vessel has all the mak-
ings of a first-class crematorium. Further, it is quite a
common thing in the islands for a nigger who is stowing
cargo to wear a box of wax vestas stuck through the lobe
of one ear ; sometimes his pipe is in the other ear, or his
'bacca-box, or any little thing like that. Now and then
the matchbox will drop out, and the matches be scat-
tered. Tommy Tanna just picks up all the matches he
can find easily. The rest get mixed up with the copra.
A correspondent from Bloemfontein
(S’Africa): —
This town, like all the rest of S’Africa (Jewberg
included), is in a bad state, living very dear and very
nasty—nearly all cold storage meat and next to no vege-
tables. The place is full of men out of work, a lot of
them Australians. It is no advertisement for a man to
proclaim himself Australian, as they are shunned like the
plague.
The combined wisdom of some dozens of
Victorian municipal delegates convened in Mel-
bourne, during Cup week, to discuss the “ good
roads ” question evolved two momentous deci-
sions : that (1) the Government be asked to
restore the municipal subsidy to its original
dimensions (largely at the cost of the heavily-
rated city worker), and (2) that the Railway
Commissioners be asked to carry road metal at
cut rates (largely at the expense of the heavily-
rated city worker). Nothing about taxing lands
that would be improved by the said good roads,
or making the cheeky landholders pay rent for
closed roads, or putting up country rates and
valuations to the city standard. Yet every one
of these farmer delegates calls himself a Reformer,
and babbles about the cost of Government and the
loss of revenue on the railways.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
TARPAULINS,
CART, WAGGON and
MACHINERY
Canvas
Cotton Duck
Patent
Waterproof
Cloth.
ALL HAND-SEWN.
%
COVERS
AT SPOT CASH
PRICES.
Estimates Sent by
Return Post.
SEND FOB LIST.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd.,
7 & 9 MARKET STREET,
SVDME-y.
KELLY
The flost Successful American
Traction Engine made.
Traction engines.
Fitted with Two (2) Speeds and
Steel Gearing: throughout.
Lists and Particulars FREE on application to the SOLE AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND:
CLARK & FAUSET, Eagle St., Brisbane.
m
The Unirersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’*
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
m
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
m
m
™ e CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
is equal t* A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME.
THOUSANDS GLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FAOTI
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
being used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30/- to 84 1-e
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
i Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd. ( D » M - 8 )
!(Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident
For Life Assurance on the Mutua
Society
Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural or on the awurity of CowrarMrt
Debentures, Insoribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any rne. ~ Quart
Directors —Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman ; The Hon AW. M.L.a,Deputy-Chairaan BKNJAKra s no; t,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; James Borns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black. M.D.C. , F. E. Winchcombb, Esq., M.r.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Flavelle, Roberts * Sankey,ui.
Lapidaries . . ♦ .
Gem Merchants and. .
Manufacturing Jewellers
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
3
No. L—B Fine Brilliant Diamond* £4O, smaller to £lO ; with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamonds, £25.
No. 2.—6 Fine Brilliant Diamonds from £l2 to £5O ; 2 Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires, £lO to £25.
No. 8.-8 Fine Opals and 2 Brilliant Diamonds, £9 ; 3 Fin# Pearls
. and 2 Diamonds, £l2.
No. 4. —1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
No. 6. —3 Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting, £lO to £l6.
No. 6.—3 Queensland White Topazes and 2 Queensland Rubies £6.
No. 7.—1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £5; 1
Queensland Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s.
No. B.— l Fin# Pearl and Diamond Cluster, £2B; 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
No. 9.—1 Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubles, £4 10s.
No. 10.—1 Opal and Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
No. 11.—2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
No. 12.—1 Queensland White Topaz (as brilliant as the
Diamond), £4.
No. 18.—Marquis# of Brilliant Diamonds, £lB to £3O.
4
5
ISA
12
Send for Booklet on “The Gem
Products of Queensland.”
WE HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OF UNSET OEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 100,000 OEMS ON HAND .
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Lunoheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors oijly pay for wbat tb€V actually batf€.
TERMB.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying; for
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNCy.
NOTE Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
mv hoj mvH gooo
32
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., 5s Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICA!,
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
fr For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co..
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Bold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACK AY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 Georg*
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
The VOLCANIC
AERATING
HACHINE
(inAutiUU<iami!iiiiui!iti*a»niM«mitnirtn
THE GENUINE
Automatic Valve Aerator
Used by all leading Melbourne and
country Hotelkeepers.
Money Saving! Time Saving:!
No Skilled Labor required.
Produces sparkling Aerated Waters of the
Highest Quality.
Absolutely Best and Simplest Machine
known.
The Volcanic Aerated Water Machine is being used by Messrs. Spiers & Pond
on the Railway Refreshment Bars, London and Scotland.
A few reasons why the “Volcanic ” Machine is superior to all others.
1. The Valve works automatically ; no other aerating machine of this class has an Automatic Valve.
2. The Water Cylinder holds 10 gals., and has two perforated partitions inside, causing the sparkle so mucn
appreciated. Weight, 801bs. Copper, thoroughly tinned inside and outside.
3. The gas tube holds 571bs. pure gas, being much larger than the tubes supplied with other plants.
4. The Turn-over Bottling Rack is made of the best metal. Thirty dozen per hour can be bottled with it.
6. The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine is the only one of its kind erected in the leading houses in Melbourne, including
The Grand Hotel, Parer’s Crystal Caf6, Parer’s The Duke Cafe, Young and Jackson’s, J. Richardson s Hotel,
Bourke-street, Evans’Covent Garden Caf6, Lucas Caf6, Town Hall Hotel, Sheehan's New Treasury note,
Rubira’s Caf4, Victoria Coffee Palace, Hotel Metropole, Imperial, Lucas (Confectioner), Bat ll s Mote,
Britannia, Australian, A.N.A., City Arms, etc., etc. Also many others in the suburbs and the leading nouses
in the country.
Price, £3O, with all accessories.
Smaller Machine on
same principle, £2O.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The “VOLCANIC 1 ’ Machine was the first of its kind introduced into Australasia,
received the Gold Medal against all competitors at the Ballarat Exhibition.
Write for PamphletSj containing Testimonials from people who have used the machines for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor. Office: 101 Queen-st., Melbourne* Depot: 130 Cecil-st., South Melbourne
r*
i
§
BENGER’S FOOD Is
.lot only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
The London Medical Record
says“ It is retained when all
Other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own."
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


Exquisite New Goods^
XTOT one of these things we illustrate to-day has been shown before. They are all new—some of
IN them have hardly got the wrappers off as we write. They are pretty and serviceable-suited both
for personal wear and gift giving. There is not a common style in the lot and the make and finish are
cuite equal to our usual high-grade goods. If you are particular as to what you buy in cur line then
nowhere else can you go if you would select from a stock so large-so varied that it is an uncommon
thing for us to have to say, “ Sorry, but we have not got it.” Remember that, although we illustrate but
21 articles we have hundreds of equally dainty, equally good, and equally low-priced new lines to show
you if you call. Our
9
m
catalogues, “Attractive
Things at Attractive
Prices ” and “ Honest
Watches,” will be sent
free on request. We
deliver all Goods free
and safe by post orrail.
No. F 8935. —Exquisite Gold Pearl
and Turquoise Necklet and Pendant,
£3 ss.
brawn y* sise
No. F2376.— Lovely Saw-pierced Belt Clasp,
Heavy and, Handsome, 21s.
No. F 1760. —This size Gold Mounted Pen Knife
—Fluted Pattern only, 10s 6d.
No. Cl32o.—Solid Gold Fashion*
able Photo Pendant, 8s 6d.
Exact size.
Catalogues free.
No. F8936.—G01d and Fine Pearl
Necklet, with Pendant, £2 12» od.
No. Gl97o.—Solid Silver
Mounted Toilet Bottle,
patent pull off top, 4Jin.
high, 15b 6d.
No. F 8731. —Isct. Gold
Engraved Cross, exactly
as shown, 18s Gd.
No. F9297.—Dainty
Gold Pearl and Tur-
quoise Pendant, 255.
No. F7539.—2£ x 3 in.
Solid Silver Bag Purse,
32s 6d.
Ho. F7o9B.—Fish Pendant, Gold, and Greenutono
from Maoriland, 228 6d.
.No. F9OO2 —Rustic Inkstand, Silver-plated,
CJin. high, 9s 6d.
m
IWI
m
m
ee
No. F 2966.— A Magnificent Cruet, the highest
quality of Plate and Cut Glass, £-4 15s.
No. F337.—Baby’s Can.
Engraved and Hall-marked Solid
Sterling Silver, 3in., £2 sb.
No. F66s.—Solid Silver
Glass Lined Powder Jar,
high, 22s 6d.
No. G1414.— A1 Quality Exquisitely Engraved
Hot Water Kettle, £2 15s.
No. FB96G. Handsomely Chased Hair Brush,
man's size, 22s Gd.
No. F729B.—Choice Pearl and Gold Brooch, 21s
No. F3B49.—Solid
Silver Milk Jug, 3iin.
high, £2.
No. Cool.—lsc. Gold;
Brooch, set with Pearls'
and Turquoise, £1 158.
No. GBlB. —Heavy Gold
Mounted Solid Silver
Match Box, lfin. high,
22s 6d.
No. FB439.—Cluster
Ring, 18c. Gold, 3
Rubies, 6 Diamonds,
£3 ss.
Gramophone
.i—Records
by this • • •
Celebrated Artist.
WE have great pleasure in an-
nouncing that we have a selec-
tion of Records which are
marvellous examples of the wonderful
technique and splendid execution of Mr.
Jacobs.
lOin. RECORDS.
7946 Polonaise Wieniawski
AS PLAYED IN AUSTRALIA.
7945 Serenata... ... Moskowski
7 in. RECORDS.
7905 Waltz Caprice
7906 Zigeunerweisen
7903 Overtas Mazurka
7909 Dudziarz Mazurka
7912 Legende Wieniawski
7913 Polonaise Wieniawski
We have also a grand selection of
Records as sung at the Ada Crossley Con-
certs, of which we may mention “The
Four-Leaved Shamrock/* 44 The Little
Silver Ring/* and 44 Home, Sweet Home/*
Photo, by 2'aim*.
Mr. JACOBS,
The Violinist of the Ada Crossley Concert Company.
Agents all over the World.
4
RECORDS
IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Send for Catalogues and
Price Lists.
Australasian Agents
VICTORIA—
A. P. Sykes, 272 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne. ,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
Messrs. F. Marshall Sons,
Rundle Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND—
Messrs. Heindorff Bros.,
210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA—
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.,
Barrack Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND—
Messrs. H. Gentle/ & Co.,
9 Strana krcade, Auckland.
TASMANIA—
Messrs. Wertheimer & Benjamin,
71 Collins Street, Hobart.
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TATTERS ALUS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having 1 imposed a (ax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January. 1903, clients trill please forward Id. extra for eaoh ss.
ticket applied fox, or 4d. for every 41, and so on.
NOW OPEN
NEWCASTLE COT, Newcastle, N.S.W., DECEMBER 12, 50,000 at 5/L
SUMMER COT, Randwick, N.S.W., DECEMBER 26, 50,000 at 5/L
PERTH COT, Perth. W.A, DECEMBER 28, 50,000 at 6/L
Subscriber* will please note that GEORGE ADAMS ("TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients c*n send their subscriptions bj letter to any friend ot
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no diffioulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatoh of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
tece famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most °oin-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
ne\ er been known to exist where “ Coughs' have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. 6 & J
BEWARE OF COUGHS 2
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“ Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne. —
** Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for .yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing’ that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off ths empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will bo
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNETS
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
*' Dear Sir,—i wish to add m,v testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly And rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS.
“I u«ed your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W."
•
" Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Kenny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that vour Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great beneflt to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
' I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
*' 1 have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers.
Queen-street, Melbourne."
“ 1 lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid e£feot. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria."
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
O. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody —a.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” • J
“I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your mpdicine
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial. —JOHN o’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well —H HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.” ’
“Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
e
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from von have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDRED 3 CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
" The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 30
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemist*.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Gkelong Advbrtissr."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot- Qffi ce . jf 0 First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
SMELTING « REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works : DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (.w mhos from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold. Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
For aU Information regarding Rates, apply to tUo Manager, Head Ofeice, I)apto ;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.


THE PIANOLA
&
LS
WHAT
IT
MEANS
TO
YOU.
The Pianola enables you to play yoar piano at once though you may
never have played a note in your life.
Would you not gladly pay £6O to be suddenly provided with the ability
to play the piano perfectly* and to retain the ability without constant and
arduous practice ?
If you will write us, we will mail you free our Catalog “B»” explaining
how this is done.
The price of the Pianola is £6O for prompt cash* or £65 on moderate
monthly payments.
You do not have to buy the music. It is supplied for a small annual
charge' from our Circulating Libraries.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
323 George-st., Sydney. 185 & 187 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Pears
Ready
November 23rd.
Christmas,
1903.
Annual
. . Will contain the amazing adventures of . .
Monsieur Jumollet 2 Matrimonial Tour
With 23 Illustrations in Color and 94 in Black and White.
3
WITH THE ABOVE ARE
PRESENTATION
PLATES
■CMgB3aPaBhgtn.BMJ>TiMUI.i.yJEHMgaBg3MHBPBgHMEgMM
Printed in Colors in the Best and Most Artistic
Style of the Chromo-Lithographic Art, viz.:
1. A Hearty Welcome.
From the Original Paintinq by
Edgar Bundy, r.i.
Size 28 by 19J inches.
Printed in 13 Colors.
2. Playmates.
From the Original Painting by E. Munier.
Size 23ij by 18 inches.
Printed in i 3 Colors.
3. A Healthy Appetite.
From the Original Painting by
W. Dendy-Sadler.
Size 16J by Ilf inches.
Printed in 13 Colors.
The Whole Entirely Printed in England.
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.
WHOLESALE AGENTS
FOR AUSTRALASIA . .
GORDON & GOTCH
The Bitting of the Sea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I stand on the shore
With a heart grown sore
For the lovers that never may meet,
And I look to the bay
Where the white colts play
With the blue sea under their feet.
So long unreined
Have her steeds remained
With the sea fire fretting their blood,
That they strangle and drown
When the ships roll down
On the sweep of her tides full-flood.
Long, sunlit and starred,
Have her stallions barred
The road to the South for me,
Till the pride of my race
Groweth hot for the chase
Of. the white Arab steeds of the sea.
With my buckled hate
For a spur to his gait
I would saddle the dark North wind,
And far and near
They should gather in fear
When his shod hoofs clanged behind.
From the fields in-shore
Where the stallions roar
As they ramp in the rock-bound shoals,
And far and away
Where the yearlings play
And the white mares call their foals.
Then, corralled at last,
I would fetter them fast;
I would hold them bitted and bound,
With a double band
For the corpse on the sand
And their debt to the deep-sea drowned !
Over snaffle and chain
They should call to the main
Where their kingdom was free as the air,
When their torn flanks feel
There is more in our steel
1 han the rowels the rough winds wear!
And one of these steeds
To each heart that bleeds
I would give, for a passion to prove
That the bridegroom would ride
Down the world to his bride
And the lover as far to his love.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. O[?]ILVIE.
Whelan Gets Hitched-Up.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Winter was bitter out Bulloo way, the keen
westerlies biting into the very marrow of
humanity. Old Grimes, crouching over the fire
in his slab house, cursed the cold. The canvas
ceiling, stained by the leakage from the perishing
shingled roof, rose and fell to the howling wind
with irritating monotony. The walls of the house
were lined with cheap calico, through which the
wind found easy entrance, and at intervals in his
imprecations, Grimes stood up to toast his back,
by that means obtaining some sort of equal distri-
bution of heat over his whole body from the huge
log fire. Opposite sat his elder daughter, Susy,
gazing vacantly into the flames. Mrs. Grimes
was at the table, engaged in her nightly task of
mending.
-The dogs barked and the door opened,
admitting Whelan and a wild- gust of winter
“’Elio!” said Whelan.
‘Dang it, man !” snapped Grimes, “ain’t yer
got sense ’nough t’ shut the door, lettin’ in the
dashed cold? Come in if y’r comin,’ and’ don’
stan’ there grinnin’ like a hyener.”
The “hyener” shut the door leisurely, and
took a seat by the fire without removing his hat.
‘Well, Susy, how goes it?” greeted Whelan.
“Min’ y’r bizness ! ” she flung at him without
raising her eyes.
Whelan grinned, scraped out his pipe, and
began cutting a fill of rank tobacco, local growth.
Dashed cold,” he observed generally.
There was no immediate response for quite two
minutes. Then Grimes complained.
“ The big leggoon wus fruz hard this mornin’.
Never seen the likes afore.”
Whelan crammed his pipe and said, “Me
mistache wus full o’ hicicles runnin’ after the
cows this mornin’ down the paddick.”
“Snakes !” dubiously, from Susy.
Whelan took a firestick and lighted up, jabbing
the hot end on Susy’s hand before flinging it back
on the fire.
Stop it, yo’ pig ! ” shouted the girl, giving him
a smack in the face. The parents chuckled. Susy
went to bed. J
After half-an-hour of much smoke and silence
went to his bed without ceremony.
Whelan sat nursing his leg awhile and then walked
out, throwing back over his shoulder “S’ long !”
» * « *
This was a sample of Whelan’s courtship. It
was not in Mrs. Grimes’s nature to let things
shape their own course. She told Susy one
ev ® nir |£> it was time she got “ hitched-up.”
. Y !< no w y’ aint much t’ look at, me gel, an’
taint likely, by no means, as chaps is cornin’
tumbhn over one ’nother t’ marry yo’. Whelan’d
have yo’ t’ morro’if vo’ give him ’alf a chanst,
on’y y’r that dash pertickler.”
“That cove!” exclaimed Susy, with infinite
scorn.
Grimes set her iron down with a bang
on the empty jam-tin which served as a stand,
ana, putting her arms akimbo, asked angrily,
“What’s wrong with the man, I’d like to
know?”
He’s ugly ’s a jew lizard,” answered Susy
with vigor.
Sakes alive! Ugly, is it? Well, me gel, y’r
no Vanus y’rself, an’ nayther’s Whelan, so y’r
well sootid. Like ’nough, it’s the Prince o’
W hales yr waitin’for, or a dook. Let me tell
yo , then, me fine lady, it’s Whelan y’ll marry, an’
the sooner the better. ’
Q Susy, like many a better girl, gave-in.
ohe didn t care much. Her mother’s philosophy,
applied frequently, was like hob fomentations to a
congested organ.
“ Some gets the man they wants, and then they
don’t want him when they do, an’ wishes they
hadn’t, an’ some gets them they don’t want, an’
where’s the diff’rence ? It’s all wan which way it
goes.”
The wedding was to take place in December at
the District Registrar’s office in Quart Pot. This,
on economic grounds, was Whelan’s decision.
“ I aint goin’t’ be hitched up be no pars'n—not
me. Y’ see, it’s like this ’ere. Y’ go t’ a rejister
an’ e’ hitches y’ up straight ’n end. If y’ go t’ a
pars’n ’e gives yo’ a sermon long ’s me arm an’
prays over yo’ like a bloomin’ corpse, an’ then ’e
sez ‘Five quid ! ’ The rejister’s on’y ten bob an’
no prayin. ’”
* * * *
The eventful day arrived. It was a ten-mile
drive to Quart Pot, so Grimes and Whelan got
the dray ready before the sun rose. Susy in-
spected Whelan before starting.
“Y’ aint got no collar on, as I told you,” she
said.
“Collar be blowed!” he replied. “In yo’
get ! ”
She went back to the house and returned with a
small parcel.
“I’m fetchin’ wan o’ father’s. Ye’ll put it on
when we get to Quart Pot,” she told the bride-
groom, emphatically.
Whelan and Grimes occupied the front seat of
the dray ; the women sat in the body of the
conveyance on boxes. It was a hot, tedious
drive, and spiritless. It had the melancholy air
of a mouraing party. Susy put the collar on
Whelan, but as it was over an inch too large for
his neck, she took up a pleat in it with a pin.
Whelan swarmed into the Registrar’s office with
his party.
“We want t’ be ’itched up, mister,” he
announced, with the swagger of a bandit, and
sat down.
“Take off your hat, sir,” ordered the official
sternly.
Whelan dropped his hat on the floor promptly ;
Grimes sneaked his off and hung on to it. This
kind of reception was a shock to Whelan, and he
nervously spread his hands over his knees, his
fingers wide apart. After some necessary pre-
liminary explanation on both sides, the Registrar
arranged his papers, and asked the bride if she
objected to an oath.
“Not her, mister,” Whelan chipped in, grin-
ning ; “she kin perform a bit ’erself when ’er
dander’s riz.”
The Registrar frowned Whelan down, and ex-
plained what he meant.
“I presume neither of you is a minor?” he
asked.
“No, mister,” answered Whelan; “I’ve done
a bit o’ prospectin’, but no reg’lar diggin’.”
“ Tut ! tut! —are you both above the age of 21
years ? ”
They were. Mrs. Grimes vouched for Susy.
The oath was taken and the paper signed,
Whelan laboriously painting his name in Roman
characters, Susy splotching a dog-leg as her mark.
Whelan, thinking that finished the business,
plunged his right hand into a pocket of his trou-
sers, his left hand holding up the pocket on the
outside, his right knee drawn upwards in the
operation of extracting coin.
“What’s the damage, mister?” he asked, as he
grabbed for the money.
“Oh ! that comes later,” said the Registrar;
“ we have not finished yet.”
Then he addressed Susy :
“ Your full name, please ? ”
“ Miss Grimes.”
“Ah ! quite so ; but I mean your Christian
name.”
“ Susan she is,” said Grimes.
“Susan she isn’t,” snapped the mother. “Susan
Bridget she is.” And to Grimes she said, “Shut
y’r jaw, yo’ fool.”
“ Dear me! ” pleaded the Registrar; “ which
am I to put down ?”
“Chuck in the bloomin’ lot, mister,” advised
the bridegroom.
The Registrar told Whelan, in great swelling
words, that he objected to any chuckings or
bloomings in his presence.
Miss Grimes corroborated her mother.
“Full name, Mr. Whelan?”
“ James Sydney. ”
“What is your condition ?”
“ Hard’s nails,” said Whelan.
“I’m nicely, thank you,” answered Susy, much
gratified by this kindly interest in her health.
“We’re all a ’elthy family, thanks be !” sup-
plemented Mrs. Grimes.
The Great Presence smiled, and explained what
the official mind meant by “ condition.” Whelan
owned up to “ bachelor,” but Susy was not con-
fessing to anything vague. She was asked was
she a spinster.
“A what?” she asked, suspiciously. Bush
girls are very touchy about their good names.
“ Are you a single woman ? ”
“Nobody never dar’ say no diff’rent. They
jus’ couldn’t! ” emphatically.
“Nayther they couldn’t, me gel. She’s never
done no wrong, mister, ” enlarged the mother.
The Registrar made a mollifying explanation.
“ Birthplace ? ” to Whelan.
“ Onder a dray.”
“ Where ?”
“ Can’t say. That’s all I’ve heard.”
“ Occupation?”
“ Cocky.”
“What on earth do yon mean, sir? That’s no
occupation. Answer my question ! ”
The Great Presence was red in the face, and
Whelan was none too amiable by this.
“Why, any goat knows what a cocky is.
Selector,” he said, sulkily.
‘ Father’s name?”
“ Ain’t got none. Never knowed none.”
“Mother”
“ Never ’ad wan as I knows on.”
“Dear me! What a freak of nature ! Most
unusual.”
Whelan broke loose.
“ Blowed ’f I ever ’eard sich a lot o’ tommyrot.”
The Registrar thundered : “ I beg your pardon.”
“Granted, mister,” said Whelan, extending his
hand generously. The Registrar ignored the paw.
All things come to him who waits, and finally
Susan Bridget became Whelan’s yoke-mate. The
Registrar handed Mrs. Whelan her certificate,
with a liitle advice.
“This is your Warrant of Possession. If he
runs away from his Paradise, his good angel can
bring him back on this legal authority.”
“My troubles ! ” said Susy coldly. “He kin go
soon’s ’e likes. ”
But Mrs. Grimes had no such loose views.
“Kin ’e, jest? Not while I’m alive. Jest leave
’im try them games on wan o’ mine.”
The party left in rather an electric atmosphere.
A month later an unexpected Susy darkened
her mother’s door.
“ Y’ see I’ve kim back,” she announced.
Sakes alive, gal ! yo’ don’t tell me as ’ow ’e’s
been an’ gone an’ left yo’?” questioned the
mother.
Susy nodded pleasantly.
“ ’E’s gone f’r a week fencin’.”
“Yo’ quite skeered me. Well, an’ ’ow d’yo*
like it, Susy ? ”
“’Taint too bad, on’y Jim’s got’nawful lob o’
jaw, more’n I kin stan’, times.”
* * * *
Up on Rocky Creek Jim and a mate were
fencing. Jim adzed the end of a rail and stopped
to spit on his hands. His mate was ramming a
post.
“This’ere marryin’,” said Whelan, “ain’t the
bloomin’ game it’s cracked-up. Them there
weemin’s got too much jaw.”
EXILE.


Natal Witness on the Chinese labor
question in South Africa :
The stars in their courses are fighting for the mine
magnates, and everything is going swimmingly for
Chinese labor. The public, who have been skilfully
educated up to the necessity, are daily becoming more
eager to hurry on the season of prosperity which they
are now convinced Chinese labor alone can bring. The
people of Delagoa are protesting loudly against the
Transvaal mines being supplied with East Coast natives
at the expense of that port. In Johannesburg the mer-
chants have joined hands with the mine magnates, and
sent in deputations to the Acting High Commissioner
asking him to stop all railway construction, so that
natives who want work shall have no choice but to go to
the mines. Recently (he big houses condescended to
give the share market a little fillip, just as a sort of
earnest of whit maybe looked for in ihe sweet bv-and-
bye when the pigtailed hordes shall have been dumped
here. The while, rumors are industriously passed from
moil'll to mouth of some remarkab e development that
will start the boom without delay.
Doan’s Reports Investigated.
No Return of Illness for Three Years.
Patient : “ The pain is in the email of the hack, Doctor,"
Doctor : “Ah! That’s kidney trouble I"
We are answering to-
day a very important
question, viz., Do the
people who 8&y they have
been cured by Doan’s
Backache Kidney Bilk*
Stay cured!
A medicine which
cures merely for a day car
a week is worthless, it is
only a tonic, or a purga-
tive.
But a medicine which
drives the illness away,
so that it stays away,
that medicine does all
medicine O&lt do.
We have been verify-
ing our earlier published
cases, and we are pleased
to say the result of our
investigations has been
most gratifying.
THE CURES BY
DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY BILLS ARE
PERMANENT
CURES.
If there be any among
those cases which we have
before published, whose
illness has returned, and
whose cure is not perma-
nent, we shall be glad if
they will write us about
ifk
Mr. P. Smith, 1 Cheltenham-street, Balmain, this oftyv says : Over twelve
months ago I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for kidney trouble, and
they worked a miracle in my case. I had been under three doctors a*
different times, but their treatment did me no good- I used to be so bad
that I would have to be carried home in a cart if an attack came on when
working in the street. Sometimes when walking, I have had a bad attack,
and would be taken to the hospital./ jMy wife said she never thought I would
live through some of these bad turns. I suffered with a kind of bilious-
ness, vomiting egg-like stuff. My secretions were in a frightful state. I
could never bend iny back or move at all when I had a bad turn. The
people at the hospital gave me medicines, and recommended rubbing in lini-
ments, but it was no use; they did not benefit me. I saw an advertise-
ment for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, stating that these Pills
had cured Mr. Dunn, and knowing him led me to procure this remedy. I only
took one box of DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, and they cured me.
The first dose relieved me. When I had finished them, I started work, and
have worked ever since. It is heavy work lam doing, but it does not affect
me. These Pills cured me after years of suffering, and the relief was almost
instantaneous. I might state that since then I have had a bad attack of lumbago,
which laid me up for one month. I never thought that DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS were good for this complaint. Then I remembered that I had
a few in the box, and not having any other medicine in the house I tried them.
They cured me.”
Mrs. Smith states later on:—"Three years ago my husband gave testimony
regarding DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. He has had wonderful
health since he used that remedy ; in fact, never haying had a sign of the ailment
return. Some time ago he was lifting a heavy weight and wrenched his back.
He obtained a box of DOAN’S PILLS, and they rid him of his agony. I am
firmly convinced he owes his life to DOAN’S PILLS, for he could not have stood
the pain he used to suffer before he used these pills. I never saw anybody in such
agony. He has never missed a day at his work since he used DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS four years or more ago.”
Why Doan’s Cures are Lasting. The cures effected by Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are lasting cures, because this medicine only claims to do one thing, viz., to cure
Kidney and Bladder diseases and attendant ills.
They are not a nerve tonic or purgative, which brace the system for the time only, and
which claim to cure every disease. DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS have no
action on the bowels at) all. And a third reason is they relieve the clogged condition of
the kidneys, helping them to flush from the system the uric acid and other poisons which
the kidneys filter from the blood. These poisons cause most diseases.
We do not ask you merely to believe our claims, but we do ask you to place confi-
dence in the word of fellow-citizens, or at least to verify their statements for yourselves.
j)ian’s gackache Kidney Pills
May be bad of Chemists and Stores at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes,
15s. 3d.), or will be posted, on receipt of price, by Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
Serious Chances
Ake Taken in Neglecting a Simple Case
of Piles.
Any person takes serious chances in ne-
glecting an attack of piles. _ This ailment has a
tendency to become chronic, and there is also
a further tendency to ulceration and forming
of fistula, which we know are most difficult to
cure.
The safest remedy for any form of piles,
whether itching, or protruding, is Doan’s
Ointment. In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the many cures
made by it have made it famous in every
corner of the world. Any chemist will tell
you that it enjoys a greater demand and more
enthusiastic popularity than any other pile
remedy ever placed on the market.
Mr. Joseph Holland, 22 Cleveland-street,
City, states : —“The advertisement that is
published from time to time in Sydney papers,
to the effect that Doan’s Ointment cured me
of itching piles is quite true. Before I used
Doan’s Ointment I thought I would never get
a remedy to do me any good. I had them for
seven years, and they caused me intense pain
and a most teasing irritation. It is two years
ago since I made the statement, and if Doan’s
Ointment wasn’t a real good thing I would
have had some return of the trouble —instead
I am as free of itching piles as when I made
the statement. Doan’s Ointment took all the
venom out of the trouble these couple of years.
It is a marvellous Ointment. Anybody may
rely on it giving absolute ease.”
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching piles. IT WILL
CURE THEM ABSOLUTELY. But do not
take the manufacturer’s word for this, ask
Mr. Holland. He knows, for it cured him,
and he lives here in Sydney. Is not that the
best possible kind of proof ? Could there be
better? .
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists and
storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will be
posted on receipt of price by Foster McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney. ?
Remember the name —DOAN’S.
When Watts Went Out to
Yugilbar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The summer days, through heat and haze,
Had browned the meadow lands,
And in its flow sang soft and low
The river on its sands —
The river wide that once in pride
Poured out its high commands.
Now Watts and I to wet our dry,
Dull clay at “Mother’s” bar,
’Neath mid-day sun betimes had gone,
In tropic noons afar,
And oft we’d met that clay to wet
Beneath the evening star.
Sad exiles both with equal loath
Of rustio “ toff ” and clown,
“ The chaps in banks,” the local cranks,
The milch cows—red and brown —
The same old trees, the same old “ teas,”
Which gossip-fed the town.
And so we went, on peace intent,
That golden Eastertide,
With ample store of providore,
The liquid stock beside;
And, trotting free, ’twas good to see
The pack-horse in his stride.
God gave us hills to cure our ills ;
And where the river rolls
His splendid length of mountain strength
Along the pebbled shoals,
Long leagues from town, we sat us down
To rest our weary souls.
The dweller in the streets, whose thin,
White ghosts of pleasures pall—
He little deems what halcyon dreams,
What visions fair and tall,
From leaf and vine with songs divine,
In Bushland shadows call.
The spoil hard won by rod and gun,
Abroad in Nature’s ways;
The kind surcease from toil, and peace
Beside the camp fire’s blaze ;
The Dawn’s young rose, the Evening’s dose,
Made perfect all our days.
Then in the late, dim dusk my mate
(As Orpheus long ago)
The strings would sweep and clear and deep,
In joy—perchance in woe—
Love, Peace and War—all things that are
Fell out beneath the bow.
I’ve heard the grand massed fun’ral band
Behind a warrior’s pall,
In weird notes roll through heart and soul
The slow “ Dead March in Saul; ”
In youth’s wild days The Marseillaise
To arms all peoples call;
But when I dream by slope and stream,
Where upland glories are ;
Or, if my feet tread alien street
In alien lands afar,
Still will I hold those hours of gold
Way out on Yugilbar.
First night went by ; but, bearded, shy,
Unskilled of tongue or pen;
Next night from camp, a starlit tramp,
They came, rough miner men.
The “fiddler” knew, and slyly drew
The music of their ken.
My Bushland fair, let fools declare
Thee barren of sweet things;
Deep in thy heart there throbs apart
A harp of golden strings;
And to its chords, in wondrous words,
A wooing siren sings.
The dark range o’er, with wondrous store
Of silver from the moon
Was slowly filled, while ached and thrilled
Those lone bush hearts in tune
To Love and War —all things that are
Within the player’s boon.
Of “Home, Sweet Home” ’neath star-spread dome,
The dark hills heard the story;
“St. Patrick’s Day” once more away
The wild Celt called to glory;
Or sweet and sad the raw Scots lad
Dreamed of his “ Annie Laurie.”
Brave, simple souls; when backward rolls
Life’s curtain, from afar
That scene I’ll dream by hill and stream
’Neath cloudless moon and star ;
In fancy hear the echoes clear—
Way out on Yugilbar.
And, Watts, when you are passing through
That Vale the preachers tell.
Just lift your bow and he will know
The song-lord Israfel.
And loud and clear, “ Musicians here,”
He’ll cry—and ’twill be well.
N.S.w.
E. J. BRADY.
Now November’s There.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Oh, to be in England
Now that April’s there,"
sang Browning.
But—
“ Oh, to be in Melbourne
Now November’s there,"
sings my heart.
Melbourne in November ! Melbourne in Cup
week 1 Stand at “Puppy-dog’s” corner and look
down Collins-street—a surging sea of panamas,
a galaxy of beauty and rustling summer girls;
somewhere kiddies, everywhere flowers. Lilies-
of-the-valley, oarnations, Sydney flannel-flowers,
roses. “Roses, roses all the way”: bronze-pink,
gold-yellow, luscious cream, dark red velvet
“ Beaucaire ” rosea ! Hawkers with carts —straw-
berries in open wooden boxes, asparagus on
beds of olive grass, cool cucumbers, flaring per-
fumed oranges, every kind and variety of
hawker; Melbourne sun, Melbourne blue, Mel-
bourne sights, Melbourne sounds, Melbourne
dust, Melbourne smells—oh, I am Melbourne-
sick ! What are England and April to Mel-
bourne and November? Who pines for the
ohaffinch while Sweet Nell sings at the Princess’s
—and the “elm-tree bole ” and “the brushwood
Bheaf ?” Come with me to the Fitzroy Gardens
and —you will see what you shall see. The
lights and shades of those Fitzroy Gardens ! The
sheeny, rippling grass, the elm trees whis-
pering overhead, the willow with its long,
green sweep, the white Greek figures
flashing against the living foliage, the curved
black tree-boles in their emerald setting. And
theminahs, and the sparrows, the speckled golden-
throated thrushes, the wood-pigeon that cooes a
soft love-note for the old and sad, as well as the
young and happy who haunt the Gardens.
Birds in the sky, birds in the nest, birds at the
water’s brink, birds on the grass. Chirrup, and
flutter, and “tweet!” A laugh, a cry, a long
low call —the blackbird whistling to its mate1 —•
chirrup, and flutter, and “tweet ! ” . . .
lam Melbourne-sick ! I long to prowl round
the echoing picture-gallery, and stare at the pic-
tures—a.nd wonder at the Chinamen ! To wander
into Mullen’s and handle the last magazine,
and latest book, to buy frills and chiffons at
Buckley’s, to oat strawberries under the wistaria
in the Winter Garden, to waste someone’s sub-
stance on crystallised fruit at Bates’, to hear the
tram bells clang as the traffic thickens, and the
hansoms dodge the water-carts. / want
I want to walk along Swanston-street side by
side with a sun-tanned jackeroo who has a cheque
for the “blue-ing,” to go to the Cup and see the
horses, and more panamas, and rustling, gaily-
colored summer-girls. To hear the bookmakers
yell, and the great crowd hum like a swarm of
hiving bees. And I want to drift home by moon-
light, to sit with that jackeroo on the river bank,
and watch the stars open shyly, one by one, like
flowers in the deep blue sky. To see those other
stars come out, the twinkling jewelled lights, the
wicked' shifting lights—the lights o’ Melbourne
town.
And I want that jackeroo to murmur softly in
my ear of the loneliness of waiting, of the dreams
of the night shifts, of the Love that passeth under-
standing. And —God pity me !
I sit up in the dark, and rub my eyes, and
stretch wide my empty arms and— listen 1
Nothing—nothing—but darkness—darkness and
silence !
Then the sleet on the window, and the low
breathing of my English husband—and its —
“ Oh, to be in Melbourne
Now Novembers there
THE YOUNG 'UN.
Tales of the Penance Track.
No. 27’s ESCAPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No. 27 was a “ sil vert ail.” He had been, before
his fall, a Clerk of Petty Sessions, magnate of a
country town, supping with the magistrate, bank
manager and parson. His cankering trouble was
the thought of his correspondence. The deficit in
his cash was mainly due to the spending capacities
of another woman, and his wife learned all at the
trial. No. 27 had never been able to explain,
nor to ask forgiveness. She wrote every six weeks,
no reproaches, no grumbling, but a strong, cheer-
ful, loving letter, mapping out a future bright
with happiness for both. And 27 swore long and
silently—at himself.
He had five months still to do, and it dragged;
days seemed years, and long, dreamy nights
seemed ages, with the glimpse of the good future
showing in fitful snatches of slumber.
* * * *
It was four months and seven days from the
date of his discharge, when the Deputy-Governor
called 27 into his office and told him. No. 27
came out stupid. He would never see her, never
ask her forgiveness, never have a chance to tell
her all—how that other had forced herself into his
heart, with her fierce, wild ways and caresses, and
blinded him. And now she would die without
him telling her. He was allowed to write a letter
of farewell. How could he explain that in a letter ?
* * * *
Warder Fallon, on night duty from 11 p.m.,
detected a dark form swinging from a blanket-
rope from cell 39. Warder Fallon crouched under-
neath in the shadow of the wall, and when 27
reached the ground he was promptly secured and
placed in lock-up cells till the visiting Justice
arrived.
No. 27 told him all —how she was dying ; how
he wanted one word of forgiveness from her, and
then gaol if they liked for the rest of his life. But
27 was taken back to do seven days' dark cells.
* * * *
On the fourth day the doctor and deputy-
governor went to the “ dark cell ’ to break the
news of his wife’s death to No. 27, but they found
him swinging lifeless from the window-bars. The
doctor said he had been dead three hours. The
deputy-governor looked at the telegram in his
hand. It read: “Your wife died at nine this
morning.” Then he looked at his watch—it was
just 12 o’clock.
No. 27 had scratched a message on his drinking
tin, bidding them give his watch to his mother.
“ To his mother?” said the doctor, walking out
of the cell; “ I wonder did he know.”
THE WASP.


Purifies the Blood
Bushmen Must Drink Bad Water. This Makes Bad Blood. Sickness
Follows. How to Make the Blood Pure.
m
m
Mr. Alexander Johnson, of Bourke,
New South Wales, sends us his photo-
graph and says:
“ For many years I have been en-
gaged in shepherding, stock-droving,
and other occupationsso well known
to bushmen. Often the drinking-
water was very bad, and I was ex-
posed to other hardships of bush life.
I found all the men around me using
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, so I tried it. For
cleansing and purifying my blood, and
for giving me new life and energy, I
found it the most wonderful medi-
cine I ever used. I do not see how
bushmen get along without it. I
advise all who read this to keep a
bottle of this grand medicine on hand
all the time, for it’s a great health
preserver.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Perhaps you are not exposed to all the hardships of bush life. Yet you
have probably suffered from impure blood, great debility, nervousness, exhaus-
tion, indigestion, and other evidences of a weakened system. No matter what
your occupation, nor where you live, if you are in need of a blood-purifying
medicine and something to build up your nerves, you should certainly take
this grand family medicine. V
You will make a great mistake if you try any other Sarsaparilla than
“Ayer’s.” This is the kind that has been making the cures for sixty years.
m
m
Strengthens the Stomach and Builds up the Nerves
Ayer’s Pills— a gentle laxative for the whole family.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
eases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
Ogilvie’s new book of verses—Hearts of Gold,
price 4s. 6d. Posted to any address in exchange
for postal note or P.O.O. to Bulletin office.
A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE..
“ A lady customer of mine was so pleased with
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,, which she had
used for her children when suffering from colds
and croup, that during a fortnight’s time she
obtained at my shop,” writes F. W. J. Fletcher,
Chemist, Homebush, “nine bottles, which she
•sent to her friends in differeiit parts of the State,
telling them how much good Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy has done, and advised them to
give it a trial” Sold everywhere, Is. 6d.*
m
is the “plank of every politician,” and the desire of
the people. They ask that in all direction of the
public welfare the ablest men shall control the
helm, and the best methods employed in order that
the greatest good may result to the greatest number.
In matters which affect the common weal, efficiency
is essential.
BEECHAM’S PILLS are Efficient
In Promoting: Digestion.
In Improving: the Appetite.
In Cleansing: the Stomach.
In Arousing: a Sluggish Liver.
In Regelating the Flow of Bile.
In Purifying the Blood.
In Assisting the Kidneys.
In Dispelling Disease.
In Inducing Peaceful Slumber.
m
BEECHAM’S PILLS may be termed tbe
friend in need of the human race, and the
vast benefit they have been to many thou-
sands, during the long years, has earned for
ihem the unique reputation of being
Worth a Guinea a
SHOT-GUN CARTRIDGES.
'
•l-"V ivV
Loaded with Black Powder.
Loaded with Smokeless Powder.
Recommended to Shooters particularly for Uniformity*
Penetration, and Cleanliness. Guaranteed the Best.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS.
m
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
m
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E.,
L.F.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc..
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His, Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCER ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
th This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“ Press Extracts ” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily. '
“ ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
“ J.A.C.” : The Faust Family, possibly the cleverest
all-round combination which has visited Australasia, is
earning unlimited kudos, under, the management of Ted
E. Faust, in the Land of 'the Burnt Nigger. Their
“ Risley ” act, so called from its originator—an acrobatic
performance in which the feet are used instead of the
hands—is regarded as ahead of anything in the line
hitherto seen. Miss Daisy Faust has been very successful
with a musical comedy eo. in “ The Show Girl.” Faust,
seftr., retired from the “ profesh,” is residing in Sydney.
I first knew him in Italy, 30 years ago, when he WM
without a rival as an acrobat.
Charles Tait writes from London that when he looked
in at the Pavilion he found Frank Lincoln giving just the
same “ turns ” that he gave in Australia more than a
dozen years ago. The average stage mummer, despite
all that can be said against him, is a hard, intellectual
grafter compared with a successful monologue showman.
An actor has to give his mind to a new character pretty
frequently, and every new character, if it’s a big one,
demands a good deal of work at first, and adds to the-,
store of words he carries in his memory. But the mon
loguer, who gets going with an entertainment when he’s
25, and keeps it going until he’s 60, without alteration—
what does he do with his brains in the meantime ? It is
as though he had painted a popular picture in his ybuth
and lived for ever afterwards on the proceeds of exhibiting
it at a shilling a head.
“ D.” : The Dickens boom will probably strike us again
shortly. In the ’60’s and ’70’s Dickens’ dramas were
popular enough. Since then, the most successful per-
formances have been Fred Marshall’s Quilp (Maggie Moore
doubled Little Nell and the Marchioness, in another ver-
sion of “The Old Curiosity Shop”), Jennie Lee’s Jo,
Toole’s Caleb Plummer and Artful Dodger, and Tyrone
Power’s Sydney Carton. Sass and Emery produced
“ Little Ejh’ly ” during their brief partnership, Sass play-
ing Peggotty, the part which fell to Cartwright in the
recent London production of another variation of “ David
Copperfield.” Dan Barry and Nance O’Neil produced
different versions .of “ Oliver Twist.’’ It is hard to say
which was the more gory.
Coquelin, possibly the finest actor on the stage at the
present day, recently completed his 63rd year. He was
born at Boulogne, France, where his father was a baker.
The paternal Coquelin wished his son to follow the busf*
ness, but the boy preferred another roll —that is r6le.
He entered the Paris Conservatoire, and subsequently
joined the famous company of the Theatre Framjais.
Since then, he has played pretty well all over the world,
and in America, in particular, has “ scooped ” untold
dollars.
“ Haresfoot ”: Thanks for the portrait of Jack Steele.
The last I heard of him he was reciting at the Melbourne
waxworks. Perhaps he was never associated with a more
curious manager than Gilbert Roberts. This extra-
ordinary little fellow was junior reporter on the Age
when he astounded the community by becoming lessee
of Coppin’s Hay market theatre, with Mr, and Mrs. J. B.
Steele leading the company. Roberts had no money,
but the friendship of the all-potent Walter Montgomery
must have found him backers. He re-christened the
theatre the Duke of Edinburgh, after another potentate
then knocking about. Montgomery appeared there.
Mr. and Mrs. Steele acted in “ Black Sheep,” “Henry
Dunbar,” and Robertson’s “Ours.” Roberts was a fore-
runner of Augustus Harris—without the luck.
The Pollards have lost still another of their “lillipu-
tians”in S’Africa; Annie Curtice, one of the original mem-
bers of the co,, was married on the last day of the
Johannesburg season to a son of Edward Richardson,
who \yas Vogel’s Minister for Public Works in M.L.’s bad
old days.
A variety artist appearing at the 'alls in England is
billed as Frank Mummery.
Of Haddon Chambers’s new play a London critic says :
“It seems really incredible that the author of ‘The
Tyranny of Tears’ should have written ‘The Golden
Silence.’” It seems not less incredible that the author
of various other plays by Haddon Chambers should have
written “The Tyranny of Tears,” which is equal to the
brightest of Pinero’s or Wilde’s work.
Of course it was Bland Holt, and not his father, who
is remembered as a first-class pantomime clown. The
evidence of Bland’s former connection with “property"
legs of mutton and strings of sandwiches can be detected
in his habit of blinking his eyes as he stands facing the
audience. This is the time-honored peculiarity of the
clown who is being charged with petty larcenj - by a pan-
tomime policeman or nurse-girl.
“Hamlet": “ It is a pity,” said Fisher to me quite seri-
ously, “ that so many of us provincial actors don’t pay our
way honestly. We go to a country town, fleece almost every-
one in a mild sort of way, and then clear out. Another
struggling crowd of mummers comes along—perhaps
they’re an honest crowd and perhaps they’re not—and
get a terrible reception, and are regarded with suspicion
by everyone from the Mayor to the town’s unregistered
mongrel. We, the Barrington Gobung Cos., struck a town
once that had, a few weeks before, been invaded by a
band of unprincipled barn-stormers, and we were refused
accommodation anywhere until we planked down our
money in advance; and even then the landlords told
Barrington that they relied upon him to see that none
of the mummers sneaked any of their silver spoons. The
local bill-sticker refused to work' until he was paid. The
season was a failure and the crownißg incident happened
as we struggled to the railway station with our props.
At the side of a shanty on the read a woman stood
washing. The clothes were hanging on the fence along-
side the road. Avery small urchin saw us coming, and
he rushed up te the woman and shouted: ‘Muvver,
muvver, take in the clothes. Here comes the actors.’ ”
“ D.”: American dramatists struggle hard to find
extraordinary titles for their plays. Some recent ones
are “A Hoosier Daisy,” “A Devil’s Lane,” “ Fogg’s
Ferry,” “ A Devil in Skirts,” and “An Eye on Hubby.”
Australia, 50 years ago, used to do something in the same
line. Among the comedies running at the old Victoria
(Sydney) during 1853 were—" The Woman I Adore,” “ Go
to Bed, Tom,” “Sink or Swim,” “A Phenomenon in a
Smock Frock,” “ The Married Bake,” and “ To Paris and
Back for Five Pounds." The company included Rogers,
Welch, and Sara Flower.
Planche related that he was behind the scenes, at the
London Lyceum, while Madame Vestris stood on a
pedestal as Apollo, waiting for the raising of the front
cloth. “Heavens!” thought Planche, “ what a piece of
impudence to put up that shivering and cowering old
woman ! ” But the stage is an elixir ! When the curtain
went up she was a radiant image of beauty. Fred Belton
used to tell, in Australia, how he managed an Edinburgh
theatre, when the principal girl for a Christmas panto-
mime was sent from London on the very day of the pro-
duction. “ Macbeth’s Third Witch ! ” was his sorrowful
exclamation as she mumbled through the only rehearsal.
At night she was an image of life, laughter and joy !
Geo. Vandenhoff relates how his heart sank when he
rehearsed the “ Hunchback ” with ugly Charlotte Cush-
man, and could not believe his eyes when she appeared, a
perfect Venus, at night.
A London critic says of veteran actor Willard (the
original “Spider” in “Silver King”) that, during his
sojourn in the States, he has “acquired the habit of
exaggeration in manner and in gesture which is the
stamp of the American actor/’ The American actor, as
Australia sees him of late years, is mostly a person who
stands stock still in the middle of an emotional scene and
aims at impressing the audience with his deadly calmness.
He doesn’t portray the natural effects of mind upon
matter, much less exaggerate them.
The French have discovered that the cake walk is of
French origin. It is.said to be a negro imitation of the
stately minuet introduced into New Orleans by refugees
from the court of Louis XVI. at the time of the first
revolution.
Comedian Joseph Jefferson’s letter of recommendation:
“To whom it may concern.—The bearer, Jared White,
has been employed on dr about my place at Buzzard’s Bay
for several years. He is a good naan for anybody who
wants just that kind of man.”
“ Alta” : Entered the d.c. of Sydney Majesty’s Theatre,
t’other night, and seeing an immense audience, mostly
composed of white satin and bare flesh, I concluded that
“ Sassietv ” was present in overwhelming numbers. But
later on, after the hero and his country girl had decided
to “ live happy ever after,” the babble in the ladies’ cloak-
room was mostly about how these silken dames would
have to “ bust ” themselves to “ ketch ” their respective
boats and trams.
A returned actor tells that during the recent “ scrap-
ping’’season in S’Africa a second-rate company of barn-
stormers struck Bloemfontein with a one-night-only
outrage on the “ Silver King.” A mob of very tired
Tommies had just entered the town after a long and
sleepless march, and they swarmed into the hall as soon
as the doors were open. There they all immediately fell
asleep. The play began, and the entire audience still
remained in “ by-bye,” and never a soul moved an eyelid
till the crack of a firearm announced the mock murder of
Geoffrey Ware. Then the audience sprang to attention
with such violence that the company fled, and didn’t
return, the Spider remaining all night in an adjacent
brick oven, where he had taken cover. No injury was
inflicted, however, except by the players to the play—and
that was done while the audience wasn’t looking.


m
WANTS
A
HOSE.
That is, if it
hasn’t grot
one already.
It ought to have
a Garden Hose
if you want
good crops.
You can’t better
the best. . .
You’ll get it at • •
PERDRIAU & CO.
RUBBER
MERCHANTS
270 GEORGE ST.
m
We Ship on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
Dludels
£2.Wt0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Kims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocyclea
Tyres , Accessaries, Sporting Goods
/md Sewing Machines Half Usual
Brices. Write for Catalogues and
Special Offer using sufficient for-
eign postage. Address Dept 339-B
MEAD OYGLE GO ,
CHICAGO
U* S* A*
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTH INGTOIf
TRADE MARX*
• - .
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Boiler Feed Pump.
®* r SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, London
Warren Webster <& Co. wewjerao*
Enquiries Invited fob
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
m
TAKTGYES
OIL ENGINES
Som Australian Representatives—
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth and Coolgardie.
Sole Agents for
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
FAY-EGAN WOODWORKING MACHINERY
m
For
m
The “ Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney,
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Bteam Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, etc., eto.
n
I
m
T. M. GOODALL & CO. , 129 HAY ST., SYDNEY
m
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE-
PortabSe, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Irrigation and
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Plants a
and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
•«S X „fg X ‘azig
are Direct Importers
and have
for Sale—
SNOW
(all sizes
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Co*cks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRVTTON & CO., Ltd.
. 97 CLARBWCB STREET, SYDNEY. *
m
“ THE RAPLIN ”
Hand Ice Machine
FOR DOMESTIC USE.
A Great Convenience in
the Country.
ICE PRODUCED IN 20 MINUTES
by simply turning a handle.
A Decanter of Water cooled in
3 Minutes.
No Risk. No Trouble.
KEEP COOL!
ICE MAKING
—AND—
COOLING PLANTS
SUITABLE FOB
Cold Stores, Meat Companies,
Provision Merchants,
Steamship Companies*
HSF ESTIMATES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
( REID S PATENT
Mechanical Punka
The Only Satisfactory Ventilator.
Cool Rooms. No Files.
Can be operated by Electricity,
Steam, Gas, Oil, or any other
power.
For Restaurants, Factories,
Offices, Shops, Hospitals,
Private Residences, Steam-
ship Saloons, Sc.
CHJTHRIDCE, Ltd
•3
Clarence St.;
