

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
s
Absolu |ly
PureT
therefore
Best
Co cost
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
Mining
<3-. «S£ 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
Most
Up-to-Date
Machines.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of .your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
KIRGHNER & m
“ O-rantl
Paris, 1800.
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
gj Hm the WORLD’S RECORD
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
SOLE AGENTS ;
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., <* wtt street, SYDNEY.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Explosive. Cor. CLARENCE & KINCJTS :I S^g^_
THORNES
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBART.
[jadley’s Orient fiotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grabs).
j. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
’ T .M. the King’s
„ r* of Experts
awarded them
highest honors
London Exhibi-
tion.
“ The liancet ”
says: “Pure and
genuine, and
specially suitable
for Invalids.”
DIGESTION
Ul
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
The Australian Sailorman’s Book
E. J. BRADY’S
“Che Ways of many Waters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
ss. 3d. post free from Thk Bulletin office.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade — viz., the above handsome xsrooc 1
(anv name or three initials) made of extra quality
‘Jet. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of t : U.iA or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, loot
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent tree.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our on'.jj address—
COLE’S BOOK ASCAOE. MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
Mining: and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &o.
Fowler Traction Engines.
-The Clyde Engineering C?y,Lt
Desiccating Piants.
Hopper Waggons, & c .
PRCOF
QneS.
Head Office:
10 BUCK ST., SYDNEY
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from Us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order' HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUK SPKCIAIi No. 2
£8 18/6
I)«liT«;refJ at any Wharf «*r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 26 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
fTHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
-*- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
1-hour by tram. Billiards, eto.
USE
SPOONER’S
u
SPOONERS
*
. 4.1 »
*****
WENT LEATHER BOOTS
rCLXZEO KfOS^
“ ><Wl|»W| Ml
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION.
Liquid Blacking.
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing’s,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
The Bulletin
Vo] 24.—N0. 1203.]
[Saturday, March 7, 1903
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Book trade JUwtmumi.
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S MAIL.
Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
IST‘Neill, EgregioQs English, 3s 6(i, postage 6d.
Proctor, Manufacture of Leather, 21s, p. 6d.
Thornes, Heresy of Teetotahsm, (is. p. 6d.
Gibbons, Industrial Progress, Os, p, Od,
Savage Egyptian Tragedy, 2s Od & Si «d p. 6d
Dunne Observations of Mr. Dooley, :is.6d, p.
Gw,vnn To-day and To-morrow in Ireland, 6s, |
?2 ?
Inwall, Prodnction «f Zinc, 15s, postage 7d.
Pierson, Principles of Economics, 12s, p. Bd.
Thornton, Continental (is, p. 7d.
Creswick, South Africa of the Future, 9s, p. Bd.
Davis (R.W.), Captain Macklin, 2s 6d & 2s 6d, p. 6d.
Riddell, Poor Fellows, 2s Oil & 3s Cd, p. 6d.
Wheeler, Story of Our Army (Lib. U. Stories), Is, p. 3d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(HEGISTEKED).
<s3£>
».-♦:
* - •' . -
rtrr<
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
Influenza, and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION-
Invaluable tor Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOU) BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR, POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q-
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENT
They ease a Tired Throaty and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia-
THE RED PAGE.
The Forest Flora of Neiv South Wales, Part I,
by .T. H. Maiden (Sydney ; N.S.W. Govt.
Printer ; Is.) is dated 1902, and was delivered for
review on Feb. 18. If published in 1903 it should
be so dated; if published in 1902, that rate of
transmission is too slow.
vZ
Generally speaking, the Australian Govern-
ments have many more good servants than you
would expect from the tendency of “the Govern-
ment stroke” to slacken zeal and discourage
initiative. There are barnacles, of course ;
but one meets good men continually, and
still with a slight reaction of astonishment.
J. H. Maiden, N.S.W. Govt. Botanist, appears to
be a thoroughly good servant. We like his alert
mind, his lively enthusiasm for bis calling, and
the spirit with which he defends Sydney Botanic
Gardens from utilitarian attack.—Which is meant
for a word of praise in season (and the carp at
home in this aquarium will be found in the next
paragraph).
jZ J*
The Forest Flora is to be issued in shilling
parts, number not stated. It is designed to give
both scientific and popular information about
N.S.W. trees, in both the aesthetic and the commer-
cial aspect; and the writer does not disdain rele-
vant matter because it is merely interesting.
The object is good; and the work is good.
The botanical commentary is written with
care and knowledge, and practical notes are
added. Part I. deals with silky oak, rusty fig,
turpentine and pittosporum. We suggest, first,
that a list of the trees considered be printed on the
outer cover, by way of contents-table, and that
the inner cover bontain a specific invitation to
readers to add to the stock of the writer’s
knowledge, admittedly incomplete. Second, that
a running subject-heading be added to the pages :
for convenience. Third, that the “ explanation ”
of Miss Flockton’s excellent illustrative plates be
printed on the plates: it is inconvenient to turn
over several pages for reference. Fourth, that the
Govt. Printing Office be adjured to supply a com-
petent reader: there are several blunders in
spelling and grammar— e.g., homogenous, p. 12;
“ The following appear to us militate against the
growth of cobra,” p. 24; “There is one portion
which, from long experience and observation, I
must remain at issue, ” p. 26 ; —and so on.
vZ jZ
The Forest Flora represents a valuable idea and
useful labour; and it is relinquished to readers
with quotation of this pretty aboriginal variant of
a world-myth, reported from Prairie Creek, N.Q.
It was a long time ago. No one lived in the country
then ; but pittosporum bush grew along this creek, as it
grows now. One day a seed-pod opened, and out of it
came a beautiful young gin. Very beautiful she was, and
stately, and she lived alone on the creek by the water-
holes, hunting sugar-bags and trapping duck, and getting
fat grubs from the trees.
It was a long time ago. She lived thus for months, it
may be years ; but all the time she was pining for a mate.
And one day she was strolling past another patch of
scrub, and looking at a pittosporum bush, when, lo ! a
seed-pod opened, and out of it came a handsome young
blaekfellow.
He was well-built and manly ; he was of her own age :
and without any ado she bade him good-day, and entered
into conversation. He walked with her to her camp by
the waterhole, and they became good friends, and lived
there together. After a time she gave birth to a son and
daughter, and when these grew up they went lower
down the creek, and settled there And they were happy.
It was a long time ago.
For in those halcyon days marriage by capture
was unknown ; and .. . the lady spoke first. The
blaekfellow, it should be added, pointed out the
pittosporum bush that was the mother of the gin,
and indicated that the bush-mother of the young
man was also known.
*
The investigation of flora reminds us of an old
grievance : to wit, we have but a scanty poetical
nomenclature for our flowers and trees. And . . .
contributor E.M.S. continues —
The foreign bard has at command a store of beautiful
and familiar flowers and plants, possessing well-known
names which he can introduce into his verses for similes,
and which go straight to the hearts of his readers. The
Australian writer, on the contrary, finds often the most
common objects destitute of vernacular titles, or if pos-
sessing them, they are usually an echo of an old-world
name—native rose, native bluebell, native violet, native
daisy, 4cc. Suppose I burst into song—a love song—an
Australian love song, freed from all foreign influence, you
get something like this :
Gentle maiden, hear my singing t
There is none 1 love but thee :
Sweet as smilax glyciphylla
Are thy dear lips unto me.
From between them, lightly parted.
Doth thy balmy breathing go:
Not boronia ledifolia
Doth such blessed fragrance know.
0, believe thy fond adorer
When he tells thee, maMen meek,
That epacris longiflora
Would grow pale beside thy cheek t
Paludosa microphylla
With thy white neck cannot vie,
And the modest wahlenbergia
Is not bluer than thine eye-
Dost remember where I wooed thee ?
Where our plighted vows were made t
Ah, those kisses, those caresses
In the pittosporum shade 7 . . .
As with fond, tenacious purpose
To its chosen , well-loved tree,
Clings Mgrsdenia suavelens,
All my life I ’ll cling to thee !
S
The grievance is stated ; but the remedy is not
easily found. There is no denying that familiar
poetical names for flora are among the most effec-
tive weapons of the poet. Many old-world names
have been worn into beauty by centuries of attri-
tion : uncouth in their origin, they have become
admirable in form and cadence by dint of sheer
hard usage. Then, old-world names are thrilling
with associated ideas ; they are keys to unlock a
million doors, of memory. As a distinguished
writer has pointed out, “ The rose is a beautiful
flower, but the most beautiful only because thou-
sands of years of care and cultivation have been
lavished to bring it to perfection, because thou-
sands of lovers have breathed its perfume, thou-
sands of poets have apostrophised its exquisite
form. Give the same care and cultivation to a
hundred modest bush flowers, draw them from
obscurity as the rose has been drawn from the
parent wilderness, let them be worshipped
and adored through centuries of sentiment—and
we have here the rivals of the Rose herself.”
Only, before we can worship and adore, we want
names; and those names must be known, not
only to the poet-priests, but to the vulgar,
“ Native’’-something won’t do: it is not a name,
but a label like “The Unknown God.”
This is suggested. Language is being created
continually at haphazard : let us create it delibe-
rately. A substantial body of a hundred thousand
Australians, labouring persistently in speech and
print, would soon supply our long-felt want; and
that number of devotees is not beyond the dreams
of poetry. The Australian Natives’ Association
might be diverted for a while from its business of
machine politics and mutual admiration, in order
to further the great aim. A water-tight, beer-
tight pledge might be mentally made by every
adherent of the league : “I, A B , solemnly
vow that I will name the so-called ‘native rose’
Lamio, rtow and for evermore, Amen. So help me
Australia!” Sporadic individual usage once
created, a national epidemic usage would follow
naturally ; and bv-and-by we would accumulate
associated ideas and broaden down from precedent
to precedent.
First we need the names. These should be
compounded chiefly of long vowels and liquid
consonants, with just sufficient variation to
give them individuality—following Bacon’s idea
that “there is no excellent beauty that hath
not some strangeness in the proportion.”
A dactylic or trochaic disposition of the syllables
would be the most useful and permanent, though
choice monosyllables would be valuable. As far
as possible, the colour and sound of the word
should imitate the flower. Vowels and consonants
have distinct colours, singly or in combination ;
though, unluckily for our purpose, colour impres-
sions differ.* Still, there may be a statistical har-
mony. As a beginning The Bookfellow will con-
sider and classify everybody’s lists of not more than
ten well-known Australian flowers whose claim to
poetical glory is impeded by harsh or unsuitable
names. When possible, lists should give botanical
names, habitat, and current misnomers. Flowers
such as the waratah, which are not too heavily
handicapped, should be passed over.—This may
be a dream: it depends on your interpretation
thereof.
+
[j Scene , Manly. Time, 7 a.m. Persons, three
rhymers bathing in the same dish. In the back-
ground of breakers a mob of undistinguished Manly-
ites relishing this new shudder, this unpublished
sensation .]
First Rhymer :We must band together, Horace ! We
have been despised too long! We must make our in-
fluence felt 1
Second Rhymer : Wait, let me tell you 1 I saw yester-
day the prettiest woman I ever saw in all my life—in all
my life ! And I said to her: “Do you know what you
are ? You are the spirit of the Wood beyond the World !
You are the dream of all the Parises that have captured
all the Helens since Beauty was created. You are . .
Third Rhymer : Did you see that thing of mine in
tha . . .
Second Rhymer : And I said to her, “ Do you know
what lam ? lam the Grey Wolf !! No, Ido not look it
Ido not look it! They would give me the sacrament
without confession ! But lam the Grey Wolf! and lam
going to devour you!—to devour you! do you under-
stand T
Third Rhymer: Did you see that thing I did for
the . . . ?
First Rhymer : We must make our influence felt 1
We must band together! . . .
Second Rhymer (pettishly): Oh, bah ! what’s the use
of talking? You follows are full of nothing but your-
selves. . . . Hey, Buckem!
[ The scene changes. ]
jX •
The poetical litigant ’s amusing. Melb. Practice
Court was amused last week by a litigant who
mouthed his plaint against his father in lines like
these (quoted from Sydney Telegraph’s report)—
“ My r o d. I charge defendant here with a wrongful use
of power
In selling as a mortgagee in mode unlawfully,
To wit, tuo mortgages. He sold of titles different
For one lump sum and in one lot unto one purchaser,
At undervalue of deep gross, through bad faith bitterness ,
And with ill motives to oppose myself as mortgagor."
“What’s that?” interrupted the judge, in astonish-
ment. “ Dear me ! is it blank verse ? ”
“ It enables me to state my case,” said the plaintiff,
and, waving his arm, he went on—
“ A Full Court case, Volume the eighth, of Y.L.R. My
Lord,
Cn : Ross, against the Vi dorian Building Society ”
A rude outburst of laughter drowned plaintiff’s voice,
and he immediately took the opportunity of handing up
to the judge a copy of his epic, and continued—
“ My lord , in the year 1881 Great Britain passed a law
Named the Conveyancing and Law and Property Act."
(Laughter.) . . . There was much laughter during the
reading of many other stanzas. Coming to the close of
his oration, plaintiff, in a fine declamatory style, re-
ferred to the ill-will of his father in the following terms :
“ So bitter he tha/t when 1 was but V years,
Fair with my mother's care, he sadly to>k his home
To Melbourne from Geelong, that. I might no more dwell
with him.
May this pugfice t 'll the suit be heard. As to his bitterness
With motives ill conjoined. And then as to the ninth
paragraph,
It forms a link in the chain of fraud and cannot be
struck out ”...
At the end, dropping into prose, plaintiff said : “ I
claim substantial damages, each side to pay the costs of
its application now.”
His lloßour was apparently unmoved by the poet’s
effort, and simply said he would have to amend his state-
ment of claim as asked by striking out Ibur paragraphs
and altering the others, but, he could attach his poem to
the claim if he liked. (Loud laughter.)
“Can I have a week to amend my claim?” asked
Yes, a fortnight if you like. Costs three
cuineas.* ....
,-oet put his poem tenderly in his bag and went
happily away with a smile of triumph on his face.
This plaintiff was lucky in appearing before
Judge Hood merely. If he had arisen in another
court, with Hermione —
Your honours all ,
I do refer me to the oracle:
ApoUo be my judge ! —
the deity might have- handled him worse than
Marsyas was handled.
The Neto Idea, a Melb. monthly for women, is
welcome. Women want that kind of inaga., and
there is no reason why they should go abroad for
it. The staple is triviality, of course; but the
triviality has profound significance. Straw-hats
show which way the sex-instincts blow, and the
love of personal adornment is commendable not
only in itself, but also as the source of decorative
art.
J* J*
Besides, The New Idea aspires to be the Aus-
tralian woman’s mouthpiece. The new idea of
giving woman a mouth piece may seem, like gild-
ing refined gold, a “ wasteful and ridiculous
excess ” ; still, in our developing world, the
public need may exist contemporaneously with
the private satisfaction, —and that is seen par-
ticularly in connection with the case of woman.
It is not desirable to lure woman awa> from her
primal function by polishing her brain too sedu-
lously ; for enlightened opinion returns to the
ordinance of Solon and the compromise of Athens.
But the Review of Reviews Co., which publishes The
New Idea, is doubtless right to gij. e opportunity
for argument; and, as we are assured by many
clamorous platform orators that man has the best
end of the social stick, it is pleasant to think that
woman can always rely upon the clergy to keep
her end up.
Jt
The February number of The New Idea has a
capital interview with P. M. Carew-Smyth,
art inspector of Victorian schools, regarding
“Brush-work in Education ” —that is, the use of
the brush in order to train hand and eye, and to
teach the rudiments of decorative design, Here
is a design by P. M. C.-S. based on our own wild
honeysuckle, and its decorative value is apparent.
This design, the end-paper drawn by Percy
Lindsay for The Bulletin Story Book, and one or
two other things of the kind, may represent the
beginning of Australian applied art. Lucian
Henry, years ago, made some designs for metal-
work and sculpture ; but they did not seem com-
mercially profitable. An Arts and Crafts Club
has been founded recently in Sydney, and one
hopes it will prosper. Now . . the commercial
enterprise of constructing fabrics and furniture
based on Australian designs is recommended to
investors. There is already a demand for Aus-
tralian carpets and floor-cloths, mats, wall-papers,
dress-stuffs, and so on ; and, as the idea of The
Australian Nation grows, that demand will in-
crease. It is time somebody with business brains
set about meeting it. We are weary of the Lion
and the Rose. Begin with a wall-paper and a car-
pet : produce them well ; and they will sell. Our
fauna and flora are especially adapted for decora-
tive use. Lindsay’s design, just referred to, is
a good end-paper; but it would look possibly
better as a frieze. Why, when an Australian
goes house-furnishing, should he be restricted to
the patterns and emblems of countries that
probably he has never seen, when his own original,
charming continent lavishes inspiring ideas for
the adornment of his home?
Then, turning the pages of The New Idea with
that noble notion, the Ewig-Weibliche led
suddenly to this ignoble issue—•
Pimples ...
Purple pimples are chronic . . .
“Purple pimples are chronic ! ” It lingers, it is
haunting, talismanic. . . . Where do women get
these purple pimples? Where do editors get
these purple phrases? ... It fastens on the
brain, and gnaws, and gnaws . . . Must lay the
ghastly ghost . . .
The ingenious correspondent—
Merino asks for date of Bulletin publication of verge#
with line, “ The road to hell is sheep."
H.F.: The resemblance between On Our Selection and
The Way backs struck us only as amounting to this • that
if there hadn’t been any 0.0.S., there wouldn’t have
been any IK. Incidentally, what does your “ great com
mereial success ” amount to in cash ?
R.A.K : Send a stamped, addressed, envelope and
we ’ll send an address..
Thargo : (1) Buy a Is. manual of wood-engraving. (21
Draw with Indian-ink on good white paper or board! '
M. : That young man is celebrated chiefly by all the good
that he says of himself and all the evil that he says ol
others.
A.O. : Cannot consider at present Hugo; Chiefly
nonsense : time and again the Irish element has been the
inspiration of English literature H.E. : Fear you area
gay deceiver A.McN. ; Address 72 Qlileman-st., E.0,
London.
je
The eager publisher—
The Magazine of Co amerce, January. This time, by
way of criticism, we say that the intrusion of a price-
placard injures the fine cover-design; and we ask
Hobbs, Hart, and Co. how they expect to sell mortise and
rim latch-locks in Australia at 22s. 6d. and 25s., when the
practically equivalent Yale lock is sold at 5s. 6 d. and 6s
6 d.i
Australians All, by G. Spencer Briggs. (Robertson;
Toowoomba ; Is. ) Primitive tales for primitive folk.
Biography up to date. Maxim, Gorky ; his Life and
Writings, by E. J. Dillon.
With Louis Becke’s new book, The Jalasco Brig, he
changes his publisher—not a good omen, maybe. The
Brig has a miscellaneous carg<s, stowed in Becke’s later
manner—more fluent, less forcible.
“ Ada Cambridge "is publishing Thirty Years in Aus-
tralia— described by the publisher as “ A highly interest-
ing account of a generation in Australia by a distinguished
writer. Mrs. Cross’s style is picturesque, and the book is
more attractive than many novels. The early difficulties
of Australian,settlers, life in the towns, and life on the
farms are vividly described."
Memoranda —
“ L’acre parfum des eucalyptus.” That is the second-
no, third time we have met that acre parfum. Will ie
Courrier Francais kindly tell France that the perfume ol
the eucalyptus at home is piquant, troublant, seduisant,
but never acre to the true Australian soul until bottled
for influenza. (Possibly it changes on the Riviera, where
rastaquouerea go to exhale the acridity of Parise.)
D.F. : Melb. Argus, advertising(l4/2/3) the sale of seven
different translations of Homer, sets them out each time
as “Horner’s Iliad,’’ “ Horner’s Odyssey." Melb. Age,
comparing (14/2/3) one of Wellington’s lieutenants with
Napoleon’s dashing Murat, speaks of “ the Marat ol
the British Army,” and says further on that “in
his magnificent uniform . . . he was no less conspicuous
in the field of battle than Marat” That absurdity surely
would have drawn a smile from even the sour, squalid
“ friend of Che people."
Picture of Christian baptism in Australia, by Canon
Jones, Sydney :--“A number of women, with their chil-
dren, gathered round the font, no sponsors present, no
congregation, the women themselves with no realisation
of the solemn covenant to be formally entered into, often
not knowing what they have to say in response to the
clergyman’s questions, but requiring to have the answers
put into their mouths by the clergyman or verger; no
attempt to carry out the direction about dipping the
child or pouring water upon it, and sometimes, when the
child is old and vigorous enough to struggle when taken
into the arms of the clergyman, considerable doubt
whether water is applied at all.”
Sydney Municipal Council has engaged E. H. Lemaire-
■organist at Carnegie Hall, Pittsburg, U.S.A.; formerly at
St. Margaret’s, Westminster, London—to give eighteen
organ recitals during next August and following months,
at a fee of £BOO..
Tapu, a musical comedy composed' by Alfred H ' a
written by “ Arthur Adams and J. C. Williamsc
Herald), or by “ J C. Williamson and Arthur Atiami
(Telegraph), has been successfully played at Wellington
by the Pollard Opera Company ; and will be staged pre-
sently in Australia. “The libretto has been altered by
Mr. Bert Royle so we shall watch with interest now
the names fight one another on the bills.
Arthur Galton—once our Arthur—is writing a -memoir
of Lionel Johnson, the writer and true poet who cueo
sadly in London last year. (
Conscience prompts another kind word for T. P. »
Weekly, which keeps on being interesting ; but anyone
who wants to see how humourless an Irishman can oa
should look at the first article in No.B The Unworld-
liness of Tennysos.” Lest this should meet the eyes ol
other humourless Irishmen, we hasten to add that t
Irish, as a race, are perhaps the most humourousof races,
But . .. . some individuals ! My grief !
J. S. Evison died in his sixty-second year. He published
a couple of books in Maorilapd ; _but his best work is m
his short stories, several of which would j
Kipling. A while ago he wrote of himself: My genera*
impression of life is that it is hard. But the good
I have had ! Oh, the good times!"
A shire secretary actually brought (and Io3t ) ‘ e {o
action against Oakleigh Guardian . |y.
him as “the heaven-born secretary of ®kire him »
grave—according to the journal that ~ born ;
What would he have done had he been called beU-
As Liddell Kelly points out, people regard epithets di
ently—in China. . .
N.S.W. Art Society interviewed Instruction- im
ter Perry last week re that overdue subsidy, a
could get only £4OO of £BOO voted. Pres. L ster and
pled bard for the £l5O scholarship as well, but *
Perry answered a. cold ‘No.”’ The In ® tr princess
alas ! is the Cinderella of the family ; and, white"*®
Sullivana gambols heedless of expense, the poor
maiden gets cold porridge on the estimates a
shoulder in the Cabinet.
—4. —^
Stray—
Picked up recently in Sydney Criminal Court-
Mr. Attorney-Solicitor-General.
Though A plus B may equal C,
His Honour doth surmise
That Wise can never Pollock be,
And Pollock . . . never. Wise.
A.U.S.
BALLADE OF PURPLE PIMPLES.
Moons are a fickle fry ;
Suns are escaping gas ;
See Pan-Creation die
Of enlarged pancreas 1
The universal mass
Lacks even curchitectonic:
God is Man’s looking-glass . .
But purple pimples are chronic.
The amaranthine lie
Arraigns its purple class:
Beauty must Helen sigh ;
Valour, Leonidas:
Where’s Tyre ? where Hippocras ?
1 ask with pen ironic
(In purple ink, alas !) . . .
But purple pimples are chronic.
And Chronos, throned on high
Above the vast morass,
Sees matter form and fly,
Sees Maya gleam and pass :
The worlds are moron as grass :
His scythe, a leech laconic,
Shrives all—riefas aut fas . . .
But purple pimples are chronic.
BXVOT.
Tout passe, tout lasse, tout casse ,
Even the rat bubonic :
Om nia vqnitas I
But purple pimples are chronic.
That, surely, is a stake driven through the vara-
pire-heart !


WINGHCOMBE, CARSON, and GO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNE Y.
Send your__-^
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
_ SYDNEY,
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick Returns.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Solo Commission. 3 Per Cent, to tlxe Grower
on Largo and Small Accounts Alike.
S. FREEMAN SONS UHSEE
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNTAKD SQUARE,, SYDNEY
HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
COOLING,
FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
6°
5806 Wi
CBB
6807
5808
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEB.— Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T*B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bard •
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe.
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
N
fes
aM IL
Ss. m
RICHMOND,VA.^
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
“SOLID SHOT” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tengue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
Sole Agent for C. 8.8. Briar Pipes.
Send for Whole sale Price Lists.
“Arkansas” Mixture
A Blend of the very highest grade Tobacco*
Packed in jib. Tins, 7s. 6d. lb.
Sample £lb. Tins, 25., post free
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
HEALTH and HAPPINESS
—
DOES not every man wish to be strong, to be able to meet successfully the every-day issues of maN^THE
when the body is weak, the brain weary, and ability to concentrate the mind is missing. ’
MAN WHOSE MIND IS ALERT, and who is wide awake, who succeeds nowadays. Be at the top be as good and better than
the next man. If you feel that you are run down, that you are weak; if you have tried the OLD AND EYEI-
DRUG METHOD, give it up. Your body is like an engine without steam, your nerve force is exhausted, you have no energy, yo
have no steam. “ ELECTRICITY IS LIFE.” It is the potent factor in the human body. Electricity is the only rational andcer am
cure for functional disorders. If your BACK ACHES, if you are NERVOUS, if you have RHEUMATISM LUMBAGO INDIGES-
TION, STOMACH or KIDNEY TROUBLES, ELECTRICITY, properly applied, will cure you. There is no doubt about it. It cannot
fail. It quickens the pulse, invigorates the blood, puts new life into every neive.
Dr. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
AND FREE ELECTRIC SUSPENSORY FOR MEN
Will cure any of these troubles. It is the modern remedy f or’all a^ m ®'pp' I’AKE 0 ; new
invigorating nerve life into your body for hours at a time. vviLn stubborn CASES SUCCUMB ENTIRELY, and you can
energy comes with each night’s wear, until, at the end of three m > Electric Belt is the production of years of scientific investiga-
lay the Belt aside a healthy and strong man or vvoman. McLaughlin be fel( f at ftU timeB by the wearer,
tion. It is the only adjustable body Belt that has ever been mad P d ” fc in an i nst;V nt, and does not burn or blister the
that is absolutely under control of the patient. The current. cm be ™de imld or t alway ’ bless the day- IT IS AS GOOD
flesh. It is guaranteed to last a year, and, with care, will last a lifetime, use y j
FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN. .
;% /
' L
R
£
N:>
From Tasmania.
The pains in my back and shoulders are quite -one, and my back
and nerves are now much better. I can sleep at night now without
those horrible dreams that use to torment me.
' Yours truly,
Wesley vale, X.-W. Coast. ROBERT PIPER. _
From Victoria.
tw ciira Tam sending you a report of my condition, and am
K./.O .e»n“ .5 i l .™ Belt, and nev.r fail to do ,o.
Yours truly, G . W. SAUNDERS.
Erskdale.
From West Australia.
Ti e doctors here hail done all possible for me, and could only
relieve my terrible Sciatica. In three days your belt stopped the
pain, and now I am entirely well. I had suffered foi years, and I
can never repay you for what you’ve done.
Yours gratefully,
Angel Terrace, Coolgardie. f’- w - KELnY
From N.S.W.
Tub Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs.—Your Belt is doing me a lot of good, and I feel twice
the fellow since I got it, having only had two slight attacks since I
have worn the Belt, but they were nothing to speak of. I consider
it worth twice as much as I gave for it.
I would advise anyone suffering in a similar manner to try one, as
it is worth its weight in gold. I remain yours truly
Mt. Keira. CHARLES STONE.
From Queensland.
Dear Sirs,-I suffered for a long time from general weakness, de-
bility and nervous exhaustion. I tried everything-ehange of
climate etc.-but your Belt gave me the first real relief I ever had
and ultimately cured me. I can never thank you enough for what
you have done for me. Yours truly, JOHN KINO.
Marine Department, Edward-street, Brisbane.
From New Zealand.
'Deai ß S irs.^ -J was"so °de 1 ig hted with my Belt that I quite forgot
all shout writing to you. lam pleased to be able 1 1 ®, 1^ ou t j
the pain over my heart has entirely disappeared already, and I
don’t tire so easily as I used to. lam more than pleased and will
always recommend your Belt. .
I remain, yours sincerely,
Pahiatua, New Zealand. OTTO WEBB.
FREE DIAGNOSIS.
If you will write for our book and statement blank, \ve
will diagnose your case, entirely free of any cost. It
IS ISO CATCH TO THIS STATEJVIEN i. We make no
charge, except the price of a Belt, if you decide to 01 “-
You should read the book, anyhow ; it is full of good things
for a sick man to see. Beautifully illustrated, and sent free
to any address. Post paid. Our Belts are sent every-
where—DUTY FREE.
to
IN
Tree
These letters prove the gratitude of our patients ; prove that there is more in life than some of us
are wont to make out; prove that when wo tell men and women that we can cure them we will not
disappoint them. Read them carefully, and imagine how nice it would seem for you to talk likewise.
Do as they did, and if you are at all curable, we’ll make you strong and vigorous. They read oui ad-
vertisement^Some of them called at our office, learned what we said was true, had a free test of our
Belt and began to get well. Others wrote, being too far away to call, lhey asked for our beautiful
illustrated book, describing our method. We sent it them. It is free, and we mail it to any address,
post paid They got it, read it and testimonials from dozens of other people who had been similarly
afflicted, made up their mind, began the treatment, and to-day, dear reader, you see the result.
WE USE NO DRUGS in conjunction with our Belt, HENCE IT IS INEXPENSIVE
as compared to the old and obsolete method of dosing the stomach in vogue by
some self-styled specialists.


SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renowned
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,,
SYDNEY.
m,
's'i
If
m
m
m
m
m.
si
m
m
m
m
m
WKm
SB&
Hi
Hh
I
'V
i't:
is,T l
'
'
§©
ii
“ZITA” (Regd.) ADJUSTER
GIVES that charming dip-front or long waist effect now so essential
to well-dressed woman. It can be put on instantly and adjusted
to any depth. There are no spikes. The wearer will be surprised
at the extraordinary difference lengthening the front of the waist makes
to the figure. Never have results so striking been achieved by a device
so simple. | T MAKES YOUR WAIST LOOK SMALLER.
Size 1 for waists up to 24 in. Size 2 for waists above 24 in.
if unable to obtain from your Draper, send Money Order or English stamps for 18d. to the Manufacturers
\y. PRETTY & SONS, Ltd. (Dept. 2), Ipswich, England.
All Roads Alike to
as Oldsmobile
The enduring and reliable qualities of the Oldsmobile were recently
proven in a long distance run held in America between New York
and Boston —500 miles.
It Was the only machine ill the 1,000 pounds class that made the
run without a penalized stop, winning the highest award.
It is made to run and does it. The motor is of simplest construc-
tion, the result of 17 years’ experience in building of Gas Engines
and Automobiles. Starts at will from seat and is always under
instant control of the operator.
Sells in America for $650.00
(^’ l 3s) and the freight here
is not large. The cheapest
reliable automobile made.
Write for free catalogue,
illustrated.
Agents:
w. A. RYAN & CO., LTD., Auckland.
Olds Motor Works ,
Detroit, Mich•
U.S.A.
CLOTHED WITH AIR
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering-, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recoin-
mended by the Mc^|/ V is a Sure Preventative against Chills
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
b'Slb fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling’, &c.
White body, 7s 6d; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body—
-9s 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs — 6s 6d, 7s 6d
giSS E
-
-*■
w
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
High or Low Necks. .
s. d.'
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace .. .. ..56
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..70
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 9 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery .. .. 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..90
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery .. .. .. 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 o
Aertex Cellular Chemises*
White Cotton, trimmed Embroidery,
Bs. White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices.
High or Low Necks. All sizes
to 30in ; sizes, extra.
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List —Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
Sole Agents.
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
«
Cellular Tennis Shirt*
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. Cd. to 11s. 6d.
x ♦j&£§U
.4 * 4* xVt**
W €♦ *% n <tjw
fvV'» V'/vs'k« w.* *4JMJ
♦ •.*:<■>%£?»> * -* * few**-®
<> 4* <*;.** '♦uf!
*-v-». Steffi* * * *'«/!» « • «>j
4 >.'#•>• 4* .<•*• W:*&.
, * >4:»«sv «..v 4 jivW 4 44.1
A Piece op
Aertex Cellular Fabric.
Fabrics by the yard or piece—ln
Cottons, Bd. to Is. 9d.; Lisle
Thread, Is. 3d. to 2s. ; Silk and
Cotton Mixture, 3s. 6d.; Merinos
and Wools, 3s. 3d. to 4s. 9d.; Silk
and Merino Mixture, 4s. 6d.
Send for Full Price List.
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. .. 15 6
C 2 ~ long waist, 14£in deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 141 in., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips ..15 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels . ..8 6
i
=53
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
)
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
1
There’s SECURITY in
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
•Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the
LIVER
Be Sure they are
Carter's
r
$
(George Adams,
J
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tatter sail’s on and after Ist
Januiry, 1303, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every <£l, and so on.
NOW OPEN
DONCASTER HANDICAP—
Randwick, N.S.W., April 11 25,000 at 5/1
SYDNEY CUP-
Randwick, N.S.W., April 13 25,000 at 5/1
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TAriERSALL ) SIILL
CONTINUES bis business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELI VERM CO. doing business with Tasmania.


M.
■K
If you are young,
you naturally ap-
pear so.
why appear so ?
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
will surely restore
color to your gray
hair, and will give
to it all the
I wealth and
gloss of ear-
ly life. It
wi 11 stop
falling of
the hair
also; and
will keep
the scalp clean and healthy, entirely
free from dandruff.
And it makes the hair grow thick
and long. This is because it is a hair-
food, giving to the hair just what it
needs to make it grow as nature in-
tended.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
There s a pleasure in offering to you
such a preparation ; while you will cer-
tainly feel a sense of security in using
something that others have used for
half a century.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Maas., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long-,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM*
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed,
illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
Co country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
nairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
Write To-Day.
Send
Postal Note.
VJ AWAY
THIS MONTH
...t0...
Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
2/6
The Bunch
Post Free.
3 Black Tips with Ospreys. A Marvel of Cheapness.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
MlflS
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
SOAPS
disinfectors
inhalers
fumicators
■II
•ainij
mmin
mi
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON.
POISONOUS
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYCENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Caudles - \
Formic Fumigators /
KINGZETT'S
PATENTS.
"HOW TO DISINFECT ” Book Free.
THe “SAM ITAS ” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.
MiliifEOW
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Fi«pared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
14 AC IlilA .... F ° r UfG Assurance on the Mutual Principle. *
has money to lend
On Seou: i y of Freehold or
Lease! oi l Clfy or Suburban
Properties, or on
n , AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTPPF«it
up t 0 20 per
Esq. , Senator J. T. Walkkr ; J. Abbott, Esq • The Hon R r r/.™ at ’ ®®P u ty-Ch a irinan , Benjamin Short,
HPA G n e, n^T A^ na2erand FF a4ss ’ ! F ' E ' WisChcowbe . **<,., M.P
° mCE: 87 WTT «■* ««». ’ ROBERT B. CAMERON, S^U'y.
Commercial
Bugrgry,
£l4 109'
H. HilUer,
130 Sussex-sfc.,
SYDNEY.
S3T Send for a
Catalogue.
Went Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Lijfht Vehicles.
The Best and. Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
£lO BICYCLES £lO
From the FACTORY to the RIDER.
THE “ EARL” SPECIAL 1903 MODEL
Westwood Steel Rims and Dunlop Principle Tyres
Complete with Lamp and Bell. M y eB ‘
J. F. MCDERMOTT * CO., 30 Pitt-st., Sydne
Sole Factory Agents. Telephone 2671. “
V '
Hotelkeepers, make your own
TERMED WATERS
THE “ AUSTRAL ”, CRATED WATER MACHINE jemmies
only i?our Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTTLES
a \ 0( * lnes * ; Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale Sodawiter
&c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPKNOE PER DOZEN. Th4se machines
SouthTwca gm a “ thS Australian State 3. New Zealand, a"id
Write for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY ANP SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WINCHESTER
M ETALLIC CARTRIDGES.
URING our 30 years of gun making, we have
discovered many things about ammunition that
no one could learn in any other way. Our
discoveries in this line, together with years of
experience manufacturing ammunition, enable us
to embody many fine points in Winchester
Metallic Cartridges for rifles and revolvers which make them
superior in many ways to all other brands upon the market.
Winchester cartridges in all calibers are accurate, sure-fire
and exact in size; being made and loaded in a modern
manner by skilled experts. If you want the best
INSIST UPON HAVING WINCHESTER MAKE OF CARTRIDGES.
p
WESTOCK^^ WINC HESTER GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH STREET, fIELBOURNE.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
plays
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalog tie of
; Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
- Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
mv nod uivh aoof)
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair, if your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
gW For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF TIIE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NAT UR ALINE.
OS’ For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington 11. Sout, & Ca,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemisls, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 Geor-'i
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and °
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Grass Widower.
Oh, a cove feels awful lonely
When he’s by hisself a spell ;
If you asked him what’s the matter
Ten to one he couldn’t tell.
Food ain’t right, the bread is doughy,
Meat is tough as bloomin’ clay ;
Nothin seems to go kerreckly
When the missus is away.
Cows to milk at early mornin’,
Bloomin’ poddies then to feed ;
Pigs an poultry squeakin’ round ye—
Farmer’s life is nice indeed !
Then you have to get some breakfus’—
Dash it! have to bake to-day !
Batchin’s gettin’ mighty multy
When the missus is away.
Crows is takin’ all the chickens
While yer ploughin’ down below ,*
Hark ! goanners in the hen’s nest!
Hens is cacklin’ high an’ low.
You must get that ole goanner,
If it takes ye half a day;
Strange these bloomin’ things will ’appen
When the missus is away !
Neighbor’s sheep is through the bound’ry—
S’pose the bloomin’ wires is broke ;
Bloomin’ dog is out a-huntin’—
This is gettin’ past a joke '
Bloomin’ cows is in the barley—
Bust ’em ! let ’em bust, I say !
Ain t it funny, ’ow it ’appens
When the missus is away ?
Bust it all ! I’ll catch ole Bally,
Canter over to the post.
If this game goes on much longer
I’ll be poor as Caesar’s ghost.
Wimmen is so bloomin’ selfish !
They don’t care a rap, not they,
How a bloomin’ feller suffers
While his missus is away.
By the hokey, here’s a letter !
From the missus, too, all right.
Wonder what can be the matter !
Gives a cove a sort of fright.
If she’s goin’ to stop much longer,
There’ll be the dooce to pay;
I ain’t goin’ to do the graftin’
While she’s flyin’ round all day.
“ Dear old Tom, you must be lonely ;
Good old chap, to let me go;
But I miss you every day, Tom,
For I love you, Tom, you know.
I am leaving here on Thursday ;
Meet the coach on Saturday.”
That’s to-day—why—get up, Bally !
Hip, hip, hip, hoo bloomin’ ray J
n s.w.
JOHN C. WEARNE.
H.M.S.
Three thousand tons o’ metal,
Two hundred hearts a-score,
Ten thousand winds a-beatin’,
Ten billion seas a-roar !
Ten furnace-doors a-bangin’,
Ten sweaty chests a-steam,
Ten souls a-cursin’, cursin’,
With pain and heat o’ steam !
She ships it down her funnel—
Splash on her boiler steel!
We get it on our bodies,
In livid scar and weal !
We get it when she walk wa
Down under water-.-pi re.
We “get it ” when tht ocean
Pours down and drcw.is her f rs 3 !
“ Why ain’t she steamin’ faster ? ”
King Gold-lace thunders down ;
With scorched and parboiled bodies,
His Maj.’s stokers frown.
Why ain't she steamin' faster !—■
Because we get no coal
To drive this cursed hell-box
To aught but Davy’s goal!
Because our fuel’s measun d
So many tons per diem ;
Because our fires are out, an’
Our souls are scorched with steam !
Because she’s took to drinkin’
The salt stuff thro’ her stack ;
Because her engines funk it;
Because her heart’s a-rack !
“It’s bully in the navy,”
Chips Johnny Mercantile;
“ It’s bully in the King’s ships,
With lazin’ shafts to ile ! ”
It’s bully down in hell, then,
If it is bully here !
A man can leave a liner —
A King’s man cannot clear.
You’ve got to stop and stand it—
The torture of the steam ;
You’ve got to clean her boilers,
With heart and soul a-scream.
“ It’s bully in the navy ! ”
Yah ! bully when she ships
The seas to boil and scald you,
Down thro’ her funnel lips 1
It’s bully when your flesh is
Boiled soft as tender lamb ;
It’s joyous when the stokehold
Is used for picklin’ ham !
It’s better in the Navy ?
Gimme the Mercantile !
A King’s man’s got to stop, an*
Graft under Sheol’s smile !
Gimme the liners’ stokeholds,
A man can clear from them !
You cannot when you’re stokin’
For Crown an’ diadem !
It’s Hell to be a King’s Man,
With lazin’ shafts to ile;
You’re parboiled in the Navee !
Gimme the Mercantile !
GRANT HERVEY.


u
m
»■
Nip"—
Four Crown
Whisky
:
~^L4
f
'JC
xm
<1
X
A Doctor’s Present.
A Thrilling Story of Suffering
A Silver Lining to the Darkest Cloud.
The Case of Mrs. A. JOSEPHS.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
There is no suburb that has changed its
status as completely during the past twenty
years as that of Woolloomooloo.
the bay bearing that name, with its
picturesque walks along the foreshores, and
with Hyde Fark, the Botanical Gardens,
and the extensive Domain recreation
grounds in close proximity, Woolloomooloo
is one of the most attractive localities
around Sydney, and in it, at Iso. 18 Wood s
Lane, lives Mrs. Annie Josephs, whose in-
terview with our reporter is reproduced
below. v ~ „
“ £ have lived at tliis address,” said Mrs.
Josephs, “for the past eight years, and
when I had been here about half that time
I thought I was going to die. It was after
a confinement that I suffered from blood
poisoning, besides which I lost a great
quantity of blood, and became so weak
that I could not put a foot to the ground
for nearly twelve months. For almost a
year I was in bed, being nothing but a
helpless and hopeless invalid, for I must
tell you that all the treatment I had
received did not lead me to believe
that I would ever get better. There
seemed nothing for it but to lie and
wait patiently for death to relieve me of
my sufferings, as I kept on wasting and
wasting away, and I was almost paralysed
with agony.” . . . ~
“ Where were the pains principally
located ? ” enquired the pressman.
“They were in every part of my body,
and my head swelled till it was about twice
its natural size, besides aching so intensely
that I scarcely knew what was going on
around me. Sometimes I became quite
stupefied with pain, and as I never could
sleep at night it is not to be wondered at
that I got so worn out that I used to lie
like one in a trance. All my limbs were
swollen and terrible pains afflicted them as
well, and when the severity of my aches
became so intolerable that a change in my
position was necessary, I had to have a
hoop bound round with wadding put under
my legs, because I was too weak to keep
them bent for a second without having
something underneath to support them.
There was no doubt that the longer 1 lived
the worse I got, for my nervous system was
frightfully strained, as 1 could not keep my-
self from shaking, and my mind was always
in a state of fear and anxiety. By some
means that 1 cannot explain, because I was
not enlightened on the subject myself, my
vision became very dim, and I nearly lost
the sight of my right eye. As an operation
was indispensable, I went under it, and
although my sight was saved, yet the strain
on my feeble constitution was almost too
great for me to bear. I got more nervous
than ever, and could not be left alone in the
house. sThe shaking of a window or the
creaking of a door sent a thrill of terror
through me, and the next sensation
that I usually experienced was giddiness,
as though things Were moving about in the
room. And you would hardly credit how I
felt if I ate any food, although I should say
‘drank’ instead of ‘ate,’ because I was
only allowed the lightest of diet, and it
was invariably liquid. All the same, my
stomach could not digest it, and the Yvay 1
used to swell out with wind was something
awful, my chest also being troublesome
with a feeling as if a weight was inside me.
My skin was as yellow as a guinea, owing
to my liver being diseased, the doctors said,
and my face was so thin and disfigured that
many of my friends did not know me.
Having previously been very stout, they
could not realise it was me when they saw
nothing but a shadow before them, and the
ominous shakes of their heads made me feel
very downhearted. It was evident they
thought I was dying, and some of them
have since told me they felt sure I could not
“You mentioned something about doctors
just now What did they say about your
prospects ? ”
« For a long time they tried to cheer me
by uttering kind and encouraging words,
but they did not do me any practical gooa
with their medicines, so then I submitted
myself for treatment at several hospitals.
The physic prescribed at those institutions
took no effect, so I sank down to the lowest
depths of despair, because I thought my
fate was sealed. Later on I thought 1
would make a final effort, and I sent for one
of the doctors who had been attending me
before, but he said that he could not do
any more for me than what he had
previously done, excepting to advise me to
take a course of Clements Tonic. He said
it was au excellent medicine, and soon after-
wards he good-naturedly made me a present
of two bottles.” t
“ How did you feel then, Mrs. Josephs ?
“I felt as if my whole life depended
upon Clements Tonic, and in doing so I am
sure I did not exaggerate the seriousness
of the situation, as every other treatment
had failed. When those two bottles of
Clements Tonic were finished there was
more life in me than there had been tor
twelve months. I could then take a little
food and enjoy it. Before taking Clements
Tonic everything I tasted was as it i baa
put a penny in my mouth, which left a
coppery flavor behind ; but that unpleasant-
ness was soon remedied, and, besides, the
coating over my tongue was cleared away.
Constipation had troubled me, but Clements
Tonic soon remedied that, and all the time
I was getting more light-hearted than ever,
because my pains were decreasing. 1 hese
improvements gave me a renewal of hope,
and, as was prudent, I clung tenaciously to
Clements Tonic. The next thing to cheer
my drooping spirits was to observe the
swellings in my head and limbs were being
reduced, and the pains were much less
severe than they had been. It was a very
unusual thing for me to wake up in the
night, but if I did I soon went to sleep
again, and rested peacefully till morning ;
and another great benefit that I derived
from the use of Clements Tonic was that
my nerves were toned to their normal con-
dition. Those of my friends who had daily
expected to hear of my death could haidly
realise the fact that I was being earned
further away from the grave every day by
Clements Tonic, and although four years
have passed since then, yet we often have a
chat about the narrow escape i had, and
Clements Tonic is the household remedy of
us all. I was trying to tell you how 1
progressed. Well, in a week or two more 1
was able to eat solid food without the least
compunction, as my digestive orgaus weie
as healthy as they could be, for there was
no flatulence or chest pains to inconvenience
me, and there was not an ache in any part
of my system. When my strength and
health were completely restored I devoutly
thanked God for my happy release, and as
there is no doubt that Clements Tonic saved
my life you are at liberty to publish my
story in any way that the public may hear
of it.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, ASMS Josephs, of 18 Wood’s-lane Woolloo-
niooloo, in the State of New South Wales, Com-
monwealth cf Australia, do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that 1 have carefully read
tho annexed document, consisting of four 10110 s,
and consecutively numbered from one , tO , s *•?'?*!
and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Cleipents Tgtig :
and also contains my full permission to P»hu B h :
any way my statements-which I give voluntary,
without receiving any payment; and
this solemn declaration conscientiously believin B _ the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the
Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at .!?!!!
nineteenth day of February, one thousand nine
hundred and two, before me,
EDWARD W. BUTLER, J.P.
Price 6s.
“»» fllltt SEltllTiON. 1 ’
BY
Si
THEBUSH WORKER
FOR
am
-Gu/c
. snnTHINC BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
A CERTAIN CURE for Cuts Burns Boils Barcoo
Eczema, JS2 BSuST .fi!
From aU C “.mi.”!?• P« Tin. A FREE SAMPLE rill
b ZAM°. U BuTcO., 39 Pi« Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
TO fiNXBOURNIC VISITORS!,
WIM ROLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
C( They come as a boon and a blessing 1 to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. “W 3
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHA/I.
the most nutritious.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
|sg“See my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M R.c.s.. Eng.
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food It does its work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter
looks on, the drunkard is reclaimed, even against his will
and without his knowledge or co-operation Send name
and address to THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free.
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pain,
Throw away
your Truw.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M ,R.C S., ENG.,
Con Russell & Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
I'll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
Tm Heexut,
CRAIG
House,
&. AITKEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites,
CALVERTS
20 per cent.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soap for toilet purposes.
Most useful to prevent or cure insect bites
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng,
* >
*
wiihg
/
*
(P V
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head-aches& all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“Ab a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache.
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac.
Of all Stores.
Hidden Ms of
WORDS
OF
WISDOM
This “ GRAND
BOOK” which is
sent Absolutely
FREE.
“Words of Wisdom/ ft
wonderful book written
for the sole purpose of re-
vealing to sufferers the
wonderful system of Horn-
ceopathic treatment which
has cured so many cases
that were thought to be
hopeless and incurable.
The book is written in a
plain and concise manner,
telling you exactly how
and where you can re B all J
perfect health. In fact, it
gives you the key to the
grandest knowledge known
It reveals wonderful se-
crets and makes the impossibilities of * e ?^ 3 J rme °ci
day. No matter what your disease or how many ha M ig| AG E
it hopeless or incurable, you wdl indeed todit A E ® nl
OF HOPE to you, for if you follow its dictates yo ‘ u
thousands of others have, he entireycuredofyour ailm n
Remember this book costs you absolutely nothing and T
prize it highly. Simply sit down, write your name and a
aend it to the
IRVING HOMCEOPATHIC COY.,
c/r Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
also stating your ailments, and theywillsendtlieiropinion au t
advice as well as this grand book without cost.
30 Days’ Trial.
«
We grant every purchaser
of our
electrio
KELTS and
AEELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which b f uuy
explained in our ELky
TUIC ERA." Our Electric
Beits will cure all .NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
in' current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give »
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
If it does not, we «’»
will permanently cure you. .. ..
promptly return the full amount paid. « e mean e
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.-Before purchasing, we prefer that you *
for our Electric Era and Price List (P oB ‘*«i ) V,fer|g
illustrations of different appliances tor BOTH
also Testimony which will convince the most s 1
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
ALL CHEMISTS
£
FOR
Anaemia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
3/6 PER box'
\ AT


SPECIALISE in but one direction, i.e.,
EQUIPMENT OF OFFICES
on an UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM
No Business can
succeed without
METHOD.
This METHOD
we supply.
WABASH
EXPANSION
Business
Systems.
Letter Files.
Document Files
Card Index
Systems
For all
Businesses.
Write for
Catalogue.
the
p&i
i-ULtSSfet.
l-cL. I .'j. t>* *ii ( IV. tAi*
fed
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australasia.
CAN YOU DRAW
Mechanical Figure LiKe This?
If you have a “knack” for it, cultivate It.
We teach by correspondence
Mechanical Drawing,
Steam and Electrical
Engineering, Heating,
Ventilating, Plumbing.
Mechanical Draw-
ing is of special
value to Engineers
and Engineering
Students, Archi-
tects, Workers in
Wood and Metal
. and Foremen of
I Factories,
i Write for infor-
mation add Cata-
> logue “ B."
American Sciioox, of Correspondence at Armour
Institute of Technology. Sydney: Box 629, 0.p.0.
HYPNOTISM, Magnetie Healing, &c.
m
Learn to Hypnotize I
Wonderful, Mysterious, Fas
cinating I I teach you how
to become a Hypnotist so
that you can exert a strang]
and magic influence over
others. Celebrated instau'
taneous method, discovered
and taught only by me.
Easily and quickly learned.
You can perform astouish-
ing feats and produce fun
by the hour. Surprise all
your friends and make your*
self famous. You can give
entertainments and make
money. Gratifies eveiyam*
bition, compels others to
love and obey you, and
brings health, happiness,
and success in life. Cures
diseases and bad habits.
Send two stamps for my big
FREE BOOK, which treats
on all the wonders, secrets,
and mysteries of the art,
and shows you just how to
become a Hypnotist.
ADDRESS—
Prof. R. H. Barra.den, 89 Pitt Street, BYDNEY.
MEN
II
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. read,
165 Collins street, Melbourne.
If.
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
VEGETABLE
Charcoal
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breatb, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, Ac. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all Impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards oil all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ‘ J.L.8., in monogram,' on the wrapper.
MEDICAL GALVANISM.
“ IVTESSRS. HALE AND SON’S FIRM has distinguished
■i-VL it se if in the development of ELECTRICAL
SCIENCE as a MEDICAL AGENT. By an entirely NEW
METHOD of application they have succeeded in produc-
ing- an ELECTRIC BODY BELT, which for COMFORT,
EFFICACY and GENUINENESS is unquestionably far
superior to any previous invention. Yet the whole appli
ance is so compact that it only weighs a few ounces. In
this age of shams it is something to get an article that
has some power apart from imagination. Medical
Monthly.
HALE’S IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELTS have con-
quered the most OBSTINATE cases of NERVOUS and
other DISEASES after all other remedies have FAILED.
OUR SPECIAL ELECTRIC BELT WITH SUSPENSOR
FOR GENTLEMEN HAS NO EQUAL. Catalogue and
Price List gratis. CONSULTATION FREE.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 CASTLEREACH-STREET, SYDNEY.
OF INTEREST to MEN
TvEAR SIR,—I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURSI,
Pitt street, Sydney.
Identic*
this
P»l>c*r.
WeaK.
Men WOMEN
Can obtain strength and vigor
by the use of DR. PIERCE S
ELECTRIC BELT." A Won-
derful Restorative. The most
Scientific Electrical Appliance
ever made. Drugs do not cure.
This Belt does. Send stamp (any sort)
tor “Booklet No. 2.” Write to-day:
Pierce Electric Co., 206 Post St.
San *r-nUaco,U.S.A., W. H. Soul & Co. Agis. Sydney
SAVE YOUR HAIR
With Shampoos of Cuticura Soap
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling? hair,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toilet, as well as by millions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, audmany sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to Instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
Irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix,Paris. Potter Drug
And Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid CrTiCDKA Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 <loses. Cuticuka Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, digestive, and the purest, sweetest, most successful and
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives.
I'm
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength f ° c r ai ?" £ ho
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, \Vrite at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seels tlio Truth, it coats HVTothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne.
home cyclopedia
RMBRACINO
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromo3. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, In plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but;about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
IS ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Lo' k and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
L ;,ry Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Vust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., ls.6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. _ General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman,’'and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Jts Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6cL
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue- post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures, 4s. 6d. large bottlej
Posted to any State, ss.
J. w. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing:.
USES
Insecticide
Kills
• u **
ALE,
J
5=
INSECTS
of
AXIOMS/
ftevy/m
A
Ask
USES
fOI%
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
PILLS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout <& Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd, and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
EMITS INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORIMAULT & Co., Paris, Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use oi
QS RX CORO’s
C.sSfct* cE °? f fc-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne J Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Ccnnell St., Sydney.
£HQ
DEAF
The New Patent
I SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
address -A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


EENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDT
Hennessy’s
Old Battle Axe
Brand
is
Known
and
Appreciated
all the
World
Over.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
‘PLUM’
ENTLEXIEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
'T like a hell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and. having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LICHTNINC RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Casa, tl>.
Price nK | e Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful ease, 3 JJ.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages ; price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Botble are universally acknowledged
*l*o DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Bed Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &a
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
* <
9JG'
'j/j.
\ Ir'l
■>n
mu
w
# ..
■'3
•3
flake
4
MS
Hi
1
i
In every section of the civilised world may be found agents
for Ruberoid, which is unequalled as an economical roofing.
'3
t
AGENTS-
Brooks, Robinson & Co. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Vic.
A. W. Sandford & Co.,
Adelaide, S.A.
J. M. Ferguson Ltd.,
Fremantle, W.A.
James W. Jack,
Wellington, N.Z.
Hedlky Button,
Launceston, Tas.
'1
LIMITED.
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
nr*
§!
■I
VI
EUBEEOID


The Bulletin
Registered afc the General Post) Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
You. 24.—N0. 1203.
SATURDAY. MARCH 7, 1903.
Paio* to
THE BURDEN OF EMPIAH.
OFFICIOUS PERSON IN THE BACKGROUND: “LOOK HERE, YOU YOUNG LOAFERS, WHY DON’T YOU HELP THE OLD PARTY TO CARRY HIS SWAG? LEAST
WAYS YOU CAN GET DOWN AND WALK, CAN’T YOU?”
CHOURUS OF SMALL BOYS : “WE WOULDN’T BE LET HELP WITH THE BURDEN ON OUR TERMS; AND, AS FOR WALKING. YOU PEE WE CAN’T GET DOWN ON
ACCOUNT OF THESE HERE STLKEN BONDS. WERE PART OF THE BURDEN; THAT’S WHERE IT IS.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
‘'Australia for the Australians.
Printed and Published by William Macleod. of
Botanv-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin*
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of tne Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. “ ales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WBEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER. 1901
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... A %
Half-yearly ... - ~ K. '£ b n
Quarterly O 7 U
NOTICE.
By tending direct to Thb Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Thb Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed'to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J r.
Archibald.
Special Notice. ,
The contents of this paper are copyright, by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor ioill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the ** Correspondence" column all contry
buttons submitted, whether tn the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or. say, $OOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desirethose sending MS. to distinctly understand, that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Ksaek and I Vhite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or uxtsh, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon ami Crotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, 3$ flout St., Caiwtown ; Solomon ami
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia. %
Ceylon .—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.- Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hoso Kong.— Bretcer amt Co., 9$ Queens Road, Hong
Kono.
Chin a.— Breioer and Co., S 1 Wanking Road, Shanghai.
SATURDAY, MARCH 7, 1903.
Notice to Quit.
London, Tuesday.—Addressing 7 the members of the
Capetown Chamber of Commerce on Saturday, Mr.
Chamberlain impressively declared that the autonomous
colonies must see the necessity for realising their position.
He declared that the burden of the Empire was becoming
greater than the Motherland could bear alone, and as the
colonies grew in influence and wealth they must either
abandon the idea of forming part of the Empire or take
their full share in its responsibilities.— Cablegram.
Australia has received notice to quit. It
is not, so far, a definite notice, but Joseph
Chamberlain gives this country and the
other self-governing sections of Greater
Britain warning that, unless certain con-
ditions are fulfilled, they must gather up
their joint and several carpet bag and leave
the Empire. The fact that the notice was
given at Capetown tends to show that Joseph
is sorrowfully lacking in a sense of humor—
but then nobody suspected the man of the
orchid in the turned coat of any great sense
of humor. A large section probably
a majority—of the people of Cape Colony
recently manifested a desire to adopt
the policy that Joseph of Birmingham
so vigorously recommends. They tried to
abandon the idea of forming part of the
empire, aud to join their brethren in creating
an Afrikander republic. Some of them were
hanged for it, and some were shot, and some
were imprisoned, and many were disfran-
chised, ilnd many had their property con-
fiscated, and all were denounced by the
raging Jingo as something worse than the
Father of Iniquity himself—all this for
attempting to do what Joseph Chamberlain
now tells them to do. Joseph Chamberlain,
in his new character, is a preacher of sedition,
secession, insurrection and treason, aud an
apostle of all the political doctrines which
were mostabhorred in the grand old Mafficking
days, when Sydney got drunk for joy aud
Melbourne upset tramcars for the glory of
England. This is a curious reversal of
things, and shows Joseph as an incon-
siderate, hasty aud loud-mouthed person
who rushes in where angels fear to tread.
• * • *
Certainly, if “ the colonies" choose to
remain part of the empire, aud have a chance
ro remain on fair conditions, they should
rhare i:s burdeus and responsibilities. But,
while they are giveu no choice iu the matter,
the question as to their position admits
«f a great deal of argument. If the Govern-
ment, of which Joseph Chamberlain is a
Jf-rge component part, will assure “ the
wuiouies ’ that they may deal seriously and
practically with the question of secession
which he has raised, and may do so without
anybody being executed or imprisoned for
it, and if, after considering the question,
they decide not to secede, then it will cer-
tainly be reasonable to ask them to look at
the defence problem in a new light. And
after that the real difficulty will only
begin. For, if Australia and Canada
are to he responsible, equally with Great
Britain (in proportion to their popu-
lation) for the defence of the empire, then
they must have a corresponding share in
deciding the policy of the empire. England
must climb down to some extent (to a
great extent, indeed) from its haughty posi-
tion as the “predominant partner.” It
must share the Government of the Empire
with “ the colonies.” It must reckon on a
possible combination of Cape Dutch, French
Canadian, Australian and Irish legislators in
a new Imperial Parliament making England
some day a mere side issue, and outvoting
its politicians, and upsetting its traditions.
The Crown must either give up its veto on
“ colonial ” legislation, or else the Crown’s
lost and obsolete veto on British legislation
must be restored to make things even. The
high and dignified offices of the army, navy,
and diplomatic service must be shared with
“ mere colonials,” and the lofty, blastiferous
British military person who now boycotts
“colonial” officers out of the army
must learn that there are other
pebbles besides himself on the beach.
The British Cobdenite must prepare for
the possibility of having his blessed Free-
trade gospel upset by the votes of “ colonial ”
legislators added to those of the growing
Protectionist party in the United Kingdom.
He must even be satisfied to contemplate the
possibility of the seat of Empire being re-
moved from London altogether when some
of “ the colonies ” grow to such dimensions
as to over-shadow England in point of
population. He may see his Irish coercion
devices reversed, and his Japanese alliance
knocked endways, and his House of Lords
treated with contumely. The English
Imperial Federationist only contemplates a
state of things in w'hich “ the colonies ” will
supply men and money to back up his
traditional policy of opposing Russia, prop-
ping up the Sultan, and extending the
already bloated Empire all over Asia and
Africa. But he must also contemplate a
state of things in which the “ colonial ” vote
might turn the scale and decide that the
Empire’s nigger possessions had better be
abandoned, and that Russia can have
Constantinople any day so far as the British
Empire is concerned.
• • • •
To the average Englishman all this would
be a horrid and impossible dream. His
idea, in a general way, is that he will
make war or peace, according to the interests
of England, will decide upon alliances, will
direct the whole Imperial policy as afore-
time, and that the other sections of the
Empire will humbly supply their contin-
gents and pay their share of the bill. The
fact that the existing unsatisfactory position
arises mostly from his own fixed resolve to
run the whole show hasn’t yet dawned upon
him. He utterly fails to realise that the
principal reason why Imperial Federation is
impossible is that England really wants to
federate by itself. At present Britain has to
carry the principal burden of the Empire’s
wars because they are solely Britain’s wars.
It has to pay the bulk of the Empire’s mili-
tary and naval charges because it insists on
being sole owner and director of the army
and navy. If it is willing to face the possi-
bility of an Australian admiral heiug iq
charge of the navy, or a French-Canadian
acting as Commander-in-Chief of the army,
or a Cape Dutchman being Governor-
General of India, or a Tasmanian holding
the Imperial Premiership, then all things
may be possible. Scotland aud Ireland
share the burden of the hill with England,
and a Scotchman has several times been
Premier of the United Kingdom, and an
Irishman has been the greatest Commander-
in-Chief the Empire ever possessed. Canada,
South Africa, and Australasia can all com-
pare with either Scotland or Ireland in popu-
lation. If they are to share the burden aud
the bill, the Australian Imperial Premier,
or the Canadian Commander-in-Chief, or
even a possible accidental predominance of
“ the colonies ” in the Imperial Cabinet,
must all he admitted as possibilities.
• * * •
If this question of sharing the bill, and
(consequently) sharing the control and the
responsibility, is to be taken seriously, there
must be a really Imperial Parliament which
will be legislative over-lord of the Empire.
“The colonies” must have a voice, accord-
ing to their population, in deciding how
that Parliament is to be constituted, e\ efi if
Britain’s sacred House of Peers goes under
in the scrimmage. There must be an end
of the theory that the Briton who happened
to remain in England is of superior clay to
the Briton who didn’t happen to remain in
England, aud the former Briton must climb
down to the common level. The mere
“ colonist,” in addition to bearing a part of
the bill and bloodshed of empire, would theu
have a voice iu deciding whether a good deal
of the empire is worth the cost and the
bloodshed involved in its retention. And
other new questions will arise. Every
State has, admittedly, a right to call on all its
citizens for defence purposes in time of need,
and to tax all property within its borders to
provide the means of defence. In Australia a
very large proportion of the property belongs
to absentees, mostly resident in England,
anu a very considerable proportion ot Aus-
tralia’s contribution would naturally fall on
them. A very large proportion of the Em-
pire's naval expenditure is incurred to pro-
tect shipping interests, which are almost
wholly British, and “the colonies,” under
the new regime, would have a considerable
voice in deciding how far this shipping was
worth such costly protection, and how far
the Empire, as a whole, should contribute to
the protection of a mercantile marine, which
doesn’t belong to the Empire as a whole.
The “ colonies ” would want a share in the
profitable swindles attached to army and
navy contracts. They would have an idea
that the profits of naval shipbuilding
should not he wholly confined to
the United Kingdom. They would cer-
tainly propose a division of the pro-
fits of the great silver coinage swindle.
Their votes in the Imperial Parliament might
even turn the scale in favor of a decision not
to steal the next great foreign goldfield that
may be discovered, on the ground that it
wasn’t worth their while to pay, perhaps,
£40,000,000 as their share in the cost of
ejecting the previous owner, seeing that the
Jew of London has always such an infernal
knack of getting ahead of them in the
division of the plunder.
• * * *
So far Australia has cost Britain prac-
tically nothing for defence. It has involved
Britain in no war and has brought it no fresh
enemies. It has helped Britain materially in
one war with which Australia had no concern.
It has provided convenient headquarters for
the fleet that is employed to protect
British shipping in these parts and to
spread the terror of the British flag through
Polynesia. It has paid something towards
the maintenance of this fleet. It has
supplied Britain with about £30,000 a year
of the profits arising from the silver coinage
fraud. And it has received notice from
Joseph Chamberlain to quit the Empire
unless things are placed on a more definite
footing. It remains for Joseph Chamber-
lain to explain—which he hasn’t done yet—
how things should be put on a more definite
footing. Even Joseph of Birmingham would
scarcely be so arrogant a fool as to suggest
seriously that Australia and Canada should
accept the responsibilities of Empire with
none of its powers or dignities. It is his
business, as the person who is moving in the
matter, to formulate a scheme for the fair
division of these powers and dignities. And
that can’t be done without England giving
up all idea of running the Imperial show as
it has done in the Parliament of the mere
three kingdoms. It must consent to be a
factor of diminishing importance, with the
chance of one day being a factor of very
greatly diminished importance. If it isn’t
prepared to face that position, then what is
Joseph of Birmingham driving at ?
The Empty Cradle.
That strenuous man President Roosevelt, of the
United States, has been speaking severely to the
sons and daughters of Uncle Sam about the
declining birth-rate of their mutual country. The
subject is a familiar one in Australia, and in many
other countries as well, but owing to certain side
issues, of which the nigger is the chief, the United
States has got the trouble in a specially bad form.
Between the census year IS9O and the census year
1900 the colored population of the States showed
a greater percentage of increase than the white,
and this despite the fact that the white population
was reinforced by over 5,000,000 immigrants
while the black had to depend almost wholly
on its natural increase. If there had been
neither white nor black immigration the increase
of Ham would have loomed up so enormously
by comparison with the very slow progress or the
practically stationary 7 attitude of Japhet, that the
possibility of the United States becoming a Black
Republic would have begun to look a very serious
possibility indeed. And though there is still a
respectable increase in the white population of the
States by excess of births over deaths, it is mostly
owing to the large families of the newly-imported
immigrants. There is a suspicion that the old
American race—the descendants of the origi-
nal Dutch, Swedish, British, French and Spanish
settlers—the people with a long antiquity of three
centuries to look back upon—are actually dying
out. There was hardly time to develop a real
American type before, according to present
estimates, it began to pass away. Anvhow, the
nigger element represented a little less than 11 per
cent, of the community in 1890, and a good deal
over 12 per cent, in 1900. And it was only the
rush of white immigrants which prevented H am
being a good deal over 13 per cent, of the com-
munity in 1900.
• • • •
Immigration, too, is not what it was. In 1890
much more thau half the immigrants who entered
the United States came from Britain, Germany,
and Scandinavia —the best kind of immigrants
that the world can show. In 1900 two-thirds of
them were Italian, Sclavonic and Magyar—a
sturdy enough race, it is true, yet the people of
almost the poorest aud most ignorant regions of
Europe. Considering the increasing sterility of
the old elements of the population—the descend-
ants of the original British, Dutch, Swedish and
Spanish pioneers; the fact that the immigrants
of to-day are mostly Sclavs, Magyars aud Italians,
and that the natural increase of the white popula-
tion is, to a very large extent, an increase of Sclavs,
Magyars and Italians; and further taking into
account the remarkable growth of the colored
races—summing up all these things President
Roosevelt wants to know if the nigger and the
Dago are to tight out the destiny of the Republic
between them, and if the armies of Cesar and
Sambo are to meet at the new Battle of the Wil-
derness to decide the ownership of the land.
There is some satisfaction in staking a copper or
two on Cesar as against Sambo, but even that
doesn’t alter the fact that the outlook is a serious
one.
• • • •
All over the world the Cesar aud Sambo
problem—the problem which has its basis in the
tendency of the poor and ignorant races to increase
faster than the cultured and affluent—faces the
community. It isn't, after all, so very difficult to
explain why the increase is so v ery one-sided.
To the toil-hardened female who follows the
plough, child-bearing is probably, less painful and
dangerous than to her sister who has been
lapped in comparative luxury ; at all events
she heeds the pain and the danger less. The
woman of luxury regards the child-bearing period
as one of trouble and deprivation, because it cuts
her off from all manner of social enjoyments ; the
other woman has few social enjoyments from
which she can be cut off. The poor and ignorant
woman knows little or nothing of the disastrous
use of preventives. She marries younger, as a
rule, partly because marriage is the most acces-
sible dissipation in the lives of the poor; partly
because it isn’t worth her while, or her prospective
husband’s while, to postpone marriage, as many of
the more affluent classes do, till a certain amount
of wealth has been accumulated, for neither of them
has any real hope of ever accumulating anything.
Religion (or superstition) has a greater hold on the
ignorant, just because they are ignorant, and the
doctrine of increase and multiplication is a strong
element of almost every religion. The well-to-do
limit their families so that there may be sufficient
wealth to divide among them ; it doesn’t matter
to the poor, who have nothing practically to divide,
whether nothing is divided among three or among
ten. Moreover, among the very poor, children
become wage-earners and assets at a very early
age. Also the poor do not look far forward,
simply because their hand-to-mouth existence
destroys the habit of foresight. _ It is no use taking
heed for the morrow if it is impossible to make
provision for the morrow.
m • • •
So long as poverty is not actual starvation
which kills off the rising generation wholesale,
and ignorance is not utter lawlessness and barbar-
ism which reduces the population by constant
strife and slaughter, even the heavy death-rate
that prevails in the insanitary dwellings of the
poor doesn’t press so closely on the birth-rate as
does, in most cases, the smaller death-rate among
the more affluent classes. The future of the earth
seems to lie with the poor and ignorant—or with
the ignorant even when they are not strikingly
poor. Whenever a race grows affluent and cul-
tured and comparatively luxurious, its fertility,
apparently, tends to diminish. How far the pro-
cess may go we can’t say, for this grim world has
seen so very little of general affluence as yet. But
we know that the greatest increase of population
in Europe is in Russia; in Canada it is the in-
crease of the French Canadian; in the United
States it is that of the negro and the Italian,
Sclavonic and Hungarian immigrants; in South
Africa it is that of the Boers —or at least it was in
the Boer’s more ignorant and patriarchal days.
• • • •
There would be no special reason to trouble
about the slow growth of the more civilised
populations if it were not for the indecent haste
of some less civilised populations to grow up and
overshadow the globe. The day must needs come
when the earth can comfortably hold no more.
Then the more educated races, who fancy they
can make a better use of the earth than others,
may possibly decide on the painless extirpation of
certain more backward branches of the human
family, either by some vast scientific process of
preventing their reproduction, or by some more
sudden and off-hand method. It may be decided,
for instance, that the Chinese are superfluous, and
that China is wanted for other purposes ; and the
Congress of Highly Civilised Nations, going care-
fully 7 through the list of races in a congress at the
Hague, may order the clerk of the tribunal to put a
tick against the name of China as one of the com-
munities which is to go. Or, again, when the crush
becomes unpleasantly dense, the Congress of Less
Civilised Nations may do the ticking-off process.
The increase of population constantly hastens the
coming of that possible trouble; yet if the highly
civilised nations delay the calamity by ceasing to
increase they are all the more likely to be among
those ticked off in the day of trouble and in the
hour of consideration. In any case there is a dis-
coursing element about the idea that as soon as
Civilisation has painfully hauled a race on to
the top rung of the ladder it should begin to
wither, and that the hauling process must start
afresh that the future should always lie
with the unlettered individual at the tail
of the procession, and that no sooner is he
caught aud washed and cultivated than a fresh
semi-barbarian should begin to loom up at the
tail in his stead. Anyhow, to return to the origi-
nal subject of discussion, the trouble of the
United States is a solemn lesson on the evils of
admitting colored immigration. If the Teutonic
element in the States falls behind, and the front
place is taken by the Latin or the Sclav, there is
no irreparable harm done. The Latin and the
Sclav are white men, with all the white mans
possibilities, and an Italianised or Russianisen
republic might be as great an influence for good
in the end as a Teutonic one. But a republic in
which the negro element predominated wo«”c'. oe
hopeless, and the multiplication of Sambo is the
one American question to which there seems to
be no answer—at least no answer that could be
published in detail except in a purely scientific
work.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Seal Asset.
Attorney-General Wise, of N.S.W., is reassur-
ing the British money-lender altogether too much.
For a long, long time the uneasy Bcll-Cohen
has had it explained to him with great persistence
that the assets which made his bill quite safe on
the day of payment were our somewhat worn and
not too productive railways, our telegraphs, roads,
sewers, bridges, our dredged rivers and old mili-
tary stores, our thinned forests and shifted sand,
and all manner of other things which Buix-CoHKN
couldn’t seize in case Australia defaulted, and
which wouldn’t pay for removal if they "' en j
seized. And Bcll-Cohen has of late looked
upon these things and remained unconvinced.
Now Attorney-General Wise has addressed him-
self to our creditors in a different streak ot
eloquence, and informed them that “ the real asset
of Australia is Parliament’s power of taxation,
and Bill-Cohex inspects this new security
also with a long nose and a suspicious
eye and refuses to be comforted. Attorney-
General Wise evidently felt that he was strug-
gling with a woefully tough ease when he offered
that final explanation. Parliament, for taxation
purposes, means the Assembly, and the Assembly
in N.S.W. means the people. Therefore, the F®*-
liament’s power to tax the people is simply tn
people’s power to tax themselves —in other words,
their power to pay up if they feel inclined, and 1
they have the money. That is the new security
which Attorney-General Wise offers to the ex-
traneous creditor. It is a very ordinary secuntyj
every country and every individual offers tne
same; it was exactlv the same security tna
Whitaker Wright and B. Fixe and Lbk*?*
Tkkah HooLKYgave to their creditors, aud m
each one of these cases the creditors fell in heavily
Be u. Cohen, very sensibly, remarks tnat to
guarantee is good enough if, when the real pine


°°mea, AustnUia has the money and is willing to
part with it. But he sees that Mr. Wise’s State
would rather charge about £900,000 a year of its
ordinary, unproductive, everyday expenses to
loans than pay taxes or practise economy. He
sees that it would rather have about £200,000 a
year deficit than pay taxes or practise economy.
He also sees that it would rather borrow the trust
funds, and cover its deficit by the issue of Treasury
bills, and do almost anything under the sun than
pay taxes or practise economy. And when he is
assured that his real security lies in the fact
that the people can tax themselves sufficiently
to meet all claims (provided they feel like
doing so and have the money) he naturally
asks when the feeling is likely to manifest itself,
and whether it hasn t become so rusted with dis-
use as to be practically worthless. Also, he pro-
bably remarks that there was exactly the same
security behind Mr. Micawbkr’s IO U. Under
a despotic Government the power of taxation does
amount to something ; you have only to persuade
the despot, and he can hang the people up by the
feet till they pay, if they have anything to pay
with. But when it is a case of the people hanging
themselves up by the feet till they pay it isn’t
exactly the same thing. The question is just
this : If the supply of loan money ceases, N.S.W.,
to take one State as an example, will have either
to make great economies and vastly curtail its
publio works policy as well, or to pay about twice
as much in taxes as it does now, if it is to keep
faith with its creditors. And Bull-Cohen is ask-
ing himself whether people who have been accus-
tomed to so vastly luxurious a form of Government
will, should the trouble come, think the honor of
keeping faith with their creditors worth the
struggle. He isn’t asking the question offensively,
so far as we know, but he is asking it.
+
“ The Bulletin ” Votes for Bewis.
The Lewis Ministry goe3 before the free and
enlightened Tasmanian publio next month for re-
election or rejection. Its position is a curious
one. It is opposed by a small, but vigorous
knot of democrats for its lack of progres-
sive tendencies, though _it has shown a certain
number of good intentions—quite an unusual
number for Tasmania. It is opposed by a very
large and slothful and retrogressive and flabby
mass of conservatism because it has some ideas
that are too progressive for Tasmania—mainly
because it laid the hand of sacrilege on the Holy
Ark of Fat by passing an Income Tax law
to make good the loss of revenue arising
through the abolition of inter-State customs,
instead of adopting an unflinching policy
of sweating and highway robbery, or else borrow-
ing more money. If these two sets of opponents
succeed in ousting Lewis, then it must be decided
whether that section of the Opposition which is
better than Lewis, or the one that is a darned lot
worse than Lewis, will inherit the fallen poli.
tician’s billet. According to all present appear-
ances, the party that is a darned lot worse than
Lewis will get it, through sheer weight of
numbers. The Opposition consists of a very small
party of reformers, who want the Lewis income-
tax replaced by a graduated land-tax which will
break up the big estates that lie like a
nightmare on Tasmania; and a very large
party of Bloated Fat, which demands that
the income-tax shall be abolished as an
insult to people with a stake in the country,
but which would fall down dead with rage at the
idea of replacing it with anything—a graduated
land-tax suggestion would make this party fall
down dead twice. The great mass of the
Opposition has no declared policy except denun-
ciation of the man who income-taxed Tasmania
instead of sweating the Government employees on
a larger scale than before, or adding the shortage
to the public liabilities ; and the anti-income-tax
howl seems to constitute three-fourths of the
visible Opposition policy. Unfortunately, the
little democratic party in Tasmania, like that of
N.S.W., has never made the squaring of the
public finances a front item of its policy, as it
should have done. It ought to regard Lewis as
at least something of a democrat by reason
of his efforts to stop the financial drift—
but it doesn’t. It ought to urge him to further
efforts in the same direction —but it doesn’t, at
least, not to any great {extent. It ought to de-
nounce every man who proposes to abolish the
new taxation without being able to show exactly
and definitely and to the last penny how the gap
that would be thus created in the national finances
can be made good, as, in that respect at least, a
bloated and disgraceful Tory—but it doesn’t. The
Bulletin has received (and regretfully lighted its
pipe with) voluminous complaints from sundry
respected Tasmanian democrats on account of
its support (half-hearted as the support was)
of the Lewis Ministry. The point where it
differs from these remonstraters is that, in
its opinion, the first principle of democracy
is to square the finances and to check the
policy of drift, thriftlessness and big loans
that is making this country the abject bond-
slave of Bull-Cohen in London. Premier
Lewis has tried to do something in that way, and
promises to do more, and this paper respects him
—in moderation. If he had absolutely committed
himself to the total abolition of the borrowing
policy it would respect him without any modera-
tion at all, and would sooner pay his official salary
itself than see him out of office. He may be Tory
in many respects, but on what ought to be the first
principle of democracy he is at least, according to
all evidence, much more sound than the principal
section of his opponents. If he falls by reason of
the opposition to his income-tax policy it will be
a solemn warning to other politicians to let the
deficit slide. Therefore, The Bulletin votes for
Lewis. It is sorry that he isn’t a better man. It
is still more sorry that many of the other fellows
should be so much worse.
♦
His Honor’s Joke.
The grimmest of grim jokes was that perpetrated
by the grim Judge Boucaut on Osborne, found
guilty at Adelaide of coining, and of shooting the
arresting constable. The cases were taken separ-
ately, and for the shooting the sentence was 21
years and a whipping. “He had always held ”
(said His Honor ; Register report) “that only in
the extremest cases should a life sentence be accom-
panied by a whipping, as to imprison a man for life
and to whip him savored too much of severity He
was, therefore, not going to pass sentence of
imprisonment for life in the present instance, as
he felt it to be his bounden duty to whip the
prisoner.” Sentence of 21 years and 20 lashes
accordingly. Now, four days earlier Boucaut
himself had given this same Osborne a life
sentence on the coining charge, and when His
Honqr went out of his way to drag in his remark
aboui how he didn’t belie v. in combining
flogging and life imprisonment, his laboured
and ghastly joke was irrelevant as well as
premeditated. A judge who can sentence a
man to imprisonment for life, with 21 years
additional imprisonment and a flogging on top
that, isa practical humorist whoshouldn ttry to add
verbal humor to his other horrors and accomplish*
ments. Many a man has lost his opportunity in this
world through not laying to his book ; a good gaol-
nogger, for instance, may neglect hiB flogging
business through trying to be a bad poet, and
between the two he may become nothing at all.
In like manner, a Judge who has a great capacity
tor being horrible shouldn’t try to be funny also ;
between the two he may only contrive to be a
grotesque Aunt Sally in his declining years.
The Victorian Reform Position.
The position in Victoria with regard to constitu-
tional reform still lacks definiteness. Premier
IRVINE has certainly avoided the mistake of dis-
solving the Assembly and making a useless appeal
to the country, and he has restored the reform
clauses which the House of Landlords cut of his
liill, and firmly returned the measure to that blatant
body for further consideration. But he has not
yet stated in any definite manner what ha really
intends to do, in the probable event of the House
ot Landlords cutting out these clauses a second
time. Ihe arrogant Chamber of proud flesh is to
be given the opportunity of repentance ; and it is
just possible that, as with the Probate Bill,
it will decide to repent. At the worst it has, after
all, only the strength of inertia, the strength of
the fat and swollen dog which persists in
remaining in the manger mumbling its toothless
jaws, though its master threatens to kick, because
of a belief that in spite of threats he really won’t
kl .° k - There is always the chance that the dog
will lose its fat complacency and get a terrifying
idea into its head that the man may kick; and
then it would, of course, scramble out. But the
House of Landlords in Victoria has been threat-
ened with the boot so often, and has so often
found the threat a vain one, that the chances of
its taking a reasonable view of the present situa-
tion are rather remote And if it refuses to
budge, what then? Mr. Irvine promises to "take
all constitutional means possible to give clear
effect to the wishes of the country.” That is com-
prehensive enough, and if Irvine realy means it
Reform is as good as accomplished. Two strictly
constitutional” means ha vealready been suggested
by The Bulletin to settle the difficulty. One is to
bribe the Upper House into acquiescence. This
disreputable, but still “constitutional,” method
was adopted to secure the union of England and
Scotland, and to sweep away the old disreputable
legislature of alien oppressers which once called
itself an “Irish” Parliament at Dublin. So it
has precedents. Another constitutional means is
to “ tack on” to the next Appropriation Bill a
few clauses dipping away from the Council all its
powers of obstruction. As far back as the reign
of William of Orange, the British House of
Commons adopted this expedient in dealing with
the House of Lords; and the Lords promptly
caved in, rather than face the ordeal of riot and
revolution which an obstinate attitude on their
part would have ushered in. Does Mr. Irvine
propose that ? Until he explains exactly what he
means by “exhausting every possible con-
stitutional means ” to overcome the House of
Landlords it is impossible to express an opinion as
to his attitude. But if he does show such firmness
as to sweep the obstructing Council aside, The
Bulletin will be inclined to forgive him every-
thing, aye, even Bent.
The Swindled " Bobby.”
The Vio. police force is just now engaged in
quietly discussing its grievance against the Irvine
Government, which involves also a charge of foul
financial play against Governments past and gone.
Fifty years ago (1853), the Vic. police force, hav-
ing then severed all connection with the original
N.S.W. constabulary, started a superannuation-
fund—to be formed by an annual levy of 2 per
cent, upon the pay of all ranks, plus the fines for
misconduct and half of all the penalties recovered
by police action. At that time, the retiring age
for a j‘peeler” was fixed at 60 years, as in
N.S.W In 1870, Parliament appointed a Royal
Commission to inquire into police workings, and
the result of this long-winded inquiry was a new
Act, under which the Goverment took control of
the Superannuation Fund, and fixed the retiring
age at 55 instead of 60. It would seem that the
Fund, on becoming mixed-up with finances in
general, was considerably embezzled by the State,
as trustee, and because the retiring constables
had, so to speak, begun to outrun the pension
provision, another Act of Parliament raised the
superannuation levy to per cent, of salary
instead of 2 per cent. Then the middle-aged
policemen, with only 25 years of service in front
of them, and the young recruits who calculated
their chances of promotion on the 55 years limit
for their elders—they all thought they knew
exactly how they stood. In 1895, however, a new
regulation shifted the retiring age back to 60.
The Force did' not make any particular murmur
about this breach of faith. It put them
on the same terms of service as the police
in other States. They worked away con-
tentedly and ran in the drunk and the hoodlum
as usual. But in 1902 the Superannuation
Fund, owing to the depredations of bygone
Treasurers, was absurdly insufficient to meet
the demands upon it. Chief-Sec. Murray dis-
covered that the Fund’s present income and ex-
penditure was £45,000 a year, and Mr. Murray, as
the representative of a Govt, which is “pledged
to retrenchment” at anybody’s cost, coolly
manipulated an Order-in-Council whereby the
age of retirement for policemen was raised to 65,
an age when men of even specially selected
physique are no longer fit to grapple with an
able-bodied Sykes. By this simple breach
of contract the Chief-Sec. will save £4OOO a year
to the State, he calculates, and for the sake
of that poor but dishonest retrenchment he is
content to have every policeman in the land com-
plaining of bad treatment. Veterans of 60, who
should now be pensioned off, are sulking on their
beats. The juniors’ prospects of promotion have
faded five years further into the distance. The
force begins to wonder whether Parliament will
take a hint from the Psalmist, and fix the working
age limit at three score years and ten. Anything
is possible to a retrenchment policy. Another
Order-in-Council and a new Act may be sprung
upon these myrmidons of an unstable Law.
Meanwhile, they are preparing to bring their case
before Parliament. Their industrious solicitor,
Mr. T. Woolf, has collected a mass of evidence
which ought to make any very young members of
the House blush for the tricks of legislation.
Honest Mistakes.
The Bulletin notices, with pained surprise, that
certain persons in different States of the Common-
wealth have just been submitted to all the in-
dignities of police court prosecution—and in some
cases have been actually committed for trial to a
higher court —on charges of robbing the Post
Office. Yet it surely must be within the know-
ledge of the law officials of the Crown that the
Post Office is now a Federal department, and that
to rob a Federal department is a clear proof
of honesty. It has been established (by the
daily newspapers) that fraudulent forgeries
designed to swindle the oustoms are in-
variably “honest mistakes,” and are made the
subject of police-court prosecutions only because
of the intolerable tyranny of Mr. C. C. Kingston,
and hia deep-laid conspiracy to ruin Sydney and
Melbourne and Adelaide and Brisbane, and to
make this continent a desert without a single
oasis of a shady customs transaction. Frauds on
the Post Office are surely on the same plane. Pro-
secutions for honest mistakes as regards owner-
ship of letters and money-orders are, without a
doubt, proofs that Mr. Drake is unfortunately
fashioning his actions after the arbitrary and
reactionary example of Mr. Kingston. The
Chamber of Commerce should at once give its
attention to the matter. The proper method of
dealing with persons suspected of robbing the
Post Office is to ask them to call and talk over the
matter in a friendly fashion with the Minister,
and the Minister should “shout.”
Again, the Liverpool Tubercle Farm
A recent visit to the Liverpool (N.S.W.) Tubercle
Farm showed that its operations are being ex-
tended. There used to be an average of 100
sufferers undergoing destruction by the phthisis
bacillus ; there are now from 130 to 140. A new
“ ward ” has been opened, and, to accommodate
sufferers, it has been found necessary to locate
some of the cases in the general dormitories,
where indigent inmates not affected by the disease
sleep. So far as possible, the medical superin-
tendent, Dr. Beattie, takes precautions against
this (under the circumstances unavoidable) trans-
gression of an elementary rule of hospital practice,
infecting others ; the phthisis cases are put
among the oldest inmates, and the very old
don’t contract tubercular disease of the lungs.
Whether they are liable to be infected with
tubercular disease of the bowels is a
matter of opinion. In spite of the new
ward, _ and in spite of the location of many
cases in the general dormitories, the unhappy
consumptives are still the victims of overcrowd-
ing. The beds are set four deep in one ward and
between the beds are the dining tables at which
the patients feed. The air in a room housing 40
consumptives, packed so closely that if they were
all sound men there would be grave danger to
their health, is deadly. It cannot, under the best
of circumstances, in the most favorable of weather,
be less than noxious; in the hot summer it is
simply murderous. Of course, under the circum-
stances, the death rate (about 40 per cent, per
annum) is steadily maintained. The authorities
at Liverpool point to several patients who have
survived for a number of years after their ad-
mission to this so-called hospital, as proof that it is
not the death-hole it has been described. But most
of these “tough” cases are those of men who
have taken advantage of the times of improve-
ment which come to most consumptives—even in
such a place as this—to leave the institution for a
while : they have been only intermittently under
the deadly influence of the air in the Liverpool
wards. That influence kills surely enough in
from two to three years—the average death rate
proves that —though exceptional cases may survive
for a very much longer period. It must, in fair-
ness, be admitted that there is no fault to find
with the personal administration at the Liverpool
Tubercle Farm. The matron and the nurses (too
few of them in the day and none at night) do their
best; the medical superintendent, Dr. Beattie,
is an exceptionally kind-hearted man, and
treats the patients with what is, under the
conditions, the greatest possible skill and gener-
osity. It is the system that is at fault—
the crowding of 140 consumptives into the wards
of an old men’s asylum, in an utterly unsuitable
building,"without any park-grounds whatsoever,
by the side of an almost stagnant river, which for
some hours of the day pollutes the air with a
noisome stench—it is that which is murderous.
Liverpool gets, as a rule, “bad cases” (no con-
sumptive who can possibly avoid it goes there);
and among these patients, whatever their treat-
ment, there would be a high death-rate. But, in
view of the fact that an English sanitorium for
consumptives can record 80 per cent, of cases in
which the disease was arrested or cured, the
Liverpool figures are appalling—4o per cent, of
deaths per annum and no cures ! The Govern-
ment which permits this to continue is morally
indictable for the slaying of the unfortunates who
cough out their lives in the Liverpool wards; a
lethal chamber for poor phthisis oases would be
really less cold-blooded.
»
A Civil Service Clerk.
A regent action against the Victorian Railways
Department by an ex-chief clerk goes to show that
the Government is—or at least was—a much more
desirable employer than a bank or an insurance
company as far as clerical workers are concerned.
Plaintiff entered the department a 3 shorthand
writer at the end of 1881. In ’B4 he was promoted,
and in ’93 he became chief clerk at a salary of
£5OO a year. In ’96 the new Chief Commissioner
(Mathieson) “appeared to be dissatisfied with
him,” and changed his billet. The employee
evidently didn't please boss Mathieson. His
application for three months’ leave of absence was
refused. He again applied for leave, on the
ground of ill-health. Finally, in July, ’97 —•
after less than 16 years of service on the
railways—he got a few weeks leave of absence
and then, as he refused to retire, the department
ceased paying his salary into the bank. An
emissary from the Commissioner advised him to
retire, in which case he might have been pen-
sioned. Instead of coming to a final settlement
with Mathieson in ’97, the invalid stuck to his
alleged “rights” and after an absence of 20
months proposed to resume work as before. Then
the department told him to consider himself dis-
charged from the Ist January, ’9B, on a gratuity
of £967. Plaintiff claims that he is still an em-
ployee of the Railways, “entitled to £5OO a
year salary, and to £1291 for arrears of salary;
or alternately that he is entitled to a super-
annuation allowance from the time when he
was induced, by stress of circumstances, to
accept the gratuity aforesaid.” An ordinary
city clerk, whose position depends upon the
approval of one boss, and who is bound to
lose his position if the business comes to grief, can’t
be expected to have any sympathy with a £5OO a
year clerk who refuses to be retired on a pension
by a disapproving boss. If the Civil Service
clerk is entitled to his “rights,” it is clear that
the private service clerk must be a deeply wronged
individual. Also the private employee is a man
to be pitied, in so farthat he runs the risk of pos-
sible poverty in his old age. No man gets his
“rights” in tins world unless his income is guaran-
teed to increase steadily until he is 60, and his
declining years are soothed by a liberal super-
annuation allowance.
The Whitewashing of Mr. M'Kenzie.
On the motion of Premier Irvine, the Victorian
Assembly has dismissed the troublesome M'Kenzie
scandal with a lame and non-committal device. It
accepted the report of the select committee,
which found MKenzie guilty of maladministra-
tion—and inflioted no punishment. The House
did not even put itself right with the country by
censuring M'Kenzie, or by dismissing from office
the Premier who had made himself constitution-
ally responsible for M‘Kenzie’B honesty. It has
been thus established as a working political prin-
ciple in Victoria that a Minister of the Crown
may use the great trust reposed in him to further
his own interests at the expense of the people, with-
out incurring any other risk on being found out
than[that of an interruption of his nefarious actions.
It is a vicious precedent to set up. Applying the
same system of ethics to other branches of wrong-
doing, it would have to be admitted that the bank-
robber and the pickpocket should not be interfered
with if, having been discovered at work and re-
monstrated with, they agreed to desist from the
enterprise in hand and handed in their resignations
as bank-robbers or pickpockets respectively.
Australia needs to be particularly careful in safe-
guarding political honesty. Without having, as
in England, the chance to drawits politicians from
a large class which is, by circumstances and by
training, not easily amenable to ordinary tempta-
tions of dishonesty, it “sweats” its public
men shamefully. The living to be gained
by a devotion to politics is a dis-
gustingly poor one; and the probabilities of
politicians adding to their rightful incomes by sur-
reptitious and dishonest means is accordingly
great. If, then, abuse of political trust is con-
doned when discovered, the ohances of corruption
must become disquietingly numerous. To have
made a stern example of squatter M‘Kenzie was
the obvious duty of the Victorian Parliament; but
the squatter and the landowner and the Kyabram
“reformer” who repudiated his liability for irri-
gation expenditure are the three great props of
the Ministry, and a prop must be spoken to gently
in these hard, scarce times. v .
Letter from a surprised Victorian pressman
Premier Irvins had a strange and unexpected lapse
into Liberalism when dealing with the amendments made
in the Constitution Reform Bill by the Legislative
Council. As the Bill was passed through the Assembly
it was an odd mixture of Toryism and Liberalism. It
cam* back from the Council with the Tory elements
strengthened, and absolutely devoid of every one of its
original Liberal provisions. If Irvinb had lived up to his
past history as a good Tory he would have meekly
accepted the dictation of the 48 Rich Landlords. All his
Tory friends expected him to do that. But he came
down with a bold, bad proposition to reject nearly every
one of the Council’s amendments. It caused the many
Tory gentlemen who have been sitting so solidly
behind him to shudder. Madden, M’Outciieon, Down-
ward, Joseph Harris, Swinburne, and others
huddled themselves into the Ministerial corner while
Irvine was speaking, and displayed the feelings
of a man having a large molar drawn. Irvine not
only moved for the rejection of the Council’s amend-
ments, but he made an irresistible attack upon that
Chamber. He charged it deliberately with treating the
mandate of the country with “ ignominy and contempt,"
and was even rude enough to say that it was a non-
representative body—that it did not even represent the
opinions of its own constituents. Madden M'Cutchbon
and co. could scarcely keep their seats when these dread-
ful remarks were made. They held their breath, expect-
ing every minute to see him struck dead. Nothing
happened, and it is a fair assumption that Madden,
M’Cutcheon and co. ended the night as atheists. If there
is one thing more than another calculated to make Tories
unbelievers, it is the fact that the fate of Ananias and
Sapphira is not instantly meted out to people
who talk disrespectfully of the Legislative Coun-
cil. Irvine’s shockingly irreverent language did not
stop there. He asserted that the Council was a delusion
and a sham, in as much as it was “incapable of perform-
ing the most useful and important duties entrusted to it
—those of revision and review.” When a man with a
glorious Tory past such as Irvine’s says things like these
about the House of RichLandlordshe ought to be believed.
Being so long on the inside running he certainly should
know, and throughout his speech Irvine gave one the
impression of knowing a good deal. Even then he was
not finished. He heaped derision on the 48 Landlords
for not having had the courage to get into the
open and protest against the Reform Bill outside
their own Chamber. Indeed, in this respect, he
hinted that they were a set of cowards. And,
last of all, Irvine actually sneered at the Council as the
“ bulwark of the Constitution and the liberties of the
people.” He twitted that Chamber with having passed
all those measures now on the statue-book which are said
to have caused the downfall of the State. Each of his
statements was proved in a cold-blooded fashion before
he proceeded to the next, and when he sat down Irvine
looked as good a Liberal as any man in the House. Can
it be that the Irvine has just entered upon the chrysalis
stage—that he has just shed the grubby covering of the
Tory and taken on the bright new form of the democrat.
If his present attitude towards the Council proves per-
manent, if he does not sneak back to his mouldy Tory
shape when the real fight begins, the present writer will
take back most of the hard things he has thought of
Irvinb and all the bad things he has written of him.
«.
A recent debate in the Melbourne Trades Hall
emphasises the necessity for securing Federal con-
trol of industrial legislation. It was alleged that
a big tobacco combine, now operating in Aus-
tralia, had transferred a great deal of its cigar-
making business to Adelaide, where it was pos-
sible to employ cheap girl labor. In Victoria the
operations of the Factories Act, in N.S.W. of the
Arbitration Act, made cheap labor production
impossible. So the work went to S.A. and the
product went free all over the Commonwealth.
Under such a system the States witli humane
industrial legislation are penalised and the benefits
of Protection abrogated. There must be Federal
labor legislation to enforce identical wage condi-
tions in all States.
«
Adelaide rag merchant, C. H. Goode, of the
cherubic countenance, the other day got very
angry about Kingston’s administration of the
Customs Department. At a farewell to another
rag merchant, David Murray, cherubic Goode
cried indignantly: “Under the present brutal
regime of an ex-South Australian, Mr. Murray
and myself have been pulled with drunks and
disorderlies to the police court and charged with
crimes of which we were not guilty. I hope there
will soon be a change, because it i 3 demoralising
to the country when respectable men are brought
up and charged along with drunks and dis-
orderlies.” This is a fearful outburst from a
mild-looking little man like Goode, who is boss
elder at the North Adelaide Baptist Church.
Goode might have been absolutely innocent
of the horrible crimes with which he was charged
by the brute Kingston, but judging from the
number of deliberate frauds which Kingston has
managed to sheet home on “highly respectable
traders ” all over the Commonwealth within the
last year or so, it would be unwise to take any
notice of the so-called respectability of any indi-
vidual, or of any firm of merchants or individuals.
It is no doubt a terrible thing to have the black-
coated, trim, respectable Baptist person hauled
up with drunks and disorderlies; but, after all,
drunks are often much smaller criminals than
importers.
“ Martha ” sends her opinions of a recent
women’s political gathering in Sydney :
I could bust my sides over this women’s vote question.
We was goiqg to sanctify the ’ouse o’ Parliament, to clean
out them fairy-tale Stables, t’ elevate the men an’ sich
like. And what’s bein’ done now? Those meek men,
what’s jfoin’ to be purified, have undertook the office of
teachin’ the women 1 They take ’em by the ’and an*
lead ’em by the nose.
JoiiSikv Skk, he jest parti their 'air tender-like off o|


The equitable life assurance society
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR TEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER. 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IK ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
ASSETS “
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. -- ~
SURPLUS
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 bt ...
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies Pay Claims, e.c.
YYTT T I M‘MITA\N. K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR. MB, M.L.C.
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager Tor Australasia.
F C COWI EY Secretary. ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
* ' S W. D’ARCY IRVIN*. F. 8.5., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
£,265,597,775
£19,915,124
£,73,855,783
£4,359.175
£,15.418,151
. £620.434
£*>.565,178
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, OEEODLAB SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Rabbit Curse”
May be turned into “a blessing in disguise” by such as hare the energy to
systematically set about trapping dear bunny.
The Roscwarne Packing Co., Ltd.
is now paying high prices for
rabbits at their Chilling Works
in Xarandera and Young, in any quantity. Send for particulars to the Company
either at their Works or their
Head Office : 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The experiment will pay you well.
their marble brows, and advises them for all he’s worth,
iest out o' pure benevolence. “ Now, my dear ladies,"
he says, “ don’t you go and let th’ other coves fool yer.
Your dooty is t’ improve the moral tone o’ the community
(anythink about morals always fetches the women ; they
always rush a noo thing), an’ though I ain’t goin’ so low
down as to beg for your support I would jest remind you
that lam the father o’ the women’s vote, and if you ’ave
any sense of honor you must settle my little account at
the next ’lection.’’
Mr. Winohcombe put silver paper round the same
sentyment, but there it was : “ Ladies, if you want State
reform, reduction o’ members, treatment o’ women in
jails (men’s treatment o’ women out o’ jails ud be more to
the purpose), total extinction o’ sin, or anything else in a
small way, jist plump fer me.”
Then Paddington Sprucb Myth spreads himself on
another platform. My, how he did expand 1 He’s all
there with the ladies if hearin's beleevin’. He talks Uni-
versity an’ culcher, quotes Haristotlk an’ other
rh oteric.
For me, and my name is Martha, I’m going to vote for
the man as goes strate for paying the bills and not havin’
our London tradespeople acomin’ to the back door and
threatenin’ proceedings. That’s not the way / run my
house, and the way I run my house, strate and honest
like, is the way the people ought to run their house.
But I don’t see that man yet. As Mr. O’Sullivan would
say he hain’t risen yet over the political horiceon. When
he cums he’s got my vote.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “The Cotton King."
Rotal “ When the Lamps are Lighted."
Criterion’ “ Fun on the Bristol."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “ Wrong Mr. Wright."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “The Fortune-Teller."
Her Majesty's ......... “The Geisha.”
Theatre R0ya1..., “Man’s Enemy.”
Bijou “ Held In Bondage."
Opbra House ßickards’ Vaudeville 00.
»
“Sweet Nell of Old Drury” is doing
a revival, which promises to be all too brief,
at Sydney Royal. And “ Nell ” should be
able to stand a good many revivals, provided
Nellie Stewart is there to represent the orange-
maiden of the old muddy bye-street, and the
beetle-browed King is up to his present standard.
It is a play with no particular ending, and its
morals are strangely and horribly gone wrongs
but there is a fascination about it that would
assuredly not be there if its morals went right.
Nell Gwynne did a vast amount of good with the
money that the King gave her for being bad, the
King having generally stolen the money in
the first place. They make a handsome and
romantic pair when he comes to her house
worried with thinking what he can steal
next, and she bangs the wages of iniquity in the
shape of the harpsichord to charm away his load
of care. When Jeffreys invades Nell Gwynne s
house in search of the good but persecuted young
baronet, and finds the bad King conoealed there,
and is thus diverted from his pursuit, the fact
must be admitted that if Mistress Gwynne had
been a lady with scruples as to the sort of king
she kept in her house, Charles wouldn’t have been
there, and Jeffreys wouldn’t have been diverted.
If Charles had been a good king he would never
have had that dazzling smile which looks as if he
had swallowed a lighted lamp ; it was only by
the persistent showing of his magnificent front
teeth to a long series of new girls that such a smile
could have been acquired. A good King Charles
would have looked like Barrett’s Alfred of Engle-
land, and a king who looks like that is better
dead. Charles the Joyous, with his three Totties,
and his sins, and his irresponsibleness, and his dog
and his tall boots and his strange swears is poetry.
A better Charles would certainly have been a
brown frump and possibly a Sunday-school teacher.
The new performance is, if possible, better
than the old one. It is the identical company in
all essentials: Nell, and the King, and the
Judge with the clashing laugh and the caver-
nous mouth are in the same capable hands as
before, and all three—Miss Stewart, Harcourt
Beattv and Albert Grau—seem to have added
a finishing touch here and there to their
old fine performances. The fluffy dog is just
the philosophic animal he was before. A
new man—Vernon Steel—plays the persecuted
baronet, and plays him, on the whole, better than
his predecessor. It is, unfortunately, a very
brief revival, for “ Zaza ” is to present a different
and more explosive phase of immorality shortly,
so if there are any people in Sydney who have not
yet seen Charles affably borrowing his subjects’
money, they are hereby reminded that time is
short and kings are only temporary.
** * *
“The Wrong Mr. Wright” at Sydney
Palace proves itself to be the right sort of play for
the public, judging by the patronage it has
attracted. Mr. Wright himself (the gentleman
who was wrong) is a gay and debonnair old dog,
who is inv‘ bly young in heart, though his
G. H. Reid hair suggests that he has reached the
age when stodginess is excusable; and there is
always a great amount of attractiveness in the
spectacle of a gentleman in advanced middle age
being “a bit of a lad.” It makes the elderly
hope, and gives renewed confidence totbosewhoare
not so voung as they were. The Palace show is
therefore popular with the somewhat bald classes
who deliver weighty opinions in public vehicles ;
and with ladies in whose hearts there is generally
hidden the hope that man’s wickedness will
survive to the sixties. When Mr. Wright retires,
another farce new to Sydney is promised.
** * *
Bland Holt’s “Cotton King” has not
made so favorable an impression on Sydney as his
“Drought.” The descent of the lift is somehow
or other a less exciting episode on the stage than
it reads in cold print, aud the audience feels that
it could see a good many people rescued just in
time from that invention without feeling duly
excited. Probably Poe’s hair-raising anecdote of
the man who was about to be flattened between
walls that closed in on him wouldn’t look much on
the stage. In the last act the villain’s numerous
iniquities are found out all in a bunch, as usual,
to the accompaniment of peaceful, green scenery
and the goodwill of the happy villagers, who, as
usual, leave their work and their babies and pre-
paring the old man’s dinner, to be present at the
psychological moment.
*» * *
“ Widow O’Brien ” goes cheerfully enough
on its way at Sydney Criterion, kept up by
Sheridan mostly in a barrel-like skirt with extra-
ordinary lattice-work adornment round it. The
interpolated man who sings “ Surely Not ” and
makes observations on King Edward rather
improves on acquaintance, and Miss Celia Mavis,
whose voice is getting lamentably shrieky, makes
something of a successful effort in “ The Love-lorn
Lily.” Carden’s song,. “ Nellie McNally,” or
words adjacent thereto, is not a well-chosen ditty :
but the rest of the performance is much as usual.
The airy dancing of the brief-skirted stewardesses
has been varied once or twice of late through a
too active damsel accidentally falling into a pray-
ing attitude through excess of vigor. “The
Widow” will be succeeded on Saturday by
another old drama, “ When the Lamps are
Lighted,” wherein Johnny Sheridan plays six
characters.
** * *
Amateur manager Philip Lytton had a
field night at Sydney Royal on Friday when
“The Players” gave a first-class rendering of
Muskerry’* grimly natural tragedy “The Iron-
THE ENLIGHTENMENT OF THE FIJI HEATHEN.
master.” Every part of the house was filled with
a crowd in evening dress, and the rustle of fans
made a sound like unto the rustle of a cornfield, and
the place looked like a vast garden of many-colored
poppies waving in a gale. Philip Lvtton s Players
have caught on in Sydney. "The Ironmaster' is
the story of a French young lady of high degree
and manv francs who is engaged to the Duke de
Bligny. The Duke is a mighty gambler, and when
he learns that Clare de Beaulieu has lost her
shekels in a law-suit he prepares to sell himself
and all his nobility to the daughter of Pontius
P. Pedgift, the ' American millionaire who
had made his cash out of Sunshine Soap.
Muskerry evidently had a fierce and bitter hatred
of the American plutocrat, and made Pedgift a
weird combination of meanness, social ambition,
and ghastly ignorance of the proprieties. Finding
she is jilted.' Clare de Beaulieu makes haste to
accept the Ironmaster. Philippe Derblay, who has
long worshipped her from afar, and mames him
in short order. Then, on the bridal night, she
orders him from the room, and offers him the for-
tune she does not know she has lost as compensa-
tion. The grizzled Ironmaster goes out with
bitterness in his heart, and plans how to break his
wife’s spirit. He is a terribly serious, man, that
Ironmaster. Meanwhile the Duke, having secured
the soap millions, grows utterly sick of the parvenu
duchess, and comes back to make love to the Iron-
master’s wife, and that inane man of metal helps the
Duke in his nefarious design all he knows how,
by rejecting the advances of the wife, who has
learned to love him. The Ironmaster .flirts with
the Duchess, and the Ironmaster’s wife rejects
the advances of the perfidious Duke. She has an
explanation with tne Duchess and orders her to
leave her house. The Duchess refuses, the hus-
bands are drawn into the row, a duel is arranged,
and when they meet they are to fire at “six. '
The Duke fires at “four,” just as the Ironmasters
wife rushes in to stop the duel. She stops the
Duke’s bullet instead, and the curtain comes down
with a rush over a ruined Duke, a broken-hearted
husband and a dying wife.
* • • •
The acting was good throughout, but
Mrs. Lytton and Owen Bancroft excelled them-
selves in the bridal chamber scene in the second
act. As the Duke, Lincoln Jones went, to the
dogs in a most natural way. W. J. Curtis made
the Murkan millionaire all that author could have
desired ; and Misses Booth, Lonsdale and others
did good work. The orchestra was not up to the
standard of the players, and may consider itself a
drawback, a blot and a back number, or something
thereabouts,
** * *
Sydney Tivoli continues to present a pro-
gramme of even (almost monotonous) merit, to
which John Coleman, Wallace Brownlow, G. W.
Hunter, Mark Anthony, Maccann and the Mon-
troses are the most popular contributors. On
Saturday, it is understood, the game of pushball
will begin to rage, and some other new features
will be introduced. The Tivoli just now pines for
new features.
** * *
“ The Fortune Teller,” lately discussed at
length in this journal as a Sydney production, is
now happening at Melbourne Princess’s. It began
to happen on Saturday night, and the local public
rushed the show with enthusiasm. "The Fortune
Teller,” in its loudest orchestral moments is grand
opera, especially in the finale of the second act.
and the story belongs to the old opera-bouffe
order of narrative that was popular before W.
S. Gilbert brought satire into the business. Per-
haps the music has a distinctly Hungarian twang.
Anyway, it is not French and sparkling, or
German and dreamy, or rich Italian, or Bohemian
Girlish, and as the scene is laid at Buda-Pesth, the
title of “Romantic Hungarian Comic Opera”
fits the case fairly well. The romance of the plot
might be more interesting under brighter
acting conditions; the music of the principal
parts would undoubtedly have more charm for the
average citizen if the voices were sweeter. Very
little of the best music in " The Fortune Teller ”
is superficially tuneful or "sugary.” to use the
scornful term of the Wagnerites. There are ex-
ceptions, notably the gipsy basso’s serenade in the
second act; but, as a rule, the airs—or, rather,
the effects of the airs—are what the singers make
them. That is to say, the melodies of composer
Victor Herbert are tuneful or otherwise according
to the quality of the voices that produce them.
• • • •
Neither Madame Slapoffski nor Lempnere
Pringle sang charmingly on Saturday night.
Madame’s voice came as a disappointment, for it
had apparently lost color and vivacity since she
was heard in “ Mignon ” two or three years ago.
Pringle was a greater disappointment than the
Srima-donna. His voice had a depressing effect.
Iverything it touched was turned to dullness. He
was not recognisable as the basso who sang
Mephisto to Ella Russell’s Marguerite. Looking
at Pringle’s tame performance of the angry brown
Gipsy, and Madame Slapoffski’s earnest endeavors
to be gay and sprightly, a lot of people must have
turned their thoughts back to the original Emilie
Melville and big Bill Verdi. “The Fortune-
Teller ” needs two such artists as they were.
m• 9 • •
Miss May Beatty, who comes late upon
the scene, tends to shake things up; Edward
Lauri is a humorous old man ; W. R. Shirley, as a
Polish count, looks rather like a lady-barber, and
Foster Courtenay is an aged father in an un-
accountable nigger-minstrel hat. The orchestra
chorus and scenery are the mam strength of the
attraction, judging from Saturday’s results. The
spectacular musical climax of the 2nd act is
something out of the ordinary way of comic
* . * *
• At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the revived
‘ ‘ Geisha ” is putting in time until “ The Emerald
Isle” comes along. Arguments for and against
“The Geisha" are pretty well known in Mel-
bourne and they carry about the same weight as
of yore. The music is good of its kind, but
the whole of it was written by one Jones,
whose style grows monotonous after the tenth
ballad. Also the ditties have a consider-
able sameness and the poet rhymes Geisha
with “Asia” at the slightest provocation
But if the lyrics are puerile, the prose portion of
the book is comparatively smart and the insane
conduct'of a young person named Molly threatens
to make everybody blush for the consequences,
which is a pleasing threat, anyhow. Finally
Mimosa San extricates Molly from her awful
predicament by a hollow device, and the gaudy
entertainment stops short. Take it for all in all,
“ The Geisha ” is as well worth revival as any of
the kindred frivolities that have come out here
with a London reputation. There was a gap to
be filled, and “the Queen of the # Geisha-the
Geisha” (otherwise “the Jewel of Asia—of Asia )
fills the vacuum picturesquely.
• • • ■
The Williamson Opera Co. doesn’t 6hine
to special advantage in this instance. Miss
Young is a robust mezzo Mimosa, whereas she
ought to be a small soprano San. Miss Came
Moore makes too many eyes, and Maud Chetwynd
is not a bit like a French interpretess in a heathen
tea-shop. And there are others who have been
more happily situated than now, but as they will
soon get situations in another opera, the present
matter is of no consequence.
*» » *
Rev Alf. Woods, the hot-gospeller, is
still chasing Glory Quayle for the good of her soul
at Melb. Bijou. This is the second week of The
Christian.” and the first week after Shrove Tues-
day, which is the Feast of Pancakes and the full-
ness thereof. When the righteous Woods turneth
away from his morality and droppetb into the
embrace of a fine, red-haired Manx girl, who
crieth “ Kiss me ! ” then is it clear to the meanest
understanding that the shepherd ought to shut up
shop and take the goods the gods have provided
for him. But instead of staying with Glory
when he has caught her, the misguided clergy-
man goes looking for trouble, and trouble be-
falls him on the back of his head, likewise
on his boko. Then he marries the girl and dies,
whereas he might have married her and lived.
Rev. Alf. Woods, alias John Storm, is about the
silliest hero on record. If the drama bad a
moderate sense of humor it would carry on the
narrative after the parson’s decease, and show
how his widow became engaged to Mr. Drake on
their way back from the funeral.
** • *
On Saturday the Woods-Williamson co.
will revive “The Gates of Bondage,” the drama
wherein the Lord Archbishop of the Manx diocese
condemns Woods to dwell in solitude on the sad
shore.
** * *
The great temperance sermon entitled
“Man’s Enemv,” will be preached for the first
time at Melb. Royal on Saturday night next,
when Miss Duggan will make her re-appearance
with the Anderson Co. in the character of the
ladv whose husband sacrifices the ’appv ’oroe for
drink. Melbourne has gone a long time without
a temperance mission. The city.needs awakening
to the evils of the bottle. The sin of the deceit-
ful clove, which men put into their mouths
to hide the whiskv odor, slumbered for
want of a drama that will prick the city
into action, and improve the local demand for
“ soft stuff.” A large, aggressive advt. of Some-
bod v's Beer disfigures the centre of Anderson 8
advt.-curtain. The temptation to insobriety was
never so dangerous as now. Therefore an angel
came to Anderson by night, and prompted him to
produce “Man's Enemy, or the Downward rath,
on a scale of exceptional completeness.
The late Kate Vaughan, besides being an excellent, all-
round actress, was the most graceful dancer on tne
burlesque stage, but it was particularly in her portrayal
of the London street-arab that she was without aj-iyat^


a
KM
c?
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
STOCKS in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. IND E N TS . —LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPL/ STRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and KoprEL, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase,_ “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties oifered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,"
Melbourne.*
* • « *
Ernest de Beer, Salisbury Buildings, Bourke-
St., Melbourne, has opened up a fine shipment of
plumbago crucibles. He seems to be progressive in
catering for assayers’ requirements.*
• * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N. 9. W,
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of 10.|in. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
• • * *
It is not generally known that in the treatment
of ore as much of the valuable minerals is often lost in
the tailings as is saved by the appliances. This is due
in most instances to the inefficient machines used and
the difficulty in saving the fines and slimes. The best
machine to treat the latter classes are Luhrig Vanners.
These machines are in successful daily use in the principal
gold, galena, copper and tin mines in Australia and
Tasmania, proving their superiority over other so-called
slime machines. Messrs W. & J. Lempriere, 506 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne, are the general agents, and full
particulars can be obtained from them.*
• • • *
A. Kozmmsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
• * * •
Insurance Agents News, August, 1902, writes:
“ We congratulate the Directors of the Colonial Mutual
upon the highly gratifying results of last year’s operations,
especially as these results have been achieved during
a period of exceptional depression and difficulty.”
• * * *
The North Gippsland Proprietary Company,
Grant, has been engaged for many months past driving
a long tunnel in very hard country. The tunnel is now
some 2500 ft. in length. The last 1500 feet has been
driven with the aid of the Gardner Electric Rock Drill
which has given the manager every satisfaction ; only one
drill has been in use and it is still working in as good
condition as when first started. About 35 feet of drilling
is done by it every shift, so the installation of the Electric
Drill must be regarded as in every way successful. The
drill requires less than two horse power to drive
it as against a.t least ten horse power required for
an air driven drill doing the same work, besides dispensing
with compressor, receivers and air pipes. The fact that
this Electric Drill has been working so satisfactorily in
one of the most inaccessible parts of Victoria is sufficient
proof that the plant is not liable to derangement. The
sole agents for the Gardner Electric Drill are the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne, who will
be pleased to answer all enquiries.*
- JuJeei-^liced/Aango,
GKEENA\AMCO,CASHMERE.
«f MADRAS# , C
All Grocery and^roreKeeperjxveryujfiere
SCHWEPPES
GOLD
MEDAL
SELTZER WATER
Supplied, to Her Late Majesty Queen Vlotorla for 03 Year
The Wild Cat Column.
“J”* lo " »'«/“.«» only yMdrt , bSKiSto!
unimmfrV .tj W.Tfi ! 8, .‘.?° “"’..b-d, o> the
“° lbo " n « IT^ ™ S re B ret table—in (act, it was shock-
ing to find that there were people in the old world
always ready to listen to all abuse that could be levelled
against Australia or Maoriland It was a mnnaimna fL-
people .®^g'*and W were "ready*, n on°the e Bli *occa!
JTwSsTbtl calumny."
Our liabilities and assets were such that none but those
who were actuated by unworthy motives would write so
as to force down the value of our loans so as to allow in-
vestors getting stock at outrageously low prices. He felt
very strongly on the subject, and thought the time had
come when we should band together and teach people in
ry thatthey should not treat our st<x:k in
Bhoul £ Bhow the “ that there were other
markets that we could go to for our money. The attack
on Australian finances was resented in Maoriland because
they knew it was unjustifiable. It made one’s blood boil
when one saw these strictures made against a self-governing
people, and for no other reason that he could B think of
than the unworthy motives he had mentioned.”
The Bulletin respectfully asks Joseph Ward
what is the good of boiling over in this silly, childish
fashion ? A very large proportion of our borrowings have
been expended on utterly unproductive undertakings,
whether it is monstrous ”to say so or not. The fact
stares at the public in the Government’s own official
publications, and no amount of lying can shift it one iota,
there is a great and angry bumptiousness about Ward’s
assertion that nobody can oppose his borrowing mania
except from unworthy motives, and his off-hand assump-
tion that he keeps a'l the worthy motives in his tail
pocket is very beautiful.
• • • •
The Union Bank op Australia completed
1902 • hlghly 'Prosperous half-year on 30th August
Profits. Dividends. "”g ten Reserves.
Aug., 1896.. £58,838 5 p.c. =£37,500 £lO,OOO £1,024,489
Feb., 1897.. 37,578 5,, „ 37,500 1,024,567
3 Z' 436 s i. .. 37,500 1,024,503
Feb., 1898.. 47,696 5 „ „ 87,500 10,000 1,024,699
Aug., 1898.. 42,579 5,, ~ 37,500 1,029,778
Feb., 1899.. 42,071 6„ „ 45,000 1,026,849
Aug., 1899.. 48,514 6„ ~ 45,000 1,030,363
Feb., 1900.. 92,002 7 „ „ 52,500 60,000 1,019,865
Aug., 1900.. 79,825 7 „ „ 52,500 25,000 1,022,190
Feb., 1901.. 86,628 8 „ „ 60,000 25,000 1,023,818
Aug., 1901.. 95,681 8 „ „ 60,000 35,000 1,024,499
Feb., 1902.. 96,714 8 „ „ 60,000 25,000 1,036,213
Aug., 1902.. 93,931 8 „ „ 60,000 50,000 1,020,144
The net earnings would have been larger but for the fact
that there is a vote of £4OOO to the pension fund for the
bank s officials, in addition to the ordinary outgoings
The ordinary earnings (£97,931) represent £7 14s. sd. per
cent, per annum on the shareholders’ funds as they stood
at the commencement of the half-year. Deposits stand
at £15,261,294, while the reserve of and liquid
securities is enormous, amounting in all to over
£6,700,000.
Some years ago, when the Union Bank made an
overhaul of it* securities, it was decided that a writing-
off of £250,000 would probably be necessary in order to
provide for all known losses. This sum was not definitely
written off at the time, but at various times £200,000 has
been provided to meet these losses, in addition to
£lO,OOO for the purpose of writing down the bank’s office
property account. This makes £210,000, in all, written
off since 1899, and if the original estimate holds good,
there now remains only £50,000 to be provided. Another
year should do this, without interfering in any way with
the 8 per cent, dividend.
• » * •
The Balmain New Ferry Co. (Sydney) has
at last found it advisable, after a very inferior half-
year, to cut down its dividend from the long-standing 10
per cent, to 7i
Added
Net to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1898 £1477
Dec., 1898 .. £1372 10 per cent. = £648 £724 2201
June, 1899 .. 1355 10 „ ~ 648 . 707 2908
Dec., 1899 .. 1687 10 „ ~ 648 1039 3947
June, 1900 .. 773 10 „ „ 648 125 4072
Dec., 1900 .. 975 10 „ „ 648 827 4399
June, 1901 .. 990 10 „ „ 648 342 4741
Dec., 1901 .. 494 10 ~ „ 648 4587
June, 1902 .. 1031 10 „ „ 648 383 4970
£367 profit made on sale of Forfeited Shares 6337
Dec., 1902 .. 272 7£ per cent. = 616 4993
The. balance-sheet doesn’t state what the dividend
amounts to, but presumably (unless some special
arrangement was made) the shares sold during the
half-year rank for full dividend, in which case the
position is as shown above. The management puts a
better face on things by applying the £367 profit made
on the sale of forfeited shares towards paying for repairs ;
but when these and all other outgoings are charged, as
they should be, against the legitimate earnings of the
half-year, the net profit is only £272, which is very much
below the average. The gross receipts (£9645) are nearly
£4OO short of those for the previous half-year, and, with
increased outgoings, the results are as above. But for
the half-year to June, 1900, the gross receipts were only
£6319 (£3OOO less than they are now), while the net pro-
fits were £773 (£5OO more than they are now). The
Balmain New Ferry Co. has had very moderate luck since
it bought (in July, 1900) the lumbering old paddle-arks of
the original Balmain Ferry Co. and extended its connec-
tion to Mort’s Dock.
* » * »
Victoria has £5,000,000 of old per cent, loans
to renew at the end of this year, and nearly £500,000 of 4
per cent, loans also. They might be renewed even now
at a comparatively cheap rate on the Federal credit, but
Premier Irvine, apparently for the mere preservation of
his own small State dignity, says “ We are going to look
after the matter ourselves,” and the renewal of that big
loan on the State’s dilapidated credit promises to be a
terribly expensive job. Yet there is one way by which it
might, even in those bad times, be done on reasonable
terms. Let Irvine announce, in the prospectus of the
renewal loan, that £245,000 a year, being about the
amount of the interest payable on the old loans, is set
aside for the service of the new loan, and that the £50,000
a year or so which will remain after paying interest will
be deposited with the Bank of England (where Shiels
can’t get at it) as a sinking fund. That would do more to
rehabilitate Victoria’s credit than all the purple streaks
of eloquence that Treasurer William could get off in a
year.
* * • *
The Sydney Permanent Freehold Land and
Building Co. Ltd. (Sydney) did a little better in 1902
than in the previous year, hut it still fails to make ends
meet, and the deficit still grows. This is despite the fact
that interest on deposits (amounting to £74,824) is wholly
SKSfS&SjStS I6 , wbich , ou Kht to enable an
p, «*. k any mo2z ' e ® all to turn the corner :
on *£* Yotal capital
Busi- Pm *f oBB Tota l nomi-
neT J2L tor Deficit. nally
1896 Pe'tiw. year. intact.
1897" £lB7 prToo „ ~ £16,395 £86,360
Loss on £1,336 17 ’ 730 85 - 025
Business.
1899 ' I 3 Hff 3 - 446 21,145 81,610
1900" o.a 2,328 2,361 23,506 79,249
1J8:: 662 3 if>% 3 \ 7 Jf 58,248
1902 Sfii ?’ 723 3,285 61,503 41,254
1902.. 361 2,006 2,367 63,870 38,887
£ll7 839 P but e affh B investme ' lt3 . to the nominal value of
all other ‘? COme denved from these and from
than 16s ner cenf nn tl ear Was °, nly £928 (ef)ua ‘ t 0 less
mp „. ..1 P er c . eot- on the nominal value of the invest-
indeed the Sa ’ d value is ver y nominal
absolute] v trrnHo f UB - e of £74,824 of deposit money
working exnenJ 8 ’ but , a ® lts lnc °me isn’t sufficient to pay
even t-hf* ft £fil, 8 t S u a , nd . interest on a mortgage of £5047
of progress PII j onff much - A certain amount
depositors ™JI “ made at reducing the liability to
follows? tgagees and bank * which has stood as
Net Liabilities (Deposits, Mortgages and Overdraft
, „„„ less cash and credit balances).
1898 - £119,381 .. _
1899 “ “ £12,193 reduction
ffl = If : SS :
1902 “ 79,*671 I: 7,’152
shoi.lH 0 hf^ 6 ’ wh I lch J s .the only interest-bearing liability,
thhris ICS.1 C S. ° ff in another y ear °r two and then
loiks vmhff V nip ” Ve a little ’ but the Prospect
there is nn „vj° r depositors, and for the shareholders
mere is no visible prospect whatever.
T> * * * *
Daper?fmn It;i- 1 t ;i-? f r a “i obscure corner of an Adelaide
pa p er (from its London correspondent) Mr. H Noves
the Ad t ei y a ld P SU< l Ce f d - e< l in raisingthe ca P‘ tal required for
in® fl de * a l de eiectric tramways, but with the aid of lead-
flolun* of An’ a r h r ar l m Che hal,it of arranging for the
win ho S H° f i Australla n ioiins, it is probable that the issue
ided .' T t he faot that the fi Sures as to ex-
w and S ° o, '|- h now submitted differ from
el^ctrifvinivih b i fore ca P ,tall3ts wh en the proposal for
presen^ 3t made has told against the
F«fn o 1 kmg: ,' Mr ‘ N °.V es has gone oh business to
fhere’” n„ e^ any ’ bu t, will only make a very brief stay
mere. Do the unemployed notice how cold the Snow is'?
* • «
™L SYDmY AND Suburban Mutual Perma-
AND Land Investment Association, Limited
a shX y), Th^ ks a shade better than last year, but only
fn each ye!r e -i alanCe ' Sheet ‘ S made up to 31st Januar y
Loss Loss Total Deficit Capital
on on Loss for less Nominally
189 ft B S!',Co 33 ’ Pr „°P er > Year - Reserves. Intact.
1896 £llB9 £2206 £3395 £44,167 £54,314
Profit. . .
1897 141 2681 2540 46,7.07 51,836
.LOSS.
1898 1494 5560 7054 53,761 44 787
moo ?000 6383 7994 61 • 755 36,825
190? jo!? 6544 7826 69,581 29,022
1909 2970 4311 73,892 24,711
19OT lilt 2876 76,768 21.835
UO3 1255 874 2129 78,897 19,70*6
This co. pays only 3 per cent, interest to its depositors,
cut even at that low rate it keeps drifting steadily to
leeward. There is not much capital still intact, even on
paper, to meet further losses, and while the visible
deficit grows rapidly, the progress made at reducing the
liabilities isn't great. On 31st January, 1896, the co.
owed £108,847 on deposits, overdraft and amounts due
on buildings. At 31st January, 1903, it owed, when its
ba “* credit balance was deducted from its liabilities,
£94,241. A reduction of £14,606 in liabilities in seven
years isn t much of a set-off against an increase of £34,730
m the visible deficit; and, on paper at all events, the
situation is growing steadily worse.
* • • •
The Maoriland Government, or rather, Premier
Seddon, begins to seriously reconsider the State’s position
as regards the Bank of New Zealand. When Private
Management ran that big institution so heavily on the
rocks, the State took control and advanced £2,500,000 to
pull the concern through. It advanced this money at
exactly the interest that the State itself had to pay. It
made no profit out of the deal; and gave its guarantee,
and took an enormous risk, for absolutely nothing. At a
time when the B.N.Z. couldn’t have sold a new issue of
shares to any private capitalist the State took them up
without even stipulating that it was to get anything at all
for saving the private shareholders from ruin. It didn’t
even clearly stipulate that it wasn’t to be kicked out
with ingratitude as soon as it had finished saving the
old proprietors from the consequences of their own
mismanagement. But now that the B.N.Z. is becoming
a profitable institution again under State management,
and the excitement has had time to calm down, the
position is being reconsidered in a more sober fashion.
It is variously proposed that the State should insist on
the £2,000,000 it still has in the bank being re-
garded as permanent capital instead of temporary
aid, and should thus be permanently the chief
partner in the institution. Another idea is that the
State should buy up the institution bodily. Still
a third is that the B.N.Z. should be allowed to repay the
Government advances when it is able to do so, but that
the State should retain control as an unpaid trustee for
the shareholders in order to prevent any repetition of the
old disasters. Probably the best suggestion of all would
be for the State to buy up the shareholders’ interest in
the business, and make it a State Bank pure and simple.
Certainly the present position is very indefinite and un-
satisfactory. Its indefiniteness arose from the fact that
the Bank of New Zealand rushed the Government with
a demand for aid within 24 hours, and in the alarm lest
the institution should close its doors next morning and
fill Maoriland with panic the State’s interests were very
little considered at the moment.
* * * •
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tas-
mania) :
Deficit.
(Goodwill
Surplus not
Dividends and for Be- reckoned
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, an Asset).
June, 1896 £4602 5 per cent. =£4429 £173 £9161
Dec., 1896 4444 5 ~ „ 4429 15 9146
June, 1897 4428 5 ~ ~ 4429 9147
Dec., 1897 4429 5 „ „ 4429 9147
June, 1898 4450 5 „ ~ 4429 21 9126
Dec., 1898 3129 3 „ „ 2658 471 8655
June 1899 2668 3 „ „ 2658 10 8645
Dec., 1899 2375 3 „ „ 2658 8928
June, 1900 3108 3 „ „ 2658 450 8478
Dec., 1900 2998 3 ~ „ 2658 340 8138
June, 1901 3354 3 „ „ 2658 696 7442
Dec., 1901 4035 3 „ „ 2658 1377 6065
(£60,750 capital written off, out of which £7500
was applied to wipe off goodwill, leaving a Reserves.
Credit balance of £1435) • £1435
June, 1902 £4981 6 per cent. =£3402 £1579 3014
Dec., 1902 3788 6 ~ ~ 3402 386 3400
The earnings show a considerable falling away as com-
pared with the two previous half-years, and the sum
added to the reserves is inconsiderable. This, however,
is not the most important feature of the case. The
Cascade Brewery Co. appears to be spreading out in
many directions, and its earnings are certainly not
growing in proportion. Also the profits that remain
alter payment of dividend are quite insufficient to cover
these expansions, whioh are mostly done with borrowed
money. Taking three recent dates at random, the
principal liabilities have been as follows
Mortgages, R ,
Debentures 0 Total,
and Deposits. ° verdraft ‘
Dec., 1900.. £80,562 £20,095 £100,657
June, 1902.. 84,507 18,530 103,037
Dec., 1902.. 94,131 22,538 116,669
This last increase may be only temporary, but it looks an
alarmingly rapid increase, and a debt of £116,669 is a very
heavy load to be carried by a co. with £lOB,OOO capital.
If the dividend were cut down to 5 per cent, it would at
least leave a larger margin with which to reduce this
liability—or to diminish the velociti' of its increase.
These remarks are made in a friendly spirit; everybody
who. has tasted Cascade beer feels friendly towards the
institution.
• * • *
The Bulletin receives an anonymous leaflet,
with no imprint, about “ the fall in the A.M.P. Society’s
bonuses.” Presumably it is the work of one of the A.M.P.'s
business rivals, and in a time when all bonuses are falling,
the malice is more obvious than the point. The Bulletin
trusts that the person who issued the document will be
fined the usual amount, with the alternative of three
months, for circulating literature with no imprint
thereon.
* • * •
The Hobart Gas Co. (Hobart, Tasmania) which
is really a gas and electric light co.—that is to say, it
makes a large profit on its gas business and loses a good
deal of it on its electric light business:—
Added
Dividends and to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
June, 1899 .. £4349 £8 17 9 p.c. =£4620 £3455
Dec., 1899 .. 4743 817 9 „ „ 4620 £123 3578
June, 1900 .. 4542 817 9„ „ 4620 3500
Dec., 1900 .. 4901 817 9 „ „ 4620 281 3781
June, 1901 .. 4627 817 9 „ „ 4620 7 3788
Dec., 1901 .. 5171 817 9 ~ „ 4620 551 4339
June, 1902 .. 5062 817 9 „ „ 4620 442 4781
Dec., 1902 .. 5081 8179 „ „ 4620 461 5242
The paid-up capital is £99,000. The dividend (£4400) to
be strictly accurate, is about £8 17s. 9d. and a fraction
per cent, but the fraction is too small to be identifiable.
• * • *
Queensland Meat Export Co. (Premier Philp is
one of its directors, a Cabinet colleague another, and the
shareholders are on the whole very “ political ”) owes the
State £26,647, balance of a loan of nearly £40,000, granted
by the Meat and Dairy Board to see the co. through its
struggling days. Now the Q.M.E. Co. pays a2O per cent,
dividend, but it is in no hurry to pay back its liability to
the State. And Queensland people nod significantly.
The inevitable row ’twixt local authorities and
the Brisbane Tram Co. is just coming round the corner.
The South Brisbane Municipal Council wrote to the co."
complaining of the overlapping of sectional charges on a
new line, and the co. replied in its best style that it
would see the council further before it altered
to suit the people’s representatives, and further said that 5
in the future, it intended to adopt a Tnove consevvative
policy. That probably means that, having chased all
competitors from the field, it will proceed to keep a still
keener eye on the profits. This is bad enough, but a
worse danger exists. Recent electrical experiments made
by competent men prove that electrolytic action is begin-
ning to take place ’twixt the ground currents of the tram
co. and the water and gas pipes laid in the main streets.
This means that the pipes will have to be shifted at
enormous expense (the tram co. isn’t doing any shifting)
or some fine day a big soakage or explosion may wake the
city fathers from their aldermanic maunderings. Modern
electricians place the margin of safety between return
current and metal piping at 10ft., and in some Brisbane
cases the distance is about 10 inchest. The Adelaide rate-
payers who supinely allowed the Snow tramway grab
should paste this in their hat for future reference
• • • •
The jump in lead past £l2 has set silver stocks
moving and tongues discuss the chances of the re-starting
of the nailed-up B.H. mines. It looks, though, as if the
market has a good way to go yet before some of them
can hope for profits. The Junction North shut up at
£l5, Junction and North at £l2 Bs. 9d., British at £l2 ss.
Block 14 at £lO 7s. 6d. These figures cannot, however*
fairly stand as they are. Junction North has had moder-
ate developments underground since then ; probably it
could run for a while at £l3 10s. Junction, when it
stopped, couldn’t produce at £l6 ; it has cut £3 off that
North is in very little better position than it was!
It has improved its plant; but, then, silver has
slumped 4d. an ounce, and that is about a fair set-off.
British could not have continued to produce at £l2 ss.’
but could do so now, though with very little to spare.’
What Block 14 can do is very doubtful; it certainly hung
on till lead got to £lO 7s. 6d., but it had been losing
money by the shovelful for 12 months, though how its
mining and ore-dealing respectively panned out its
accounts don’t tell. As for the mines that are not shut
up, a £1 lead rise means to the B.H. Prop, ahout £24,000
a half-year ; to the South, about £BOOO ; to the Sulphide
about £ll,OOO ; and to Block 10, £6OOO. ’
* • • •
The mean of the annual average prices of lead
for 25 years is a small fraction under £l3, and for the past
10 years (this period including the two worst lead slumps
on record), £l2 6s. In the boom of ’93-1900, when the
price got close up to £lB, much more metal was, no doubt
produced than could be absorbed, and a big but uni
certain quantity went into stock ; in two years a large
hole has most likely been made in this, and upon how
big that hole is mainly depends the future of the market.
Australians interested in the business have been alarmed
to see that the American output has been about main-
tained in spite of the slump ; but the fact is there hasn’t
been any slump to speak of in the U.S.—the tariff
steadied the market. There isn’t, in fact, any sign at all
of’Murkan producers being able to “flood the market”
at late European prices ; and altogether the lead outlook,
though statistics have not been particularly favorable is
a bit better than fair. Unfortunately, though, for
Broken Hill, the prospects of the silver market are poor
The B.H. Prop., for instance, could, in the early nineties*
have worked at a profit if lead had been nothing a ton •
now, with silver at Is. lOd. instead of 45., even that
great co. must get £lO for its lead to make tucker.
* • * *
An inspection of the Crowl Creek mine, Shuttle-
ton, near Nymagee (N.S.W.), which writer made last
week, fully confirms the good reports which had been re-
ceived from disinterested parties. The mine presents
appearances which justify the assumption that it will
become one of the large copper producers of N.S. W. It is
obvious that during the term of the working option the
policy of the purchasing syndicate was to root out every
ounce of high grade ore, and progressive development
work was neglected. This is now being proceeded
with on legitimate lines. Where the lode was
touched at the lowest point it was 20ft wide
of solid yellow ore, averaging 22 per cent.*
A crosscut is now being driven 40ft. lower down which
will intersect the formation 50ft. south of the winze
This drive should be into the lode within a few days, and",
on indications, it will be surprising indeed if a strong
body of ore is not found. Co. intends to adopt reverb,
system of smelting, and tenders have been invited for
the manufacture of the necessary bricks. It is stated
locally that it is proposed to erect the furnaces near a
waterhole some two miles distant from the mine. This
will be mistaken policy. Better to cart a ton of water to
100 tons of ore at the mouth of the mine than to cart 100
tons of ore to 1 ton of water two miles awav.
••* J •
Much activity prevails at Cobar consequent on
recent rains having given the Co.’s full supplies of water.
Great improvements have been made in the surface
arrangements of the big copper mine since G. H.
Blakemore took charge, and it requiies no expert to see
that there is still room for vast alterations having
efficiency and economy in view. The new furnace
erected by Mr. Blakemore is putting through close upon
300 tons of ore per day, or nearly four times as much as
any one of the old furnaces was capable of treating. It
ia stated that the mine is looking: wonderfully well in the
lower levels, but in view of the negotiations for the
purchase of the mine no official information is available
on this or other points.
* • • •
Cobar Gold Mines battery is in full swing.
Local officials are as dumb as oysters, but a report comes
from London that much improved prospects have been
met with lately. Australian shareholders in thisco. have
a serious grievance. They are denied information as to
the yields or progress of work until reports have passed
through London office and that office transmits the in-
formation to Australia, where it arrives nearly three
months afterdate. The initial mistake made in locating
the big battery is now more than self-evident. Co. is
hemmed in on all sides with stacks of tailings, and a long
tramway has had to be constructed to remove the worth-
less material as produced. The expenses of handling
and re-handling must be heavy and in themselves preclude
any possibility of large profit being made unless the
grade of ore becomes higher. Had the battery been
placed on top of Fort Bourke Hill there would have been
every natural facility for the gravitation of sand and
slimes on the eastern slope without any interference with
miners’ residences. As things are now there are several
miners’ homes which are walled round with tailings, and
lovely habitations they must be to live in on a windy
day.. One advantage may be that the prevailing dust
provides ample thickening for soup. Co. is apparently
making no effort to get down with the shaft
to prove the cupriferous zone. Whenever it makes
up its mind to do so, it will be well rewarded, as it
will find that it has one of the most valuable gold-copper
mines in the State. Shareholders make no complaint
about this dilatoriness, and the suggestion is made that
certain persons who hold a large number of the shares
are content to lie low in the hope that ultimately they
will get the whole show into their hands.
* * * *
Chesney Cobar is busily engaged in pumping
water which is running to waste. Why it is not utilised
by some of the other mines is incomprehensible. It is
understood that Mr. Woolcock will return to the mine in
a few days to resume active operations. Alterations are
to be made to the concentrating plant to increase its
efficiency. Mr. Woolcock is confident? that he can make
a profit-earner of the mine as a concentrating proposition,
and if energy and application will accomplish this he will
assuredly be successful. The old tailings heap at the
mine has been purchased by a cyanide man who laughs
at the suggestion that the copper contents present any
difficulty to successful and profitable treatment.
Occidental battery has been working continu-
ously since Dec. 1 last, and up to 19th Feb. had produced
14500 z. of gold, and from cyanide £2BOO had been won.
A3d div. is payable on the 17th inst. Co.’s half-yearly
report and balance-sheet have just been issued. ‘ They
are artistic productions. They have been designed to
give as little information as possible, and, in this respect,
could not be improved upon. Tonnages treated by bat-
tery and cyanide are carefully omitted, and to find out
what the working expenses really have been, shareholders
must work out their own calculations. Directors state
that they propose to prospect the big lode at the copper
zone, and they express the belief that it will be
a great source of profit if the price of copper is main-
tained at the present figure. They do not state, however,
how they propose to provide for this extra expense. The
policy suggested is the right one to pursue, but to carry it
out there will have to be a diminution in dividends.
• • • »
The camel-man is in luck : driven out of part of
West Queensland and N.S.W. by the rains, he gets
at once to work on the long, dry track to Arltunga, the
new Centralian goldfield.
( Continued on page 30.)


V
David Jones & Co.
“ORIENT” BOOTS.
Special Purchase of American-
made Boots, Black or Brown
Vici Kid,
Price
21/-
By Post
22/-
George & Barrack Sts.
A.
SYDNEY.
T 0 Beginners,
Experienced Amateurs %
Professional Photographers.
ALL YOUR WANTS
WILL BE FOUND IN
Harrington’s
New. . .
Illustrated
Catalogue
Over 300 Pages of Cameras, from 25/- to £oo, Le >
Plates, Papers, Mounts, Chemicals, Accessories,
every conceivable Photo. Requisite.
Application for Catalogue.
Name
Address
HARRINGTON & COj
Photographic
Merchants,
66 KINO STREET, SYDNEY «
93 QUEEN STREET, BRIS
SOCIETY
[?]oo[?]
[?]
Item from “ladies’ page’ - of a North
Queensland paper
Mrs. will reside with Dr. till Mr. ’• return
from the south.
A SWEET NAME.
PROUD MOTER (showing new My to visitor): “ We want a very nice name , indeed, for him,
because he IS so very sweet”
LADY VISITOR (from the sugar districts of Queensland): “ Call him Cain , dear.
A leading hotel which has got into the
habit of publishing week by week a list of its
visitors in the press, now finds itself in a fix.
The guests are bombarded, of course, with the
usual crop of advertisements'and trade circulars,
but, in addition, the male portion is being favored
through the post with the card of Flossie and Co.
As Flossie and Co.’s business card falls impartially
on all alike, the result is often embarrassing to the
married men whose wives open their letters. It
is easy to say that the firm of Flossie and Co. is
quite unknown to the invited one, but not so easy
to say it convincingly, especially if the defendant
has previously visited Sydney on his own, and
looks back on nights that were obscured by a haze
of champagne, and about which it is practically
impossible to remember anythifig.
A correspondent discourses on Bruce
auctions: —
It is not generally known what a Bruce auction (now
proposed in connection with the N.S.W. Drought Relief
Fund) means. Many think it a “ Dutch” auction
beginning high and ending low. It originated in Mel-
bourne with Mr. J. V. A. Bruce, of the firm of Cornish
and Bruce, railway contractors. The Melb. Hospital was
in want of funds, and Mr. Bruce suggested that as com
was scarce, goods, things not wanted in the house, might
he collected and sold by auction. The idea caught on ;
every van man in Melb. gave a day free to gather goods.
The sale was held on Easter Monday, in the early 60 s, on
reserved ground on the Heidelberg-road, at I itzroy. All
the auctioneers in Melbourne gave their services gratis,
and many thousands of pounds sterling were realised.
Mr. Bruce’s hat was sold seven times over by Mr. Gemmell
at a guinea a time. The last purchaser refused to part
with it, or it might have been selling yet. " a \ waB
peculiar to Bruce : white (stove-pipe) felt, with the long
nap brushed the wrong way.
• '• • *
The deaths, within a few months, of two
lady doctors in Melbourne and two in Sydney
have raised again the theory that medicine is no
profession for women. _ The life begins with hard
study, and the rest of it is mostly hard struggle.
• * * *
The same weary old tale of mistaken iden-
tity came from Wagga (N.S.W.) last week, when
a young man was up on the same weary old charge
of assaulting the same girl whom we know so well.
The same girl was positive as to the identity of
her alleged assailant at first, but afterwards stated
that she wasn’t so certain. Then, when the
accused \i&di'pvoved that he was at home in bod at
the time the alleged offence was committed, the
same old girl, on again being asked if she had
made a mistake, calmly allowed that she had.
Accused was at once discharged, as, usual,
“ without a stain on his character,’ and he s going
to be made much of, and have his costs paid for
him, and be presented with a souvenir. But, it
he’s wise, he’ll thank his lucky star that somebody
could prove that he was in bed that night, and
take care, in future, not to venture out after dark
without the protecting care of a maiden aunt or,
at least, four reputable male friends.
• * * *
S.A. Register of Feb. 20th contains par.
to the effect that Lord Tennyson’s sons obtained
permission from ma to have a “shy at Aunt
Sally at Uraidla Show, and one of them succeeded
in knocking over a doll “to the great admiration
of the onlookers.” A tale of three generations:
The father wrote “In Memoriam.” The son is a
governor. The grandson is a moderate shot at
“Aunt Sally.”
More casualness. In 1887 a young man
in Southland (M.L.) took his gun and strolled out
into the bush, and disappeared. He had a nice
little selection and money in the bank, and was
engaged to marry a very nice little girl in Dunedin,
and all was well with him. The search was kept
up for months, but no trace of him was found,
and the insurance co. that had a risk on his life
paid up, on the young man’s relatives guarantee-
ing a refund in the event of his resurrection any
time prior to the last trump. The sequel has just
occurred. A relative of the young lady met the
lost bridegroom of 15 years ago face to face in
Dunedin, and said, “What ho, Bill!” and then
they had a drink. The explanation supplied is
simply that a desire for change came over Bill, and
he left. He was just tired, casual and monotonous.
“ S.D.” : Concerning a
recent par re the cleanliness
of barmaids as certified to
by Turkish bath proprietors:
It is a solid fact that clean-
liness and godliness are diver-
gent as the poles. The pagan
Roman was a cleanly person,
but directly the Christian got
the upper hand, he demo-
lished the baths and cursed
them solemnly, strewing their
sites with salt. In the middle
ages, loam on the human
body was glorified as a posi-
tive virtue, and the monks
vied with one another for
supremacy in picturesque
dirtiness. While not desiring
to asperse the character of
the barmaid generally, it
will be found that in modern
times cleanliness and friski-
ness frequently go together.
I remember overhearing a
virtuous matron telling
another how she had packed
“a Hussy” off her premises
for impropriety, adding that
she had always thought the
girl was no good when she
found herchanging her under-
clothing twice a week.
Further, I remember another
expulsion, this time from a
Temple of Venus in one of
the suburbs. A new acolyte
had been admittod, and
vanished again, and a week . ,
later the presiding priestess explained what had
become of the new girl: “We had to tell her to
go. She wouldn’t wash herself; so she’s turned
respectable again.”
• • • •
The “New Market," Hobart, celebrates
its jubilee this year. The first stone was laid by
Gov. Denison in 1853. The tenacity with which
the old ramshackle place has been called the
“New’’market for half-a-century is characteris-
tic of Tasmanian objection to change of any sort.
There’s no “old’’market —hasn’t been one for a
generation. And the New Market is no market.
In it there’s a slop-clothes shop, an ice-factory, a
skating-rink, and an auctioneer’s store —and that’s
all.
• * *
N.S.W. Fall Court, in an appeal case,
has again wrestled with the subject of what a, hus-
band must endure from his wife before he firmly
slams the front door on his troubles. Petitioner
married a boarding-house keeper. He had an
income of £4 a week, “every penny of which he
gave to her ”; and that ought to have secured him
at least most-favored nation treatment in the
boarding-house concert. But one day
he told her she was getting friendly with one of the
boarders ; he had not the slightest suspicion, but she had
ladies staying in the house, and she would find that they
would object to it. The respondent thereupon got into
a temper. On the following morning he had occasion to
visit the city, and on his return found that his private
belongings had been put out of the respondent’s room
into a servant’s room at the back of the house. He took
them back to the room, and while doing so met the
respondent, and asked her the cause of her behavior.
She replied that she would have nothing further to do
with him. He tried to draw her into the bedroom,
but she screamed out, and the servants and boarders
came from all round the hall. She then sang out that she
would have nothing more to do with him, and ordered
him to clear out of the house, or she would have him
kicked out by the boarders. He stayed there that night,
and left next morning.
Subsequently he wrote to the lady, but she did
not answer him; and he reckoned that she had
deserted him. But the Court didn’t think so.
Mr. Justice Owen said he could see no reason whatever
for the husband leaving the house, under the circum-
stances. He would have thought it his duty to have
stayed there to protect his wife from any familiarity on
the part of the boarders. As to his being afraid that the
boarders would kick him out, the law would protect him,
even if he could not protect himself.
It is a pleasing judicial fiction that the law is
always at hand to protect everybody, yet, as a
rule, when a man is kicked by 12 infuriated
boarders, it takes him two hours to find a police-
man to whom he can tell the belated tale of what
happened to him.
* * * *
Hr. Ashburton Thompson, the self-im*
portant gentleman who administers N.S.W,
Health Department with so much empressement:
No person is a leper until the Board of Health has de-
dared him to be one.
Plainly, then, the leper who successfully conceals
himself from the Board of Health will never be a
leper, even if he is one. And when he dies of
leprosy —having died of a disease he didn’t have—
he won’t be dead, and his burial is an outrage.
* * • *
The sordidness of the cow-prodder—
an advt. from a Rangitikei (M.L.) paper :
-jV/TATRIMONIAL. —A young man, who has just
-“'- L started dairying, wishes to meet with a widow,
with four to six children, with a view to the above.
Age no great consideration, but children must be able
to milk.
No romance or nonsense about love’s young
dream in that—only a cold-blooded proposal that a
possibly elderly and ugly woman should supply
him with a quantity of unpaid (and probably
severely-whacked) child labor, and act as his
housekeeper as well, all in return for his name
(which may be only Simpson) and some kind of a
home.
ADDING TO HIS ENTERTAINMENT.
MASHER : “ I don't know which I enjoy most-
taking you into supper, or making those
fellows jealous about it."
M ASM: “ Oh, if you really enjoy that kind of
thing you ought to just let my husband see
you bringing me out."
A pretty bad tram-car smash which occured
in Sydney last Saturday arose from the fact that,
just when the driver reached in haste for the
handle to turn off the current, < a heavy and
somnolent drunk collapsed across it and blocked
the way. There is no time to remove drunks
under such conditions.
• • •
“ Bunny ” : Cardinal Moran has put his
“splodger” into it again. Recently he made a
stirring (strife-stirring) Bpeech at St. Mary’s
Cathedral, and said, among other things, that
“he saw about 50 men, with placards in their
hats, taking down the names of those who went
in to patronise the R.C. fair at Auburn.” His
Eminence gracefully added that he thought the
men outside the hall were “ the most contemptible
set of scoundrels he ever saw.” Now, the muni-
cipal elections happened to be held on the
day of the Cardinal’s visit to Auburn. The
placards in the hats of the men were simply the
cards of the municipal candidates. The sus-
picious-looking lists were the ratepayers’ rolls,
which were being used forelection purposes. The
Cardinal should, from past experience, be better
up in electioneering.
* • • *
Aged elder, fumbling in pocket during
collection in an NiS.W. country church: “Damn
it! I had some dashed brass in my pocket when
I started. What the did I
do with it ? ” (Then, to venerable
party seated next to him): “I
say, bos 5, lend us sixpence.”
SHE WANTED
IPECACUANHA.
NURSE (splutter-
ing): “Have you
any ip-ip-ip-ip "
ip"
CHEMIST "Ooray ”
The caul superstition still survives. e
cent Argus advt.: .
BABY’S OAUL for Sale, to any person going to
England. 25 at., Footscray.
Such notices were frequent till about 60 years ago,
as much as £3O being asked. Besides ensuring
that its owner never would be drowned, t
inspired eloquence, and was bought by ad
with that view.
THE STAR CHASE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As the softly-swelling murmur of the sighing: wind
acroon
Seemed to fan the jewelled brightness of the stars to
brighter gleam,
And a fleecy, snow-white cloud-bank lent a shading to
the moon
I was resting (this was youth-time) and I dozed into a
dream
Of the stars. I had selected one that seemed to me the
best.
Lightly touched it, then saw others seeming brighter and
more fair;
Chose another and another—'tv/as the same with all the
rest.
Till at last, as if in answer to a feebly-muttered prayer,
One I found that kept my fancy long enough to work its
fall,
For I held it till it tarnished and its glitter all was gone;
Then the pleasure of the star-chase turned to wormwood
and to gall,
And I left it for the darkness there to wander on and on.
Ah 1 I’ve lived that star-chase over in the days long since
gone by,
Where the stars were women fairer than those dream
stars of the sky.
N.B.W,
DIK.


SPECTACLES
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
, ~.. dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, ourmarvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
_By its use you can Test your own sight and de-
ermine for yourself the style and quality- of the
as ses you may need. Write for it to—
Ho A* BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
383 Qeorge-at., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
is
*6S§
I~||~
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from Georga-streeb
or King street, Sydney.*
SILVER STAR STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
BILE BEANS
-OOSNESS . LIVER
anp * Troubles.
• sb ?P eless idea that “ Chancery ”
i s filled with millions and millions of unclaimed
wealth is responsible for a lot of silliness, insanity
and imposture. “Chancery” is large, formless
atmospheric, and mostly a myth. Every now and
then a report appears that Samuel Ferguson or
John Jones has discovered himself to be the heir
to £l, that has lain in Chancery for ages
and is about to sail for England to enjoy his
h t V Vnu ly been two BU dden heirs
to 000,000 each of Chancery money in N.S.W
alone. And the public, which can’t get the fact
into its thick head that there is not enough un-
claimed money in Chancery to be worth talking
about, takes these yarns very seriously indeed!
A man who alleged that he was one of the
recent N.S.W. legatees, an alleged baronet, who
presented the outward appearance of being a
rather shabby laborer aged 65, and who was,
on his own showing, “ coining in for £l,OOO 000 ”
has just been committed for trial on a charge of
getting .£l4 by false pretences. lender, a
Brisbane plumber, was persuaded that he was a
near relative of the prospective millionaire, and
says that the following badly-written “procla-
mation, decorated with a square and compass,
was what he got in return for nis money: ’
12th February, 1903.—Know ye all men that John Gari-
baldi Newton is my own first cousin. I knew him the
moment I saw him. I knew he was a Newton. . . . He
shall share the great fortune that is mine with me.' lam
his ever loving cousin, Wm. Henry Hamilton Newton
tenth baronet of the Arundel of Warder.
The “baronet of the Arundel of Warder” sounds
extraordinary enough.
* * * .
Judge Docker (N.S.W.) joined in the
mania for judicial obiter dicta, for which an
appallingly hot summer, or something of that
sort, is probably responsible, with these remarks
at Orange the other day :
He was told that the Australians in South Africa were
the most inveterate thieves. In one town after the Aus-
tralians had left for South Africa he found that there
were no cases set down for trial, and on inquiry of the
police as to the cause, he was told that “ all the criminal
had gone to the war.”
Which was a cold truth and—seeing that it was
uttered in sentencing a returned cohentingenter—
really not out of place. But it has given grave
offence in some quarters, where the men who
nobly went forth to burn the Boer’s farm and
steal the Boer’s cow are still regarded as
“ heroes ” ; and it is the business of a judge to
avoid giving unnecessary offence. He has to be
beastly offensive to a good many people, when
sending them to gaol, and should confine himself
strictly to the inevitable unpleasantness of such
occasions: there is no sense in going out in search
of extra unpleasantness
• • * •
Despite all the laws to legalise marriage
with a deceased wife’s sister, the deceased hus-
band’s brother remains just as much outside the
pale as ever. A very rare case has just been heard
in Ballarat, where a lady applied for an order of
nullity of marriage. In March, 1896, her first
husband died, and in November of the same year
she was married in haste to his younger brother.
The latter gentleman’s disappearance made her
feel that she was tired of that family, and the
court annulled the marriage as one made inside
the forbidden relation limit. As a matter of fact
there is no real demand for a Deceased Husband’s
Brother Bill. Either the lady doesn’t want to
marry the brother, or the brother won’t have the
lady at any price. Yet the widower’s desire to
marry his late wife s younger sister is an emotion
that seems to pervade every white race. Nobody,
by the way, hears of him rushing her elder sister.
EXPLICIT.
LADY HELP (to her friend): “Them’s our two
daughters. The one with the ruff’s the
MARRIED one. She ought to he looking as she
might have looked if she hadn’t looked the
way she does, poor dear.”
The natives of Cook group apparently like
to sample a new toy. When Col. Gudgeon visited
Aitutaki lately he found a large number of divorce
causes awaiting adjudication. The fee for un-
coupling was 225. 6d., and after having paid this
for the pleasure of figuring in the court —an ex-
perience that will provide them with food for
gossip for years to come—a great many couples
re-married within an hour or two. Of course
there were a number of genuine and permanent
cases.
C.N. ’ : Lovely woman isn’t always
so idiotic as to risk human life through any
false modesty. Last year I was one of a
small picnic party at Sandringham (Vic.),
where the mixed bathing is, and, while
lunching on the sands, noticed a party of
girls a few yards away enter the scrub to
don their bathing dresses. Three of the
party had entered the water and were
rolling in the shallows when wild screams
came from the ti-tree, and the balance of
the bathers dashed out into the open
“ mid nodings on,” bawling lustily for
assistance. Apparently frenzied, they
turned to our party, and in a couple of
seconds were standing among us, all talking
at once and gesticulating wildly. It took
a full minute to grasp the fact that they
desired to save their companions in the
water from being deyoured by a shark
which, they alleged, was swimming around
them. Another minute elapsed before the
supposed shark revealed the fact that it
was a porpoise, and it was not until the
• trio were convinced that the porpoise was
harmless that they looked at one another
and suddenly realised that they were naked
and, up to that moment, unashamed.
Then, with the usual interpretation that
woman puts upon modesty, they covered
their faces with their hands and fled for the
scrub.
Premier Barton has advised the Gov.-
General that he cannot appoint a royal commis-
sion to inquire into Cardinal Moran’s Samoan
statements —that is the privilege of the Imperial
Government. But why should anyone want to
inquire into that foolish and unmannerly mud-
slinging? Sufficient unto the day is the mud
thereof.
• * * •
“R.A.K.” : Strayed into the back seat of
a Melbourne church, Sunday night. Parson was
trying to impress on a comfortable, well-taken-
care-of crowd that, although the Almighty has the
whole Universe, with its countless worlds and
peoples on His mind, He also has each one of us
under His particular care at the same time, and
can busy Himself about such infinitesimal details
as our individual He illustrated his
remark by saying:
Take the case of men with mighty brains, like Napoleon
and Mr. Chamberlain, for instance. They can plan a
campaign and attend to the minutest detail (or arrange-
ment) at the same time. So it is with the Almighty,
etc., etc.
And there’s been no prosecution for blasphemy !
Something in favor of
“slaveydom” J At a country
public school, t’other day, in
response to an inquiry as to
“what occupation you would
like,” a youthful female para-
lysed the inspector with this: “Would like
to be a general servant. I could go out then ot
an evening and I could walk up and down the
street on a Saturday night with whoever I liked,
because I would be away from home and my
mother would have no control over me.” Fact.
* • * *
The verdict in the Eurimbla-Wakatipu
collision case went dead against the Eurimbla
(the outward-bound vessel), as was anticipated
from the start. Various remedies for averting
collisions such as this in Sydney harbor have been
put forward, including a scheme, alleged to be
O’Sullivan’s, to bodily remove Bradley’s Head.
But the fact remains that no rule of the road,
however perfect in conception, can avert accidents
when its interpretation rests on human agency.
The interlocking gear of the railway system is
mechanically perfect, yet an engine-driver now
and then, as in the Redfern disaster, forgets all
about the rules, and in some unaccountable
manner wrecks his train. Thero are collisions at
times even in the open sea, when the two ships
have all the available space between Chili and
Australia to dodge in, and if Chili and Australia
were both dug up and removed to make more
room there would be collisions still. Even the
Ark, which wasn’t crowded up by shipping,
collided with Mount Ararat.
• * • *
The Delhi Durbar, that cruel and vulgar
pageant which was inflicted on famine-stricken
and plague-infested India, cost the Indian
Government nearly £1,000,000. The bills to be met
by the various native princes sharing in the
barbaric spectacle ranged from £lO,OOO to £lOO,OOO
apiece (the latter sum was spent by the Nizam of
Hyderabad ; £lO,OOO supplied but a poorshow for
a Begum, Raja, Khan, Jain, Bang, Sneeze, Snore,
Ras, Maharao, Holkar, Nawab, Maharaja,
Akhoond, or other weirdly-named potentates).
The total cost probably ran to several millions.
IN DOUBT.
COUSIN TOTTIE: “ What’s up, Maggie! Why so
pensive?”
COUSIN MAGGIE: “ Stanley’s given me up, and
I’m wondering whether I’ll go into a convent
or a bar.”
And, withal, the best that could be said 01 the
show by London Express was “Barnum out-
done.” There were cannons of gold (alleged), and
bands of penny tin-whistles, dancing horses
painted scarlet, men in chain armor and elastic-
side boots, Noah’s Arks, performing elephants,
and so on. One loyal Australian who attended
the circus found atonement for all disappoint-
ments in the fact that he was able, for one brief
moment, to lie on the bed which King Ned once
slept in when visiting India !
* » * •
A tall, greasy-looking gentleman, with
long hair, a flowing robe, and wearing on his head
an arrangement like an artistic waste-paper-
basket, recently descended on Maoriland in search
of subscriptions to maintain a number of Arme-
nian orphans whose parents had been butchered
in the horrors of some few years back, when
Abdul the Damned was a little worse than usual
—if such a thing can be. Later, however, it
leaked out that the total amount the reverend one
had remitted was £96, and in reply to indignant
demands as to where all the rest had gone, he
smiled a Christian smile, and, crossing his hands,
humbly explained that he only sent Sunday’s
collections to maintain the orphans. The money
collected through the week he used to maintain
his parents and to provide for his own old age.
Maoriland subscribers now begin almost to sym-
pathise with Abdul the Damned —the potentate
with the huge beak, and the long horse coun-
tenance, and the criminal ears, and the terrified
eyes, and the look of one who is Lost before his
time.
• * • •
Significant newspaper item from Mel-
bourne :
His Honor (Chief Justice Madden) briefly referred to
the criminal features of the prisoner’s career, and con
tinued, “ Ho sooner did you come out of gaol than you
committed three other offences.” The prisoner was then*
sentenced to five years imprisonment with hard labor.
For almost the first time in his life His Honor had
to be brief, for the prisoner had just broken loose
in the dock and cut his throat in four or five
places. But even then His Honor managed, in a
condensed way, to refer to the leading features of
the prisoner’s career, the prisoner being held up
in the dock meanwhile. Evpn if the prisoner had
cut His Honor’s throat as well as his own, The
Bulletin is firmly convinced that the oration
would have been got off somehow. His Honor
would perish at the stake rather than not get off
his oration.
• • • «
“Vul.”: What an inglorious mess the
average woman makes of things when she starts
out in the criminal line ! Melbourne’s lady bur-
glar, who was, t’other day, found guilty on two
charges of house-breaking, provides a case in
point. First, her modus operandi was of the
shoddiest and most transparent description, and
could deceive only a most simple householder.
Then, on being brought"to book, she committed
the further foolishness of defending herself. Her
defence consisted of the time-worn alibi, which
she essayed to uphold with such loose and trans-'
parent lying-that Judge A’Beckett said he felt
much inclined to commit her for perjury. Her
husband had cleared out with another charmer as
soon as his lawful wife was arrested. Altogether
—though she’ll doubtless repudiate the suggestion
with scorn —woman isn’t a success at living by her
alleged wits, and had much better stick to her old
occupation of spanking Tommy and cooking the
old man’s dinner for a while vet.
'* J.A.C.” : He “ 6 x B’s ” par. (B
21/2/’O3) about the Gippsland (Vio.) girl who,
because she was “ afraid to be seen naked,” let her
■sister drown. Very different was the behavior of
a young Maonland girl, as related to me by an
Auckland friend. One hot summer’s day he was
■with a party of picknickers on an islet in the
Hauraki Gulf, and two of the girls, separating
themselves from the others, went to bathe in a
small inlet. One of them got out of her depth
and was drowning, when the other, seeing that
she could render no assistance, ran, in the “alto-
gether as she was, to her companions for help,
with the result that the drowning girl was rescued.
Her friends voted her a heroine—and so she was.
* * • *
The latest S.A. tragedy is almost as sordid
as its immediate predecessor. Once more a man
past 80 years of age has been done to death, it is
alleged, for the sake of his money. Unlike the
victim of the Stirling murder, he was a reputable
farmer, and the worst fault that could have been
urged against him is that he had married three
times. He seemed to have got a good wife on
each occasion, too. The scene was Penwortham,
near the pretty town of Clare, which sent Trades
Minister Kingston’s father to Parliament half-a-
century ago. Joseph Ninnes was supposed to
have been burnt to death and economy is so ram-
pant in the Wheat State that he was buried with-
out an inquest. But rumors of foul play became
prevalent, and on Feb. 17 (12 days after his death)
JL)r. Ramsay Smith went up to Clare, had the body
dug up, and made a post mortem examination,
which proved nothing. But the story as well as
the body was stirred up, and quite a number of
weird side issues began to crawl, worm-fashion,
into the case.
* • * *
The fuss about Bible-burning in Fiji,
which is being so industriously raised by some of
the religious leaders in Australia, must amuse
such of the world’s heathen as are capable of
undo" ending the position. Whether the Fijian
natives burned Bibles and took rosary-beads to
their bosoms, or burned beads and enthroned
Bibles as their fetishes, is not quite clear; seldom
is anything quite clear in a sectarian controversy,
because otherwise estimable and upright men lose
their heads and their mental balance, and become
frantic and irresponsible asserters of anything
and everything, when a religious question is
on deck. . But what does seem to be true
—for it is alleged from both sides—is that
the . conversion ” of Fijian tribes to Chris-
tianity- is a matter of political (or other) nego-
tiation with the chiefs. rA black buck chief
nros short of rum, or of beads, or of decorations
’'for his harem (if he has one), or whatever the
heathen in his blindness most desires, and he deals
with the missionaries for the religion of himself
and tribe. The fact that there is more than one
brand of missionary competing in the market
tends to raise the price of a tribe’s adherence. 1 f
he can’t deal on satisfactory terms with the
Methodists he has the Roman Catholics and the
Seventh Day Adventists to fall back on. So a
chief who is desperately short of beads, or bear’s
grease for his head, sells himself and his whole
tribe to a new church, unless the church which
has already purchased him will come down with
more bear’s grease in order to retain him.
A CHEERLESS QUESTION.
THE GENTLE SHEPHERD : “ Dear brother, do you
expect to die? ”
PUBLIC-HOUSE KEEPER : “ I wasn’t thinkin’ about
it just then; was you?”
Ib was at the cricket-match, their first
appearance after the honeymoon. She sat down
with a frou-frou of swishing skirts ; he parted his
coat-tails and did likewise
She: “Are you comfortable, dearie?” He: "Yes,
darling.” She : “Oh ! look, dearie ; there’s Mrs. Yates.”
He : “ Where, darling?” She : “Oh, look at the men
chasing each other 1” He: “Yes, darling; they’re
making runs. Are you comfortable ? ” She : “ How d'ye
do! Dearie, you didn’t bow to the Carters.” He:
“ Great Scott! ” She: “Mr. Scott—where ? ” He:
“Goit 1 ” She : “ What, dearie ! —why don’t you talk?”
He : “A fourer ! ” She : “What’s a'fourer ” He :
“Another fourer!” She : “Look, dearie, there’s Mr.
and Mrs. Cajcot ; they’re just back from their honey-
moon, too—why they haven’t been away a week ! Thev
were married after us ; and her hat” He : “Out!”
She : “ I’m sure her sister trimmed ” He : “ Who’s
the next man?” She : "I’m sure her sister trimmed 1
that” He “No ball! ” She Her sister trimmed
that” He : “Ha ! that was a close shave.” She :
“Trimmed that hat.” He : “ Bray ought to pile up the
runs.” She : “Ought he?” He :“ Played ! ” She:
“ Dearie, I’ve dropped my glove.” He : “ Another
fourer! This is getting exciting.” She :“ I think we’ll
go, dearie—this is too dull.” He (trying to look
pleasant) : “ Very'well—darling.”
TO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Song, due for graver goal, delays
A restful hour with you.
Its will to thread the whirlwind ways
Of clouded Freedom's might, it stays.
Your perfumed lips subdue
To wistful moments, treason sweet,
Its sombre wings and iron feet.
My mistress Freedom’s eyes are blue,
While yours are midnight’s glass ;
To her I could not be so true,
Were I not sometimes false with you,
Who gifts with love’s cuirass,
For war ’gainst Freedom’s infidels,
A mere ascetic of her cells.
ALCHERINOA.
THE INFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I knew the first night, dearest,
When you were sitting there,
I knew by lots of signs, dear,
The darling man you were ;
The length of time you fondled
The little bunch of flowers ;
And when I brought the album
You nursed it close for hours.
Then when I pointed out, love,
My doggie’s silky charms,
You let him nestle snugly
A long time in your arms ;
You then held little Willie
So nice upon your knee—
These little signs told plainly
You’d soon be holding me.
ALONE.


f=W" In the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS ,nTT ■ ™
KLEINERT’S HOOKON
is the only Q orrec j. Hose Supporter
To Wear with the NEW FORM CORSET.
Sold only at the Best Shops.
M,i. J. SPENCER N iLAN, R.D.S.,
DE STAU SURGEON, 43 Oxford-st., Sydney
(between Mark Foy’s and Riley-st.). HIGH-CLASS
I'E.VTI.STRY at lowest prices. Guaranteed absolutely painless extractions by latest American system—a great
success. Beautiful and perfect-fitting atmospheric suction sets of American teeth, giving the wearer ease,
comfort and natural appearance. Coraline gum plates, without springs or wires. Elastic Gum Coraline is the
most recent, up-to-date plate for mounting teeth. All wrinkles and hollow cheeks disappear. It is so natural
that it defies detection. For comfort, strength and lightness it surpasses everything previously introduced.
Coraline is perfectly tasteless, and remains wholesome and pure. Badly fitting plates remodelled on this new
system. Up-to-date gold crowns. Call and see specimens of latest methods. Upper and lower sets from £1 Is.
Single tee.h from 58. Teeth filled, scaled and bleached. Country visitors fitted in one day if required.
O Nl.y
c
*
Few men have a better knowledge of the-
working of the Lands Acts than has Land Agent
W. N. Willis of 21 Bligh-street. Payment by
results is not only reasonable but also novel.*
Yet another strike has occurred among'
Brisbane tailoresses. As for the reason, here ra-
the table of wages:—
Under Flannels
Bovs’ Shirts .. .. ».
Men’s shirts, cuffs, pockets ..
Men’s shirts, mantle seams ...
Pyjamas, single-stiched
Pyjamas, double-stitched
Cuffs
1 7 per dozen-
-1 7
1 10
2 0
4 6
6 2
0 7
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold By
all chemists throughout Australasia Not genuine -
without the signature. Be sure you get MartinV
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical*
chemist, Southampton, England.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away'
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dU'
figurements. Sulpha me developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
To-day (Thursday) is the centenary of the 1
Sydney Gazette and New South Wales Adver-
tiser, the first paper published on this continent
since the subsidence of Lemuria broke up the
Atlantean printing presses in the days when
Adam was young. It was the sth of March, 1803,
that a most deplorable sheet, printed on grocer’s
wrapping-paper, made its first appearance, and for
20 years it wriggled under the broad, heavy,
ignorant thumb of official censorship. By some
remarkable accident, the origin of which will
always remain a profound mystery, the editor was
not a convict. His descendants have suffered
accordingly. He seems, however, to have suffered
a worse fate. He was his own reporter; he col-
lected his own advertisements, set up the type,
worked off the 200 copies that made up his limited
circulation, delivered them personally, and spent
his few remaining moments of wakefulness trying
to collect from the subscribers the few pence that
enabled him to buy lamp black for ink and the
grocer’s wrapping-paper with which to let the
gossips know that the Governor insisted on them
keeping their pigs out of the Tank Stream, The
name of this martyr was George Howe. The
name deserves to be rescued from oblivion at least
once in a century. m
Cut this out and forward it, together with two
shillings and (nine pence postage) to The Koko Maricopas
Co., Ltd., Australasian dept., Dean’s Place, Sydney, and
we will send you by return post a 4s. 6d. bottle of our
famous “ Koko for the Hair.” Our object in letting you
have a 4s. 6d. bottle for 2s. is to gain your continual
custom, which we can be sure of, once you have tried
Koko. Never has a hair preparation obtained such
flattering testimonials as Koko has received. We will
send you copies on application. Koko can be obtained
of all chemists and stores at Is., 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per
bottle.*
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable
Recommended by “ Lancet.”
J. MoBRATNEY (Wholesale only),
321 Flinders Lane, Melb. 389 Georye-st., Sydney.
s
Dress Fabriss
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
VARNISHED BOARDj
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, March 3, 1903.
Mt Dear Arini,—
Hobart is an Elysian field for the young bachelor.
The girls exalt him in reverence, give him picnics
and dances and afternoon teas, and consider him
and his pocket to such an extent that they won’t let
him even pay a tram fare for them. The con-
sequence is he soon gets a head as big as Mount
Wellington. I heard of a typical picnic lately.
A lot of girls invited an equal number of young
men. Girls all went but in a body to the picnic
spot, making baggage-mules of themselves; the
men followed half-an-hour or so later, and found
not only the billy-fires going, but that the host-
esses had all had lunch ana were ready to wait
on the lordly men.
Winter after winter the same set of men go to
dances got up by girls, and go home with the girls
to sample their papas’ distilled grain, and never
give a return hop or even take their young
hostesses to afternoon tea. There hasn’t been
a bachelor’s dance for many years. I was
several time 3 into the “fashionable” tea-room
of Hobart—one small room —and so marked
was the absence of men that I asked if males were
debarred from entering. My hostess, of the hour,
explained that men had no need to spend an
orange Pekoe sixpence on girls in Hobart. Girls
were waiting 10 deep in pretty drawing-rooms, in
Srettier suburban gardens, quite satisfied if only
,eggie and Jack would eat and drink and be
amused at their expense. And Reggie and Jack
are never asked for a subscription or commanded
to buy tickets for this and that frolic or charity as
in Melbourne or Sydney. “O, for goodntsi sake
don’t put the men to any expense—if you do they
won’t come again,” that’s a constant exclamation.
The pathos of it 1
Another Hobart hostess of an hour told me that
of eight men who had dined with her about Xmas
time only one had paid his dinner call. One youth
who was suffering mild reproaches from a damsel
for not keeping a Sunday musical evening
appointment languidly turned on her with “Yes,
I know I promised, but that was a week ago.
You shoula have kept me up to the mark by tele-
phoning or writing. I’ll always come if I'm
nailed."
These surfeited-with-too-much-attention persons
are not all born Hobartians, you know. The
majority are from Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne,
and other places. They go to the island as average
modest dogs, and generous according to their
means, but a few months in Hobart turns them
into—well, they turn pupmatic. The girls com-
plain bitterly of their demeanor and meanness but
the apotheosis of Jack and Reggie continues, so
they nave only themselves to blame.
I attended the most important “drawing-
room” in Australia—saw Tattersall’s drawing for
the Newmarket Handicap. I wanted to get at
the bottom of the roguery that did me out of the
first prize on the two occasions on which I have
put five shillings into the sweeps. But it was all
wearisomely honest and simple. A huge barrel-
like machine containing 100,000 marbles. The
straps around it were sealed with the huge red
seal of the Tasmanian Treasurer. The keys were
in an envelope also officially sealed, and a Treasury
officer was present to break the bonds. Mr.
George Adams, the captain of the industry—
“ King of Hobart,” as he is called —stood in the
background watching the drawing. He greatly
resembles Carnegie. A strong-necked, strong-
eared man, of few words, with grey hair, still
abundant, that won’t be brushed flat, but bristles
erect as if ready for action. He and his wife now
live chronically in Hobart —atHighfield Hall, one
of the hotels whieh he owns. It is difficult to
stumble into an hotel or swell boarding-house in
Hobart which G.A. does not own.
The Austrian Royal family seems to be
ad lioted to a sort of social democracy. It is
always causing a “scandal” in court circles by
radical marriages. A complete list of the lapses
from royal hauteur by this generation of the
Hapaburgs:
The Archduke Ferdinand secretly married Philippine
Welser, a lady not of royal rank.—Archduke John married
Anna Plochal, daughter of a post-official. This lady was
afterwards raised to the peerage as Countess von Aleran.
—Archduke Henry married Leopoldine Hofmann, an
actress, who afterwards was created Baroness von
Waldeck.—Archduke Ernest secretly married a woman of
humble origin. His son, Baron von Wallburg, is now
the head waiter at a caf6 at Budapest.—Archduke John
Salvador (John Orth) married a dancer, Emily Stabel.
Both are supposed to have perished at sea.—Archduke
Ferdinand, heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, married
Countess Sophie Chotek, one of the Court ladies—
Princess Elizabeth married Baron Seefried, and Crown
Princess Stephanie married Count Lonyay (from whom
she has been separated.)
A humorous sight at Manly, the other morning,
was a very large journalist escorting a much
smaller journalist (in an abbreviated bathing-suit)
up and down the beach, looking for the latter’s
clothes. The smaller journalist had been courting
the rippling, glistening wavelets and composing
great thoughts in the water when he suddenly
came to—to find it was robing time and he had for-
gotten where he had placed his un-poetic outer
garments. Then he held counsel with his large
contemporary, and a mighty search commenced.
The situation was saved by a lady squeaking
“oh !” and jumping up and flying off the beach.
She had been draining herself on the pressman’s
Sunday suit.
Consequent on a proposal to turn the old
Exhibition Building in Prince Alfred Park,
Sydney, into municipal swimming an
examination has been made of the place, with the
result that it has been found to be nearly past use
through attacks of white ants. After the non-
success of the Natatorium in Pitt St. and other
similar ventures, Sydney City Council would be
ill advised to start more baths on such lines.
The clean fresh open sea, where the prawn and
the shark and the squid are, is the real place for
swimming baths, and surely there is enough
accessible foreshore.
A lady writes this, to all appearance quite
seriously :
Mothers make a mistake in expecting their girls to
make a good match by meeting the man, becoming en-
gaged, and married in the space of a few years, say from
20 to 23. Up to the time girls are verging on 20 mothers
will not speak to their daughters nor hear anything from
them concerning this very important subject. I believe
that, when a schoolgirl, of say 15 or 16, attracts the
attention of a boy a year or two older, that is the time
for her mother to make the fullest inquiries as to his
character and future prospects (taking care she does not
go to his mother for the information), and, if the boy is
likely to be worth following up, the girl’s mother should
do all she can to keep him hovering round her daughter.
This is (fhe mother's duty at such an early stage of her
daughter’s career, as the boy must not be seared away by
a girl’s forward advances. I have two girls, just begun
school-life, and my present intention is to start match-
making on their account as soon as they leave. In fact, I
have one or two nice little boys in my mind’s eye already,
whose parents are a guarantee that their sons will turn
out all right.
Alas for man; is he not to enjoy a close season
fromsporting mammas even in his tender boyhood ?
The London Hartopp divorce case wasn’t
without a special Australian interest. One
of the many fair dames who figuied, beauti-
fully dressed, in the witness-box was well-
known in Sydney, especially in theatrical
circles. She lived here unostentatiously, if not
rigorously, for some years, and as the lady’s family
belongs to London’s smart set, was able to supply
society with choice bits of gossip from the cold
country. The lady is an Imperial pensioner, for
military services rendered by her late lamented
papa, who was a general.
To-day, Saturday, at 2.30 p.m., Miss Mary
Robinson will give the first of her monthly piano
recitals at “Minnesota,” Johnston-st., Annan-
dale, Sydney. Misses Maud Dairymple, Julia
Davis, Annie Perry, and Messrs. Robyns and
Lewis Scott will lift up their fine voices in solos
and duets when the piano is taking a well-earned
rest.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Flemington meeting on Saturday might have
been a Cup week aftermath. Same warmth, same
crisp lawn, same clothes —nothing new. The
boldest dared not drag out an autumn novelty
to blister (as friezes do blister) in the sun.
Dress competition was limp. The two returned
giobe-trotters, Mrs. Andrew Chirnside and Mrs.
Fred Payne, showed two remarkable rig-outs.
Mrs. Chirnside’s was cream lustrous silk, spread-
ing into a two-decker skirt, as contrast to a tomato-
red velvet Zouave of blinking brilliancy. Touches
in the same fruit tone were introduced wherever
necessary. Mrs. Fred Payne’s somewhat similar
outfit showed up the finer for its delicate tones—
lilac and deep cream, the brighter color forming
the top-tier ; it was banked up at the shoulders by
a sparkling ruffle of frosted chiffon.
“Big John Forrest sported a tender silver-grey
top hat at the meeting. The Western blazes and
picnic-sprees have reduced his girth a degree or
two, and the coat that once met just half-way
across his commissariat now buttons bravely.
He stepped out like a spirited old gander, and
turned special blandishments on the daughter and
niece of Treasurer Turner, telling them the after-
noon tea-gossip of the Western States.
“ Miss Cynthia Brooke’s chiffons were rich. An
extra cascade formed a lengthy finish to the back
of an impressive millinery structure. The exi
treme in wide effects was realised by the much
pouched and voluminous gown. Turquoise
jewels had something to say in securing the result
of a charming lace frontage. Mrs. Norman
Menzies shook ner little mop of fair hair under a
wispish French toque. George Lauri and his wife
were one of the most solemn-visaged couples on
the Terrace strut.
“Dolores sang on Saturday night to an extra
smart audience in the most becoming garb she has
yet worn on the Melbourne platform—a cream
soft silk allowing of a little pink frivolity in the
Yandyck skirt incisions. The outline of the
figure was clearly defined, the usual tawdry and
bizarre trimmings being mercifully abolished.
Elbow sleeves were so built as to add length, and
yet leave the figure its shapeliness. It made a
new, delightful, up-to-date Dolores, and she
scored better results than ever. In the audience
the fragile Mrs. Frank Clarke set off her pretti-
ness by entire black mountings. Mrs. Willie
Manifold, also black-garbed, looked nevertheless
bright and frolicsome. Mrs. Edward Miller wore
an extraordinary powder-pink cloak of great cost-
liness, with a tall Medici collar that kept the
already lofty head of the matron on a swan-
stretch.
“ A comic feature of the she-suffragists’ meet-
ing at the Town Hall on Friday night was Miss
Vida Goldstein’s downrightness. She voiced, in
strong terms, her surprise and disgust at the
feeble espousal of The Cause by the individuals
who had preceded her. There was too little blood
and thunder in their attack for her taste. The
audience looked at the limp figure of Demosthenes
Trenwith, who still labored with his breath after,
his thunderous howl for The Cause, and who
mopped his beaded brow continously, and
wondered however the young feminine fire-eater
could find it in her heart to reproach an exhausted
man under such circumstances. The crisp, curt
style of speech adopted by Miss Goldstein since
her globe-trot in America, threatens to develop
into permanent acidity. But her points are often
well taken. The 'effete body’ of the Upper
House came in for wrath, and Mr. Nicholas Fitz-
gerald suffered in particular. That silly old
politician, said the lady, ‘ revelled in a particu-
larly appropriate name, Nick-or-less.’ And she
referred to the ‘dirty work* of the ‘Upper
House, ’ and divided the women non-voters into
three classes—fashionable women, ignorant
women, and—emphatically—bad women.
“ The naicest women the State boasts are pro-
moting a Gymkhana this week. Polo supporters
are mostly garnered from the wool and cash ranks.
Recently Kooyong course was purchased, and the
inclusion of the 16 leading horsewomen of the
State in the Gymkhana lists should assure a
fashionable attendance. Mrs. Everard Browne
returns to the saddle to compete in one race. So
far, Toorak backs Miss Betty McMullen —a fine
young rider, famed for the dash, pluck, and bold-
ness, of the Brush clan. Black-eyed Mrs. McMullen
was a Brush.
“Bishop Clarke makes his first professional
appearance in Melbourne next Sunday, at the
shabby, old St James’s Church, where his three
predecessors preached their introductory sermons.
Probably this will be the last time but one when
the verger will turn money away from the doors
of Melbourne’s Anglican pro-Catnedral. Only on
such special occasions do more than a handful of
people gather together to acknowledge their sins
in Little Collins-street. The decayed tabernacle
is spiritually dead. It stands on valuable ground,
and Bishop Clarke will (D.V.) live to see it
deconsecrated and converted to godless business
purposes. On that solemn last day the original
episcopal throne of Bishop Perry will be removed
from the St. James’s sanctuary, and presently
the crypt will expand into a spacious cellar where
the new proprietor will store liquor.
“ A little lot of believers, including two bridal
pairs, who are making it a honeymoon trip, set
off from Victoria last week to join Prophet
Elijah Dowie’s community of Zionites. The new
city of Zion threatens to fall into liquidation
before these fatuous disciples of the nubbly-headed
Prophet arrive upon the scene. Dowie, at latest
dates, was beset by workmen shrieking for their
pay. Presumably there is a certain amount of
building material still in hand, but the laborers
can get no more cash from Elijah D. His pro-
mised city was to be built upon a foundation of
‘tick,’ which is a good practical expression of
Faith, anyhow. If Elijah’s ‘tick’ is exhausted,
the Zionic Faith has evidently gone bung.
“Vapour baths have been added to oertain
massage parlors, so the female beautification pro-
cess begins to extend below the Plimsoll mark.
One wonders if the male client will follow suit.
He already takes kindly to face massage and nail-
polish. One point of grace the popular masseuse
accords to her man client, and that is cleanliness.
He comes, freshly-tubbed, for his finishing bloom.
He glows healthfully after an hour s massage
treatment. The she-client, on the other hand,
lets grease and molecules accumulate, and pre-
sents a neck motley from hair-dye effects. Her
massage includes a large amount of plain wash,
before the more delicate instruments of the toilet
are resorted to.
“ The Pursey Ohirnsides followed the rest of
their clan homewards last week. With their
consignment of children, nurses and maids, they
made the most imposing family group on board
the India. The departure of several Society folk
swelled the gangway The parting kiss between
smart friends grows obsolete. At the anchor-
weighing of the India the most careless ‘ Ta-ta ’
marked the farewell of good-fellowship.
“ A French cartoonist, garnering grist for Paris,
was much impressed with Yes-No Reid. On the
sea-voyage from Westralia he did a little private
snap-shotting. One day, as George snored in the
Summer noon, and the musical mouth dropped
into the rounded proportions of a ping-pong ball,
the artist took up a position for camera attack,
' when the wife of the slumberer sounded the note
of alarm . ‘ They are taking a mean advantage.
It isn’t fair. They’re taking you asleep, George.’
The ‘ old bird ’ gave an aggrieved look, shook his
fat head in reproach, and fell softly asleep again.
His, troubles ! For a comic politician whose
living depends on being comic, the best thing
is to be as comic as possible.
* Melbourne Society lose one of its most sen-
sible, intelligent, and bountiful members by Mrs.
Sargood’s departure to the Big Smoke. Always
quiet in her style of dressing, always plain and
simple in her manner, she made no bid for
supremacy in dross ostentation, but was a
strong, steady ruler of a smart set. She did good
turns to many poorer society friends. There are
ever so many fine acts recorded to her honor.
“A R.C. religious order is likely to be a bidder
for Rippon Lea if that extensive establishment
comes under the hammer.
“ In the big ‘ Geisha ’ audience smart folk were
few an I far between. Miss Beatrice Smith wore
her dark masses of hair built up over a colossal
frame. This, the latest, is not to be had in Mel-
bourne at present, so every recent voyager has
been requisitioned to mail one from Paris. The
hair shops will soon swarm with this line. It all
helps in the general ‘ blow-out ’ effect of the 1903
flutterer. She is even wearing shoes two sizes
over large, and has to stuff the nib-shaped toes
with wadding.
“There was not much to wonder at in a recent
case of imposture on a Collins-st. dress-builder;
so much credit is given the smart bride-elect. A
penniless bride can clinch a good bargain with the
dress-monger if only she can supply credentials
that the spouse-elect is a man of substance. The
system of post payment is so arranged as to allow
of a gradual settlement of the bill, on the agree*
raent of continued custom. Also the impoverished
bride-elect can secure goods cheaper on the pro-
mise of patronage when she is Mrs. Dives. There
was nothing startlingly novel in the smart swindler
ordering an expensive trousseau on the strength
of an imaginary wedding to come.
“ Strange effects are to be seen, this Autumn,
in velvet and felt combination—mostly in millin-
ery. A hussar cap, broader than the original
military mount, comes into vogue. Altogether,
harder and severer styles of hat are to prevail
than heretofore. In the department of dresses,
pouched fronts hold good. So do the wide-open-
ing ecclesiastic sleeves, and the elevated hips.
These are to be attained, in lieu of natural
provision, by pneuniatio pads or homelier frills of
stiff muslin. In frocks the joinings that once
aimed at concealment now invite attention by
heavy strappings. Fantastic buttons do nothing
but decorate. Hooks and eyes do the real work-
in concealment. The round skirt, affording plenti
ful knee room, spans out into a train that, caught-
up the directed way, does not interfere with the;
hang of the article.
“At the Durbar, as at our own de&uf-of-the*
Commonwealth show, officials and their con-
nections had all the best of it. Wealth per se or
social prestige, unsupported by official standing orr
representative position, failed to score. Better on,
such occasions to be a Federal frump, or even a.
municipal marm than merely a wealthy wool-
queen or high-stepping smart-setter. This ex-
plains why some of the Australians at the Durbar
enjoyed themselves so much more than others.
Miss Ruby Madden, as daughter of Victoria’s
C.-J. and sometime Acting-Governor, put in her
Delhi time in ‘ Lord Kitchener’s Camp,’ regarded,
as the choicest site for Government guests, except,,
perhaps, the Viceroy’s diggings. On the other-
hand, our only Bart.’s wife, step-sister and sister-
in-law were glad to find a niche in an hotel or im
tents in the hotel garden. Some of the local;
smartest wax very eloquent on these little dis-
crepancies. Said a relative of one of the allegedl
sufferers; ‘PoorZ ! So far as that wretched
Durbar goes, she’d have been better off as the wife,
of the member for Cockroach Flat than she is as a
baronet’s lady. Inexcusable of him not to have-
gone into Parliament! ’
“In * The Christian,’ at the Bijou, Maud Wil-
liamson makes Glory fjuayle a bright, winsome,,
natural sort of girl, not overburdened with chic-
clothes. Woods, as Parson Storm, seems as if he
would be the curse of the play, at first, in his-,
worldly suit of unbecoming white. He looks such a
plump, Semitic prig, and poses every two seconds;
in shocked attitudes, which don’t match a scrap*
with his flesh-potter’s face. However, as the*
stormy parson, m black, whose earnestness out-
weighs his absurdity, Wood’s ‘ Storm ’ is a fine bit
of work. There’s more interest and life in it than,
in Tyrone Power’s large, reposeful, dull series of'
attitudes in John Storm attire.
“ Lecturer Darnley Naylor, who is likened by
his University devotees to the late Charles.
Ryley, has returned, after a jaunt abroad, with
ambitious ideas of staging more Greek drama, at.
Ormond, this year.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


BILIOUS AND BACKACHY.
This is the sultry season when you grow lazy and livery-drowsy and dyspeptic-bilious and backachy.
If you are bilious and backachy that is a sure sign that your liver and kidneys are out of order.
Clogged-up kidneys and a lazy liver are common enough this hot weather—but you can’t afford to neglect them a moment.
You need a Tonic-You need Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They actually make new blood. They are the only Tonic Medicine
that will stimulate your liver, strengthen your stomach, stiffen your spine, and drive the deadly poisons from your aching kidneys.
Then, in a week or so, you will have all your old health and energy back again-thanka entirely to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
BILIOUS AND BACKACHY.
“Four rears ago I began to suffer from indigestion,” says Mrs. Sarah Turner, nurse, 224 Young-street, Annan-
, , .. u-i? WmrhtiviHi it biliousness and backache. Often the pains kept me awake all night. The lightest meal
dale, “ which brought «ith it b A morsel of meat stuck in my throat or lay on my chest like a
caused most d stress n p - - ™at mv food and wondered if I dare swallow a mouthful. Want of proper
heavy, Often I could hal ,n v drag myself about. During two long years the
nourishment made me so k hot water Thelt a friend recommended Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills Two boxes
only relief I got was by ta - , former good health Now I eat and sleep well, and am quite free from
[ndigeftionl biliousness, and backache. J Indeed, I am only too pleased to recommend Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to any of
my patients who are suffering as I did.
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney.
2s. 9d. per box; six boxes, 15s. 3d.
Or Williams pink pills for pale people
PERSONAL ITEMS.
James Howard, who, if he lived until
March 5, would (allegedly) have celebrated his
102nd birthday, died at Edi (Vic.) on February 22.
He arrived in Sydney in 1828.
The name of Bullwinkle cropped up in the
customs prosecution of Robert Reid and Co. In
this connection it may also be mentioned that a
citizen named Prigg is mentioned in Sydney
Directory.
The 71st commemoration day of King’s
Schoo l , Parramatta, brought an “old boy ” of
1832 back to memory. Harry Gordon, one of the
three still living men who attended in the first
quarter (the other two are Rev. John Watsford
and Mr. J. S. r utter), attended the anniversary.
A Sydney undertaking firm displays in its
head office window a huge framed portrait of
Chamberlain, lhe man who has done so much
towards the advancement of the corpse-burying
business deserves this appreciation.
Alleged that preacher and faith-healer
“Elijah” Dowie, of the Purple Wings and the
new Zion City and the Zion Bank, is in great
financial difficulties, and that the new sect seems
likely to come down with a run for the want of
sordid cash.
The latest individual to have a memorable
shortage in his cash was, as usual, a zealous Sun-
day-school teacher up to the date of the trouble.
Time is rapidly approaching when a Sunday-
school teacher will only get a job shifting cannons,
or anything else he can’t shift far.
What a savage pen has Owen Seaman, the
London satirist. In an ostensibly sympathetic
poem on the departure of Chamberlain, he traces
his progress down to the docks ; and then :
Shout, for the Screw is beginning to go,
•‘Joseph tor Brummagem ! Brum for her Joe 1 ”
Maoriland papers are getting down to the
bedrock of the personal business, and one “ great
weekly ” solemnly prints a four column picture of
a back view of the Mayor of Christchurch fishing
in. a North Island creek. Probably the next
thing will be a picture of the M ayor of Christ-
church paring his corn, front view.
N.S.W. Justice Simpson is piling up a
judicial record. He has already severely repri-
manded from the Bench Chief Justice Darley,
Cardinal Moran, and the Solicitor-General. If he
can add the scalps of the Anglican Primate and
the Premier, he will have proved his judicial rigor
with impartial offensiveness.
There was a formal protest from, at least,
one influential barrister against Mr. Pollock,
Solicitor-General, appearing at Sydney assizes
this year “to lead the Bar” by virtue of his office.
“ A junior barrister, who even now only earns
£lOOO a year, taking precedence of me," scornfully
snorted one K.C. who used to earn his £lO,OOO a
year, and, perhaps, could do so now if he kept his
neck to the yoke.
EDUCATION IN POLITICS.
S HE: “ But what do they mean by reciprocity?"
HE (the He who isn't her brother): “ Well, sup-
posing I were to kiss you, and then you were
to kiss me, that would be reciprocity .”
SHE: “How nice! Are all politics like that?"
The most frightful outburst ever known
from the Maoriland bench erupted recently when
Judge Conolly discovered that most of the jury
he was addressing were fast asleep. Not till
Tongariro splits in twain and the whole Hot Lake
district sinks in ruin to the depths of somewhere
is anything like it expected again in Maoriland.
R.C. Archbishop Carr, of Melbourne, has
said the most sensible thing we have so far noted
on the Bible-burning controversy :
He denied that the Roman Catholic Church was respon-
gible, even if the books were burnt by a French
missionary, and declared that if the statement in the
telegram was true, which he did not admit, all Catholics
would regret the occurrence.
Dry-dog Reid struck one snag at Kalgoor-
lie. He “went for” Lyne, and said, amongst other
pleasantries: “ Mr. Lyne reminds me of Don
Quixote tilting at windmills, but at tilts
at other things besides windmills. ” Yes,
chipped in an ancient dryblower, he sometimes
tilts at windbags —like yerself an knocks em
badly, too ! ”
“ Melb.” : Fitchett retires from the
Methodist Conference Presidentship in a blaze of
glory and envy. Not long ago a Methodist
clergyman, with a busy charge and apparently
about £5 a week, asked me if I could introduce
him to any newspaper work. “No was the
reply ; “It is my bread, not extra bunco as for
you and Fitchett.” This indicates the mischief
to the Cause, the Holy Cause, through Fitchett
being absorbed in enormous secular business and
transacting his theology with the fag-end of his
mind.
Mr. J. L. Cobb, of Carcoar, who goes to
England after a residence of many years in New
South Wales, is the gentleman who, when coroner,
held the inquest on bank-manager Phillips and
Miss Kavanagh, slaughtered by that exceedingly
futile bank robber, Bertie Glasson who apparently
thought a bank safe could be broken open with a
chopper. On that occasion Cobb told the Jury
that “ the eyes of the civilised world were at that
moment concentrated on the spot where they saL
Carcoar has never quite got its head down to the
old size since.
Dr. Samuel Marsden, first Bishop of
Bathurst (N.S.W.), and grandson of Samuel
Marsden, the second colonial chaplain, used to
relate that, in one of his visitations out back, a
girl on a, station asked him to marry her. The
Bishop inquired the name of her intended hus-
band. She did not know it, but asked the Bishop
to wait until she went and ascertained. They
were casual even in those old days.
Cardinal Moran, in a recent speech, did
himself the mistaken honor of supposing that
Protestants regard him as “a wily cove.” This
may or may not be right as regards the “cove,”
but it is altogether wrong so far as concerns the
wily.” His Eminence may have moments of
wiliness, but as a rule he is an inconsiderate bull
rushing at a gate, and that is how most of his
troubles arise. The term “cove” is undignified
anyhow. Who, for instance, ever pictures the
apostles as 12 coves in Galilee ?
J. W. Osborne, who died recently in Cali-
fornia at the age of 72, was one of the staff at
Melbourne Flagstaff Observatory in the early 50’s.
When afterwards an officer in the Lands Dept
he invented the process of photo-lithography by
W the departmental maps are still produced,
and which was the basis of the modern photo.-
engraving on zinc. Having patented his in-
vention in various parts of the world he estab-
lished works in New York and Washington. Of
late years he was connected with the scientific
department of Stafford University, California.
Wiremu Nahira Tehoika, a Maori big-wig
at Kaiapoi (M.L.), who died recently, was one of
the survivors of the famous Siege of Kaiapohia,
when Te Rauparaha swept through the land on
the wings of sudden death. That marauding
person took the pah, but a large portion of the
garrison got safely away through the swamps, and
made their escape into Otago. In all probability
Te Rauparaha would have met his Waterloo at
the place where the tweed cloth now comes from,
but for the incapacity, or something worse, of the
chief Taiaroa, who was in the National Scout or
Judas Iscariot business in those days.
Vic. ex - Premier Peacock is a typical
instance of the hold politics get on a man once he
has been in the thick of them. Nearly twelve
months ago, the Smiler was known to be in com-
munication with certain moneyed English people
who wished to entrust him with the oversight of
their very large mining interests in Victoria.
Peacock, at that time Premier, wouldn’t take the
job, but negotiations have since been carried or.,
and there is now talk of his going ’Ome next year on
the business. But the Laugher is held back by the
necessity for “chucking” politics, and his bid for
the Federal Senate seat was due to nothing else
than the desire to have some sort of official stand-
ing. The only trouble is that when he announced
himself as a Senate candidate Peacock said
emphatically that whatever happened he could
not keep on Vic. Opposition leadership. At that
time, he felt absolutely certain of getting the
Senate seat. Since his defeat, he has carefully
forgotten his announcement re his physical unfit-
ness for party leadership,
Vic. A.N. A. branches are being circularised
in opposition to a local proposed amendment of
the Patents Act, which
will throw the burden
of ascertaining whether
an invention has been
anticipated upon the
shoulders of the in-
ventor. The State
officials do this work
now, and do it admir-
ably with little more
trouble than is in-
volved in expert men
hunting up readily-
accessible office re-
cords and books.
But retrenchment
is in the air, and
accordingly the
Vic. inventor is for
the future to be
compelled to hire
a patent agent for
the simplest appli-
cation. Besides, a
leading patent
agent is an hon.
member of the re-
trenching Minis-
try. Although
the circular deals
with political
matters and is
t h us taboo, strictly
speaking, to the
A.N.A., it is good
to find that many
branches are
straining their
powers to prevent this
new burden being laid on poor inventors. Besides,
patents are Federal matters now, and, till the
Commonwealth Parliament deals with them com-
prehensively, the State Parliaments should cer-
tainly not increase the burdens of patentees.
The daughter of the late Jas. Macpherson
Grant (Vic.), the will of whose second husband,
AN OLD FRIEND OF THE FAMILY, TOO.
THE SAD MAN : "Broke up! I should think I
was. See that man. Old friend of family.
Promised to do something for me for my
father's sake, and what do you think? Fm
blowed if he hasn't just offered me a billet !”
Lieut. C. F. Fletcher, was recently proved in
England at £910,000, was at the time of her mar-
riage to her first husband (a young Stephen of the
well-known family of that name) a very pretty,
bright-complexioned school girl. Nor had Stephen
left school. Mrs. Stephen divorced her husband
after four years of wedded life, and not very long
afterwards was married to Lieut. Fletcher, who
was then visiting Victoria. Under Fletcher’s
will, the two sons by the first marriage (Conway
and Thos. Grant Stephen) are left £200,000 and
.£150,000 respectively, subject to the life interest
of the widow.
An old gentleman, resident near Molong
(N.S.W.), sold a farm a few years ago, and ever
since has carried the proceeds (about £700) in bank
notes about his person. Some days ago he lost
the roll of notes, bjit made no mention of the fact.
He searched the road cn which he had travelled
that day, and, failing to recover his wealth, de-
termined to await developments. A schoolboy
picked up the money and handed it to the police.
A couple of years ago a laundress at Molong had
a pair of pants to wash for the old gent, and in a
pocket of the trousers she found a roll of notes —
the same lot. Then, also, the old inhabitant
wasn’t making any fuss about his lost wealth, but
just awaiting developments.
The late Joseph Evison, during his
journalistio career, did one thing especially
worthy of praise. He helped to “bust” the
“Rev.” Worthington’s “love-feast.” Some ten
years ago, when Evison went to Christchurch
(M.L.) to edit a new paper, that unholy fraud’s
Agapemone was in full swing in the little City on
the Flains. The leading feature of the cult
appeared to be that you must by no means despise
your neighbor’s wife. Evison published particu-
lars of Worthington’s American career, and traced
out his local doings also, and though the preacher
had a “front” compared to which that of the
Equitable building isn’t a circumstance, and ex-
plained that he had repented of all these things,
he was never quite the same fraud again.
Superintendent Garvin, who is recom-
mended by Mr. Fosbery as his successor in the
N.S.W. Inspector-Generalship of Police, is more
an office-constable than a street-man. He was
for many years clerk to the super, in Bathurst.
His best-known work outside was in the Mugge-
ridge murder case, at The Rocks, on the Bathurst-
Orange road, for which Henry Jarvis was executed,
in the 70’s. The murderer burned the body and
scattered the ashes. Mr. Garvin gathered them
up, not a soup-plateful, produced them in court,
and convicted Jarvis. David Buchanan, who de-
fended, declared that, if Jarvis had held his
tongue—he confessed, on conviction —he would
have upset the verdict for want of a corpse.
This was Chief-Justice Martin’s first sitting; he
had been sworn-in that morning.
In connection with the retirement
of Mr. Inderwick, K.C., the
well-known leader of the
English Divorce Court
Bar, to take up an ap-
pointment as a Com-
missioner of Lunacy,
English St. James’
Gazette recalls
one of the many
strange cases
with wb>ch he
was con-
nected in a
practice ex-
tending over
45 years:—
An English
Countess had
engaged Mr. In-
derwick to' de-
fend her in a
nullity suit
brought by her
husband. The
Earl’s case was
that his wife had
a husband already
living when he
married her, and
the suit revealed
an amazing series of
circumstances such
as would be ridiculed
as impossible in a
novel. The Countess,
ft transpired, had indeed
been married—to a Mr. G.
M. Smith—but her hus-
band, she declared, had
sailed from England in a
ship which had been lost
with all on board. A
search of the registers re-
vealed the fact that a “G.
M Smith” had certainly been
drowned in the wreck—but his
widow was called as a witness at
the trial! His name, it seemed,
was George Maslin Smith, while the
name of lespondent’s husband was
George Manley Smith. Further inquiries which these
discoveries set afoot brought to light the fact that
George Manley Smith, the first husband of the
Countess, was still living—in Maoriland —and he, too,
was placed at length in the box. The course of the
defence was then to assert that at the time George Man-
ley Smith married the respondent he had another wife
alive —a probability so remote that no spinner of fiction
could surely have invented it. Yet this was proved to
have been the case. The woman’s maiden name, by an odd
coincidence, was Smith also—and she died; but her
brother proved that she lived four years after the
marriage of her husband with respondent. So the issue
of the trial was that the first marriage of the Coun-
tess was quashed, greatly, no doubt, to her own amaze-
ment, and the Earl and Countess remained, in spite of
albcomplications, Earl and Countess still
“ 00100 ” on a wild-haired man of science :
Inclement Wragge is lecturing in Vic. country towns on
“ A Voyage Through the Universe.” Starts off with a
spout of loyalty, in which he manfully avers that a
scientist must necessarily be loyal to the empire, wanders
through a universe of chaos in which rant, scriptural
quotation, French phrases (always translated for the
audience), scraps of Latin, repetition of adjectives, and
gibes at John See form the staple. He works the lantern
himself, and throws on the screen a series of pictures for
which he himself displays boundless enthusiasm. He
states, with reference to the refusal of the See Govern-
ment to pay his liabilities in connection with the Kosciusko
Observatory, that he is waiting for a particularly bad
disturbance, without a single good point in its character,
and, when it arrives, he will get his revenge by christen-
ing the disturbance “ See." But, supposing Mr. See gets
there first, and calls his next big shortage “ Wragge."
The story of a brown man’s fall:—
London Bankruptcy Court has been discussing the sad
oase of Prince Victor Duleep Singh—gross debts £100,141,
assets £607,682, “ of which £600,000 represents his claim
against the India Office in respect of his late father’s
estates.” Victor Duleep, who is seemingly much the
same sort of Prince as his compatriot Ranji, attributes
his failure to the fact that £7,000 a year doesn’t suffice to
keep him going in his “ proper position.” Meanwhile
the India Office has withdrawn the allowance, and the
dark gentleman is lying low in France, after the usual
manner of any impecunious British “ toff." An interest-
ing story. Hundreds of thousands of Indians live in a
chronic state of want for a little rice to keep them going ;
a great mob of London unemployed made a demonstration
in Trafalgar Square last week. And a black prince
nurseling of the India Office goes insolvent on £7,000 a
year. His schedule describes him as “ late of Hockwold
Hall, Brandon, Norfolk.” Duleep, until he went bung,
was a Merrie England lord of the manor, and the local
rustics ducked their heads when he flashed his teeth at
them.
The following gem, received from Mel-
bourne, is evidently meant as a kindly apprecia-
tion of Prof. Elkington, of that city:—
Pundit Elkington, of our University, says he does the
historical work of nine professors and 13 lecturers—9 -f
13 =22 solid Germans. He carries his weight with the
ease of a Brougham, and is tolerably familiar on the
Collins-st. Block, the University Club, and Society, with
a big S. His view of history is the Bovril of the books,
but those terrible 22 Germans, each only the 22nd part of
an Elkington, will say, “ Freund I this is only the his-
torical novel. You have to begin again at the A B O,'”
whereupon each digs his teeth again into his minute
scrap of leather to chew. For 24 years, since 1879,
Elkington has been absorbed in his Voyage over the Im-
possible, or trying to drink up the Ocean. He proudly
claims that he is statesman-making. Where are they ?
Is the Whittington Bashaw of Morocco one ? What is
history? All knowledge! Elk., is Jove above Laurie,
Tucker, Gregory, Kernot, and co. ? But if history is only
chawing up books, then Cherry, amid the Bacteria, is 22
times greater than Elkington.


MACONOCHIE’S
HERRINGS in tomato sauce.
SWIFT & COMPANY, General Agents, 7 Spring Street, Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
THREE STAR
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —In the case 0/ ethnological and
natural history items , etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
NOT ALWAYS.
PHILOSOPHIC LOAFEK: "Time, Bill, is Money.”
BILL (just done a "sixer”): “Oh, hut it ain't
always been Money with me!”
A recent issue of the War Cry, com-
menting on the distress of the. unfortunate
Mallee cookies, bids them: “Praise the Lord,
there will be no drought in Heaven.” Average
cookie would be better suited if he were assured
that the drought had broken up in Sheol.
• • • •
During a period of four months, Walgett
(N.S. W.) Stock Board paid bonuses on the scalps
of 13,607 crows, 703 wild pigs, 81 native dogs, and
227 hawks. The payment on the big amount of
crow-scalps broke the bank of the board. 1 his is
a sure sign that work is extremely scarce and
unemployeds very plentiful in that district. Only
scarcity of the usual bush-work out-back sends
large numbers of men to scalping, honey-hunting,
and other open-to-all games. Ih the same manner
a specially heavy yearly gold return of a State is
invariably a reliable token that employment is
scarce there, and numbers of unemployed have
been driven to eke out tucker, and, if lucky, 3s,
Od. a week at fossicking.
Three residents of Takaka, Nelson (M.L.),
recently discovered in a small wooded gully a very
large bullock. Upon investigation it appeared
that the animal had been there for several years,
its egress being blocked by a fallen tree across trie
only practicable outlet. The log was removed
and the animal driven into the settlement. It.
was very wild when first sighted, but after being
sworn at became very quiet and could be handled.
It is thought from its amenability to cursing that
it is a working bullock that strayed and became
trapped as described. In the narrow gully it had
worn paths to the barred opening, and these were
quite a foot deep. The animal is reckoned to go.
12cwt., and is in fair condition. It’s a good thing;
for that bullock that it could not think through,
all the years of its confinement.
* » • •
“6x8": I found this advt. (from Hay,
N.S.W.) in Sydney Worker:
J LAWSON, having resumed business in tne
• CARRIER’S ARMS HOTEL, Leonard-st, near
Waterworks, will be pleased to see old and new
friends, who can have Free Paddocking and get drunk
Evidently there is still some of the old-time
chain-lightning snakejuice left out back. Apropos ,
some years ago a N.W. Queensland shanty-keeper
advertised in a local organ that “ to facilitate the*
jumping of horses over the bar, he kept on his
premises a low and narrow one specially con-
structed for the convenience of customers.
• * • *
A tall natural-history yarn :
Was recently visiting- a friend (on the Murrumbtdgee)
who is a bit of a fowl-fancier. Oat of a three-gninea
“sitting” he obtained the disappointing result of four-
young ducks. Bad enough ; but one morning, to his in-
tense disgust, one of these had mysteriously disappeared,,
and next day another had gone. Early next morning he
and I were on guard over the remaining two ducklings,
and noticed a large jackass hanging round Presently
this bird flew into a neighboring trae, and when we
approached to get a shot we came across a young jacko.
finishing the remains of yesterday s robbery. Captured
the youngster and put it in a large cockatoo-cage, which,
we placed on the lawn. In about an hour the big goburra
returned with a large worm in her mouth, took up a posi-
tion near the cage and conducted herself as if endeavor-
ing to entice the captive away. She remained thus all
day without ever coming near enough to the cage to
allow the youngster to take the worm. Next day she did
the same thing until about mid-day when, making a great
row. she suddenly flew off. Old Billy, the blackfellow,
said : “ lie come back, feed—then this fella die. And,
sure enough, after a time she did come back with some-
thing, which she took straight up to the cage and gave to
her progeny, which ate whatever it was with great gusto.
In an hour the young jack was dead, apparently poisoned
by its own mother. Old Billy said : “Me tell you right.
He fly over there, take a green bit out of grass and B ive
to this fella ; then this fella dead.”
* • • •
A hawker (what a lot of life an open-eyed
hawker must see !) tells The Bulletin of a myste-
rious experience:
I was camped one night on
Burwood-road, near Black
Flat (Vic.). Burwood-road
runs from the Yarra Bridge
at Windsor to Fern-tree
Gully, where it joins the
Gully-road and meanders on
into the ranges and the bush.
I awoke about 5, just as day
broke, and was making over
to the nearest house for some
water when I noticed what
looked like a man and a
woman toiling towards me
up the long hill from
the gully. As they came
on, I saw they were really
two women and a little
girl—a pretty little thing,
beautifully dressed. As it
was Monday morning, I
reckoned they were Mel-
bourne excursionists who
had missed the Sunday night
train, and, being slumped,
were walking the 18 miles
back to town, but the sturdy
way they negotiated the hill
didn’t strengthen that sup-
position. About 100 yards
from me they stopped, and
the little girl slipped through
the fence of an orchard
and gathered some cherries.
They sat on the roadside
and ate these, then came on
and passed me unnoticed.
Immediately afterwards they
stopped again, and the
little girl knelt down in the
middle of the road and ap-
parently said a prayer. Then
all three got through the
rails into the paddock where
I was camped. I became
much interested, and fol-
lowed them. They went a
quarter-of-a-mile from the road,
when the little girl, at a sign (from
first to last, as far as I could make
out, none had spoken a word), sat
down on a log, and the two women
went on another 100 yards. 1 fol-
lowed, and retreated at the blush-
ful spectacle of both ladies com-
pletely disrobing, swapping garments and
re dressing themselves. Then they took up the
small child again, got out on the road and strode
(“strode” is the proper word) on towards Melbourne.
1 had my breakfast, thinking hard. After breakfast I
strolled over to the “dressing” spot to see if by chance
they had left any clue. I found a new purse, containing
half-a-sov., two shillings and threepence, and the return
halves of Ist class tickets from Hawthorn to the Gully 1
Then I thought considerably more. Why did they walk?
Why change clothes ? I put in the Age an attractive advt.,
for three days running, as to a purse found. No answer.
« • * »
Extracts from letter from a settler in the
Trangie district:
We have in money 2s. 6d.; rations—solb. flour, 21b. tea ;
nothing else. ... I had a bit of meat upon Christmas
day. Have smoked for 20 years ; had to give it up. My
storekeeper has closed his store, having a lien"over my
furniture. My house, &c., are insured for £430, and my
wife and five little ones starving—one a baby, and cannot
buy it any food. My wife, who is a native of Sydney, 25
years old, is wasting away before my eyes. My black boy,
whom I have reared for 17 years, would not stand starv-
ing, and cleared for Queensland. ... I would give any
storekeeper in Sydney a lien over my crop for rations. I
don’t want to beg anything—God forbid. 1 will pay
back. If I get any crop this year it will mean £750, so l
need not beg only for food. Sir, it would bring tears to
your eyes just to really see and know what is ruling. I
work hard all day, come home, and the little ones are
getting thinner every day.
“Caro” : Once watched a creek (a bend
of the Lachlan) ‘‘come down,” as the bush saying
is. It had been dry for months. All day we
waited, for we heard the river was rising. An
hour before dark a yelling boy on h°rseb ac k
announced it was round the bend. We nea. l
know I expected to see a tidal wave foaming nke
,a beer bottle, so scuttled for high ground. Ihe
first premonition of its coming was a
low swishing sound, as of wind mov-
ing through a gully, made by the
-water twitter-
ing through
millions of
dead leaves.
Then some-
thing resem-
bling a black
snake began to
move uncer-
tainly in the
bed of the
creek, widen-
ing every mo-
ment. Wells
had been dug
at intervals
in the dry
bottom, and
after gliding
round these, the black
water at first trickled
cautiously over the sides.
It increased till, with a
booming roar, a sheet of
foam shot high in the
air, leaving but a whirl-
ing eddy behind. A
crumbling, dirty wave
flooded the lower part
of the creek with the
crisp purr of water over
long-dry sand. “Slap!
slap ! ” came each tiny
wave till the dusty
"banks crumbled. Eddies
raced giddily round tree
boles, from whose
branches crickets shrilled
Tiitifully. And still the
little black finger ran before; then a smell—an
awful musty stench—drove us from the banks, and
we rushed across the paddock to watch the first
trickle of water over the weir, and hear it hiss
on the blistered, drought-seared stones.
* • * •
“6x8”: Be drought. Tarella Station, in
Western N.S.W., has been keeping drought
records for 30 years. In 1887 the gauge showed
21.26 in.; next year there was but 3.l2in.—Nature
had apparently exhausted itself. Last year easily
beat this with 4.07 in. The average for the 30
years is 10.31 in.; for the last seven years, 6.69 in.
Walloo, in same (Wilcannia) district, takes the
drought-cake, with a record of not a single frac-
tion of a drop of rain from August, 1901, to July,
1902!
• • » *
“ E.S.S.”: The par re platypus (B. 14/2/02)
is slightly misleading. The burrow of the platy-
pus always has two entrances, one above water
and one under water. The former may be any-
thing from a few inches to six feet above water
mark, and is mostly hidden among tall grass or
rushes ; the latter connects with the burrow only
a very little way in from the top entrance. The
burrow is a long, narrow tunnel running up the
bank, and ranges from 20ft. to 50ft. in length,
terminating in an oval-shaped nest, the whole
formed somewhat like a water-bottle with an
elongated neck. The nest is lined with weeds,
grass and fibrous roots. The animal lays usually
two or three eggs, and breeds in early summer.
The platypus is excellent eating, and is relished by
aborigines, who spear it in the streams, or dig it
out of the burrows. It is not strictly a nocturnal
animal, as most naturalists aver, though it courts
shadows ; I have seen it disporting in rivers and
creeks at all hours in the day. From personal ex-
perience I should say that it feeds and swims
about for a few hours, has a good camp, and then
takes to the water again, day or night being
immaterial to it.
• • * •
“Petramos": Wheat doesn’t come into
Orroroo (S.A.) as it used to do in days gone by,
and local buyers here have to squint through office
windows and send forth scouts to watch for the
coming of any stray cocky's waggon. Recently
saw two agents waiting on the outskirts of the
town to give a first bid. When the waggon
arrived, however, a third buyer was sitting up
with the driver. He’d met the waggon further up
the road and bought the load ten minutes pre-
viously.
* * * *
For several weeks Dalby Herald had
been freely advertising and blowing up a pro-
jected Dalby issue of the Queenslander, and had
itself guaranteed to take 300 copies of the issue in
the interests of the district. In due course the
issue appeared, and it contained a yarn to the
effect that the “editor of the Herald at last
election had a special issue of his paper for print-
ing recording his (anticipated) victory. That was
the only issue of the Herald which never came
out.” Then a rampant Dalby editor reviewed the
Dalby issue of the Queenslander It is no
credit to that journal ; it’s got up badly ; the
written matter is wretchedly flat and partisan ;
illustrations tainted with prejudice ; best stores,
hotels, etc., conspicuous by their absence ; not
one representative man is photographed ; and the
feeble claw-prints of the local mopoke are over it
all.”
“ Lin ” : Noteworthy that, in Southern
Vic. streams, the perch, introduced a few years
a wo, has almost exterminated the native blackhsh
and eels. The perch has multiplied much more
rapidly than the sal-
mon trout, which
fish was introduced
it the same time as
the perch.
GETTING ON.
NEW CHUM : “So you have been in Australia 15
years? ”
S WAGGIE : “ Yes, an I mean to stop here; it's a
country anyone can get on in. Can yer lend
us thrippence? ”
The month of February, supposed to be a
time of wet, has passed over huge areas of Western
Queensland without vouchsafing a drop of rain to
the barren acres. Meantime, the Queensland
coastal press keeps on b irracking about the break-
up of the drought and the advent of renewed
prosperity.
• • • •
Recently writer struck a far North-
Western Q. mining township. A big run sur-
rounded said township, and the lessee, inspired
by the greed of gain in other markets, refused to
sell the mining population any beef. Result—one
day the station hands discovered seven carcases
(evidently not long slaughtered) on the run from
which only the tongues and a small quantity of
steak had been removed. Local policeman put
the situation thus And whoy would Oi be
busy watching people? A bit o’ mate once in a
whoile is good for all of us. . . . To h 1 wid the
squatters! ”
“J.F.D. A cocky near Menangle
(N.S.W.) has a mare which in harness always
keeps its proper side of the road without being
guided by the reins. Cocky explains by saying
mare had a sore right ear when being broken in,
and used to get as far as possible from the whip
hand by working to the left Anyhow you cannot
drive her two hundred yards on the wrong side of
the road.
•***)>
“ A.8.T.” : Re the rabbit as a “ squatter.”
His propensity in this direction is decided by Ins
color. The common gray rabbit finds protective
ground colors so abundant, that h© is evolving a
constitutional inertia that would do credit to a
domain dosser. Disturbed suddenly, he will squat
right away if the alternative is a lengthy sprint.
The “ bright tawny ”is more wary. It is harder
for him to get a background. Generally he takes
no risks, heading straight for cover. Disturbed
one day, he did 50 yards hard, then arriving at a
point between me and a piece of reddish sand-
stone —the only piece in sight—he went down as
if shot. For a moment I thought he had “ bur-
rowed.” Creeping up I found him hugging the
earth about 3yds. away from the stone, in which
he did not lose faith till I tickled him with a
stick. I have never seen the black or white rab-
bit squat long. They seldom leave the immediate
vicinity of the burrow and are always the first to
get under when danger threatens. They seem to
feel their natural disadvantages very keenly.
* * • *
At the experimental farm attached to
Rose worthy (S.A.) Agricultural College elaborate
tests are made in the use of artificial fertilisers.
This year’s results are, generally, that when a
crop is left for wheat the extra yield pays for the
fertiliser and leaves a little in hand, though no
much ; but when cut for hay the extra yield pays
for the fertiliser four times over. Of course, hay
is at a phenomenally big price this year.
WE TRIED IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Cooking is not the advantage it is made out to be.
Cabbages and lettuces serve the human economy very
much better when they are consumed raw than when
cooked.” — People’s Newspaper.
We camped afar from tanks and wells, did Billy Smith
and I,
And waterholes were scarce as prayers, and pretty near
as dry ; t , ,
And of the many thousand things whereat we used to
swear,
The cooking gave the others points, and won with points
to spare ;
For when you weren’t after fuel, collecting bits of scrub,
You’d have to carry billies full of lovely liquid mud.
And so the words—the printed words—that up above
you’ll see
Seemed like an angel’s voice to us, and filled our hearts
with glee ; ,
For round behind the firewood lay (1 wish it lay there
now)
A cabbage that we’d borrowed from the garden of a
Chow. ,
“Hoo-bloomin’-ray!” said Billy Smith, “I wish wed
known before. , .
Just chuck along the Chinaman, we’ll eat the villain
raw.”
We started on the mild repast, a nasty clammy ball,
With slug% and caterpillars mixed, but yet we ate it all,
And thought it wasn’t quite too bad, as worse things
might have been,
Till Billy asked me if we had a dose of chlorodyne ;
And, ere upon the summer breeze his piteous accents
died,
I felt as if I had a sort of hurricane inside.
But needless now to dwell upon the horrors of the tale.
So o’er the later details let us draw a kindly veil;
But for the benefit of all I’d clearly like to state
That Billy is athirst for gore—and so is Billy’s mate:
And if we ever get a show, we'll rend w'ith tooth and
claw
The men who'say that cabbages are better eaten raw
QUIDAM.


A Drink! A Tonic! A Medicine!
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call for WOLFE’S Schnapps and sure that
you take nothing else.
Insomnia Banished.
Mr. Thomas Rytin, a bank clerk, residing at the
btar Hotel, Cbotanmndra, suffered considerably
for two years, the main cause of which was want
of sleep, and he writes us “I am by profession
a bank clerk, and the worry of business so preyed
upon my mind that I could not obtain the
necessary amount of sleep. I may safely say I did
not average three hours’ sound sleep out of 24
rhis state of things played up with my constitu-
tion, and I soon began to feel the symptoms of a
disordered liver and other organic troubles, and
these were followed by bilious attacks, indigestion
headache,_ debility, &c. Matters tiegan to look
rather serious, and I consulted several doctors in
the hope of bettering my condition, but to no
avail, and having also tried many so called
remedies, I began to think I would be a confirmed
sufferer. But the ‘ friend ’ in need came in the
shape of Bile Beans for biliousness. I was induced
to try this valuable medicine through the medium
of a pamphlet I received, and will ever bless the
day I did so. A month’s trial of Bile Beans
proved to my satisfaction that I had secured the
remedy at last, as by that time I was completely
cured, and, in gratitude to the proprietors of the
Bile Bean Co., and sympathy for my fellow-
sufferers, X never lose a chance to recommend to
them Bile Beans for biliousness.” Bile Beans
have now a world wide reputation for curing
biliousness, headache, indigestion, constipation
piles, debility, female weaknesses, nervousness
bad blood, pimples and all skin eruptions, bad
breath, anaemia, loss of appetite, sleeplessness
summer fag, Sec. Bile Beans are obtainable from
all medicine vendors, price Is. or 2s. 9d. large
box, (contains three times the quantity of the
Is. size.)
Why do Buyers
Come to Us for Rings ?
Ist. Because we are the actual makers.
2nd. Because we are Art Ring designers.
3rd. Because our rings are in exquisite
taste.
4th. Because our prices are the lowest.
Marquese Rinjr,
Diamonds & Sapphires,
£l2/12/-
■Ju.
a
5 Exquisite Pearls,
42/-
6-stone Diamond
Half-Hoop,
a marvel of value,
£5/5/-
sth. Because we buy large quantities of Diamonds in the rough and cut them.
6th. Because we buy Sapphires in the rough and cut them in Sydney.
' n' ;CaUBe we £ uy °P al ! n ro «ffh and cut it in our Hunter-street premises.
Bth. Because we have Pearls direct from the Fisheries. V
9th. Because we pay Spot Cash for all the above.
10th. We sell for Cash. Ko intermediate profits anywhere.
Plain Figures.
Strfctly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
nanufacturing Jewellers,
23 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
witnesses * by Chinese
witnesses. I once witnessed, m the Bathurst,
Court, an execution which was a cheering
emsode while it lasted. A Chow named A?
Kow was summoned as a witness in a cfs
of grievous assault. He positively refused
to be sworn unless he was allowed to cut off
the head of a pure-white rooster, and the case
had to be adjourned for many hours durfn ®
V
scrupulous pagan had sawed through three
th<? * ot awaSdSt
opping and flapping all over the court, with
its top-knot waving wildly from side to side
and covering the place with gore. It got on
the law books and the depositions and t e
court’s dignity, and at last it went and
perished by itself under a seat, where \h
Kow overtook it and finished slaying it]
already dead corpse. Then, being formally
awawVn 1 ’ i KOW S f W r that he W^s 10
away at the tune of the assault, and was t! e
]], r e t ! n t?rl KOW TK tOKether - 1 Can still «» t 9
spectacle. The court was in twilight, t. a
day haying slipped away while the chookey
dm* °V talI !f d -, There was blood and
fluff and hen s tail all over Ah Kow, and a
fow s body at his feet, and a fowl s head in
his hand and a casual ray of sunset made a
hir^taT 06 round *** wLo
* • • *
“ F.C.” : My private opinion, that the
real farmers of Victoria-though they don’t
call themselves such—are the men round
Melbourne, who make a living off 20 to 40
acres by workmq the soil, received confirma-
tion from a man I met lately. He bought
40 acres two years ago, out beyond Bur-
wood. It is notoriously poor land-lightly
timbered with box, and growing mostly spear-
grass in the natural state. Last year he
cleared and grubbed 12 acres,, laid down
grass for stock on five of these, and put in
° at ?- From . these he has now
stacked 20 tons hay. He is clearing the rest,
has fixed fowl-runs, and reckons this year to grow
and strip enough wheat and maize to feed 200
head of poultry all the winter. Am watching
the experiment with interest.
* • • *
Ormi : Saw one afternoon, some years
ago, a crowd of people collected in Swanston-st.,
Melbourne, watching a hawk comfortably perched
on the topmost pinnacle of the Town Hall, tearing
to pieces and eating a tame pigeon it had caught.
1 he hawk could only have been reached by a gun-
shot from the roof, and it seemed to know the
municipal regulation against the use of firearms in
the city.
* • • .
The vitality of the turtle common to Aus-
tralian rivers is extraordinary, A farmer living
near Orange (N.S.W.) recently found a turtle in
the only hole of drinking water left. He chopped
its head off close to the shell and threw it into
some bushes. Seventeen days later he found the
headless turtle walking about some yards from
where he had thrown it, and with the remnant of
the neck sun-dried like old leather.
HE SAW SEVERAL.
LANDLORD: “Kill him, B[?]ly; hit him with the
stick !”
BILLY : “ Wasser user killin' one outer five
hundred?"
Queensland aborigines station at Fraser
Island seems to be used sometimes for the facili-
tating of mean social crimes. The Bulletin
hears of one squatter person who, having lived
with a gin some years (there were three children
of the union), found tiie task of desertion easy :
he simply consigned his cast-off mistress and
children to the Government Station at Fraser
Island.
THE SYDNEY WATER-FA MINE.—BAD
TIME FOR THE BIRDS.
THE INVALID: “ I’d like a sautt o' worms to day .
father."
THE OTHER: “ Worms, me boy, worms! Why,
it a month since I saw one, an' then I 'ad
ter fight ole Bobtail for it."
G.J.M. : Strange that in Gippsland
this year the March flies (January sample) are
ministers compared with those of other years. I
could understand their numbers being diminished
Cr ?T d by V l6 P artial drought or other
“ d , e^ a n seasonal causes. But an increase to
nearly double the size is perplexing.
• • • ,
Catching beetles gives lucrative emplov-
hundreds of youngsters, and to many
$ tramps as well, during the cane season in
parts of Queensland. Ihe more agile and hawk-
eyed last season made as much as 6s. a day.
When the bonus for beetle scalps was initiated,
the insects were counted by the receivers, but the
collectors brought them in such vast numbers
that the expedient of paying by weight was
adopted. Then the nippers soaked the catch over-
night, and the increase of expenditure on beetle
destruction was so marked that soon the old
method of counting was reverted to.
• • • *
Nature (13/11/'O2) strongly advocates the
general adoption in Australia of the rabbit-
destroying methods by which Mr. W. Rodier, of
lambua (Cobar, N.S.W.), has cleared his own
station of the pest:—
Mr. Rodier’s plan is based on the well-
known law of nature that polygamy is
favorable to the increase of offspring and
polyandry is unfavorable. Rabbits usually
live in a polygamous state. One male im-
pregnates a number of females and produces
a large offspring. Mr. Rodier proposes to
convert this polygamy into polyandry by
catching the rabbits alive and killing all the
females, while the males are turned out
again. If this is done, the male rabbits be-
come more numerous than the females, harass
the females by their constant attentions,
and injure their powers of breeding. Thus
the offspring becomes continually less
numerous. That this result will follow is
illustrated by the case of public women,
who seldom bear children and never pro’
duce large families, and by other facts well-
known to science.
The ordinary course pursued in trapping
rabbits, in which all that are caught are
killed, so far from diminishing the evil, is
much more likely to increase it. The great
maj'ority of the rabbits captured are males,
because the male rabbits have the habit of
congregating in certain spots called “ buck-
heaps." In these spots they are easily
caught by the trappers, who are, of course,
only anxious to kill as many as possible and
to obtain the fees offered for their destruc-
tion by the Rabbit Acts. Thus the males
becomes diminished in numbers and the
breed becomes increased.
Mr. Rodier’s plan, which is certainly
theoretically correct, ought to be tried by
the authorities on a large scale. It would
be easy to fence round a few thousand acres
in one of the worst districts and see what
effect will be produced by capiuring the
rabbits alive and killing only the females.
• • •
“ 00100 ” : Shot a ’possum on
Deep Creek one night in February', and
although it was killed immediately, its
prehensile ring- tail kept it hooked to
the bough all night. Next morning it
was still suspended until I shot away
the bough with a Winchester bullet. I
shot a mate of the aforesaid ’pcs uni,
and the latter fell at once. Took him
to the camp and left him there all night. In-
the morning I tried to see whether he would
still hook, hung him on to the ridge pole
of the tent. To my surprise, he hung as if
he had grown there, but later in the day his tail
seemed to straighten and down he fell.
• • • •
A certain well-known mining town has a
peculiar race of jurymen, whose custom it is to
re-argue with tongues and fists every case outside
the Court. Hence the local paper records with
great gusto:—“Our town is very quiet since the
jurymen departed for home. Most of them left
town without a scratch.” The local feeling evi-
dently is: “We are going down-hill fast. We
are not the town we once were.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
t?o notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Aame and address must apt ear on MS.
A o liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accomj any
R.N. (Q.): Its not open to any doubt. A
London paper publishes Milner’s birth-certificate, showing
that he was born at Bonn (Germany) of German parents
in 1854. The point was taken in England a little while
ago that Milner could not be made a Privy Councillor as
he was not a natural-born British subject Stawell :
Once again Tim Bulletin hasn’t an atom of sympathy
with the militant, ranting, proselytising “agnostic.”....
K. : We really don’t want anybody to agree with us at
great length. We can agree with ourselves quite
thoroughly without taking any space over it... R.J.H.G.:
An article which begins “ When reflecting upon ” must
surely be Intended for the S.M. Herald R.A.K.: I. s
quite right sometimes to send a seducer who won’t pay
for the baby to gaol ; he has inflicted a wrong and
deserves punishment; similarly offenders in divorce and
.5u ..L e l(lea IS not imprisonment for debt, but a fine
wUh the optwn of gaol. ..T.T. : Tit Bits and such like
A?,=l ICa r 10 ? 8 seem , to have their le Bl s pulled from
Australia to a very large extent. We’re getting tired of
noticing their blunders.... Melbourne: The report about
the sale of The Bulletin to David Syme is quite
? riue - At lpa »t The Bulletin is for sale to Mr. Syme
wn . * a week ~same price as to anybody else
iii L* a c ?/, lces , sion to our ignorance, tell us what it’s
all about.... Wombat: The Tas. Lewis crowd certainly
seems to have a vigorous lot of enemies. Your yarn
came to hand after another had reached print... . F.L.B. :
A narration of circumstances in rather faulty rhyme.' We
get hundreds of such contributions weekly, and can’t
help mourning over the wasted time they represent
J. : When your yarn arrived another on the same sub-
ject was in type.... General: Very faulty in places, but
youve* good idea of metre....J. (W.A.): Your pars,
often have the look of being mere reckless assertions
Milesian : Verses not up to our standard. ..Bull-Whacker'-
You don t whack quite well enough yet... .Leslie O :
Djn t know that ex-sub-editor ; don’t know the mystery :
don t know the book ; don’t know you. Please explain.
....J.M.G.: There’s the excuse for the authorities in
regard to that centenarian that he would not stay in
charitable institutions ; still, sending him to gaol is a
savage expedient. He will have to serve the sentence
unless the Governor of Victoria is petitioned to release
him.... .G.R.O. : Can’t accede to your request (in a
postage-due letter) for a free copy ; what’s worth reading
is worth paying for E.F. : No call for such an
amount of writing to refute the parson story that
the drought is the result of sin ; not even the parsons
take such yarns seriously now Unsuitable : Hubert
SMTS°’5 M TS°’A Hug0 ’ JM ‘ L * Desmond, J.S.N., Outcast....
K. Opens well, but fizzles out towards the end.. ..
F ~e r: trace •• • - F.L.O. : Dog parodies we leave
to Mr. Reid F. 8.; Just jingle E.C.C. : Far
too long M.W.M. : It’s a strong idea, but very
inefficiently treated.. ..Juvenis : On the right lines of
personal observation ; but you need much practice yet....
B ® rt ‘e: “New-chum” verse not good enough on U.a
whole, but a few of the queries are saved here :
Is the boomerang fierce when aroused ?
Can the creek run miles without rest?
The emu’s a kind of a hen :
Does it or the gully lay best ?
Are lagoons really finer when dry ?
(I always like fresh fruit the best).
But verandahs 1 ’Tis surely a lie
The kangaroo builds there her nest ?
.. ..F. Adam : Very crude and tyroish The Watcher »
Pretty fair work. You should make a pretty c o ~d
descriptive writer in time Leon B. : Something of a
novelty in race-yarns. May be printed... .Grace E. B. :
Uncommon; may see the light Hawthorn : “ Grimmo"
has more promise than performance... .E. Edenborough :
Hardly interest enough.... Ku-Klux : Funny; but crude.
•• • • VV.H.S. : Doesn’t rise above mediocrity W.H.D. :
The point is not too bad, but the surrounding matter is
weak Barnabas: Too long-winded. May cut down
and use.... Joram : 41 Jorum ” would have been more ap-
propriate to such a tipsy metre Alex. E. M. : Thanks
for the well-meant suggestion, but Mr. Evison has since
died... Huron: Yarn about the lady’s toe-nail dis-
respectfully declined.... Archer : Missed The Bulletin
mark W.A.G. : Too much purposeless slaughter in it.
....Helen Mac.: If your age is as stated, you should
in tune do excellent work Dion: Complicated
style and unconvincing characters Oolite: A long
lamentable croak about nothing in particular.
J.R. (Wanaaring) : Yes, price 7d., post free... .Chas*.
Penn Smith : Please send address, Accountant, Bulletin
Office The Guitar : May print you some day as a
curiosity Perplexed : Many a man has wagered on
that, and lost. Mont Bianc is just inside the Fiench
frontier Quercus : You didn’t forward the whole of
the M.S Donga : Not a bad idea hardly well enough
worked out... .Dudley C. : Just a glimmer of humor in
it Sjambok : Repulsive theme, not atoned for by any
strength of handling.,,,.W.W.A. : You show gross
ignorance of the subject. It’s a case of the “ fool rushing
in.”....8u1-Padok : Rather weak and flimsy Novice :
Rather graphic ; may have a chance.... Barry S. : Pretty
good—of the sort... .Tycho : Can’t say till we’ve seen it.
S.P.A. : Too ponderous and didatic... .Soojee :
Requires a lighter, brighter style... Annie Mac : Sus-
piciously like one of Roderic Quinn's stories
Sirdar: “Johnstone’s Strength,” good idea badiy
handled.... Galvp: Screed oh smells interesting if odorous
will print 0. H. Read: Lovely lie, well told!
General: No, you’re only a recruit, but a promising
one. Keep on. Pome impossible. Yarn weak; any
woman would know her husband even if he came home
bald-headed and stained with walnut juice G.E.R.
Unprintable joke.... Maggie S. : “Consequences” too
long for interest; the consequences should hit the reader
in the eye like a succession of short, quick jabs Stray :
Yarn about egotistical Fatmau wants epigrammatic
treatment.... Frank Kent: We abominate dialogues,
especially the dialogue where each party fires off a ton of
reflections without stopping to take breath W.F. : You
don’t make a bad photo yourself, bui the boss is just
lovely L. Vincent: No trace of “The Devil’s Own ’.’
0.P.: Don’t think either of your appliances for prevent-
ing engines filling tunnels with smoke is practicable
J.J.B. : Accepted E. T. Schaeffer: Many thanks for
information Pierani : Thanks, will print.... Wells :
Mechanically accurate verse, but no bright fresh idea in
it anywhere Quidam (or something adjacent thereto):
Cabbage yarn excellent. Not certain about others
John R. : But we don’t want to diminish our exports by
an export tax. We want to export more and import ,ess,
so that the surplus of exports will gradually pay off our
foreign debts Caro: “Billie” will about do The
Dead ‘Un : Joke even deader than your name suggests....
Caro (Manly): A very fine bit of description.... Puden
Levers (Kalgoorlie) : Why do we call the dead “ the silent
majority?” Well, the present generation is alive, but to
go no further back than IA.D. there are 60 generations
that are dead Mamoosi: There is no weak point at all
in the proposed paper currency idea provided the supply
of paper isn’t too large, that it is legal tender for payment
of taxes, and that the profits derived from the public
works constructed out of the proceeds of the paper issue
are applied to withdraw it from circulation, or to con-
struet more reproductive works, or to pay off part of the
state s liabilities. In other words the scheme merely
wants honest administration. But it is no good address-
ing the state Government on the matter Only the
Commonwealth can issue legal tender paper i\
oimer ; Decline to publish a picture of any lady’s corns.
' :Jf. eor £ e : You can’t rhyme “ down ” and “ mown ”
in this paper . ..Souci: Fiat as the Mallee.. .. Uloola :
ot iright enough... .Adonis : Solemn subject, frivolous
i l \r r n’. a rr mixtl ?Il? of tlle grandiose and the trifling
J ’ M ’vr‘ \j,9. trifling.... Marlyn : Too choppy and jerky.
'• Hallulay ; .Matter interesting enough, but the
straggling inconsecutive treatment kills it.. ..Wearv B. :
Clumsy doggerel 0n1y.... Kichau : Interesting enough
material’ but unusable in such a form....liiiax : “A
Word Symphony ’ has merit as a whole, though there are
numerous weak points.... Kathleen W. : You marked
3 our packet ‘‘ MS. only,” and as a letter was enclosed it
cost us 6d. for deficient postage... R. Maxwell: The
Austiahan police are as good as the average, but a
thousand duties quite outside police work are thrown
upon them, and they have licle time to hunt for
criminals.... ‘Thompson”: Some good bits here and
there, but too many crippled lines.... Wild Bee - Will
print Sorceress” C.C.H.: -‘Bill’s Cheques’ hardly
gets thei e C.J.McM. : Your railway verse won’t stand
comparison with work on similar lines already published.
Louburke: “Mickie” shuddered on the edge of
acceptance, then fell into the W.P.B. ; other went
wit. out hesitation....J.W.B.Mc. : We never buy a pig
in a poke, and a poem 144 lines long is anvhow probably
too big a hog for our digestion ... J. Young : House of
Representatives may dissolve any time, but doesn’t
necessarily dissolve till March, 1904. Barton was for a
time Attorney-General in the last Bibbs Ministry. In
Kngland all incomes over £l6O pay income-tax (Is. 3d.
in the £) J.h.M. : All right We’ll mak e tlie sewing-
machine canvasser the villain of the story next time.
“ Major Was watching (lie various
unsuccessful tricks to shift a jibbing horse in the
niain street, Bathurst, t’other day, when an old
veteran in the ‘‘gods ” yelled out, “ Lift up one
of his front hoofs, hit the frog hard with a rock
and let the driver chop him with the whip at the
same time. It came off—the moke shifted his
freight so rapidly, that he was into the next street
before a couple of discomfited and astonished
spectators could pick themselves out of the dust.
F. W. WARD,
The new Editor of “ Sydney Telegraph."
Photo, by Johnstone, O'Shannessy & Co., Melb.
“ C.W." re “ indeterminate sentences
Perhaps something like this would be worth con-
sidering. When a man was convicted, instead of being
sentenced for a fixed period, a money penalty would be
set for him to work out. He would be given certain use-
.l' 0 do, and have, firstly, to earn his own board
and lodging, and secondly, in order to get out, to earn
enough to pay the penalty. If he broke certain fixed
rules the penalty might be increased. Under these cir-
cumstances, the offender with any reform in him would
get his score paid off as soon as possible and regain his
freedom. The work itself being useful would probably
have a good effect on him. Habitual criminals, being in
perpetual revolt against the law, would probably never
come out.


Biggs (100 vs oM n«T»i*aJ-
JUo SeoTeuccd "to *'S-fc-
10%e.r
Ck r Kp
J'jtfier itfe
Supply -for
W« -ft k j>
Wv«-«
people »l 4ra , i
r Vt U K + r
;< MT Wine
jive!
, *g' v<n *»« q y*^!
% (owjnji'ttee
I oft
Jp'orrj 'VJe
jjvl«vn«nWyf
L'Wj
«***•* *%&*
f onl *> € j
C**! 7 '
is Suge^ 1^
-ftfaC*" itje
te Si|»|»e<*
iffrou^b
Ixter --I'lfeu d'Spr-Acef l * l .
■ftTp triorrung' ■
Son— "(ocK-fvlsJj V
1 '^ Ks^
<1 > o r Corn^wLow
o« sb u, (*> K •
IL'b'ViM No, we
ve K<‘3 °* fecKs
b<W-b“+ We
-John i
Well JeVelojjc^
* foj, W* Jo^S^fS
jtc >e J|JgJg§g§
'fe§>"£ r ° w ftytz K)
donT-flji«iK )
W«m ’■—• Wl,o sWK S-cK'y?-
nfc 15<? w¥T s>«t K Sf cK e -
*. I
ms Ivfrie *
J . A\\>
' „ ' WaT"-^
°f -ft c
Cis)c«l^toV
JLjf e Wee
l*7 wo*,
tfow n7«ci7 will ft* l?e
: in A D 2000 P
VICTORIAN MATTERS.


the MHR ’ adaressed a at Paddiagtoadast night of
the Women's Liberal League. He said that as an old campaigner and one who
ten J'ttc. a eJ St,l<ly ° f the ° ry “ d of govett*
“ They should carefully distinguish the mere politician from
the man of statesmanlike habits and aims.'*
/
o-
v-y
y >c*
A v
<» ji
»°
s* *P
-.*•
N*; 45^
Boffiat yon need make no mistake I now show the
portrait of a man of statesmanlike habits and aims.
(Applause and cries of “Ain’t he a dear!”“ Aren’t
his trousers creased dovaly,” and “Where did you get
that halo t ’’)
“Instead of Australians arrogating to themsel™.
Th« h f J n T Ml,le numbers into
the States, study their habits, their cus-
their ideals, and their outlook
ofjxfe.”
Such men aspired to be powerful
and wholesome in physic. ”
« The proceedings will now conclude with a Kindergarten lecture by my friiid
,Mr. Jack Want on^ l The habite and customs -of the Japanese. (A voice
“ thl point our artist concluded that it wae no place for him and Uft
A LECTURE BY SPRUCE MYTH, M.H.R.
REPORTED BY THE SYDNEY D.T. AND ILLUSTRATED BY A “ BULLETIN" ARTIST.


Key,
£3 los,
Keyless,
£5.
VS
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £8 10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 los, £5, £slos, £6, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l6, £2O.
A written certificate for 8, 4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Free-
trade
Prices.
No
Advance
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable WATERBURY WATCHES.
Long Wind, 8s 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model, (i., 18s 6d ;
Extra Quality, j-plate, 18s 6d and £l.
Silver, 85s j
Gold, £2 15s.
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
20s.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
Solid Sliver, 35s ; Double Case, £2.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
Black or
' Nickel,
30s.
Silver,
£5.
r>#
> N \ *
/ /V
3*
fit
sg-fe=^
-ftt
US BIORK SI
2§p
'o./
W^\ v'*
W,,„i
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS."
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel or Black, 80s ;
Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ; Split Seconds, £3 10s.
Pure Solid Silver, as above, £5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO ;
Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s.
Gold
Cased,
£4 4s,
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct .Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
3,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Solid Gold CHAUS (Single or Double), £2 10s, £B,
£3los, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6,
£6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, three Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, with Safety Chain, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Sold BRACELET, all th« style, price according
to width, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ;
15ct. Gold, £3, £4, £5, £6.
A. .v UNDEES.
Gold Sword and Pearl Spray BROOCH, with Diamond
Heart, 25s ; loot. Gold, £2 ss.
Gold Bar Amethyst BROOCH, 12s 6<L
English Hall Marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style 2-Bar Gold BROOCH,
Diamond and two Red. Stones, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut,
£2 ; with Ruby, 85s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Style, 15ct. Gold Pearl Set Buckle 2-Bar
BROOCH, 32s 6d. English Hall Marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style, Gold BROOCH, Hall-marked,
Diamond and 2 Red Stones, 22s 6d.
Gold BROOCH, 2-Bar Diamond, with Pour Red
or Blue Stones, 20s. /
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock,
255, 80s, 85s, £2 ss,
£3; 15ct., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Forget-Me-Not BROOCB
English Hall-marked, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Our 2 Bird Gold BROOCH, 10s.
Very neat.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Good-wish Gold, BROOCH, 12s 6d ;
loot. Gold, 255.
'■>. * .'v ■
No/ 1.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4 j
15et. Gold, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price'According to Strength.
«
Very Pretty Gold BRACELET Diamond, Red, or Blue
Stones, £2 10s; 15et. Gold, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Peace Offering Gold Bird and Pearl Set
Leaf, 253 ;
15ct. Gold, 82s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.'
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget ’
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 80s ; 18ct. Gold, 85s.
No. 2.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made. Extra Strong, £B, £3 10s, £4 ;
15ct. Gold £4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6d;
with Raised Flowers each side (Any Name),
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ivy and Knob BROOCH, 25s ;
9ct. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
'
: -v, A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
loct. Gold 2-Bar Diamond Double Cut
BROOCH, £2.
. No. 3.
Ladies’ Solid Gold'Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4;
15ct. Gold, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Peace Otiering Twin Dove BROOCH,
with Enamelled Leaf, 17s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 3-Bar Gold BROOCH, Pure Diamond,
Double Cut, £3 ss. Very strong.
OsssaK):
;
A. SAUNDERS.
2-Bar English Hall-Marked Gold BROOCH,
Diamond-cut Amethvst, 20s;
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. Sa N DERS.
Solid Gold, Hall-Marked, Forget-me-Not
BROOCH, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Neat 15ct. Gold, Pearl, and Turquoise,.
BROOCH, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVERS,
Full Jewelled, f-plate,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £4 10s.
Tn Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, 10 guineas,
£l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 8, 4, 5, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold Pure
Pearl STAR, £3.
Other styles, £4, £5,
£6, £9, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Any Name.
Secret Name Gold
LOCKET. £1 ;
Pearl and Red
Stone Set,
15ct. Gold, 30s.
MIZPAH
CHARM,
4s 6d.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s fid.
Plain, 21s, or with Initials,
nicely Chased, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2 ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered).
Gold LINKS, 20s
15ct. Gold, 32s 6d
Silver and Gold, 10s;
all Silver, ss.
msT CALL AND SEE OUR
JEWELLERY EXHIBITION.
A SPLENDID DISPLAY.
OR SEND FOR OUR
1902 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED BOOK,
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
Photo Locket I;
A. SAUNDERS.
New Photo. Gold
LOCKET and CHAIN,
255, 30s, £2 ;
screw top, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
OUR PEACE KING.
18et. Solid Gold,
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2.
Extra Heavy, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sold Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d ;
3 Opals, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 30s;
3 Opals, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
66g=ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 2Es, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3. „ .
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £l, £a »
Superior duality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALT, GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Solid Gold Opal
LINKS, 30s ;
I6ct. Gold, £2los. Extra strong
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LINKS, very pretty, l'2s 6d.
Large size, 15s and 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d and 4s 6d.
18ct. Gold,
pure five Double-cut
Diamonds, £5 ;
3 Rubies or Sapphires
and 2 Diamonds,
£3los and £4 10s.
Larger Diamonds,
£6, £7los, £lO, to £5O.
hi
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 5 Opals,
J-Hoop,
£2, k'l 10s, £3,
£3 10s.
tjljyftsw
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Extra Strong and
Heavy, one or three
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 2 Hearts,
Diamond,
and Ruby, 35s ;
2 Diamonds, £2 ss.
With Name,
Band RINGS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s6d,
15s ; 15ct. Gold, 20s,
255,; 18ot. Gold, 255,
30s, 355, £2.
For Size, cut hole in Cardboard.
A. SAUNDERS. 6d ,
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers.—9ct. Solid 0' 0 ,,,,, 9 a s •
7s Od, 10s each ; 15ct. Gold, 15s; extra heavy, 255; ’
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Quality of Gold and Finish First
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
815 & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite
Railway Station,
SYDNEY.


&
TALKING ABOUT WATCHES.
TIME FLIES ON ! TIME FLIES ON !
Watch your Health before it’s gone.
P
o
ER&Co
F $
ST
RGE
337
GE
ADDED VITALITY.
Thousands of men and women are walking about, pale and haggard,
wondering why they don’t succeed, or why they are depressed, and Lok
bad, and have no energy, no hope. The whole thing is simple enough. A
locomotive with bad coal won’t keep time, and a horse with bad food won’t
pace well. A man or woman who does not put good fuel into tl t rystem
to keep up expended energy is a child. We must keep up the vital forces.
The mind and body want added vitality in some form or other. There is
no escaping that. But the vitality must be vitality: that is, it must be
the real thing—a perfect tonic for the nerves and a blood builder. We
cannot get it in full quantity with our food, so we mu t take it in a pre-
pared form. Fisher and Co. come to our rescue, fortunately, and offer us
the best and purest thing of the kind yet produced in their “ Fliospherine ”
(registered title). It is a wonderful restorer. It seems to travel like
quickfire to the energy cells of both mind and body, and makes one feel
buoyant and brisk, and fit for any work.
WORRY KILLS BUSINESS MEN.
“ PHOSPHERINE” SAVES MEN.
svi
MON
(begistered)
THE BEST MEDICINE EVER MADE.
FISHER & CO.’S
WONDERFUL
“PHOSPHERINE”
THE MOST FAMOUS TONJO FOR
Delicate Gentlemen, Ladies and Chi dren. Removes Headaches,
Strengthens the Nerves, Cures Brain Fag, Depression & Debility.
UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIAL FROM THE SOUTH.
Barrengai ry, June 25, 1901.
Messrs. Fisher and Co., 337 Georgc-street, Sydney. .
Dear Sirs,—l must write and tell you tint your PHOSPHERTJNE is a splendid medi-
cine for the HEAD and NERVES. I believe it is the BEST MEDICINE EVER
MADE. I will never be without it. It seems to brace up the whole system, and is un-
doubtedly an unequalled tonic. —Yours Faithfully, V ILLIAM HAA.
When some afternoon you lose £lOOO on the Stock Exchange you may
drink, but you cannot eat or laugh; a depressed sick feeling makes you
wish for a doctor.
The best doctor for worry, and at little cost, is undoubtedly
Fisher and Co.’s Famous Phospherine.
Take it, and in less than 30 minutes the clouds roll by, and the sv.cct
sunshine of health and contentment is restored
All Chemists, Is. per bottle ; Four Times the Quantity, 2s. 6d.
flanufacturing Pharmacy:
337 George St., SYDNEY
NEARLY OPPOSITE GENERAL POST OFFICE.
1


TO CURE SUFFERING ANIMALS.
Amost useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This
Book contains instructions for curing most
of the ailments and accidents affecting
Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Surgeons
recommend Condy’s Fluid as a certain
cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease. Thrush ,and Cracked
Heels in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly,
etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in the Foot,
Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy and
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Local sub-
stitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Flu d.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
m
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Before booking: your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THO 3. COOK & SON,
4 Hunter-st, Sydney.
269 Collina-st., Melbourne.
Don’t shout”
1 hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
"• How?' Oh some-
thingnew— The Wilson.
Common-sense i£ar-.<
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can’t see them ,
they're invisible. I wouldn’t
.know I bad them in myself.
\only that I hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
rice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
[J. CHAim». 32»-23l ColUne Help.
Hotel
Australia
BATES:
12s. 3d. per Day,
and upwards.
This beautiful hotel is fireproof from tower to
basement.
For cuisine, comfort, style, appointments, and
perfection of attendance, The Australia is the
first hotel of the Southern Hemisphere.
It is Sydney’s great summer hotel, being
situated on a lofty site, and catching every
breeze. Visitors to The Australia sleep in a cool,
pure atmosphere.
J. ÜBE SMIW (Late of Meases'),
Oaetlereagh -st, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Queensland Govt, has now decided that
Kanakas working under three years’ agreement
are not liable to pay income (or poll) tax.
Carruthers’ political organisation has a
soap-man as president and a graveyard-warder as
secretary. Emblems, a bar of soap and a coffin.
The Vic. railway revenue is falling at the
rate of £2OOO a week —£118,093 decrease on last
year up to Feb. 20th —and Bent asks, piteously,
“What can we do ? ”
The Freetrade party is still babbling about
the blessings of the “ open door ” in commercial
matters. There will be a devil of a draught if that
door is left open much longer.
Sydney Daily Telegraph is always crying
about “the Melbourne-dictated policy” of
Protection, but never mentions as “ Sydney-dic-
tated ” the policy of bogus Freetrade.
Strong pressure is being applied to the
N.S.W. Government to induce it to cut down old
age pensions to a miserable 7s. 6d. a week, and
some, at least, of the See Ministry are said to
favor the idea.
The other day an angry deputation of
deluded navvies, at the Waranga (Vic.) job,
which Messrs. Irvine, Bent and Cameron were
inspecting, threatened personal violence to the
Ministers, but finally let them sneak away to an
accompaniment of savage insults. Things like
that are liable to happen to a Bent Ministry.
A RED RAG TO A (JOHN) BULL.
(The editor of London Daily Mail say his paper’s criticism of Australian finance was based on the articles in a Sydney weekly newspaper.)
THE BULLETIN: “ Dear me, I was merely desirous of warning the lamb , and Eve frightened the lion into a fit !”
Vic. politicians hold the view that had ex-
Minister M'Kenzie gone for re-election for the
Anglesey seat he would have been sent to Parlia-
ment again, the “perversion of his moral sense”
counting for nothing.
Senator J. C. Neild again tells the public
how N.S.W. Government might have cheapened
the expenses of the old age pensions administra-
tion by accepting his offer to act as commissioner
for nothing. But the Reid Ministry fell over the
£3OO or so it paid Neild for investigating the old
age pension question for nothing, and Reid’s suc-
cessors aren’t taking any risks.
Victorian Tories are already arguing with
enthusiasm that the Minimum Wage Law should
beat once abolished because the Factories Com-
mission recommended its abolition,_ and that the
Compulsory Conciliation and Arbitration idea,
which the Commission proposed in its stead,
should only be instituted after long, deep, slow
thought and statesmanlike consideration.
From Victorian “Factories and Shops
Laws ” report:—
There cannot in the circumstances of the time be any
return to the old conditions of freedom of contract in
factory labor.
Melb. Argus tells a solemn truth :
It has been very much easier to get loan money than to
get taxation money. The very classes which urge
Governments to borrow are the most strenuous objectors
to being taxed to meet the interest bills.
Complaints of circumlocution in the work
mg of the Vic. Lands Department suggest that
the departmental policy is purely obstructive and
disheartening as regards the outer circle of selec-
tors. It is different with the inner circle. Some
applications for surrender of mallee leases take 12
months or more to complete. But a surrender
to Minister M'Kenzie, for instance, could be com-
pleted in 12 hours.
So utterly has the Victorian railway sys-
tem collapsed under Bent’s management that,
though the wool and wheat traffic is very small
this year owing to the drought, it is impossible to
find trucks enough to carry even what freight is
offering. Bent is sweating and sacking to make
good the railway deficit, while the deficit increases
every day because produce, for the carriage of
which the public is willing to pay, is accumulating
and rotting all over the State, and seems to
become more and more of a fixture every day.
A swindling London importer (made in
Germany) has been fined £9300. A cheerful com-
ment on the Australian Tory doctrine that
Protection is a natural inducement to fraud!
The so-called Freetrade policy of Great
Britain makes no difference to the importer’s con-
science. Therefore Protection, in so far as it en-
courages local manufactures and checks importa-
tion, actually lessens the inducement to fraud
which Fatman so bitterly deplores.
Scheme for the colonisation of the New
Hebrides by Australia (which lacks population it-
self) does not seem to be prospering too well. A
recent report: —
Four of the new settlers took passage back to N.S.W*
. . . because of fever and other causes. . . By the Titus
a father and family came to join the eldest son, who was
supposed to have a home ready, but found that he had
sold out and gone back to Australia. Some of our neigh-
bors seem quite satisfied as yet, determined to hold on in
spite of a little fever. The rainfall this year is below the
average, being barely 63in.
At the end of a congratulatory smirk at
the success of the voluntary conference between
the Victorian shearers and squatters, the Abgus
plaintively asks : ‘ ‘ Why could not all similar
matters be dealt with in the same way ? ” The
Gippsland coal-owners, who lately refused a con-
ference with their locked-out employees, ought to
be able to answer that question. Why doesn’t
the Abgus plump for oompulsory “dealing with
such matters in the same way ? ”
When Prendergast denounced Vic. Lands
Minister M'Kenzie’s personal jobs in the As-
sembly, M'Kenzie resigned his portfolio. When
the Committee of Inquiry found against him he
resigned his seat. But he hung on to his grazing
licence, his position as member of the Executive
Council, and his free railway pass till Toutcher
and others began to press Irvine with awkward
questions. Then he handed them in. In a man-
ner of speaking, he fell by three instalments.
In the Victorian Assembly,
t'other night, Prendergast arose
and drew a truly harrowing picture
of Vic.’s worn-out locomotive,
whereupon Bent got wild —he gets
wild easily, and is reported to be
infuriated even in his sleep —and
protested that he never cut wages
down ; that politicians were not to
blame for the state of the engines,
&c., &c. The report of the chief
mechanical engineer on the state of
the said engines is richly humorous
reading. A portioi “There are
55 engines which are quite un-
service-able, and should be broken
up. Fifty-four others are not worth
heavy repairs, and should be gra-
dually worn out. Sixty-eight others
are still serviceable, though inferior
in usefulness, making a total of 177
engines out of the present stock
which are either inferior or obso-
lete and out of running ”(!) In
place of these 55 engines which
couldn’t go if they tried, and the 54
which could try but might not go,
and the 68 which might go if they
tried very hard, it is proposed to
build 39 new engines ! Those 177
decayed locomotives were “ per-
manent and reproductive works,”
too!
In its intense desire to turn the tables on
Philp and co. the Brisbane Courier actually
admits now that white labor, at a fair wage, can
compete against the Kanaka in the northern cane
fields. After this anything may happen.
Whenever a land values tax is mentioned
in Victoria the Tory wails about the “poor
farmer,” and “ taking the men off the land.” The
1901 municipal valuation of Melbourne city —not
Greater Melbourne —was £1,384,381, on an area of
less than 10 square miles ; that of the 11 largest
shires, Alberton, Bairnsdale, Echuca, Lowan,
Mildura, Orbost, Omeo, Portland, Wimmera,
Wycheproof, and Yea, totalled but £468,552 —
about one-third of the valuation of Melbourne
city, on an area of 19,357 square miles. It’s the
Collins-st. and Bourke-st. farmer who would pay
the land-values tax.
A letter from Hay (N.S.W.) :
About five or six weeks ago a gentleman came to Hay,
representing something or other he called the “Citizens’
Reform League," convened a meeting, and preached
about politics and reform and economy till after 10 p.m.
The chairman (Mr. Gibson, mayor) who presided at that
meeting said he was very much in sympathy with the
League and its objects, and especially that part of its
platform which dealt with economy—that they must
economise in this State in every possible way, or words
to that effect. The representative formed a branch
of his League at Hay. A few weeks later the
Government started to economise, and the railway service
to Hay was cut down from six to three trains per week
because the line was run at a heavy loss to the State.’
Now the citizens of Hay are up in arms against this
“ shameful proceeding.” So, on 15th Feb., they held an
indignation meeting, and protested in strong language
against the Government’s economy. The same gentle-
man presided at this meeting, and the same gentlemen
spoke, and the same audience clapped and stamped and
said “ Hear, hear.” This unanimous desire to retrench
the other fellow is sickening.
HALF A TRUTH EACH.
LONDON, Feb. 16. —The unemployed difficulty is assuming a serious
aspect in London. Three thousand workless men held a demonstra-
tion in Trafalgar-square yesterday, and passed a resolution calling
upon the Government to provide work. The speakers attributed the
distress prevailing to the war.
FREETRADER: “I tell you it’s the war!”
JINGO: “ You’re a liar! I tell you it’s Freetrade!"
‘ Jack Shay " writes :
Bulletin asks (7/2/’O3) why has the Mongrelian fat press
ceased yelling impending ruin to the sugar industry.
Well, a local financial institution has a nearly worn-out
refinery, and a fractured mill or two, and an acre or two
of sugar-land yet on its hands, and the ruin cry might
stop the sale of them. That is my explanation.
Premier John See now appeals to the
people of N.S.W. to rise to a “higher plane of
patriotism ” —which apparently means that they
should agree to sink party differences, to say no
more about the State’s extravagance or its faded
credit, and to lie as one man about the splendid
condition of the country so that the big loan may
once more be forthcoming. A very few weeks
ago John was proud of his isolated position upon
that higher plane, and denounced the people
down below, who foretold the slump that has
already come to pass, as false prophets, pessimists,
Jeremiahs and “calamity howlers.” Now he
feels lonely up on the higher plane, and wants
the howlers to come up and keep him company.
The gentle Kanaka again. Six days’ busi-
ness at Cairns (Q.) police-court:—
Wednesday, Jan. 21. —A Kanaka fined for drunkenness
and obscene language, and a Chow charged with vag-
rancy (remanded).
Thursday, Jan. 22. —A Kanaka, absconding from hired
service (remanded).
Friday, Jan. 23. —Two nigger assault cases (adjourned),
and a Chow charged with selling grog to Kanakas (re-
manded).
Saturday, Jan. 24. —Two Kanakas fined for drunken-
ness.
Monday, Jan. 26.—A Chow sentenced to six months’
hard labor for selling grog to Kanaka; three Kanakas
fined for drunkenness, and one Kanaka remanded on
charges of disorderly conduct and-assaulting a constable.
Tuesday, Jan. 27. —Annie Sou Sing (no color specified,
probably a half-caste Chow female), fined 3s. cab hire for
being drunk ; two Kanakas convicted for drunkenness; a
Chow convicted for selling grog to Kanakas (remanded
for sentence) ; and a Kanaka fined for assaulting a con-
stable.
A Maoriland correspondent :
The newspapers here are rather full of Seddon and Fiji
just now. Our Premier is represented to have made
strong overtures to the Imperial Government about the
tyranny at present obtaining in Fiji—how the popula-
tion was decreasing, the trade shrinking, etc. We are
told that Seddon’s representations have received due
attention, and that an improvement is anticipated in
consequence thereof. One wonders why Seddon failed to
make similar representations regarding Ireland. There
the population is declining much more rapidly than
in Fiji—in fact, nearly 600,000 people have left
there since 1891, and nine-tenths of them were
below 35 years old. There the Constitution, such
as it is, is suspended, juries are packed, rack-renters
made peers, evicters decorated, while one-third of the
country is devoted to cattle-grazing. Seddon, the man
whose heart bleeds at the sight of human suffering and
misgovernment, recently travelled through Ireland,
accepted hospitality from the heads of the rack-renting
brigade—and never uttered a word against the mis-
government which he must have seen—which, in fact,
must have bitten him if it were a dog. These facts did
not escape attention here at the time, but since Seddon
has returned he has sung “ The Wearin’ of the Grane ” a
few times—and all’s well again.
Sydney D. T. plumps solidly for the maim-
ing, if not the destruction, of the N.S.W. old age
pensions system, urging
That even with the most rigid adherence to the letter
of the law, and the elimination of all cases in which im-
position of any kind has been practised, no substantial re-
duction in the annual vote is possible without amending
legislation.
But
a new class of State-dependent has been created, involving
an annual expenditure of alarming proportions, without
relieving existing charitable institutions to any
appreciable extent. In addition the Act has helped to
encourage unthrift, imposition, and actual fraud, besides
loosening ties of kinship and weakening moral obliga-
tions.
The principle of the minimum wage is also being
attacked generally by the Freetrade press—to
whose economic beliefs it is, of course, abhorrent —
and altogether it looks as if the N.S.W. Labor
Party were about to find out very shortly the folly
of its ostrich-attitude on the financial question.


Tl)€ Callagbai) Boot
HARD WEAR
FOR
HARD TIMES
You may
depend
upon
a perfect
fit and
perfect
comfort*
&
&
Duty Free
and
Post Free
17/6
16/6
The CALLAGHAN
French Calf Lace Boot,
leather-lined, medium and
square toes.
A pair sent post and
free to any address in the I
Commonwealth upon receipt j
of J
17/6
Plaaee remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note with order.
READ FOLLOWING LETTER :
“Messrs. CALLAGHAN & SON.
“Dear Sir, —Your letter and
They are quite equal in appearance
“Sept. 6, 1902.”
parcel received. I am very pleased with the boots,
to bespoke boots, and are cheap at the price.
“H.F.T., Charleville, Queensland.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 GEORGE ST. f SYDNEY.
Doctors Differed Again
BUT
VITADATIO
CURED.
READ WHAT MR. DAVIS WRITEB.
■ . Perth, June 5, 1900.
Mr. g. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—l have been invalided for about 2 years and
8 months. The doctors treated me for inflammation of
the lungs, bronchitis, and pneumonia, but failed to cure
in'e. I used to suffer with very severe pains through my
back and chest, and had a very nasty cough. I was in
the Perth Hospital three weeks, but the doctor told me
he could do no more for me, and that I was as well
as he could make me. I was laid aside for 12 weeks
at Fremantle. Th ■ landlady of the Club Hotel advised
hie to try VITADATIO, which I have done, and after
taking four bottles lam now in splendid health. I will
be pleased to answer any inquiries that any sufferer may
require in the hope that my humble testimony may be
the means of leading others to health.
Yours respectfullv,
(Signed) FREDERICK DAVIS, BAYSWATER.
Witness— W. J. Fist, Perth.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 ritt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
The Veterinarian.
TODAY'S
GIVES YOU^
FORYOURMONEY
The
Standard
Preparations
of ... .
SALVITIS
RESTORING AND CONSERVING
THE HEALTH OF
Horses Pigs
Cattle Poultry
Sheep
Dogs
SHOULD
BE TRIED
Used by Leading Stockowners.
SALVITIS INDEX of DISEASES
To be had of Storekeepers, etc.
Direct Agents for Ne w South Wales—
E. RICH & COnPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
, The minute by N.S.W Labor Minis .f
Perry practically suspends the Shearers’ Accom-
| modation Act for an indefinite time. There had
already been a suspension, and afterwards an ex-
tension of that suspension till March 31, and the
present minute carries the suspension into the
distant future. It is so customary now in N.S. VV.
to find Acts that put employers to trouble or ex-
pense suspended, while Acts pressing on workmen
are always in full operation, that it is time some-
one raised the question of a mere Minister’s right
to hang up the law in this off-hand fashion.
Bruce Smith has been lecturing to Sydney
women on how to use their votes to the best
advantage of the Smith Tory party, and, among
other things, has been ringing in his usual adver-
tisement for the Cheap Jap. Also, he urged the
Australians (in order that they may better appre-
ciate the Jap) to get over the habit of despising
other races. It was very good advice, though
with too much Jap in it. And if Bruce Smith
and other politicians hadn’t urged the Australians
so furiously to despise, hate, curse, and slay the
Boers, it would have been a much better instance
of Bruce practising what Smith preaches.
Do You
Wear
Truss
-*p
Denyer's Elastic miss.
IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture.
PRICES: 17/6 Single ; 25/- Doubls
Send Measure and P. 0. Order.
DENYER BROS. " DNEV
AND AT MELBOURNE.
Glorious Rains at Last!
More Hopeful Prospects.
Now that the drought really appears to have
broken, and prospects seem more hopeful, you
will feel inclined to invest in a Waterproof or
Oilskin Coat. In which case, post your orders to
Charles Gilbert, the Specialist in Men’s Wear,
Queen-street, Brisbane, whose values in these
goods are notoriously the best in the Common-
wealth. All coats guaranteed Waterproof, with
sewn and taped seams, at 215., 255., 30s. to 50s.
Oilskins, 15s. 6d., 17s. 6d., 225. 6d. (leather-bound
and double-lined). Carnage paid to any address.
Send a trial order to-day for anything in Men’s
Wear.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M. P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telethon* 2285. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
about a confidential Melbourne
“ Trio ’
female
seated* n^f h^? n tra ™* °“ e nl #ht l«t week, was
fc u hale ,..»;ubiound female. As we were
MK h 'B j IU . a £ ainBt » strong southerly I
~\PP enec * to shiver, and buttoned up my coat. “It ?'«
s°“,* . 80r ; r * 8l ?e whispered confldentially. “ May be oi
do "tlo° k as though oi’d feel it, but oi do, sorr, and "(the
wind P l» denti , al) “ what wid !t and the frosty
w ‘ nd ’. if , 01 hadn t himself handy on a cold noight to put
ablndeadYhUtwryew.- 8 *"* UP 1 WoUld
Brisbane Courier nowadays makes very
rude remarks indeed as to the Philp Government,
inis as to the closing of the Bowen railway:—
nZ^LT nt , 0t ln ? mediate Interest is that as the
IX® 1 ?.""® as been closed, there is equal reason why
other lines should be put out of commission. Take the
rtnkenba extension by way of illustration. Every year
since it was opened it has been run at a loss. Last year
the excess of expenditure over revenue was £3,317 ;'and
since 1898 the total loss has been £3,714, which is about
“if.i” 6 °, ss on the Bowen line in four years, not-
withstanding the way in which expenditure has been
a "™ ed , fc ° , m ? unt nP on the latter. If there is good
eason for closing the one, there is just as sound reason
th»t , he , ot , her ‘ Cyo'cs, however, may remark
e, !u a ‘ff? ? erves a company in which the
Minister for Railways are share-
dlrector8 > ar| d which has an important branch
Randolph Bedford : A 6well London hotel
whioh charges you for a bath has this rule; “ Dogs
are not allowed to live in bedrooms unless pay*
ment of 10s. per day per dog is made.” So if they
wash you at your own charge you are, at any rate,
allowed to associate on equal terms with your own
dog at your own charge also.
The Owe’Sullivan, holding forth at
Michelago (N.S W.), has again been explaining:
The Ministerial party taught the doctrine of hope,
confidence, and progress. They believed that New
South Wales was so rich in resources that there was
ample room for development, and settlement by popu-
lation. They had an abiding faith in the credit and good
name of the State, and therefore did not hesitate to bor-
row money at 3} per cent., and to invest it in public
works, railways, tramways, sewerage works, artesian
wells, water conservation works, etc., which returrjed
from 4to 5 and 6 per cent. Only a few days ago the
Railway Commissioners admitted that the Newcastle
tramways were returning 5 per cent.
Well, what does it profit N.S.W. if one miserable
tramway is returning 5 percent. ? The real point
is that the See-Owe Sullivan Ministry is borrow-
ing money at 4 per cent., and spending it on
works that average perhaps 2 per cent., and the
above yarn is a gross and shameful misrepre-
sentation which comes perilously near to absolute
falsehood.
One ounce of Sunlight Soap
is worth more than two
ounces of common soap.
SUNLIGHT
SORP
REDUCES
EXPENSE
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALfc SYRIMSE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
Jt Cleanses Instantly.
mini
HH
USE
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL.
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail
particulars and directions invalu- «
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians. ■
Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
DEAFNESS.
JN addition to the inconvenience inherent in the In-
firmity itself, DEAFNESS has a marked influence on
the Mental Development of the individual, when the
latter has been attacked by it in youth.
For a long time DEAFNESS and CHRONIC AFFEC-
TIONS OF THE EAR have been considered almost
INCURABLE, but recently a very simple means has
been found in the ELECTRICON to successfully apply
Metallic Galvanic Electricity direct to the ears, perma-
nenently curing Deafness, and completely banishing all
distressing head-noises.
Those who are interested in the subject would do well
to read the complete description of this method of treat-
ment in the “ Journal for the Deaf,” published by the
R. VERNON COY., 60-64 Hunter-street, SYDNEY,
and sent FREE to anyone asking for it.
Too Stout
I was for years ; bv chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Rupture
Free Cure.
Wouderful Home Treatment That Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. S. Rice (Dept. 268), 8 & 9, Stonecutter
Street, London, E.C., has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, danger, operation, or
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. To
avoid all questions of doubt, he sends free to every
?/
MR. JOHN 'WESLEY.
sufferer a free trial of his method, and there can be
no earthly reason why anyone, rich or poor, should
not avail themselves of this generous offer. As an
instance of this remarkable method, the cure of
Mr. John Wesley, Castle Lachlan, Inverary, Argyle,
is a welcome intelligence. Mr. Wesley is a well
preserved and highly respected gentleman, 72 years
of age. After a short use of the Rice method the
rupture healed entirely. To-day he’s sound as
a bell. If you know anyone ruptured you should
tell them of this wonderful method, which will
be sent for trial free of all costs.
• V'-
tlfe
♦*#*
ft S «;.>■ ; ;
? j, J, ■ , '
* ,
- c " E T \
The
p. D
PD
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark 5> ou band inside, as above.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
&
1?
rdt
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3sr.s,'w.
The
(|)ont deplete fl.|i|. Co., Ltd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*74. CASTLEHEAGH ST., 74
* * SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General
Tllls—*
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robirts
C.M.G. M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. R-ss Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
l’olicies issued 88,299 -assuring £26,826,380.
Amount s paid to Policyholders, £2,(67,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK. J. 8., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of j|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
M jT CANNT. (Messrs. Burns, Ph.lp * OoLtd)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . - *•• *700.000
Capital Paid-up ... ... £IOO,UUU
EeS hoMe L rs abiHty .? Shar6 ' 250 TOO *350,000
Royal BankofQueensland
CAPITAL PAID-UP IMir^ ,>
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS 1,6,239
RESERVE FUND (Invested m Government Stock) 58, 000
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Enwn. D. Day. Asst Mngr. M B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABOHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Corresponden s
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Qumpq.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
-OUTERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. BUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot Queensland, the Branch
Office, 64 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRM IN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney. .
The savings bank
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 4* per cent., in sums of £5OO to
Properties; and £2OOO to £20,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yearly. "
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER-
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4£ per cent, for 31£ years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
r- A l\l Accident and Guarantee
UQ t-MIN Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth A. W.
Farouhar J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
rARQUHAR. u. «* SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. ••
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders cOOJJOO
Total Capital
£2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) 13 4
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
* ; JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant. Manage!
2srH6TS6ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
r-
s the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued. <
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
3NT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First-Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE.
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIN. Ist APRIL.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety, and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•NINEVEH
•MORAVIAN
AUSTRALASIAN..
T. F. Gambell ...
A. Simpson
T. F. Spalding ..
Noon, March 17
Noon, April 10
Noon, May 1
London
Cape and Natal
•Calling at Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class
£55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
£3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & Co’s t ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
iV
j£%.isrx*
I UNT 353
A
via
San Francisco,
California.
FASTEST AND BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA \
\ OVERLAND J
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
The Commercial BanUing Company
of Sydney, Limited •
Capital Paid-up ...
Reserve Fund _ ...
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,010,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
.-1 r Pnwits Fso .. •. Chairman.
Hon.' H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.O.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors:
W. L. Docker, Esq. James O. Fairfax, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNFY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H b
Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches thioughouo the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. (Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks . •
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
For Sale.
TASMANIA.
NORTH WEST COAST.
rnHE VAN DIEMEN’S LAND COMPANY is prepared to
J- receive tenders for the renting of portions of their
estates situated at the Surrey Hills and to let parts of the
Hampshire Hills, and farms near Burnie.
The lands consist of rich basaltic soil, well-grassed and
timbered, and abundantly watered by numerous per-
manent rivers and streams.
The Surrey Hills Block, extending to 150,000 acres, has
lately been re-surveyed and divided into 11 Blocks vary-
ing in extent from 2000 to 24,000 acres, to suit the re-
quirements of those tendering.
The Hampshire Hills Block (10,000 acres) will also
shortly be surveyed, and will be dealt with in smaller
lots.
The lands are very favorably situated and are served
by direct railway communication with the Port of Burnie
whence there is a regular Intercolonial Steam Service.
This railway passes through the full extent of the
lands to be let and provides ready means for the trans-
port of cattle and goods to Mount Bischoff, Zeehan, and
the Western Mineral Fields.
It can also be arranged to let, if desired, smaller cleared
farms near the Coast, or houses to suit requirements
would be built in or near Burnie.
TENDERS FOR LEASES OF THE
SURREY HILLS RUNS
for a term of seven years from the 31st March, 1903, will
be received on or before the 14th March.
’ Full particulars as to conditions of lease, etc., may be
obtained at the offices of the VAN DIEMEN’S LAND
COMPANY, BURNIE, TASMANIA, where a plan of the
property may be seen.
Applicants may tender for all or any number of the
runs stipulating that only one or more of their tenders
mav be accepted.
The highest or any tender may not necessarily be
accepted.
Bv order of the Court of Directors,
A. K. McGAW, Manager.
Burnie, Ist February, 1903.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
A .Handy Manual of Politics. By James
3’jDMOND. Price, (id. ; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
M ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Miowera, March 23.
Aorangi, April 20.
Moana, May 18.
British Built Ships on Pacific and
Atlantic.
CROSSING BRITISH POSSESSIONS IN
AMERICA.
CHEAPEST ROUTE TO LONDON.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Medical.
A CERTAIN CURE Tor GRANULATIONS
and DIMNESS oT SIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to G. Specific, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.
Hygienic Water Filters
AVOID TYPHOID, ILL-HEALTH, and DISEASE
BY USING OUR
Hygienic Water Filters
With Rubber Attachment to fit any Top.
THE CHARCOAL AND SILEX
which these Filters contain is the very
Best Water Purifier Known to Scientists as it
Removes all Germs and other Impurities.
When ordering mention size of tap in use.
PRIC3E : LARGE
Srx> size,
45.,
MEDIUM
SIZE,
25.,
POST
PAID.
Agent- QUEENSLAND : ARTHUR BRAY,
92 EAGLE ST., BRISBANE.
Agent—TASMANIA : WERTHEIMER, BENJAMIN and
ANDERSON, HOJSART and LAUNCESTON.
Agent—SOUTH AUSTRALIA : AUSTRALIAN TRADING
AGENCY, GENDERS BUILDING, ADELAIDE.
Agent—N.S.W. : ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS;
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON & CO., SYDNEY,
and all Hardware and Ironmongery Stores.
If not obtainable at your Storekeeper, send to
Sole Agent, Australasia,
J. LANDES, 108 Pitt St., Sydney.
At Dawn and l)usk :
By V. .T. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE >
ADELAIDE I
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANOE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton,
Friday, March 6
(To Melbourne Only).
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, March 14.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Warrego, Sat., March 7
S.S. Rockton, Sat., March 14.
S.S. Gabo, Frid., March 21.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAND COMPANY’S
■ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
ORIENTAL ■. *5284 F. N. Tillard ... .. May 16
*Yia Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
A, GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
POLYNESIEN.. Chevalier
V. DE lA CIOTAT; Fiaschi ..
ARMAND BE- Le Coispel-
HIC .. lier
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLLsU
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meal)
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available lor return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“ ” --- » ” line.
E. and A.’
*Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE
cat
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DLAREHtEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—-
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. knever travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL HAIR. I
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you, want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CJ3FtAXG & AITKBN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Addiiess.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne


m
SllllSj
m
mm
m
m
m
Bi
©
©
©
@
©
©
@
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
@
©
AUSTRALIAN
LU
LU
LJj
LU
INCANDESCENT LA
THE EDISON LAMP
ABSOLUTELY
THE BESTS
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750 were purchased by the Melb. City Council.
LONG LIFE, HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand.
AU STRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, &c., also in Stock
Equitable Buildings,
Melbourne & Sydney (
©
%
@
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
m
m
m
(HWHJ
ffi
The Great Hair
Producer and Restorer.
FOR
THE
THE FINEST DRESSING. SPECIALLY PREPARED AND DELICATELY PERFUMED
A LUXI/1Y AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET.
“ HARLENE ” produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey. Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and
Moustache. The World-Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For preserving,
Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; for Removing
Scurf, Dandruff, &c.; also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
ROYAL TESTIMONY
“Monsieur Philosophow is commanded
by
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN OF
GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles
of ‘ Harlene ’ duly received.”
H.I.H. THE GRAND DUCHESS OF
MECKLENBURG-SCHWERIN
“ Requests large bottle ‘ Harlene ’ for
the Hair sent at once.”
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF CREECE
writes: “Messrs. Edwards’ Prepara-
tion, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given
entire satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes
six more bottles of ‘ Harlene ’ sent as
soon as possible.”
H.I.H. THE CRAND DUCHESS CEORCE
OF RUSSIA
writes: “ Please send at once six
bottles of ‘ Harlene,’ the same as
formerly sent H.I.H. when still
Princess Marie of Greece.”
I/-, 2/6, and (3 times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Chemists and Stores all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO.
95 & 90, HIGH HOLBORN, L9ND9N.
'
i
a
. I
VA
,/If
ww
\ x
Vv\
?/////,
////.•*#
‘ik
U»l
m
Mrs. LANGTRY, tfje charming Heiress Manager,
writes: “ Previous to my using H ARLENE, my hair had beco
brittle and was falling off. I have used your prepr
tion daily for 1 8 months, and my hair is quite restore
I cannot recommend Harle'ne too hiehlv.”


FACILE PRINCEPS.
BUCHANAN
SEMPER IDEM.
The Sydney amateur crack, Arthur Snrryth,
will next month celebrate his 47th birthday. Consider-
ing Smyth’s years, and the fact that he weighs over 16st.,
his recent performances on the Sydney cricket ground are
unique. Mounted on Dunlop tyres, Smyth has put new
amateur world’s records from $ to 10 miles.*
Messrs. Pateson and Cobcroft, auctioneers,
commission and live-stock agents, of 231 Sussex-
street, Sydney, are very well-known names in
Sydney commercial and produce circles. The
partnership was formed only in Sept, last, but
progress has been extraordinary. All the old
friends of the two well-known names have stuck
to the partnership; besides which many orders
have come from outside sources. The firm will
not of course do all the business of Sussex-street,
but it will do a very good share.*
“ Vul.”; Dr. Cresswell, president of
Melbourne Board of Health, advocates a diet of
raw meat for all persons who suffer enervation
from the Australian summer. There’s nothing
so beneficial under the circumstances, he says;
and a good “blow out” of underdone grilled
steak will often do wonders for an enfeebled
system. A reputable Sydney doctor told writer
some years ago that anyone with a tenderness
for underdone meats should take a pint of
kerosene at frequent intervals—a pint, say, immedi-
ately before the meal, and another immediately
after. But why he should do this that Sydney
doctor didn’t explain.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
What England Thinks.
Words of Advice.
It is always interesting to think that many of
the customs and traditions which are strictly
adhered to in a new country like Australia are
the outcome of a long line of tradition in Eng-
land. Simultaneously the same things that
happen here are occurring in England, and oft-
tirngs a message comes from the old country to
her children across the sea bearing a message of
hope and inspiration, and encouraging them in
the work they have set themselves to do. Such
a message comes from the aneient city of Bristol.
Mr. E. Bawn, of 23 Ashwell-terrace, Ashley-
road, wishes his message to be blown to the four
corners of the Empire. “I want all men to
know,” he says, “of the wonderful good Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills have done me. For
many years I have suffered from indigestion
and pains in the back, which ultimately caused
my liver to be totally deranged. So bad and ill
did I become that it was impossible for me to do
my work. My condition was almost hopeless, and
it was not until I took Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills that I experienced the slighest relief for
my sufferings. Then, strange to say, within 48
hours of first taking them, the pain and agony
that had been mine for years, began to leave
me. I continued ,jvith the treatment, and nay
ultimate was a matter of surprising
quickness. Now lam perfectly cured, with al
the blessings that health alone can bring. ¥ou
may rest assured that I shall never be. without
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.” Dr* Aloises
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier,
and a positive cure for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples an
blotches, and for female ailments. Put up in
amber bottles and the full name blown thereon.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Sydney “books” who hurried over for the
first day (Saturday) of V.R.O. autumn meet were un-
lucky. Backers had a royal time at Flemington. First
favorites annexed four of the six races carded, while
heavily-backed second choice (Chantress) for the New-
market won. But at Canterbury Park (Sydney), same
day, ’twas the other way about, and the raucous-voiced
fairly screeched with joy at the manner in which all but
one winner came their way. The big race went to
Equator, about whom 20 to 1 was available.
■ • • •
Little Chantress saved tipsters in general from
utter disgrace. They all gave ner a place among their
selections, and luckily she got a good run. With
Chantress out of the way the first six horses in the New-
market Handicap would have been Independence,
Wairiri, Boaz, Rose Petal, Mairp and Fairy States —all of
them at 20 to 1, or longer odds.
• • • *
Abundance deserves a medal. No other dual
Derby winner has confirmed his “ form ” by capturing a
V.R.C. St. Leger since Trident cleared.the board in 1886
and ’B7. It wag a novelty to see a blue-ribbon horse main-
tain his reputation in the St. Leger, as Abundance did
last Saturday. The time (3.8£) was very good, consider-
ing that the winner led from start to finish, and was never
bustled by his nearest follower. Evidently Abundance
on Saturday had become himself again, or very near it,
tholigh he looked no bigger than he was. in November,
and not quite as blooming. Ikey Mo. admitted his doubts
on the subject by laying even money against the son of
Beanfeast, but Ikey had been misinformed by the touts.
When the track-watchers get struck by the fact that a
horse of Abundance’s class is distinctly “ off ” —he must
have been much below par a while ago—they are not dis-
posed to think him capable of rapidly coming on again.
• • • *
Last year Patronus finished third for the
Brunswick Stakes on the first day of the V.R.C. Autumn
Meet. This year the son of Patron carried 231bs. more
and won the same race by four lengths in faster time. A
difficult fellow to get thoroughly wound-up, Patronus is
one of the very best on his best day. Possibly trainer
Bradfield will prefer him to his stable companion, The
Victory, if they both start for the Champion, which is
not to say that a trainer’s preferences are always
wise. Scobie expected F. J.A. to beat Sweet Nell for the
Sires’ Produce Stakes, but the cute filly beat her stable
companion. And the Newmarket running of Hicken-
botham’s three candidates —Tip Top, Fishery, and Inde-
pendence—was an awful satire on “ stable information.”
Tip Top, starting first favorite, repeated his flash-in-the-
pan performance of last year. He led the field and then
died away. Fishery also failed to come with a rush when
wanted, whereas Independence, the least fancied of the
stable trio, finished like a racehorse in hot pursuit of
Ohantress.
• • • «
Interesting that, while Chantress started second
favorite at 6 to 1 for Newmarket Handicap, she was the
only nag in the race wanted by backers at Canterbury
Park (Sydney), where one well-known punter—prominent
for years—put a big amount on her, till at last 3 to 1 was
the best price obtainable. Comparatively speaking,
Purser, Tip Top, Sir Leonard andco. were totally ignored.
Heaps of Sydney money was invested on the strength of
a dream talked of in every sporting haunt. The dreamer
(employed in a Sydney bank) dreamt, three weeks ago,
that Chantress would win and that he’d die before the
race ; he died on Wednesday. This is reminiscent of the
oft-quoted Ballarat dream of years ago when Nimblefoot
won Melbourne Cup.
• • * •
Crack M.L. nag Achilles cost present owner
160gS. as a yearling and up to date has gathered 10 races,
representing £2500 prize money There’s heaps of coin
in horse-owning if you own the right horse —which requires
much luck to do.
• • • •
The Y.R.C. St. Leger promises to provide the
usual farce which makes one wonder why good money
is still wasted over what is literally a one-horse show.
The brown filly by-Bloodstone out of Colonial Barmaid,
nominated by F. Lowen, having been left in by an over-
sight, the field is now reduced to three runners,
Abundance, Great Scott and Rienzi. . As a means of pro-
viding sport one Chinese funeral is worth many St.
Legers.
* • • •
Peculiar methods of jock up on Lockstitch,
winner of Novice Handicap at Kensington pony meet,
last week, brought about cancellation of his license and
dismissal from the ground. Pity stewards didn’t try to get
at the reasons for the boy’s behaviour ; ’tis any odds he
didn’t act entirely on his own. Others were the real
offenders. Jockeys, to live, must do as they are told.
• * * *
Winner (Claremont) of two races at Woolloon-
gabba (Q.) electric-light meeting, t’other day, is by
Bowmont from Maroubra, and was foaled 10 years ago.
* • * •
Crack M.L. pacer What, who had done the
mile in 2.18, recently covered 2m. in 4.43 and then
dropped dead. Heart and lungs were found badly
diseased. Dead nag’s latest time squelched Vickery’s
4.45 accomplished three years ago.
• • • •
At Perth (W.A.) recently Ikey rebelled against
parting with Bgs. a day for a license and swore he’d quit
the country sooner than pay anything above sgs. Cne of
the three proprietary clubs gave way and another
weakened to 6gs., which concession was scornfully
spurned. Then the tote was called into request. Owners
and trainers subsequently combined and threatened
direful things unless Mo. was re-admitted, whereat he
was given another chance to pay up to the usual tune,
and did—a split having occurred in the camp meanwhile.
There are so many of the bejewelled in the West that
their licensing fees often exceed the stake money given
away. p - . • . *
The Chinese have an explanation of their own
re the frequency of police raids on Chow. gambling
dens. They assert there is a great discrepancy between
the moneys known to have been seized and the amount
sworn to before the magistrate. At the high-toned club
there may be much gambling, but the stakes aren’t
necessarily on the table and seizable, and that makes a
great difference in the profits of the raid.
* * » *
There’sgoingto be a delightful row when the pro-
posed Australian rifle team for Bisley is picked. Victorian
shooters, owing to the success of their cracks at the last
English trip, consider they are entitled to send a majority
of the team ; while the other States want the crowd
chosen according to population and amount of money
contributed. In fact the general idea seems to be to see
that a rep. goes from every State, and not to send a first-
class team to mop up the prizes and elevate the mana of
the Kangaroo in Bull-land.
* • • •
Those responsible for the financing of Lord
Hawke’s team are certainly on the look-out for the
bullion, and have arranged fixtures with N.S.W., Vic.
and Queensland. S.A. Association replied that it could
not arrange a match. The Maoriland trip is said to have
been lean with regard to the gate, and Australian busi-
ness is being pushed with an energy which indicates that
more than expenses are wanted by somebody.
• • • •
Vic. sadly lacks a wioket-keeper for inter-State
fixtures. Hastings tried to fill the breach, but did not
fit too well. Monfries made a better showing against
S.A. Blackham was Vic.’s great stumper in early days,
and he faded away before the advent of Johns. When
Johns faded, a worthy successor failed to materialise.
* m 9 •
Maclaren’s request to the M.C.C. to wait till
the end of 1904 before he brings out his next team must
be read in the light of an interview with a London Maid
man, to whom he said that, as the Australian hard
wickets knock out his bowlers so, once every four years
was often enough to make the trip. This, if carried into
effect, means that the English team would travel here
with the returning Australian XI. of 1905.
S.A. team against Viotoria, in the last inter-
state cricket match of the season, contains only Giffen,
Hill, Reedman, Travers and Fred. Jarvis of the old
stagers. The last-named comes into the eleven again by
reason of fine all-round play in club games. Hack,
Newland, Claxton and Kirkwood, were always sure of
their places, and the oolts Jennings and Gehrs' are given
a further trial, Waters being dropped. With" Jonah ”
gone it looks a very weak bowling side.
* * • *
Ernest Jones left Adelaide last week for the
West, so that his first-class cricket is probably at an end.
Figures compiled by the Register show that he took 60
wickets in test matches for 29 runs each ; in Sheffield
Shield games, 209 for 26 ; and in three tours in England
327 for 19. He revived fast bowling in Australia in 1892-3,
and has had practically no rival ever since. At his best,
about 1896, he was very deadly, and often enough two of
the best wickets would fall to his first over. His fielding
at mid-off was, of course, marvellous, and as a bat he was
better than his reputation, especially when away from
the Adelaide crowd, which insisted on his “ knocking the
cover off.” He made 66 twice against Vic., and 82 against
N.S.W., in December, 1898.
* • • *
Canterbury (M.L.) rose to the occasion splen-
didly when local left-hander Dan Reese accumulated
that century against the Englishmen ; he got a purse of
sovs. and a bat. *
* • • •
There was another attempt to wipe out the
Sydney Cricket Ground octopus last week at a special
meeting of the N.S.W. Cricket Association. But it
fizzled out. It was an effort to regain control of the
ground, and although there are many members of the
Association avowedly in favor of the proposal, there
were but a couple who stood their ground. Altogether
the Association is as weak-kneed as the Trustees are
hungry, and the public who looked for the “ lead ” from
the Association can now rest assured that no help will
come from that direction. What is really required is the
municipalisation of the ground and the abolition of the
present gang of trustees and officials.
* * * *
Though Vic. Trumper opened in Sydney grade
cricket with 336 he has since gone down three times for|22.
• • • •
Sydney first-grade cricket is in its final stages.
Supremacy will rest with either North Sydney, Sydney
District, or Waverley. First-named two are in a better
position than Waverley, who, to win, must come out atop
in next couple of matches while North Sydney gets de-
feated twice—rather a remote contingency, but possible.
• • • •
The Hill family of cricketers establishes a record
in the number of players of one name who represent one
club; there were five of them playing for East Torrens
(S.A) in competition.
» ft * ft
Middleweight fight at Sydney National S.C.
last week between soldier Jack Thompson and Jim
Richardson was all Thompson’s way. Richardson was
only there to be slaughtered, mainly through great
comparative weakness —for his foot work and baulking
often baffled t’other chap badly, and onlookers wondered
how Thompson beat “Snowy” Sturgeon. Referee
M’Donald interfered in the third round and gave the
match to Thompson. The vanquished man, inside 10
years ago, beat the then aggressive fighter “ Pheasant,”
who had just previously given Billy Hefferman a sorry
time of it. Richardson has since spent six or seven years
in Africa and England fighting with varying fortune—
more reverses than otherwise—and seems to have lost
power completely. Getting down to middleweight limit
had a little to do with his poor shape, but not all—the
man has deteriorated physically.
• • • •
Marvellous ’Murka! Two years ago Yankee
papers reported one-time Australian middle-weight pug.
wonder, Jim Hall, dying of consumption, with only weeks
to live. Latest mail brought information that he was
“ in good health and weighed 1701 b."
* • • •
Inter-State tennis in Adelaide went, as usual,
to the Victorians, by 13 rubbers to 8. It stood at one
time, however, at 6 and 8 all, and if Bowen, .the local
champion, had not been out of health, the result might
have been different. The Victorian six, though not the
strongest possible, was well balanced. Four ladies also
made the journey, and in this department S.A. won
anyhow by 12 to 0.
• • • •
Competing against Read has apparently im-
proved S.A. swimmer Moon wonderfully. Hundred
yards premiership on Feb. 16 saw Read beat Moon in 1.8.
Same result and same time were recorded for a challenge
race between same pair (Thursday, 26th), yet on Saturday
Moon turned the tables by a yard in 1.4 4-5 (much the
speediest time either man has ever notched), and, in a
200 yards’ handicap, Moon, with 3sec. start from Read,
scored again. Is it really improvement, or did the water
make Che difference ? Races won by Read were contested
in Adelaide City Baths (fresh water), while those which
fell to Moon, Saturday, were swum at the Semaphore—
sea water. Read is much broader-chested than Moon,
and consequently has greater floating capacity, which
would tell in fresh water.
• * * •
Queensland’s swimmers threaten N.S.W. pres-
tige. Times accomplished in recent tests at Brisbane,
with a view to choosing local representatives for the Aus-
tralasian championships this month, revealed excep-
tional quality. Reported that Frank Gailey, three times
in one week, broke 2.30 for 220 yards. If this be correct,
Dick Cavill may be all out and then not win. The
world’s record (Lane’s) is only 2.28 2-5.
* * • •
Has it a parallel ? A team composed of three
brothers—L., 8., and D. Corrigan—representing Eastern
Suburbs, secured Inter-Club Teams race (200yds.) at
Bronte (Sydney), Saturday.
• * * •
At East Sydney Swimming Club’s second
carnival South Sea Island boy Wickham clipped 1.4-5 off
Englishman Tyer’s 60yds. record—27.2-ssec. Same day
and place W. Hobbs (H.M.S. Katoomba) reduced world’s
3 miles best from lh. 45m. 495. to lh. 28m. 17s.—a strong
well-sustained effort throughout.
• • • •
Dick Oavill’s record-smashing continues. At
Newcastle Monday night he swam a quarter mile in
5.29 2-5 thus knocking 2 3-5 off Billington’s world’s best
created last year.
• • • •
North, Brisbane Hamers Swimming Club’s
“ spec.” in bringing Australasian champion Dick Cavill
over as a “ draw ” for the 220 yards championship of Q.
provoked a big kick from Brisbane swimmers and swim-
ming people generally, who considered the action
would affect Australasian championship carnival this
month, which it is the Q.A.S.A.’s turn to engineer.
Three speediest Bananalanders (brothers Gailey and
Hetherington) refused to start. Conference of reps, from
the continent’s swimming governing bodies, to be held
between the 14th and 18th inst. in Brisbane, will probably
consider the advisability of restricting State champion-
ships to bona fide residents of the States concerned, and
thus shut down on “ pot hunters” from other places and
the much too prevalent practice of speculative clubs pay-
ing “ exes” of so-called amateur swimmers brought from
one State to another for gate money purposes. As things
are now it is in Dick Cavill’s power to scoop every swim-
ming championship of every State, and the clubs con-
trolling these events would be only too glad to foot his
hotel and travelling bills generally the while, where’s
the encouragement to local men ?
* * * •
The Prahran (Melb.) magistrates have estab-
lished a record by fining a man for leading a bicycle
without a light after sunset.
* • * *
Just possible that Major Taylor, when he
returns to Sydney, may find Joe Megson reaching out for
his scalp in a hair-raising manner. Just now Megson is
training particularly hard, and can be seen on the track
at six in the morning and after the same hour in the
evening with promising regularity. Providing Joseph
will keep straight and look after himself, from his mark,
twenty yards, in the Sydney Thousand he should be
able to give the scalp aforesaid a very good tugging even
if he does not quite shift it. m
Parisian sporting paper, Le Velo, gi ve ® * jj®j(
of most successful bikists in Europe and Murka last
season, and their winnings. Major Taylor the lot
with £lB62—proceeds of 60 races. Teuton Robl, who left
Australia for “down under" a fortnight ba £ k !
with £l4OO, the outcome of 20 races. Robl s chum
(Dutchman Dickentman) has last place, his haul being
S BO6 -
Bike-racing—in special matches, at any rate
is growing exceedingly hideous; and the Taylor v&r BUB
“ anything-and-everything ” contests afford instances in
point. Last Saturday, Taylor and Morgan met in Mel-
bourne in a £lOO match of three heats of a mile each.
The first mile was run in 4.20 l-ssec., and, considering
the record for the same distance is somewhere about l.zu,
the awfulness of the thing is clearly shown. Yet many
sections of the public clamor for this kind of thing, ana
deride a walking match over the same distance. The day
of bike sports in Australia recently appeared to be in its
zenith, yet such exhibitions prove it to be in the last
stages of decay. Taylor beat Morgan in the first two
heats, however, and scooped the boodle.
• * • •
E. Durst writes : —“ Apropos the drowning of
two men whilst fishing off the rocks north of Little
Coogee (N.S.W.), it is astonishing what dangers and dis-
comforts this class of fisherman —‘ rock-scrapers go
through ‘ doing-in ’ the day. Early in the morning to
sunset these habitues will stand, solitary, at the end
of a 30ft. bamboo-rod or schnapper-line, with the
result at the end of the long day of a few black
fish and diabolical-looking, barnacled rock-cod. The
rock-scraper is most consistent. In the height of
summer, when the sun is coming off the water
like heat from red-hot iron and frying the seaweed
hanging from the rocks at low tide, you’ll find him there,
behind his rod, silent, waiting for the cork to bob. He 11
be there, too, hurling seawards a much-diminished line,
in the depth of winter, his back to the icy showers of
pool-water whirled up by the biting westerly winds ; al-
ways gazing seaward watching for the ‘ bumbora.’ Only
when it is upon him he races for safety. Sometimes he
waits boo long; then something happens as on a recent
Sunday. Despite his alertness an untopped roller
sneaks up occasionally and the next minute he’s the
centre of tangled lines and a surging mass of water.
And (provided he isn’t washed off), before the sea has
poured from the rock he’ll be back on his ‘ spot’ fishing
with a complacence and patience that would shame a
Chow or a much-boiled Job. The point of reef where these
men were washed off is acknowledged by J scrapers to
be the most dangerous in the locality, and, if one gets in
there, ‘ it’s a case.’ It is popular because a strong cur-
rent sweeps into this point, then curves away to sea, and
the scraper stands a better chance here than in some
other places of hooking a fish that no self-respecting
person would give 2d. for. It is strange that ‘ rock-
scraoers ’ are generally non-swimmers."
■ • • •
Old-time sculler of prominence, Tom Kemp,
brother of Peter Kemp—ex-world’s champion—dropped
dead in his boat, last week, while fishing, aged 53.
• » * •
Sculling people look to to-day’s struggle on
Parramatta River between Dick Tresidder (Newcastle)
and Double Bay crack Harry Pearce as a more than pos-
sible precursor of a big boom. Both men are in the best
of fettle. Pearce has had world’s champion Towns as
trainer, while Chris. Neilsen has prepared Tresidder.
Pearce scales 12.2 and latter 12st. Expected that
Tresidder’s great staying power, as exhibited in previous
races, will stand to him, unless Pearce gets too far away
early, which he’ll need to do to make sure.
Not a “Wily” Cove.
One speaker at a recent Protestant demonstration
against R.C. Cardinal Moran was reported to have
described that over-energetic gentleman as a
“wily covehe took the trouble to correct the
report, and to state that he said “ wily foe.” It
would have been of more credit to his perspicacity
if he had corrected the “wily”—for a more blun-
dering and foolish person than Cardinal Moran is
not before the public eye in N.S.W. just now.
His letter to Works Minister O’Sullivan on the
St. Patrick’s Day Holiday question shows that.
Premier See refused to proclaim St. Pat’s day as
a public holiday—not for the excellent reason
which he might have given, that in present cir-
cumstances, people who wish to “ honor patron
saints” could best do so by putting in a day of
extra hard graft and lifting trie country a trifle
towards honesty, but in a somewhat weak and
hesitant way. Then Cardinal Moran wrote to
the Owe’Sullivan :
I would most emphatically ask you to request the
Premier to reconsider this decision. You will bear in
mind that those who just now are objecting in the public
press to St. Patrick’s holiday are the same individuals
who every day endeavour to heap insult and obloquy on
your Ministry. Not one of them shall be ( sic —in moments
of emotion the Cardinal’s grammar seems to get a bit off
the perpendicular) propitiated by the insult which,
through the weakness of the Government, is now offered
to the Catholic body. On the contrary, your enemies
will be emboldened by the unexpected victory to attack
you more persistently, and to secure your overthrow.
Should Mr. See persevere in refusing to make any con-
cession for St. Patrick’s Feast, it must be idle for him, I
fear, to expect that the men and women of Irish parentage
will cast their votes for himself and his friends when the
day of trial shall come.
And the Premier and the Owe’Sullivan were
foolish enough to show no resentment at this
cheeky intrusion of the priest into politics—this
attempt to put the See Cabinet before the country
as an institution which is “run” by the Cardinal,
and which must do as he says or else it will fall in
its “ day of trial.” What the occasion demanded
was a straight intimation to Cardinal Moran to
attend to his church and his millinery and other
matters which come within his province, and to
leave politics alone. That would have been a
good thing for the Government and a good thing
for Cardinal Moran, who doesn't yet seem to have
thoroughly learned the lesson that nobody—of his
own flock or of any other religious flock —wants
his blundering intrusions into public business.
At Poverty Point.
“ I oan’t quite rid myself of the idea that Mr. Wilson
Barrett ought to have been a popular preacher, and not an
actor at all. So determined is he to keep both psychology
and literature out of the piece (‘Alfred of Engle-land')
that he has written it himself.”- London Academy,
There is a lot of nonsense talked as to the salaries paid
to theatrical performers. The chief comedian, the
highest salaried man, of one leading company, is under a
£lOOO a year contract, although his friends confidently
assert that he draws £4O per week. The leading lady,
tenor and baritone draw much smaller salaries.
Kate Vaughan, the slim, golden-haired danseuse of
yore, has gone where all the good Gaiety Girls go. Kate,
together with her sister Susie (lately in Australia with
the Broughs) and two other tall girls danced a glorious
can-can quadrille at the old Surrey Gardens (London).
From there the Sisters Vaughan were engaged to can-can
at Drury Lane, lovely Kate being the star of the quartette.
She was a revelation in modest short skirts and high
kicking—black tights, black gauze outfit, and golden hair
a-hanging down her back. The sweet vision migrated to
the Gaiety as a matter of course, and was included among
the “famous four" principals—Edward Terry, Nellie
Farren, Royce and Kate. There she danced very little in
comparison with her former exertions, but she got a lot
of salary for doing it. In after years, when she danced
hardly at all, she was a charming burlesque actress of the
quiet sort, and eventually she ran a comedy co. and
played leading parts. At the time of her marriage to
Colonel Wellesley (he divorced her a few years back) it
was reported that the Colonel would become Duke of
Wellington when somebody died, in which case Kate
Vaughan would have conferred great distinction on the
British Peerage. Such women ought to be duchesses.
Wallace King, on arriving at San Francisco from Aus-
tralia, was taken to the detention hospital. The poor old
tenor-falsetto is losing his memory as well as his reason.
If he wanted to sing “Sally Horner in the Corner” he
would probably warble some broken fragments of “My
Pretty Jane." How old is the West Indian darkie?
Some 15 years ago, when he first came to Australia, he
was spoken of by Frank Lincoln as a man who had been
quite a famous vocalist in the long ago. San Francisco
papers refer to his “ acting ” and his “ jokes.” He never
acted or joked in his declining days at Rickards’s. He
just stood up—a diffident ancient very much gone in the
knees—and sang like nobody else. “Sally Horner” b«
Wallace King was an inimitable thing.
The other night several hundreds of Chinese, women
and children, packed themselves into Sydney Empire
theatre to enjoy a Chinese “ opera.” Matters went celes-
tially until some hoodlum at the back yelled “ Fire,” and
in the stampede which followed three Chinamen were
injured and a lot of furniture was destroyed. There
wasn’t any fire. The alleged white man who raises a false
alarm of fire in a crowded theatre isn’t exactly the sort of
mate this paper would like to go prospecting with. And
Sydney Evening News refers to the affair as a huge joke.
Conjurer and illusionist Davis—just returned to Mel-
bourne after a successful tour round the less-known
parts of China—relates how, at the invitation (or com-
mand) of the Viceroy of Yeu-Sho, he gave a show before
that potentate’s numerous wives and friends, and was
afterwards invited to supper. The Viceroy then sug-
gested a game of poker for “ small stakes,” and after
several games, played with varying fortune, Davis dealt
his opponent four kings and himself four aces, and
various other fine hands. Having accumulated on his
side of the table over £5OO Davis stopped the game and,
after informing his losing host that he could win as he
liked, pushed all his winnings back across the table.
The great man was much impressed and offered to pay
Davis liberally if he would teach him some of his
wonderful deals—doubtless with an eye to future games
with brother viceroys and mandarins.
When W. H. Denny arrives under engagement to
Mr. Musgrove there will be four of the original Savoy
caste of the “ Gondoliers ”in Australia. W. R. Shirley
(“ Fortune-Teller ”), Wa”ace Brownlow (Tivoli), Chas. R.
Rose (Amy Castles co. and Melba opera), and W. H.
Denny aforesaid.
“ Melb.”: The Calculating Boy does Inaudi s feats,
except that he cannot manage anything like such
enormous masses of figures. The boy’s boss, presumably
his father, explains how the additions and multiplications
are done from the left, instead of the right, with a saving
of work. He shows how anybody can fix the days of the
week, as offered in the problems. An ordinary person
can do any of these in three minutes, with a slate First
you have to fix in your head a series called the Golden
Numbers. Then there is a division process. The re-
mainder gives the day of the week. Thus Ois Saturday,
I is Sunday, and so on. Some of the old-fashioned Church
of England prayer-books explain this process in their
calendars.!
“ A. 0.": Re par. about menagerie at Watson’s Bay.
The first Zoo was run by a man named Billen (1847 to
1856). When he died, his widow took over the stock, but
hashed the show. He had been a lion-hunter in South
Africa and other parts, and caught most of his own
troupe. Among other eccentricities, he drove two zebras,
tandem fashion, to town. Widow Billen, after slaughter-
ing the zoo, opened a waxworks in George-street. [This
narrative becomes more difficult as it goes on. Is it
really implied that Widow Billen slew the lions and other
trifles personally with an axe? If so, what size of a
woman was she? —Ed. B.J
Adelaide couldn’t. stand the net-ball game, and
manager Marcus gave it best at the end of a week’s run.
Either the game was differently played in Melbourne and
Sydney, or the taste of the Holy City music-hall patron
is above or else below the average.
That Victorian litigant who brought to the Practice
Court a long epic poem as his argument on a mortgage
transaction was, probably, inspired by the recent revival
of “ Paul Jones,” which has a really tuneful number in
which merchant Bicoquet sings about ships, beets, rum
and f.o.b. sugar quotations.
Dampier, speaking of son Alfred to an Adelaide
audience : “ I wanted him to study Shakespeare, so that
in years to come he could play ‘ Hamlet,’ 1 Othello,’ etc. ;
but my son said he’d sooner play Ginger Joe (‘Bush
King ’).'” Which only goes to show the sound common-
sense of Alfred, jun. The Ginger Joe type of drama
spel s cash pretty often, whereas the Immortal Bard s
plays seldom do.


Should send to us for their supplies.
t a deaI he ° f kM ° f Frait in —on.
, d ° nt deal ln low-grade sorts. We aim to simiih
only the very best at lowest current market prices. P 7
litmus 0 " 11117 fruit ‘ dealers t 0 Set into communication
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE
CO. Ltd., SYDNEY.
Taught
Physical Culture
by Mail
W E nn t ou " ce the establishment of a De-
with nnr Snffi Ph / ( ! lc f 1 Culture in connection
fi 2® C f ne - v ' The Director of this
Sare-ent rAmoJ^ 1 "' D radfor< i- an expert in the
ftargent (American), Swedish and Sandow Systems.
Condensed System, fifteen minutes each day,
HETLTH°PH'v«Tn O AT dI^ tions ’ wiU ensure GOOD
™S% P S7ND o iro E B V OD“ P “ OT ' “ d E “ S '
C Nl eS Con ! ti Pation, Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, Nervous Exhaustion, and Revitalises
the whole body.
wHlTi'd hL b °h>\ SeXeS> ranpins in age from 12 to 60,
will find benefit from our instruction. Full informa-
tion furnished in reply to postcard or personal inquTry.
Canada. Cycle and Motor Co. Ltd.,
3 57 George Street, Sydney.
Franz Josef Lager
THERE IS NOTHING BETTER.
•• • •
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN
BUY A
YOU
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney
Jrtemlng-ton Arms Company,
Head Office : 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to sis
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Special Sale of Second-hand Bikes.
It is the seaaon of Sales, and we keep up the custom. Now is your time, for never before in
the history of cycle-selling was such a cheap lot of bikes offered for sale as we offer now All
sorts, from £3 upwards, guaranteed in perfect order—to make room for our new ’1903
RED BIRDS, now on the water. Country customers can send in their money and denend
on us to return full value. F
Branches in every state. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., Sydney.
We have just landed a very special stock of high-grade Sporting Goods.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OP INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign ot copy-
ing on the original.
x:
It- keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original. 6
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much monev bv its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
Agents for Australasia: E. RICH & CO. LTD. V BYDNEY BRISBANE
The latest development in connection with
Sydney’s North Shore Bridge—which will pro-
bably be built so me day—is the alleged offer of “a
large company in Great Britain” to the
bridge and take payment in Government deben-
tures in lieu of coin. The original tenders were
referred back for modification some months ago,
and are due again on March 18. If the alleged
offer really exists it should take a load off the
Government’s mind. In any T case the bridge will
be built out of the usual borrowed cash, and this
is really a chance to borrow the cash without the
usual publicity and obloquy.
By Special
Appointment
Gr. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in while drill, dec. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Eat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hate,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Homberge.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hate. Stetson Hate.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Eto., Mads to Order
The N.S.W. State Government is now
wasting good cornstalk money in the law-courts
trying; to demonstrate that the proviso in the
Constitution that the Australian Government
shall not tax “property” belonging to a State
covers “goods” also. It wants to have it de-
clared that everything a State Government
imports must come in free of duty, and, if the
State Government chooses to act as sole and
general importer on behalf of the people, then
everything must come in free. N.S.W. loses
nothing by paying duty on its State imports, for
it gets the money back at the distribution of the
Federal surplus, but the habit of being sour and
nasty to the Commonwealth Government urges it
on to spend the people’s money in digging a big
hole and then filling it up again.
The costly and useless law proceedings set
on foot, with a “strong bar” on each side, to
decide whether the State of N.S.W. should pay
duty to itself (as it gets the duty back from the
Federal Government that is practically what it
amounts to) on its own imports began humorously
enough. When the court started its three-hours’
argument on the point of jurisdiction, Acting
C. J. Stephen thus carefully delivered himself—
I understand, in a general way, that the Collector of
Customs is an officer of the Federal Govt., and not of the
State at all. I may be wrong, but that is my impression.
Of course his Honor very well knew he was
stating an appallingly obvious fact, and the court,
which pondered thoughtfully and judicially over
this utterance, knew it too. But the Bar must
live— at least it thinks so ; though why it should
live only the Bar knows.
Again tha champion mean man—a Vio-
tonan storekeeper, being asked for something to
help to decorate tne Church of England for the
harvest thanksgiving service, gave three potatoes
on condition that they should be returned at the
conclusion of the service. He had a boy waiting
attheohurch door with instructions not to leave
the holy spot without the spuds.
Mr. A. H. MASSEY, Shieldsville, Minn.,
writes: 9
“ Our only daughter had A SEVERE COUGH, which
continued to grow worse for over a year. We thought
BTOlrW^aaKTO^SSTHr*''^ 10 "" 1
Retribution came with a heavy hand on
one William M‘Nab (a good name under the
circumstances), who carried out a sheep-show
iraud m Victoria. At an agricultural show the
wealthy M‘Nab was judge in one of the sheep
sectmns, and he went to an enormous amount of
trouble to enter his own sheep through a dummy,
and then awarded them prizes. The value of the
prizes wasn t enough to make any difference
to a man of his wealth, but he' took what
he could get. Result, a charge of conspiracy and a
ftne of £5OO. It’s only Ministers of the Crown in
Vmtoria who are allowed the use of dummies.
Rut between M‘Nab and M‘Kenzie. isn’t the
party which backs the Kyabram economy move-
ment getting shown up a good deal ?
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills, All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Engine! J?^ armaceu^ demist, Southampton,
The recently initiated opposition to
Queensland’s Continuous Government by Brisbane
Courier is proving a thorn in the side of the
Jrnilp gang, in so far that the public is now being
treated to truths which were hitherto carefully
kept dark, much to the profit of Philp and Co.
At Toowoomba show, t'other day, both Premier
I blip and Minister Dalrymple confined their
remarks almost solely to a bitter, heartfelt curse
on j*'^ Courier. The Courier, Observer,
and Queenslander, said Philp in great anger,
were run by one man with three opinions, said
pP ,I ? I °ns being those of E. J. Stevens, but be
(Philp) didn’t care a rap for Stevens’ political
opinions which, at worst, could do the Govt, no
harm. But, in reality, Philp’s gang has held office
so long mainly by the support—that is, the sus-
tained lying—of the Courier and Co., and now
its days are numbered unless it can patch up the
quarrel.
SHARPSHOOTIH6
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK l
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. •
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
■ F you wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W.W. CREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
The criminal sittings now current in Ade-
Mide have introduced a new terror for the inter-
state evil-doer. Hitherto, his offences in other
States have been a sealed book, but by an Aot of
last year they can now be enquired into, and a
convicted criminal may have to face a further
charge of “having been convicted of felony at
Sydney in August, 1900.”
Missing Friends.
■ F CEORCE KENNEDY (son of GEORGE and MARGARET
KENNEDY), formerly of Ararat, Victoria, will
communicate with the undersigned, he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
If dead, his representatives should communicate.
Any information acceptable.
r. j. McCullough,
Solicitor, Barcaldine,
QUEENSLAND.
It' this should meet the eye of ANDY MILLON
who left Taili ape, “North Island, New
Zealand, some _ 6 years ago, or any friend
knowing his whereabouts, would he or they kindlv
communicate with the undersigned, who will
supply news of beneficial character,
G. N. JENSEN,
Taihape,
North Island, New Zealand.
pOR NIGH A CENTURY
WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR
has been the FAITHFUL FRIEND of the
m TONSORIAL ARTIST.
wi't I wTv7J', E .. POTE o 1 ' Phrase - “THIS SHOP USES ONLY
WILLIAMS ! is a Sure PASSPORT TO PUBLIC FAVOR.
Send a Penny Stamp for Williams’ Changing Face
Puzzle. Can you explain it? J. B. WILLIAMS CO,
Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A. ; and 232 Clarence-st., Sydney
lIS
MB
TjiOß the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
- 1 - ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
71
To
Vechicle
Owners
am
U
n
¥
Kelly
There’s No Comparison
between vehicles fitted with the popular
Dun lop=Kelly
Solid Rubber
Carriage Tyre
and one fitted with Ordinary Iron Tyres—the former glides along without Wise and
Vibration, instead of the usual rattling and vibration associated with iron tyres.
IF YOU WANT COMFORT whilst driving, a postcard to us will bring in return our
Illustrated Catalogue and Price List, which you will find of interest.
Sole Australasian Agents—
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre 00. of Australasia Ltd.
108 Flinders Strest, Melbourne,
And at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, X.Z.
S.W. DEPOT:
150 Clarence Street, Sydney.


f
<jr.
u.
%
1
\W
V>-
/■
m
r%
»
I* | “% ?/ J— 7,
I !)j
fir H
f I V V\
U 1 1 v
://///>*>\\\
The Lancet says ~
' We found that OGDEN’S ■ GUINEA >
GOLD' CIGARETTES were composed
of light Virginia leaf, and WERE QUITE
FREE FROM OBJECTIONABLE
; FLAVOURING MATERIALS • *'
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Purity of Raw Material.
f»/n mflkfi thorn fit for smokintr Ae-ain if poisonous chemically-treated paper is put round the tobacco the Cigarette is bound to be injurious to the health of the smoker.
We o r »ly°tli(f i^absolut^ly oharmless) 0 harmless) tobacco is used in GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES and the paper round them
not to be in any way hurtful to smokers. Get a chemist to analyse a Guinea Gold Cigarette, and find out for yourself if we are not right in our guarantee.
o GDF JV’S, LTD., SYDNEY.
An uncivil correspondent-
I put in a day lately at Wellington (M. L.). It is the
smallest of the four big towns of Maoriland—the seat o
Government, and little else. “Apartments,” “Board
and Residence,” and the gentler hint of “Something
House ” show that one householder out of every three
keeps boarders. The town is ugly—no gardens, houses
jammed on to the street, antiquated trams, no citizen-
ship. From one point of view, the most prominent thing
among the Gothic tips of the roof of Parliament Build-
ings is a huge ventilator, leading into the Lower Chamber,
and painted red. I have an idea that the inside would be
found of a brilliant blue. Not far away is Parliament-
street ; it consists merely of several flights of stairs. I
also struck something new in descriptive signs. Stretched
across a window was a mysterious white garment, with
frills and lace boundaries ; an envelope pinned above
read “Ladies’ Nurse."
A letter about justice in British New
Guinea: —
It is oftimes said that murder is no crime, and, to judge
bv the sentence passed on the native for the deliberate
and premeditated killing of the resident magistrate at
Mekeo (B.N.G), it must appear to be a meritorious action
in some people’s minds. The punishment meted out to
this cold-blooded murderer was two or three years
imprisonment. Said imprisonment consists now in acting
as orderly to the gaoler in Samarai, and the miscreant
can be seen walking about daily, full of self-importance.
Truly an awful and awe-inspiring example to other
Papuans for the killing of a white man ! Speculation is
now rife as to whether Government will pension the
prisoner on completion of service, or simply make nun a
policeman. The odds are in favor of the latter, as it will
give him further opportunity of distinguishing himself.
Not generally known that the deceased officer was,
during Sir W. MacGregor’s time, dismissed the ser-
vice by the Council with the Chief Judicial Officer as
chairman. The Administrator was absent on a short trip,
and on his return reinstated him without any explanation
to the Council. Was in Port Moresby at the time and
naturally looked for further developments, but the re-
buff was born by the Council with Christian fortitude.
Harry Morant and his sorry fate, told of
in “ Bushman and Buccaneer ” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Pietersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Booksellers and Bulletin office (post free Is. Id.)
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEC
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not bow being cured.
Sendatonce for
ALBERT S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Earringdon-street, London, England.
Agents t i'CLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
w
FREE TRIAL
for 90 Days^w^
Not a penny down. Simply drop me a ] o'xt.d
card, with your name and address, and 1 will fu. w.i.d
you at once one of my latest Improved High-Grade
Electric Belts. You can use it for three months; then
pay me if cured, and the price will be only half what
others ask for their inferior belts. If not cured, you
can return the Belt to me, at my expense, and YOUR WORD WILL DECIDE. lam
willing to trust you entirely, knowing that I have the Best and Most Perfect Belt used in
Australia to-day, and nine men in ten always pay when cured.
I WILL TRUST YOU.
This modern Belt is the most perfect and complete ever invented. It will cure all
cases of Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion. Lumbago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and
Stomach Complaints, Nervousness, and all Weaknesses of Men and Women.
FREE
A beautiful, illustrated Medical Book, which should be read by all weak men. This
will be sent Free, sealed in plain wrapper, all charges prepaid. It is free, and can be had
for?the asking.
Don't neglect this splendid opportunity to regain your health. We will make a
written diagnosis of your case FREE. Write To-day.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
w
/
|b:
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism! Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALFALINE Vitality Fills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassinussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair, but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured By
ALF ALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
RASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . . .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office—
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW—
547 George St., Sydney,
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N-Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH = 481 Hay St.
KALGrOORLIE : 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY s Piesse St.


Just what you need
for
Indigestion
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets.
Pries, 1/6
Indigestion results from taking too much
food or some article of food of difficult
digestion. There is a feeling of distress and
sometimes severe cramps of the stomach,
nausea, vomiting, and sometimes purging,
but most often constipation.
The vomiting is beneficial as it relieves the
stomach of the indigestible food, and when
the bowels remain normal and there is no
cramping pains of the stomach, no medicine
whatever is required. All that is needed is
to let the stomach rest, take no food until
hungry, and then only a small amount of
milk toast, until the stomach is strong enough
to digest other food which should be taken
sparingly at first. When there is constipa-
tion, two of Chamberlain’s Stomach
and Liver Tablets should be taken to
move the bowels, and one tablet each follow-
ing day for three or four days until the
bowels become regular. If Chamberlain’s
Stomach and Liver Tablets act two freely
on the bowels, take only one tablet every
other day.
NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chamber-
lain's Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be Bent, post paid, upon
receipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 124
mm
m
H
II
!
PS
at
saSHs
WITH GREENER BOLT AS DRAWN, THE “ WARATAH,
60/-
WITHOUT GREENER BOLT, THE “ WONGA,
50-
BAR LOCKS.
Left Barrel Full Choke
Right Barrel Cylinder Bore.
For accurate and close shooting this gun cannot be surpassed, made of Best
Materials, and equal in finish and workmanship to guns of three times the
price. Barrels are Browned Twist, carrying a high polish. BAR LOCKS, Treble
Bolt, half-pistol hand. Hammers are well down out of the line of sight. Vulcanite
heel-plate on best selected polished walnut stock. We will supply one or fifty of these guns to anybody. W«
have only one price. Send your P. 0.0. with orders to —
CARRIAGE PAID.
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
Sydney Small Arms Co.
57 P O. Chambers,
Pitt-st., Sydney.
r
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Heiidon.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, Melt>ou.rne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
ROB ROY pens.
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, oy
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as tlie
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured f r
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6d., Is. & gross boxes.
, WELLS & CO., Birmingham,
England.
HINKS
A NEW BROWNIE KODAK
For Pictures 2£ x 3£ Inohea.
rts*
TS
I^ODAK Limited,
And of all Photographic Dealers.
The No. 2
BROWNIE
KODAK. .
Ptfiee 10/ s only.
LOADED AND UNLOADED IN DAYLICHT.
•end for Illustrated and Descriptive
Leaflet and mention this paper;
284 COLLINS STREET,
... MELBOURNE.
THE WORLD'S GRANDESTTT' "
-^CIGARETTE
swe S 5
(VIRGINIA GRAB*)
No. 555
Absolutely Unique in Quality.
A Ravelutlon to all Olfarette Iwnktra
No. 999
Obtainable of all Leading Tobacconists.
Bole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.
Manufacturing and
Dispensing Chemists.
We have special remedies for the correct and effective treatment of Nerve and Blood Diseases. Testi-
monials from all sources proving their efficacy. Write for Printed Price Lists ; they will be mailed free.
NOTICE.- Our ELECTRIC BELT, price 10s., usual price £l, is infallible in the cure of WEAKNESS and
STOMACH DISORDERS. Electricity re-invigorates the vital nerve sections, governing the processes
of digestion and nutrition. It effects a sure cure. DR. CLARKSON’S “ RE-INVIGORATOR,” a
VITALISING, NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT. We still offer £lOO for
any case we cannot cure. Price, 7s. 6d. per bottle. Three bottles, £l. Post Free to all parts of
Australia.
Pyramid Pile Cure.—A certain remedy.
Fincham'e Face Bleach.— Clears the skin from Spots, Redness, Roughness, Frecklss, Tan,
Sunburn. &c. Invaluable for use in the country.
Fincham’s Infallible Worm Powders. — Specially suitable tor children. A certain cure for
worms.
Fincham’s Celebrated Pectoral "Couch I Cure,” —Invaluable for children. A Reliable
Remedy for Croup, Asthma, Whooping Cough, and all Throat and Lung Affections.
Fincham’s “ Gout and Rheumatic Cure.” —Takes certain effect in cases of Acute Lumbago,
Sciatica, Lame Back, Headache, Shoulder and Muscular Pains.
Dr. Hughes' " Fits Epilep.” —A certain remedy tor Epilepsy and Fits in all forms.
Dr. Wilson’s “ Neuralgia Mixture.” — One Dose Relieves, One Bottle Cures the most
agonising Face Neuralgia.
Fincham’s "Capiline.”—A Nursery Hair-Wash for Children’s Heads. Unsurpassed. One Bottle
Sufficient.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be posted to any Australian address, securely
from breakage, on application to—
Note the Address : THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
C. P. FINCHAM, Pharmaceutical Chemist. 227 ELIZABETH ST., Opp. Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
The “Enterprise " =====
Rubber Massage Roller
Makes, Keeps
and Restores
Beauty in Na-
ture’s own way.
The cap-shaped teeth have a
suction effect on the skin that
smooths out wrinkles, rounds out
the beauty muscles, and gives per-
fect circulation of the blood.
It is so constructed that it treats
every portion of the face and neck
perfectly, even to the “crow's
feet” in the corners of the eyes.
Price of Roller - • - -
(with FREE Sample
Jar of “SKIN --
FOOD")
4/6
Post
Free.
THE ENTERPRISE CO.,
When ordering pleads mention thi« naner.
MELD#
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT (
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT. AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
INJ EVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book •
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages
price, 4s. 6(1. ; postage, 6d.
LADIES.
Uoiiw-LD.I.i
WHITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
300 Collin* St., Msltoourno
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGH»Sj
The Inky Way.
b«en to cut downthe circuktion'of tlw a M e i e h dron(rht
penny weeklies—the Times a.ntPthmj' 9 Me bourn ® three-
papers divide farie«w Thes « two
There is no Mallee cookie sopoor h^t,” H betw « en them,
and few rich (or ambitious! enmLh doa ? n t get one,
The strong point of the Times ;? b °t better,
murder cases, pictures ofthef‘‘^eneo*M;'he^ e ph , ot ° 8 - of
x shows where the woman fell J? urder ~ th ®
woman,” and so on The r mm, P^ 0 *- 0 - of the murdered
once heard a Mallee man o-iv« ' Wrl p er » however,
the Times that there was too much Ha for .Preferring
Leader. The AuotlalW?2 £ u° h j iash l ed wadin’ in the
the two namedfan^ncreasintl„ a, !™ Sho i llder3 abova
It is rather curious that the Age week
such a comparative frost, while the AdA™ Leader) is
Australasian) is a great succesa The l < the
mistake was dropping to threenence V reat
from the Australasian fxcept Ü bv°thefciH tell w the Leader
the Australasian is the K , » By the wa y.
hasn’t got that abomination, “a children’s Th^
say m “ the office ” that Svme and hi« »r>n P g They
over the Leader than they do over the Age
a good chance for a big advt now Tet\- D - d ha ?
drought-stricken cookies a free tL ? ive all
castL*ponL;^e , wa^ri^ o (rta' , *^ In<>B^^*,r **** dyK^*
been out of harness since ’59. In that vear he eh!
reporting staff o *’ a , nd A wo years later the Argus
SS c?SJ‘iJsS?T
sSS^^sxssasssii^ssix
OHtic inPhnrPh S S ortat f°-h que j tion - His sketches, “ The
ur 't>° ln Lhurch, contributed to the Daily Telegraph
Motion Lfih republish ? d ’ & rea tly pleased the religioui
pressman stflwT™ S “ ith ia the on ‘y Melb.
pressman sun at work who was a contemporary of
Willoughby sin '59. The Ancient and Hony One Lvith
and 60^s he haS overtaken the other scribes of the 60’s
• • * •
ost of the Australian correspondents for Maoriland
papers, even the Liberal M.L. papers, seem to be hopeless
r aerVatlVes - Melbourne scribbler for the Otago
ft 8 t WB f mU H h P ertur hed in spirit when the M’Kenzie
row started, and wrote to his journal that Mac was a
strict member of the kirk, was above suspicion, and yet
had to endure the indignity of an inquiry ordered by
Parliament. The time is coming in Australia when for a
kirk” Ln Parll f ment t 0 ba a “ strict member of the
kirk will simply cover him with suspicion. Every
peculiar politician and fraudulent commercial man
seems to be a canting hypocrite also
* * • •
‘ Half-Double " r It has often been remarked of late
ru a r S v tbat the mfluence °f the Age is diminishing, and
that it is not the property it was a few years ago. A
glance at its recent Saturday issues, however, tells a
different tale. The 20 pages are stodgy with advertise-
ments, and the whole paper fairly reeks with prosperity.
The political unfairness of the Age is generally
set forth as the cause of the alleged loss of prestige.
.No doubt the paper is scandalously unfair to its
opponents. Its policy is to kill a political opponent
in . the shortest time, and in the most unfair manner
possible. It is certain that the rebuffs the journal
has received would have damaged it if there had
been a rival morning daily. At present, for all practical
purposes, there is none. The Argus exists only for the
purpose of showing what a good people’s paper in all
essentials the Age is. During the week ending Feb. 7
the Argus every morning patted the House of 48 Rich
Landlords encouragingly on the back for some fresh
attack on the reform movement, winding up on Saturday
with a nauseous set of political notes to the same effect,
until even case-hardened Argus readers began to feel
sick. Twice has the Argus had a chance to cut in on the
Age. When it dropped to a penny, numbers of Age
readers thought it must be better than their penny paper,
but. the Argus didn’t hold them long. Again, in the
Speight-Syme trouble the railway men in a body left the
Age for the Argus. Two big provincial Age agents told
me that they lost all the railway men then ; but that,
without a noticeable exception, they all came back.
-) Was °. nc ® a flourishing mining town,
the contmi^i'L RI6CORD considerable influence in
end pnn ?'P all . v of “ Cousin Jacks "
House of Reotoa e ?‘ fi^ n oae days Holder, now Speaker,
th« o? a o:^*T, B^ tativeB ’ owned the Pap*'? and boomed
L f 811 w T as worth - Wi th the decline in the
oS-an is now e, i; the B H r r a ha* gone down, and the local
•ndL™L?7v. staggering in a very bad way. To makes
vwtisS himseff e P ( r ( e r ae otative of the Fourth Estate ad-
Makw as Letterpress Printer, Picture Frame
inoi,STk ’ Odder and Plushmaker, Photographer
Und*^* ht Operator.- In addition to which he is
SlssfS'wSsis. 1 8011001 teacher * “ d WhBt DOt-
_f* • • •
There s a possibility of a new Sunday paper in Sydney
to^ate°Sat n ifrdavh heatri<?al or K a n, with special attention
o? d w happenings and any sensational events
wench w®/*; No s Pace will be reserved for the servant
burninJit h hea kl f W how to boil water > without
lfc ’ or h° w to make custards without eggs ; and
Ucoml l?* t f"? Ti C 5 spa 2“ for that wench when she
IT™ depraved and does things she didn’t ought to.”
ahead v e^H Se 18 Sa i’ d t 0 haVe oapital behind it, and has
. ad ® P oyme 11 1 overtures to members of the


When the uneven M.L.A. loses his
balance and makes unruly observations in ‘The
House/’ he has in nine oases out of ten been
imbibing inspiration from the bottle with the
wrong brand. The wise parliamentarian or busi-
ness man who adheres rigidly to not too muon
D.O.L. never makes an enemy of his head just at
the moment when he needs its best assistance.
He puts a friend into his mouth to ennoh his
brains, not an enemy to steal them away. _D.O. Li.
is the friend of all right-drinking persons.
DRYSDALE’S ANTI BILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss a PP e “ te >
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. V. J. Timbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.®
“ Barbara ” on the servant-girl question :
I have employed servant-girls, and 1 know their ways ;
and I have been a servant-girl, and know that side, too.
In six weeks I lived in six houses as a “general, select-
ing six types of mistress. In one house that of a titled
Australian of repute and style—the inferiors were con-
stantly endeavoring to get some of their back pay ; and
the food was wretched. In another place, where fish
supplied the Friday’s dinner, I was given one sardine for
mine. Next came a “ Christian household, in which we
had abundant spiritual diet, but very short commons
otherwise. Here the kitchen-girl worked for her clothes
only. Never work for a “ high-class Christian family, the
female head of which is generally a cattish old woman
who thinks a girl is "not respectable who toils for her
living. My other places, notably a laborer’s home, were
excellent. Good food, a good bed and reasonable wages.
On the other side, 1 have employed girls at 12s. per
week who were absolutely useless; and in all my ex-
perience of helps 1 have only known about a dozen who
could wash dishes cleanly. I’ve been handicapped in the
bush with a large house, hungry men, a sick patient, and
a woman-servant, who for six* weeks wore one pair ®*
unwashed hose, and couldn’t boil potatoes without
burning them. I have had a cook who threatened to
brain me because 1 objected to her boiling a treacle-
pudding in the same pot as the corned mutton and
lsn’t it possible to form a domestic servants’ union,
protective of both employer and employee, and controlled
by competent leaders, possessing the power of disquali-
fying a member who is proven to be a thief; also the girl
who is unduly insolent to her employer or incapable of
fulfilling duties for which she engages on the strength of
a reference. The union should fix a standard wage for
capable “generals,” laundresses, housemaids, occ., and
endeavour to prevent the “ scabbing ” of “ lady-helps,
who “ slush ” for ss. or 6s. a week. It should fix another
wage for the weaker ones, who require light places ; and
make it a strict rule that no servant shall work for un-
remunerative wages, shall sleep in a comfortless room, or
receive more prayers than food.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation tor straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
If John Ball wants a working and
toy army he wiU find it necessary to drive f
2EI pestilential snobbery now nfe.
London Daily Express reports
The men of the auxiliary forces a “ d .
were promoted from the ranks for d S _ o^e( j ( n the
during the war are, in many cases, being J c
officers’ messes,of the regiments to
SfSTSI JSSifESw »nd
SJSZ& S l hu h ,‘t m On. «mc.r comfljin. tot™
r^ssSsaa h J5a^ to *jga«
expenses, too, are being forced up with tne
driving him out of the corps.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any caseof
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
h<w long standing, or money rrfnndsd. On,"
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a^ ’shSt
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDIGUN*- w -»
lane, London, England.*
“Galvo” sends this from Auckland
people have the cheek to
does not exercise proper control over expenditure.
Allow me to supply an instance to the contrary, oome
time ago it became necessary to make an examination of
sundrv sewers, with a view to preparing survey plans of
levels y eto , fOT some additional work that was required.
One engineer had the savory job allotted to him of crawl-
in,r through the sewers with a dumpy level, and suppl >’
ine the figures from which others made the necessary
plans. When the work was completed, the draughtsmen
were paid overtime according to the hours entered 1: n the
time-book, but the man who put in the lon^ 8t b°urs
and did the hardest and dirtiest work, was paid nothing
on the ground that the dept, had " no official check y,"
his time ” while he was underground in the sewera He
revenged himself by hanging his sewer clothes in the
office among those of his more fortunatebrethrenbißas
the boss made him take them away again, it was poor
consolation.
GrO XO HELL-
KiOLANI* for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo»
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
ALMOST
EVERY HUMAN ACHE
Is RHEUMATIC In its origin.
Rheumatism is caused by TJrio Acid Poisoning'.
Goat is caused by Urio Aoid Poisoning.
Neuralgia is caused by Uric Acid Poisoning.
Lumbago is caused by Urio Acid Poisoning.
Sciatica is caused by Uric Acid Poisoning.
Blood Disorders are caused by Urio Aoid Poisoning?
Gravel is caused by Urio Acid Poisoning.
Stone is caused by Urio Acid Poisoning.
Bladder Troubles are caused by Urio Acid Poisoning,
WHAT IS URIC ACID?
Ukic acid is one of the many products of the wasting of the body. Every moment we live the
body is wasting, and it is the duty of certain of our organs to remove the waste matter.
THE KIDNEYS.
To the kidneys is allotted a large portion of this task. The kidneys of the average person filter
and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this quantity of urine should be
dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains, in weight, of uric acid, together with other
animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. If the kidneys from
any cause are unable to do their work properly, some of these substances remain in the system, and
become actively poisonous. _ Uric acid is the most dangerous of these poisons. When it is deposited
in the joints and tissues, it produces Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica or Gout. In other
cases the blood, being contaminated, is rendered unfit to absorb nutriment freely and we suffer from
Anaemia, Neuralgia. D gestive Troubles, Blood Disorders and Debility. Sometimes the
uric acid is deposited in the kidneys themselves, and then the frightful pain caused by Stone,
Gravel, and Bladder Troubles is experienced.
Thousands have kidney disorders, and suffer from urio acid poisoning, without knowing the cause.
The most common indication that there is anything wrong with the kidneys is
PAIN IN THE BACK.
A more certain test to make is, to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a
covered glass, and let it stand until the next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a brick-dust like
sediment, if particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color; then the kidneys are not healthy,
and no time should be lost in ensuring their restoration of Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some
less serious but more painful illness will be the result.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
About thirty years ago, Medical and Scientific men, realising the importance of the efficient
removal of urio acid, and other waste poisons from the system, made special research with the view to
discover a remedial agent. They realised the fact that it was necessary to discover a medicine which
would act specifically upon both the liver and the kidneys, as, when the kidneys are affected, the
liver suffers in sympathy, and vice versa. The outcome of their research was the medicine now known
throughout the world as Warner’s Safe Cure. This medicine possesses the desired property in the
fullest degree, and though over a quarter of a century has passed since it was first discovered
no remedy has yet been developed of like power. It acts equally upon the kidneys and liver’
restoring them to health and activity, when all urinary and biliary poisons are of necessity
removed from the system in a natural manner. Warner’s Safe Cure consequently cures Rheuma-
tism, Gout, Backache. Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia Gravel
Stone and Bladder Troubles, Anaemia, Debility, Indigestion, Torpid Liver. Even
Bright’s Disease yields to treatment by Warner’s Safe Cure.
Mr. T. J. Castner, of 8 Victoria-street, Paddington, N.S.W., says “ Some time ago I was
under medical treatment for severe pains in the back. The doctor who attended me wanted me to
undergo the operation of crushing a stone in my bladder, but I did not like the idea, although the
pain 1 was suffering was severe. A friend advised me to try Warner's Safe Cure. I did, and? after
taking some three or four bottles, I began to feel better, I continued the course, and, thanks to this
medicine, l became free from any trouble whatever,
A treatise containing particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and the diseases it cures will be
sent free by H. H. Warner ah‘d Cd.-, Liirrited, Australasian Brantb, Melbourne, Vic.
RARE.
BOOKS
FRENCH,
BNQLISH,
GERMAN.
2/-
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box 116 PARIS.
Amusements.
mutoscope.
H E
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
now on view at
KING STREET ARCADE CORNER,
and
74 OXFORD STREET.
Real Life Portrayed with a Vividness and Realism
Never Before Witnessed.
ADMISSION FREE.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
.. .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Bland tiolt.
YCEUM
Lessee .
Sub Lessee
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S Latest Melodramatic Production
THE COTTON KIND.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
/■a R I TER IO N THEATRE, SYD NEY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager .. Mr. Frank Weathersby.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
FUN ON THE BRISTOL
SAT., MARCH,7, the Sensational Comedy Drama,
WHEN THE LAMPS ARE LIGHTED.
Specially Written for John F. Sheridan,
by George R. Sims.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN in
7 DISTINCT CHARACTERS 7
FIRST “ LAMPS ” MATINEE, WED., MARCH 11.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d. & Is. Box Plan and Day Sale
at Whit* Rose Confectionery, Royal Arcade, 269 Pitt-st.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
Manager, Mr. T. P. Hudson.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES and ' SENSATIONAL
SUCCESS of
MISS NELLIE STEWART
and George Musgrove’s New
ENGLISH DRAMATIC COMPANY.
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
kALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Management of Messrs. WILLOUGHBY
and GEACH.
EVERY EVENING,
EVERY EVENING,
SPLENDID SUCCESS of
the WRON6JVIR. WRKSNT
A COWAN, Manager. _
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
Positively the Last Nights of TKE MONTROSE COMPANY
Enthusiastic Reception of MR. JOHN COLEMAN.
Big Success of London’s Great Comedian and Raconteur,
MR. W. C. HUNTER.
An Entirely New and Original Repertoire by
MARK ANTHONY.
SPRY and MONTI, PEARL LOVELL, MALVENA
MOORE, PROFESSOR MACCANN, EDNA SEATON,
and all our Great Tivoli Co. i
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30p.m.
Enthusiastic Reception of MISS GRACIE EMMETT.
Splendid Success of FRED POPLAR, Miss KITTY WACER,
DIAMOND DUO.
ELSIE M'LACHLAN. LES WARTON. MAY LEWIS.
BIOSCOPE. ,
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is. ‘feA Plan at Allan a.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Return of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
grand comic opera CO.
EVERY EVENING,
THE FORTUNE TELLER,
A New and Original, Romantic Hungarian Comic Opera.
The Finest and Most Expensive Production of Lomi
Opera Ever Given in Australia. t
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allans^
Theatre royal,
Lessee
MELBOURNE.
Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hend.v. Treas., ’* u "' 3 i tion
WILLIAM ANDERSON'S Famous Dramatic Organisano
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
IN THE SHADOW OF NIGHT.
SATURDAY, MARCH 7, MAN’S ENEMY,
headed by Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN, #
Prices —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at^AUanj.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Lessee, Mr. G. H. Hunt. Manager, J. F. MacJlano
SECOND WEEK of
Australia’s Greatest Actor, AL F R X IA MS ON,
the Celebrated English Actress, MAUD WILLIAm
supported by the Full Strength of the ramo
WOODS-WILLiAMSON CO. .
Maud Williamson’s Adaptation of Hall Caine
Remarkable Work,
THE C H RISTI a. ]V ’
ETY THEATRE, MELBOURN E.
Ul Lessee, Mr. G. H. Hunt. Reps., Mr.
STILL BOOMING,
THE CAIETY NOVELTY ENTERTAINERS.
Mrs. Harry Carroll, Harry Leggett, e / on Marie
Boy Calculator, Cissilie Whitford, Nelly Sheddon,
Lloyd, Miss Lilian Knight, &c.
Over 60 People Engaged.
And Everyone Repeatedly and Enthusiastically nco
Quick and Lively From Start to Finish.
CES—Is., 6d., and 3d, ; Reserved, 2s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
Under the Direction of Mr. J> G. Till-
. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas.,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in
rHE 3ES G- 81 911 A ’
Interpreted by a Novel and Interesting Cas .
tCES AS USUAL. Box P igL
lISS MARY ROBINSON’S
FIRST MONTHLY RECITAL
- place on SATURDAY, 17th MAR 9J’ ig a t t s > Sinir’
ns ton-st.. 2.30 p-m. Well-kiwwn A >’ tlB “ AS
p.m. Well-known
Visitors invited.
Alice M.G. : You bought Smith’s Creek shares
at 18s When they were selling at 235. your broker told
you that a syndicate had been formed which was going
to put them up. to 30s. They are now 16s. 6d. A lice,
where art thou ? You’ve missed the bus. Glenflne South.
If you can sell these at a profit do so.—— C.H.U.. u is
not fair for you to abuse your broker for buying dredring
shares for you. It is his business to do what you ask him
to do—his not to reason why, his but to go and buy.
» • •
The mining industry is Queensland’s great
stand-by just now. Charters Towers supports a popula-
tion of 22,405 people. The revenue collected amounts to
£13,061, and 1781 miners’ rights were issued for the past
years. Value of gold produced from thejuines by miU
treatment was £784,054, an increase of £78,164 on_the
previous year. Tailings treated by cyanide totalled a
value of £274,931, while alluvial produced 13500 z. Total
value of gold output for the year, £1,101,467, not in-
eluding concentrates sent to Aldershot.
Smith’s*Creek (N.Q.) closed its second half-
year on Jan. 10, and the dressing plant got to work three
weeks afterwards. The co.’s funds are gone I *”*
directors have made satisfactory arrangements pending
realisation of concentrates. Adelaide, where ?v
the shares are held, is still divided into two bitterly
hostile camps with regard to mine and stock , now t e
mill will have a talk, though it will not straighfroff decide
the thing that most needs deciding where N.Q. ventures
are concerned—that is, whether the stone lives down or
not. It needn’t surprise anyone to see some of the
reserve shares shortly put on the market.
Bellvue Prop., Mt. Sir Samuel (W.A.), ia
gradually coming into favor with investors. Co. has_a
20-head mill running, and is turning out JL
150 Doz. monthly. The developments at the three levels
opened up proved so satisfactory that it was decided to
increase the plant by another 40 head and work the mine
on a large scale. This new mill was ordered some time
ago, and, to meet the extra demand for ore which its
erection will entail, a new main shaft has been started
and is already down 80ft. The new mill will not get to
work till well on in the year, but, once it gets g° ln K. bo.
should jump into the front rank of gold-producers. Near
the surface the ore was considered to be very refractory,
being impregnated with copper, and a lot of money was
wasted in erecting a fancy plant, waB
started-in fact, was never completed. That the refractori-
ness was more imaginary than real is proved by the fact
that the tailings contain only 6dwt. pf gold from 30dwt.
ore, showing an extraction of over 80 per cent. At the
lower levels it is found that the copper gradually dies out
and the ore becomes very free milling. Co. recon-
structed a year ago with a working capital of £70,000
cash, and, as it has since worked at a profit, it is finan-
cially in a very sound position. #
Lake View South (W. A.) has bought the Robin-
son mine, Kanowna, and intends thoroughly prospecting
it Above the 100 ft. level the mine turned out 34,149
tons of ore for 31,4510 z. of gold, worth £llo,o°°, and
paid £BOOO in diva. Co. then broke up, and the om«
has been under tribute for the past two years. At the
200 ft. level the reef is fully 12ft; of solid quartz, but the
value is very low, gold only occurring in rough specks
here and there. No work has been done below this level,
so that the mine has never had a chance of proving ltB
real worth. For the sake of the extremely patient share-
holders in the South it is to be hoped that this new
venture* will prove an unqualified success. Major Judd,
who runs the show should be in a very good position to
judge, as he has had control of the Robinson mine for the
past two years. # •
Kanowna Consols (W.A.), a reconstruction of
the Pride of Kanowrra and Waldon's Find, ha 9 again got
to work after a spell of enforced idleness. Additional
capital of £2650 has been subscribed, of which only £ll2O
is available for mining. With this sum the manager
reckons that he can put the mine on a payable basis, but
he is a sanguine individual. The money will be gone in
three months with very little accomplished. Co. owns a
10-head mill, and has treated several thousand tons of
ore intermittently, but has never had enough working
capital to open out properly. Mine is splendidly situated
on a hill between the North and Q.E.D. leads from which
such an enormous amount of alluvial gold was won four
years ago. # # m
Cosmopolitan, Kookynie (W.A.), which has
been hampered in its developments by water difficulties,
has now got its pump fixed, and no further trouble is
anticipated. Developments at all the levels opened up
are proving satisfactory, but, owing to the water trouble,
it has been impossible to keep ore reserves much ahead
of the mill. The new manager Mr. H. A. Shipman, late
of Stratton’s Independence, Cripple Creek, is knocking
things into shape, and, before long, the gold output of
the mine should be materially increased. Co. owns 455
acre* or more than all the Kalgoorlie gold producers
combined. All the work hitherto done has been on the
Englishman reef, and, as the exploitation of this ore body
is considered quite sufficient for one co. s it is proposed to
float a subsidiary co. to work the Altona reef, on which a
little prospecting has been done.
* • • *
Great Boulder (W.A.) is starting in earnest to
open up the 1300, 1400,1500, and 1600 ft. levels at which
very little work has been done hitherto. At the 1600 ft.
level the lode, where tested, is 16ft. wide, and Is worth
about loz. per ton. The 1200 ft. level, which was sensa-
tionally rich at the start, has maintained a good average
throughout, and is one of the best in the mine. All the
levels below 600 ft. are practically untouched, so that the
mine has 1000 ft. backs in reserve. What that means can be
tranced from the fact that co. has already treated 400,000
tons for 783,000 z., and distributed £1,332,000 in divs. with-
out even depleting these upper levels. As a mining in-
vestment it can easily be seen that this co. offers a unique
opportunity. Its only fault is that a lot of itsalleged
assets should be written off out of profits, as they are
absolutely valueless. Were this done co. s position
would be unassailable.- Of, course it must be borne m
mind that the ore now being treated is of considerably
lower grade, and the gold of much poorer quality, but,
giving that in, many dividends are in sight.
Lake View Consols (W.A.) is opening up fairly
satisfactorily, the total ore-reserves now being estimated
at 91 000 tons, containing 74,0000 z. of gold, or (say) a
good 15 months’ supply. The average of the ore is only
164 dwts . but as the costs have been -materially reduced,
this grade of ore can be profitably treated. The main
shaft is down below 1400 ft., at which depth a level s
being opened up. The Perseverance lode shows payable
values at 700 ft. and 1000 ft., but is poor at 800 ft., while
the L V lode at the 1000 ft. and 1200 ft. levels is practically
valueless where tested. The mine is so patchy that a
rich bonanza may be found at any time. The Elmore oil
treatment plant is nearing completion, and should be in
a position to demonstrate its virtues, or its vices, next
month. . ,
Bill Maxwell, Goldsmith’s Creek, writes
Re “Working Miner’s” statement (B. 17/1/03), A
notable feature of the Etheridge is that, at, sav, ®Joft..
the reef changes to white buckstone, and all trace of gold
is lost” Taking the claims mentioned by him, the Nil
Desperandum was sunk to 400tt„ the stone from 300 ft.
was all crushed with a return of approximately loz.
17dwt. per ton ; tailings from same now being treated by
cyanide process, averaging loz. per ton ; average value of
o-old 60s. The stone taken from sinking: of shaft below
No 3 level returned 12dwt. gold per ton. No driving
done from the bottom. The stone taken from winze
below No. 3, sft. reef, returned 22dwt. per ton. In the
Queenslander, ore crushed below No 2 level averaged
14dwt per ton, assav value of sand from same 12dwt.
The big reef averaged, above 160 ft. level, 135dwt. per’
ton : ore mined from 260 ft. level yielded 14dwt. per ton.
The Cumberland, which “ Working Miner has not men-
tioned, has been worked to 1050 ft. from surface and ore
mined and crushed on both sides of the shaft for the
whole of that distance. The main shaft on this reef is
1150 ft on the underlie. The Durham has been mined to
a depth of about 432 ft. from the surface, and the last
crusmng taken from the bottom yielded 25dwt. per ton.
Re the 9oz. crushing'“Working Miner” saw valued at
- ton many .very old hands on this field have tried
forego wTcrushine of which the gold was worth 80s.
per oz., and have failed to do so. ,
Npwlv appointed German trade commissioner
to Australia announces re preferential tariff on English
goods “If any *pe dal restrictions are put on German
good*' the German Government is pr p P^ with re-
torlfl c,,owtl kWp


ELECTRICITY IS LIFE.
BENJAMIN
FRANKLIN
drew Electricity
from the clouds.
We confine elec-
tricity in our
Electric “Invig-
orator ” Belts,
from which it
issues in cura-
tive currents
for the benefit
of sick men
PROGRESSIVE SCIENCE.
What do the world’s scientists declare to-
day? That Electricity is a useful agent in the
cure of disease. They are aware that nerve
life in the body is the electric power by which
we live, breathe, and have our being. What
do the electric X rays do for the cancer-
stricken patient ? It cures in many cases. So
with the anaemic, nerve-palsied man, walking
the earth like a shadow amongst men, he
electrifies his run-down nerve-system and
lives to enjoy his life. Let any man deficient
in nerve-power, no matter how powerless he
may be, wear our Electric “ INVIGORATOR n
Belt, which we sell for ONE POUND ONLY, for a
few hours each night and undergo a course of
our Electro-Medical treatment and he will in a
i-N
vs
\\
>\\\^
mm
m
\\
N> N
4\\W\ xxWWWW \\\\ \\V
HR
Hiii
m 0
m
wmmmm:
ipJlfay.. „1
If;
iiliii
i
2%
ii i*
rja::::::::Hm*«:;...:
aan
xTwdii~::"i=
1
■
PWJ 1..1tv :::::::•: ...::
i hili &te ~ -::r^Krt:N:;<fT::::;:r::i^:H
|. -
ill j
HXX
I ii £
V- 1
ig?
w -x
H*::
IVW
lasi
V7>
&
\\ " r:
,*> -SSWfc.,^
iE::::::;::::;::::::»HH::£i;;xlI;;!:::::;;;:;::::ffK::i:;;;:;t::sH::;:::::;::::
./ ~\Vl v ■
IplHji
K*n
few weeks be a new man. Power will return
to his vital organs, strength to his brain, vitality to his nerves, and the perfect working of every organ of
his body will endorse a new lease of life. The cured and the healthy say of this wonderful curative system •
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Mr. DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P., ex-Minister
of the Crown, one of the most active associates
of the political and commercial life of New South
Wales, in a recent letter declares to us :
“I have worn one of your famous
‘Belts,’ anrl it has benefited me much.
For years I was troubled with severe pains
in the back and kidneys, the legacy of an
attack of lumbago, which has now, I am
happy to say, completely left me.”
AFRICA.
Mr. CHARLES AVINGTON-DUNLOP, sta-
tioned officially at Durban, sent us the follow-
ing lines after a two-months’ course of our
treatment:—■
“I can assure you your medicines
have done me much good. I have
every sign of ultimate restoration to
health, for which I thank you. Your
Electric ‘ INVIGrORATOR ’ has cer-
tainly stimulated me very much.”
MAURITIUS.
The manager of a large sugar plantation,
Mr. 0. R. CASTLES, in Mauritius, treated for
chronic liver, tells us we restored him to health.
Here is an extract from his letter :
“In reply to yours of the 20th inst.,
I continue to improve, and I am
better now than I have been for
years. Your Electric ‘Belt’ has done
me much good. I shall continue to
wear it.”
NEW ZEALAND.
Mr. T. M. HUNTINGDON, mining expert,
writing from Christchurch, N.Z., notifies us as
to his progress and recovery from diabetes, from
which he was a sufferer for years. He says :
“ I cannot question the efficacy of your
treatment of Nerve and Kidney Diseases
by Electricity and Medicine. The elec-
tric current from your ‘INVIGORA-
TOR, ’ has, with your medicines, worked
wonders.”
NOTE ! Our Fees are: Advice and Medicine, ONE POUND ONLY.
BEAR WELL IN MIND that Electric currents to patients should be adminis-
tered under the care of a skilled Physician whose knowledge of Electro-Thera-
peutics is reliable. In some cases certain functional nerve-diseases may be cured
by the wearing of an Electric Belt alone. There are THOUSANDS OF DISEASES WHICH
IT WILL NOT BENEFIT and is dangerous to the patient when worn.
When under our treatment you are under the care of a qualified Physician, registered by
the Medical Boards of Australia, England and America. (See N.S.W. Registered Practitioners’
List.) Dr. Richard Wallace, Physician-in-Chief, is an internationally registered physician, and
a specialist of great reputation in the treatment of NERVE, BLOOD, STOMACH and
BRAIN and KIDNEY DISEASES.
Our Electric “ INVIGOR YTOR ” Belts are the best sold in Australian medical prac-
tice. They are not expensive. But they are genuine. They are locally certificated, locally
manufactured. We publish a certificate of efficiency from a high electrical official. Read it,
then read our prices.
Copper Plate ... £1
Silver Plate ... £1 10
Solid Silver ... £3
Solid Gold ... £lO
Always remember our £lO Belt contains 2oz. 18ct. gold, and £8 is allowed in exchange if
it is necessary to return. We pay duty to all Australian States.
Book Explaining Disease.
The latest compilation of the Medical Staff of the Institute,
“ Clin cal Experiences,” a magnificent work of 550 pages,
150 medical plates, thoroughly explains, in an illustrated
chapter of 30 pages, the application of Electricity to diseased
nerve-centres. It is full of valuable information of interest to
residents in the country, where medical men are few. It is
not a mere pamphlet, but a fine, genuine adviser.
Post Free, All Addresses,
ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
Electrical Expert says.
MR. ARTHUR C. F. WEBB, M.1.E.E., a high official in
the Electrical world and late President of the Institute Elec-
trical Engineers, Sydney, says, after testing our Electrical
“INVIGORATOR ” Belt
“The current is a continuous one as is
used for medical purposes,”
We are the only registered firm in the possession of such
valuable local certificates granted in favor of an Electric Belt.
physician-in-IJhief’s Diplomas.
The Phvsician-in-Chief to the Institute, Dr. Richard
Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., R, L.F.P.S., E., L.M., is regis-
tered by the Medical Boards of
NEW SOUTH WALE 3
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
ENGLAND
and
AMERICA,
Late Homoepathic Hospital, Melbourne, and Imperial
Army Medical Staff.
SIR DOMINIC CORRIGAN, Bart., Physician to the
late Queen, says of him : —“/ entertain a high opinion of Dr.
Wallace, in respect to his professional qualifications .”
in cases of INSOMNIA, PALPITATION, RHEUMATISM, GOUT,
INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA, BLADDER INFLAMMATION, VARI-
COCELE KIDNEY TROUBLE, or LIVER DISORDERS, electricity
carefully 'applied has immediate beneficial effects. Where the blood is
charged with uric acid through bad kidney processes, the current stimulates
the nerves governing the kidneys into healthy activity. Mr. Philip Newbury,
the eminent tenor, who suffered from uric acid in the blood for years, says:
“ Since wearing your * Invigorator ’ / am completely cured
T >° FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-IVIED I CAL J
SURGICAL INSTITUTE <
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D , L.R.CP., E.,
L.F.P.S , F., L.M , Physician-in-Chief.
Medicines packed Free -from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly attended to.


Vicious curates in metropolitan churches
are seriously considering whether they should not
bring their working conditions and remuneration
into the Arbitration Court. The sweating
of' lower-class clergy is as bad as that of
drapery assistants. Those at the top of the
profession are on velvet, have their trips to Purope
when they like , and dangle their fingers in the
hands of royalties, but the men who do the real
graft of religion pressed to get new soles to
their boots. When the amalgamated Sky-Pilots
Association brings its case before the Court and
demands a living wage it should be a notable
episode.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages
The Best Collection of Short Stories and Literary
Sketches yet produced in Australia. Price, 4s. 6d.;
postage, 6d.
They have quaint notions about infectious
illnesses in Otago (M.L.). Scarlet fever.had been
going the rounds in the district, and little Jennie
and Jock had been taken ill while on a visit to
aunty, and had gone safely through the disorder
on her premises. When they arrived home after
the illness, each dear child clasped a sealed en-
velope as a present for ma, On opening the
envelopes that parent discovered the peelings off
the skins of Jennie and Jock which aunty had
carefully preserved, so that no part of those chil-
dren should be lost.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
the famous remedy fcjei
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. S ufferers from infects a most^om'
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those w oire sujec Asthma to become chronic,’nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
till" medicine. No hoL should be without it, us, taken at the beginning, a dose is general!, sullioieut,
tnd a Complete Cure is certain. BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
DURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
•Mr. neame. — . , ,
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. —,
>f London, England, from whioh you will glean that
• our medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
•olds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
>e mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
>ortion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer,anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
t was.—Yours faithfully, •”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
trrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
nuch interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
Tom a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
•upplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS' TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, i wish to add my testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
uonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
dvice and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
■ours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
m a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
vonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY."
We the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
tearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
sctly and rapidlv successful under circumstances which
ndoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
"I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
••Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick * only gave him four doses,.and haveof
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M DONALD, Tnnkey, ma
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.-A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Kenny-st, Paddington, Sydney.”
Q
« Mv wife is 8° years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful it having qiickly cured us boih.-R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford.
Victoria.”
©
«< i US ed one hottle of your Th om hit,is Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me. —(Mrs.) JOHN RAUILLY, G.eiimaggic, Victoria.
O
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine. —JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
©
«• i have finished the Bronchitis Cure yoti sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegopg, Morutidah, N.S.W.
®
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses. —C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.
«Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly. — C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
Valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” ©
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle. —W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” ©
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.— 11. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis. —A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria. ’
•
« y our Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW Enochs
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
« The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
" Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others. *
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.’
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack ol
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.VV.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chamters, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fust to any Address when not obtainable Locally
THE
SMELTING t REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
, . Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, eta
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. —*Z -2 &—z
For all Information regarding Kates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Hapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
«
1J
&
The London Medical Record
savs “It is retained when all
other foods are rejected."
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger's Food has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own."
Benger’s food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


No. 17989. —0 ct. Gold Leaf and WUhboo*
Brooch, 11* fld.
No. 0537. —501 id Silver Bean Shape
Match Box, 8s 6d.
No. FBl9o.—9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar, i
and Heart Brooch, 8s 6d.
%
V.
A
%
N
tesj
No. Gl4. —The Nurses’ Watch, Keyless,
Open pace, Engraved Silver Case, fine
Jewelled Lever Movement, Warranted
Reliable, 32s 6d.
We have looked long for a good
Nurses’ Watch, and at last we
believe we have secured the
very one wanted.
No. 112.—Handsome 9ct. Gold and Fine
Amethyst Brooch, 18» <sd.
Our Variety makes Suitable Selection Easy,.
BUYING as we do for Eight Stores, each as Well-Stocked as our Sydney one, means that we
ave advantages offered us such as no Jewellery business in Australia can claim. We have
. Mr warehou »« «n Hatton Garden, London, manned by Experts who see more goods
Vfrv 24 . "‘an most buyers see in la months. You see thus that we can offer you the
__JT ™ R th ® H ?“ e market at <*»cinatingly low prices. We don’t keep all the advant-
ages we get to ourselves-we pass them on to you. A most important point, and one we adhere
”‘I WC ” eV *r •• crlflce the quality for the sake of being able to quote a very low price for an
e j. Quality is our first consideration. Remember this when you want anything in our line,
as quality must count with you as well as with us. Illustrated Catalogues Free on application.
N<x BB34L—Solid Silver and Pearl Book-marker, 3}in., 4s; larger, 6a 6d.
%
No. FBlB6.—The Latert
Lace Pin, Emu or
Kangaroo, 7s 6d.
No. F773l.—Novel Style Salt
Cellar, with Spoon, Silver-plate,
4s 6d.
No. FB2ls—Cut-Glass and Solid
Silver Toilet Bottle, 5£ inches
high, 22s 6d.
F7066.—0ct. Gold, two-bar Ornamented
Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. G29B.—Polished English Oak and Nickel-mounted Double
Inkstand, £1 ss.
No. F7550. —9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar and
Leal Brooch, 8s 6d.
No. E4933.—Fruit Dish of Pretty
China, 7 inches square, strong
Silver-plated Staid, 7s 6d.
No. F2j.ju— silver-plated i<ern
Pot, handsomely chased •
4in., 22s 6d ; s£in., 37s 6d.
No. F 5908. —Solid Silver Bowl on Ebony Stand, f>§ inches
high, 7£ inches wide, £lO 10s ; in best Plate, 84s.
Illustrated Catalogue Pos' free.
No. FssBB.—Case containing 2 Pearl and Silver-
plated Butter Forks, 14s 6d.
No. EB7S9.—Best Quality Silver-plated Tile Centre
Teapot Stand, 10s 6d. ;
No. £6797.—9ct. Gold Brooch, set Sapphire, Euby
and Diamond, 16s 6d. . .
No. F493B.—Case of 2 Cut-Glass
Silver Mounted Knife Bests, 11/6.
No. FB7o4.—Remarkable
Value. Diamond, Ruby and
Sapphire Scarf Pin or Pin
and Stud, Fine Gold Settings,
£3 10a.
No. E 5627. —Strong 9ct. Gold Twist Bracelet.
A Pretty Style, 32a 6d
iamo7it
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL . ♦ ♦ ♦
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THESE IS ONLY ONE . .
CUHOrilll
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone $ Typewriter [td.
This is a “JUNIOR MONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other £3 to £l4 10s.
§
T is well to remember this when discussing the artistic merit of sound reproducing contrivances. There is little
difficulty in reproducing a sound. There is, however, a gigantic difficulty in reproducing good music, and the actual
voices of famous singers. We would ask you to remember that THE GRAMOPHONE made by The Gramophone
and Typewriter Ltd. does this. How do we do it ? Why, because we have unlimited capital at our back, and because
we do not hesitate to obtain the services of the finest and most celebrated artistes of the day to sing for us. The better the
artiste the better the song. The public are the best judges in the world of the intrinsic value of an article. We are selling
FIVE MILLION RECORDS
npr armum _and why ? Because our records are real reproductions of these singers. Our catalogue includes records made
by Carusa, Plancon, Renaud, David Bisphatn, Ben Davies, Andrew Black, Richard Green Joseph O’Mara Mesdames Calve,
Suzanne Adams, Kirby Lunn, Esther Palliser, PerCival Allen, Connie Ediss, and Mane lpmpest. Also Dan Leno, George
Robey, Louis Bradfield, and Maurice Larkoa, besides hundreds of others.
Australian
Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 tittle Collins Street, Melbourne.
8 SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
Represented all over
World.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA —
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


The present curse of Maoriland is hat-
badges. You are out of the social swim unless
you go about labelled. Besides school badges,
there are old boys’ colors for most schools, and
every athletic club has its monogram —cloth of
silver or gold, according to the social tone of the
institution. The volunteer pins a gun-wheel or a
bugle on his cap. Even the youth attending a
shorthand class wears a monogram of the cheap
and nasty “ Commercial Academy.” The first
thing to be done when a new football club is
started is to settle on the club’s hat decoration.
Of course, to the public at large, most of them
mean nothing, but the wearer seems to derive a
lot of comfort from the label.
A social etching—by “The Man ” :
•* It is the last time ”... he murmured ; and his voice
broke into falsetto in spite of himself. Decidedly he . had
not practised enough. The girl buried her face in hei
handkerchief, hysterically moved. He hastened to give
voice again. “ But when I return ”...
The woman brightened inwardly : perhaps he meant
Business after all. The silence was fraught with ex-
pectancy. ......
“ I shall certainly call,” he concluded with
caution, wondering inwardly as to the next move. A
pause and he remembered. The passionate embrace . . .
Lacerated with hat-pins he extricated himself with
some difficulty, and with a shrill cry of “ Farewell!
turned majestically on his heel. He was forced to repeat
the manoeuvre, recollecting that he had still to take her
“ I have been premature,” he reflected, and the retreat
began. Inwardly two minds were doubtfully wondering
if theafifair had‘to be repeated i: external conversation
discussed sea-sickness and the iniquity of cash drapers.
At the historic gate a fully-matured voice from the
balcony solved their doubts, advising his fair companion
to step inside sharp and wash her head if she wanted to
that blessed night; her pa’d been waiting two hours foi
the bathroom. „ , ..
“ Nothing matters,” he mused disgustedly in the
shadowy street. “Nothing matters at all”.. .
Then he ran a very purposeful half-mile to catch his
train.
The newly-enfranchised women voters o)
N.S.W. should read The Bulletin’s “A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond.
Post free from Bulletin office for 7d.
SICK MADE WELL
WEAK MADE STRONG.
Marvellous Elixir of Life Discovered
by Famous Doctor-Scientist That
Cures Every Known Ailment.
Wonderful Cures are Effected That
Seem Like Miracles Performed —
The Secret of Long Life of
Olden Times Revived.
The Remedy is Free to All Who Send
Name and Address.
After years of patient study, and delving into
the dusty records of the past, as well as following
mo tern experiments in the realms of medical
science. Dr. James W. Kidd, 486 First N ational
Bank -building, Fort Wayne, Ind., U. S.A.,
DR. JAMES WILLIAM KIDD.
makes the startling announcement that he
has surely discovered the elixir of life. That
he is able with the aid of a mysterious com-
pound, known only to him self, produced as a
result of the years he has spent in searching
for this precious life-giving boon, to cure any
and every disease that is kn own to the human
body. There is no doubt of the doctor’s earnest-
ness in making his claim and the remark-
able cures that he is daily effecting seems to
bear him out very strongly His theory which
he advances is one of reason and based on
sound experience in a medical practice of many
years. It costs nothing to try his remarkable
•‘Elixir of Life," as he calls it, for he sends
it free, to anyone who is a sufferer, in sufficient
quantities to convince of its ability to cure, so
there is absolutely no risk to run. Some of
the cures cited are very remarkable, and but
for reliable witnesses would hardly be credited.
The lame have thrown away crutches and
walked about after two or three trials of the
remedy. The sick, given up by home doctors,
have been restored to their families and friends
in perfect health. Rheumatism, neuralgia,
stomach, heart, liver, kidney, blood and skin
diseases and bladder troubles disappear as
by magic. Headaches, backaches, nervousness,
fevers, consumption, coughs, colds, asthma,
catarrh, bronchitis and all affections of the
throat, lungs or ary vital organs are easily
overcome in a space of time Jjiat is simply
marvellous. f
Partial paralysis, /jcomotor acaxia, dropsy,
gout, scrofula and piles are quickly and per-
manently removed. It purifies the entire
system, blood and tissues, restores normal
Per re power, circulation and a state of perfect
health is produced at once. To the doctor all
systems are alike and equally affected by this
great Elixir of Life." Bend for the remedy
to d.ii 4.t is free to every sufferer. State what
you wa'ut to be cured of and the sure remedy
for it will be sent you free by return mail.
Remember, a letter to America requires
postage ' '■Write your nanie very plain, and bp
sure to give your lull address, so there call
no mistake in delivery.
THE PIANOLA
d
v
‘P
9
What
It
neans
To
You
If you could suddenly be provided with the ability to play the
piano perfectly, and to retain the ability without the necessity of constant
practice, would you not gladly pay £6O ?
The PIANOLA will provide this wonderful ability. It will give
to any one absolute control over the piano.
It will enable you to play your piano, although you may not have
played one note in your life.
No musical knowledge is necessary and the possessor of a PIANOLA
finds himself master of a technique greater than that of any artist that
ever lived.
Is it not worth while to consider the advisability of owning a
PIANOLA yourself ? If you will write us, we will mail you free a
catalogue describing the instrument. When writing, ask for Catalogue P.
The price of the Pianola is £6O for prompt cash, or £65 on
moderate monthly payments.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SYDNEY : 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
u
That Bald Patch will get larger
if you don’t do something. *+>
GAPILLA HAIR TONIC
All Chemists, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Fr<“>
By FRANK RENAR.
Edwards, Dtialop & Co., Sydney
pelman’s System -
Plemory Training
Develops and improves the Memory, making a poor
memory good and a good one better. It is no mere
theory, but a sound and practical system, based upon
well-known psychological principles. Its value is testified
to by the leading newspapers of the world, and by the
praise of hundreds of students residing in all parts of
the globe.
What the Pel man System
will do for you.
It will enable you—
TO REMEMBER FIGURES, TO REMEMBER DATES.
TO REMEMBER NAMES. TO REMEMBER AD-
DRESSES. TO REMEMBER VERBAL INSTRUC-
TIONS. TO REMEMBER SPEECHES. TO REMEM-
BER BUSINESS DETAILS. TO LEARN LAN-
GUAGES. TO PASS EXAMS. TO SPEAK WITHOUT
NOTES. TO AVOID MISTAKES. TO REMEMBER
APPOINTMENTS. TO REMEMBER ENGAGE-
MENTS.
It will Assist You — .
TO THINK RAPIDLY TO REASON LOGICALLY.
It will Ensure Your Success in Everything.
THE COURSE OF LESSONS can now be obtained direct
from Melbourne.
An EXPLANATORY PAMPHLET and copies of TES-
TIMONIALS will be sent, post free, on application to the
Secretary, BOX 402, G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
Head Office: 4 Bloomsbury-street, London
I
Ruifj
f
<1
§
pURE
Lime
Fruit
Juice
Sole Consignees ■—
EVANS SONS,
LESCHER & WEBB,
Limited.
London & Liverpool.
Agents:
Elliott Bros., Ltd.; J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
a Progressive Dietary suited to the Growing Digestive Powers.
The
; A
Young Infants thrive and sleep well, and are contented
and happy, being saved from the digestive troubles common to
those fed on farinaceous foods, condensed milk, or even cow’s milk.
Milk Food no. 1. Milk Food n O . 2. Malted Food n 0.3.
From birth to three months. From three to six months. From six months and upwards.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding and Management free from
495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
JSlalaEN & HTtNBURYS latch, LONDON.
DARK OR AROMATIC
FINEST SELECTED
AMERICAN LEAF.
HIGHEST QUALITY
MANUFACTURED.


yV
V
Mr
<1
n
T
1
“NATURES
PLEASANT
LAXATIVE."
OF
.//it
**'• ixcillint ntueov »*tsfwTß
MOST ACCEPTABLE AO«M , '// \
THE MtOIOIH ALLY CAKATIVC PfttHOrPktS Of V
i
\
OLPOT FOR GREAT BRITAIN AND COLONIES |V
32 SHOW HILL LONDON E C
the original
AND
GENUINE.
P °s
California Syrup of Figs is the one True Natural Laxative. It acts
gently, pleasantly and beneficially on the Kidneys, Liver, and Bowels,
and permanently overcomes Habitual Constipation.
Words of Advice:
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS, and sec that
the package bears the well-known Name and Trade Mark
of the California Fig Syrup Co., the Manufacturers of the
only Original and Genuine. Imitations are numerous, but
as you value your health you cannot risk taking a substi-
tute. California Syrup of Figs is sold in Australia in two
sizes at 1/3 and 1/11. Worthless substitutes are often
offered at less as an inducement.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Califoknia Fig Sybup Company, 32 Snow Hill, London, E.C.
Ausxbalia : 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
A. F.
9
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKRRS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Motlce
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
ia -
Limited.
The Need.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
U.K.
When I am grey and stark,
When down into the dark
I grope purblind;
Then, lonely in the dread
Of dead among the dead,
Can I be comforted,
Though God I find ?
For in that shadow far,
Where all things shadow are—
That greyness drear—
I want no God unknown ;
I need some spirit lone
Whose grief is like my own,
Homely and near.
God dwells in loneliness ;
To Him in my distress
I cannot cling.
I ask no soul divine,
Remote, patient, benign,
But, ah ! a heart like mine
Remembering.
In that abyss I seek
Some humble thing and weak,
That faints and fears—
To meet in that lone place,
That is not Time nor Space,
A quiet human face
That has known tears.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Irresolution of Steve
Affleck.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The grass-coated hollow known as “Bander’s
Crossing ” had always been a favorite camping-
place for men on their way to and from the shear-
ing sheds in the western plains of New South
Wales. It was—coming from the South—the last
of the rises, and when the camp-fires were alight,
and flickering on its smoke-stained boulders, it
was a cheerful scene enough.
So thought Steve Upton, the gigantic, red-
bearded man, comfortably reclining there one
night, and reflectively smoking. He had
“ done ” the sheds, and was now bound
home, where his thoughts were centred. His
meditative mood had detached him from two
other men, who lay quietly talking a little dis-
tance from him. One of these was Bill Napper,
his mate and neighboring selector; the other,
Zack Orton, a man hailing from the same dis-
trict, outward bound.
But quietly as they spoke, neither Napper nor
Orton allowed for the intense stillness which sat
upon the scene. Steve had paid no attention,
however, until he heard his name mentioned;
and then, with a slight inclining movement, he
listened keenly.
It was Orton who was speaking. “Well, I can
only give ye what they say,” he observed, lighting
his pipe afresh with a burning faggot: “I got it
from the missis, and you can bet she’d ’a’ ferreted
it out pretty well. Anyway, she says as all the
neighbors knows of it.”
P’raps,” said Napper, meditatively, spitting
accurately at a twig ; “it may o’ny be a larkin’
acquaintance, arter all.”
Orton shook his head: “Folks say not. They
has it that Upton’s missis has all sorts o’ excuses
fer runnin’ inter town, and drops inter this ’ere
Barker’s orfice quite easy and nateral, and they do
let on—well, mind ye, you unnerstand me ? I
wouldn’t swear to it in no court —but they do
chuck it about that he runs up ter the s’lection
sometimes in the evenin’. He’s a smart sort ’o
chap, too, writes fer the paper, and likely ter be
takin’ with women. Take it which way ye like,
she won’t be more nor half Upton’s age. How do
ye get over that ? ” he added conclusively.
Napper mused darkly. “By crikey !” he ex-
claimed, with emotion, 4 4 if any missus o’ mine was
ter do a thing like that, and me away, so ter
speak, a-graftin' f’r ’er, I’d—l’d ” but, no ade-
quate solution for this contingency presenting
itself, he savagely booted a log into the fire.
Steve had listened with scarcely a movement.
Even after the voices of the two men had ceased,
and they were stretched in slumber, he remained
in the same attitude of silent, expectant recep-
tivity. He shifted his position at last, picked up
the pipe that had fallen from his mouth, and tried
to think and to reason ; a difficult matter to his
slow-moving, decision-lacking mind.
Five years before, when farming a selection 200
miles from his present place, life had marked out
for Steve two main sorrows : first, the disappear-
ance of his only son, George (on the finding of
something wrong with the accounts of a small
local institution for which he acted as treasurer),
then the death of his first wife. Like many men
of great physical strength, Steve was sensitive to
a degree, and his shame and misery drove him to
action. He changed his name of Affleck to
Upton, moved out to a part of the country where
he was unknown, and, solitary and broken in
spirit, made a fresh start. A few years later the
country side said something ought to be done for
poor, untaught, bright-looking Jennie Bailey,
daughter of an ignorant, thriftless widow, whose
death had left her homeless —and Steve, accepting
the responsibility, married her.
For 12 months Steve and Jennie had lived in
the state which passes as happiness, and in that
interval Steve had learned to love his wife. His
nature was too deep for demonstrative affection ;
with him this found vent in a natural delicacy,
respect, and chivalric bearing. One dream he had
missed—that a child might be born to him to
replace the son he had lost.
* * * •
44 Seems ter me, Steve, ye’re kind o’ fergettin’
where ye are, ain’t ye? If ye want bacca, why
don’t ye sing out?” Napper said angrily, pitching
his plug over. “Am I ter smoke alone, or what ?
44 1 b’lieve lam gettin’ a trifle dull,” said Steve,
apologetically, fumbling for his pipe. “Ye see, I
slep’ last night only what ye might call middlin
good.”
Napper suddenly became thoughtful, his slack-
looking face, set off with wisps of whisker, taking
on an ominous solemnity, while his pale eyes stole
furtive glances at Steve. After a few minutes of
silence, he remarked judicially, taking his pipe
from his mouth :
“Puttin’ it as between man and man, and
without no necessity fer you to answer if ye don t
want to discriminate yerself, ye can say if ye
heard what Zack Orton says to mo last night.
St ev e colored, and winced visibly at this open
«wt shame. “Yes,” he answered
aw kwardl y , I_l happened to hear.”
Well, now we know where we are!” cried
Napper relieved “ and th’only question fer you
& oi n’.ter do?” and he
learied back and eyed Steve critically.
Ihis hit the centre of Steve’s difficulty. “I
am t, in a manner o’ speakin’, quite made up my
mi “ ’ 16 observed, tentatively.
. , ! Jeered Napper, “and you ain’t likely
to. Yell get fooled all round, and then start
tergivin and overlookin’! Look ’ere,” he went
on, severely “let every man deal it out to his
own missis in his own way—that I maintains—but
ier the crawlin goanner, what’s took advant-
age o you bein’ out o’ the way—well! ’e’s no
1! ? 6 • My Gawd ! ” gasped Mr. Napper,
suddenly realising the possibilities, “’e might ’a
bin after my missis! See ’ere, Steve,” he went
on, darkly “you know me, don’t ye? Right!
JNow there s on’y one thing you’ve got ter do, if
you re a man mind, I say, if you’re a man—you’ve
got ter drill a hole in this skunk ! If you don’t,
the chaps round us ’ll say you ain’t got the sperit
of a magpie You hear me? Well, now you’ve
got it straight ! ” And, knocking the ashes from
nis pipe decisively, Napper jumped up with an
ugly expression on his face, and began to saddle
up.
The two men were silent as they rode on.
Steve was now ruminating on the problem Napper
had put to him. It was habitual with Steve to
? n anc * con .sider any exterior solution of a
difficulty, as a relief to the harassing working-out
of one for himself. And although constitutionally
a man shrinking from violence—yet without
personal fear there was something in this sugges-
tion which, while it would have shocked him
under ordinary circumstances, now appealed to
his racked mind as being reasonable. The very
sense of his own fair dealings rose up in support
of it, and when he thought of what he had endured
in the past, how all his hopes had been turned to
gall, and how this last hope of all, upon which the
precarious balance of his happiness was poised,
had deceived him, a sort of savage determination
took possession of him. The man’s sense of jus-
tice, too, began to cry out to him, and he was
filled with a deep scorn of the enemy who had
stabbed him in the back. And then Napper—he
of the loose face and the wispy whiskers—had
raised the question of his manhood, and this
rankled bitterly.
And a keen light replaced the usually mild
expression of Steve’s blue eyes, and a novel air of
alertness, hurry, determination, accompanied his
movements. He became restless in camp, im-
patient of delay, and eager to be moving. Each
day his grim, resolute aspect became sterner,
warning even Napper from jest or personalities.
On the evening of the fifth day they instinctively
drew rein at Wilder’s Gap, whence lay before
them the open stretch of country where their selec-
tions were.
Napper looked curiously at Steve. “Well,” he
remarked; “about that matter we was speakin’
of ; ye’re goin’ to do it, ain’t ye ? ”
“If I find out as it’s true, Bill,” replied Steve
with tense determination ; “ Yes ! I am !”
“Right!” said Napper, encouragingly. “Better
come on ter my place first.”
The men commenced the descent. An ac-
quaintance was passed now and then, but they
did not stop, keeping the horses to their pace,
and exchanging no words. Steve pulled up and
waited at the slip-rails when they arrived at
Napper’s—he knew what they were for. “I
won’t be long! ” called out Napper as he dis-
appeared in the darkness. In a few minutes he
returned afoot, carrying a gun. “I’ve put a
good charge in it,” he said cheerfully, as he
handed it to Steve, “and as ye’ll take him
close up, it’ll do.”
Steve dismounted, and they followed the fence
that led to the house. As they approached it
they saw there was a light in the sitting-room,
which pleasantly illuminated the red blind.
Fastening the horse, they proceeded cautiously to
the building. Reaching within twenty yards of
it, they saw the shadows of two persons. Steve
knew one, and Napper recognised the other.
“That’s’im!” he whispered excitedly : “he’s
a settin’ on the couch by the winder ! walk ten
paces, and ye’ve got ’im !”
Steve hesitated. His usual moment of ir-
resolution —supreme and overmastering, this time
—had come to him !” “ I—l don’t some’ow like
it, Napper,” he said nervously, his face haggard
in the moonlight.
“What!” sneered Napper, bitterly: “d’ye
mean ter say, arter all, that ye ain’t got the
pluck ?”
“It ain’t that!” panted Steve, wretchedly, but
goaded to action, —“hows’ever, we’ll walk ter the
back. I—l’d rather take him front ways !”
“Don’t matter ’ow ye take dogs like them!”
snarled Napper, as they crept on.
Steve led the way through the kitchen, the
sound of two voices reaching his ears. The door of
the sitting-room was shut and, holding his weapon
in his right hand, he opened it smartly, and
followed by Napper, crossed the threshold. Seated
at the table he saw his wife who, hurriedly rising,
uttered a loud, terrified scream. Not deterred by
this Steve, with blanched face, quickly raised his
weapon, and pointed it at the young man facing
him, who now sprang to his feet.
“ Father ! What do you mean ? ”
Steve reeled and swayed, his arms dropped
before him, and the gun fell with a crash to the
floor. For a few minutes the two men looked
into each other’s faces, the father’s regard being
fixed, staring and dazed.
Then the young man spoke with bitterness:
“Father, I don’t deserve that! Even the law
doesn’t call what I did a shooting matter. What
I owed I’ve paid with interest, and they’ve over-
looked it, so I hoped to square it now with you.
I’ve seen you in the town several times, but I
suppose hadn’t the courage to speak ! ”
“ But what ’a’ ye bin doin’ here in this house ? ”
demanded Steve, hoarsely.
The young man did not answer, but looked
confusedly at Jennie, who stood flushed and
embarrassed. Raising her eyes unsteadily to her
husband, she said : “ Steve, ye know I hadn’t bin
taught ter—ter write, and, you bein’ away so long
—I thought I’d ’’—glancing at some writing
material on the table —“find someone to give me
just a lesson or two. Ye see”—smiling and
brightening—“l’d never written ye a—love-letter
—had I?—and—and, besides’’—looking at him
shyly, and lowering her voice—“there was some-
thing to tell ye—about myself—that you had
wanted, and only I could write it, and—and ”
She could not finish, for at that moment, Steve,
with a new light in his eye, and a cry from his
heart, folded her to him with a capacious arm,
and thrust out a grip to his son, which made him
wince.
Napper looked from side to side, helpless and
bewildered. “By Gawd !” he said, wonderingly.
He stooped and picked up the gun, and his roving
eye, chancing to light on the cat, contentedly
blinking from a cushion, he spat unerringly at its
left whisker, and stole on tip-toe from the room.
GEORGE MARTIN.


Doan’s Reports Investigated.
No Return of Illness for Three Years*
«
Patient: u The pain is in the small of the back, D<k?-ot:
Doctor: “Ah! That’s kidney trouble."
We are answering to-
day a very important
question, viz., Do the
people who say they have
been cured by Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills
Stay cured 1
A medicine which
cures merely for a day or
a week is worthless, it is
only a tonic, or a purga-
tive.
But a medicine which
drives the illness away,
so that it stays away,
that medicine does all
medicine can do.
We have been verify-
ing our earlier published
cases, and we are pleased
to say the result of our
investigations has been
most gratifying.
THE CURES BY
DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS ARE
PERMANENT
CURES.
If there be any among
those cases which we have
before published, whose
illness has returned, and
whose cure is not perma-
nent, we shall be glad if
they will write us about
it.
Mr P. Smith, 1 Cheltenham-streefc, Balmain, this city, says :
months ago I Doan's Blache SJSri
they worke'd a miracle in my case. I had been u so bad
different times, but their treatment did me Rf 1 ' * t Jg" came on when
that I would'have to be earned home m a cart if an attacK came u
working in the street. Sometimes when walking, I have had would
3 would bo taken to the hospital. My wife “ v f Mioue-
n a e t V The b hospital gaTe me medicines, and
ments but it was no £ILLS, -stating that these Pills
kSSkswS
The first dose relieved me. When I had finished them, I started WUIK ’
have worked osr t inee. It is heavy work lam doing but itdoes not ageet
Pills cured me after years of suffering, and the reliei was
instantaneous. I might state that since then I have had ac^ f C K?CHE
which laid me up for one month. I never thought that DOAJN b ±>A *
KIDNEY PILLS were good for this complaint. Then I remembered that I
a few in the box! and not having any other medicine in the house I tried them.
6ATRSmIthT R Smlth states later on :—“Three years ago my husband gave testimony
regarding AN s’BACKACHE KIDNEY PELLS. , h f
health since he used that remedy ; in fact, never having had a sign of the adiim
return Some time ago he was lifting a heavy weight and wrenched his back.
He obtained a box of DOAN’S PILLS, and they nd him of his agony. I am
firmlv Snvinced he owes his life to DOAN’S PILLS, for he could not have stood
the pain he used to suffer before he used these pills. I ev ® r BACK-
aaony. He has never missed a day at his work since he used DOArs b DAtAV
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS four years or more ago.
rS s'„Tbe to bowSsT-In d,Se a a “;7rL«?s K «imy“alJ» condition of
the kidneys helping them to flush from the system the uric acid and other poisons \
VkWvd’ filter from the blood. These poisons cause most diseases.
Wh do not ask vou merely to believe our claims, but we do ask you to place confi-
dence infhe word of fellow-citizens, or at least to verify their statements for yourselves.
Doan’s Backache Kidney pills
May be had of Chemists and Stores at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes,
15s. 3d.), or will be posted, on receipt of price, by Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
Itchiness of the Skin.
Ever have any irritation of the skin ? There
are many forms of it, any of them bad enough
to tax your patience. Haemorrhoid, a plague
of the night—no rest for the sufferer from that
complaint. Eczema, too. Hives don’t sound
dangerous, but they cause much misery to
those unfortunate enough to be troubled with
them. Doan’s Ointment is “a wonder” for
any such trouble. No troublesome irritation
of the skin can resist its healing, soothing
influence. Lots of Sydney people know this
now.
Mrs. Silva, 56 Duke-st., Woolloomooloo,
says : —“ A year or two ago I informed you of
the immense benefit I derived from the use of
Doan’s Ointment. My little girl had a skin
trouble which affected the leg. It was not
unlike ringworm, only a lot more spread out.
It was so irritable that she scratched it until
it became raw. We applied a lot of ointments
at times, but they did not seem to benefit it.
When I made the statement which has
appeared in the Sydney papers, Doan’s Oint-
ment hadn’t quite cured her, but had done her a
wonderful lot of good. I gave that testimonial
for the marvellous way this Ointment used to
bring ease, but since then the Ointment cured
it thoroughly. We used two pots and she has
been free of the rash over twelve months now.
We think the world of Doan’s Ointment.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all diseases
of the skin, eczema, piles, hiv sores insect
bites, chilblains, etc. It is perfectly safe and
very effective. Very often two or three pots
have cured chronic cases which have resisted
other remedies for years.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists and
storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will be
posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney.
But be sure you get DOAN’S.
Going Home.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’ve driven her through the great storm-billows
screaming,
Till creaking bolts and wrenching rods and bars
Cried in their anger, like Hell’s voices seeming,
We’ve cruised and swung and dreamed beneath
the stars.
Through boiling fo: m
Her screws have roared sea-measures wild and
hoary,
But now they hum a tune —another story—
A song of home:
“ We’re going home,”
Through storm and night they sing— through mid-
day’s glory,
“ We’re going home.”
Down in the engine-room worn glands are leaking ,
The shafting shivers and the cross-heads jerk,
And one great voice of steel calls hoarsely,
speaking
Of weariness and heavy, endless work.
Her funnel’s gray,
And every spar that rocks and sways aloe her
Echoes the music of the blades that love li r:
“Nor’ard away,”
“Nor’ard away.”
Hark how they sing and labor as they move her
Nor’ard away !
Bravely the steamers steer. With reckless motion
They clear the Heads and sweep to meet the
breeze;
But there is nothing mightier than God’s ocean;
Steel fights but conquers not its howling seas.
That pale-starred dome
Of Heaven that smiled upon them M their going
Will see them ploughing back, soft smoke-trail
blowing,
Making for home,
Making for home,
With white, white froth at stern and fore-foot
showing,
Making for home.
When we have done with Life—its laughter and
its groaning—
Ghost-ships will come, ‘and at the set of sun
Will call and call. And then with engines
moaning,
And one loud song of deeds of valor done,
They’ll lift the foam
With shafting shouting at its toil deep under;
They’ll sing this song, and tear the seas asunder,
“We’re going home,
We’re going home. ”
From steel and sea ’twill rise in tones of thunder—
“ We’re going home /”
H.L.
QUILP N.
Rheumatism.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“It’s goin’ ter rain ter-night,” said Bob, as he
struggled to fit his hip into a hollow he had rooted
in the ground, 11 I’ve got them shootin pains.
“Well, yer not goin’ ter lug them blankets off
uv me even if yer got locomotor ataxy. Lie still.”
Cuttabri paused and spat through a hole in the
tent. “ There’s two ways uv curin’ rheum’tism—
snake-ile an’ gum-leaves. Yer have ter drink the
snake ile. It’s a fact. Wunst I called at a
cockie’s place fer a drink. I couldn’t talk wi’
thirst, an’ the cockie sez, ‘Go ter the hut, an get
some tea.’ I went in an’ scoffed a pint uv brown
stuff I sees on the table. It wusn’t tea ;it was
snake-ile for rheum’tism. I never drunk nothin’
fer a week after, an’ I never had rheum’tism since.
“ But gum-leaves is best. Wunst me an’two
fellers—Kison an’ Trott—went pioneerin with
cattle on the Diamantina. We had a lotuv seeds,
an’ we sowed pumpkins there, an’ they grew up
grand Well, a few months after comm there,
we went shootin’ ducks on a big lagoon. We was
goin’ ter fire at some ducks, when suddenly we
sees a pumpkin floatin’ up ter them quickly.
Presently one duck disappeared, an’ then another,
till four had gone. We was knocked bandy. How
did the blessed pumpkin get there, an’ where was
the ducks goin’ ? /Kison picked up his rifle an
bored a hole'through the top uv the pumpkin,
an’ if that thing didn’t fairly gallop oyer the
water awhile, an’ then dive under some bushes. Of
course, me an’ Trott dropped it was a nigger
who’d scooped out a pumpkin an stuck his head
in it, an’ waded in after the ducks. But Kison
was superstitious, an’ we thought wed pull his
leg. ‘Strange!’ says Trot, ‘I think Ive had
enough shootin’ terday.’ ‘Wot was it, sez 1,
frightened like. Kison said nothing jhe was one
uv them cow-brained coves that keep silence on
principle, so’s ter get ahead uv yer somehow.
We didn’t know him then. We pitched a lot uv
ghost-lies that night, an’ nex’ mornin’ Kison
looked straight at us, an’ sez he, ‘ D’ye think that
pumpkin wusn’t an ord’nary V ‘I don’t want ter
know wot it was,’ said I, sorter shudderin’. After
that Kison seemed real scared. ,
“Meanwhile the natives took on great with the
pumpkin idea. After a lot uv persuadin, I
enticed Kison one evenin’ down ter the lagoon.
Trott had a lot uv blaoks ready in the water with
pumpkins on, an’ when we come they all dived,
an' Kison went away full gallop. That night he
sez, ‘There's something wrong about here. Them
pumpkins must be the spirits or somethin uv
murdered blacks,’ an’ he seemed real mis a bit;
about it. We never thought he was such a bandi-
coot before ; but, yer see, we didn’t know him.
After awhile he become so scared he wouldn’t
move after dark, an’ we had ter do all the jobs at
night, whioh become a damn noosance.”
“ Soon after a lot uv blacks got rheum’tism real
bad fr’an wadin’ in the water, an’ had ter lie up.
But the queerest thing was that Kison got
rheumatism just then, toot He kept on sufferin
fr’m it fer mouths, an’ he would allers get bad
when we was workin’ hard at the cattle. He got
real useless. Well, one day me an’ Trott wus
paasin’ the blacks’ camp when we hears a great
vabber an’ sees a heap uv rneumatic blacks
moanin’ awful, like’s if the’ wus goin’ ter be killed.
We found out a great doctor wus comin ter cure
’em an’ judgin’ by their groans, the cure wus
pretty rough. We had left Kison laid up that
mornin’, and we’d told him we wouldn t be
back till late. However, we’d finished early,
an’ we decided ter stalk a few ducks
fer poor old Kison. When we got ter
the lagoon, wfFsees a pumpkin bobbin’ about, so
we waited. Presently the man waded out—an
knock me blue if it wusn’t Kison ! We nearly
died. He didn’t see us, an’ we crept ter the back
uv the hut an hour after an’ sees him eatin’ grilled
duck with two gins brushin’ the flies off him. The
flamin’ hound did this while we was graftin’.
“ But Kison slopped hisself by bein’ too careful.
He even pretended to the gins he had a funny
sort uv rheum’tism, an’ they believed him, an
reckoned they’d cure him, too. When we
got home next evenin’ Kison was missin
Just after tea we hears a sort uv screamin
far away. We agreed we’d see wot it
wus, an’ after a two-mile walk, we comes upon
a fearful sight. It wus a sort uv corrob'oree. The
black doctor, a big nigger in a ’possum-rug,
jumped an’ yelled an’ waved a boomerang m the
light uv an immense fire About 50 painted
devils in front follered his lead. Presently they
stops sudden, an’ a sort er thunder comes boonnn
down fr’m a hill near by. All the gins Tell flat on
the ground ; they thought it wus ole Aick, but it
wus only niggers whirlin’ notched shingles. Mean
trick, wusn’t it ? Then the painted crew rushed
towards the rheumatic blacks, who wus lyin in a
heap in the dark, bound-up. They screamed
horrible, an’ struggled, but they wus drug down
to the fire quick. Suddenly, over all the noise,
we heard a fearf&l yell an’ a stream uv curses. It
wus Kison —there wus no mistakin’ his special
swears anywhere. The black doctor then
rolled away the firesticks, an’ a lot uv them
brought up gum bushes, which he buried
in the red-hot earth. After a lot uv
corroboree they oollared four rheumatics, lncludin
Kison, an’ tied them down on the hot ground, so s
the eucalytus steam fr’m the roasted bushes
would rise inter them. The ground wus pretty
warm, judgin’ by the voice uv Kison The four
kept on shriekin’ for ’bout half an hour, an’ then
we interfered an’ had Kison loosed. Ihe blacks
wus very friendly with us, an’ ses they wus dom
it fer Kison’s good, bein’ persuaded by the two
gins, who loved Kison a lot. Ugh! there sa
dashed greenhead bit me on the calf! _ I’ll fry his
liver fer breakfas’ termorrerif I find him.”
“Wot become o’ Kison?” asked Bob.
“Well, yer see, Kison an’the other blacks wus
quite cured uv their rheum’tism, but he didn t
stay long with us. He had a sorter dreamy idea
that we put the blacks up ter scorch him. Yer
don’t think I’d do sich a thing, do yer ? But yer
can’t lick gum-leaves for rheum’tism, though.”
A. P. ROGER.
Love’s Sweet Dream.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Grigson was engaged in proposing to little Miss
Jones.
“ You have refused to marry me, Miss Jones,
for three evasive reasons,” he said, with mild
indulgence. “One, I tie my shoes in granny-
knots. Two, my taste in theology does not suit
you. Three, I don’t wear a beard to hide my
neckties. But your real reason I can guess. You
are a shy bush flower and shrink from a gay city
life by my side? It’s your modesty, diffidence,
and reserve. Am I not right ? ”
Miss Jones closed her book with a bang.
“You may hear my real reason,” she said
briefly. “I refuse to marry you, Mr. Grigson,
because there is too much variety in the species
already.”
*• W —what? ” said Grigson.
“ The undesirable types of civilisation must be
allowed to die out,” said Miss Jones, “and only
the highest types of humanity reproduce their
kind. Why should you and I repeat the mistakes
of our parents, and multiply the ricketty ? My
figure is an agony of angles ; I have the shambling
gait of the woman-like ape; my face is a half-
round square ; my ears don’t match; my nose is a
reproach ; there is not enough skin on my features
to contract; and I neither stand, run, jump,
climb, nor swim as the mother of a race should do.”
“And yet I am willing to marry you!’’said
Grigson, hilariously.
“As for you,” continued Miss Jones, “ a heavy
parcel would make you bow-legged Your mouth,
nose and chin are bunched together monkey-
fashion. The healthy savage turns his toes in—
you turn yours out in an abject manner. You are
slower than a horse, duller-eyed than a hen, and
weaker than a baby elephant.”
Grigson opened his face, but Miss Jones waved
him to silence.
“ The progeny of such a pair,” she said, “ would
have no teeth, no hair, no color, no muscle, no
thumbs, no great toes, no waist, no calves, no
organs of defence or attack —no sense.”
Grigson rose and walked feebly to the door, but
forgot his hat and had to go back for it. Miss
Jones was turning up page 1333 of “The Origin
of Species,” and did not hear him.
For the first time in his life Grigson felt the
need of a tail to drag dejectedly behind him.
M. LLOYD.
The Halifax (Q.) correspondent of The
Federal, writing in refutation of allegations that
white eane cutters were not a success in the
Herbert River district, states that
A gang of eleven white cane-cutters started at M'Nade
plantation, and with the exception of one man, who had
to give up through illness, they worked the whole of the
season, never losing any time either from “ sickness,
drink, unreliability, attributed laziness, or otherwise."
Their average for the season was 10s. 6d. per day, and
this in the face of obstacles thrown in their way by the
C.S.R. Co., which kept them short of trucks.
“Mus.” tells the Tale of a Wardrobe :
It was in a fashionable Sydney boarding-house. He
wns a little old man with heaps of money. His wife had
been his lady-help, or typiste, or companion, or some-
thing. She had prettyish eyes, and played and sang with
what Mr. Jephson, who belonged to the Liedertafel,
called abandon. Almost every evening she told her hus-
band that he looked tired, and advised him, kindly but
firmly, to go to bed and have a good night’s rest. After
he had gone, she would go to the piano and spread her-
self out. One evening, when she was singing a love-song
—with young Mr. Ffollet turning over the leaves, Mr.
Jephson hanging on to the back of the chair, and Mr. St.
Maur drawing the cork of Mr. Jolliboy’s bottle of cham-
pagne—we heard an awful crash overhead (in the old
gentleman’s bedroom) and we all rushed up pell-mell.
But the room was undisturbed, except that the wardrobe
was lying front downwards on the floor, with swear-
words coming out of its inside. It took all the boarders
and the Japanese boy to lift it. Then the doors flew
open, and there was the old gent hanging on to a peg by
the neck of his nightshirt. He said something about
“ having a lark ” with Mrs. S. Not being accustomed to
the place, he had evidently got entangled, and in his
struggles had capsized the wardrobe. Mr. St. Maur
calmly observed, “ Permit me to assist you off,” and Mr.
Jolliboy said he’d heard of skeletons in cupboards.
“ Fools, all!'” hissed the old gentleman—and we “got”
precipitately.


Used It 20 Years
When My System Was Run Down. When I Was Weak and Miserable.
When I Gould nejther Eat nor Sleep.
a
ST
Mr. F. W. Dußieu, of Collingwood,
Victoria, sends us his photograph and
says:
“I certainly ought to know about Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, for I have used it over 20
years. My faith in it is greater today than
ever. lam anxious to tell every one of its
blood-purifying power and its value as a
remarkable preventive of disease. I don’t
wait until I am down sick before taking it.
Just as soon as I feel weak, exhausted, or
lose my appetite, or don’t sleep well, I
take a few doses, and in a day or two am
all right. I tell my friends to keep it on
hand, for it’s ready then the very day they
want it. I know it has often prevented
me from being seriously ill, and I have
many acquaintances who tell the same
story.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been sold for over half a century. It has been tried
and tested in every way. Nothing like using an old, reliable, and effective
medicine. Intelligent people do not like to experiment. It’s too dangerous.
Tj nknov/n and untried medicines often work more serious results than the
disease. When you need a Sarsaparilla, get “ Ayer’s,” for it is the oldest,
strongest, and best Sarsaparilla you can buy.
Cling to the kind that has been tested for 60 years. For purifying the blood,
strengthening the digestion, and bracing up the whole nervous system, use
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
Tested and Tried by Millions of People
% ■ /
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills. They cure constipation, biliousness
Prepared by DB.. J. C. AYEE & CO., Lowell, Mass., TX. S. A.
On Our Selection, written by A. H. Davis
(“ Steele Rudd ”) and published by Tub
Bulletin Co., has earned the title of “the
jolliest book ever printed in Australia.”
There is laughter on every page ; yet the
book remains grimly true to the facts. As
a picture of life on an Australian selection
it has never been surpassed. Since it was
published, little more than two years ago,
upwards of 12,000 copies have been sold at
the comparatively high price of 6s.—making
I
an Australian publishing record. The reaso'n of the" sale is’not far to seek : the
people who have bought the book know they have got value for their money ;
and they recommend it to others. The price is comparatively high because the book is expensive to
produce. It is well printed, and strongly bound in cloth in good style. There are numerous pictures
by such well-known illustrators as Mahony, Leist, Lambert, Fischer, Fullwood, and Vincent From
cover to cover the book is Australian—the product of Aus-
tralian workmen. If it were produced by cheaper labour
in England, it would cost less, and could be sold at a
cheaper rate. The publishers prefer to employ Australian
labor only. When you buy On Our Selection you pay
a little more than you pay for an English book ; but
you get 100 times the Australian value. “Steele Rudd’s”
book has gone all oyer Australia, and wherever it has
gone it has become the treasure of a household, often
the delight of a township. People never leave off
reading it until it is thumbed to rags ; and then they
buy another copy. The characters of “Our Selection”—
“Old Dad,” “Joe,” “Dave,” “Sarah,” and the rest —
have become famous throughout the country j and their imitation by weaker writers proves the force
of their grip on the public mind. Any bookseller will sell you the book; or if you send a postal
order for 65., with Bd. postage, direct to Tub Bulletin office, it will be forwarded to any address
by return mail.
YINOLIA SOAP acts on
the skin like a little ray
of sunshine, while many
soaps cause blemishes,
face-spots, and mucous
patches.
A SINGLE BOX OF
BeECHAM’S pills
c
AN cure and chase away more Ills
• than you’re aware of.
To Remember to keep a box by you, ao4
To Remember to take a dose of the PMa
at the proper time la the
ft?
ABC OF HEALTH
Thst Ensor*
A CLEAR HEAD,
PURE BLOOD,
A HEALTHY LIVER,
A 50UND STOfIACH,
And therefore as a Natural Consequence
THEY PREVENT AND CURE
NERVOUSNESS
INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS
CONSTIPATION
SICK-HEADACHE
ANAEMIA
FLATULENCY
DEPRESSION
BACK ACHE .
GRAVEL
SKIN ERUPTIONS
INSOMNIA
THE GREATEST TREASURE in tbe BEDROOM is a box of
BEECHAM’S
TO BE COMFORTABLE IS TO BE HAPPY; TO BE HAPPY IS TO BE SUCCESSFUL
MORAL: MAKE YOURSELF COMFORTABLE AT
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
In the exact centre of the City, and on the Fashionable Block.
N.B.—Visitors only Pay for what they Actually Have.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying; for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments : BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
SINGLE ROOFI, with Full Board, 6s. per day, £2 2s. per week.
engage rooms at ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYPNEY.
NOTE.—Send to Roberts’ Wine and Spirit Store, Market St., for Price List.
It is an Eye-Opener.
m
Lmii.u.bmitn,
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
Dr.MARTIN
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.F.F.S.G., L.M., ete.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest discovery has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients treated by
correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One Pound. All Sufferers
should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work, entitled, “Mind Over Matter; or, How to
Secure a New Lease of Life without Drugrs, Medicines, or Quack Nostrums,” This work should find a place
in every household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Price, Ss.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Dally.
"ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,


Asbestos
for Boilers.
Experiments have proved the great economy
effected by covering Steam Pipes and Boilers.
Asbestos Boiler Covering' saves, among other
things, 25 per cent, in fuel.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3cwfc. casks,
75., Bs., 9s. cwt,
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 125., 145,,
16s. cwt.
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE STREET
CBetween Hunter and Bond Streets).
V*
Iv
m
and guar
Highest grac
\tee safe delivery
:ycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
£2,10 ta£5. 5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewirtg
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2jd- Stamp. Address Dept 346 D
Mead
Cycle Co.
Chicago?
L/.S.Am
m
YEARS DYEING
FOB. THE LADIES.
W_ c. IEXiDZeOIIDG-IE &c go.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Conntry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock-
Send for Catalogue*
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.* Representatives.
ntiuTioi
A
iP
Stocks at Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Have for Sale and -to arrive 1
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters* and Bakers’
Machinery Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shafting, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil, Brunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE : 435 Bourke Street.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED
Consulting Engineers on all matters relating *to mining, hydraulic, and general engineering
propositions. Manufacturers and importers of mining machinery, and steam engines and boilers
of all kinds. Mines furnished with complete plants—Milling, Concentrating, Cyaniding,
Chlorinating, &c. Pumping outfits designed and supplied with all plans necessary for erection,
capacity guaranteed. All classes of pumps kept in stock and ready for immediate delivery;
together with boilers, pipes, and other items of equipment. Correspondence invited from
pastoralists and others requiring plant for irrigating purposes. Brickworks designed and brick-
making machinery of the most modern and approved pattern supplied to order. Quotations
given for complete installation of any kind of plant whatsoever, Iron and woodworking tools
and all kinds of engineers’ fittings and supplies kept in stock. Agents for Ingersoll rock drills
and air compressors, Knowles pumps, Gates rockbreakers, etc., etc., etc.
60 Clarence St.,
Sydney
ADDRESSES :
533 Collins St,
Melbourne
21 & 23 Fremont St,
San Francisco
■rm
Bushman
Harry Morant!
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
and Buccaneer
By FRANK RENAR.
n -1 l-t Post \t EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO.,
PriCe 1/1 Free. W SYDNEY.^
m
-3 ■
■- ■ i
Size, s\" x Si" x 5".
We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO.,
97 Glarence-st., Sydney.
I
1
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of tht
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion
Sour Eructations, Bilious Aff ctions
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA,
m
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Manufacturers of RACKAROCK
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦»♦♦♦♦
Manufacturers and Sole Proprietors of the new
Patent Explosive Compound,
RENDROCK
NERYOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address; A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNBY.
TREWHELLA BROS.’
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Pricb
Double Purchase Jack 4 65 -
»> )) n 6 75/“
Single „ „ 1\ 40/«
With AUTOMATIC LOWERING GEAR, 5/- extra.
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victoria,
OR H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
