

McE WAN’S ALE
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
Jb&*
Mining
a,ncl Contractors’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS
107 Kent street,
—FOR—
Engineers’ and
Plant;
AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY
•9
Sydney,
Sawmill Machinery. Mining Requisites
NEW AND
SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
13,800 MACHINES SOLD.
Paris
1900
Grand
Prix.
Two
Gold
Medals
M-''
Three
Silver
Medals
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL. VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles,’comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life-size —causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character—vgry superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker's Love Bond (a good catch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination OometCandle and
Matchbox, the Great Yankee Bicycle Puzzle (very
ingenious), and, last of all, the famous Wizard of the
North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° •» 85 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
Soltt A Events for RUSTON, PROCTOR & CO., Ltd., LINCOLN. .
BINISHINQ THRASHING MACHINES, With Patent ECCENTRIC MOTjO* >for driving SHAKERS & „ou
F Finishing Thrashing: Machines, with Self Oiling Drumshaft S *'ortableand nxeci STEAM and OIL JES. McLaren s
woRK
For FULL PARTICULARS and ILLUSTRATED LISTS apply to - - GIBSON, BAJ TLB & CO., 85 ’
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
The Bulletin Story Book
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages,
price, 4s. (id.
■ a
HOBART
l r-’j :*
adieu’s
Pi
EER
LEATHER
LTI
NC
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
MACILL, S.A.
409 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
I
I
*
£
84 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
17 Fenchurch St*
LONDON.
/
d
\o
IK
/<•>
E ROOMS
INDIAN
POLO STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S. Africa,
Egypt, China and Ceylon
and used by all the best players in India. Agents wanted
in Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddlers
and merchants are invited to write for trade terms.
EROOM&CO.,
CALOUTTA, INDIA.
- — —
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls*
4
QE
K
CP
%
The Bulletin
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswau - Lamp.
The Bulletin
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Save no Worthless
Imitations. '
IKI OBUia M
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot— Commonwealth Buildings,
Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
THE
‘PLUM’
The Bulletin
- ■
..yV,, T.
THE
perfectly hollow ground, ring
we know the exact, kind of
s~i ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, pi
\T like i bell and never renuires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, ........ - ~
edge [ha L is required to ensiir q e an easy shfve, and.Vaving had tbem in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO A EARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Ra«or, 7S. Sd,
“RAZOLEO’ LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
i simple Razor in strong Leather Case, 10s 6dj l’air, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21*.
FWOB {single Razor’, in Ivory 1 Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB S
S
On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
Price 6s. ' The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
00
is Distilled under the supervision
of the Federal Excise Department
which is a Guarantee of its Purity.
The Bulletin
o
y
/orl AWO ftfIRSOH
the Drscoverer
'OO years old
November 11th, 'O3.
21 Derwent-st., Glebe, Sydney.
The Manager.
•Dear Sir,—l duly received the
two bottles of PEPTOCHLOR,
which my wife has taken ac-
cording to instructions —the
efficacy of which, in her case,
has proved marvellously effec-
tual.
Having tried doctors’ pre-
scriptions, and otherwise, for
upwards of 10 years, I think it
only just to you and others, to apprise you of the effect
of your medicine, for which I predict a great future.
Meantime I am, yours faithfully, WALTER HUBBARD.
PEARSON'S PEPTO-CHi-OR is not a cure-all, but
the absolute cure for INDIGESTION.
Obtainable at 2/6 and 4/- per bottle, all chemists, or
direct from the Orlando Pearson Pepto-chlor Co., Sydney
Stock. Exchange Buildings. _
kßflcCA>cK>
mm
HERVEY’S
RfICKfIROCK.
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
ijOV ai
oof
MAW'*-
COOL
ROOF
AGENTS: Leading Ironmongers
everywhere.
COOL HOUSES
WHITE COMPO.
or TERRA COTTA
To Avoid Fraud
-^seeTradeMark
on each case &c.
FACTOR!ES : For these two lines address—
“AßAßlC” DEPOT, MELBOURNE.
f\RM
Cheapest
OIL
PAINT
on
Earthy
Helidon Spa Water.
A Natural Liquid Food. From Helidon, Queensland.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1240;]
Begisterer! at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
[Tlinrs<in.y. NoYember 19, 1903.


Book trade Advertisement.
NEW BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S nA ,f
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Howie, Drawing (Self-Educator Series), 2s 6d, postage 4d.
Leverton, tattle Entertainments, Is, p. 3d.
De Blowitz (H.S.), My Memoirs, 18s, p. Is 6d.
McCabe, Twehe Years in a Monastery, 4s, p. 6d.
Thomas, Social Ghosts, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Shiel, Unto the Third Generation, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Jerome, Tea Table Talk, 2s 6d, p. 4d.
Boswell’s Johnson, Abridged, 4s, postage 6d.
Stewart & Cuff, Practical Nursing, Vol. 11, 4s, p. sd.
Allingham, Happy England, 80 Col. Ulus., 245, p. Is 2d.
Menpes, The Durbar, 100 Col. Illus., 245, p. Is 2d.
Flowerden, A Woman’s View, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Prescott, Dragooning a Dragoon, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Barry Pain, Eliza’s Husband, Is & Is 6d, p. 3d.
71 CASTL.EREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Publishers,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
SOME PUBLICATIONS.
PROSE.
On Our Selection, by A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”), 6s.
The Bulletin Story Book, by Sixty Bulletin Writers,
is. 6a.
Castro’s Last Sacrament, and Other Stories, by
Albert Dorrinoton, 4s. 6 d.
Such is Life, by Tom Collins, 4s. 6d.
Bushman and Buccaneer, (Harry Morant; His 'Ven-
tures and Verses), Is.
The Last of Six, by Ernest Pa vend, 6d.
VERSE.
The Bulletin Reciter, by Eighty Bulletin Writers,
4s. 6 d.
Fair Cirls and Cray Horses, with Other Verses, by
Will H. Ogilvie, 4s. 6d.
At Dawn and Dusk, by Victor J. Daley, 4s. 6 d.
Maoritand, and Other Verses, by Arthur H. Adams,
4s. 6 d.
The Ways of Many Waters, by E. J. Brady, 4s. 6<f.
Dreams in Flower, by Louise Mack, 2s. 6 d.
The West Wind, by Hubert Church. 2s. 6 d.
The Circling Hearths, by Rodkric Quinn, Is. 6 d.
A Rose of Regret, by James Hbbblbtiiwaitb, Is. 6 d.
THE BOOKPELLOW.
Of this magazinelet, issued in 1899, a few copies are
available for collectors as under—No. 1, Out of Print.
No. 4, Out of Print. Nos. 2,3, 5, the set of three num-
bets, pries is.
CATALOGUES OF PHIL MATS
DRAWINGS.
The sales of Tho Bulletin's series of original drawings by
Phil May, held at Sydney on September 18th, 1903, and
at Melbourne on October 29th, 1903, may be taken
m marking the beginning of many Australian collec.
Mobs in black-and-white art. The descriptive cata-
logues, illustrated, are of notable interest. The re-
maining copies may be had as under—
Catalogui of Original Drawings by Phil May, R. 1., in-
cluding Lots 1 to 476, with supplement of price»(Sydney
sale), paper , 2*. id. Special edition of twenty-five
copies, numbered, bound in white huckram, with title
in gold, and supplement of prices. A few copies at ss.
Second Catalogue or Original Drawings by Phil May,
R. 1., including Lot 477 to 615, with supplement of
prices (Melbourne sale), paper, 2s. id. Special edition
of twenty-five copies, numbered, bound in white
buckram, with title in gold; and supplement of prices.
A few copies at s s.
For Complete List of Publications see end of
Books.
ANNOUNCEMENTS.
Our New Selection, by “Steele Rudd.” Price, 6s.
Nearly Ready.
Hearts of Cold, and Other Verses, by Will H. Ogilvie.
Price, is., (id. Nearly Ready.
Dawnward, by Bernard O’Dowd, being No. VI of The
Bulletin Booklets. Fifty copies only printed for sale
price, 2s. 6 d. Ready in December.
%* On receipt of P. 0.0. or postal note at Bulletin
Office, these books will be posted to any address imme-
diately on publication.
* -
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Distributing Agents.
Australasia.— EDWAßDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd,,
Clarence Street, Sydney.
Great Britain.— EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
Bream’s Buildings, London, E.C.
South Africa.— GOßDON & GOTCH, Capetown.
Special Wholesale Agents.
New South Wales and Queensland.— EDWAßDS,
DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.
Victobia and Tasmania. —THE GEORGE ROBERTSON
PROPRIETARY, Ltd.
South and Western Australia.— E. 0. WIGG & SOY.
Maorilasd : Auckland and District.— WlLDMAN,
LYELL, and AREY.
London.— EDWARDS, DUNLOP & GO., Ltd.
Capetown.— GOßDON & GOTCH.
Durban.— GOßDON & GOTCH.
Others to be appointed.
J*
MOTE.— The Bulletin Books are supplied to the
* * Trade on terms which permit them to be
sold retail at the Publisher’s lfjpt prices. Single
copies may be obtained also direct from the
Publishers—
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER COMPANY, LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE.
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Lartnx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLP and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain NO Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
Sold by all Chemisti, in tins, 1/61 from the Proprietor, G. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post frse on receipt
•f stamps. Sydney DepOt: 6 * 7 Queen's Place. Made in Australia. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z.
THE RED PAGE
NEWLY PUBLISHED
A. W. a Beckett, author of The (i Becketts of
Punch (Lond., Constable ; 12s. 6tf. net), descends from a
talented family well-known in the last generation. His
father Gilbert was a London police magistrate—and
comic author. His uncle William was first Chief Justice
of Victoria—and wrote poetry. His uncle Thomas was
a Victorian Legislative Councillor—and lectured on
“Painting and Painters.” One of his cousins “was
said to be the best amateur herald at the antipodes.”
Another cousin is the Victorian Judge who was shocked
by “the extent to which women dare swear falsely
against positive evidence,” and declared that “ they are
utterly destitute of shame, remorse, or any feeling of
regret for wrong they have done.” Thus the whole
family has shown peculiar interest in the fine arts.
Author A. W. supplies an effective footnote to “ Angus
McNeill’s ” jibe that “ the English are a nation of em-
ployed persons. .. You will meet hoary and bald-headed
Englishmen who will tell you with a quaver that they have
been in the employment of one and the same house, man
and boy, for over half-a-century, sir ! Somehow the
Englishman tells you this with a look of pride, and rather
expects you to regard him as a sort of marvel.” And
“my father” (says A.W.) “was on Punch for fifteen
years, I for eight-and-twenty, so between us we were on
the staff for forty-three years. That may go some
way to accounting for Punch.
A.W.’s retirement from the staff was apparently
occasioned by increasing age (undenirble) and infirmity
(denied). He has founded since and conducts now John
Bull, a somewhat tepid example of “ wholesome English
fun.” His volume of reminiscences contains 310 pages
with a remarkable index, and was “ knocked off” (p. 275)
“within the space of little more than a fortnight.” It
looks like it. One wonders how ii Beckett, having seen
so many interesting people, could write so little of inte-
rest or importance. His family chronicle is all the world
for him ; but for us, as he has set it down, it is a tiresome
tale of trivialities, and out grows as weary of Punch with
devotion as “ Mark Twain ” grew of “ Punch with care.”
The case is pathetic indeed. It is the case of an amiable
honourable young elderly gentleman. His heart’s desire
is to occupy an inherited arm-chair till he dies (in time
for publication) with a mild joke on his loyal lips. And
his chair has disappeared suddenly.
By the light of The d Becketts of “ Punch ” the case is
tragic indeed. Id is the case of Father William,
jt
You remember +Gdm, our national prophet?
—magnetic, perfumed + Gn.vi ? He recalls himself to
memory in The Origin and Nature of the Universe (Ade-
laide ; Co-operative Printing Co.)—fifteen pages, with a
lovely and soothing portrait of the author. And the origin
and nature of the universe cease to be obscure, j Gum
is no mystic madman with a swag of sinister symbols.
He is a prophet up to the date of State schools and past
the data of Lord Kelvin. His gospel is as plain as pro-
found, as lucid as logical. One is sure that when he per-
mits himself a false concord it are merely a concession to
the natural weakness of the churches.
Leave thou thy sister when she prays
Her early grammar, her pious bulls... , •
The quotation reminds us that t Gum writes much better
than G.-G. Tennyson his speeches. And Pope Pius him-
self breathes no finer air of infallibility. It is useless for
the origin and nature of the universe’ to dodge. Vainly
they hide behind a word or a world, j Gum unrolls them
like a panorama, and shows you the pitiful forked radish
of all the religions shivering in the cold blast of hi#
assurance.
How, then, about Design? Has the universe a
Designer? Yes; the universe which we see has a
Designer, but not the whole of creation. For ths
Designer Himself is part of creation ; He Himself is the
product of Evolution.
The Evolution of the created universe may be
divided, into two periods: that which preceded the
existence of God, and that which has been contem-
porary with His existence . . .
For all practical purposes God is Omnipotent.
Omniscient, and Omnipresent..
Q.ff.D.—And they talk of a conflict between religion and
science 1 They talk of Dowie returning to Adelaide I
Dowie 11 By f Gum 1
Jt
Two Awheel, by Arthur Jose (Lond,, Dent) is a
singularly barren book. In a series of articles, partly
Reprinted from The S.M. Herald, Jose recites cycling
experiences on N.S.W. roads. His impressions are
crisply Written, but show hardly a trace of feeling or
imagination. The trifles that interest him glitter like
quartz pebbles, and are as worthless. Only once or
twice, as in this passage about Australia, i 3 the book in
the least stimulating—
Back there! Ah, dear country of ours, where else
could we wish to be? Is it bricked-up, hedged-in
England that should tempt us away, or the damp
Cornish moors, or the neat formal mechanisms of
France? Where else, so long as your streams run
brown among their boulders and your tracks wind along
the valley-sides through clean bush scents and clear
bushland air ? Let us go back while we may, while your
live alert youthfulness calls to usstillyoung; while there
is heart in us to be inspired, to answer all your chal-
lenges, to take joy in all your moods. Here we grow
dull with the clouds and the crowding townspeople,
we grow soft with the lush green fields and the rain ;
rarely- high on the brow of a Surrey moorland, or
watching the far-off Thame from some hanging wood on
Chiltern edge—we can recall for a moment those air-
spaces lit with splendid sun whereof you were so prodigal.
Will you take us back, dear land, land of our dreams
and our memories—and of our hopes?
The illustrations by “G. W. Lambert, of N.5.W.,” are
much more interesting than the book. Lambert has
failed to send to N.S.W. Gallery yearly pictures, under
the terms of his travelling scholarship : he has appar-
ently settled in London. His work with pen and brush
for Two Awheel is fine—charming pictorially, and for the
most part admirable in fidelity to Australia. His painting
has helped him to gain delicacy and colour with the pen,
and his drawing has lost stiffness. Perhaps a hint of
value will be preserved in the reproduced example.
Jt
In The Five Nations the Kipling geyser falls to
an unremarkable warm spring. The volume includes fifty-
four pieces of verse composed in the last half-dozen years
or so; and not more than three or four of them are
Y?. man who wrote Barrack-Room Ballads.
All the life has gone out of Kipling as artist, and there
remains only the preacher who fits laborious morals to
aull tunes. For the greater part, that is : for the lesser
there are imitations of Swinburne and Tennyson, toler-
able chap-book verse, tolerable journal-verse, and oeca-
Sionally a line or stanza that rings and surges. But little
ot it counts ; none of it matters ; and even the injudicious
ldolators must see that the god has become a compara-
tively stale and weary mechanic.
Look at the “ Dedication ” in the forefront— what harsh
mouthings ! what uncouth posturings 1
Except Distress, which, so will prophets cry,
O ercatne them, houseless, from the unhinting sky ...
And in the imperial task (as worthy) lay
Up our lives’ all to piece one giant day.
There is a meaning ; but look at the crude form I And
unless he make his form valid, Kipling had better preach
in prose.
, an d the Hills ” is Swinburne, carefully
phrased but dissonant, and lifeless, lacking the poetic
impulse, the poetic pang, the breath that makes verse
memorable. More worthy is “The Destroyers," whioh
at least gives a vigorous picture rhythmically. In verse
lute The Second Voyage ” the craftsman that Kipling
tries to be is sufficiently justified.
The sea has shorn our galleries away,
The salt has soiled our gilding past remede :
Our paint is flaked and blistered by the spray.
Our sides are half a fathom furred in weed.
. ,(Foul weather !)
Ana the doves of Venus fled and the petrels came instead,
But Love he was our master at our need /
It is mere phrasing ; but the phrases are neatly put
together. One can compare a piece like “ The Explorer ”
with local rhymes like Ogilvie’s “ The Men Who Blazed
the Track.” Kipling is the cleaner workman, bub he
leaves you cold. Ogilvie writes as if he felt his subject,
and he transfers his feeling to you. Kipling shows
feeling, too, in “Sussex,” but “Sussex” is one of the
scarce items in the fifty-four. “ The Settler ”is another
—with its effect spoilt in this book by printing in
eight-line instead of four-line stanzas.
Always Kipling’s trouble has been that he is nine-tenths
artificer and one-tenth artist. In The Five Nations he is
artificer through and through. The section of “Service
Songs ” holds some swift, bright impressions ; but never
for a whole flawless piece does Kipling bring convic-
tion that he is the soldier’s true mouthpiece. One may
be quoted for the Australian reference.
LICHTENBERG.
N.S.W. CONTINGENT.
Smells are surer than sounds or sights
To make your heart-strings crack —
They start those awful voices o’ nights
That whisper, “ Old man, come back."
That must be why the big things past
And, the little things remain,
Like the smell of the wattle by Lichtenberg,
Riding in, in the rain.
There was some silly fire on the flank
And the small wet drizzling down —
There were the sold-out shops and the bank
And the wet, wide-open town ;
And we were doing escort-duty
To somebody’s baggage-train,
And l smelt wattle by Lichtenberg—
Riding in, in the rain.
Jt was all Australia to mo—
All 1 had found or missed:
Every face I was crazy to see.
And every woman 1 'd kissed :
All that I should n’t ha’ done, God knows !
(A* He knows 1 ’ll do it again).
That smell of the wattle round Lichtenberg,
Riding in, in the rain !
And I saw Sydney the same at ever.
The picnics and brass-bands;
And the little homestead on Hunter River
And my new vines joining hands.
It all came over me in one act
Quick as d shot through the brain —
With the smell of the wattle round Lichtenberg,
Riding in, in the rain.
J have forgotten a hundred fights,
But one I shall not forget—
With the raindrops bunging up my sights
And my eyes bunged up with wet;
And through the crack and stink of the cordite
(Ah Christ ! My country again !)
The smell of the wattle by Lichtenberg,
Riding in, in the rain !
It would be natural if Kipling, for whom circumstance
and himself have built a reputation far above his literary
worth, were by the disillusionment of successive books to
shrink to his real size and due esteem. But the process
may be left more agreeably to clear-sighted Time. One
hopes that The Five Nations will not have a still more
degenerate following.
others received
God and the Agnostics, by “An Englishman”
(Lond., Swan Sonnenschein). A survey of philosophy,
religion, science and politics by an author with Australian
affinities who has read widely, thought shrewdly though
not clearly, and written so clumsily that his book is a
heavy, undigested mass of quotations and opinions, prac-
tically useless.
Essays in Buff (Lond., Walter Scott ; 2s. 6d.)
represent a modest reformer’s plea for the right use and
artistic'adaptation of . the human body. The writer
preaches the propriety and virtue of nudity ; counsels
the marriage of art and athletics ; and declares that “ the
artist is better employed in rendering the naked youth in
all the beauty and vigour of early manhood, than in
depicting the full-blown bourgeois in all the attributes of
vulgar magnificence." When he leaves art and life for
idealistic morality he is less convincing.
The Anglo-Saxon Century, by John R. Dos
Passos (Lond., Putnam; 95.), is an argument for “the
unification of the English-speaking people ” by “ a mem-
ber of the New York bar.” A smooth, clever, and com-
prehensive plea, sweetened to the average intelligence.
The subject has few practical facets at present, and one
watches with only languid interest Dos Passos
polishing. Suffice to say D.P. considers that, precedent
to a useful alliance between Britain and the U.S.A., the
latter must be bribed by the annexation of Canada. That
might be to Canada’s advantage, but discussion is useless
while nine-tenths of Canadians are of a different opinion.
The Exaggerators, by Alan Field. (Lond.,
Richards; 2s. 6d.) [Series of tales with usually an
Indian military background. The motives are cleverly
concocted ; the handling is often spirited. Some of the
author’s ideas are so good that one wishes for a master’s
touch : Field is limited and artificial.)
The Child’s History of Australia, by A.1.M. ;
first part. (Syd., W. Brooks ; 6 d.) [The scheme ig good ;
the details are not well managed. The author does nob
show good judgment in the choice of matter — e.g., Capt.
Cook and skin diseases; defines badly — e.g., transit of
Venus; writes slovenly — e.g., “One reason that the
Dutch did not care to people this country was that they
judged it by the coasts they saw ” ; blunders verbally—
e.g., “ A Dutch vessel called the “ Leewin,” which means
Lioness, sailed from Cape Leewin...” The little book is
badly printed on glossy paper, and the cover curls in
handling.)
A.G.S.
“The Man Who Does” discusses Trousers in
T.P.’s Weekly :—“ Never wear the same pair two days
together. This means that every suit must have an extra
pair, and the practice really is economical. Never lose
sight of the original creases made by the tailor’s iron ;
treasure these creases, and renew them faithfully after
every wearing. I have heard of ideal trouser-presses ; I
am prepared to admit they may exist ; but- I have never
seen them. A truly excellent method of pressing
trousers is to lay them carefully between bed and
mattress and then sleep on them for seven hours.
But the best trouser-press that I have ever had
is a folio edition of Plato in three volumes (printed
by Henry Stephen in Paris in 15— something), I place
the lower part of the fortunate trousers (as far as the
knees) on a chest of drawers, letting the upper part hang
down. I then stretch them out in a faultless shape and
drop Plato on the top of them. The result is worthy of
Plato’s world-wide reputation (when I want to read Plato
I use the two half-crown blue volumes in the Golden
Treasury series).”
The British censor of plays refuses to allow
Duse to perform d’Annunzio’s The Dead City on a London
stage. Europe and the United States have raised no
objection, but British morality is a sterner thing. Wit-
ness Piccadilly at midnight.
4
Up To-Morrow , by W. C. Platts (Lond., Long ;
2s. 6d.). [A book of “humourous” sketches, somewhat
like Adeler’s Elbow-Room, but less good. Still, for
English humour, the book is not so gloomy. The
" seventy illustrations ” fail to amuse.)
CONTRIBUTORS
Medicus : Was at the last Crossley evening in
Adelaide : had to sit on the steps of the starboard organ
gallery, a few feet from the songstress, with a good view
of her port quarter. From this position I could estimate
fairly her expansion of chest during forced inspiration.
Wonderful! Over the horizon of a well-modelled shoulder
one saw a curve heave slowly into view commencing at
the collarbone and ending about the fourth rib. At the
end of a long expiration this entirely disappeared, leaving
the space within these limits almost hollow. And yet
there was no gasp at the recovery. The action was as
easy as that of a blacksmith’s bellows and almost as
majestic. Excepting of this and her statuesque pose and
her absorbing voice, I have no recollection of her : her
singing was so utterly satisfactory that when she turned
and distributed some bows and smiles our way I was
thinking of something else. What a magnificent muscu-
lature she has! Certain dimples are the hall-mark of
beauty of muscle without undue fat. One, which C. lias,
is about the centre of the scapula where the trapezius,
latissimus dorsi and infraspinatus meet. One could see
this go and come with her perfect respiration.
C.G-.W.: Kendall on Browning (17/9/3) is
responsible for the following reflections on qualities in
Australian and other genius.
Some facts have to be pre-reeognised as an introduction
to the “ tortuous ” genius. What he wants to convey is
not a meaning of fact, definitely presentable in so many
words, but a mood-picture he has caught of that fact in
his psychic camera. The true poet at his height is
always a mystic, recognising some batfling quality or
expression in the sphinx-like face of things, which cannot
be written in the line : his words are just a doorway
into an inner world he sees. You must walk in, and let
the atmosphere reveal what it will to your native sense.
Poetry—Symbolism—are midsummer madness to folk
who can’t do this. In an artistic masterpiece, crammed
with meaning, the impatient type of critic who wants all
his art in sharp Rembrandt lights may see little more
than a four by three canvas. Another nify find his
universe mirrored there.
' Size, force, and presentation are three dominant
features in the demand of our Australian spirit, whether
the subject be men, manners or emotions. Fortunately
we temper assertiveness with the somewhat poignant
melancholy that usually broods over a shadowed under-
consciousness. We live in a merciless daylight out of
doors, but in a curtain-drawn luxury of gloom in our
retreat. In the clash of outer and inner forces we have
struck the personal note with some of the intensest heart-
beats that have been spoken into modern poetry.
This cross-stress keeps us to an incessant reaction of
consciousness. We cannot forget ourselves and plunge
away into an inward vision that is a pure reflex of some
living objective, whatever its mood-colouring. Too self-
centred for such abandon, we are at the same time
realists too sharp-sighted to give ourselves away cheaply.
Speak, by Heaven ! we must, but we won’t make fools of
ourselves. So, when we do let our souls go—-in paper or
atmosphere—we are short-cut and elliptical. Then we
get away as quickly and as far from the disburdened
sentiment as if it had turned corpse or Lot’s wife.
Our poetry is still in the constructive stage. We have
not yet drunk deeply enough of its life to have reached
the involuntary, which touches the highest in elemental
matter. (Take Matthew Arnold’s “The Buried Life"
and Wordsworth’s “ Ode to Immortality” as types of the
involuntary quality : here and there in our own Gordon
you find it—giving, more than the calibre of his poetry,
its charm.) In our new lands, with their mental atmo-
sphere still thick with adjustments and unsettled bear-
ings, we have not quite learned to let the spirit go—
beyond easy reach. We always have it (so to speak) by
the sleeve or collar—like an unbroken youngster who
might trip over the bric-a-brac, or the conventions, if we
did n’t watch him.
But we are true impressionists. We must have eternal
freshness and fact: we dare n’t linger on the notes—not
even to save the context. We have yet to learn the art
of completeness, which lies by way of aspect. Our native
genius has still to mature itself. When it does it will be
terse and vital, never out of hand-reach of the communi-
cable, but still with a passionate sense of the Want that
is more t han it can satisfy, the huge that is more than it
oan speak.
“Old Penjostler ” : As to Marcus Clarke’s fads,
Hs was once au apostle of the sun-bath as a cure for all
nervous diseases. One day he called on a friend at Carl-
ton who was suffering from sciatica, and as there was no
one else at home at the time, Marcus easily persuaded the
sufferer to go into the orchard at the back, peel off every-
thinc, and ramble round a la Adam before the Fall by
way of giving the sun a chance to soak in. The friend
looked so happy that Marcus decided to have a solar wash
also,• and the pair were soon strolling round eagerly
discussing one of those psychological subjects upon
which Marcus could talk so.learnedl.v and So seductively.
No notice of time was taken, until suddenly a peal of
woman’s laughter was heard quite close, and a female
voice called out—“ Come this way, Nellie ; Charlie’s in,
the summer-houseiiaving a smoke, I expect. Nice fellow
he is to leave in charge of a house ! ” That closed
the psychological discussion with a sudden snap, and
the naked Marcus darted behind the.gqually naked
Charlie, and holding him as a shield, excitedly whispered,
“ Good heavens ! What shall we do ? Those women are
between us and our clothes.” “Oh, it’s all right,” said
his friend; “It’s only my wife and her sister.” “Oh,
y-y-yes,” stammered poor Marcus, it may be all right for
you—vou know the ladies, and besides you’re a hardened
married man, but I’m an innocent bachelor, and I ’ll drop
dead if they see me in this shameful state. Good Lord,
here they come 1 Hide me ! Sit on me ! Shout to them to
go back. Don’t stand there like a dumb ass ; do some-
thing! No more sun-baths for me!” The “hardened
husband ” gave the warning, and Marcus soon got
into his clothes and over the back fence; but he never
smiled again—until he found himself in his favourite
Melbourne pub. trying to make the billowy-hosomed
barmaid believe she had been Cleopatra during a former
incarnation. (Marcus told this to,Garnet Walch, who told
me.)


The Bulletin
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.,itd.
Are by far the most successful Salesmen
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
OF
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Babbit and Opossum
The Bulletin
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation.
SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTM ENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
INI EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
Leading: House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
MEN’S TREBLE-SEWN LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, s£oz.—Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS—
-ss, 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WISDEN’S LEATHER BALLS—
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS—
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS.- sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ \
BATS J
pgsg ‘sg ‘p9 sx ‘pgsx ‘si ‘P6 ‘P9
9 9 f 8 3XO "°N
BOYS’ BATS,
Cane —
No. 3 4 5 6
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \
All Cane— J
P 9 SSI ‘P9 six ‘P9 sox ‘P9
P 9 s 8 ‘P9 S Z ‘P9 s 9 ‘P9 S S
MEN'S CANE'i
and RUBBER}
BATS- J
14s 6d, 15s, 15s 6d, 16s 6d
17s 6d, 18s Gd, 20s, 25s
Send for Catalogue, Pea- Free—full
list of Bats, by all Best Makers.
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
6s, 7s 9d, 9s Gd, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEO GUARDS-
Boys’, 4s 6d, ss, 6s Gd pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s Gd, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS—
Boys’, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s 6d, 88s 6d, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
&E&KY
3s 6d
Hanmca*
5s
STANbAftb
7s 3d
1
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure in
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 255, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players—
30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, &c.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation 4s 6d doz.
Covered Regulation ... 9s Gd ~
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg. ... 10s
SLAZENGER’S Covered 16s
AYRES’ Grey Reg 8s 6d „
AYRES’ Covered 12s 6d, 16s ~
AYRES’ Champion 16« ~
.TAYLORS
m
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 16s 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias —
Ivory Mounted ... 20s, 24s
TAYLOR’S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped by the
N.S. W. Bowling Association.
Remittance, including: payment for
freight, must accompany each order.
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
To all who want to regain their
health, who want to have their
strength restored to them, we offer
oneof our illustrated Books.
They describe the treatment by
Electricity of all kinds of Chronic
cases, going carefully into detail;
and illustrations show how the
current is directed to all parts of
the body. We send the book post
paid to any address. It thoroughly
explains to you the "value of our
Belt, and shows you a few of the
very grateful people we have cured.
We will send one, closely sealed, to
anyone who wishes it. If you are not as well as
you ought to be, send for one to-day. Why suffer
when you have a speedy cure for your trouble ?
Grateful Testimony.
Mr. E. McDonagh, of Cook’s River Road, St.
Peters, after 9 years suffering, writes:
Gentlemen,--I have great pleasure in stating that after being a
complete invalid for nine y'ears—not able to dress myself—it is mar-
vellous to think I could have received so much benefit from the Dr.
McLaughlin High-Grade Electric Belt in one month. Previous to
using it, for four years I could not walk five paces without the aid
of two sticks. Now I can walk a considerable distance with one.
I am completely free from the pain in my back, and can partly
dress myself, and the pains in my bones are greatly eased.
Mr. Wm. Oglesby, of Kegworth-street, Leichhardt, who
suffered from chronic sciatica and lumbago, says:
I have had quite a number of callers who came to inquire how I fared under your
treatment. As you remember, I could hardly walk on account of my sciatica when I
first came to you.
Three months’ treatment using your high grade Belt and No Drugs has made a
new man of me.
My appearance under your methods have convinced everyone in my neighbourhood,
for I can now irive young fellows odds and beat them out.
Quite a difference from having to work on my knees, or not at all, as doctors had
told me I was incurable.
You may request anyone to write or call for personal verification of all I say.
LET us give you back your Health and Vigor, without which
there can be no happiness, no joy, no peace, and, as a conse-
quence, life becomes a misery. How many men are there at
the present time in this great country who are living a miserable
existence, and go on from day to day getting worse, and never think
that their trouble will become chronic ; whereas if they came to us
we could, within the space of a month or two, change the whole
aspect of their lives, make them feel that life is a pleasure. Yes —
Or. |Dc[aughlin’s Electric gelt
will give you back that Health and Strength which every one of you
desire. No man could ask for more ! No man would expect more
than that. A great many have been seeking it for years by the
The Bulletin
/
aid of Drugs without getting any benefit;
they have read of our Wonderful Belt, sent
for it, and to-day they cannot thank us suffi-
ciently, for we have cured them. Proof we have
of these Marvellous Cures, and, anyone desiring
it, we can send them sufficient evidence of the
great good our Belts have done.
MEN! LET US APPEAL TO YOU!
Do riot go on wasting your lives ; come to us and we promise you we will give you relief from
your trouble, whether your complaint be Constipation, Weak Back, Varicocele, Insom-
nia, Dyspepsia, Acidity, Come-and-Go Pains, That Languid, Tired Feeling, Blood
Disorders, Rheumatism, Nervousness, Liver, Kidney and Bladder Troubles, Lum-
bago, Sciatica, Indigestion, and other ailments, our Belt will give you almost instant relief.
“Electricity is Life,” and, as applied by our Belts, it sends a soothing current of
The Bulletin
Vital Nerve Force
throughout the
entire system.
After wearing it
a few days you
begin to feel your
Strength and
Vitality returning.
To the man whose strength and vitality is failing through business and other
worries, it gives back his Nerve Power after a few days’ use. Do not Delay,
Men ■ Write to-day, or call and we will make you a FREE DIAGNOSIS
of your ailment. We absolutely charge you nothing, but we wish to prove to you
that our Belt is all that we claim it to be. We will be glad to explain every
detail of our treatment to you.
CAUTION.—Beware of advertisements purporting to offer Electric Belts
“ Free.” Write to us for full particulars. If anyone has wasted money on these
frauds write us and we will see that the money is refunded.
f dr. McLaughlin co.^
IOOW. MARKET ST.,
1678. SWA-KTSTON ST., MELBOURKTEJ
54= WILLIS ST„ WBLLIHTGLTOKT, KT,Z.
HEALTH


PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 1881.
First Manufacturers of Rubber Goods in Australia.
Rubber Sheet, Rubber Valves, Rubber Buffers.
Armoured and Plain.
For Gardens.
For Steam.
Any Sizes
or Thickness.
A Full Assortment of
all Best Makes.
Best Quality.
Any Size.
HOSE.
TUBING.
ENGINE PACKING.
RUBBER BELTING.
TITAN JOINTING.
For High-pressure delivery.
For Suction.
Of best Quality Rubber.
Will stand any Climate,
To hold
400 lbs. steam.
For High
Pressure Steam.
Will make a tight and lasting joint oil any surface and under any steam pressure.
Vriil stand any degree
o( steam heat.
DUGONG JOINTING.
The best Jointing eve:'
„ made for Amm j ia.
Rubber and Oil Waterproof Clothing.
Lubber Coats, Boots, Goloshes, Leggings, Oilskin Coats, Jackets, Pants: in fa
everything to keep out the wet.
Enemas.
SURGICAL
Air and Water Cushion* and Beds.
Fountain Syringes.
Hot Water Bags.
Operating Cushions.
Ice Caps. Atomizers.
RUBBER
GOODS
Rubber Gloves.
Klastic Web Goo'
Bandnpes, Stbcl.
Urinals.
3c® JJ-lffcJLi9 &: C? O. 270 George St., Sjd;:y.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free on Application.
—it
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) &at Heiidon.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free
V
By FRANK RENAR.
V
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
RUPTURE
CAN BE CURED
Without
Operation
Pain, Danger, Inconvenience, or Loss of Time. A genuine success. IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
The acme of comfort and a feeling of perfect confidence is secured from the first hour of using
Dr. Langston’s combined treatment. Write to-day for Treatise No. 12—posted 2 stamps—and
read the CONVINCING!- TESTIMONY received from all parts of Australia, from hundreds
of men who HAVE BEEN CURED. Used and endorsed by Clergymen, Statesmen, Lawyers,
Physicians, Farmers, Artisans, Navvies, Miners; in fact, men and women in every station of
life. These living witnesses support facts that leave no room for doubt.
VARICOCELE
CURED—No Cutting or Pain.
The stagnant blood is driven from the dilated veins, and all soreness and swelling subsides.
Men suffering from Weakened Nerve Force, Constant Depression, Gloomy Forebodings, Fast
Becoming Unfitted for Active Business Life, fail to attribute their deplorable state to the
PROPER CAUSE. They know they have VARICOCELE, as they have suffered some dis-
comfort on account of it, particularly while standing. But the evil effects due to
VARICOCELE are so gradual that they neglect it until the entire system is undermined, and
they are forced to realise that something must be done to prevent them from breaking down
completely. To such sufferers I say, Don’t fall into the hands of Quacks—don’t submit
to the knife—don’t pay enormous sums to so-called specialists for medicines, electric belts, etc.
My perfect, simple device will CURE YOU EASILY, Permanently, and Quickly, without
inconvenience or loss of time. Send for Treatise No. 15 —posted 2 stamps.
Surgeon LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.
129 Collins St., MelbotiMo; and at 177 Liverpool St., Sydney.
*
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT :
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
'i'
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
In over ioo years’ world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
ing Ointment extant. It is particularlv recommended fnr the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) 1/1 %,
2/9. 11 /-, and 22/- pots.
Dr.ROBERTS’ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1/1 %; 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by—
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
C.L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Barn 1766. Died 1834.
NO CURE. NO PAY.
V
W*.
mm
Not a penny down. Simply drop us a post-
card with your name and address, and we forward
at once one of our latest Improved High Grade
Electric Belts. You can use it three months,
then pay us if cured, and the price will only be
half what others ask for their belts. If not
cured, you can return the belt to us at our ex-
pense and your word will deeide. We are willing
to trust you entirely, knowing that we have the
best and most perfect belt used in the Common-
wealth to-day, and nine men in ten always pay
when cured.
We Will Trust You.
This modern Belt is the most perfect and
complete ever invented. It will cure all cases
of Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lum-
bago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and Stomach
complaints. We will send absolutely
HPXHEaIIS
A beautifully illustrated Medical Book, which should be read by all weak n.
This will be sent free in plain wrapper, all charges prepaid. It is free, and
the asking. Don’t neglect this splendid opportunity to regain your health.
?n and women,
ca i be had for
Write to-day.
The Dr. J. fl. Austin Electric Co. (Dept. M.)
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
The Bulletin
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
9
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING!
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds ofyoung and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN. BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Writs for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST:
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d posted. ; Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. How to Dance, Is ; post, Is 3d. How
to Wrestle, Is ; post, Is 2d. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Fop, Is 3d posted. Tailoring for
Amateurs, Is; post; Is 2d. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s
each posted. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Cd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger .Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, is 3d. Dog Keeping,
is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, .illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is 6d. Fowler’s Science of Life, 10s 6d.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Nat Gould’s
Sporting Novels, 2s edition for Is 9d, post paid any
of them. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.'
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Horse and Cattle,
Is. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted; Parlor Magig, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d. Every
Man His Own. Carpenter, Is. 3d.- Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Letter
Writer Up-to-Date, ,1s posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : Wiiat tO do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Cabinet Making for Amateurs,
illustrated, 3s 6d post. Resurrection, Bd. posted.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Bar - Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
How to, Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d, Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6di. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical, Palmistry, Is.
: Love and ,Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, 1 Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for, Amateurs, Is,: Morgan’s Free-
masonrV, Is. 3d. post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d.,
and Is. Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Ro-
mances, 2s. Ingersoll’s Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. Howto Read Heads
■ (Jas. Coates), is. 6d. posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 7s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth hound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. costed.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
The Bulletin
EVERY Weak, Nervous, an l Enfeebled Man or
Woman will find ELECTRICITY as snnnlipd by our
Perfected and Patented ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELT
a. wonderful restorative to robust health and vigor.
TEST IT FREE OF CHARGE. Our Electric Belt baa
no obsolete and cumbersome chain to he saturated with 1
Vinegar or Sulphuric Acid to torture the shin.
We desire that every sufferer should wear this mar-
vellous Belt and test Its healing virtues for thirty days,
as we are certain that it- will cure, and that the wearer,
after the month’s trial, will then prefer to keen rather
than return the Belt. Do not miss this opportunity to
regain your Health, for Health means Wraith. Health
and Strength means Happiness in Mind and Body.
Enjoy a full measure of life by being strong and robust
to a vigorous old age.
Remember, we give a WRITTEN GUARANTEE with
each Electric Belt that it will permanently cure you. If
it does not we will promptly return the full amount paid.
Send for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free),
explaining oUr different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also TESTIMONY, which will convince the most sceptical
Address: Electric Appliance Company
DEPT. H,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
CHOKE
TIPS
From the Famous
Farms of South
Africa.
Black, White, or Cream
5/ 1
The Bunch
Post Free.
Worth
15/-
We make this special offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips.
WRITE NOW ! Send Postal Notes.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATNERSNOP,
Corn r Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention Tiie Bulletin. '
THE BULLETIN STOKY BOOK:
Price, 4s. 6d.


you if you pay no attention to your
weak throat and lungs.
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
Weak throats and weak lungs easily
give way. Some extra strain, as a
fresh cold, and you are down with
bronchitis or pneumonia. Better
strengthen these weak places before it
is too late. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
heals these irritable throats, gives tone
to the relaxed membranes, and imparts
strength to the lungs.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass.. U.S.A.
Danger ahead!
The engineer
doesn’t see the
broken rail.
There is sure
to be a terri-
ble wreck.
There’s a
wreck
ahead for
Cockroaches!
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
FOR
Indigestion, Biliousness and
Acidity.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS IN
OLD AND YOUNG.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
CRAIG &. AIT KEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I’ll Try It.”
Thtßttutt.
Too Stout
I was for years; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeepers
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use. —Throw the Carbide down the tube;
the Machine does the rest.
to he vs*
wWii
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained several
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply C; rbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than is
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
0
•>
The Bulletin
WILL CORE^T HAT '"f ;
flacking Cough,
Troublesome Cold',
Annoying influenza
t A SMALL BOTTLES Vhfcgu
The Bulletin
Double Sealed
Turnout Seat
Buggy - £lB 10s.
With Brake and
Lamps.
Sulkies - £8 10s.
Send for a
Catalogue.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex St., Sydney.
<?/ Hwvn^W
Board Buggies
Reliable and
Strong, £9 10s.
Large Stocks of
all light vehicles,
Buggies, Sulkies,
Phaetons. Send
for a Catalogue.
H. HILLIER,
130 Sussex-street
Sydney, N.s.w,
H.F. SMITH
BRISBANE
21/-
21/-
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wales.
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order ; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value —best in Austral-
asia.
Yours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading Jeweller.
H. F. SMITH,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
WINCHESTER
MODEL 1902 SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE
THE name “Winchester” on this
1 rifle is a guarantee in itself of its
quality. The Model 1902 is a hammerless take-
down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly.
It is made with an 18-inch round barrel, fitted with open
front and peep rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22 Long
Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. Some makes of
.22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper, but they are a great
deal cheaper in quality than they are in price. We don t
try to see how cheap we can make this rifle but how good.
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
Oar Stock of WINCHESTER GOODS
Is tmeqaa! f ed in the Commonwealth* Catalogues Free.
PERRY BROS. -
HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
£
RU
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT BALL’ Without It you hart a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, UNO.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
THE REPRESENTATIVE BOOK OP AUSTRALIAN HUMOR-
“ Steele Rudd’s ” ON OUR SELECTION
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETI. ]
A Graveyard Chanty.
There’s a coffin being lowered
On the white ropes sliding easy ;
In a minute they’ll be heaving down
The gravel, clay, and stones;
They’ll stack white flowers above him
That will wither ere the morning;
The priest will ask a blessing,
And the worms can have the bones.
Ho ! he won’t be back to-morrow ;
He’s hid away for ever,
Staring wildly in the darkness
For the Reason of It All;
So braid your tresses, girlie,
Dry your eyes and stay your yearnings—
He wouldn’t heed your kisses
And he cannot hear your call.
Someone else will walk beside you
In the starlight of the future ;
Someone else will softly tell you
All the tilings he used to tell;
Someone else will pick his work up
Where he left it all unfinished—
The system never falters —
Someone else will do as well.
’Bye, good-bye, the ropes are running;
He’s hid away for ever ;
The rusty shovels grate among
The clogging clay and stones.
Leave the drooping flowers to wither ;
The grass will grow to-morrow ;
Someone else will do his duties,
And the worms can have the bones.
M. L.
J. BARR.
In the Shadow of the Hillside.
In the shadow of the hillside all the scrubland is
a-flower ;
All the magic and the beauty and the fragrance of
the Spring
Is astir in every gully, is awake in every bower,
Where the red-gum blossoms scatter and the
wild birds sing.
In the shadow of the hillside golden sunlight
streams and lingers
Through the fretted leaves a-murmur, on the
tangled fern and moss,
All the winds are softly playing, as with magic
fairy fingers,
Music of the merry woodlands, of the flowers
and the floss.
In the shadow of the hillside we have wandered
in life’s Maytime,
In the hours of youth and gladness, in the days
of long agone,
When the dewy morn was fragrant with the
scented winds of daytime,
While the birds and wild bees tarried and the
sunbeams shone.
From the shadow of the hillside all the glamor is
departing,
We have lost the keys of fairyland— the shining
silver keys—
And the woods have lost their magic, and we go
no more sweethearting
In the shadow of the hillside, ’neath the old gum-
trees.
VIO.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
The Retreat.
Against my lonely latter years
I ’ll build a faery home for me—
Proof against sorrow with its fears,
And age with its adversity.
Within a region bosomed high
Above the ways of worldly men,
In a demesne where by-and-by
I oft shall come and go again ;
Ah ! there my home in a green nook
Shall sweetly stand the siege of time,
Where Thought may read his riddle book
As to the murmur of old rhyme.
And faery footings still shall lead
My feet among mesmeric ways —
Where life is like a dream indeed,
And all the days are summer days.
But sylphs and fays and simple things
Shall murmur in my pensive ear,
Until the change shall come that brings
Me and my world to ruin here !
N.s.w.
R. CRAWFORD.
Noontide.
Wander free over hills and passes,
Rest ’mid the ferns in the hollows blue,
Lying at ease on the scented grasses,
Fresh and cool from the morning’s dew.
High overhead flames the sun in splendor,
Pungent the scent of the gum-trees tall;
Shimmer of heat on the foliage tender,
Noonday silence is over all.
Over all lies the hush of sleeping ;
A small spring sings me a drowsy song
In a silver thread from the hilltop creeping,
Kissing the pebbles it glides along.
The sun glows fiercely in molten splendor,
The wind wakes not and the birds are still 5
Only the sky, throbbing, blue and tender,
And the lullaby soft of the gliding rill.
’Tis the lotus-calm of the noontide hour.
A bee o’ercorae by the drowsy smell
Sweetly sleeps on the glowing flower
Where his weary velvet body fell ;
Rests till the breath of the night wind tender
Blows from the gates of the south ajar,
When the sun sinks red and the pale moon slender
Shall rise o’er the crest of the hills afar.
VIC,
K.A.H.


A NOVEL PRESENT.
QN receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 5/* we will forward to
address in Australia one of our Handsome
•f*- Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. O F Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant, 6/6.
Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire Kine, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
The Bulletin
" ACTS UKIt A CHARM. 1 *
JONES’
Rhetimaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER PAILS TO CUM
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
28. 9d . PKR BOTTLE
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
aad 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best;
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly,
for
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us i
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
parttculars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians,
Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G. P. 0,, Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
.EYE,
ointment
CURES
m
GRIMAUuS INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORIMAIJLT A Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
OLEAG” cores ECZEMA
AND ALL SKIN
DISEASES.
Discoverer—Christopher Mudd, rx.s., f.rg.s., m.b. Ph.s., u Botanist to the King of England
during His Majesty’s Indian tour.
BTOPS THE INTENSE ITCHING. BRINGS OUT THE DISEASE.
IS NOT A GREASE. USED IN MELBOURNE HOSPITALS.
Testimonials from sufferers Skin Specialists failed to cure. Advice Free—Personal or by Letter.
Price —2/0, 4/6, 15/-. Postage extra. All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Hordern’s, Foy’s, Pattinson’s, Lasseter’s, Grace Bros. Depots— Horwitz, Pitt Street, and
Elliott Bros. Ltd. Chief Depot-F. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SAVE YOUR HAIR
With Shampoos of Cuticura Soap
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling half,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticuka Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the form of bath 3
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toilet, as well as by millions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticuka Ointment, to Instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Fills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set Is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue do la Paix, Paris. Potter Drug
and Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
v ---- _ - odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cutictjka Resolvent, as well as for ail other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 hoses. Cdticuea Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, digestive, and the purest, sweetest, most successful and
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL &900,00 Qt
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bobble are universally acknowledged
‘ l '° DEFY COMPEiTITIOU.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
BOOKS
The Bulletin
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. " Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is ;
post Is 3d. Howto Wrestle,
9d &Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare t book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 60. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 3d. House
Painting and Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d ;
post, Is 6d. Mr Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, is 3d.’
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. All The Bullemn series.
Howto Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is : post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is ; post Is 3d. Piano
Tuning and Repairing, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d ; post Is 6d.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; posted Is
2d. Australian Doctor, cures for all diseases,
Is 3d; post Is 6d. Letter Writer. Up-to-Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Self Instructor :
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, Is. French
Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s. Cabinet
Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
Howto Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
I'.V Old Pro, is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is 6d. Dynamos and Electric Motors 1/3
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d ;
post, 2s lOd. Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made
Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is 6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court of
England, Is 3d, post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT,
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions. Is;
posted, is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address,
stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2 : Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
Drench Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
E®nts._ No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No 6 •
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYD
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHiS.
“gout^
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pbodt & Co., 229,.
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
Deafness 0 Head Noises Cured
NO EAR-DRUMS. NO OPERATION.
A Colonist 50 years, deaf 43 years, CURED HIMSELF.
CONSULTATION FREE. Write or Call for Particulars.
MILLSOM AGENCY,
36 Carrington Street,
Wynyard Square, Sydney
NERVOUSNESS.
DOSS of ENIRGY and STRENGTH.
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Free for Asking*.
IA/RITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Armand Gqpraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
Teat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal..
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne. .
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
II
you:
are
suffering fronn
1 exhaustion. Vari-
cocele, Wasting,..
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.i#
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which'
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;.
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of:
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
teq, coluns street. Melbourne. 1 '
HAYMAN’S
If you have a Cough or Cold
HAYMAN’S BALSAM WILL CURE IT.
BALSAM
Gives Rest and Sleep. Pleasant to
take. Invaluable in the Nursery.
Sold by all
CHEMISTS
and STORES.
CURES.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frit, is
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
lend stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Refreshing and Agreeable.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC ;
TOILET SOAP.
A pleasant Antiseptic Soap (containing 10%
| pure Carbolic Acid). Should be used regular(y
i to improve the skin and complexion and prevent
I infection.
F.C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.


A Torturing Liver.
“HN EXPERIMENT."
“The Best Bargain I Ever Made.”
The Case of IV|rs. B. LftWUfJ.
(by a reporter).
The inventions of paper and the press
have put an end to all the restraints with
which our forefathers were fettered, and
they have not only made everyone a writer,
but have also enabled every mind to pour
itself into print and diffuse itself over the
whole intellectual world. The consequences
are inestimable, as, if the slow and laborious
operation of writing on parchment was still
in existence it would be difficult to acquaint
all our readers with such important matters
as are spoken of by Mrs. Bridget Lawler,
of Nortliwood-street, Camperdown.
‘ l l was once stricken with a terrible
malady,” began that lady. “It was an
attack of rheumatism which started in my
feet and worked its way into my hands, the
pain being so great that the joints felt as if
they were being screwed round in a vice. I
was very stout when I was first taken ill,
but four years’ intense suffering took all the
flesh off my body, besides making me very
weak and irritable. Some days the pains
were not so bad, while at other times they
were so severe that I was a regular cripple
through them, and could not get out of bed.
At the best my limbs were almost useless,
for I had to go from one room to another
on my hands and knees, so that will tell
you how sorely pressed I was.”
“ bid any complications arise?” queried
the newspaper man
“ They did indeed—any amount of them,
for my system seemed to be upset right
throughout. One of the chief causesofmy
weakness was through my food coming back
almost as soon as it was taken, and I hardly
got five minutes’ respite from letching both
day and night. No wonder, then, that my
eyes felt swollen and that my sight was bad,
and that 1 used to lie in a state of exhaustion
for hours, with my head pierced by sharp
pains as if rheumatism was there also. Oh !
it was a wretched time for me, and one
w hich I would not go through again for
thousands of pounds. I thought thevomit-
lng was caused through food being taken
against my inclination, but I w-as bound to
ea a, li tic sometimes, even though my
appetite w as gone, or I would have collapsed
altogether A heavy kind of pain in the
cnest was very troub esome, too, as it
seemed to weigh me down to such an extent
that I could not get my breath properly,
and thoughts of smothering often entered
my mind, although I was not afraid of
doing so in my sleep, because I very rarely
got any. It was quite an extraordinary
event for me to sleep three hours at a time,
ami only happened when I was so exhausted
that even my tortures could nob keep me
awake any longer ; but for all that I did
not feel rested afterwards, as the nasty
dreams I had seemed to take away all the
refreshing influences of sleep. When my
eves opened again I still felt languid and
heavy and so low spirited and desolate that
all brightness s< eised to have vanished from
my life. After taking any necessary
nourishment my stomach filled out with
wind, thus bringing into force another dis-
comfort, which frequently developed into
pains like the cramps, and lasting till every-
thing, as usual, was vomited. About the
slioiuders, too, I had reason to complain
owing to irritating pains getting a hold
tliei e, whde nothing could be more un-
welcome than the sickly taste I had in my
mouth every morning, besides having a
■whitish coating on my tongue. These
symptoms made me understand very clearly
that my liver was deranged to a serious
degree, and I suppose my doctors knew that
as well, but still I did not benefit myself iu
any way by remaining under their treat-
ment.”
“ How many doctors did you have?”
“ It would be very bard for me to say
exactly. Indeed, I had so many that I
cannot remember them all, and I have no
reason to keep them in mind, because not
one of them did me any good. The more I
went to the worse I got, and then I started
taking advertised pills and medicines, one
particular kind of which having such an
injurious effect upon me that after taking a
certain quantity I was almost paralysed on
one side of my body. There was very little
medicine I had not taken more or less of,
but I was now afraid to resort to any of
them again. I went on in misery for a
while without anything, but, being so help-
less that I could not even handle a cup, I
thought I would never get better that way,
and as I had tried everything but Clements
Tonic it would not do much harm to see
what that medicine was like.”
“ Was your experiment attended with any
better results ? ”
“It was the best bargain I ever made in
my life when I bought some Clements Tonic,
for there was no uncertainty or indecision
about its action or my internal organs,
which felt its curative propensities much
more readily than I had deemed possible.
For a long time past my nerves had been
very weak, and I was upset and tremulous
at all sorts of trifling incidents, but that
was one of my troubles which Clements
Tonic remedied straight away. My nervous
system was greatly invigorated after taking
three or four bottles, and then I ceased
meeting difficulties half-way, for I was so
much brighter in spirits and more hopeful
through receiving such benefit from
Clements Tonic that I thought I might yet
leave my sufferings behind if I gave that
medicine a fair trial. And thus when each
bottle was finished I got another, the
returns for my outlay being a good healthy
appetite and a steady falling off in my
pains. My headaches did not last long
against Clements Tonic, and all the time
my liver symptoms were losing their in-
tensity. 1 slept well at nights, because my
rheumatic pains were less violent, whilst
those about my shoulders and chest had
left altogether, leaving me to breathe with-
out the least distress. I got up with my
mouth free from its objectionable taste, and
after each meal of the day there was an
absence of flatulence and consequent pains ;
but to describe each healthful blessing
which came from every bottle of Clements
Tonic would, perhaps, take up too much of
your time. I must content myself by say-
ing that in a few weeks my internal com-
plaints were quite obliterated, and I was
able to get about my work with a cheerful
heart and a contented mind. The
strengthening and disease-removing powers
of Clements Tonic simply astounded me
after the many experiences I had with other
medicines, and I would be very ungrateful
indeed if I kept this knowledge to myself.”
“ Did your various pains leave as quickly
as the rest ? ”
“ No ; but although it took some time to
get me well and strong again in every
respect there is none the less credit due to
Cli ments Tonic, as it was the only medicine
which was able to bring me back to health,
and I am willing to let you publish my story
in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Bridget Lawler, of Northwood-street,
Camperdown, Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting
of four folios, and consecutively numbered from one
to four, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements-which I give voluntarily, and
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
the Oaths Aot, 1900.
Subscribed and declared
twenlyfifth day of March, one
and two, before me,
at Camperdown; this
thousand nine hundred
ROBERT ELSTUB, J.P.
y
m
T
M
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victoria.
Canz Induction Motor. SOLE AGENTS s
The Rostra! ps Engineering JJo., [td., South f!)elb.
THE
BULLETIN
STORY
BOOK
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS.
From all Booksellers, or the Publishers.
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
PRICE, 4s. 6d.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 214 Qeorye-st., Sydney, Austr
‘alia.
FCTPi THE BUSH WORKEE
The Bulletin
yjjMTrrm
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JJOTICE TO WI.ROURKBI VISITOR!*
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hs. •^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner hag a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Hvghts
JnfanU
7RY sS
•S
She
FOOD
/Refuse a//Z/n/Zat/ons,
Satisfying, Strengthening Soothing for Infants
Agreeable.Digestible, Nourishing
AGFftTS FOP SYDZZZY
SAYFPS AlLPOfir <5t POTTZP
i
RIDGE’S FOOD MILLS. LONDON. E*c
DEBILITATED
WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
.CURED
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
See my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, igoi, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
Within the reach of all. No restrictions no
Hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, m.r.c.s..
129 Collins-st., Melbourne.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing- sufferers bow they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS 'TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
SYZDIETZE'Y'-
TJSB
SPOOLER’S
The Bulletin
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS.LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
? ome . as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen*”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. “*(I
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAfI.
Wore a Torture
BELT.
SUFFERED TERRIBLE AGONY.
From wearing an Electric Belt
charged by the use of
SULPHURIC Tie in.
Mr. W. Folley, Alfred Woollen Mills,
Williamstown, Vic., writing to the Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt Co., tells how he
was scarred and burned by the use of a
Free He It, which he had erroneously
been led to believe was as good as theirs.
He paid £4 for the Free Belt because
he had been convinced that by paying
this cash price he was obtaining a similar
appliance to Dr. McLaughlin’s Famous
rejuvenator which has gained World
Wide fame as a Curative Agent. It goes
to show how misleading are advertise-
ments which seem to offer something for
nothing.
Gentlemen—ln answer to your kind in-
quiries after my health, I beg to state that
I have been completely cured of the Scia-
tica that has troubled me for years. I
cannot thank you enough for your gentle-
manly treatment and fair dealing with your
patients, as I know from others that their
treatment has been the same as mine.
I may just as well let you know my ex-
perience in seeking a cure for my trouble
before I purchased one of your High Grade
Belts. I had been under doctors and re-
ceived scant relief; and also tried various
quacks, but it was all the same. I then
placed myself in the hands of a Specialist
(in Melbourne) guaranteed to cure Rheu-
matism and Sciatica, but received very
small benefit from the treatment. I then
had my attention drawn to Electricity.
Well, I thought, “ Never venture, never
win,” so I PROCURED first of all a Belt
for £1 and was very much disappointed
because I was informed that it was neces-
sary to take a long and exceedingly ex-
pensive course of drug treatment. I would
not do this and then I wrote for, and ob-
tained a so-called Free Belt, with a
most “ Wonderful Pedigree,” at a cost of
£4. I wore the Belt according to the in-
structions given faithfully for a period of
five weeks, and by that time I was Burnt
and Blistered so badly that I could not
wear it longer, and still no relief was
gained, although the Belt was guaranteed
to Cure Anything in Sciatica in One
Month .t You bet I was very much dis-
couraged in regard to Electric Belts..
However, I was persuaded to come and
just see you, gentlemen. I then found
that I had been. wearing a Torture Belt
and very Wrongly Applied, and quite
enough to give and patient a Horror of
so-called Electric Belts. After the con-
sultation I decided to place myself in yorir
hands. I knew my case was very diffi-
cult, as I was compelled to follow my em-
ployment, and standing at the vice was
irksome, and the complaint was a very .
stubborn one. However, gentlemen, your
Belt, coupled with your advice, has made
me a grateful patient. I thank you kindly
for supplying me with a remedy which has
Completely Cured Me, and strongly recom-
mend it to all and sundry that I find are
suffering from the distressing malady
called “ Sciatica.”
I have not been wearing the Belt for the
past fortnight, but have passed it over to
my wife, who has received great benefit
for nervous troubles.
I remain, your grateful patient, '
W. FOLLEY
GENUINE BELTS give GENUINE RELIEF.
Send to THE DR. McLAUGHLIN CO.,
100 W. Market-st., Sydney ; 167 J Swanston-st., Melbourne
64 Willis-st., Wellington, N.Z.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingukstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTIOii,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestrb & Tkuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


The Bulletin
Ask for
Hennessy’s Brandy
the Standard
of Purity
Throughout
the World.
bottled im cognac.
The Bulletin
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards- of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
King Marine Oil Engines.
2\ to 500 H.P. 1903 MODELS.
Estimates given for Fitting Cargo Boats, Tug Boats, Fishing Boats and Trawlers, Auxiliary
Power or Pleasure Boats. Vessels of all sizes built and fully equipped.
PUMPING PLANTS. REFRIGERATING PLANTS. COLD STORAGE for Pishing Boats.
Information and Prices furnished by—
J. F. McDERMOTT & CO., 30 PITT street, SYDNEY.
Factory Agents for Australia and the South Seas.
CIGARETTES THAT SATISFY
“CAMEOS”
OF
COURSE
I
m
IT!
I
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel [o.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only an
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary-
i/ci 1 v
HULL?
The Host Successful American
Traction Engine made.
TRACTION ENGINES.
Fitted with Two (2) Speeds and
Steel Gearing throughout.
Lists and Particulars FREE on application to the SOLE AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND:
CLARK & FAUSET, Eagle St., Brisbane,
The Bulletin
BAKER & ROUSE
PROPRIETARY LTD.
HAVE opened a full line of the new
44 AUSTRAL ” Cameras, built to
their order to suit Australian re-
quirements. The ** AUSTRAL ** Cameras
are of the best material, perfect In
mechanical construction, accurate In
adjustment and neat in finish* All details and fittings are of the most approved
modern type*
“ AUSTRAL ” No. I. Roll Film. Pictures 2 {in. square - - Price, 6s.
“AUSTRAL ” No. 2. Roll Film. Pictures 3J x2\ inches - Price, 10s.
“ AUSTRAL ” No. 3. A -plate magazine. 12 Plates or 24 Films Price, £1 Is.
“ AUSTRAL ” No. 4. For Roll Films or Unequalled value Price, £4 4s.
“AUSTRAL ” Junior. For Students. |-plate size, very compact Price, 7s. 6d.
In every respect the best low price cameras made. INSPECTION INVITED.
Melbourne
Adelaide.
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.,
QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
A COOL SMOKING TOBACCO.
Absolutely Pure, and manufactured
from the finest selected Virginian Lea*
ASR FOR
“KEYSTONE” TOBACCO
Dark and Bright.
Cut or Plug.
All Tobacconists and Storekeepers.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24, — No, 1240.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1903.
Price 6d.
THE GREAT FREETRADE ARGUMENT.
“GENTLEMEN,—THIS IS MY FAMOUS SIX HATTERS JIM-JAM—THE ONE THAT HAD THE DOOR DISLOYALLY SLAMMED IN ITS FACE. (THE DOOR
WASN’T SLAMMED, BUT THAT DOESN’T MATTER.) I’VE BROUGHT THE DOOR ALONG WITH ME AS CORROBORATIVE EVIDENCE.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“ Australia for the Australians. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiib Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The, Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clip pings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tins Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are notresponsible, for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to Tub Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
anil interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Liulgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 flout St., Capetown ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon .—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
R.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1903.
Wanted (again) A Freetrader who
Doesn’t Find his Creed too Foul to he
put in Practice.
The Commonwealth political campaign has com-
menced in earnest, and already almost everything
has happened except the Freetrade candidate who
promises to vote for Freetrade if he is returned.'
Also, anything that hasn’t happened yet may
probably be relied upon to happen before the
campaign is over—except the Freetrade candidate
who is going to vote for Freetrade. He never
happens. The fair green surface of Australia is
already black with the crawling of candidates who
declare that Protection is accursed, that whoever
advocates it is a fool or a knave, that whatever
country adopts it is on the high road to ruin ;
that Freetrade made England the greatest, richest
and most durable country on earth, and that
it is the only way to prosperity and the only thing
which makes one jolly and fat—and who also
promise solemnly that, if the people will only put
them in, they will not go in for Freetrade. These
amazing people offei', as the price of votes, to
practise a reasonable amount of the accursed
thing that leads to ruin ; and undertake, by way
of allaying popular alarm, not to heap all the joy
and blessings and wealth of Freetrade upon the
people on any account whatever. And their press
organs follow the same line, so that the campaign
is decorated with such things as these :
But Mr. Reid, as a matter of fact, does not propose any
radical alteration of the tariff. He stands for a revenue
tariff, and rightly so; but he recognises that, after the
turmoil and disturbance of the last two years, it is
essential to make haste slowly. Speaking a week or so
ago at. the Protestant Hall, he declared in effect that he
would be no party to another upheaval.—S.M. Herald
leader (13/11/’O3).
The tariff is still a thing of shreds and patches, with its
80 per cent, duties on boots and shoes, etc,, but with a
little judicious pruning it may be made a fair and reason-
able instrument for raising revenue. In his speech at
Sydney the other day Mr. Reid outlined the policy of the
Opposition. He does not propose—in the event of the
Ministry being defeated—to do more than apply the
pruning knife to excessive items. It is not intended to
throw the tariff again into the melting pot.—Launceston
(Tas,) Examiner,
Freedom of commerce should be the watchword of the
Opposition, even as is freedom of trade. The latter we
cannot enjoy to its full extent, because our financial
requirements (which may not be met by direct taxation)
demand a heavier tariff than Freeiraders like. But free-
dom of commerce, freedom of class dictation, we may
fight for, even as our forefathers have fought, and suc-
cessfully fought, for religious and political liberty.—
Edward Rraddon’s electoral address.
He, for his part, intended to go in for a reduction of
the existing tariff only.—Bruce Smith.
And so on ad nauseam.
* * . * *
The Australian Freetrade candidates thus divide
themselves into two classes. There is the class
which professes that it is going to be a traitor to
its principles under compulsion because it must
raise revenue (which statement is wholly false,
for there is no revenue difficulty in the way), and
the larger class which doesn’t allege any special
necessity, and which promises to betray its Free-
trade principles, and to help to injure its country by
practising a certain amount of Protection, out of
sheer villainy. As regards the former class—the
Braddon class—it is a very abject thing. If
Australia can’t follow Freetrade because it needs
revenue, then no country can follow Freetrade,
for every country needs revenue, and if no
country can follow Freetrade then why babble
about the foolish old impossibility ? But this
crowd of sickly apologists can’t help knowing that
its alleged revenue difficulty is pure invention
and a mere cowardly dodging of the responsi-
bility. The situation may be summarised thus :
The amount raised by all forms of taxation (Federal,
State and local) in the Commonwealth represents at pre-
sent £3 16s. 6d. per inhabitant. It is the necessity for
raising this sum which, it is claimed by Freetraders,
makes Freetrade impossible.
The amount raised by all forms of taxation (national
and local) in Great Britain is equal to £4 7s. 6d. per in-
habitant, and this necessity doesn’t make Freetrade im-
possible.
The essence of Freetrade, as practised in Britain (the
country which the Reid and Braddon party always points
to as the example to be followed) is to give no advantage
whatever to local over foreign industry. It is only neces-
sary to counterbalance all import duties which are held
to be necessary, with exactly equal excise duties, so that
the local and foreign product shall be taxed equally ; to
raise the rest of the revenue by direct taxation, as in
England where direct taxation supplies the great bulk of
the revenue ; to abolish all preferential railway rates in
favor of local produce ; to give no special postal advan-
tages to local newspapers, and to give all Government
contracts to the lowest tenderer —and we will have Free-
trade in all its essentials as Britain understands it.
* * * »
Of course, if Braddon and Reid and Bruce
Smith have degenerated into a state of cowardice,
which makes them unworthy of the name of
Englishmen, and unfit to do what Englishmen do,
then they may have some excuse—though even
then it is difficult to see where the excuse ccimes
in. By their own showing, no great courage is
required to practise Freetrade. The revenue the
country requires can be raised by Freetrade
methods—the example of Britain proves that; yet
the Braddon and Reid crowd won’t follow its
own constantly quoted example. Braddon and
Reid and Bruce Smith, and the rest, allege that,
when money is raised by Freetrade methods, it all
goes into the Treasury, whereas, if it is raised by
Protectionist methods, much of it is intercepted
by cormorant manufacturers, and they swear that
£1 levied from the people by Freetrade methods
brings as much coin to the Treasury as 255.,
or even more, raised by Protectionist devices ; yet
they refuse to adopt the cheap method. They
say, also, that under Freetrade the people are
much richer and can better afford to pay taxes,
yet, with no excuse save their own treason and
wickedness, they refuse to even attempt to adopt
the methods which will make the people so much
richer. Every politician and every paper of the
Freetrade faith says that Freetrade will make the
people wealthier, and at the same time diminish
the amount they have to pay out of their increased
wealth to support the State. And every man of
them promises that, if returned to power, he won’t
shake the country up by recklessly supplying all
these blessings. He calls his blessings an “up-
heaval,” and the saving of the country a
“melting pot.” And those of the party "who
explain this weird apostacy say they are driven
by the necessity of finding revenue to wilfully
adopt methods which will tax the people
more heavily, and at the same time make
them less able to pay the taxes ; that in order to
raise money they must adopt means that will
make the people have less money, and which, at
the same time, will make them pay more money.
The Australian Freetraders constitute the only
party which has ever appealed for support on the
ground that it was a liar and a traitor to its prin-
ciples, and that it was going to deliberately injure
the country if entrusted with office. Its election
cry may be condensed into a sentence : “Please
note what a scoundrel I am, and vote for me in
consequence!”
* * * *
The Freetrade party, wherever it lias been in
office in Australia—whether in N.S.W. or else-
where—has practised Protection more or less,
generally more. It has been a liar, and denied
the fact, in the face of its own tariff. It has been
another liar, and declared that any prosperity that
ensued was the result of Freetrade, though it knew
that Freetrade didn’t exist. Now it promises to
. be a liar again because it asks to be put into office
as a Freetrade party, and promises to give a fair
amount of Protection if it gets into office. Also,
some of it is an extra liar by adding that it is
driven to this course of action by revenue necessi-
ties, when the example of Britain proves that it
is not driven by anything or anybody save its
own evil conscience. And it has been all its life
a bumptious and scoffing combination, which pro-
fessed to look down with tremendous scorn on the
party which preached Protection, and wasn’t
ashamed to practise what it preached. It has
been very haughty on its pinnacle of cheap politi-
cal infamy, and neither it nor its pinnacle im-
proves on further acquaintance.
Why Britain Wearies of Freetrade.
When a general election is approaching in Aus-
tralia, and the unsinkable old tariff spectre floats
a little higher than usual on top of the sea of con-
troversy, a vast amount of crude bunkum re “ the
example of Britain ” is invariably poured out by
the Foreign-trade party, and eagerly swallowed
by a certain class. The general public, which
can’t accommodate many ideas in its head at
once, takes the “example of Britain ” very much
as it takes the hero and the blood-curdling villain
in the screamodrama. One of them is wholly
good and the other wholly bad, and that saves ail
trouble, and makes it unnecessary to analyse the
finer shades of character. The great mass of the
public dodges the wearisome details of history
in the same way. Its theory is th’at Britain
one day took to Freetrade all at once, and
prospered ever afterwards, while Protectionist
countries didn’t prosper. It is a simple theory and
saves much trouble; but, unfortunately, history
isn’t hacked off in square and easily understand-
able blocks in that fashion. It has a habit of
tapering off and doing things by degrees.
• • • •
About 1840, Britain was the most Protectionist
country in the world, and it was also by far the
richest. To be the richest country then, of course,
wasn’t anything like so good a thing as to be the
third or fourth richest now. There wasn’t much
gold in the world then, for the deposits of Cali-
fornia, Colorado, Klondike, Australia, Maoriland
and South Africa had not been discovered. The
world was very short of gold at that period, but
Britain had a lien on most of what there was. All
the manufactures produced in a year by the whole
world then were less than those produced in a
year by the United States now, for machinery
was still primitive, but the little British isles did
30 per cent, of what manufacturing there was to
do, and all the rest of the immense globe did the
other 70 per cent. There wasn’t very much com-
merce to do then, for steamers were few, sailing
vessels slow, and railways little more than com-
menced, but of what commerce there was to do
Britain did nearly one-fourth. Wages were low
everywhere, for with the primitive machinery of
those days a man couldn’t produce much value in
goods, but wages were higher in Britain than any-
where else. There was very little money in
savings banks, for there wasn’t much money any -
where, but of what money there was in the world s
savings banks Britain owned nearly two-thirds.
It wasn’t so very much of a world then but as
far as concerned banking, commerce, manufac-
tures, and general wealth Britain was supreme.
It was the most Protectionist country in the
world, and it pretty well owned what world there
was.
* » * *
Great Britain took to Freetrade by a slow
process of instalments extending from about 184 G
to about 1869. During that period a number of
things happened which made a rush of prosperity
all the world qver, and lent a curious glamor to
the beginnings of partial Freetrade. The greatest
gold discoveries in the world’s history were made
in California, Australia, and Maoriland, and they
poured in on Kurope such wealth as it had never
heard of before. During that same period the
railways of the world grew from 4500 miles to
125 000 miles. The steamships of the world
multiplied tenfold —in fact, it might almost
be said that the steamship began during this
period. Machinery was improved so vastly,
that a man could turn out twice or three times
as much goods in 1869 as in 1840, and with less
labor. Therefore hours were shortened, wages
were increased, and still the profits of manufac-
turers grew. And still Britain remained supreme,
though it was hardly so far ahead as in 1840.
Freetraders are accustomed to point to this
period of great awakening as an evidence of the
blessings of Freetrade, but it was a world-wide
awakening, and the Freetrade country hardly
secured its fair share of what was going. But
the contest between Freetrade and Protection
had not yet really commenced. During the period
between 1846 and 1869, or thereabouts, Great
Britain was a partially Freetrade country com-
peting with rivals mostly like itself. France
fooled with Freetrade doctrines for 18 years, till
1870, and Britain hold its own against Freetrade
France. Germany had a mere revenue tariff
till 1878, and Britain held its own against
Germany; in fact, Germany was absolutely
nothing in its Freetrade days—commercially, in-
dustrially and otherwise. The United States made
no serious atttempt at Protection until about 1865,
and the idea of the Freetrade or low-tariff United
States ever being Britain’s rival was one of the
world's jokes. Canada and Argentina were
countries with small revenue tariffs, and mere
names on the map. Italy was a revenue tariff
country, and a mere geographical expression—a
land of old ruins and organ-grinders. In 1840
Protectionist Britain, in an industrial sense,
absolutely bossed a world that was, in the main,
less Protectionist than itself. In 1869 Freetrade
Britain still bossed a world that was partly
Freetrade and partly of the humble revenue-
tariff description.
* * * *
A few years later the contest between Freetrade
and Protection really commenced, with astonish-
ing results to the Freetrade country. France
adopted Protection after 1871. Germany took to
Protection in 1878. The United States adopted
the Protective policy partially in 1865, definitely
about 1875, arid in the late 90’s went in for
the most vigorous Protection the world had ever
seen. Canada adopted Protection in 1878;
Argentina in the same year. It is only since these
events that Britain began to lose its grand old
self-confidence, and to feel the stress of com-
petition. The “made'in Germany ” bogey never
troubled it till Germany took to Protection.
United States competition was a jest and a thing
too absurd to be dreamed of till the United
States became Protectionist. What the world
knows for certain on the subject, now that the
fight between Freetrade and Protection has been
going on in real earnest for 15 years, is :
That every new State which has risen to sudden
industrial eminence (the United States, Germany,
Canada and Argentina are the principal examples)
is a high Protection country', and only' appeared on
the industrial horizon after it adopted high Protection.
That every country which is attracting a rush of immi-
grants (the United States, Canada, Argentina and Maori-
land are the most remarkable examples) is a high Protec-
tion country.
That no new Freetrade country has come to the front
as those Protectionist countries have done. Mexico never
attracted immigrants like Argentina ; nor Cape Colony
like Maoriland ; and Freetrade Scandinavia mouldered
while Protectionist Germany, with no more advantages,
rose, almost alongside it, like a new giant.
• * • •
Great Britain field its own better than the
other Freetrade States, but even it held its own
very badly. During the last half-century it has
built up the most sudden mushroom empire that
the world ever saw, barring, perhaps, that of
Alexander of Macedon. All through Victoria’s
reign it was annexing country at the rate of a
square mile every eight minutes, and it extracted
immense wealth from these conquered countries. It
annexed in South Africa the richest goldfield, and
the richest diamond field in the world. It got the
goldfields of British Guiana, and India, and the
ruby mines of Burmah. It forced most of its new
territories to keep their ports open to its trade. It
made thousands of miles of railways in its new
territories, and taxed the people heavily to subsi-
dise these railways, and the dividends thus raised
went to Britain. It annexed the banking busi-
ness of its new possessions and made great
profit thereby. It opened factories in its new
territories and worked them by local cheap labor.
A huge proportion of the gold of Australia,
Maoriland and Klondike went to Britain, and it
has just annexed another promising gold country
in West Africa. Britain started its Freetrade
experiment as the richest country in the world.
It bolstered up the experiment with the biggest
annexation boom the world ever saw. And with
it all the results are so bad that an alarmed
country thinks seriously ot taking to Protection
again.
* * * *
Mulhall’s great “Dictionary of Statistics”
shows how the Freetrade experiment progressed
in many important directions up till about 1898.
It has shown even worse results since then—so
much worse that it is only since then that the
bottom has practically fallen out of the Freetrade
superstition in Britain—but in order that the
public may conveniently verify the figures here
quoted, and test their reliability, and see that
they are in no way like the statistics of George
Reid and Pumpkin Smith and Max Hirsoh, only
those matters covered by Mulhall’s volume are
dealt with :
In 1840 Protectionist Britain din nearly 30 per cent, of
the world’s manufactures (£387,000,000" worth out -of a
world’s total of £1,314,000,000). In 1896 Freetrade
Btitain did about 16 per cent, of the world’s manufac-
tures (£876,000,000 out of a total of £5,710,000,000). It
had dropped to second place, with two other competitors
so close on its heels that it bade fair soon to assume
fourth place. (It has since got to third place, and the
whole British Empire now manufactures less than the
United States.)
In 1840 Protectionist Britain owned 60 per cent, of the
savings bank deposits of the world—the deposits in the
banksof the people(£23,4oo,oooout of £38,700,000). In 1890
it had per cent. (£154,800,000 out of a world’s toti lof
£1,458,000,000). Its people had less savings bank deposits
than those of the United States, Germany, France or
Austria. The savings bank deposits of the whole British
Empire in 1896 were only half those of the United States,
and rather less than those of Germanv (British Empire*
about £204,000,000 ; Germanv, £212,000,000; United
States, £446,000,000).
In 1840 Protectionist Britain was the richest country in
the world—so far the richest that competition was
nowhere. By 1896 it had fallen into second place, its
aggregate wealth being about £4,500,000,000 less than
that of the United States; and France and Germany
had both so nearly caught it up that it may soon be third
or fourth.
These are only a few points in the case, but they
are the most important points. The moral of
them is that Great Britain, which started Ps
Freetrade career as the richest country in the
world —not only the richest, but so far the richest
that it was worth two of its leading competitors
put together—and which has lent a fictitious
glamor to its Freeti’ade career by almost the most
stupendous land-stealing boom the world ever
saw, began to be left as soon as other countries
abandoned the Freetrade idea. For the last 15
years (since the beginning of Protectionism in
Germany), and especially for the last 13 years,
since the M‘Kinley tariff first rose on the Yankee
horizon, the world has seen a square fight between
genuine Freetrade—not the N. S.W. article—and
Protection. And already the people and , papers
of Great Britain are more than half inclined to
decide that Freetrade is a losing game.
* * * *
Of course, even if the Freetrade dogma still
held up its dishevelled head in Britain with the
old vigor, that would prove nothing in the case of
Australia. If Australia adopted Freetrade to-day
it wouldn’t do so under the favorable British con-
ditions, and it couldn’t possibly expect anything
like such good results as even Britain has shown,
bad as those results are. Australia doesn’t boss
the world in manufactures, orshipping, or wealth.
It hasn’t loaned money to all the earth, and it
hasn’t a lien on the globe that is accumulating a,t
compound interest. It can’t hope to make an arti-
ficial boom to disguise the disasters of its fiscal
policy by going out and annexing half-a dozen
countries, and appropriating the biggest gold and
diamond mines on earth. If Australia adopts
Freetrade—the real article, not the N.S.W. kind
—it has to start on the same basis as Holland,
Norway and Sweden, Turkey and Mexico, with a
fair and reasonable prospect of reaching the same
goal. They represent the results of Freetrade
upon an indebted country which doesn’t make an
artificial boom by almost the most frantic career
of conquest and annexation in history. Scandi-
navia and Mexico are respectable, plodding,
reasonably well-governed countries, but there is
certainly no great culmination or moral pinnacle
or shriek of glory about them to make Australia
desire to go out instantaneously and do likewise.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The ’Derry Party.
That very inefficient politician, Wilks of
N.S.W., enjoys the disgrace of being the first
Federal candidate to come out definitely in the
present electoral campaign on the dirty sectarian
issue. At a recent public howl in Balmain
Wilks is reported to have announced himself
as “a bigot and a firebrand, ” and declared that
he was proud of the titles. Also he claimed
political support on the ground that he was a
Protestant, and urged the people to return none
but Protestant candidates at the forthcoming
election. Yet with all his frenzied cries about
the walls of ’Derry and other dead and gone
rocks, he quite omitted to explain himself on any
important point, or to come down from the
clouds and get to particulars. Wherefore the
following questions are asked, and if Wilks will
supply definite answers to them a great many
things will be cleared up :
How does Wilks reckon that his demand that all
Catholics should be shut out of the new Australian
Parliament accords with his blather about civil and
religious liberty ?
What, exactly, does Wilks reckon will happen if some
Catholics get into the Australian Parliament? So far
there is only talk about the R.O. desire to do something
to the Education Act, but as the Australian Parliament
has nothing to do with the Education Act that excuse
doesn’t hold water.
What, exactly, does Wilks reckon will happen if none
save Protestants get into the Australian Parliament?
(This question to be answered without any loose irrele-
vances about the walls of ’Derry or Bagdad or Limerick,
or any other disconnected boulders.)
What are Wilks’ views about the nefarious partiall.v-
Freetrade policy under which Australia buys about
£3,000,000 worth annually from purely Roman Catholic
countries, instead of having the goods made here by Pro-
testant Australian workmen ?
Will Wilks vote for a specially heavy tariff on goods
made in Roman Catholic countries ?
Is Wilks prepared to vote that Roman Catholics should
be deprived of the franchise and shut out from Parlia-
ment?
Is Wilks prepared to exclude Roman Catholics from
the Civil Service ?
Is Wilks prepared to do anything that will make the
slightest difference—in other words, what legislation will
the people get if they elect Bill Wilks that they wouldn’t
get if they elected Patrick Hoolan ? (In answering this
question please leave out the walls of ’Derry and come
down to particulars.)
In other words, what is the exact nature of the lift that
Protestantism will get if Wilks and his sectarian friends
are elected ? Will they spend the public money to endow
Protestant churches and schools, or give Archbishop
Smith charge of education matters, or do anything of a
definite character, or will they merely talk about the
walls of ’Derry?
What is the exact nature of the present alleged Roman
Catholic conspiracy' ? Do the R.C.’s. propose to disfran-
chise Protestants, or shut them out of Parliament, or out
of the public service, or to make Cardinal Moran head of
the tramways, or to do anything tangible? The walls of
’Derry will please be kept out of the answer if possible.
Are Wilks and his friends aware that 'Derry isn’t in
Is the fact that he is a Protestant the only qualification
Wilks has as a politician that he puts it so conspicuously
forward? If so, what good will his Protestantism do to
the community, and how far will it help to supply work
and victuals ? The people can’t eat the walls of ’Derry.
If Wilks gets in on the walk of ’Derry ticket, what
is he going to do about finance, tariffs, old age pensions.
Federal land, income and absentee taxes, or Federalisa-
tion of the debts and railways ? How far will the walls of
’Derry help to clear up these matters?
When was the last Protestant burned in Sydney, and
did he crackle much?
These questions, though addressed specifically to
Bill Wilks, are also addressed to every other
politician who runs on the sectarian ticket. A
definite answer will be gladly accepted from any
one of the crowd—and published. Australia
wants to know the exact nature of the R.O.
danger, the exact nature of the steps which the
Great Deliverer, Bill Wilks, and his friends are
going to take to avert the danger, the exact
amount of extra Protestantism it will get if it
elects Wilks, and the exact amount of extra
Roman Catholicism it will get if it doesn’t elect
Wilks. It wants to know something tangible.
I twants decimals —not ’Derry.


About Some Labor Party Sweaters and
Anti-Unionists.
Now that another Australian election is close at
hand it is a suitable time for those Labor bodies
which have hitherto “sunk the fiscal issue” to
consider whether the hollow pretence of sinking a
thing that always rises to the surface is worth
maintaining any longer In other words, it is
time to consider whether there is any room for
Freetraders in an Australian Labor party, and
whether a Freetrader can be a sufficiently sincere
Laborist to be worth calling such. A Freetrade
Labor politician is an anomaly that requires a
great deal of explaining away He is an advocate
of trades-unionism and union rates of wages ; that
is to say, he demands that the Australian work-
man shall not work for less than, say, Is. an
hour, and shall not be undersold by other
Australians working for less. Yet he is
quite willing that he shall be undersold by
any foreigner who takes no notice of Austra-
lian union rates, and works for 6d. or 4d. an
hour. He would gladly prevent the use, sale,
or circulation of goods made by the Australian
who blacklegs hy working at, say, 9d. an hour,
and who thereby deprives the shilling-an-hour
Australian unionist of a job. Yet at the same
time he is willing to allow the free competition of
any foreigner who works at 4d. an hour, even if
that person deprives the shilling-an-hour
Australian unionist of his job. If the
shilling-an-hour Australian unionist, under
pressure of lack of employment caused
by the competition of imported goods, blacklegs
at a ninepenny wage, he is called a “scab ” and a
traitor to the cause, but there is no reprobation
for the fonrpenee-an-hour outsider who drove him
to it. The production and use of goods made
here by an Australian who works at 2d. an hour
less than the local union rate is accursed ; the use
here of goods made by anybody else who works
for (id. an hour less than the Australian union
rate is actually glorified as a blessed example of
free and enlightened policy. Sweating in Aus-
tralia is denounced by the Freetrade Laborist as
utterly disgraceful, but he is perfectly willing
to encourage the foreign sweater by admitting
as much of his goods as he can send here. He is
prepared to boycott Australian goods made by men
who work more than Australian union hours—but
not foreign goods. Cheap goods, made cheap by
sweating, are anathema if they are made and sold
in Australia, but not if they are made anywhere
else and sold in Australia. His theory is that the
Australian workman should demand good wages,
and yet that he should be able to produce goods
so cheaply that they can compete with the goods
made by equally capable foreign workers at half
or one-third the wages. He holds that the supply
of goods made by the Australian who cuts under
our union rate is disastrous, while the supply of
goods made by the foreigner who cuts much fur-
C r below our union rate is beneficial. That
is what the Freetrade Labor member demands
if he lives up to his creed ; the only
thing that prevents the iniquity of the posi-
tion becoming fully apparent is the fact that
there has never been Freetrade in any part of
Australia. The Freetrade Laborist is the advo-
cate of the foreign sweater and the foreign black-
leg. It is no use demanding that the Australian,
in any specified trade, shall not work for less
than, say, Is. an hour, when he must do it, or else
lose his billet, because the goods of the foreigner
at 6d. an hour will otherwise take the place of
those he produces. Sinking the fiscal issue is
impossible in Labor politics. The trades union
wage is the fiscal issue. There is nothing more
distinctly fiscal in all the Commonwealth.
N.S.W.’s Sore-Headed Minority.
Thebe has been much weeping, ever since the
Commonwealth Parliament first met, about how
the Australian Government is run by “Victorian
influences.” Certainly N.S.W. has grabbed a
huge and wholly extravagant allowance of the
honors that were going. It supplied the Premier
and two other Cabinet Ministers, making an alto-
gether disproportionate share of the Cabinet; the
leader and deputy leader of the Opposition ; the
Chairman of Committees, the leader of the Labor
party; the Government whip, and the Opposition
ditto; it annexed two out of the three Federal
judgeships, and most of the good civil service
billets. Queensland got the third Federal judge-
ship, and the Speakership of one House and
the Presidency of the other went to South Aus-
tralians. Victoria took hardly anything, yet the
Victorian influence was always there, and the
Victorian vote kept the Government in office.
Therefore the Sore-Headed Minority in N.S. W.
complains bitterly of some intangible wrong that
has been done to its State. The wrong, if it could
be called one, was unavoidable by reason of the
attitude of the greater part of N.S.W. and the
bulk of the N.S.W. members, so the past may
rest; the question now to be considered is whether
N.S.W. is going to deliberately continue its unfor-
tunate attitude. Australia, in the main, is Pro-
tectionist, and is likely to grow more so instead of
less. There is a Protectionist Government, a Pro-
tectionist majority, and an angry, yapping,
unpatriotic Freetrade minority consisting of men
like Ketd, Bruce Smith, Pumpkin Smith, .Toe
Cook and M'Millan who never had the
courage of their convictions while in office.
The State which supplies the largest and
most solid phalanx to the winning side (which
State is Victoria) has the largest say and the
biggest influence in shaping the country’s policy.
The State which supplies the largest contingent
to the Sore-Headed Minority (which State is
N.S.W.) has the sorest head, the loudest yap, and
the largest sense of injury. It is bound to be so
unless the fixed laws of arithmetic can be altered,
and if N.S.W. ch: oses to continue voting the
exploded Freetrade ticket (which is no use what-
ever to it, for it never attempts to establish Free-
trade even when it gets a Freetrade Government
in office) things must remain in their present con-
dition. The Protectionist majority will run the
Government. The Victorian section of that
majority, being the largest section, will mainly
decide what the Government's policy is to be.
And though N.S.W. may continue to be liberally,
even lavishly treated, as in the past, it will be
so by the grace and tolerance of Victoria. It
has -deliberately chosen that position; if it
again returns an alleged Freetrade majority it will
deliberately choose that position again. If
N.S.W. likes to return a solid Protectionist
phalanx, then it, and not Victoria, will be the
largest element in the Government following;
and it, not Victoria, will have the principal voice
in deciding the Government policy. N.S.W.
started the latest Federal movement, and did so
with a full knowledge of the political views of the
people it was asking to join it. Its own principal
clown and contortionist called them “ the five
drunkards ” to emphasise the fact that they were
not of N.S.W.’s unfortunate way of thinking, it
being a peculiarity of the drunk to imagine that
other people are intoxicated. It knew perfectly
well that an allegedly Freetrade State, which had
never dared to practise its own alleged creed, had
very little show of inducing other States to accept
that creed. So it deliberately applied for, and
naturally got, the billet of Sore-Headed Minority
to the Australian Parliament —that is almost the
only billet which is always to be had for the
asking. The question to be settled now is whether
it is deliberately going to apply for the same
billet again.
—♦
The N.S.W. Labor Party’s Attitude
The Wokker’s latest explanation of the action of
N.S.W. Labor party in supporting the Owe’See
Government’s loan madness reads as follows:—
We had argued that the N.S.W. Labor party was par
tially justified in condoning the See Government’s extra
vagance because it had, at all events, filled the mouths of
the otherwise workless with earned bread. The Bul-
letin’s reply is that we are afflicted with a strange mental
disease in condoning the doing of this by means of bor
rowed money when £3,000,000 of additional revenue
might have been raised by an increase of land-tax on
large estates and the income-tax on large incomes, by
the levying of an absentee-tax, and by making local
government bodies increase their rates and carry a larger
share of responsibilities. The Worker most assuredly
agrees with the raising of additional revenue by some of
the named methods, but at the same time would suggest
to The Bulletin that if the See Government had re-
frained from giving employment until its coffers had been
filled by these means that starvation, destitution, and crime
would long ago have claimed their own, and that our gaols,
asylums, and graveyards would ere now have been filled
to bursting point. For we have an Upper House, and the
bowels of its compassion are bound around with staves of
iron, and its soul is deposited in a steel vault along with
its mortgages and title deeds. We venture to say that if
See had delayed to provide employment until he had
passed a progressive land-tax, The Bulletin would have
damned him long ere this for a cold-blooded monster.
This is even a less convincing defence than the
previous one. If the N.S.W. Upper House
refused to pass Bills for increased income-tax,
graduated land-tax, absentee-tax, and the other
measures necessary to raise money for public
works, it could be swamped by new ap-
pointments. But the Bills were never intro-
duced, and the Upper House didn’t reject
them, and it wasn’t swamped. The Upper House
wasn’t responsible ; it never had a chance to be.
The See Government and the Labor party made
no attempt to do anything in the matter save bor-
row. Even assuming that the increased taxes
required couldn’t be imposed and collected fast
enough to meet the emergency, which isn’t certain
as no one tried to collect them, the needful money
for relief works could have been borrowed for a
year, or two years, and repaid out of the new
taxes as they came in ; but the Labor party made
no attempt to drive the sluggish See to impose
any new taxes, or to repay anything. There is
plenty of time now to impose these new taxes, and
set aside the proceeds for the repayment of theloans
—mostly short dated loans which will have to be
repaid soon—which, it is claimed, were necessi-
tated by the recent very bad drought experience ;
but the Labor party is doing just as little now to
stir the sluggish See into honesty as it has done all
along—that is to say, it is doing nothing at all.
The N.S.W. Labor party has settled down to be,
by its own choice, a party of huge borrowings, of
deficits, and of let-it-slide, and its chief mission is
now, apparently, to whitewash that rich man.
See. In practice, if not in theory, it has dropped
graduated land-tax, absentee-tax, honest finance,
and pretty nearly everything that distinguishes it
from any other party. Unless it can resurrect its
good old self it is a lost party, and might as well
be a dead party.
A Tragedy in Finance.
After all, S. Australia (according to its Audit
Commissioner) did not have a surplus. For a few
months before the end of the financial year it
looked as though it were going to have a deficit;
but then a rich ironmonger died, and, by waiting
impatiently on his executor’s doorstep on the last
day of the year, the Treasurer managed to collect
enough probate duty on account to bring out the
State’s balance about £.3000 to the good. It
was such a very little surplus; yet S. Aus-
tralia took so much trouble to get it,
and none of the other Eastern States could
get one of any size at all, that Adelaide
felt proud, and proceeded to reduce its
land and income taxes. And now the Audit
Commissioner says it was all a mistake, and that,
as the Commonwealth Government credited to
»S. Australia £4OOO which ought to have been
credited to the N. Territory, the surplus of £3OOO
was really a deficit of £lOOO ; and all the weary
waiting on the dead man’s door-step was of no
avail, and the pride was built upon a foundation
of sand, and the reduction of the taxes was
achieved by false pretences. Surely there was
never anything more like a tragedy in Australian
finance—this pitiful little struggle to show a
surplus, the proud expansion of the chest when
the surplus was shown, and then the horrid
discovery that it was all a dream—all except the
reduction of the landlord’s tax, and that is solid
reality. Of course, as a matter of hard truth,
S. Australia didn’t have a surplus in the
first place; it simply showed one by
ignoring the Northern Territory deficit of over
<£loo,ooo in spite of the fact, which it doesn’t
deny, that it is just as much responsible for the
Northern Territory deficit as for one of its own.
But perhaps it is even harder, after you have
gone to all the trouble of faking a surplus, to find
some unimaginative wretch of an Auditor-General
denying you even the satisfaction of owning the
fake.
+.
“S.M. Herald” Denounces the Empire
Builders.
S.M.H., on Nov. 9, fired by loyalty or something,
went a little too far in its antagonism to White
Australia:
The only justification for the holding of Australia by
the handful of people who occupy it is to develop its
virgin resources FOR THE TEEMING POPULATION
OF OTHER LANDS. Europe has need of its raw pro-
ducts, and there is absolutely no excuse for their being
withheld by any narrow Federal policy, which would
raise a wall round the continent and confine its benefits
to 4,000,000 of people, or to any number who, as the re-
sult of it, are likely to come here within the next cen-
tury. Any claim of so few people to pursue the Deakin
policy is nothing less than an outrage upon the rights of
humanity; a selfish prevention of the use of territory
which we have not created ; but which ive have been
simply put in possession of by the enterprise and expendi-
ture of the yreat nation from which xve have sprung.
Such a policy is but a little removed from that by which
Mr. Kruger sought to shut the world out of its rights in
South Africa.
The miserably unpatriotic Herald has now got
to the point of asserting that the Australian has
no rights on Australia ; he only holds the country
on sufferance for the benefit of the “teeming”
nigger. Yet when an individual Australian land-
lord holds 100,000 acres of good land, and keeps
it as a sheep-walk, and shuts out the “ teeming”
human race generally, and blocks settlement,
and puts up notices that trespassers will be prose-
cuted, the S.M. Herald calls any attempt, by
graduated land-tax or otherwise, to make him
admit the teeming population “a dastardly
socialistic outrage on the rights of property.”
For 4,000,000 Australians to hold for their own
use 3,000,000 square miles (say, 480 acres each)
and warn off the nigger, is a crime; but for one
Australian to hold 300,000 acres and warn off every*
body is a beautiful instances of the “rightsof pro-
perty.” And the Herald’s toothless jaws are full
of lamentation that we have no right here because
we were put in possession “by the. enterprise
of the great nation from which we are sprung.”
Aren’t we that nation ? It was the adventurous
English pioneer who came here and became an
Australian who made Australia—not the dull,
plodding English cheesemonger who stayed
behind. The Herald, like most of the organs of
silly “loyalism,” thinks that the English pioneer
who came here should lose all his claim to con-
sideration ; that, having enlarged the empire by
adding to it a new continent, he should spend the
rest of his days grovelling to the British grocer who
stayed behind, on the ground that the grocer did
the enlarging of the empire; and that the Eng-
lishmen who blazed the track —the men who
founded Australia, and who became Australians—
should believe that they owe the new country
wholly to the “enterprise” of the Englishmen
who stayed behind and did nothing but sell calico.
The Herald’s view is that when once an English-
man goes out to spread the bounds of the empire,
and build new cities for it, and explore new lands
for it, he becomes accursed ; he loses all claim to
consideration ; and he is only fit to be lectured on
his base ingratitude to the Englishman who
never moved out of Cockneydom. The Empire-
builder is the only man, in the Herald’s idea,
who should have no voice in the destinies of the
empire. No paper has more grossly and coarsely
insulted the Englishmen who made the empire—
the man who carried its blessed Flag all over this
continent—than the S.M. Herald, and the
curious thing is that the gummy old organ hasn’t
the least idea of what it is doing.
»
The Fall of Cold Tea and Co.
Premier Skddon’s Licensing Bill has been thrown
out by Maoriland House of Reps.—which event
is one of Skddon’s biggest triumphs up to date.
He has been ostensibly defeated, but he has
rubbed the ear of Cold Tea in the gutter, and
filled its eye with mud, and dabbed its head into
the ash-barrel of humiliation. Hitherto Prohi-
bition has been something of a farce in Maoriland.
When it was voted in any district the hotels in
that district were closed, but any man who could
afford to buy in quantities could get his liquor
sent to him from the nearest wine-merchant, and
keep it in his own house, and drink himself blind
as often as he wanted to. The Prohibition vote,
in fact, was made up of three classes of voters :
(1) Those who didn’t drink.
(2) Those who voted for Prohibition because it was the
correct form of snuffle and a pood advertisement, but
who laid in their own whisky and drank as usual.
(3) Those who voted for Prohibition for snufflesome or
other reasons, and laid in their cwn whisky, and drank a
great deal more, privately, in the house, than they had
dor.o when they were in the habit of drinking publicly in
hotels.
The Prohibition party for years stormed Seddon
with demands for more drastic legislation, and
when Seddon had counted up the forces in the
House he found that he must do something.
Then he did a fiendish act. He introduced a Bill
providing that there should be real Prohibition in
Prohibition districts, that no liquor should enter
those districts, and that any person having liquor
in his house should be heavily punished. And
the Cold Tea party had to vote against it because
it would have alienated the Drinking Prohibi-
tionist, and the party couldn’t afford to lose the
Drinking Prohibitionist’s support. Now Seddon
laughs wildly in the background, and says:
“Here is my Bill providing iov real Prohibition
thrown out by the Prohibition vote in the
House! ” It is a triumph, but it may cost
Seddon dearly. The Cold Tea party will never
forgive him for putting it so artistically in the
hole.
♦
Wanted—Better Paid Australian
Politicians.
There is a lamentable shortage of candidates in
many places for the coming Australian election.
Every party organisation is tearing its hair in the
struggle to find men to put up who seem at all
decently qualified to uphold the party’s views.
And in many places, because the men that the party
wants won’t come forward, it is being forced to
put up men whom it doesn’t want—tenth-rate
men who won’t supply any brains to the cause,
and whose only qualification is that they agree
to trust to the party leaders for the
brains, and to vote as the party leaders
bid them. This is only the second elec-
tion under the Australian constitution, and
already the miserable inadequacy of the
wage paid to members begins to be manifest.
Even after one Parliament the big men are
dropping out, on the ground that they can’t afford
to remain in. Australia is a very commodious-
place, and the majority of members have to go a
long way to the scene of action, and when a mem-
ber pays his extra living expenses there, the
amount available out of his salary of £4OO a year
amount available to maintain the home he
left behind him —is seldom much over £3 a week.
Therefore Australia is coming down to the posi-
tion that it must choose its candidates almost
exclusively among these classes :
Young men who were born rich —a small and very un-
desirable class, with, as a rule, very little knowledge of
politics and a comfortable belief that, because it is well
off, the world is a very good world and doesn’t require
improvement.
Ancient tired-out wrecks who have made their fortunes,,
and are willing to give the fag-end of their lives to politics.
These, as a rule, know very little of politics, and are too-
old to learn. Also they feel it isn’t worth while repairing
a world which they are to leave so shortly.
Men who are busy making their fortunes, but who are
willing to drop in for a minute or two now and then, and
vote for or against something, without having time to-
inquire what it is, and who will then rush back to their
bales and their ledgers.
Incapables who are glad of a job which srives them evem
£3 a week over and above working expenses, because
they can’t earn so much as that at any other occupation.
Four classes, and it is difficult to say whiqlv-is the
most undesirable. Australia wants good profes-
sional politicians ; like every other country it
must choose between the professional politician
and .the amateur politician, and the' latter
is just as complete a failure as the amateur
carpenter, or the amateur Judge, or the ama-
teur watchmaker. Unless it pays for good-
professional politicians it will get bad profes-
sional politicians. And just because Australian
politics involve longer travelling distances,
greater expense, more complete neglect (by
reason of the distances) of any business that is
left behind, the Australian Parliament may get
even worse professional politicians in the end
than the State Legislatures—unless it pays for
better ones. The United States, which is
situated very much as Australia is, recognises
this, and pays its Federal legislators £lOOO a
year, also, travelling allowances and allowance for
secretary and stationery. Australia will yet have
to do the same, and it can’t make the cha’ ge too
soon. Anyone who compares the calibre of the men.
who are dropping out of Australian politics
because they can’t afford to remain in, or who
threaten to drop out for the same reason, with
the calibre of the new men who are coming to tho
front, may see the beginning of a tendency
towards a cheap Australian Parliament—cheap
and nasty.
+
The excitable and ill-tempered Judge Docker
let himself loose again at Orange (N.S.W.) re-
cently, and thus addressed an acquitted prisoner :
You are discharged. The jury say you are not guilty,
but how they arrived at that decision I cannoc under-
stand. I don’t know how the jurymen would like to go
into the witness box and then be told that their evidence
was not believed.
The Judge thus, by implication, laid down these
three propositions :—:
(1) That it is a gross insult if the jury doesn't believe
the witnesses against the prisoner, no matter how weak
they may be.
(2) That it doesn’t matter at all if the jury insults the
witnesses for the defence by not believing them.
(3) That the jury should convict every prisoner lest the
witnesses who testified against him feel insulted.
(4) That a Judge may use insulting language to a free
citizen if he feels that way
Isn’t N.S.W. getting just a little tired of its
Docker ? It certainly ought to be.
A letter from “J.J.”:—
lie your leader on the N.S.W. Labor party. I have
been a battler for the party since ’9l, and I am going-to
stick to it on the ground that it is, still streets ahead of
either the See or the Carrutiiers crowd. Still, I am com-
pelled to agree with all you say about the party. I know
almost every one of the 25 members personally, and I can
only find three or four real men amongst them ; but even
that is a better average than either of the other parties
can show. When I say men, my standard is high. I
mean men at once brainy, courageous and honest. I
place them in this order- Holman, Griffith, Dacey, afld
Donald Macdonell. None of these four is popular with
the ruck of the party. They are aggressive, and the
cringers call them ambitious ; they dare to talk si might,
and they call them reckless ; they won’t smo. dge or
cringe, so the wasters call them tactless. But these are
the men that we, outside, appreciate, and Griffith will
get a vote for the Senate that will astonish a lot of
people. M’Gowan is a straight, good man, too, but
slow-witted and cautious almost to cowardice. So
much does he dread a change that he nearly
wrecked the Party by the tenacity with which he
stuck to George Reid. Edden has a bluff, effective stylo
of speaking, but he has never read a book in his life, and
thinks coal-mining the only thing worth legislal ing about.
For all his bounce he lacks real courage, and will never
take the unpopular side. Cann, as an officer of the
House, is, of course, not in the fighting line. Neilsen,
Hollis, Hugh Macdonald and Scobie are good second-
grade men, straight but narrow. As for the rest—well,
they are like the ruck of all political parties—decenr,
well-meaning fellows, to whom a culvert is more than a
Constitution, and who can see nothing else in public life
as important as Bill’s dirt-money. I admit the party is
at a low intellectual ebb just now, but there is lots of
good material outside, and I am not going to give up
hope yet a bit, and I hope The Bulletin won’t either.
♦ ' ‘
The Queensland local-governing person, who has.
for years past regarded the State as an institution
divinely appointed to spare him from taxing
himself, is beginning to think unkindly of
Kidston, the new Treasurer. “ We’re going
to try to be honest, and so must you be,”
Kidston says in effect; “so pay up.” The
amount of overdue interest and redemption is
about £190,000; and the Treasury is calling for
it in a tone that the local tax-dodger
doesn’t like. To get round Kidston some
of the local bodies are asking now
for permission to issue debentures on
their own account. Queensland has hitherto
followed the practice of allowing municipal bodies
to borrow only from the State; and, with an
honest Treasurer owning a backbone, this is
an excellent idea, because the Treasurer can
then insist upon the loan being paid in half-yeai ly
instalments, instead of allowing the local property
owner to pass it on to another generation, to he
paid when the thing that was bought with the
money has been worn-out. Fortunately, Kidston
sees through this dodge, and seems disposed to
give it no encouragement; and that is the riiht
attitude, for it would be idle to slam the
door against wild State borrowing and open
it to wild local borrowing. Whether, however,
it ought not to be made some sort of an
offence for a local-governing body, once it has
borrowed from the State, to ask for suspension of
interest and sinking fund payments, is another
matter. Even the man who, like Kidston, is
game to say “No” (he said “No” witli great
emphasis to a Southport deputation a few days
ago), may suffer for it; and that shouldn’t be—it
is the people who try to induce the Minister to
break a contract and thus rob the State, who
ought to have something heavy fall upon them.
♦
Apropos A.M.P. general manager Teece’s remark
that, though the State pub. at Gwalia (W. A.) was
a success, still
If the Government took control of the liquor traffic in
a city like Perth, or in big places like Sydney or Mel-
bourne, political influence would immediately be exer-
cised, and Government supporters would, perhaps, make it
a condition of their support that the Government should
purchase liquor from some of their clients —
why is it always assumed that the politician who
is at the head of a Government department must
be a rogue ? The A.M.P. has 33 directors in Aus-
tralasia, and more than half of them (17, to be
exact) are politicians. Several of them have been
Premiers, still more of them have been Cabinet
Ministers. How is it that they don’t ruin the
A.M.P. ? The Bank of New South Wales has
six directors, and four of them are politicians ;
the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney has five
directors, and four of them are in Parlia-
ment ; the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. has
seven directors, four of them in politics; and so
on through the long list of successful Australian
concerns. Nobody suggests that these private
enterprises must fail because the politicians
who run them are not honest enough to run
straight; but as soon as it is suggested that
the same politicians should manage the same and
other things as public enterprises, the discovery
is made that they are a gang of scoundrels who
will ruin the business.
♦
Governor-General Tennyson, who leaves Aus-
tralia soon, makes the sad mistake of mixing up
with his valedictory speeches a good deal of
political advice. One daily paper, the other day,-
seriously discussed Tennyson’s “platform,” as
though he were Prime Minister or leader of the
■Opposition, instead of the rubber-stamp hired to
sign things when told to, and to look pleasant in
public as often as possible. The “platform” is
in some respects good, in others, otherwise—
economy, consolidation of debts, water conserva-
tion, closer agricultural settlement, industrial
arbitration, etc. But the point is not whether
Tennyson is a good or a bad politician, but that
he has no right to be a politician at all. His
position as Governor forbids him getting on the
political stump. If he will resign his governor-
ship, get an elector’s right and come out for the
Legislature, The Bulletin will be prepared to
■consider Tennyson’s candidature on its merits
and sink any natural prejudice against lords.
But whilst he is Governor, Tennyson’s one duty
in regard to politics is to keep silent.


“ With total Assets standing at £78,089,283, The Mutual Life Insurance Company
of New York occupies the premier place as the largest and strongest Life Office in the world.”
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE-__
COMPANY OF NEW YORK.
Established 1843.
RICHARD A. McCURDY.
President.
From its Organisation in 1843 to 31st December, 1902,
It has paid to living'members ... ... .. £67,496,649
To beneficiaries of deceased members .. ... „ .. .„ .. 55,726,749
Total paid to members, living and dead ... ... .. .. £123,223,398
Invested for present members .. .. 78,039,284
Total paid to and invested for its members £201,312,682
Bonuses paid to policy-holders amount to .. .. . £22,005,481
Contingent Guarantee Fund and Divisible Surplus 13,991,627
Total Profits to Members £35,997,108
The Payments made by The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York to its Policy-holders are
far in excess of those of any other company.
Copy of Ann al Report and particulars of Policies to meet every requirement, whether for LIFE,
ENDOWMENT, INVESTMENT, or ANNUITY, may be obtained on application. Power to issue binding
policies on select lives and pay Claims immediately upon receipt of proofs at the
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA-
MUTUAL LIFE BUILDING, Martin Place and Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager and Attorney.
S.A. National Ass intends making anothe
attempt to get its president (Moulden) into Parlia-
ment. He is to be nominated for the Council
vacancy caused by Labor member Bob Guthrie’s
Federal candidature. Moulden is one of the
oftenest defeated men in the State, and if he is
successful it will prove to what a low ebb
Liberalism has reached in Adelaide Senator
John Downer promised to run for the first Council
district vacant, but either the National Ass has
bucked him off or he does not desire to be
mounted on that obscene animal.
By blurting out the fact of his approaching
resignation a couple of months before it was
timed to come off, Yic. Premier Irvine cruelly
upset the calculations of his colleagues, Shiels and
Bent. Shiels is the most unpopular man in Vic.
Assembly, but he reckoned on the reversion of the
Premiership if Irvine had kept his secret until the
last moment, when Parliament wound up for the
elections. As it was, Ministerialists lost no time
in proclaiming that they wouldn’t follow the
political Sick Man at any price. The egregious
Bent is the only other man in the Irvine crowd
who has egotism enough to imagine that he is
qualified for command of a Government, and Fat
Thomas as Premier would be the most stupendous
joke this continent has struck for a long while.
The Comte de Rossi, who died last week
in Sydney, at the age of 81, was an erratic French
nobleman with a quaint capacity for self-adver-
tfsement and a constant desire to do battle with
somebody or anybody over a piece of fluff or some
other trifle. He became a public character a
number of years ago, when he and the
Bishop of Goulburn skirmished for years
in the law courts over some matter con-
nected with a tablet in the Cathedral. The
late Count stood a siege in the holy edifice for
some days, and when the holy edifice was opened
with an axe or some such carnal weapon instead
of with prayer, and the Count was carried out and
laid on the pavement, the legend goes that he
refused to rise till the photographer had come and
taken his portrait as he lay encumbering the
highway. Then he went to Sydney to interview
the papers, and explain how profoundly calm he
was while defending the cathedral, and how there
were no unmanly fears under his waistcoat while
the bishop’s minions raged outside.
From Sydney Telegraph, Nov. 13 :
Now that the Wentworth selection has been made,
interest in Sydney will be centred upon Lang. The posi-
tion there has undergone some changes during the past
two years. In accordance with a resolution reported
some days ago, a meeting was held at Newtown on
Wednesday night to determine which of the Freetraders
should contest the seat. This meeting, which was held
in private, was attended, it is understood, by delegates
from the various electorate branches of the Australian
Protestant Defence League. Five names were submitted
—Messrs. Johnson, Trevarthen, Cullam, Salomon, and
Martin. Ballots were held until the number was reduced
to two, Messrs. Johnson and Cullam receiving an equal
number of votes. The meeting being unable to arrive at
a final selection, it is stated that the matter was referred
to the council of the Protestant Defence Association.
There doesn’t seem to be much real difference,
according to this, between the George Reid party
and the Dill Macky party at the elections, since
“The Protestant Defence Association.” that
noisome gang of sectarian stinkpotters, has the
final say as to the choice of the Freetrade candi-
date. It is, after all, appropriate that the party
of foreign trade and foreign borrowing should also
favor bringing foreign religious rows into Aus-
tralian politics.
The Bulletin
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny ” for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Rosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charts. F „ f„ Hher partie „i ars , addrm-
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFFICE-
-70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
NARANDERA
or YOUNG.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Sweet Nell.”
Her Majesty’s “A Country Girl."
Lyceum “ The Favorite."
Criterion “A Bad Character."
Palace “ The Prodigal Parson."
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Town Hall FUk Jubilee Singers (Saturdays).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty’s “ The Eternal City."
Theatre Royal “ The Great Millionaire.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
-
Nellie Stewart had a cordial reception at
the revival of “ Sweet Nell,” on Saturday last, at
Sydney Royal—this despite the fact that the piece
has been very hard-worked during the last year
or so. It was intended to stage “Peg Woffing-
ton,” but time did not permit, as the co. breaks
up with the close of this week. “Sweet Nell”
has, however, just about this one last run left in it,
and so far it has played to good houses. It is prac-
tically identical, as regards cast, with the first pro-
duction in Sydney, theonly important change being
that Harry Hill plays Chief Justice Jeffries —in a
somewhat quieter key than Albert Gran favored.
Miss Edith Stewart, as Lady Olivia Vernon,
is also a new and pleasing minor feature. For
the rest it is the same thoroughly artistic Har-
court Beatty as King Charles, and the same
brilliant-in-patches Nellie Stewart as “Sweet
Nell.” Miss Stewart gives a popular, if not alto-
gether consistent reading to her character. Her
Nell is sometimes orange girl and sometimes
grand Duchess, and doesn’t make any effort to
grow from one to another ; but she is always an
attractive figure, and is an even more wonderfully-
dressed figure than in previous productions.
Friday will be the last night of “Sweet Nell.”
* * * *
What will happen then at the Sydney
Royal was unknown when The Bulletin went to
press. Mr. Musgrove’s comic opera co. will have
reached the Commonwealth before Saturday, and
with it a new opera, “The Serenade.” But a
lawsuit—Slapoffski v. Musgrove—will have also
readied a hearing, and several members of the co.
will probably be in Melbourne giving evidence on
Friday. If so, the law will have to hustle con-
siderably out of its usual stride to allow of these
people singing in Sydney on Saturday ; the case
will have to go through very rapidly, and the
mummers will have to put up a record sprint to
Spencer-street station afterwards. But possibly,
when the parties to the law-suit gather together,
“Slap.” will mount a chair, disarrange his hair,
and waving a walking-stick, recall old pleasing
memories, and everybody will dissolve into tears
and music, and there will be no more thought of
damages.
** * *
The domain of comic opera is a pleasant
land where everything is in a delightful state of
topsy-turveydom—where the moon is always new
or full; where the crops are green and growing, or
golden and ready to be reaped ; and where every-
one can sing or dance ; and everyone is young.
When age is introduced it is there to be laughed at,
good-naturedly, as a has-been that cannot teach the
prima donna or the leading lover, singing through
the oardboard streets at noonday, anything worth
learning. A domain where none asks the raison
d'etre of anything, for there isn’t any, and where
few of the incidents dovetail, and where people
and things that have nothing to do with the case
drift in and out, and no cold-nosed critic rises to
ask plaintively, “ What about the classic unities?”
Tliese aberrations passed over writer’s mind
qn a second look at the “ Country Girl ”
(Her Majesty’s, Sydney). The Rajah of Bhong
interlude lias all the materials for a tragedy, but
the consequences don’t tradge in the least—they
only end in laughter. Claude Bantook, as the
Rajah, (n a white European suit and a turban,
with an emerald big as a turkey egg blazing in
front, sings his comic songs in a way for
which we are grateful—every word is heard,
Miss Ghiloni, as his Indian betrothed wife,
ha,s never h,ad a better show than as the Princess
Mehelena,h. She glows in an orange robe,
swathed, not fitted , round her voluptuous form,
ajidj with her ropes of turquoises and her forehead
gem, she. looks the. Jewel of Asia from the ground
up, and her singing of “Under the Deodar,”
makes us long to sell our gum-tree at a great re-
duction and buy a deodar with the proceeds.
Also, Miss Rose Musgroye’s “ Chook-Chook ”
duet vyith Lauri almost drives writer to go
a l -chicken farming ; agid Florence Young’s song,
“Cop,” and Thorlev's solo, “A Sailor’s Life,”
are, nightly received with especial joy.
&* * *
Very soon after these few rerparks reach
the. eyes of an expectant public, Miss Fitzmaurice
Gill, of Sydney Palace, will cease to be an Ameri-
can widow, and the Bank of England will have to
get out of its troubles as best it can without her.
It isn’t much of a piece that she has been playing,
ye.t the widow and the Sherlock Holmes, parts
gave Miss Gill and Charles Blake considerable
opportunities, and throughout their audiences have
appreciated their painstaking work. “ The Pro,-
digal Parsop,” alleged to be something not hitherto
uncorked in Australia, will be served up on
Saturday of this week.
** * *
Charles Holloway’s revival of “Harbor
Lights,” at Sydney Criterion, compares favorably
with the best of the Holloway season. It is
mounted elaborately ; part of the scenery was first
used by J. C. Williamson when he produced the
piece five years ago, and Ricketts has added to it
inhis best style. Aboard the Britannic, in the
third act, there is sword drill; this is the most
striking tableau of all, though the concluding
lighthouse scene is unusually effective and well-
managed. Beatrice Holloway is the girl whose
eyes are the harbor lights. She still talks of
“Meeses Smeeth’s beaby,” with whom she has
left the tobacco, but otherwise hers is more
than a creditable performance. Though for
most of the time it is love-making, there
are dramatic moments—when she finds that
she has been entrapped and compromised by the
weak squire, for instance; and on these occasions
the girlish actress shows more power than she
has done in anything hitherto. Vivian Edwards
opens the lieutenant-lover’s lines in a thunderous
voice ; but the gale moderates presently, and the
strain is eased. Charles Holloway makes the com-
paratively small part of the distracted Mark
Helstone conspicuous ; it is a fine little character
study. J. P. O’Neill rather overdoes Tom Dos-
siter, as usual. Miss Hellmrieh, excellent in
the subdued scenes, fails only as the cast-off Lena
Nelson during the dramatic encounter with Mor-
land. Frank Hawthorne makes a first appearance
with the co. in the last-named part, and helps
Godfrey Cass in the villainy; and Hesford,
Coughlan, King, and the others of the stock co.,
do work of good average quality. “A Bad
Character ” follows on Saturday.
*# * *
The end of the Sydney triumphs of Mar-
zella and her cockatoos, doves, ravens and eagles
is being hinted at, and if Harry Rickards weren’t
so modest a manager he would by now be advising
people to hurry up and not miss one of the
prettiest and most unique shows he has ever
introduced. The next attraction, to be added to
all the existing ones on Saturday, will be Miss
Jennie Grey, whose work at the London halls
struck manager Rickards, the first week after he
landed in London, as one of the things he and the
Tivoli wanted.
** * #
“The Favorite” was revived at Sydney
Lyceum last Saturday with much elaborate
scenery, great crowds of supers., mobs of horses,
various weird “mechanical effects,” and all the
other features of Lyceum melodrama. As a play,
“ The Favorite ” has a good deal more coherency
and probability than some of the modern yellow
dramas ; it is not too obviously written around a
horserace or a railway accident, or a great fire
scene. Also it is thorough—in the melodramatio
sense. The characters are sawn off square from
the great aggregate mass of black villainy
or pure virtue. There are no lights and
shades, no between colors. The Yes-No attitude
on any point of ethics is barred. No personage
is allowed to trim ; he or she must start bad and
remain bad (if not become worse); or begin in the
paths of virtue and follow them steadily until the
sprouting angelic wings make knobs on the shoul-
ders. “The Favorite” has for its complete
villain Dr. York, whose crimes range from wallop-
ing the virtuous kid of the piece and attempting
to drown the minor heroine in a drainage cistern,
up to attempting to stiffen a horse. Its com-
pletely virtuous man is even more pronounced in
goodness than the wicked man in crime, for
he is a horse-trainer and yet honest! A
company, capable as to its leaders and numerous
as to its “supers,” presents “ The Favorite,” and
does it all the justice it deserves. Miss Eugenie
Duggan, favored this time with a virtuous part,
manages to divest herself of all the traces of past
stage-wickedness except the fine clothes. There
is, somehow, a suggestion of something wrong in
a virtuous lady in melodrama wearing gorgeous
raiment. Willard presents the villain very power-
fully, and Robert Inman is an honest horse-trainer
of great merit. Miss Gorrick and Mr. Dunbar
are others of a big caste that show out a little
from the ruck in the run home. “The Favorite”
will be continued next week.
“The Eternal City,” at Her Majesty’s
(Melb,), appeals to the artless disciples of Hall
Caine and Marie Corelli. It doesn’t threaten to
be as awfully successful as “Sign of the Cross,” but
ft might have rivalled that earlier Roman drama
in public estimation if Wilson Barrett had been
asked to dramatise Caine’s novel. Barrett could
have made a better job of it in all respects, and
to say this is to tell the whole truth about the
literary demerits of “The Eternal City.” The
author goes floundering out of his depth whilst
persisting in a most solemn pretence of
being a champion swimmer. His puppets
have a Family Herald unnaturalness, and
JOHN BEDE D ALLEY— the son of a great
Australian —now standing as the National
candidate for Wentworth (N.S.W.).
Photo, by The Talma Studios, Sydney.
they talk the baldest journalese at moments
which are meant to be thrilling. The interview
between the Pope and his long-lost offspring is
surpassingly twaddlesome, yet not weaker than
the lines in which his Holiness had previously dis-
closed his matrimonial secret to a dreary friar in
the Vatican garden. One notices many points of
absurdity throughout the drama. These papal
points are especially obvious because the action is
not rapid what time the holy father presides over
the scene. In a general way this is at least an
eventful, noisy drama, and the fact that an
invisible populace overthrows the local Govern-
ment should encourage the Melbourne proletariat
to go and do likewise.
* * * *
Nothing remarkable has happened to
“ The Great Millionaire,” at Melbourne Royal,
except the substitution of a tall brown-bearded
King Edward for the fragile little monarch who
wore the tin crown of Great Britain for the first
week or two. The new Edward is about eight
inches too tall and 20 years too young for the charac-
ter, but his gentlemanly Australian appearance,
combined with the inspiring strains of the National
Anthem, make a deep impression on all who can ap-
preciate a joke. The previous King, although too
funny for words, was a treasonable caricature of the
original E.R., whereas the present one provokes
hearty shrieks of laughter. Queen Alexandra
remains the same cheerful young person as before,
rather wanting in regal dignity, but eminently
calculated to make a large hole in the
Guildhall banquet—after the curtain falls.
Unfortunately the audience misses the pleasure
of seeing their majesties feed. There are,
however, two bona-fide refreshment scenes—firstly
when the stone-broke lordling sends out into the
street for a dozen guests, and bids them “scoff”
the remnants of his fortune, and, secondly, when
Walter Baker gives a supper to celebrate his
capture of the wheat market. Baker’s arrogant
heartlessness at this time of public distress is
getting him into bad odor with his old admirers.
They had not thought him a Baker who would
wilfully raise the price of the quartern loaf to five
shillings.
* #
One Cirnoc, a vigorous young fellow,
describing himself as Master of Locks and
King of Handcuffs, is the latest importation
at Rickards’ Opera House. Handcuffs, leg-
irons and other instruments of the law are
applied to Cirnoc, and Cirnoc demonstrates the
foolishness of such restrictive measures as regards
a man who can go behind a curtain and free
himself from his shackles in a mysterious way.
The trick is surprising in its results, but the
periods of Cirnoc’s seclusions are frequent and
dull. Also the number of criminals interested in
handcuffs and leg-irons is comparatively small,
and none of them can reasonably expect the
police to give them the opportunities that Cirnoc
enjoys.
* sf? * *
Melbourne’s appetite for circus has lost
its edge since Cup week, so the Fitzgerald Bros,
talk of taking the full strength of their co.,
including the elephant, away on another long tour.
Saturday is the last night of the slack-wire lady
who sheds her outer garments for the gratification
of the bald-headed men in the reserved seats.
Also the fluent citizen with the brawny arms will
cease from lifting the local carthorse on the same
date. The smellful leopard is about to change its
spot, and the place where the lion roars will be
wrapped in silence by Monday next. The Prin-
cess’s and the Bijou are dead to the world just at
present. The Circus is cutting its season short.
Melbourne must be suffering a relapse into inipe-
cuniosity.
* * * *
Melbourne Exhibition trustees last week
imported another big crocodile from Queensland.
Up to now the climate at the Exhibition has
always proved fatal to monster croc’s. ; they have
died of asthma or cold on the liver, and their
decease has been tedious and rather malodorous.
A crocodile in a strange land dies by inches, and
each inch smells somewhat.
# * * *
Adelaide Tivoli has had a week of a weird
extravaganza, “Ha ! Ha! ! Ha !!!” by Pat Finn-
Local amateurs worked hard at it, but puns in
every line rather weary the modern taste, and it is
a bad sign when the audience is smaller at the end
of the evening than at the beginning. Still, it ran
its week. A short season of Rickards is immi-
nent, with Marzella and her birds as the star
attraction. At the Royal a mesmerist opened
for the holiday-evening only, and, putting various
youths into an apparently genuine slumber, made
them bleed and otherwise suffer in a manner
which was accepted as highly humorous. At
present an American bioscope holds the stage, and
flickers surprisiugly little. Also, the fiery, un-
tamed dramatic amateur has emerged as is his
custom at slack seasons —and at various suburban
halls has attacked various plays, from “Merchant
of Venice” downwards.
vjj
Dan Barry has had a whole fortnight of
Hobart Royal at show time, just by a fluke.
Months ago, when small-pox was ravaging every-
thing in Flyspeck, Geacn told Dan that he had
engaged the house on the Derwent banks for a
couple of weeks, but couldn’t go there because of
the difficulty of getting away again. Barry said
he’d take the risk of small-pox. Time went on,
and Dan danced when he heard that Flyspeck
was wiped clean, and he’d have the Hobart Royal
all to himself then. Half Tasmania was in
Hobart for the show. Barry opened with “A
Gilded Sin ” and closed with “The Kelly Gang,”
and the middle pieces moved Wapping by their
very titles. Show night, manager Grant declared
he had spurned 400 people who asked standing-
room, and a lot who offered double price to be
allowed to hang on to a rafter. But Daniel’s
judgment at the end was against Hobart, with
costs, which weren’t paid.
#* # *
“E.”: “Why this complaint about the
lack of Australian dramatists ? I know of at least
one Melbourne dramatist whose works are
published by himself and sold at about 9d. a
dozen to dealers—a price that brings them within
the reach of all. The author’s pen-name is
“Fergenham.” Bought one of his dramas for a
penny and found it most interesting. Title 4 4 The
Hermit’s Daughter,” a play in 14 scenes, the
characters ranging from “Kipple, a sheep station
owner ” (with an overseer, two boundary riders,
and other Australian supporters) down to the
more mystic character of “The Prince of Poverty.”
The drama starts in the sitting-room of a rich
citizen’s home, where some young ladies and a
young man, Deatrus, converse together :
Eda : Do you know, Deatrus, that we have only 20
minutes to meet that train ?
Deatrus : In 20 minutes all the world can change—
Rose : Their boots.
Deatrus : No ; not their boots, for some haven’t a
second pair to put on.
Rose : But even they can change their boots. Put
the right foot boot on the left foot, and the boot that’s
left on the right.
Deatrus : But what of them that have no boots at all ?
Then the Prince of Poverty invades the rich man’s
domicile—“dressed in golden and silver attire
and bearing in one hand two gleaming swords.”
No Australian dramatists !
THE ETERNAL CITY.
Ere Pius the Twelfth was enrolled as a priest
He suffered from weaknesses human ;
He married a wife, and the race was increas’t
By the aid of that willing young woman.
But they parted meanwhile, and to holier vows
He became a devoted subscriber
When he heard that the corpse of his sorrowful spouse
Had been brought to the morgue from the Tiber.
The years rolled along, and Pope Pius the Twelfth,
Looking thin on his Vatican tucker,
B,eheld a young man who had sought him, by stealth,
With a plea for protection and succour.
The stranger cried “ Father, I’m Julius Knight 1 ”
Then the Pope, much astonished to hear it,
Said—“ Come to my arms—let me cuddle you tight—
I’m your Father in flesh as in spirit.”
Thus two single fathers are merged into one,
But Julius, though he’s a bold ’un,
Could hardly presume, as a dutiful son,
To “ Dad ” the pontifical old ’un.
o,n Saint-days his parent he meekly address’t
As “ Pope,” which was fitting and proper,
And sometimes his filial love was express’t,
By the quaint exclamation of “ Popper.”


Insurance World, Ist. August, 1903, writes of
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s latest
report:—“ All the essentials which go to build up
absolute prosperity, this leading mutual office enjoyed in
its business during 1902."*
* * » •
The Oathoart Proprietary G.M. Co. (Victoria)
has lately placed an order with the Austral Otis Company
of South Melbourne, for a complete electric lighting and
power plant, including also boilers, feed pump, surface
condenser and air pump. The new plant will furnish
sufficient electricity for motors to drive puddlers, the
winding engine and a three throw pump. The latter
being capable of lifting 26,000 gallons of water per hour
against a total head of 216 feet. The generating set will
consist of a vertical enclosed compound engine of 160
8.H.P., coupled direct to a Ganz three phase generator of
110 killowatts output. The electrical portion of the plant
will be carried out in the latest three phase system of
Ganz and Co., with 600 volts working pressure and a
frequency of 60 periods. We believe this is the first
instance in Victoria of an individual mine adopting
electricity as a motive power for pumping, hoisting and
puddling machinery, and no doubt when the plant is in
operation, which it will be in about six months’ time, a
number of other companies will follow the example of
the Oathcart Company.
* * * *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
Hi * * £
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
• * * •
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£620,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
• •’ * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-sfc., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * * *
H. Brandon Skertobly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * * »
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * •
E. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
169 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
* * * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
Stated that Mitchell’s Creek Freehold (N.S.W.)
—for sonoe years the property of late millionaire Dick,
who passed it on at his death to his former manager at a
comparatively low figure—is now under offer to Bull-
Cohen for £60,000.
V T/l/£y
SUN
HIGHEST
QUALITY
The Bulletin
BRAND
SOLO
EVERYWHERE.
The Bulletin
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES ___
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.— Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Kails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING,
gar Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E.. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeelian (Tasmania).
By Special Appointment to His Majesty the King.
The Wild Cat Column.
Thb Australian Metropolitan Life Assur-
ance Cos., Ltd. (formerly of Brisbane, but with its head
office now in Sydney):— ,
Expenses Total Added
Total and Out- to
Aug.. Income. Claims. Dividends, goings. Funds.
1896
1897 £4,540 £133 £2,754 £2,887 1653
1898 .. 6,393 751 4,423 5,174 1219
1899 . 7,252 992 5,102 6,094 1158
1900 9,386 1277 5,934 7,211 2175
1901 .. 11,023 1483 6,551 8,034 2989
Taken from
Funds.
1902 .. 12,657 3775 13,633 17,408 4751
Added to
Funds.
1903 .. 17,285 2380 13,879 16,259 976
Total Accumulated Funds £5669
Office Property written up (1898) . .£10,095
it w again written up (1901).. 6,500
- • - 15,595
£21,264
Office Property written down (1902) 6,500
Alleged present amount of Assurance Fund .. £15,764
No other existing Australian life assurance concern shows
such a remarkable record as this. The co., having paid
itself regular 10 per cent, dividends for some years, had
then an actuarial valuation made of its liabilities. Taking
in the Brisbane freehold at the figure at which it had so
far stood in the balance-sheet, a deficit of £3869 would
have been disclosed; but by writing up the freehold
£10,095, and by putting it in the balance sheet as an asset
for £24,000 instead of for £13,905, as previously, a paper
surplus of 16226 was created. A year or two later, by the
same charmingly simple process, £5500 more was added to
the company’s wealth. In the following year, however,
£5500 was written off; in other words, the property which
one year increased in value by about 20 per cent., in the
next year fell in value by exactly as much. But the
original £IO,OOO or so with which the Brisbane bidding
was papered still sticks —the freehold, included ori, inally
for £13,905, is still taken in for £24,500. (The odd
£SOO is apparently value legitimately’ added by improve-
ments made by the co.) This writing-up of assets one
year and writing them down the next; this conversion of
deficits into surpluses, of small surpluses into big ones—
all this may not be juggling, but it bears a strange re-
semblance to it.
No dividend is payable by the Australian Met-
ropolitan this year, or at least the directors recommend
that none shall be paid ; and that is the only cheerful
feature in the whole dreary landscape. The expense rate
is still preposterously high. Notwithstanding that no
dividend is allowed for this year, the outgoings, apart
from claims, amount to £BO 10s, 6d. per cent, of the total
income. This compares with past records in the fol-
lowing way’:—
Expenses and Dividends Compared with Total Income.
1897 .. £6O 13 2 per cent. 1901 .. £59 8 7 per cent.
1898 .. 69 3 9 „ „ 1902 .. 107 14 3 „ „
1899 .. 70 7 0 „ „ 1903 .. 80 10 6 „ ..
1900 .. 63 4 5 „ „
There has, it is true, been an increase in income of
£4578, which is presumably what the co. has to show
for its extraordinary expenditure in the previous year,
when £4751 had to be taken from the funds to meet
expenses and claims. Yet, in spite of that extraordinary
expenditure, which ought to have been followed by a
rush of business provided the co. had anything decent to
offer, it only added £976 to the funds this year. At that
rate it will take five years to return to the till the amount
which the co. had to take out last year in order to make
its splash. That is also assuming that the claims won’t
increase meantime. Here, anyway, is the position for
the last two years : Of the total income £9O 4s. Id. per
cent, has gone to pay canvassers, clerks, superintendents,
shareholders, and directors; and only £9 15s. lid. per
cent, has been left to cover the ever-increasing liabilities,
for every new premium means anew liability undertaken,
and every renewal premium represents an actuarial
increase in the amount of an existing liability.
The amount of insurance on the Metropolitan’s
books is not disclosed. It is stated, however, that the
premium income on policies in force on August 31st
was £19,682, and this seems to suggest, on a rough
estimate, that the total amount of the policies for which
the company is liable, is something approaching £400,000.
And apart from the £10,095 paper which it has plastered
on the Brisbane freehold, it has accumulated £5669
towards meeting the liability. On this basis, if all its
policy-holders dropped dead to-morrow it could pay
(exclusive of the paper beforementioned) very nearly 3Jd.
in the £. Even reckoning the paper as worth 20s. in the
£, it cbuld only pay 9d. in the £.
Nevertheless, the directors announced (Nov. 5,
1903)that “during the past year an actuarial investiga-
tion of the position of the co. as at 31st August, 1902, has
been made, with the result that the liability under every
policy in force at that date is provided for.” This may be
read to mean that, on Nov. 5 of this year, the liabilities as
at Aug. 31 of last year were “provided for”—in other
words, that this year’s premiums have had to go towards
providing for liabilities incurred prior to August 30 of last
year. The last previous actuarial investigation was made
as at August 31, 1900, when a surplus of £6227 was dis-
closed. Even if the assets (including the paper on the
Brisbane building) on August 31, 1902, were equal to the
liabilities at the same date, it looks as though the
alleged surplus had disappeared in the meantime. Any-
way, the statement is utterly unsatisfactory ; it doesn’t
disclose who made investigation, or what was the precise
result of it; and the annual report of a co. which is
touting for the savings of the people should be definite.
And this society “ has been placed upon the list
of offices with which employees may’ assure their lives, in
compliance with the Public Service regulations of the
Commonwealth of Australia ” ! Do the Commonwealth
officials exercise any discrimination at all, or do they
simply approve of every concern that applies, allowing
the concern to make what use it can of the imprimatur?
* * * *
The Executor, Trustee, and Agency Cos. of
South Australia (Adelaide)
Written Added T ANARUS,
Profits. Dividends. off to Re- Ke ‘
Sept., Leasehold, serves. serves-
-1897..
1898.. £l3lO 5 p.c. =£536
1899.. 1593 5 „ „ 589 £2OO 804 2279
1900.. 927 5 „ „ 745 75 107 2386
1901.. 1877 5 „,, 767 685 425 2811
1902.. 1833 5 „ „ 767 690 376 3187
1903.. 2836 6 ~ ~ 921
The co. has now got rid of the last of its paper assets.
Rs business continues to improve steadily; the estates
under its care are now valued at £1,302,556, as against
-£<>51,499 in 1900—a very rapid increase indeed. The
profits for the year are equal to a handsome £lB 9s. per
cent, on the paid capital alone (£15,355),'0r to £ls 6s. per
cent, on the capital and reserves combined—which is
also pretty handsome. The assets mainly consist of
Government stock (£13,053) and cash pr.deposits (£4285) •
the interest receipts were equal to paying a few pence
oyer 4 per cent, on the capital. Altogether it is a record
of unusual prosperity.
* * * *
It has been stated in N.S.W. Assembly that
the claim of Howard Smith and Cos. for £250,000, on
account of two wharves resumed by the State, was
settled, when (he case had made a little progress, by the
firm accepting £35,250. Naturally the public feels
interested. The co.’s last balance-sheet declared (and
the document was sworn to) that the value of all its
freehold and leasehold property in all parts of Australia
was £43,901. It has got £35,250 for two wharves in one
of the many ports where it trades. It asked £250,000 for
them—apparently, unless there is some explanation that
doesn’t yet appear, nearly six times the alleged value of
its whole freehold and leasehold properties. Did anybody
swear to that £250,000 valuation? Parliament should
insist on an explanation. The idea that discrepancies of
that size can go unexplained won’t help the State to get
fair terms in future resumption cases.
* * * *
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. op Austral-
asia, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Added Nomi-
Profit. Dividends. Written to Re- nal Re-
off, serves, serves.
1900
£18,554
f 7 p c. pr«M
{71 „ def. > =
,, ord. J
£11,300 £5513 £1741 £1741
1901
£14,583
(7 „ prer. 1
•{ 7i„ def. V =
I 44 ,, ord. J
10,250 2995 1338 3079
1902
£10,414
(7 „ pref.
:-{7i„ def. V =
1,1 ,, ord. J
7,800 1873 741 3820
1903
£17,304
(7 ,, pref. \
\7i„ def. /*
7,100 7860 2344 6164
There are 80,000 cumulative preference shares, 20,000
non-cumulative (or deferred) preference shares, and
70,000 ordinaries, all £1 paid ; and. the strain of paying
heavy dividends on the preference shares, especially as
most of the capital is represented by goodwill and similar
items, has been too great to allow the ordinaries to draw
anything now that the bicycling boom isn’t what it was.
Still, though the bicycling boom isn’t what it was, the
Dunlop Co. has added new industries to the old one (it
has started the manufacture of solid rubber goods, for
instance), and so the turnover is greater now than ever.
The gross revenue has been as follows :
1900.. ..£41,286 I 1902 .. ..£37,883
1901 .. .. 36,413 I 1903 .. .. 47,681
Prospects, therefore, are very considerably improved,
though the future will depend very largely npon what
happens during the Commonwealth elections. In 1900-1
the co. spent £21,830 in wages, salaries, etc. ; in 1902-3
£30,377 ; and if Australia wants to lose that £30,377 as
well as all chances of an extension of the business, it
has only to vote for the party which prefers that
rubber and other goods shall be imported, and the wages,
salaries, &c., paid and spent in foreign countries. In the
Dunlop Co.’s figures at the head of this notice the
reserves are described as nominal. To get at the real
reserves it is necessary to deduct the merely paper assets,
but this can’t be done, owing to the fact that goodwill,
trademarks, and similar intangible items are bunched
with other property. Originally the composite item
represented £130,716, but this has now been written down
to £121,500; how much of it is represented by goodwill it
is impossible to tell. The co. is now working on a pretty
heavy overdraft (£24,556), whioh isn’t too healthy.
Apparently it needs more capital, yet unfortunately it
has to carry too much capital, represented by goodwill,
&c., already. To level things up the preference share-
holders might supply some ordinary capital.
* * * *
Compare, for the past year, the State-owned
and managed Cape (S’African) railways with some of
those of Australia :—
Working Ex- Net Earnings
Gross penses to to Capital In-
Earnings. Earnings per vested per
cent. cent.
N.S. Wales.. £3,314,893 .. 68\37 .. 2'52
Victoria .. 3,367,843 .. 63'63 .. 2-70
Queensland 1,234,239 .. 69’95 .. 1-82
Cape Colony 5,291,627 .. 71-4 .. 653
These Victorian figures do not include pensions and cer-
tain other payments. Or take the whole of the Aus-
tralian systems for the past two years : —
Deficit (amount of In-
terest not Earned).
r K
1902. 1903.
N.S. Wales .. £33,321 £425,879
Victoria ... .. 197,226 365,255
Queensland .. .. 449,946 494,128
South Australia .. 102,155 60,429
N. Territory .. .. 65,650 45,578
Surplus (amount Earned
above Interest).
Westralia .. .. £12,168 £30,887
Cape Colony.. .. 147,581 644,093
And yet the Cape Colony working expenses per cent, of
earnings are higher than they are in either of the eastern
States—proof, to some extent anyway, that high railway
profits and low wages don’t necessarily run together. On
the other hand, low freights and excessive borrowing to
build “ developmental” lines are pretty certain to mean
big railway deficits and in the end low wages. The Cape
has borrowed about £23,200,000 in connection with its
railways; N.S.W.’s railway debt is approximately
£41,000,000. In other words, N.S.W. has to earn
£630,000 more than Cape Colony in order to pay interest
alone.
* * * *
Comparing the results for the past year with
the results of former years, the Westralian railways show
up in this way:
Working
Expenses
Available to Interest
for Earnings Earned
Earnings. Interest, percent, percent.
1894 .. £140,564 .. £36,591 .. 73 96 . . 312
1895 .. 296,000 .. 113,954 .. 61‘50 .. 515
1896 .. 529,616 .. 265,912 .. 49'79 ... 1118
1897 .. 915,483 .. 337,828 .. 63-09 .. 9'05
1898 .. 1,019,677 .. 233,359 .. 7711 .. 4-62
1899 .. 1,004,620 .. 292,291 .. 70'91 .. 4-55
1900 . 1,259,512 .. 398,042 .. 6810 .. 5'81
1901 .. 1,353,704 .. 308,784 .. 7719 .. 4’35
1902 .. 1,521,429 .. 265,059 .. 82'58 .. 358
1903 .. 1,553,485 .. 305,612 .. 80‘33 .. 375
There is very little margin now between the amount of
interest actually paid and the amount earned—nothing
like enough to pay for the depreciation represented by
the increasing age of the lines. And as a good deal of the
Westralian railway system is jerry-built, the depreciation
is particularly heavy.
* * * *
The interest on the accumulated deficits of the
Northern Territory (they amount to about £1,190,000)
now mop up all but some £7000 of the gross receipts.
One year’s expenditure (including interest) is equal to
three years’ revenue, and the annual deficit (about
£120,000) is equal to 2J years’ revenue.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Miners’ Accident Relief Fond,
which began operations in 1901:—
Carried to Re-
Gross Claims. Expenses, serves for Un- Total
Income. expired Risks. Reserves.
1901.. £31,906 £6,821 £101 £24,984 £24,984
1902.. 39,036 11,096 1,546 26,394 51,378
The fund is provided, half by the workmen (every mine
employee is a contributor, the employer being required
to deduct 9d. per fortnight from his wages), and the
other half by the employers and the State, in equal por-
tions. Interest is also becoming an item of some im-
portance, amounting for last year to £1479. The large
increase in the expense rate is due to an amendment
of the law providing for the payment of the local
committees which, under a central board, administer the
fund. Many miners, seeing the rapid increase of
reserves, have urged that either contributions should
be reduced or benefits should be increased ; but, in view
of the fact that the fund provides for the payment of life
pensions in certain cases, it is much too early yet to say
that the contributions are too heavy. The following
figures, which show the amounts per cent, of the
employees’ contributions which have been required to
meet claims for each quarter since the fund began, go
still further to prove that no change can safely be based
on experience so far : —
March, 1901 .. 19’61 p.c. March, 1902 .. 39'09 p.c.
June, 1901 .. 27’08 ,, June, 1902 .. 43‘23 „
Sept., 1901 .. 36-5 „ Sept., 1902 .. 51'61 „
Dec., 1901 .. 37-29 „ Dec., 1902 .. 5771 .,
The funds are for the most part invested in N.S.W. stock.
The Public Actuary of S. Australia makes the
usual discovery with regard to the friendly societies of
that State : most of them are insolvent. Of them all
there is only one the present value of whose assets is
equal to the present value of its liabilities. That is to
say, there is only one which, in the ordinary course of
events, according to the actuary’s calculations, will be
able to pay 203. in the £. The trouble, of course, is that
the societies were founded on unsound principles, yet,
because claims were paid all right while the great
majority of members were young and vigorous, the con-
tributions were held to be sufficient; they had no thought
for the time when the young members would become
old, and sick, and death claims would pour in; and
some of them are not doing much to repair
the damage even now. The oldest of the orders
are, no doubt, meeting with the greatest.difficulty simply
because a greater proportion of their members are now
old, and incapable of paying higher rates, while the drain
in sick and funeral expenses is also naturally higher.
Among the larger societies the Grand and Manchester
sections of Oddfellows, the Foresters, the Druids, and the
Hibernians stand lowest on the list. All were pro-
jected with the best of intentions. They taught men to
deny themselves to-day for the sake of to-morrow. But
they had no eyes for the day after to-morrow, and the
weary day that is at the back of that.
• * * *
An alleged American society, according to an
S.M. Herald paragraph (which is proof, anyway, that
the thing isn’t a joke), gets over the difficulty which these
South Australian societies are bumping against. “ When
the number to be relieved is more than the funds can
provide for, then the dependents are thinned out by
suicide, and the one or more to commit suicide are
selected by ballot.” Probably, however, there would
be scruples against introducing this system in these parts ;
and certainly the alternative plan of making the contri-
butions a bit heavier at the outset, so as to obviate the
necessity of subsequent suicides, does seem to have its
advantages. * * *
The National Fire and Marine Insurance
do. (Dunedin, Maoriland)
v Added
Written to Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. Reserves, serves.
1894.. £19,395 15 p.c. = £14,706 £5400
1895.. 16,981 15 „ ~ 14,706 2123 £152 111,007
1896.. 16,740 15 „ „ 14,706 2248
1897.. 16,216 15 „,, 14,706 986 624 111,317
1898. 8,846 12£ ~ „ 12,255
1899.. 20,028 12| ~ „ 12,255
1900.. 26,388 12J ~ ~ 12,255 1000 13,133 128,814
1901.. 24,600 124 ~ ~ 12,255
New share premiums added to Reserves 2,029 143,188
1902.. 32,436 ,, „ 12,500
1903.. 27,622 15 ~ ~ 15,000
The dividend has been put up to the old 15 per cent,
rate ; and still the additions to reserve are very hand-
some. Interest and rents amounted to £11,383, and
that alone would pay £ll 7s. Bd. per cent, on the capital
(£100,000). Of the funds £141,365 is invested in loans on
mortgage, £55,900 in debentures, £II,BOO in freehold
properties, and £59,250 is on deposit. There has been no
marked increase of business during the last three years ;
in this period, in fact, the premium income has been
almost stationary. This and some other leading features
are shown hereunder :
Premium Interest T n«a»« Working
Income, and Rent. iJ ° sses - Expenses.
1899 . £95,120 £8,515 £53,719 £29,857
1900 .. 102,264 9,086 54,991 29,950
1901 .. 108,120 9,862 62,013 31,325
1902 .. 109,476 10,306 54,029 33,235
1903 .. 109,856 11,383 59,843 33,699
The working expenses (including taxation) amounted to
£3l 7s. 9d. per cent, of the net premium income in 1899,
and had been reduced to £3O 13s. 6d. per cent for the
past year.
* * * *
A most useful property is that English capitalist
of immense importance that nobody seems to have heard
of before, who always turns up at the right moment to
corroborate the morning papers, and tells them that,
unless the thing they object to is abolished, England will
lend no more money. This is the S.M. Herald’s latest:
“ Mr. J. Bevan Braithwaite, an English financier of
note, who arrived in Sydney on Saturday, spoke in strong
terms to a representative of the Herald of the condition
of our credit in England. He stated that the credit of
New South Wales was perfect so long as it was a Free-
trade State, but with Federation and the tariff, financiers
became shy. At the present time, he would not dream
of underwriting any loan from New South Wales or any
of the other States.”
Considering that N.S.W. never was a Freetrade State,
that when it called itself a Freetrade State it paid as
much as 5 per cent, interest, that heavily protected
Canada gets loans more cheaply than N.S.W. ever did,
and that Mr. Bevan Braithwaite doesn’t seem to be so
well known here as he might be, it is a fair thing to ask
for further information.
* * * *
After all the Tory shriek of joy that “ the suc-
cess of the Victorian £5,000,000 conversion loan ’’ was
solely owing to the resolute way the Irvine Government
trampled on “socialism,” it is interesting to hear that
Irvine, though he offered most lavish terms, only per-
suaded the old holders to renew £3,400,000. The public
took £500,000 at an exorbitant rate of interest, and at
time of writing Irvine was looking for £1,100,000 with the
eye of one who looks for ice in Sheol.
* * * *
A Sydney firm of auctioneers is offering for sale
a bit of old Sydney which is connected with many old-
time merchants, a four-storeyed store in De Mestre-place,
which is situated on the block between Hunter-street
and Martin-place. In the year 1830 there were but three
owners on the frontage of George-street between the
G.P.O. and Hunter-street—Riley on the corner of the
latter street, Prosper De Mestre in the centre, and
MacDonald on the southern end.
* * * *
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd., the big
wool people, of Sydney, include in their assets a
goodwill item of £40,000, which, in accordance with
established practice, is not taken into account in the
following
Written Carried to
Sept., Profits Dividends off Reserves Deficit
1893 .. £14,235 6 p.c. = £6OOO
1894 .. 18,969 6 „ 6000
1895 .. 22,957 7 „ 7000 £9,513 6,444 13,387
1896 .. 13,629 8 „ 8000 5,000 629 14,016
1897 .. 18,176 8 „ 8000 5,000 5,176 19,192
1898 .. 13,120 8 „ 8000 2,500 2,620 21,812
1899 .. 14,424 8 „ 8000 4,000 2,424 24,236
1900 .. 12,741 8 „ 8000 2,000 2,741 26,977
1901 .. 6,120 7 „ 7000 10,000
1902 .. 11,192 7 „ 7000 2,500 1,692 17,789
1903 .. 9,014 7 „ 7000 2,000 14 17,803
The co.’s balance-sheet gives very little information. The
principal asset is freehold property ; the original cost was
£179,513; from this £32,513 has now been written off,
leaving it at £147,000, and it carries a mortgage of
£72,000. In 1893 the mortgage stood at £IIO,OOO, so
a substantial reduction of £38,000 has been made in 10
years. The only other asset mentioned is “ amounts due
to the co., £95,534" —presumably advances. The only
test which can be applied to these is the amount of
the profits ; and these, for the past year, are equal to a
solid £7 13s. on shareholders’ funds as at the commence-
ment of the year, reckoning the reserves, of course, as
above. Probably, therefore, the advances are satisfac-
tory.
* * * *
Another fight in the coal trade is showing up in
the distance. Hitherto, the inter-State business has been
in the hands of the shipping and carrying co’s. —the
Adelaide, Howard Smith, Huddart Parker, and others.
Lately, however, J. and A. Brown, who own the Pelaw-
Main and other collieries, took steps to setup a coal-yard
of their own in Melbourne ; and other owners are follow-
ing that lead. Hitting back, cue of the carrying co.’s has
taken up coal-bearing land at South Maitland, and others
will probably follow. The coal-user will smile for a while,
but in the end he will probably have to hump the extra
weight of the capital put into the new and unnecessary
mines, wharves, ships, yards, &c. And the miner will
suffer, too, unless he has more luck than usual—though,
if owners deliberately set out to cut one another’s throats,
it isn’t certain how far the Arbitration Court will say
that the miners ought to bleed for it.
* * * *
South Australia finds out over again the
difference between a big crop at a small price and a
small crop at a big price. Last year it was selling its hay
up to £3 a ton ; this year, with no prospect of an export
market for chaff, it is selling good stuff for as little as 15s.
* * *
The City op Bbisbank Building Society,
which began five years ago with a deficit of £42 (pre-
liminary expenses):
Dividend and Carried to
Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. Deficit.
Sept., 1899 £6O 6 p.c. = £36 £24 £lB
„ 1900 123 6 „,, 108 15 3
Re-
serves.
„ 1901 188 6 „ „ 167 21 18
„ 1902 206 6 „ „ 199 7 25
„ 1903 275 5 ~ ~ 255 20 45
Deposits are being wisely kept low ; the society owes only
£772 under this head. The reserves consist of £23 reserve
fund (£lO has been added during the year), and £22 un-
divided balance. Progress continues satisfactory.
* * * *
Annuity: A.M.P., £125 3s. 4d.; Equitable,
£l2B 10s. ; Mutual of N.Y., £l2B 10s. ; New York Life,
£l2B 11s. Bd. The last is paid yearly ; the others half-
yearly. The City Mutual (Sydney) offers £157 189. 4d.
English offices offer rather less than quoted above. In
the special circumstances of your case, and if you have
nobody depending upon you, this form of investment
would probably be better than any other Inquirer:
Referred to Westralia.
(Continued on page SO.)


DAVID JONES & COM PAN Y,
The Bulletin
D.J. Orient” Boot
BLACK OR TAN
CALF,
16/6
Narrow or
Nouni Toes,
special]
VALUE J
The Bulletin
George & Barrack-sts,, Sydney
The Bulletin
READY FOR THE HOLIDAYS?
What could be more enjoyable and interesting,
and yet so simple, than taking nice Photographs
of your Friends and Pretty Scenes, or Incidents
of Travel ?
Harrington’s
30/-
“ VICTOR ”
HAND CAMERA
Will take Portraits, Groups, Views and Snapshots. Size of Photograph, 4} x Si.
Anyone can operate it easily.
The “VICTOR” is a compact, neat, and thoroughly serviceable Magazine Hand
Camera, being fitted with fine Achromatic Lens, 2 View Finders, Time and Instantaneous
Shutter, 4 Diaphragms, Magazine carrying 12 plates. Perfect changing arrangement, with
automatic indicator. Book of simple instructions Free with Camera.
Postage in N.S.W., Is. 3d.; to other States and New Zealand, 2s. 2d.
Illustrated Catalogue Free.
HARRINGTON
CO-
LTD.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
MERCHANTS.
66 King St., SYDNEY; and 93 Queen St., BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
[?]
The innocent, but well-meaning, Melbourne
dailies cordially approved of the severity of a
Port Melbourne magistrate who lately inflicted
fines totalling £64 125., in default 37 months’ hard
labor, on four ruffians who had brutally assaulted
a publican, his wife, and a constable—the last was
THE GLAD COOK.
“ A Victorian poblican, prosecuted the other da y for having bad liquor on his premises, pleaded that it was
THE COOK:"'Sorl ri', bosh; 'sonly th' cookin' whiskee!"
...not much short of being kicked to death. The
maximum penalty was inflicted in each case, but
as-far as the ruffians' themselves were concerned,
they might almost as well have been acquitted.
Within four days friends had subscribed the full
amount and paid it in to the clerk of the court.
“Friends” are always available in such cases.
Some unfortunate female in the background has
to find the money for her “bloke” under pain of
being thrashed something extra when the party
concerned comes out ; also under pain of being
thrashed by proxy while he is in. To all intents
and purposes she might as well be fined in the
first place.
Some of the results of big landlordism in
Victoria. Take a 30-miles radius round Melbourne,
excluding the city itself (every place within seven
miles of the G.P.O. is here reckoned the city).
Gn the west is rich land, and big landlords who
grabbed it and shut off settlement; in that half
the population averages not quite 12J to the square
mile, and there are 19 State schools and post
offices. On the east there is poor land ; the big
landlords didn’t think it worth grabbing, so it fell
into the hands of small holders. The population
is 56j to the square mile, and there are 86 State
schools and post offices. It is only necessary to
break up those big holdings, and give the west of
Melbourne the same chance to accumulate popu-
lation as the east, and a good many thousands of
Victoria’s emigrating citizens would be accom-
modated.
• • * •
“ M.” : Much is being printed about the
sweating of parsons and curates. How about the
sweating of congregations by the parsons ? There s
an Anglican clergyman in a N.S.W. town I know
who probably hasn’t had a meal in his own house
since his arrival. He and his wife invite them-
selves out to breakfast, dinner, tea and supper.
And now and again they billet themselves on
members of the flock for a week or a fortnight at
a time. This condition of affairs has been going
on for months —but a revolution is fermenting.
* • * *
There are not Hebrews enough in Hobart
now to pay a Rabbi. There is a synagogue,
though, a relic of the days when Hobart had a
large Jewish population, and opposite the syna-
gogue is a pawnshop. There are only two pawn-
shops in Hobart.
* * * •
“J.A.C.”: Be “ War-E.’s ” remarks on
the tobacco cadger (B. 29/10/’O3). I was seated
one day, in Hyde Bark, when I was joined by
one of the Honorable Guild. He was very
affable, and entered into conversation
regarding the weather and other absorb-
ing topics. Shortly, he wanted to
know if I had a pipeful of tobacco.
I had, and he got it. He then
told me that he had asked me
because he “ didn’t like asking
a stranger ! ” Evidently the two
or three remarks about the weather
had raised me to the status ofa friend.
insufferably tiresome “ temporarily
insane” verdict was lately replaced by “suicide
while suffering from mental depression,” at Wel-
lington (M.L.). There had been quite an epidemic
of self-made defuncts—nine in three months—and
the coroner said it was wholly improbable that
they were all mad. The man under review (who
had shaved too deeply with a razor) was, in fact, a
mo3t cheerful person, as evidenced by his last
letters. So the jury varied the old formula, though
it is by no means certain that it improved things
much. Going strictly by the evidence, the verdict
should have been “Suicide while apparently feel-
ing more glad than usual.”
The ridiculous precedence question, which
leads to two fat ecclesiastics being stuck publicly
in a narrow doorway, was virulent half-a-century
ago, when N.S.W. was a very young self-govern-
ing State. Then the Duke of Newcastle, the Joe
Chamberlain of the day, sent out a despatch
ordering that, on all public occasions, the clergy
of the Church of England should have precedence
of all other clergymen. Robertson kicked against
the dictation, and the subsequent row in Parlia-
ment ended in matters remaining as they were.
Many questions have been settled since then, but
the question as to which humble shepherd shall
go first has defied all settlement,
ANOTHER DISCOVERED VOICE.
SHE : “So he praised mg singing, did he !”
HR: “ Yes, he said it was heavenly .”
S HE: “Did he really say that?”
H E: “ Well, not exactly; but he probably meant
that. He said it teas unearthly.”
A religious paper says this :
Why are churches, as a rule—both Protestant and
Papal—so opposed to all proposals of sanitary reform and
evince such preference for unclean practices ? Take two
matters only. The strongest opposition sanitary reformers
encounter against the introduction of cremation, in lieu
of the unhealthy practice of placing dead bodies in and
around all our towns and cities, comes from the churches ;
and the strongest antagonism to the introduction of the
separate communion cup as against the use of the single
goblet comes from the same quarter. All institutions
seem to grow with the times except the churches.
Well, the churches started with the theory that
everything that it was necessary for a man
to know was written and finished some 1900
years ago, and every new discovery has been
an outrage on this theory. As for the
dirtiness of the churches, the churches live
to some extent on preventing or curing
disease by prayer, and the party which cures
or prevents disease by sanitary science is a
rival show. The Protestant churches have
not been so bad in this way, for they have
been washed to some extent by the civil law,
but the Papacy lost its temporal power
because there was no civil law to wash it, and
it wouldn’t wash itself. The Papacy was
certainly no worse than the average of its day
as a civil ruler—except that it was dirtier and
less scientific. If a first-class American en-
gineer had been elected Pope in 1846, and had
made the Papacy synonymous with a rebuilt
Rome, with good drains, good water-supply,
good roads, with railways, tramways, public
baths, cleanliness, and a general rush to get
manufactures started and big pork-canneries
put up, the Pope might to-day rule Italy
from the Alps to Sicily. There was a time
when a new drain and a soap factory might
have turned the scale, but the offal lay in
the streets till Victor Emanuel’s troops came
and cleaned up. No one can say now which
dead cat left in the gutters of old Rome was
the last straw, but there must have been some
such cat. Protestantism has been more for-
tunate. It never had a centre where it wielded
the temporal power, and where it was ob-
viously responsible for the dirt, and was
judged by the defunct cat in the gutter.
The girl who wrote this—a scholar in a
high-class N.S.W. school—will have a vote in a
year or two :
In England there was an important event going on
which is known as Free Trade. The people wanted this
Act to be passed so they would not have to pay too much
for goods to be brought from England to other countries
by ships so they thought it would be better to have a
Bridge or Canal put across the river and then they would,
be able to go and fetch the goods themselves and do away
with ships and so this was carried out and is known as
Free Trade.
“C.P.” : One generally expects discord
from the average amateur choir, but when two of
them get together, as happened in Bendigo (Vic.)
recently, things are likely to end in chaos. A
concert was organised to give the flagging
soldiers’ memorial fund a lift, and both choirs
were to take part. No. 1 got through its first
performance with great 'success, and retired to
criticise its enemies. But there was a conspiracy
in No. 2 organisation, and, after finishing its
number, it began to “Gor Save” with great
vigor, and the audience thought it was all over,
and, grabbing its hat, started for home instead
of waiting to hear No. 1 choir sing again. Then
the two conductors came forward and performed
a brilliant duet with a crescendo movement, in-
terrupted by the mayor fortissimo, and the town
clerk, and the meat inspector. Arguments
andante, allegretto, diminuendo, pianissimo, and
cussissimo, in 2-4, 6-8 and even time, were going
on all sides, and the police were just about to have
the Riot Act read when the lights went out and
saved the situation. Now the opinion of No. 1
choir about the place No. 2 choir will go to when
it dies consists mostly of brimstone and pitchfork.
• • • •
N.S.W. Government analyst Hamlet’s
evidence before the Parliamentary Select Com-
mittee on Preservatives in Food, the other oay ;
should make cheerful reading to those persons
who confine themselves to non-intoxicating liquors
for their health’s sake. He said that he had
known as much as 60 grains of salicylic acid in one
pint of colonial wine, while 23 grains were fre-
quent. The highest percentage of acid—as much
as 80 grains—was found in non-intoxicating wine,
labelled “Pure Grape Juice.” This wine was
used in churches for sacramental purposes. Also,
many temperance drinks contain d not much
short of 80 grains of salicylic acid per pint! No
wonder some teetotallers look sour.
• • • •
“G.H.”: I wish to defend the lady with
the false hair, removable hips, buttoned-on com-
plexion, etc. Pretty well everybody has arisen at
“My heart is in my mouth” he sighs,
(And steadies for the pull).
“ Ah , me,” she cries, and drops her eyes
“ Don't speak—your mouth is full!”
some time or other and cursed her, but it seems
to me that she deserves praise rather than any-
thing else for her attempt to improve the land-
scape. If we can’t have a world full of real
dimpled Junoes and Psyches, let us endeavor to
cover up the fact. It is the most objectionable
feature of our sister of the W.C.T.U. that, as a
rule, she refuses to avail herself of aids to beauty
but prefers to walk abroad in her unredeemed
scrawniness. When Virtue starts to wear high-
heeled shoes, silk stockings, curly hair, etc., bin
will be knocked flat. Also it will stay flat.
SOME RUNAWAY RINGS.
[FRO THE BULLETIN.]
. . . Mr. Reid quoted from Tennyson, and Invited the
audience to join with him in ringing out “the slowly-
dying cause.”— Argus, 31/10/’O3.
Ring out, wild skite, to the wild sky
Proclaim the Jester on the spout 1
Acclaim each jape, and ring it out:
“ The Cause ” is dying ! —Let it die 1
Ring out the good old “ Freetrade ” fake
Of blessed “ cheapness ” on all hands—
Because of goods from foreign lands—
Ring in some work, for goodness sake 1
Ring out the famous price of starch—
The Yankee boots ; the German lamp;
Ring in a Dog that will get damp—
Ring in some better laws next March 1
♦
Ring out the papers that distress
The people with their daily crams
And nicely-doctored cablegrams—
Ring in a new Australian Press 1
Ring out the “ All for Sydney ” game—
The Gerrymandering of Lyne,
The fraudulent importer’s whine,
Ring in a Tariff worth the name 1
Ring in an iron industry,
Ring in a higher price for brains,
Ring in a tax on unearned gains I
Ring out O’Sullivan and See 1
Ring out the fatal borrowing creed,
Ring in a reign of common-sense,
Ring in prosperity immense ;
But, first— ring out George Houstoun Reid !
VIC.
O. C. CABOT.
MISJUDGED.
[FRO THE BULLETIN.]
via
Passed me in the crowd,
Dressed in something grey.
Thought me rather proud,
Would not look your way ?
Wore a stately dame
On my arm—what then ?
You would know her name ;
Cannot trust us men.
Oh, you make me laugh—
Why destroy your glove ?
Do not want the half
Of my fickle love ?
Yet that fair “ divine,” May
(Curb your passion hot),
Lady-love of mine, May,
Certainly is not.
Let me hold you so, pet,
Since I must explain ;
Kiss me soft and slow, pet,
Twice and once again.
So that stately fair, dear,
Shall not cloud your life—-
By my faith, I swear, dear,
She was but my wife.
CHARLIE CRAWFORD.


I suppose you shave ! or, if not, of course
you require your hair trimmed. The most
fashionable gentleman’s hair-dressing saloon in
Sydney is Wild’s, at 30 Sydney Arcade —the
Arcade that runs from George-street to Kino-
street.*
•Will
m
V
- .;■ -i
THE BEST IN THE WORLD,
Helpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
The Bulletin
Unvarying
in
Quality.
General Hutton still affects to misunder-
stand the attitude of the Australian Parliament
towards his department. (Perhaps he really does
misunderstand ; recent disclosures show the
average British officer capable of almost any
power of misunderstanding.) Speaking the other
night, General Hutton said :
Our unpreparedness for war had been well-known to
soldiers for many years. But the soldier had been set
aside. The civilian had triumphed, and the need i of
defence had been subordinated to political considerations.
That is very far from being the real situation.
General Hutton asked the Australian Parliament
for a huge sum of money for the fuss and feathers
of fashionable staff officers. Parliament, at the
instance of the Labor party, said “No,” and
insisted on shearing a lot of the boa, and tiie
guipure, and the insertion, and the silk-lining off
the military system. But the Labor party, all the
while, urged an increased expenditure on rifles.
The position really is that Gen. Hutton asked for
feathers and was offered guns. He says nothing
in reply about the guns but wails loudly over the
feathers. He has the housemaid’s idea —that there
is nothing like a rooster’s tail for sweeping an
enemy away.
♦ * * »
There was a lot of flummery about the
reception of the Governor-General and State
Governor at the review of the Victorian military
forces on King’s Birthday. It seems that at former
functions of the sort the State Governor had been
ignored. Little Clarke objected to this, and
thrust his chin higher in the air than usual. It
was arranged, therefore, that on the present
occasion His Ex. was to arrive by pure accident,
three minutes ahead of the Governor-General,
and be received with a salute. Then he had to go
and conceal himself behind a blade of grass while
the Governor-General arrived, and kept up the
pretence that no one else had been there before
him. He, too, received a salute. Then little
Clarke had to step out to the G.G.’s carriage as if
he had just dropped accidentally from heaven,
and again there were salutes for “both of them
together sitting side by side.” A great deal of
international complication would be saved by
having no State Governor.
* • * *
“ S.” : The pervading desire to get some-
thing for nothing usually leads to getting Nothing
for a great deal. When a certain
stout gentleman, whose voice was
like the foghorn of a P. and O.
mail boat—Bent was his name,
if I remember rightly was
making a general mess of Vic-
toria’s great deficit department,
one of his economies, calcu-
lated to restore the country
to a sound financial position,
was to grant free rail tickets,
ranging from 12 months to
nine years, to anyone build-
ing a house in his own
electorate, or any one of
various other places.
Various houses were
slung together in a
hurry and got the con-
cession. Now every
‘‘To Let” in the
vicinity is advertised
as with “free rail-
way ticket.” The
something- for - noth-
ing man comes along,
takes a lease and
moves in, and in many
cases finds his free rail-
way ticket is for a
month only. It is an
ordinary season ticket,
paid for by the landlord.
The great free pass, good
for nine years or so, has, of course, been issued
to the landlord, and he isn’t going to part with
it. In some cases it is worth more than the
house.
* ♦ * *
Some of the Sydney suburbs experienced
an unusual sort of burglar, recently. What most
distinguished him from others of the Bill Sikes
fraternity was that lie would only touch hard
cash. His method was to enter the house per the
verandah post, go thoroughly through the pockets
and purses of the sleeping inmates, and then
depart, leaving untouched all jewellery or identi-
liable valuables. He seems to have had a charmed
life, and his assurance passed all understanding.
One householder was awakened by Sikes getting
through his window and straightway fired a shot
at him, whereupon he vanished. Ten minutes
later the disturbed shooter heard firing from
another house near by, and on cantering over to
give assistance, found that the same gentleman
had just deft hurriedly in advance of a couple of
bullets. The flurried citizen returned home, but
hadn’t been in bed ten minutes when he was
startled to discover the late intruder coining
through his window again. Though he made
bullets fly very suddenly, the thief got away as
safely as before. That neighborhood spent the
rest of the night on its respective front verandah
with a gun, and even then the amazing burglar
is said to have tried sundry back doors.
CRICKET CONNOISSEURS.
“ Well, if those two little men are going to play all that hulking lot I call it a jolly shame;
and if they don't win they ought to, that's all I can say."
Malcolm M‘Eacharn’s amiable spouse made
a little speech to members of the Sex at the Pres-
byterian Schoolroom, North Melbourne, t’other
day. Mac. having introduced her to the company,
she meekly asserted the need for all women to
diligently and intelligently barrack for the “ best
men.” Mac., of course, was specially instanced
as the best man for North Melbourne, and all the
right-thinking ladies present were enrolled as a
committee. At the forthcoming election every
candidate on the wrong side of 40 will want a wife
in the field. If he can’t produce his own wife he
must borrow somebody else’s.
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
LITTLE WILLIE (who has just returned from a
Sunday-morning walk round the pubs with
his father): “ Oh ma, I have had six glasses
of nice lemonade this morning."
HIS MOTHER : “ Then I presume that your father
has had six glasses of nice whisky on this
holy Sabbath morning."
The death of an old woman in Melbourne
last week seems to have been helped on by
shocking indifference on the part of the hospital
authorities. The woman was 80 years of age and
had met with a burning accident. This is the
story of the constable who took her to the Mel-
bourne Hospital:
After waiting in the casualty-room for a few minutes he
asked if the doctor was coming, and the nurse said that
the doctors were at dinner. When the doctor came wit-
ness went outside, where deceased’s son told him that the
doctor could not admit deceased, as there was no bed.
Witness at first refused to take her away, and, having
discharged the cab, had to go and get another. When
they put deceased into the cab she was in great agony.
She was taken to the Homoeopathic Hospital, where she
was refused for want of room, and eventually she was
admitted to the Alfred Hospital.
The worst feature of the case is that Melbourne—
its sensibilities dulled by a long course of Irvine
administration—takes practically no notice of these
frequently-recurring hospital horrors.
Once more the greatest leniency has been
shown by a Victorian J udge to a person found
guilty of barbarous cruelty to a little child. A
woman, named Lilian Nancy Murray, of Drouin
South, was, on Sept. 23, convicted, before a police
magistrate, of wilfully ill-treating a girl under 14
years. This girl was her niece, and the woman
had two children of her own. The evidence
showed that she had beaten the girl with a stock-
whip, struck her on the head with a poker and a
piece of wood, and had cut her forehead open with
a teapot. The medical testimony was that the
child’s body was covered with bruises, her nose
had been beaten in, and there was a great scar on
her forehead, and she had a broken bone in the
wrist. The magistrate sentenced the woman to
three months’ imprisonment without the option.
There was an appeal to Judge Chomley, who
reduced the sentence to a fine of £5, because if she
were imprisoned her two children would be
deprived of her cai-e. Had this woman stolen a
bunch of Drouin South carrots from her neighbor
she would probably have got 18 months and a
severe lecture on the sacred rights of property
from worthy Judge Chomley, even if she had
22 children.
A recent Melbourne petitioner in divorce
put up quite a record as a long-suffering husband,
slow to anger and of gradual habit. He had been
married 14 years when, returning home one even-
ing, he found a certain Mr. Mann in the house.
There was “a bit of a scramble, and he walked
Mann out,” his wife following an hour or two
later. A week later he met the lady and Mann
taking a box to some lodgings. He took the box,
expecting the lady to follow, but miscalculated
somewhat.- A month later he visited her in ser-
vice, and once more desired her to return. She
refused. _ Then he took her to see her children,
and put it to her that if he was willing to forgive
she might surely accept his indulgence, but she
wasn’t taking any pardon business. A month or
two later he once more happened across her, with
Mann, and again urged her to cotne home and be
virtuous some more. He even, when she declined,
tried to put her in a cab and rush her away to
respectability, but a passing constable assured
him that the law wouldn’t allow any lady to be
violently rescued from wrong-doing in a. cab.
Then he gave the job best—and got his decree.
* * * *
There are some who are doing what th'-y
can, for all that the statisticians say. One who
asked a Queensland court, the other day, to make
an order against the alleged father of No. 3,
admitted that she had just added a No. 4 : and
all are registered in different names. Ar.d she
got the order, too.
Judging by the columns of report of the
speeches at Melb. Mayor’s inaugural dinner, all
appropriately interlarded with “ laughter,” “ hear,
hears, ’ “cheers,” etc., one might almost imagine
that the real leaders of Australian public life and
thought were speaking; whereas, what were they ?
Two imported gubernatorial figure-heads, the
imported Admiral of a foreign fleet, a Japanese
Consul, an imported Major-General, and an
obscure State Premier Only plain George Turner
stood for Australia, and he stuck strictly to his
own business—finance—and enthused not at all
about the “ unity of the Empire.”
* * * *
John Forrest brightened the platform of
Adelaide Town Hall on the occasion of his
speech there by inducing his wife and several
brightly dressed society ladies to occupy seats on
either side of the Mayor. They beamed down on
the audience in a moat patronising fashion and
courageously displayed their shapely ankles as
they reclined in their chairs during the two hours
oration. Well-turned ankles are a strong in-
fluence in politics.
* * * *
From a recent issue of tlie Adelaide
Advertiser :
rjiHE Fiends of Mr. are respectfully
-*- informed that the remains of his late wife will be
removed, etc., etc.
A truly devilish blunder by the comp.
An American savant has been investigating
the effects of the eating of vegetables on the
human temperament. It appears that carrots
induce mildness of disposition, while the beet
creates and fosters jealousy. Consumers of this
tuber always imagine that the other party cannot
beet root to them.
THE DIFFERENCE.
"Why wouldn't you accept your elector's right,
Mary!”
“It wasn’t mine—it teas some ‘domestic ser-
vant’s,’ and you know I’m a “ lady help.”
Melbourne University and Museum will
both have an unexpected windfall through the
death of George M'Arthur, of Maldon (Vic.), who
suicided lately. M‘Arthur owned what is proba-
bly the best Australian collection of Burns’
editions, and these, it is said, go to the University
library, along with a number of old Bibles, illumi-
nated missals, &e. The Museum’s share will be
a collection of coins and swords.
CONTENT.
[FRO THE BULLETIN.]
Time has laid his sceptre by just for one sweet afternoon,
Glamorous gold the sleepy sunlight beams,
Willows bending touch the river, with a tremulous kiss
and quiver
Breathing softly through its sylvan dreams.
Rippling o’er the feathery grasses come the clover-
scented breezes,
Resting on my lips caressingly,
And a boundless, deep content, by the breath of heaven
lent,
Thrills slumbering heart and brain in harmony.
Love was false and I, despairing, dreamt not I would
cease from caring,
But the sun will be warm-hearted till the last,
And though all men were untrue, while the skies above
are blue ;
Why trouble with the Future or the Past ?
Where the graceful black swans glide on the river’s lazy
tide,
Where the willows with their weight of green are bent,
When my heart wakes up again to the outside wmid of
pain
To the grassy bank I’ll come and be content.
HELEN DOUGLAS.
LIFE.
[FRO THE BULLETIN.]
M.L.
I set my ships a-sailing
Upon the deep blue sea—
With tattered sail and broken mast,
Lo ! they returned to me.
I sent my heart a-fighting
The battle of the free —
Bub wounded with a mortal wound
Came my heart back to me.
I sent a prayer to Heaven
(If such a place there be).
Like ships and heart, will my last prayer
Return, some day, to me ?
W. FRANCIS CHAMBERS.
LIFE AND SONG.
[FRO THE BULLETIN.]
If Life and Song were one—if noble deed
Could ring as sweet as some dear charmed reed,
If Life around were all a blossomed dell
Where Song went pealing like a silver bell,
What tides of Joy unseen might surge and swell
If Life and Song were one?
If every clanging discord softly died,
If loving heart and hand harmonious plied,
If all our days were shot, like silver shine,
With love and hope and yearning all divine,
What perfect peace might clasp our souls and twine,
If Life and Song were one ?
If every soul could see the light afar,
If every breast could hurst its prison bar,
If every goal to which our hearts aspire
Were nobly great and pure of mortal mire,
What seraph band could match our earthly choir,
If Life and Song were one ?
Q.
P.L.


BE
SURE
IT'S
&
“ VALAZE ” Russian Skin Food eradicates
freckles, wrinkles, sunburn, sallowness, acne pimples,
all blemishes. Guaranteed to improve the worst skin in
one month. Price 3s 6d and 6s, postage 6d. Miss Nellie
Stewart writes : “ Valaze has made a marvellous differ-
ence in my complexion; cannot praise it enough.”
Helena Rubinstein & Co , 243 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
“ Hop.”, of The Bulletin, is a passenger
from Europe by the G.M.S. Bremen, which
readies Sydney just before Xmas.
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lact6, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
7s. 6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne. Sydney—Mrs. Rogers, 54 Strand
Arcade ; and Miss Cuthbert, 11 Victoria Arcade.*
“Steele Rudd’s” second book, “Ouk New
Selection ! ” —will be ready before Christmas.
Better than the first book, if possible; with many
illustrations.
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER iDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
3
§V. raincoats.
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
P.D. CORSETS.
P.D. CORSETS. * P.D. CORSETS. * P.D. CORSETS.
The Bulletin
£?/'
* * *
'Je/wtev
THE ABOVE TRADE HARK 13 A GUARANTEE OF THE HIGHEST ART IN CORSET fiAKING.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 17, 1903.
Mr Dear Arini.—
In the chromatic dusk of State Government
House drawing-room was held, last Friday after-
noon, a meeting to discuss ways for raising funds
to increase the accommodation of the two con-
sumptive sanatoria in this State. It was officially
a Mayoress’ meeting convened by Lady Rawson,
but bis albatross Excellency, Drs. Sydney
Jones and Purser, and Mr. T. A. Dibbs did the
work. The facts which these gentlemen set
before the thirty odd ladies were interesting and
saddening. Tuberculosisisapreventibledisease, yet
4000 persons die of it annually in Australia and
16,000 persons are now suffering from it. There
are only 62 beds available for patients at
Thirlmere and Wentworth Falls (inclusive). There
is no provision for women at Wentworth
Falls; it is found that four men apply as
against one woman, and as the man is usually the
breadwinner, he is given the preference. The
sanatoria cannot keep up steam unless they get
more gold to put into their bunkers, and the
Excellent Sea-Bird, and the two doctors, and the
banker, and Mr. James Fairfax told the women
that they would have to do something in the way
of stoking. From £75 to £BO a year would
support a bed. If each municipality would raise
£lOOO the interest on it would provide a perpetual
endowment, and the bed could be called after the
various municipalities. There are now chances
for the suburban mayoress to walk into the fore-
ground of the societyscape, to say nothing of
increased chances of walking in the fields of
amaranth in the Great Hereafter.
Mr. T. A. Dibbs, with his early Roman front
and curly top-knot, arose and spoke fearfully of
the possibility of inroads being made upon the
sanatoria capital-fund of £17,000, which is at
present bringing in an income of £5OO or so.
Then he added, “I’ll tell you what I’ll do, I’ll
give £lOOO to endow a bed—it can be called after
me.” And he sat down amidst considerable
applause.
His Ex. made a valuable suggestion that the
accommodation at Wentworth Falls might be
increased right off by means of tents. Mr. Fair-
fax moved for a ball at Sydney Town Hall early
in May, 1904, to raise money to augment the
Queen Victoria Home for Consumptives Fund.
And a list as long as Cranbrook drawing-room of
proposed committee women was read out.
As well as the ball and the suburban subscrip-
tions the trustees might well decide upon a flower
feast for next year. It could be held in Septem-
ber or October (our floweriest months) at the
Cricket Ground. I mentioned the kind of enter-
tainment a few weeks ago. Roses, roses, and
music all the way, good-looking girls selling
button-holes, and tea, and leaflets of verse about
waratahs and wattles and Spring in Australia, and
jugs of wine, and loaves of bread, and things
written by local poets, such as Victor Daley,
Roderick Quinn —oh yes, and Major Neild.
Sydney girls, even those outside the Went-
worth electorate, are taking considerable interest
in the campaigns of the two candidates for that
borough—Messrs. Dailey and Kelly. Both are
unmarried young men. Mr. Kelly has the advan-
tage of possessing a motor car, and he is doing a
lot of his wooing by taking out the feminine
electors (at the rate of five loads a day) for rides
in his 40-mule power car. Poor “Jack” Dailey
has no motor-car, and will have to get in oq, his
merits.
It would not be a feeble idea for the ladies who
are helping our flannel-flower candidates, to get
themselves dressed after the fashion of the six
handsome damsels who come on in “ A Country
Girl” to help their candidate jump through the
political hoop. These six are real pansies, and a
view of their gowns—dull rose (one with a wide
green belt that makes a most huggable curve all
round her equator) heliotrope, baby-leaf green,
and brown, the shade of a Gordon setter’s paws—
is remembered longer than most women remember
a beautiful sunset. Miss Claire Berry, who has
the speaking part of the six, gets to the inner
circle of style with her first gown of black net
embroidered with black chenille poppies, and cut
steel, over a robe of white crspe-de-chine. A big
white hat with black ostrich feathers (a whole
bird’s wing is on that hat) is worn at an angle
that would fascinate into a Protectionist the most
bigoted of Foreign-traders.
Did you see that the Prince of Wales has been
pleased to accept the appointment of Colonsl-in-
Chief to the Australian Light Horse ? The little
man is about 18 colonels, and he should—to be
'air to every one of the 18 regiments—wear his
18 uniforms. It would be a nice compliment,
which would be, to quote the words of a local
gush telegram concerning this appointment to the
King, “received with enthusiasm by the military
forces and people of Australia ” —and other
peoples too. He would be a beautifully cosmo-
politan jackdaw in all his uniforms.
A curious bundle of typewritten matter —letters,
circulars and excerpts from papers—comes to me
from “ Hickman and Co.” Mr. Hickman is the
father of the woman doctor whose disappearance
from her duties at a London hospital caused such
excitement. The subsequent finding of her dead
body, the inquest and verdict of suicide are now
things of the past. But these letters and circulars
were sent out whilst the lady’s fate was still a
mystery. The bereaved father harps upon his
daughter’s physical and mental strength, her
balanced intellect, freedom from sentimentality,
and dwells upon her “passionate” love for her
family and friends, and goes on to say that it is
quite possible that, overwhelmed with the re-
sponsibilities of a resident-surgeon at a large
hospital—she disappeared the very first day that
she entered on her duties there —her balance of
mind may have been upset and a loss of memory
may have caused her to wander.
Then a curious sectarian element creeps into
che heap of literature. Mr. Hickman points out
that owing to the great increase in the number of
convents in England the chance of his daughter
being ‘‘detained” —why any convent should seek
to detain her isn’t explained—is much greater
than if there were less convents, and he goes
largely into statistics. In a purely arithmetical
way, his view seems logical enough ; the increase
of buildings of any kind doubtless increases the
chance of anybody being in a building of some
kind. Still, the implied theory that the lady was
in 685 convents seems to suggest that she was
strangely numerous. In the end her body,
which showed traces of poison, was found
in a suburban park. Her death, apparently
the indirect result of the “overwhelming responsi-
bility ”, of the hospital, will be a boulder in the
path of women doctors who aspire to such
responsibilities in future. By the way, an Aus-
tralian lady doctor, who was once put in charge
of a hospital, signalised her promotion by getting
a bad attack of hysterics when her first serious
case had to be treated.
Fresh-Air Leaguers want more money. Last
year was a very lean year, because of the drought,
so they are holding a floral fete and concert, with
side-shows, in Sydney Town Hall, on Wednesday,
25th inst.
Students’ Operatic, Oratorio, and Dramatic
Society (Modesty, thy name is a synonym for
amateur), gave its first performance in Grand
Opera, at the Royal (Sydney), last week. As the
students hadn’t had sufficient rehearsals, they were
not so bad as they might have been. One of them
missed only eight lines out of one song. There
are some beautiful voices among them. Miss
Elsie Dwyer, a 16-year-old Bendigo girl, took the
part of Marguerite (“ Faust ”), and most agree-
ably sustained the role in voice and action. Miss
Carrie Lancelley as Senta (“ Flying Dutchman ”)
was also a very good girl. Want of accord
between singers and orchestra almost made comic
opera of the grand excerpts. Yet the orchestra
contained some of the best men in the Musicians’
Society. Perhaps it was . But no, such a
thing is impossible. On the other hand, it may
have been .
Students’ next appearance will be in a Shak-
spearian play, to be rehearsed and produced under
the direction of Mr. Laurence Campbell.
A sum of £l2OO is .dozing somewhere, waiting
to be spent in decorating the pallid interior of
our Town Hall. The artists might paint a frieze
of, say, laughing jackasses and waratahs round
the walls for that sum ; it wouldn’t run to much
more.
The wonders of up-to-the-minute surgery ! We
have all heard, but have lent sceptical ears to,
the stories of how faces may almost be born
.again by, the remodelling of certain features.
Those of us who believed the stories thought that
if we wished to have a feature chiselled down or
levelled up we would have to go hence—to Paris
for choice—to secure the operation. Well, the
face-values of the defective can be improved right
here in Sydney. The instances are very few,
because so few persons know that the men and
the means for the improvement are in their
midst. No advts. come from inside the sacred
aura that surrounds the British Medical Associa-
tion. Met a girl last week whom I had not seen
for two years. Then she carried one of the most
defective of noses—it was a deformity—con-
cave across the middle, with the tip jutting out
and upwards. It is now a nice normal straight
nose. Something which she described as paraffin
wax in a warm, fluid state was injected under the
skin of the faulty part and modelled into shape as
it hardened. A local doctor performed the ap-
parent wonder. He had also given a girl’s
brother, so she said, more chin. “Also, ”
(naming a well-known lady whose friends are in-
nocently imagining her increased weight to be
due to lapping cream) “has been to him to have
the ‘ salt-cellars ’ in her neck filled out.”
As Mr. Haddon Chambers is an Australian, his
doings as a playwright are some slight interest to
us down under. His play, “The Golden Silence,”
lately produced in London, is said to be a play
written round one player—Miss Irene Vanbrugh.
There is little of nature in it, but mountains of
unrealities. A certain sculptor is the honorable
lover of a wealthy, married countess. His ardor
cools when this lady announces her intention to
get a divorce, and he remembers that a sweet girl
is pining for him. But he won’t propose to the
S.G. because she is so rich. The worn-thread-
bare device of making the heiress pretend to be
poor is adopted, and she wins him. There is a
cake-walk and a gramophone in one scene) and a
really funny interlude, in which a foolish baronet
announces his engagement to a music-hall artiste,
over the telephone, to his mother. It reads
curiously to learn that “the author had a hostile
reception.” One wonders why—for the critics
seem to agree that the play is decent in tone, and
never dull.
Mr. J. 0. Williamson left Sydney last Sunday
en route for London. He took with him as secre-
tary Mr. Monty Grover, formerly of the Argus
staff.
If there are any women agricultural students at
the Australian agricultural colleges, they may be
interested to know that Lady Warwick formally
announces the inauguration in England of the
“College of the Daughters of Ceres.” That’s
poetical enough for the most romantic. During
the last five years 225 women students have quali-
fied in dairy-work, poultry-farming, bee-keeping,
horticulture, and the marketing of produce. The
chief college degree will probably be D.D.—-
Doctor of Digging. There is a great demand,
especially from Canada, for these Lady War-
wickers. The j ust establi shed college is at Studley
Castle, with its park of 340 acres. A number of
women, old, middle-aged and quite young, went
to Mildura, the irrigation settlement on the
Murray, in its early days, to grow vines, apricots,
oranges and lemons, and rear the bee all on their
own without male aid. On paper —the Chaffey
paper—the scheme looked idyllic. But in practice
the heat, or the lack of male aid, or the prose of
the life coupled with the way the lemon and
orange declined to be bustled into bearing, spoilt
the idyll for them. Very few, if any, women were
there on their own at the end of seven years.
Hibernian Society of N.S.W. is to send a bunch
of our native flowers to Lord Hopetoun, frozen in
a block of ice. Frozen blooms are a great failure.
While in their iceberg they look a mass of colored
rags seen through a dirty window-pane, and when
thawed out they are pappy and half-decomposed.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“These meetings to instruct women re their
political duties are not bad fun. All the men
I have happened to hear in the role of
instructors, are desperately conservative. They
say that, of course, they do not presume to dictate
to male or female how they should vote, but there
are ‘ a few points’ they will just refer to. Then
they proceed to throw out dark hints about
‘interfering with the individual.’ Scribe
hears of a woman, who,- puzzled by said
vague phrase, whispered to her ‘crony’
‘ Who does he mean by the individual ?' Crony
whispered baok ‘ I don’t know, but I fancy
he must mean fast women—you know what I
mean—it seems those sort of characters are trying
to monopolise the vote.’ ‘Oh yes, I suppose the
police are going to interfere,’ rejoined the first
speaker, placidly. Then the orator goes on to
warn woman against ‘Labor/ saying that ‘every
candidate should represent all classes, not Labor in
particular.’ Well-dressed woman approves of this
sentiment, not being much attached to Labor. A
Labor member in the audience shouts, ‘ Why, it
was Labor gave woman her vote.’ He is severely
sat upon by the ‘instructor,’ and told that
‘Woman has come here to be instructed, not
insulted.’
“There’s a ring of sincerity in the regrets
expressed regarding the going of the Sydenham
Clarkes. Stonington has been generous and
industrious in entertaining; almost every Sun-
day there was a rally in the big room for
pleasant little concerts. Chinny, too, has been
the busiest, readiest, most conscientious little Ex.
the State has known for a long time. He was
quite unequal to any kind of brilliancy, but he
was a serviceable little man, sincere—and prac-
tical, despite his art and music dilletantism.
“ One of the most chronicled frockers of the Cup
carnival was the youthful Countess de Rougemont,
a resplendent visitor to these shores. The showiest
of her turn-outs was a crimson and white foulard
hung in places with lace, with a crimson hat
depending for its smartness on the cunning
arrangement of its fiery-hued flowers.
“Collins-street, these days, knows a queer
sight in the fashion adopted by a Variety artiste
right from the land of the Burnt Nigger—skirt
short and so tight as to hint at the action of the
knee-joints in her perambulations, a close-fitting
coat over a plump bust and a sombrero skewered
to a compact brown thatch.
“ Those society girls who essayed to obtain a bit
of verse or a characteristic quote from Count Vay
de Vaya were not successful. A few favored
albums contain the mere signature of the Mon-
signor, nothing more. He could not be induced
to leave any sentimental tag to his most precise
signature. He was altogether a curious cleric—
no collection plate and no trite maxims to scatter
around.
“Mr. Carlyle Smythe was married at St.
Barnabas’ Church, Balwyn, on Wednesday last,
to Mrs. Bode—a very youthful widow—who was
born in Maoriland, educated in Germany, dwelt
awhile in Switzerland, and was hard at work
polishing her musical top notes for the concert
platform when Mr. Smythe and matrimony inter-
fered. The bride is said to be really able to enjoy
the Argus articles in which her husband spreads
his lore and his views of Art. St. Barnabas’, by
the way, has in the north wall a stained glass win-
dow in memory of Andrew Murray, who edited
the Argus what time the much-travelled Smythe
was writing, in the fashion of his son to-day,
dramatic and Art notices for the Melbourne
Herald, then an emphatic morning journal.
“Of the townspeople who profited by the Cup
visitors few reaped such a bountiful harvest as
one fashionable thatch-designer in Collins-street.
With five assistants she was kept going with
crimp and curl and coil the whole Cup week from
dawn till an advanced hour of gaslight. Not
having 30 hours for the hundred and one who
wanted to be thatched in style on Cup morning,
she had to resort to the device of dressing the
heads the day before—so that half of fashionable
Melbourne slept the night before the battle in its
beautifully brilliantined coils.
“ Lady Tennyson’s voice rang valiantly through
the Town Hall at the opening of the well-
engineered District Nursing bazaar, the other
day. It wasn’t the usual vacuous opening speech
with a smile and a so-glad-to-be-here assurance.
The practical Excellency fired off a column of
comparative figures in evidence of the extent and
work of the District Society in England and here-
abouts.
“The Countess of Darnley (formerly Mis*
Florence Morphy, of Echuca) opened the Fair,
second day, with much self-possession and quite a
champion little speech. The returned Victorian
has altered very little from the dashing girl with
the fine eyes who captured the then Hon. Ivo
Bligh, when he brought out his cricket team.
Her bazaar-attire of ivory-silk and handsome
lace was topped by drooping burnt-straw hat,
with wreath of pinky-purple fuschias, same
color appearing in waist ribbon, leading to crude
clashing of hues when a presentation posy of
crimson carnations was added to the picture.
The Cliveden widow, in cream oolor and. many
artificial violets, tripped round the stalls with her
kinswoman, the Countess, who (like many other
local belles who have married ‘ well ’) was
staying at the Clarkes when she captured her
cricket celebrity.
“There was a sprinkling of Society people on
the railway platform the other day when Bigjohn
Forrest and his dame set forth by the Adelaide
express. All the nice young men who had taken
part in the Forrest minuet class with the smart
girls nf Toorak brought along their offerings of
Beaucaire roses and carnations. It was quite
affecting. It’s a pity the painstaking dame hasn’t
a baker’s dozen of daughters to settle. Perhaps,
though, the absence of such family cares accounts
for the attention the lady receives from the
youths. Generally speaking, the Society mamma
is a horror to young Adolphus, who detects
ulterior motives in her ingratiating smiles.
“Miss Muriel Rich, theßrisbane visitor, whowon
admiration during recent Melbourne festivities,
was bound to be a beauty if heredity counts for
anything. Her mother, the wife of a former
Queensland P.M., was and is a gracious and
charming lady. Mrs. Rich’s father was an army
captain, who sailed for Queensland in the long
ago with his wife and their family of two hand-
some daughters and two sons (Stanley and
Willie Hill). The debonair brethren entered the
Bananaland Government service, one ultimately
becoming a P.M., while his brother (C.P.S.
at Rockhampton) made money in Mount Morgan
and went to England to buy back and settle
down on an estate, formerly owned by his for-
bears. On the voyage to Australia the Hill
sisters both became engaged to young sprigs
of good family (Messrs. Rich and Eden), whom
they subsequently married. But the outward-
bound journey, which began brightly, ended
sadly for the Hill family. Nearing Bananaland,
there was a death on board, and a boat party was
told off to bury the body on a neighboring island.
Captain Hill went with the party to read the
burial service. Somehow, the boat lost sight of
the ship, and was adrift on tropic seas for days,
her inmates suffering agonies from heat and thirst.
When rescued Captain Hill was stone blind, and
never recovered his sight.
“The Deakins have chosen a home far from
the jingle of tram-bells, the clamor of street
criers, the creak and the roar of traffic. Down at
the river-side end of one of the narrowest thorough-
fares in South Yarra, and elbowed by two close,
reserved-looking houses, the tall, secretive, iiigh-
walled residence of the Deakins is wedged. The
outer wall is formidable, and the massive gate,
which doesn’t allow a chink for a peeper, is locked
from within. A tote-shop could not be better
protected, nor a private distillery, nor a racing
favorite. A ring at the wall-bell brings
a maid. Then all the reserve vanishes. A small
garden—-where one of the tall Deakin girls dallies
with a book on music—is crossed, and then the
solid, compact, tailor-built style of a house, is
opened unto you. I happened on a charming
domestic picture. In the large, cool, uncrowded
drawing-room the wife of the Prime Minister was
seated at the piano, playing and marking time
aloud, while a very pretty silken-haired girleen,
the youngest daughter of the house, bent,
thoroughly absorbed, over a ’cello. No need for
Mrs. Deakin, in subsequent chat, to tell you
she is no society whirler. All her interest lies in
her family and her home. ‘ I don’t wear
dainty petticoats,’ laughed the matron, ‘and I
wear plain clothes, but in variably the papers put
me in something different —very often something
nicer. You see, I’m not known. I only go where
I absolutely must! ’ And she laughs the matter
off. ‘ Did you see how magnificently my husband
is being treated in Brisbane ? . Isn’t it great ? He
tells me of it all in a letter this morning. He only
wishes I could have a peep at some of the demon-
strations.’ And when at last you leave this tall,
shy, devoted woman it is with good wholesome
impressions of a cultured home.
“A dainty little Melbourne recitress has fallen
on her feet. A wealthy and childless Society
matron has taken her into the fold and threatens
to adopt her. That’s the sort of gift a recitress
should have. To draw rich ladies in this fashion
is better than to rouse an audience (personally
unconcerned about the fair one’s elocuting) to
delight. As a rule, the she-reciter has a hard
time in Melbourne. ‘At-home’ hostesses don’t
go out into the highways and by-ways searching
for her, and only at a rare suburban concert is her
art in demand. Private lessons seem to be the
only way to gather in grist.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


YOU NEED A TONIC.
This is just the season when you want a tonic to brace you up—and the best tonic is Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
Many think Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are purging pills—like common pills. That is a mistake.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don’t purge—they’re tonic pills.
Dr. Williams' Pink Pills are absorbed gently into the system. They tone the nerves and fill the veins with
new, pure, rich, red blood.
That is why they cure all blood and nerve diseases—anaemia, indigestion, palpitation, neuralgia, sciatica,
rheumatism, lumbago, backache, kidney trouble, liver complaint, biliousness, and skin diseases.
That is why they will give you new strength and energy. Better start taking them to-day—they’ll do you a
world of good ! They’ll put new life into you !
Cured In North Sydney.—" I used to be a ruddy-complexioned, strong man,” says Mr. E. McKay, of Rock
Lily, “ but I became weak and subject to fits of biliousness. I lost all appetite, and my skin was as pale as parchment.
Doctors said I was debilitated and dyspeptic. Learning of the virtues of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills in a case like mv own,
I tried them. A few doses brightened me up. They actually made new blood for me. One box made a world of
difference —two more boxes enriched my blood to such an extent that I was able to digest my food properly and gain
strength from it. Now lam sound, healthy and hardy—and no amount of work can tire me. That’s the truthful record
of the great blood-building and nerve-toning remedy in my case.”
Price per box, 2s. 9d ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE WHATEVER-GET THE GENUINE.
Six boxes, 15s. 3d.
1L
topic
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Worker suggests that “Knight of
St. Grogery ” would be a better title.
Died in London, John Greenlaw Foxton,
aged 93, father of Queensland’s ex-Minister.
A girl aged 13 gave birth to a child,
t’other day, at the Adelaide (S.A.) maternity
home.
Zeb. Lane, father of the better-known
Zeb. of Westralia, is still, at 74, managing the
Lord Nelson, the principal mine of St. Arnaud
(Vic.). He passed the 74th year post on Nov. 5.
Three Federal members have died since
the opening of the Commonwealth Parliament —
Sargood (’Vic.), W. H. Groom (Q.), and Piesse
(Tas.). Dickson, a member of the Cabinet, died
before the elections.
The yam is revived in Adelaide that
Premier Jenkins Iscariot will shortly succeed
Grainger as Agent-General. In Fogtown Jenkins
will be an American foreigner; his naturalisation
doesn’t reach that far.
Said that “ Elijah ” Dowie is having a
residence built at Mt. Lofty (S.A.), the rich
man’s summer resort, about 20 miles from Ade-
laide. A yarn that he will fly up and down to
Adelaide every day is probably incorrect.
Bishop Welldon, of Calcutta, who visits
Australia, is head of a diocese that once included
the whole area of the Commonwealth. The first
C.E. clergymen in Botany Bay were subject to
the jurisdiction of the Bishop of Calcutta.
Cabled that Cardinal Moran, before leaving
Rome, asked to be allowed to settle in Italy, but
his Holiness hustled him back to where he came
from. It seems a pity. A less combustible
cardinal would have done well enough for Aus-
tralia.
King O’Malley, M.H.R. : “If any hard-
faced, ungaoled scoundrel should circulate slanders
about me on the eve of election, when too late to
reply, vote for me just the same, and if I fail to
1 ind him in gaol or the Bankruptcy Court, I shall
resign.”
THAT RACIAL INSTINCT.
LITTLE IKE: “ Thath right , hit away. Hit me
again! Give me a black eye, vy don’t you?
I mean to thue for damages.”
This quaint advertisement appeared
among the public notices of Adelaide Advertiser
of 29/10/’O3:
IF A. Fisher attempts to assault or insult me while
my collarbone is unwell, I will not be responsible
for my actions.
John F. Condon.
N.S.W. Parliamentary candidates seem
determined to let no chance slip. One of them,
the other day, obtained three names to a requisi-
tion inviting him to stand, by assuring the owners,
separately, that each would carry off the first
prize in the current hen-laying competition at
Hawkesbury College.
The freshest-looking member in N.S.W.
Assembly during that recent all-night sitting was
Pa Brunker. At 4 a.m., when cart-horse young-
sters tossed about with furrowed brows and
bloodshot eyes, the venerable cow-auctioneer held
up a face of cherubic satisfaction. He was the
only living thing in the Chamber, barring “Larry,”
worth framing.
Last week saw the final departure of a
number of old identities. The widow of Edward
Knox, of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co., aged
82 ; Vincent Dowling, pastoralist; William Kil-
gour, of Dalgety's; John Lackey, aged 73; Pres-
byterian parson M’Kinnon ; Count de Rossi,
aged 89; and old Charles Nicholson, within five
years of his century.
Some birthdays of this month : President
Stirling, M.L.C. (S.A.), 60 on the sth ; Governor-
General Northcote, 57, and Representative
M’Millan, 53, on the 14th; Sailor Guthrie,
M.L.C. (S.A.), 45 on the 17th ; Archbishop
O’Reily (S. A.), 57 on the 19th ; Senator Dobson,
62 on the 24th ; Senator Tom Playford, 66 on the
25th; Mark Twain, 68 on the 30th.
“ F.” : At 84 years of age explorer A. C.
Gregory has been made a K.C.M.G. After a wait
of 30 years the old man could have done without
it. Apropos. The Sydney Lands Office niches
were reserved for statues of explorers by land and
sea, but some are empty and some contain stone
politicians—Parkes, Martin, Farnell, Deniehy,
&c. Surely there is a niche for Gregory ?
Joseph Winter, of Melb. Advocate, and
brother Sam, of the Herald, have returned from
their trip to the land of the Mikado. As a result
of the visit the Advocate is appearing with
photographs of Joseph being carried round the
country in rickshaws and other glorified peram-
bulators. He has the modesty not to disclose his
identity to the public. Not so diffident was Vic.
Judge Casey, who did some globe-trotting in his
time. On one occasion, when delivering a lecture
before a Melbourne literary society, he exhibited
a limelight view of the Pyramids. It was not so
much a picture of the Pyramids, however, as of
J udge Casey perched on a camel with the Pyra-
luids as a background. A badly-suppressed snig-
showed that the audience saw the point.
John B. Dailey— the National candidate for
Wentworth (N.S.W.) constituency in the Austra
lian Parliament —is the one son of the great W. B.
Dailey who recalls his father. Though young
yet, and new to public life, he promises to develop
on the same lines. His success, which is pro-
bable, will restore to Australian politics an historic
name, and give the national cause an earnest
advocate.
John Aitken Manton, who died the other
day at Woollahra (N.S.W.), aged 70, was the son
of Fredk. Manton, a Vic. pastoralist as far back
as ’39, and grandson of Joseph Manton of
“rifling” improvement fame. J. A. Manton,
with his brothers, erected the first Chilian quartz
mill at Maldon (Vic.) in ’53, and in ’6O discovered
the Peak Downs copper mine (N.Q.) which paid
£250,000 in divs.
E. T. Smith, South Australia’s brewer-
knight, who lately celebrated the 50th anniversary
of his landing at Port Adelaide, has been a city
mayor five times and a suburban mayor five
times, and served 30 years in Parliament. Also,
he was twice a Minister under Jaunty John Bray
—once for a month and once for two months.
But almost every old man in S.A. has been a
Minister at some time or other.
Said that Daniel Cooper, senior, deposited
£40,000 to guarantee the up-keep of the baronetcy,
Saul Samuel £30,000, and William Clarke
£lOO,OOO. England won’t give a new hereditary
title to any man who cannot make it quite sure
that his son, at least, will have some cash. The
grandson or great-grandson may be a Gibeonite
shoving a wheelbarrow, but no Australian
baronetcy is old enough for that yet.
“ M.”: The most intelligent democrat
out for the Tasmanian elections for the Senate
is Mac Master, the journalist who is nominated
in the Labor interest by the southern leagues.
Mac Master talked to a shocked crowd of
Hobart’s most fashionable women the other
evening, and his text was: “The Labor party
is going to win, but only after an arduous
struggle; and those who enlist now have the
stern delight of taking part in the battle of men
against money.” As a Laborite, Mae’s ideals are
broad. He admits two sections of society : the
Laborer and the Loafer, and he has no good to
say of the Loafer.
One representative citizen of Mel-
bourne got a considerable shock through
the Argus’ patent idea of finding out
whether its readers’ names are on the rolls
or not. It was very little trouble to go to
the post-office and look at the list himself,
but it was less trouble to let the Argus do it
for him. The Argus clerk replied that his
remarkable and unmistakable name of Beriah
Plug was on the roll for Toorak and also for
one of the outer suburbs, giving both
addresses. He shuddered when he saw them.
Of course, it wasn’t Flossie’s fault; the
suburban cottage was rented in his name,
and his little friend had naturally given
him as the occupier. But the awful thing
is that his wife is a shining light of a Woman’s
League, which is always pawing the rolls,
and now he daily prays to all his gods to
direct her eyes away from that column ; for
the name of Beriah Plug isn’t one that can
be explained away, and he is by nature calm
and stolid and hates rows. Besides, Flossie
wouldn’t approve of his wife.
Adelaide has its best-known identity
in paralysed Patsy Weldon, and wonderful
are the tales woven round him. One is that
he owns a lot of valuable city property ;
another, that he can afford to send two of his
sons to an expensive college. Folk have even
made a romance out of his marriage, and
yet there are those that say Patsy is a
bachelor. There is another story that he is
just as stone-broke as he appears to be, which
is probably the correct one.
Hackett, of Westralia, is the only Australian
politician who habitually gets styled Dr. on the
strength of an honorary degree conferred by a
foreign university. Kingston, Bigjohn Forrest,
Turner, Fysh, Seddon, Reid and numerous others
had the same “honor” imposed upon them, but
they have let the public forget it. Still, they
don’t edit, and partly own, a daily paper, and
Hackett does.
Australian members of Parliament are
put to queer uses. Some years ago writer saw
on Dubbo railway station a huge cage of white
cockatoos consigned by a Coonamble constituent
to a then M.L.A., Mr. Cass, for sale in Sydney.
Now John Hurley tells an admiring crowd in the
Opposition room that a settler at Etnmaville lias
forwarded him the skin of a black snake which he
desires shall be sold to the Museum.
The political career of ex-Senator Ferguson
is worthy of notice. Ferguson won his position
as Senator (while away in England) by virtue of
the efforts of a lawyer-agent who sent an election-
card to every Queensland voter. Elected as an
absentee, Ferguson consistently remained an
absentee Senator most of his time, and finally lost
his senatorship by too much absenteeism. And
yet he displaced really capable politicians at the
election.
A REASONABLE IDEA.
MRS. BEEF-EATER: “ There goes Mr. Le-Kab-
bage; doesn’t he look thin and delicate, and
he’s a vegetarian.”
MR. BEEF-EATER: “Tut, I never yet knew a
vegetarian that had any meat on him."
Deakin is not the only Premier in this
country who thought Hansard men should, as
part of their official duties, follow him about with
notebook and pencil. Patrick Jennings, when
N.S.W. Premier, ordered the staff out for his
country tour, but the sitting of a Select Com-
mittee was made an excuse for declining. Free-
trade leaders —Jennings at that time was ad
valorem —have no difficulty in getting themselves
reported, but Procectionist speeches delivered in
the country are simply travestied in the Sydney
Freetrade dailies.
A farmer in the Dubbo (N.S.W.) district
killed himself last week after coming to the con-
clusion that his crops had been ruined by heavy
rains.
Maoriland’s champion whited sepulchre
died lately. William Waring Taylor was, 40
years ago, a man of spotless reputation in Wel-
lington. He was the Speaker
of its Provincial Council and a
pillar of the kirk, and he was so
highly respected of the people
that he was made the trustee of
all manner of persons’ savings.
If a parent wished to point out
to his son a model of integrity
and probity Waring Taylor
would be the model. He was
the G. Washington of the
Maoriland city, and a street
was named after him. And all
the time he was industriously
conveying to himself large sums
out of the trust estates he was
managing. When the truth
came out Wellington was thun-
derstruck. Prendergast, C.J.,
sentenced him to a considerable
term of imprisonment and wept
over the old hypocrite. Judges
generally do shed tears over
these scoundrels. Taylor came
out of gaol a few years ago,
and spent the last of his days
in an out-of-the-way part of the
State. His name has long since
disappeared from what used to be Waring Taylor-
street.
An Adelaide pressman :
Bundey definitely steps down from the Adelaide
Supreme Court Bench at the end of the present month,
but probably his successor (Attorney-General Gordon)
will not be appointed until the end of the long vacation
in March next. The Bulletin erred in stating that Judge
Bundey was once Mayor of Adelaide. That Bundey, also
named William and also resident in North Adelaide, was
a pious contractor who long ago reaped the reward of
militant Methodism in the other world. His judicial
namesake’s only connection with local government
affairs was as clerk of a district council when he was very
young.
“ Flyspeck ” : Re B. par. (5/10/’O3).
John Dennistoun Wood is not an “alderman of
Dennistoun, Tasmania.” Dennistoun is the name
of his property, which is a few miles outside of
Bothwell, Tasmania. Wood was born there, and
means to die there. He is Warden (or Mayor) of
Bothwell. People thought J.D.W. was too old
even for the Tasmanian Assembly, but he’s the
liveliest and most brainy in the small crowd of
members. The Opposition wants him to become
its leader instead of R. C. Patterson, who’s more
engineer than politician. Wood has renewed his
youth ; the other day he published in London his
first volume of poems. Nominally, he’s half-way
through the seventies.
One lady, who takes a prominent part m
Sydney women politics, is said to have a grievance
founded on a wrong of the deepest kind, against a
very well-advertised politician.
Baronet Rupert Clarke takes himself far
more seriously as a sportsman than as a legislator.
Even the struggle over the Factories Bill, the
fate of which hung on a hair, failed to drag him
into the House of Rich Landlords for a single
division, Rupert being engaged in far more in-
teresting consultations with trainer Scobie and
the men who lay the odds. When the fight for
seats takes place, in consequence of the altered
constitution of the House of Rich Landlords, the
sporting baronet will probably retire gracefully
from the arena that he has so long ornamented
without doing or saying anything.
“T.” : In Melbourne political and legal
circles it is regarded as certain that Premier
Irvine’s resignation will be the preliminary to a
judicial appointment. Old Justice Holroyd, now
75, was generally understood to be only hanging
on to his billet until King Ned took notice of him
in some way, and this little matter having been
fixed up through Irvine’s agency, will leave the
way clear for Holroyd to get off the bench, and
for Irvine to get on. It was noticeable that
directly the Iceberg person mentioned his possible
retirement at the Melbourne Mayoral spree, C. J.
Madden got off a few opportune remarks on the
increase of legal work—a sign that even though
Justice “Holly ” shouldn’t retire, Irvine may fill
up the place vacated some time ago by Justice
Hartley Williams.
It seems that at least one Australian bishop
runs a business as well as a See. His lordship of
Riverina, who has the spiritual charge of many
thousands of square miles of sand and very nearly
a dozen clergymen, has a contract for pumping
water for the supply of South Hay, where he
lives. But he’s giving it up ; probably he is going
in for market-gardening now, and wants the water
himself. Or probably the strain ot finding enough
water to pump is too much for him.
Baronet George Clifford, owner of the
Flaxbourne estate, taken over by the Maoriland
Government for closer settlement, claims £410,000
as compensation. The property came to George
from his father, Charles Clifford, one of the first
settlers in Wellington (M.L.), under the N.Z.
Company in 1843. While in England in 1850 he
took part in the agitation for Constitutional
Government in M.L. On the passing of the
Constitution Act he was elected to the first
Parliament, and became Speaker. In 1887 he
was created a baronet, and after that he was a
rich absentee in England until his death, about
10 years ago.
DISCIPLINE.
Mr. Irvine: “The criticism to which his Government
had been subjected proceeded from the fact that he had
not thought, it necessary to take a certain gentleman con-
nected with a certain newspaper into his confidence and
into his counsels.”
THE BOSS: “Send Mr. Irvine to me imme-
diately."
How far Charles Nicholson, who died
only the other day, goes back in Australian
history may be reckoned up from the fact that
he was a considerable buyer at the earliest of the
Melbourne land sales. He missed the first
two, held on the spot in 1837, but bought
one lot at the first sale of suburban
(Collingwood and East Melbourne) land ; this
was auctioned in Sydney in February, 1838. For
a while he had the idea that Geelong would
knock Melbourne out, and he bought two or
three sections there, paying up to £155 for a
block. Thomas Walker, who was one of his
colleagues representing Victoria in the N.S.W.
House, was, however, a bigger buyer of Mel-
bourne lands ; he picked up half-a-dozen allot-
ments at the first sale—the sale at which Johnny
Fawkner started the bidding and paid £32 for
Flinders and King-st. corner.
The farmer, when the land is dry,
And oats and things decline to sprout,
Implores the Lord with bitter cry
To terminate the cursed drought.
But w,hen the Lord doth turn the tap,
And soak the earth with fruitful rains
The farmer takes his gun, poor chap !
And shoots a bullet in his brains.
Then spake the Lord—“ Since time began,
I’ve rarely pleased the farmer man."


SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by x>ost throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
MOUNTCASf LE & SONS BRISBANE,
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Hardy Brothers,
Vice-Regal Jewellers.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney;
118 Queen Street, Brisbane
(And at London).
Inexpensive
Presents
in enormous variety in
Jewellery, Solid Silver
and Elcctro-plate.
Large selections of goods forwarded to
the country on approval.
C'V
5 utmmm
Penwiper with solid silver base, 7s. 6d.
WHITE FOR LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Aboriginalities.
A GOOD PLACE TO INVEST CAPITAL.
COBB AND Co.’s DRIVRE (somewhere between Hay, Hell, and Booligal): “Did you say, just now,
that your station was worth £50,000?”
“I did, Tom.”
“Well, lookee here, sir, if I had that there property of yourn I’d sell out and buy a hob in
Sheol and get cool for once.”
“Jim Pan”: Rain falls so frequently
now in Broken Hill that some of the residents are
really afraid of growing web-footed. It even
rains between the showers with Big Scrub-like
frequency. The municipal baths have just re-
opened. There were swimming races the other
day. There is talk of forming a rowing club.
A stockman, who recently reached Kal-
goorlie (W.A.) overland from Fowler’s Bay, with
sheep, says that Groperland can’t form the least
idea of the extent of the rabbit invasion which is
in store for it. According to him, rabbits are
within 200 miles of Kalgoorlie, sweeping across the
country like a tidal wave, eating everything before
them, except bluebush, and leaving the land
behind as bare as a floor. The rabbit-proof fence
that was to have kept out bunny and co. has failed
utterly ; it was so badly built that bunny went
through it with a bright smile in dozens of places.
And Groperland, instead of inspecting its fence in
good time, now takes a lingering and unsatis-
factory vengeance by discharging the officials who
ought to have looked after things, but apparently
didn't.
* * * *
A church choir of Ararat (Vic.) was pound-
ing out alleged music one recent Wednesday
night. During a lull in the storm unsteady foot-
steps were heard moving down the aisle towards
the organ. The owner of the footsteps stumbled
into a seat with a noise that made the conductor
think the trap-door of Hades was situated under
the building and the inhabitants were breaking
out. In a few minutes the intruder rose and
approached the conductor. He deposited 2s. 6d.
in small coins on the organ, muttered, “Thash
squarsh me all righsh, boss,” and retired. He
went down the way he came, got lost in the maze
of doors at the church entrance, and returned in-
side again by way of the opposite aisle. He
arrived near the choir again, stood, and asked in
a piteous voice, “Shay, boss, thish isn’t Sandy
Mac’s pub, ish it ? ” He had got lost, wandered
into the church, and paid his beer score to the
organist. That official led him round to Sandy
Mac’s pub. in a Christian spirit that was beautiful
to behold. History does not relate what became
of the 2s. 6d.
* * * *
“ D.” : Kiama is the biggest fraud town in
the States. It owns a blowhole, and its residents
are mostly blowholers. After about 37 residents
who were up for a trip had told me about this
wonder, I took the wife down to inspect it. At
the station there was a sign about the blowhole.
Three photographers’ shops were filled with views
of the blowhole. When I went in to get a drink
and buy a banana or two they said, “Going to
have a look at our blowhole ? Well worth coming
down to see.” We walked about half-a-mile,
expecting to see a spurt of foam three hundred
yards high every minute, but when we got to the
top of the hill could see nothing. Finally, with
the aid of a small local boy, we discovered ten
dejected individuals sitting around a hole in the
rooks. We inquired if it had made a start to
blow, but, taking the mournful head-shakes to
mean “ No,” we sat down and waited. We waited
two hours, then got up and gave a look of disgust
at the hole, and went back to town. The barman
said, “ It’s a pity the hole isn’t blowing to-day ;
isn’t it?” I didn’t answer. He knew in the
morning that it wasn’t blowing. The hole is worn
so wide now that it takes a Dunbar gale to make
it blow. I believe it only blows about every three
months.
* * • •
Bourke was visited by one of the Seven
Plagues rather violently, t’other day. Flies and
mosquitoes began to arrive in clouds on 28th
October, and, by nightfall, had become such solid
masses that half the lights of the town were
smothered out by them.
“Periwinkle”: A school of American
silver-grey squirrels has taken up its abode in Mr.
Septimus Miller’s pretty grounds at Malvern, near
Melbourne, and the animals afford much amuse-
ment by their capers. They are apparently a family
sprung from some squirrels imported by the late
Frederick Sargood, and set free in the grounds of
Rippon Lea, some years ago. The springing
antics of these cheery little creatures are marvel-
lous, and put the native ’possum to shame. They
live on stray acorns and Finns insignis cone-nuts
that abound in the residence grounds around East
St. Kilda. The squirrels rarely touch the ground
in their peregrinations, but hustle for their food
in the tree-tops. The tribe is increasing, for a
nest of young ones has been observed. Probably,
in the end, they will develop into another
national pest, and learn to like other things
besides Pinus insignis.
“Bo h ”
gives a curious
experience:
One simnner
night as I gently
strolled along
St. Kilda beach
with a callow
youth in search
of sea breeze!
and distraction
—I wanted the
breezes, my com-
panion the dis-
t r a c t i o n —w e
noticed a han-
som. It stopped
in front of the
parade seats,
and out of it got
a naval officer in
full uniform and
a lady. And she
was a lady. Clad
in a foamy white
frock, she dif-
fused an air of
the best society
and Parma violet
scent. The han-
som drove off,
and, after sitting
for a while on
the seat, the pair
rose and strolled
towards the Red
Bluff. |Then a
common or gar-
den cab pulled
up, also opposite
the seat, and out
stepped an A.B.
in white ducks.
And the cab de-
parted. The
A.B. in the white
ducks followed
the officer and
the lady, and I
and the callow
youth followed
the A.B. On
went the sailor,
shadowing the
loving pair, and
on wen t the
youth and I,
shadowing the
sailor, who was
showing signs of
great distress,
clenching hi s
hands and talk-
ing to himself.
Suddenly he
flung himself on
the sand, soh-
bing hysterical-
ly, and then I
went lo him.
No sailor - man
ever cried like
that. In the bright moonlight the A.B.’s hair
streamed down over her shoulders, her cap had fallen on
the sand, and the girl—for it was a girl, and a pretty one
too—begged us to “leave her for God’s sake,” which we
did. And now what I and the callow youth—whose
education, by the way, is almost completed—want to
know is—what did the whole thing mean ? Was the A.B.
with the long hair the wife of the officer, or the lady in
foamy white the sister of the little A. 8., or was it the
first act of a Blanolt “drammer,” or the end of a little
every-day tragedy ?
* * * *
“G.H.” : Hotel life in Westralia, if costly
and complainable in the menu department, has
compensating features. One of my most plea-
surable Westralian memories is the spectacle
of a very large, pink mine-manager, clothed in a
ferocious expression and a large axe, chasing
another and smaller mining individual all over a
Kalgoorlie hotel. The large person had returned
on a very hot Sunday morning from a journey
way out in the mulga; and had hastened to the
bathroom—which adjoined his and his wife’s
bedroom —before making his presence known
to the said helpmate. He was in the bath
when he heard sounds of someone being cordially
kissed. Then he seized the axe, which happened
to be in the bath room (all sorts of strange
lumber can be found in W.A. bath-rooms) and
battered in the bedroom door unanimously. As
he sprang in a diminutive mine boss sprang out,
dodged, and ricochetted down corridors and stairs
like a wireless telegram gone mad. The lady, in
a scarlet a,nd green dress, clung for a moment to
her proprietor, not so much out of love as that the
other man might get a good start; but the gentle-
man with the axe cast her off like an exploded
theory and thundered down stairs in pursuit.
After chasing his enemy down to the cellar and
from there back to the balcony ; thence downstairs
again and through the dining-room into the
Erivate bar—the big man’s wind gave out; so he
urled the axe at his quarry, missed him, and
wrecked a £2O mirror, and collapsed on a blue
ottoman. Now that he had thrown away his only
clothing he looked shockingly undressed, but the
barman hastily forced him into a long dust coat
and some bar towels and tied a mat round him,
and so he who had come down dressed in a large
hatchet went up again clothed in things that
made him look like a dancing dervish of the worst
kind.
* * * *
“Nemo”: What is a carpet-snake, any-
how ? Burnt down a box-tree, the other day, and
out of hollow limbs got four snakes ranging from
18in. to 6ft. Was told they were all carpets.
Have got a skin in my possession 10ft. long, the
owner of which was shot while coiled round a
rabbit. This, too, lam told is a carpet. Two
men here, while timber-cutting two or three years
ago, killed a snake 16ft. long (one of them still
keeps the skin). This, too, is called a carpet. I
expect some day to come across a quadruped with
horns, and to be told that it is a carpet snake. A
carpet snake seems to be almost anything.
A MATTER OF INDIFFERENCE.
OVERSEER (offering Jacky a nip): “ Well, Jacky, which you like ’em best — brandy,
rum or gin?”
JACKY: “ Oh, I don’t care, boss, anyone, long as it makes ’em ‘GLAD’ come quick.”
At a recent meeting of the
Jerilderie (N.S.W.) Pastures Protection Board
Rupert Carrington drew attention to the practices
of lessees of public watering places. He said that
some of the reserves were practically useless for
the purpose for which they were intended, viz., as
camping places for the travelling public, and
instanced one where, he said, out of 500 acres set
apart, only 11 acres were allowed by the high and
mighty lessee for public use. A motion expressing
the Board’s protest against the system was lost.
A good many other things are lost in Australia;
especially things that are likely to do any good.
* * * *
A weird contrivance which was going to
revolutionise pearl-shelling was carted north some
months ago, and put to work in Torres Straits. It
was a sort of diving bell, fitted with windows,
wheels, and a rake. The idea was to drop it into
the sea at depths which only the “flash ’’diver will
attempt, and then not for long; and the man
inside was to work the rake and scoop the shells
into a fixed receptacle. The first trouble was that
the wheels were found useless owing to the un-
evenness of the sea-bottom. After that, they put
jointed legs on to the monster; and that was a
very pretty piece of mechanism, only, unfortu-
nately, the legs used to get fast in the rotten
coral. After dropping many thousands in their
experiments the people behind the machine
reckoned that pearl-shelling would have to go on
somehow without it.
WASTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poorest bit of ground
For miles and miles around
Was J. B. Riley’s 40-acre lot.
But all the best was gone
When he came ; ’twas that or none,
So he took it and began to clear a plot.
He possessed a crossbred ewe,
And a nannygoat or two,
A piebald mare, an ancient poley cow,
A dilapidated cart,
That had surely dropped apart
But for rope ; and he’d an old style wooden plough.
Now all round the neighborhood
The land was pretty good,
And each settler had a tidy flock or herd ;
But though great the handicap
Riley didn’t care a rap,
His soul was but to emulation stirred.
You would scarce believe the yield
From his scantily-tilled field—
Wilson’s richest land went thirty and no more ;
But when Riley threshed, ’twas found
Every acre of his ground
Had produced a trifle over ninety-four.
And that ancient crossbred ewe
Did not have a lamb or two
As is usual, but a litter like a sow.
They were pure merinos too,
And the fleeces that they grew !
I regret the weights I don’t remember now.
And Poley had a calf
About every week, and half
Were Devon and the others pure shorthorn.
01 the nannygoats then one
Had pigs; that took the bun
Till the other hatched out turkeys one fine morn.
Then the good old piebald mare
Took a hand in the affair,
With a bright bay foal, and thoroughbred to boot.
’Twas a strange coincidence,
Just the other side the fence,
Thompson’s blood mare foaled a ewe-necked piebald brute.
So J. B. Riley grew
Rich and richer as time flew;
And when neighbors hadn’t cash at their command
He had lots of it to lend,
And it turned out in the end
He invariably had to take their land.
Now he reckons by the mile
His country, and in style
Goes each week to take his seat upon the bench.
He’s especially severe
On petty theft, and here
His virtuous zeal can nothing ever quench.
Yet withal, I’m bound to say,
He’s completely thrown away.
Had he been by fortune differently placed
World-wide fame had sure been his
For the claiming ; as it is,
He’s just an empire-builder gone to waste 1
TOWRAI.
SILVER CHEQUES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The “cobbler’s” cut, and the shearing’s ended,
Away we go with our silver cheques ;
All castle building is now suspended,
Bright expectations are naught but wrecks.
The men on the bikes are sadlv wheeling,
The pace of the horsemen is deadly slow,
Whilst foot and horse are alike all feeling
As most folk feel when the funds are low.
Once Tarwong mustered a hundred thousand
(The old hands say there were sometimes more',
With plenty of bush on which to browse, and
Oarrot and crowfoot in galore.
The whims weren’t creaking late and early,
Or jumbucks waiting their thirst to slake,
And the canvas buckets were used but rarely
When whalers fished in the Tarwong lake.
Flow the staunch old-timer, so gaunt and hoary,
Takes his empty pipe from his drooping mouth,
As again he repeats the same old story
And points with a bony hand due south.
And we gaze on a few dead swamp gums standing
Midst skeletons drear and heaps of silt,
And he tells of the boat and the lower landing,
And islands green, where the wild swans built.
N.S.W.
W. TULLY.


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
casesin six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
TABLE SALT
While common Salt is only a Seasoning,
CEREBQS SALT is a Splendid Food. Used
in the kitchen and at table, it gives
greater strength to the diet and builds up
the Constitution.
Prom Grocers and Stotes.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Ogilvie’s new book of verses— Hearts op Gold,
price 4s. 6d. Posted to any address in exchange
for postal note or P.0.0, to Bulletin office.
THE LADIES'
"Fx + &R ” Watch
at £6 6s.
Ladies’ f-plate
Movement,
Solid Gold Case,
£6 6s.
m
Is a f-plate Lever. Is jewelled in 15 holes.
Has a Ruby Roller Jewel.
Has solid heavy 14ct. gold case.
Has brequet hair spring. Has compensated and adjusted balance.
It is guaranteed for 15 years and kept in order for two years
(breakages excepted) without charge.
It will stand hard riding and knocking about.
It is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS;
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street*
Charles Nicholson, who died in England
the other day (his portrait appears in this issue),
vvas one of the three members for Victoria in the
first semi-reformed Parliament of N.S.W. in 1843.
IRVINE’S POLICEMAN.
As a measure of economy the Victorian Government has raised the retiring age of the
police to 65 years. This is Irvine’s policeman as he soon will be, bearing down on the push.
The retiring age of the push hasn’t been correspondingly extended.
Dr. Lang and Thomas Walker were his colleagues,
Nicholson became Speaker—he was the first under
whom Parkes sat. When the latter wrote his
autobiography in 1890 he could only think of four
other living men who sat in the Parliament of
1854, which ivas Parkes first—Nicholson, Daniel
Cooper, William Manning, and Augustus IHorris.
If Jrarkes was right, there is thus now not one
member of the ’54 Parliament left. Nicholson
filled many other positions at different times,
among them President of the Queensland Legis-
lative Council (for three months), and he did
valuable work for Sydney University. He died at
os
tne age ot 30.
JUST THE USUAL THING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The usual motion of censure was moved in the N.S.W.
Assembly in the usual way by Mr. Carruthers, and the
usual arguments were used by the usual speakers. The
defence of the Government was that it had done nothing
unusual. It had, in fact, acted in the same manner as
had been quite usual with previous Governments. As
usual, the Labor party supported the Government. The
tone of the debate was just as usual, and the matter
ended as usual. The whole thing was tremendously usual.
It was just a fair transaction,
Just a business deal and square,
Though the Opposition faction
Started rumors in the air.
There was nothing wrong about it,
Nothing “ cronk ” and nothing “ crook ”;
It was fair, no need to doubt it,
You could swear it on the book !
(But why should any man croak so
Of Milburn Greek long years ago ?
Now, supposing Thomas Waddle
Wants to buy a piece of land,
And he gets it in his noddle
That one piece will suit him grand,
And suppose that of the d’rectors
One should bear the name of See,
Why should that annoy electors—
What is that to you and me ?
(There’s one thing beats me here, and that’s
Why think of Coonanbara hats?)
It’s a very simple matter,
Though Carruthers makes a fuss,
But we needn’t mind his chatter—
Why should Joseph trouble us ?
If he moves a vote of censure
Half-a-dozen times a year;
Let us lift a modest quencher,
Wish him luck in lager beer !
(And yet somehow this last debate
Recalls the Hornsby land estate !)
“Though the Opposition hoot us,
We are honorable men 1”
Seems to me a chap named Brutus
Must have heard the same thing when
Mark Antonius was cursin’
In a tone of bitter gall.
“He’s an honorable person !”
Said Antonius. “So are all!”
(And so they are 1 Yet I’m afraid
I can’t forget the Mountain Maid.)
It is mean to be suspecting,
And it’s very foolish, too,
When the statesmen we ’re electing
Are so loyal, brave and true !
They are trusted with the dollars,
And their manners, as a rule,
Would do credit to the scholars
Of a Baptist Sunday school.
(In fact, they’re angels minus wings—
But somehow one remembers things.)
It’s a stupid thing to blame ’em,
Very stupid thing indeed ;
If you find a thing to shame ’em,
They will say ’twas done by Reid,
Parkes, or Dibbs. If that suffices
Then no further they may look ;
But if not, they’ll find some vices
In Caractacus and Cook !
(They seem to think there is no blame
If other cusses did the same !)
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
Adelaide Art Show.
THE LATE CHARLES NICHOLSON.
A notable Australian politician of 40 years ago.
The Bulletin’s Adelaide correspondent writes
Sixth “Federal” picture-exhibition in Adelaide con-
tains nothing startling, but, as the governors of the local
Art Gallery have promised to go on spending £250 a year
on their Australian Room, four States have sent in 95
picked works. N.S.VV. is disappointingly represented—
Hansen and Lister-Lister, who were both bought last
year, having sent nothing. Sid Long has his well-known
little girl in crimson velvet, and Fred Leist a clever portrait
of a girl (with no shoulders) in a white boa. Queensland
is found in this exhibition for the first time, and Godfrey
Rivers’ ambitious torchlight-effect in “Prawn-catching”is
about the biggest canvas on the walls. Martin Roberts
has a hill-and-valley impressionist landscape, which has
exactly caught Sid Long’s style (Long’s “ Valley,” bought
four or five years ago, is a bone of contention in the Ade-
laide Gallery to this day). Bernard Hall (bought last
year) has a classical nude which shows some abnormal
muscles, and fails to attract. M'Cubbiri deserts landscape
for a big “Australian Girl” in white. Probably it is a
portrait; anyway, there is nothing typical of nationality
about it. Withers, like M'Cubbin, has sold a big picture
on a previous occasion. Pie now shows “ Still Autumn,”
the Wynne Prize picture of 1901 ; it has a faint and wan
effect, like so much of the Melbourne work. Victorian
women are very strong. Helen Peters puts in a powerful
and painful lamplight effect of sewing women at work,
but the strongest impression is made by Edith Evans,
with heads of a man and an old woman. The latter
resembles one of the alleged Old Masters offered for sale
in London or Paris, and the Board promptly bought it
for £80 (catalogue price). This is the only purchase this
year from the visiting artists, who on the previous occa-
sions have had all the big cheques. James Ashton, among
the local men, has surpassed all his former work with a study
of the reed-beds between the city and the coast, and gets
£75. His son Will, studying in Cornwall, sends out two
small landscapes which show a transition stage with a
good deal of promise beyond. Two little flower studies
by women have been purchased, and a£100 commission goes
to young Power, whose big pictures of draught horses and
cattle teams are a leading feature of every Adelaide
picture show. The experiment seems rather risky, since
nothing he has yet done has been considered quite to
justify purchase, and it would be awkward to refuse
whatever he may offer as the result of the commission.
Tasmania and Maoriland, formerly pretty well repre-
sented, have sent nothing to Adelaide this year.
For the first time for years a couple of
mobs of cattle are coming South alongside the
overland telegraph-line. There is a fairly well-
defined track all the way from Port Darwin to
the head of the South Australian great northern
railway ; but for many years it has only been used
by the teams which carry supplies twice each year
to the repeating stations.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany
H.S.R.: The Bulletin simply quoted the
man’s word3—and they were the language of the ’umble
tenant grovelling to the rich squire. The B. probably
knows more about how that estate is managed than you
do, and it might have been a lot mere violent without
straining the truth. As regards the other matter, one
candidate was against reduction, and the other was for it
under conditions which, he knew, meant indefinite post-
ponement N.J.B. • One bad ; t’other worse ; yet both
have a streak of wild originality about them J.L.C. :
It needs to be an extra good poem about “ Ocean’s roar ”
to get through now. It is such a venerable roar....
Alpha: Kindly and prosy little sermon in verse
J.W.W.: Poem beginning
Hon. G. H. Reid has declared war
Instructed his generals they are duplicate fops
All barriers to freetrade must down chop
reluctantly declined H.T. : Verses about the Dill
Macky row would perhaps make a good music-hall song.
Bob Upstil: The Bulletin’s view is just this: The
man who holds £lOO,OOO worth of land in the country
may be monopolising 50,000 acres, and thereby depriving
5000 families of a chance to make a living. A man who
holds £lOO,OOO worth of land in a city may only hold one
acre, and how many settlers, therefore, is be crowding out ?
The country monopolist is infinitely the worse monopolist.
M.E. (Vic.) : Demurely told, but nevertheless unprint-
able Mutton Bird: We haven’t any use for purely
technical disquisitions T.N.0.: You don’t give the
title Jigger: There would be a pleasing little libel
action hanging to that Peter 3.: You’ve made it
worse, if anything. Our experience is that re-casting—
by the original writer—is mostly a failure.. ..Youghal:
It narrowly escapes being poetry... .8.8. : You mistake
the grotesque for the picturesque... .Myrtle : Not quite
good enough Karewao: Not much of a joke, any-
how. . .P.N.L.: Neither any good R.S.M‘K.: The
metre is bad, and no definite application is made of the
idea Paul O.: No literary merit Ah Kay : Cannot
say how much you might improve. Very crude and
unskilful at present.. ..8.0.W.D.: Far below the mark...
R.M’L. : Hardly worth print J.O.M. : Incident good
enough in itself for a par, but all the setting is super-
fluous Weston: Not well enough put Tavo: Funny,
but formless and awkward.. ..Arlic : Rather inexpertly
handled Helen G. : Sketch just tolerable. Story
stronger, but theme too trite for any but
brilliant treatment Goldi: Too feeble and vague
Sometimes: “ Shaddovv" is good idea, but “silver”
won’t rhyme with “ golden.".. ..George Vere : Nobody of
that name ever edited The Bulletin’s “ Wild Cat
Column.”.. ..Dumps : Too much repetition, but plenty
of humor. May do much better yet J.V.S. : Too
erratic and jumpy Bubbles : A pretty trifle, but quite
out of our line.... Wally N. : Yarn skips about in a
purposeless kind of way....A.F. : Distorted views in-
effectively presented Dido: Appropriately lonely and
disconsolate verse, but quality not good enough....
Molly B. : Symphonious, but silly Woden: “Wooden”
would have been more appropriate.... Irena : Harmless
little twitter Frank W. : Commonplace in conception
and ludicrous in effect Double C. : Yes; but the
people who abuse Nordau for that might as well blame
the barometer for bad weather. To impugn chaiacter
and motive doesn’t in the least invalidate opinion....
W.F.F. : VVill be returned in due course G.M. : Full
of nauseous affectations... .Martingale : Due to the
curious fact that, if a man became eminent for a know-
ledge of, say, chalk, the fool public would, on that
account, accept him as an authority also on cheese....
R. Osmond: Ideas good, but metre very wild....
Hiphen : Will report at beginning of next month —when
the Xmas number is off our chest Whiting : That
page was stereo’d weeks ago, else we would have been
only too pleased.... H.P. (M.L.) : When was that remark
made by The Bulletin ? Or did you invent it as a shriek
of humor ? M.S. : “First Love” declined ; if the girl
was as bad as the poem you were lucky to get rid of her.
....Old Bill; Will attend to matter very shortly
I.M.L. : “Jim West" is as jagged as a row of Alps
Fondant: Has some power and skill, but isn’t wholly
satisfactory....J. Maginnis: Nothing in it Bush-
whacker: Good material too roughly put together....
Tibby : Shows some lyrical faculty, but the ideas are
flimsy J.B.T. : Bizarre and affected Glaucus :
“Lutetia” was the Roman name for Paris, and
signified the City of Mud W.N. : A harsh, discor-
dant note.... Ruff Rydor: Some humor, but other-
wise crude Waldemar : Small literary merit
W.P.B. : Both have some merit, but they lack homo-
geneity, concentration and symmetry.. ..O.D.F. : Lub-
berly kind of verse Sarchedon : Seeking the original
you'land in the grotesque.. . .W.G. : Pretty, but platitu-
dinous Wolfram: Verse not vigorous enough
R.W.D. (Oh. Ch.): You say Riccarton reserve was “ set
aside by our late Queen for recreation purposes," &e.
How interesting ! Are you prepared to swear that the
late Queen ever even heard of Riccarton? As for
your statement —well, we don’t know you, and
you give no address save a postal box. ....
Wallaroo : Your complaint that “ the more luxuriant the
wheat the slighter the disturbance necessary to damage
it ” isn’t a solitary grievance. The more houses you have
the greater the chance of one being burned down, and
the more money you have the greater the risk of
some being embezzled, and the more ships you
have the more risk of some of them founder-
ing. It is a weary world for the capitalist....
Phil Marah : “ Forsaken ” rather craggy in its metre.
Will look up other matter W.B.C. : You are a very
weary warbler.... Aim6e : You mean well, no doubt, but
The Bulletin doesn’t print marmalade about itself....
Tim Mac : You plod steadily on, but never get anywhere.
....N.S.F. : The initials are used to mean “Not suffi-
cient funds.” They apply to your literary banking
account... .Berber: That question has, times out of
number, been answered in the negative in The Bulletin.
.. ..Jas. O’D. : Touch not dexterous enough... .Dad : A
barbaric literary method Wagram : Some time in the
early ’7o’s. You could get the exact date at Sydney
Public Library S. S. Banner: Well, the Statesman’s
Yeah Book (1903) on page 1226 says that San Francisco
had 4875 births and 7008 deaths ; birth-rate under 14 per
1000, and deaths over 20 per 1000. Sydney, with a birth-
rate of nearly 25 per JOOO, and all N.S.W. with a birth-
rate of nearly 28 per 1000, doesn’t see why a ’Frisco paper
should wail about our declining birth-rate and set it
down to “socialistic legislation” and call it “race
suicide.” There are U.S. cities which have a right to
lecture Sydney, but ’Frisco doesn’t seem to be one of
them N.J.K.: Many thanks.. .. W.S.: Of course Aus-
tralia is the Promised Land. It has promised to repay
more loans than any other community of its size
Guzco : Too wildly incoherent... .Peter B. : Complacent
jjg.jog verse about nothing in particular A.W.E.:
Graceful, but too slight R.F. : A fantastic and hys-
terical view of the subject. It is extremists like you
who darken counsel.. ..Brass B.: A fierce discharge of
totally unsupported assertions Goggles: Subject
already dealt with ; no room for anything further until
there comes an article by one of his chums J.T.S.:
One narrowly escaped acceptance Amber: If you do
get on that committee, and succeed in getting it to
put Tub Bulletin on the library table, we’ll send you,
free, one insulting remark : One of our hardest tasks is to
get library committees to exclude The Bulletin on high
moral grounds, and thus aid our blessed circulation... ..
A.8.H.: “ Old Folks ” and “ After the Ball" both ordi-
nary H.T.: “Perhaps” is a purposeless little thing.
Oamp-Bell : Sorry none suitable. v .. Periwinkle :
Your investigation of woman voters’ views obviously
“ made-up,” but genuine inquiry on that line should give
a good par Kiwi (M.L.) :We know all about the poten-
tate of Johore (or rather Jackhore—none of the Joseph
about him) in Sydney.... A.P. : Mrs. Martell has no title
to support as a Senate candidate, except assurance....
j.y.; Yes; a story might be accepted and the fact
not notified at once; but we strive to let con-
tributors know early of the fate of their matter.....
Rispah: You have some good notions and some remark-
ably curious ones—among the latter the suggestion
that Australians should all migrate to Tasmania and
leave this continent alone with its debt G.P.B. .
“Inky Way” ode all whey and no cream. ..Jack b. :
Couldn’t possibly use it.... Don: About three months
ago B.A.C. : The point is so fine that it’s invisible....
Fergus : A dreary desert of words, with one tiny idea-
oasis near the end Mary H. : Well-intended, but
doesn’t quite succeed J.B. (W.A.): A good subject,
but a slatternly style Corax : Such donkey-gallop
verse is ludicrously unsuited to the subject. You don t
write badly, but you’ve obviously no sense of humor.. ..
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Percy B. : One may do as suggestion W.G. : Police-
man joke hardly respectable Jan L.: Handed to
artist, who may contrive to use it as suggestion. Elephant
picture won’t do. “Marooned” not much point....
O.E.L. : Neither any g00d.... Exile (Inverell): Dubious
—very. ..R.M.1.: Drawing very rough... .J.K. (Wes-
tralia) : Figures show a wide ignorance of anatomy in
their reckless disproportionateness of legs and heads..
Snow: Drawings very crude, and jokes unanimously
hopeless.... J.K. (W.A.): It is absolutely no use sending
sketches till you learn to draw —unless your subjects h& ve
point which can be used by capable artists....A.W. :
Drawing medium; jokes pointless C O.: Yes, all
accepted ideas are paid for.
Our Debt to Major Mitchell.
Ernest Faveno writes:
Australia has always been a cruelly martyred country,
subjected to many and various curses which are not of its
own deserving, but which tend to hamper its progress
and damn its reputation. These curses are mostly well
known, such as convictism, imperialism, and the
curse of having been born too late in the world s his*
tory. These are all bad enough, especially the last, but
one curse we suffer under that has not yet been suffi-
ciently protested against, is the curse of our nomencla-
ture. We are branded with the official dictionary. Most
of the names are good enough as names, and there is no
glaring fault to find with them beyond the fact that the
original owners of them had little or nothing to do with
Australia, beyond a shadowy official connection.
MRS. ALFRED DEAKIN.
The Dutch conferred on many points the names of their
captains or those of the vessels they commanded—a
sensible enough custom, to which the west coast still
testifies. The French plastered the names of the first
empire on the land when they got a chance, and those
that survive have no meaning for us.
Cook commenced the game as far as the British were
concerned and New South Wales became our designation,
innocent of all guile as we were in those days. As far as
their limitations allowed, the first settlers showered their
names around without care or thought. Then came the
opening up of the interior highlands, and Oxley, Hume,
and Sturt followed the custom of branding official titles
everywhere they could. Our two largest rivers, the
Murray and the Darling, seem feebly named beside the
Mississippi or Missouri. True, the Murrumbidgee escaped,
but that was because the settlers heard of the river by
name from the natives before it was seen. It was nearly
being called the Brisbane for all that.
Amongst the explorers, Sturt and Mitchell stand
head and shoulders above the crowd, and Sturt is the
first of the two. Mitchell was more cautious. He would
never have led the forlorn hope down the Murray as
Sturt did, an exploit as daring and reckless as any
in the history of geographical discovery. But, strange to
say, while Sturt’s character appears to have a more
romantic side to it than that of the disciplinarian
Mitchell, the names Sturt gave the features of the
country he discovered are commonplace in the extreme,
whilst Mitchell broke new ground in selecting native
names as he could. His names, too, bear evidence of
taste and judgment. No fault can be found with the
Warrego, Maranoa, Belyando and Barvvan—not Barwon
as it is now wrongly called. True he missed the title
Barcoo, and in a mistaken fit of pride called that river
the Victoria ; and when exploring Victoria he did not
display his usual judgment in the Pyrenees or
Grampians, but we are indebted to him for making
an effort to stem the tide of commonplace and set
a good example, which could have been followed with
advantage, late in the day as it was. Unfortunately, it
was not; but what a different kind of nomenclature our
geography would have if the other explorers had taken
trouble with their names. In after years Mackinlay tried
designating places after the native names, but he had an
unmusical ear, and took the names at random. Leich-
hardt, when he blundered through his one successful
trip, had splendid opportunities, but not one creek or
river discovered by him bears a native name. Grey
neglected his chances, and the many rivers in Western
Australia that he named have all official titles. Mitchell
is the only one who showed any kindness to posterity ;
and to him we owe most of the few appropriate names of
Australian rivers, and also a suggestion of what the geo-
graphical nomenclature of Australia might have been.


MB. REID’S CAMPAIGN.
TB ENGLAND GOING TO THE
DOGS?
’ 1) q
t-[ 0 tfiYR-*' Reid . it7^"lA n d i$ Just'
KicKiw ils J*7 loytf
[ A FAITHFUL, QOAT.
A te,e e ra ni from Croydon states ibat on Mon-
I day afternoon Mrs. Hayward, residing at the
I Golden Gate, went ;nto the bush in search of
j a missing goat. Not returning, the police fol-
J lowed her tracks, and found her dead body, over
the goat was keeping .watch.
" 'ten?
H)e
Srf||
M r JAcKW^t-.- T "to K'novv 'fjjA'f' it
Qovemrrjent\ polity m regard -fb ife
StriKe 'tfjA'T it % secure rf e
Conversion
An idol HjaCT
witfj cri | :,ce '
[ op Wfe a/era^ee
‘L, i vp-
pol
"'l fjo^es
'tije AyepAQe. i*
pol'tfc.^h
be V
;y l ' -S:. y^
T Q Y e* IfcbM''" ~ Wonder
j 'better \rj^ K? A Wc^K
for i-r?y Wrow /
SOME POLITICIANS—AND OTHER ANIMALS.


When Dill Macky's Protestant domon-
stration procession started, the Rev Digb
Rerry deliberately peeled off his coat
•• with tho air of a man preparing for any
emergency,_says_the_d rg«s pr
Now that Governor Clarke is leaving,
Melbourne, previously apathetic on the
subject, has developed an enthusiastic ap-
preciation of his genius, and a rapturous
admiration of his character. _
DitiTl° ARE THE PERSECUTED
JJill Macky (on tho flutel _“«K 0 l .
a.r-'wsK^jK
metal, so much 8 Wue
MR. [RVINE.
HIS EARLY RETIREMENT
jhsSJg rVK
V rTCX oul OJ .
(2>lonel <? <34teO-
ydenbdrn (Clidrk-
&L Jr |I ' „ "X>ear -me.
Bk l ) i| Y e been ddoTetl
WMmi alo , -rV TV- ug >Xl &^)r<r&3S
V.eaTTjelJ' fRdnVU W
Teticence \/ou
uR lijL
“Having regard to tho dearth of strong
and courageous public men, and tho im-
portant, work which is still to bo done in
checking the surging tide of socialism, tho
general regret should deepen into some-
thing near akin to dismay.”— Argus.
jSiir
THE Ol.n LaDY.---‘ Don't, leave mo ! don't
leave mo ! Stay and tight tho bull
you have infuriated.” __ „
The Presbyterian Assembly of Victor,*
>» considering the advisability of ,h“
busin^ 01ldUCtln ° itS Reinsurance
rf *S**gS*.
■ -\Je. ■ klW^.Z.^y^-"
60^,^-'^
~S*wK/ Xreg,
*Xv /ke
precaul ion cjV bmr»<£mc£ my
Church W Insurant f o)l
jou Cdnnol harm
me noW» >»
tram« P ri < ; h™ I®'" 8 swun S off
&F%£S&Sg.J££
-^teatassr^*-* 54
David.—“ Yes, gang into retirement
onca Eh, mon, but yo'ro needin' it ii
badly. '
Passengers.—" Hi ’ you've dropped a
man "
Tram Cos “No matter, we've collected
his fare."
VICTORIAN EVENTS.


A. SAUNDERS,
FOR HANDSOME AND USEFUL PRESENTS,
JEWELLERY, SILVERPLATE. LEATHER, AND
WATCHES, CLOCKS
OPTICAL GOODS.
The Bulletin
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE,
Pure Silver-plated on ha rd Nickel Silver,
Beautifully Chased and
Ornamented, 355, £2, £2 10s.
Similar line, 25s and 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated BETTER DISH,
Gilt inside, Glass Drainer, 255.
Other similar styles, 20s, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cut-glass Solid Silver-mounted
KNIFE RESTS, 12s 6d.
Size larger, 15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
White China Silver-mounted
SHAVING CUP, 10s ;
other styles, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated FLOWER STAND,
8s 6d a Pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value CAKE BASKET,
Pure Silver-plated, 21s ; ether styles, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Specially Made by James Dixson and Sons. Famous English
Silver-plated 4 o’clock TEA SETS, £2 15s, £3. £3 10s, £4, £4 10s.
Please Send
for OUR
Illustrated
Book of
Novelties.
POST
FREE.
Gent.’s Companion TOBACCO BOX, Ash Tray, and
Matchbox to hold 3 Pipes, Nickel-mounted, Beautifully
Finished, 27s 3d.
A. SAUNDEES.
Pure PEBBLE SPECS, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d ; American
Gold, 12s tid, 15s ; Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2 ;
Scientifically Adjusted to suit you.
The Bulletin
FLORAL. STAND, Ruby Glass, 12s 6d P*ir.
M
A. SAUNDEKS.
Pure Electro-plated on Hard White
Metal Lunch or Dinner CRUET, 21s.
m
m
i -
1
■
A. SAUNDEES.
Six Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver SEEVIETTE
BINGS, in Silk-lined Case, 17s 6d.
Pare Silver-plated on Hard White Metal 4 o'clock
TEASPOONS, 6 in Silk-lined Case with Tongs, 12s 6d.
Embossed Handles, 15s, 20s.
~~LONDON .t*
Four O'clock CAKE FORKS,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard White Metal. 20s,
255, and 30s ; similar styles, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Hilt Bedroom CLOCK,
8s 6d ; similar styles. 10s 6d. 12s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s, 22s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid English Oak-mouuti (1 Silver-
plated on Rai d Metal
DINNER GONO, £2 os.
w
E
'W
%
A. IS SUNDERS.
Baby’s Pure Silver RATTi E,
very useful, 4s 6d ; extra heavy, 5s 6<l.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Handsome Silver-plated Rainbow
Glass JAM DISH, 20s ; other styles, 12s 6d, 15s.
Solid Silver CHRISTENING CUP, 30s
Extra Heavy, 355, £2 2s.
Silver-plated, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A -SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK, Silver-plated,
nicely fluted, 12s 6d ; leaf design, 8s 6d.
A. BAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated on Hard WTiite Metal
INKSTAND, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value Silver-plated on Nickel Silver
ENTREE DISH, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Baby’s BRUSH, with Silver Name,
Very Soft, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hot Water KETT LE,
Beautifully Chased and Engraved,
Pure Silver Electro-plated,
England’s Best Make, £2.
Embossed, £2 10s, £3 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s Pure Silver SHAVING BRUSH
and SOAP DlSH,
in Silk-lined Case, £2 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Gent’s SHAVING- BRUSH, 5s 6d ;
Extra Mounts, 7s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver
BUTTER DISH, 12s 6d.
Second Quality, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver
BUTTER DISH, 20s ; size larger, 255.
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES, First-class
Lenses, good effect, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255. 30s,
£2, £2 10s, £3, and £4 10s to £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Shell-shaped
BUTTER DISH and KNIFE, 12s 6d.
Larger, Al duality, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated JAM SPOON and BUTTER
KNIFE in Silk-lined Case, 8s fid.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ivorvette
SERVIETTE RINDS,
Pure Silver Initials,
Is Each.
5s 6d Half-dozen.
SSSi
urn
yas
■msm
-f
•a -•*- ;yy - t &
■BawNWiiß
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral Crown Derby China BISCUIT
BARREL, Silver-plated Mounts, 255.
niiiniiiiiiiiii^
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted CARVING KNIFE, FORK, and STEEL ; they are made of the Very
Best Steel, securely riveted, hand-forged and finished, in a Silk-lined Case, 15s.
Four-Gup EGG FRAME, with well for
4 Extra Eg'gs and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated
on Nickel Silver, 355.
Gent.’s Leather ROLL, containing 2 Hollow-ground
Razors, Corn Knife, Nail Scissors, Tweezers, 20s, 2os;
similar witli i Razor only, 15- s -
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
AND OPTICIAN,
809,811,813,815 GEORGE-ST.. SYDNEY
W f * .RAILWAY STATION.)


The Bulletin
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiul and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton
England.*
THE PIANOLA
y
dip
t
f~\ at
*s.>
J»r
K>
S3
V>
WHAT
IT
MEANS
TO
YOU.
The Pianola enables you to play your piano at once though you may
never have played a note in your life.
Would you not gladly pay £6O to be suddenly provided with the ability
to play the piano perfectly, and to retain the ability without constant and
arduous practice ?
If you will write us, we will mail you free our Catalog “ B,” explaining
how this is done.
The price of the Pianola is £6O for prompt cash, or £65 on moderate
monthly payments.
You do not have to buy the music. It is supplied for a small annual
charge from our Circulating Libraries.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
323 George-st., Sydney. 185 & 187 Collins-st., Melbourne >
TARPAULINS,
Canvas
Cotton Duok
Patent
Waterproof
Cloth.
ALL HAND-SEWN.
_ . ~
CART, WAGGON and
MACHINERY
COVERS.
AT SPOT CASH
PRICES.
Estimates Sent by
Return Post.
SEND FOB LIST.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd.,
7 & 9 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
mFZ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’®
Cure for Gout,
liheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA,
The Bulletin
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
*
A
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Sole Makers: M.BEETHAM&SON,CheItenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grim wade & Co., Melbourne.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prizo Medals.
The Bulletin
These series
of Pens neither
I scratch nor spurt
They glide over
the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Works: Birmingnam, England.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using: CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posled to any State, ss.
d. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing. _
The Country Workers’ Funeral.
All attempts to make Victorian legislators realise
that the workers in the country districts are as
fully entitled to Factories Act protection as their
brethren in the towns, seem to be utterly result-
less. A weird tradition has grown up to the effect
that, while the boot manufacturer and the cigar-
maker, for instance, can and should pay their
employees a decent wage, the farmer, who is sup-
posed to be engaged in a “natural” industry,
can’t get along without under-paid and sweated
labor. This ridiculous notion was pandered to in
the old Factories Act, which expressly excluded
all rural industries from its operation; and
Parliament stands firmly by the ancient de-
lusion. Yet those well competent to judge
contend that there are no industries more in
need of legislative regulation than those con-
nected with the land. More especially is this
the case with the alleged “great” dairying in-
dustry. Whenever this industry is mentioned there
is a roar of indignation—from the land owners, and
it is scornfully asked whether the Act is to provide
for cows that will only need milking six days a
week, and whether it is proposed to limit the
labor of the farm-hand to eight hours per day.
These insane queries are only evasions of the real
point at issue. Cows must be milked seven days
a week, and early and late each day ; and the
farm-laborer is quite prepared to do all this
cheerfully— provided he is properly paid for
his work. That is the crux of the whole position.
If the farm-laborer were given a decent wage, say
(is. per day, he would be able to marry and settle
down and become a useful citizen. At present he
potters along on anything from 7s. 6d. a
week and found, and is rarely more than a float-
ing, irresponsible nuisance to his district, in a
social way. He can’t marry, but he is the father
of the unmarried girl’s baby. As to the ability of
the industry to pay decent wages, there should be
no two opinions. When dairymen can give up to
£3 5s. per acre per annum rent, for grass land, it
is no use contending that they can’t pay honest
wages. Probably, after paying fair wages, they
couldn’t pay quite such atrocious rents, but that
is a vastly different matter, and of no interest to
the farm-laborer, though it is the secret of nearly
all the opposition to the extension of the Fac-
tories Act countrywards. And, apart from the
farm-hand, there is another class of country labor
that is underpaid all over the State. There are,
in Victoria, some 300 butter factories and
creameries, as well as several cheese and bacon
factories. All of these establishments are, for the
mysterious reason already mentioned, allowed to
have Freetrade in labor, with the usual disastrous
results to the laborer. Even the managers of
such concerns are usually underpaid, but the worst
cases are to be found in connection with the minor
billets of butter-maker, engine-driver, and ordinary
hands. These men all work seven days a week,
mostly at a wage, for the ordinary hands, of 30s.
or less, while the engine-driver and butter-maker
may get 35s., or in exceptional cases, £2. Then
there is a lower grade still—the unfortunate con-
tract managers of the creameries. Most factories
let the management of their creameries either by
tender, or at a fixed lump sum. A typical adver-
tisement lately asked for a creamery manager at
£168 per annum. For this sum the unfortunate
man was expected to run a creamery for 365 days,
employ a man to help him, find his own wood (for
the engine), horse and waggon, and cart the cream
seven miles every day to the factory. This case—
which is, in fact, a favorable one—occurred in a
district whose factories publish balance-sheets like
these—the latest
Butter Sales for
12 Months. Profit.
Colac £104,000 £2517
Camperdown .. .. 81,370 1805
Glenormiston .. .. 56,222 1756
Cobden 54,194 1518
The rottenness of the situation is accentu-
ated by the fact that, apart from the Western
District, the majority of the butter fac-
tories and creameries belong to Melbourne
firms, such as the Fresh Food Co., the Melbourne
Chilled Putter Co., Wood and Co., and half-a-
dozen others, while most of the cheese factories
lire proprietary concerns, generally owned by big
Undowners. These are, to a great extent, the
‘country producers” whom the Government and
i arliament are so fearful of hurting.
The Art Position in N.S.W.
In the discussion on the N.S.W. Education Esti-
mates this year there was some pertinent criticism
of the State’s system, or want of system, of subsi-
dising Art, and Minister Perry promised to make
a radical change and have “a satisfactory
scheme ”, ready next year. The N.S.W. Art
Students’ League is responsible for this promise,
which, if carried out, will crown long labors with
a^‘ 11 ® venieil t. N.S.W. has made the instruction
°r o public in almost all things a matter
of State interest and State subsidy, and
is, therefore, as well justified in subsi-
dising the teaching of picture-painting as
of chemistry or letters or any of the
numerous subjects grouped as technical education.
Put the money spent, so far, has been mostly
wasted—divided between the Sydney Technical
1 • i?t two wrail gling art societies, each of
which had too much to do scratching at the other
eat to perform any useful work. With a view to
reform, Education Minister Perry recently insisted
on the two wrangling societies amalgamating or
else losing their subsidies. The only practical
result was to bring the row under one roof, and,
t° r all Es unctuous satisfaction in now being
dubbed a “Royal” institution, the N.S.W. Art
Society is as inept and useless a body as ever. It
inspires no confidence in students, and the nature
<>f its teaching can be judged from the fact that its
instructor was, last year, paid only £92 6s. lOd.!
1 hat represented the actual sum spent on tuition,
though the State subsidy—voted for tuition and
tuition alone—was £800. From the pupils the
society obtained as fees £180, and the total
expenses of its classes —excluding rent —were
£154 11s. Id. Evidently the money voted by the
State for education was mostly put to some other
i?qo * lhe nn sweated instructor, with his
£92 6s. lOd. (in Sydney a tailoress has a minimum
uage of £1109 a year !), cannot be expected to give
good service to 291 students. The N.S.W. Art
Students’ Union claims, with justice, that the
Sydney student is deprived by the Art Society of
any chance of genuine instruction, and shows the
lesult as compared with the system of another
(apital, Melbourne:
With the exception of Air. Frank AIahony, whose
natural genius has enabled him by great labor to over-
come obstacles which no other Sydney man has been able
to surmount, Sydney-trained artists are almost wholly
unknown outside New South Wales. The South Aus-
tralian Art Gallery has purohased from artists in Victoria
and N.S.W. works to the value of £1357 ss. Of this
amount £862 ss. was expended on nine works by artists
trained at Melbourne, and £SO 10s. on two works by
Sydney-trained artists. No Victorian art gallery contains
an example of a Sydney-trained artist’s work.
Sydney National Art Gallery, for pictures in the Aus-
tralian section, has paid to Sydney-trained artists, £1913
12s. ; to Melbourne-trained artists, £1946 Bs. ; and to
artists trained abroad, £4661 9s. If art students were
asked which paintings in the Australian section of the
N.S.W. Art Gallery afforded most assistance to them in
their studies they would probably say those of Streeton
and Longstaff. But for the effects traceable to the
influence of Melbourne-trained artists, the paintings of
Sydney-trained artists in the National Art Gallery would
be devoid of merit. Intrinsically, the Melbourne painters’
work is as valuable as the work of British and foreign
trained artists resident in Sydney. Of all work in the
Australian section of the Gallery it shows the most
serious attempts at solving difficult problems in painting.
It has those qualities without which no work can be of
permanent value—namely, sound draughtmanship and
knowledge.
Further, as showing the way in which the public
money has been spent by the rival cliques of
artists, acting through their societies or the
trustees of the National Gallery, these facts,
cited by the Students’ Union, are valuable :
John Longstaff was paid £55 for his admirable “ Por
trait Study of a Lady in Black,” which, when exhibited
at the Royal Academy, was highly commended by
the late Leighton, and £65 for a portrait of Henry
Lawson. Julian R. Ashton was paid £250 for a portrait
of a late statesman, smaller than the first mentioned of
Longstaff’s pictures, and £l5O for a figure study.
The plain fact is that, in the matter of art
instruction and of art purchases, the N.S.W.
Public Treasury has been made the victim
of various cliques of artists, and it is time
that the system was stopped. A thorough reform
is called for both in regard to the Government
subsidy to instruction and the Government
purchases of pictures. The scandal of running
into the National Gallery portraits of living per-
sonages—more or less celebrated—for personal
rather than for art reasons is one of the symp-
toms of the mutual back-scratching which has
infected the N.S.W. art system. One artist
friend paints Premier Parkes, and, of course,
Premier Paukes goes in at a big price. Then
Dibbs is Premier, and he has an artist friend, and
his portrait goes into the gallery. Premier Reid
comes next, and Heaven alone knows why N.S.W.
has not had, in its National Gallery, Premier Bill
Lyne and Premier John See, done more or less after
the traditions of Chinese portraiture. A portrait
of Education Minister Perry did appear to hold
a threatening hand over the community a few
weeks, but, praise to the Fates, the danger passed
away. N.S.W. Parliament should insist on cen-
tralising Sydney art-education at the National
Gallery, and at the same time seeing that the
trustees of that Gallery are independent and
knowledgeable enough to give the public good
value for the money it votes for art-purchases
and art education.
♦
A quaint person named Craig, who is one of the
pillars of the Empire Navy League, writes to the
S.M. Herald about cotton-planting in Australia :
Knowing that cotton was being “ringed” and
“ trusted ” in the Southern States of America, that the
mills of Lancashire and Lanarkshire were almost stopped
for the want of the raw fibre, and that £1,000,000 had
been subscribed by Bjitish mill-owners for the purpose
of growing cotton in unknown and untried rivers in
British Crown colonies and protectorates, I wrote the
directors of several companies at home, but whilst they
all recognised the suitability of Queensland for cotton
culture, they would not risk the investment of money
owing to the socialistic legislation of the Labor party.
This is either dull ignorance or invention. The
Labor party never had a majority in Queensland
Parliament, and hasn’t got one now, so it has
never been and isn’t now in a position to carry
socialistic legislation. If the quaint Craig and
his alleged directors didn’t know this, it was
dull ignorance. And, anyhow, if any such
directors did write so stupid a thing, and
Craig didn’t reply that they were laboring under
a misapprehension, and that the Morehead, and
MTlwraith, and Griffith, and Nelson, and
Byrnes, and Dickson, and Philp and other
Ministries which have bossed Queensland abso-
lutely for the past 15 years have been all anti-
Labor Governments, then he has, by his silence,
deliberately deceived large British capitalists.
Knaves and Fools.
When one knave falls a victim to another knave
honest men can afford to stand aside and watch
the game. In Philadelphia recently a man was
accosted by a well-dressed youth in the street who
handed him a hundred-dollar bank-note, saying :
“Sir, you have dropt this!” Now the man had
drept nothing; but seeing the bank-note, and
believing that a mistake 1 ad been made, he took
it from the youth, thanked him for his honesty,
and him with five dollars. After
gloating a few days over the accident by which he
had profited ninety-five dollars, the man took the
note to a bank to change it, where he was
promptly arrested for uttering a forgery. He
was detained for over a week, to his great loss in
time, money, and dignity, and finally, to clear
himself, was obliged to disclose the real facts of
the ease.
Serve him right, you say. Why certainly.
Not only was he a knave, but he lacked skill to
distinguish the true from the false, and was
swindled in consequence.
If I enter a shop and ask for a bottle of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, and the shopkeeper offers me some-
thing else instead, that shopkeeper is a knave and
takes me for a fool. Very few shopkeepers are
guilty of such practices ; they are, as a class, as
honorable as any other: but, unfortunately, no
trade or profession is without its black sheep.
A false medicine is more harmful than a false
bank-note. For thirty-five years Seigel’s Syrup has
been the favorite family medicine in sixteen of the
largest countries in the world, and is an unrivalled
cure for indigestion and all the numerous com-
plaints which accompany or arise from that
disease. “It was proved by doctors,” says Mrs.
Cheetham, of Winchester Road, Rand wick, near
Sydney, N.S.W., “that I was suffering from
general debility, nerve exhaustion, bronchitis,
asthma, and malnutrition —a formidable list of
complaints. My condition was terrible. I spent
nearly five years in trying various patent medi-
cines, under private doctors, and attending hospi-
tal, but obtained no relief until I took Seigel’s
Syrup. A short course of that medicine effectually
remedied all my complaints, and I have since
remained well and strong.”
It lias been said that this would be a dull world
without knaves and fools —that both are as neces-
sary to the balance of society as sharps and flats'
are to harmony. But nobody can afford to allow
knavish tricks to be played with their health.


PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERT, 89C Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
[ennon’s Hotel, Brisbane,
Has been Re-Furnished throughout and will be
conducted as a FIRST-CLASS HOUSE. Its
central position recommends it to Commercial
Men and Families. Trams pass the door —a penny
section to any part of the City.
S. M. COLLINS, Proprietor.
SPECTACLES
The Bulletin
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellouslv-aeeurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to—
H* A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George=St., Sydney (opposite Strand Area de
1(1
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
The Bulletin
CS-O TO HELL-
HHH.ANIi for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eitzabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 312
Bourke-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, S.-HIY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
VALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Unionism, it is claimed, has nearly
doubled the wages of tailoresses in Sydney.
The last vessel which will ever leave
Queensland to import niggers from the South
Seas sails this month. After that, the traffic
will consist solely in the return of Tommy Tanna
to the place where Providence deposited him.
Speaking of the Immigration Restriction
Act at his recent meeting at Adelaide, Kingston
said that he would gladly make the undesirables’
test even more severe. He suggested that the
reading of a page of his own (Kingston’s) hand-
writing would about fill the bill.
The threat to petition the British Govern-
ment against allowing the Commonwealth to take
1000 square miles for a capital is quite in accord
with N.S.W. historical character. It petitioned
against Victorian separation, and besought the
Queen not to assent to Queensland's attempt to
dismember “its natural territory.”
“ Thank goodness,” said Premier Seddon,
in one of his recent bursts of frenzy, “I have
never yet heard a Maorilander express the desire
to have a navy of our own.” It is fortunate for
Britain that it isn’t like Seddon. If it had never
had a desire for a navy of its own somebody
would have burned London before now.
Bruce Smith, in a recent speech, wasted a
lot of time in clearing his character from a charge
of sending his children to R.C. schools. The
time might have been much better spent in
explaining how he happened to be a violently
Freetrade Minister who gave large Protection to
nearly 50 industries, and then pointed to the
results as a proof of the blessings of Freetrade.
NEXT WEEK, OR A YEAR OR TWO HENCE-EMPEROR ALFRED DICTATES
TERMS TO THE POWERS.
The time might come when we might be able to make commercial treaties as an Empire.
—MR. DEAKIN, at Toowoomba.
There is still nothing so very bad to weep
aboutin the Commonwealth’s population statistics.
The increase of population in the last two years
was 111,370. N.S.W.’s population increased
during the one year 1902 by 28,180—the largest
increase since 1892. Federation, or the Six
Hatters, or something, seems to have given the
N.S. W. population increase quite a vigorous lift.
The inquiry into the irregularities in the
N.S.W. Chief Secretary’s department has already
resulted in four persons being criminally proceeded
against, and other charges are said to be pending.
The late Principal Under-Secretary must be some-
how responsible for the prevailing chaos. Yet
his mana was so great that nobody would have
dreamed of overhauling his department during his
lifetime.
Theo. Fink is again endeavoring to get
through Victorian Parliament his Bill to allow
legal practitioners of other States to practise in
Victoria, provided the other States reciprocate.
The idea is a good one all round. When legal
sharks wander all over Australia to appear before
the various courts it will help the railway revenue,
and when there is a railway accident there will be
a fair probability of at least one shark being killed.
H. H. Fyfe in the Nineteenth Century :
The presence of aliens has transferred certain areas of
the East End (London) into entirely foreign quarters.
Out of these areas British workmen are driven, either by
landlords, lost to all sense of decency or patriotism, who
find they can screw more out of the alien than out of the
native-born tenant; or else by their natural repugnance
to neighbors whose standard of manners and living can
only be compared to that of a not very particular pig.
This has the double effect of excluding a large number
of natives from the districts where they have been
accustomed to work, and of introducing into these dis-
tricts a state of overcrowding far more dangerous to
health, and far more prejudicial to public decency than
would exist if we had the native population alone to deal
with. •
Howl of mock fury by George Reid :
What a fine sample of loyalty it was to shut out honest
British workmen !
Now, who was shut out ? And how does the clap-
trappy fat man know that any particular British
workman is honest or otherwise ? And why did
he, when he was Premier of N.S.W., shut out
“honest” British subjects unless they could pass
an education test, if he feels so bad about little
things like that ? , ' |
These few United States immigration
statistics for August, 1903,,are presented to those
cheerful lunatics who how] at the alleged severity
of Australian legislation. During that month 810
persons were debarred from entering the country,
of whom 55 were paupers, 156 diseased, 6 convicts,
7 polygamists, 1 idiotic, and 95 contract laborers.
Yet, despite this ruthless discrimination, the
high-tariffed country gained 64,977 of population
by immigration in that one month.
The newly - enfranchised voters aren’t
taking any ambitious sister-woman as their
Senatorial representative, seemingly. At a
meeting of Sydney Women’s Political League,
t’other night, the letters of two N.S.W. lady
candidates, asking for support, were received
with frozen disfavor, and a motion re “selecting
and supporting some woman for the Senate ” was
received so coldly that the meeting had to stamp
its feet to restore the circulation.
London Times on the Australian attitude:
At any rate, we believe, nothing can alter such patriot-
ism as the Commonwealth displayed during the late war.
But the history of that outburst has yet to be written.
It was a spasm of intense feeling, preceded by—and likely
to be succeeded by—a period of growing indifference to
things outside the Southern Pacific ; and all through it,
like the voice of a sort of devil’s conscience, the bushman
heard his Bulletin murmuring persistently, “ Yes, yes,
you’re a little excited now, but you’ll get over it, and
then you’ll see what a fool you have made of yourself.’’
No Briton likes to think he has played the fool rampantly,
and the Australian is already uneasy about his recent
behavior.
And, now that it is plain that he fought the Boer
farmer in order to flood his country with Chow
labor, has not the Australian good cause to be
“ uneasy ” in his conscience ?
Interesting and instructive to note, apropos
the charges of corruption made in New South
Wales Assembly,
all run back to the
was no payment of
members either
paid themselves.
that the incidents
days when there
members, and
went unpaid or
The “Upper Forty-Six,” who overlook
the work of the M.L. House of Reps., came in for
some hot criticism lately when Tommy Taylor fired
off a speech against the “ forlorn creatures ” in lan-
guage dipped in brimstone. Seddon, as usual,
defended his blessed appointments, and declared
that if the Upper House was aged and incom-
petent no one could blame him for it. Then
members looked up the appointments and found
that Seddon was responsible for 26 of them.
The Sydney papers have been full of
complaints of the shocking way the Federal
Government had compiled the electoral rolls, and
ascribed the alleged chaos to the inherent
depravity of the Deakin Ministry. Yet the West
Sydney electorate revision court, held to rectify
any omissions, resulted in exactly TWO persons
coming forward to claim insertion on the roll and
the West Sydney electorate comprises nearly five
State electorates, and represents some 25,000
names !
Miss Yida Goldstein, who is standing for
the Senate, told a Prahran (Vic.) audience last
week that she. was a Protectionist but wants to
sink the fiscal issue so that more time can be given
to domestic and social legislation. If Miss
Goldstein doesn’t realise that high Protection—
the finding of work and wages for the people —is
domestic and social legislation, then The Bulletin
is disappointed in her. “Social and domestic
legislation ” is the art of bringing about a fairly
equal distribution of the comforts of life. Pro-
tection is the art of having some comforts to dis-
tribute. You may make a country rich by Pro-
tection and forget to provide for the fair distri-
bution of the wealth; and, again, you may pro-
vide for the distribution of wealth and forget to
provide the wealth. -Also, you may enact that
nobody shall be overworked in factories, and
forget to provide the factories. Protection can’t
be dissociated from social and domestic legislation.
EGGS AS CRITICISM.
“ The audience presented me with a basket of
eggs.”
“In what condition?” “ Well — er — critical .”
N.S.W. Premier See :
As far as State and Federal rights are concerned, I am
not prepared to give one scrap more power to the
Commonwealth Government and Parliament than is con-
ferred by the. Constitution Act.
Mr. See run's the N.S.W. Parliament on cat-and-
dog wrangle-and-scratch lines. Under his leader-
ship it has shown an absolute incapacity for useful
work. But he won’t consent to any other body
taking over the work which it won’t do. A
typical dog in the manger.
Opposition-leader John Darling, of S.A.,
heaved a boomerang when he launched his motion
for the reduction of the land-tax by a farthing.
Faced with a threatened deficit of about £20,000,
independent of the chronic Northern Territory
shortage, the Government has set out to get the
money mainly by increasing the railway rates on
coal, coke and ore—in other words, chiefly from
the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., of which John
Darling and his legislative friend and protege,
H. C. E. Muecke, are the S.A. directors.
A member of Sydney Labor Council is
responsible for the suggestion that the difference
between the tender of the State Clothing Factory
and the successful private tender, for the railway
clothing contract, is to be made good out of the
funds of the Employers’ Federation. Certainly
the employers have a very solid interest in
enabling a private firm to cut under the Govern-
ment factory, so as to show the superiority of
“private enterprise,” and bring the State-owned
shop into discredit. The suggestion isn’t wildly
improbable.
John Forrest raised a roar of laughter dur-
ing his Adelaide meeting. He told the audience
that during May, 1897, Acting-Premier Holder
offered to join W.A. in building an overland rail-
way, although it would have cost S.A. £2,000,000.
“That’s just like Holder,” commented old John
Darling. Forrest continued that the proposal was
declined by his Government, adding : “ We were
both hard up ;we had no money.” “ Oh, Holder
had plenty,” sneered Darling. “No,” said For-
rest, “Holder was as tight as I was.” Now
Holder was never tight in his life.
Lately it was reported that Yic. Premier
Irvine had exhibited a large quantity of backbone,
when a deputation of tax-dodging landholders
went down from the Loddon water trust to inter-
view him about writing off another £3OOO of their
unpaid interest. Irvine, it was said, had an-
nounced firmly that he wouldn’t forego a shilling.
But the backbone has apparently been boiled
since then, for it is now announced that, as Sliiels
is alleged to have given some sort of an under-
taking to write off £2OOO, the other strong man
has agreed to see what can be done in the way of
allowing these rich landholders to further swindle
the country.
The present trend of N.S.W. politics:
The more canny of the direct followers
of the See Government will gradually
secede to the Opposition and at last
leave, on Sprnf? ‘ critical division,
only the Labor party to vote
for See-Owe’Sullivanism. The
Labor party can then go to the
country bearing the whole
burden of the present misman-
agement. The Carruthersparty
will come back from the elec-
tion so strong that it can do
without the Labor members,
and it will cheerfully tell them
to go to Sheol and put their
programme in the furnace.
Then it will start Kyabram-
ming.
A few honest folks in Tasmania want to
have their votes counted in the election of Sena-
tors, and claimed it would hurt their consciences
to vote for any sort of a piebald candidate. The
Labor party found it had to nominate three can-
didates for the Senate, otherwise no Tasmanian
could have recorded a straight vote for White
Australia. There are a full dozen candidates,
more coming, and they advocate all shades of pie-
bald and various degrees of wobbles, but the only
unmistakably clean white candidates are the
Labor men. Labor’s three Tasmanian candidates
for the Senate are a carpenter, a manufacturer,
and a journalist. The last-named (Milner Mac-
Master) was for years at the head of Devon
College, and is said to be the clearest and best
public speaker in the State.
Two States are at last thinking hard
about getting rid of the Legislative Council
incubus. In M.L., Seddon, asked if he would
help to make the Unnecessary House elective,
told the Reps, that he hadn’t any idea of
strengthening it, but he had very serious ideas
with regard to getting rid of it altogether.
And in South Australia its early abolition is
pretty certain —it drove another nail into its
almost-finished coffin when, the other even-
ing, it tossed out the Bill for reassessing land
for the purposes of the land tax, and thus
forced the Government to put up railway
rates, starve the road vote, and make another
cut at the civil service—already about the-
ntost miserably paid in Australia.
Tims Mr. Spruce Myth : “ The Aus-
tralian people are not displaying the courage
of their ancestors in meeting all-comers in
the national race for life.” Well, our Pro-
tectionist British ancestors —the people of the
Peninsula, Trafalgar, Waterloo, Blenheim,
Oudenarde, Malplaquet, and very nearly
every other big fight that the Smith party
brags about—were a pretty good lot. Since-
Britain took to Freetrade its biggest event
has been the Boer war, in which it took
three years to man down a nation that wasn’t
equal to the population of Sydney. Free-
trade seems to have wrecked the Briton as' a.
fighting man. Let us imitate our ancestors —
Smith's Protectionist ancestors.
How business is done in N.S.W. Assembly.
Last session the Free Education Bill of Griffith,
M.L.A., was left unfinished Owing to muddle and
“ jaw.” The other night:
(1) Griffith moved that the House should resurrect the-
Bill where it left off. General excitement. Talk. Divison.
Carried by 63 to 8.
(2) Griffith moved that sufficient of the standing orders-
be suspended to allow of the Bill being put through its-
remainirig stages at one sitting. Ruled out of order.
(3) Griffith moved that the standing orders be so far
suspended as to allow of a beginning being made with.
the Bill. Excitement. Debate. Moved that there
should be no more debate. Division. Carried by 51 to 37.
(4) Dick moved that Griffith be no further heard.
Division. Defeated by 73 to 13.
(5) Griffith moved that there now be a division on his
motion (referred to in paragraph 3). Division. Defeated-
by 50 to 39.
That left things practically where they were.
More crocodile tears by George Reid :
Suppose that England shut out six Australians from
her shores, and passed an Act to stop Australian ships-
trading in British waters, wouldn’t it be icie for England
under such circumstances to talk of undying friendship
for Australia? And yet Mr. Deakin, who was doing all
this sort of thing to Great Britain, claimed support on.
the plea of his loyalty to the Empire.
The first part of the statement is, of course, an
implication that Australia shut out six English-
men (the famous Six Hatters), and as they weren’t.,
shut out the statement is, by implication, a
shabby slander. Also it is an implication
that Australia shuts British ships out of
Australian waters, which is a he by in-
ference. As for the possibility of Eng-
land shutting out Australian ships from its
shores, England does much worse things than
that already. It declares that an Australian is
unfit to be Governor of his own State. It shuts,
out Australia from all share in the government of
the empire. And Australian laws are subjected
to the veto of a Parliament in which Australia,
has no vote or voice, which is flat despotism and
an outrage on every principle of Constitutional
government.
THE FINANCIAL
TROUBLE.
Signor Rosano, Minister-
for Finance in the Italian
Government which came
into office about a week
ago, has committed suicide with a revolver at Naples.—
Cablegram
The poor man, on his appointment, opened the
public safe, took one wild look at the deficit, and
then decided that death was better than finance.


•PALING'S BEST TRIO
(vfr »jSj|
ft**:
9>o
VICTOR
STEINWAY
LIPP
WE GIVE BEST VALUE for LEAST MONEY.
OLD PIANOS TAKEN IN EXCHANGE.
CATALOGUES FREE BY POST
dal[N£!»
" 338 George Sr Sydney.
CONSUfIPTION
VERSUS
VITADATIO
Another Victory for the Great
Herbal Remedy.
READ MR. RUDDOCK’S TESTIMONY.
192 Elizabeth-street, North Richmond,
Melbourne, April 22nd, 1901.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Dear Sir, —It affords me very great pleasure to let .you
know what Webber’s VITADATIO has done for me. Two
years ago last January I was brought home to my wife
very’ ill; a very peculiar feeling came over me, which
caused me to become quite helpless. My wife sent for a
doctor ; he ordered me to be painted with iodine. This
was done for seven weeks, and he (the doctor) then
ordered me to the Alfred Hospital. After being there for
two months, the doctor sent me home, stating that I was
too weak to go under an operation, and said that I must
go for a trip in the country. I did so, and returned
home slightly better; but after a few days I became much
worse vyitb pneumonia, and after suffering six months
between life and death it was decided that I should go to
the Sanatorium for Consumptives at Echuca. My wife
interviewed the lady secretary of the Sanatorium,
stationed at Kew, and, after examination by the doctors
they pronounced me a fit patient for that institution, as
I was full of consumption, but that I could not get in for
a fortnight, as there would not be a vacant bed till then.
At this time, Mr. Campbell, grocer and wood and coal
merchant, of Vere and Nicholson-streets, Abbotsford, and
now of Fairfield, urged me very strongly’ to try Vitadatio,
which I did. The first upset me very’ much, but
by r the time I had finished the second bottle I was able to
get out of bed, and on taking the third bottle I felt so
improved that I decided not to go to the Echuca
Sanatorium. My 7 wife took that message to the secretary
to that effect. I continued with Vitadatio, and after
taking nine bottles I was able to go to work, so I called
on Mr. Wallbridge, carrier, Lincoln-street, North
Richmond (my last employer) and started at once, and
have been there ever since. I do very heavy work
delivering coal. I feel strong and healthy, and can truth-
fully say that Vitadatio has saved mv life, and the least I
can do is to hand you this testimonial. It is one year
and eight months since I took the last bottle of Vitadatio.
I have lived in this locality for many 7 years and am well
known. I will give further information to any’one calling
at m.v above address as regards my illness and cure by
Vitadatio, and you can refer to any of the undermentioned
names, who are quite prepared to substantiate my state-
ment.
Yours faithfully,
THOMAS O. RUDDOCK,
E. Ruddock,
28 St. Phillip-st., Abbotsford.
A. Starr,
Varian and Hunter-sts., Abbotsford.
Bamueii Eadley Hambleton, Bootmaker,
382 Smith-st., Collingwood.
Alex. C. Kennedy, Family Grocer
(45 years’ standing), 390 Drummond-st., Carlton.
J. Campbell,
Bastins-st., near Fairfield Station.
Tnos. Wallbridge,
38 Lincoln-st., Richmond.
for further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street «ZV r «,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is S/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Oonnell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
“ B.” from Melbourne :
Say, Sydney, we don’t want your Dill-Macky. Take
him back and drown him in the harbor. On a recent
Saturday evening I was strolling around Bourke-street
way, and every couple of yards I was falling over a police-
man. Some of them looked at me with a suspicious eye,
and then when I scanned them suspiciously I could see a
baton up each man’s sleeve. Also there was a crowd
gathering, and a lot of respectable-looking middle-class
people were wearing red, white, and blue rosettes.
“What’s happening?” I asked a policeman. “Dill-
Macky.” Now, when I was in Sydney, I got
to know that one of the disadvantages of Har-
bortown was that there Dill-Macky was continually
happening, but I never expected him to happen in
Melbourne. Then I wandered round into Exhibition-
street, and along to the Protestant Hall, on which the
Grand Old Flag was flying. There was a great crowd
there, and a small regiment of mounted troopers. I went
up to a man who looked like a Luther or Knox or Calvin
dressed up in present-day clothes, and wearing a big
rosette. “ Say, what’s all the row about?” “ It’s them
accursed Romish dogs,” quoth Calvin. “ What are they
doing?” I asked. “They’re doing nothing,” he says;
“ but, if they could, they’d assassinate Dr. Dill-Macky,
who has kindly ” “But,” I interrupted, “wouldn’t
it be a good idea to get rid of a pest like him?” Then
Luther began to fume, and he called me a Romish dog,
and I told him I was a Buddhist—and left.
FOR CONSTIPATION.
For Constipation there is nothing quite so nice
as CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and LIVER
TABLETS. They always produce a pleasant
movement of the bowels without any disagreeable
effect. Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets
are “Just What You Need.” Sold everywhere.*
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late IHPERIAL),
Corner of GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is something: better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
SOUP FACTS about
The Callaghan Special
BOOT FOR MEN.
The Facts are :
SOLES—SoIid oak-tanned stout walking soles,
stitched on a Goodyear machine, with best
Irish Flax Thread, warranted not to rip open.
UPPERS—Uppers and vamp are out from plump
skins and are not skimped in any way.
LINING—A good grade of leather.
The inner sole is milled perfectly
smooth on the surface and free
from nails, creases or thread.
HEELS.—Square trimmed,
Size, 1 inch, properly
nailed.
Wl‘- Ji
16/6
A
PAIR
TAN LEATHER, 17/6
POST
and
DUTY
FREE
17/6
In Tan, 18/6.
To any address in the Commonwealth, except W.A.
You will find this Boot in wear to be the Cheapest you ever bought.
CALLAGHAN & SON, *95 ceorce st., Sydney.
Satisfaction given or money refunded.


Seems that only teetotallers need apply for
the job of Chairman of Committees. Cann
(N.S.W.), Catt (S.A.), and Jackson (Q.) take
nothing stronger than coffee.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-streec.
Fremantle & Albanv Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
NEW ZEALAND AND AFRICAN
STEAMSHIP COMPANY, Ltd.
STEAM TO LONDON VIA. SOUTH AFRICAN PORTS.
The Magnificent Twin-Screw Steamship
SOMERSET, on or about 14th NOVEMBER.
11,000 tons; J. R. BARTER, R.N.R., Commander,
will be despatched on or about NOVEMBER 18,
taking Refrigerated and General Cargo,
at Lowest Current Rates.
Has Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-
Class Passengers.
FARES—SALOON, South Africa .. £2B 7 to £3O
THIRD \
CLASS/
London .. 40
South Africa .. 13 13
London .. 17 17
For full particulars apply
BIRT & CO., Ltd.,
Managing Agents,
7 Macquarie-place.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
The Bulletin
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3NT.S.-W.
dlont deplete fl>|. Co., [td.
. (Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74.
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT El). “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,354
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
£693,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Miner., W. B. Alford-
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Bukns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jkssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Faiu.ane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Faliquiiau. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP JL90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. :
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
Pe Dank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Phi)p&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Resel l e Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 000 ... £350,000
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ~ .. ... „. 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund 1,315,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,315,000 0 0
Directors :
lion. Oti as. It. Mackbllar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator Jambs Thomas Walkbr.
lion. Rkginald James Black, M.L 0.
William Alfred Cottek, Esq.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uthbr, Esq
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji ; and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Hono ulu, and the West Indies.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debenture#',"'and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Rank also issues Letters of Credit and Circular
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping.
HXT. 3D. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS ROOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
S.S. PRINZ SIGESMBND, 3300 tens, 9th DECEMBER.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about 20th NOVEMBER,
SUE VIC, PERSIC, RUNIC, and MEDIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURiME
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBI MS,
Queen’s 2 b 5 Tamnifield Parade
ST. KILDA.
fIIHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
QCBA.KTIC
THE
ST E A. IVX S H X P
A. AND AT LINE.
EAST MAIL
COM PAKTY.
LINE.
Sydney to Auckland .. .. .. 3J days.
Auckland to Pago Pago .. ~ .. 4 davs.
Samoa to Fanning Island .. .. ; 4 davs.
Fanning Island 10 Honolulu .. .. days.
Honolulu to San Franei co .. .. 5J davs.
Overland to New York .. .. .. 4“ days.
New York to London .. .. .. 6 days.
Passengers can break the journey en route.
The Bulletin
No
Elaborately appointed staterooms for occupancy of not more than TWO Passengers.
Stea /«onc th \ 6 pa , ! r J' ter Shi|ls ’” S : erra, Sonoma, Ventura. The N" WEST, LARGEST
“ jXf.PJv,T I.ri? D ONLV STEAMERS having twin-sorews with two sets of
IJMJJcjIitiN DiiiiM I Ho.
fares to any destination as cheap as any other first-class line.
Send for Illustrated Matter, including New Publication, “If Not, Why Not?” Post Free, 3d.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
' —TII.IS —.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dt rectors:
Hon. J F. Bubns, Chairman ; lion. C. J. Roberts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bliucrc Smith, Esi|., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, 1:2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305 - assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Head Office:
119 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General .Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, Georg'e Street.
Four per cent. Stock friiaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND
The Bulletin
Soda Water id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs,—The machine purchased from you is per-
fection. Tim Stuff turned out is Splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers. —Geo. Niciiolls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says :—“ Profits saved by
making" my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay tiie rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “ I have made
thousands o? dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says “It is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says :—“ Since getting one of
your Machines, and making our own soft stuff, I have
saved ifys price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says:—“Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says :—“ Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says :—“ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland,says:—“Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business aivaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
a good quality of Aerated Waters. Observe the Profits.
Call and see these machines, or write for circular describ-
ng them, also Price List. Prices Reduced.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co-
-4U7 COLLINS-SIREET, MELBOURNE.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
The Cheapest Route to America
and London.
The Route to St. Louis Exhibition
and to London via St. Louis.
Via Brisbane or New Zealand, Fiji
and Honolulu, Victoria, and the
Canadian Pacific.
THE TOURIST ROUTE OF THE WORLD.
STEAMERS SAIL—
Nov. 30. Dae. 28. Jan. 25.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con=
venient and Healthy Locality.
/lodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“Don’t shout
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
' I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
How >' Oh some-
thing new - The Wilson
Common-sense Bar-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can'i see them
they're invisible. 1 wouldn't
know I bad them in myself,
only that I hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
.working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vict Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CttAl-HtgS, 229-231 Collins Si., Help.
HYPNOTISM.
PERSONAL MAGNETISM, Etc. By our system you
can learn this wonderful Science at home. It enables
you to cure Diseases, Bad Habits, such as DRUNKEN
NESS,, win Reluctant Affection, create amusement, make
friends and money, and gratify your highest ambitious.
We absolutely guarantee success. Our book on Hyp-
notism, Personal Magnetism, etc., Richly Illustrated
throughout with Photos from Life of Persons Hypnotised,
is the finest, work of its class ever issued, is intensely in-
teresting; and has been the means of starting thousands
on the road to success. Send for Book, post free, and
test for yourself this remarkable power. The American
| Institute of Science, Victoria Buildings, 6 b Elizabeth-
> street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE '
ADELAIDE
port pirie
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping’at Fremantle
toall North Western Ports
S.S. Gabo,
Friday, Nov. 20, at 5 p.m.
(Transhipping at
Melbourne).
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, Nov. 21,at 10 a.m.
(Without Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
Townsville
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Innamincka, Nov. 21,
at Noon.
S.S. Gabo, November 28.
S.S. Allinga, December 4.
Ttest and Cheapest Ho ate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MKLBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO. BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
POUT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EV Eit v UO.N V ENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHCHITIS,
DLAKBHQSA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28 1895, says:
«if I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say CRLOitODVNK. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
LADIES 3
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Te. 1198.
( HE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
* Transformations you ever
saw from 21 - each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
680-682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
J. LANDES,
108 Pitt St., Sydney.
The Largest and most reliable House in
Australasia for Automatic Machines and
Novelties of every description.
The biggest Money Making Machines for
Hotels, Refreshment Rooms, Tobacco-
nists, etc., always in stock, and each
machine guaranteed.
The following' are some of our best-known Machines
in use :
The “ < 'hallenge ” Punching Machine—ld. Slot
The Novelty Pool Table Machine .(game skill)—3d. Slot—
nays value in goods.. •
The Austfaiwt v —o Slots'Spots arid P. Machine—3d.'Slot'
'iivs value in. A'odcß. - - .
The Monte Carlo—s Slots Machine—3d. Slot—pays-value
in goods. . . . -
The Electric Pocket Lights, with extra recharge, iedueert
fi-Oni its. to’ lOsi 6d,
All Goods shipped freight paid.
£3Four Illustrated, Catalogue free on application.


DIARRHQCA.
Diarrhcea, in its first stages, can be cured by a
few doses of that pleasant, reliable, and effectual
medicine, Chamberlain s Colic and Diarrhcea
Remedy. In many instances one dose is sufficient,
but as a rule three or four doses are necessary. It
is a good thing to keep in the house. Get abottle
to-day; it may save a life. Cost only Is. 6d, and
sold everywhere.*
Patents for Inventions. — Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
Touching the comedy of “ Monsieur Beaucaire," does
anyone remember that when Napoleon Bonaparte, aged
19, thought of becoming a novelist, he published “ The
Supper of Beaucaire,” a crude performance (though not
without signs of talent), for which the printer was never
paid, owing to lack of public support? When, later in
life, Nap. took to writing military bulletins, he proved a
brilliant Hedonist.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developesa lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Charles Arnold has been telling London Era that both
he and his wife are getting dreadfully tired of rural
felicity in England, and long to return to the footlights.
The Bulletin’s Christmas number will
be issued on 10th December. The Bulletin’s
Christmas number has been good in the past.
This year it will be better.
Homes and Land for Private Sale.
Grand Compact Station Property.
5271 ACRES. Good Homestead.
T17EI.L watered with Creek and Tanks, with first-class
’’ catchments. There is a stack of Hay, and the
country looks lovety.
STOCK.
760 flock ewes and 400 flock lambs (fit to wean by middle
of December). 465 stud ewes and 122 stud lambs.
300 stud ewes to lamb this month. 7 stud rams,
5 selected rams, 51 flock rams. 25 cull rams, SO fat
wethers. 4 draught mares, 1 harness mare, and 2
saddle horses. 1 cow and calf, 1 buggy, 1 sulky,
harness to each. 2 wool presses, etc.
All furniture, including piano, bedding, stores, etc.
Price, £810 0. Easy Terms.
Full particulars—
HUGH DUFF & CO.
'j
Auctioneers,
283 GEORGE ST.
CNGINEMAN’S MASTER KEY. —All subjects
“ relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 305 Pages, 106 Illustrations ;
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also COLE’S,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
References throughout Great Britain and Colonitt.
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
R liefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Ha v Fever patients. Es-
tablished I*B3. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address; Dlt P. HAROLD II AYES’ ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE,
Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A.
FISHER & CO.’S HAIR RESTORER,
‘PJIFJI’S HAIR’
(Trade Mark).
The Bulletin
A gentleman has sent
us the following:—
“A few weeks ago I
bought a bottle of
.vour ‘ Papa’s Hair,’
and it has acted with
the most satisfactory
results. Previous to
doing so my hair had
a mousey color
streaked with grey.
The dear children
would try to count
Papa’s gre y hairs, but,
because of the num-
ber,could not succeed.
Being only 44 3 r ears of
age, I determined to
improve my hair, and
tried your ‘Papa’s
Hair, ’ and am pleased
to write that, though
at first there seemed little difference, gradually the hair
regained its original color, and is now strong and glossy.”
This Preparation is not a Dye, but acts gradually
on the Roots of the Hair, and Restores Grey Hair
to its Natural Color and Lustre.
No Preparation will make Hair grow better than
“PAPA’S HAIR.”
It effectually prevents the formation of Dandruff, as it
is called, the presence of which always denotes diseased
action in the cuticle of the scalp, causing premature
baldness or a falling off of the hair.
Directions.— Well shake the bottle, and, with a small
piece of sponge, rub into the roots of the Hair, night and
morning, till the Hair is restored to its natural color ;
afterwards apply twice a week.
3s per Bottle ; by Post, 9d extra,
FISHER <3c CO.,
Manufacturing Chemists,
837 GEORGE ST. (nearly opp. G.P. Office), SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
55., P. 0.0. or stamps.
s. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ G. ZEIMDIHMIDG-lE] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
i onntry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
WE
WILL CURE
YOOR
ASTHMA
OB RETURN
TOUR
MONET
LANE’S ASTHMA CURE
Has been pronounced by “ The United States Health
Reports,” the official authority on sanitary subjects, to be
tue only scientific remedy lor this disease known to the
medical profession. It is
GUARANTEED TO CURE EVERY CASE
of Soasmodio Asthma or Bronchial Asthma, and we give a
printed find signed guarantee to refund the purchase
money of the dure in full if it fails to cure.
Send for particulars and a copy of the guarantee; we will
post them to any address without charge.
The Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOLLOWAY S PILLS
*//
THE PILLS
nave gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Heaoache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill health
known as “ run-down ” or “ out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
> 4f
v
c
and OINTMENT
Day Shirt, from 4/-
St ■■■"■■
Tennis Shirt, from 4/6
/ERTEX CELLULAR BU |TshR|RTB.
Full Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
D. BRAHA.M & 00.,
73 & 75 KINQ STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agent in N.S.W.
I F YOU WANT IT
CET IT WITH A
KODAK
0 u Mtmmkaz+iriafi.
£'?i ’> 4 J6
Wiff'- I '' fev'> ;> :
£ ,: vr "
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
UF A! t DEALERS OR
or KODAK L™
§ MENTION THIS PAPER I
RfINZ JOSEF
\ the best natural
t Aperient- wafer.
RfINZ JOSEF
I the best natural
'Aperient* wafer.
RfIHZ JOSEF
i the bes! - natural
I Aperient 1 water.
RfIMZ JOSEF
j the best- natural
) Aperienh wafer.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored
Four Weeks by using
IQ'S RI CORO’s
|e.sS6** cE °? \.l F
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBIUTV,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 128., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne; N.S. IF.--Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Hotelkeepers! Make your own SODA WATER
WITH
Eckersley’s Improved Aerated Water Machines
* ODA WATER costs lid. per dozen.
LEMONADE, GINGER BEER, GINGER
&c., Cc., 4d. per dozen.
Owing to the number of unscrupulous imitators attempting to exploit a
trade which by virtue of the superiority of our machines we hold, we desire
to point out to intending purchasers
(1) That our machines are used solely by His Majesty’s Australian
bquadron, after an exhaustive trial, in which other so-called aerating
machines competed.
(2) That on all the Victorian Railway Refreshment Rooms, after careful
trial and examination, our machines were unanimously selected for
the excellence and purity of the aerated waters produced by them.
(3) That t.ie leading Hotels and Clubs throughout Australasia have dis-
T , carded all other makes of machines and have given ours the preference.
(4) Being by far the largest importers of Pure, Natural, Liquefied Carbonic
SKng'suS?of'”l,“^. MUrB l ° P "“ haSelS ° f out “
A few of the hundreds of users of our machines are given below, and
they will be pleased to furnish inquirers with their opinions thereon
The Flagship of the Australian Squadron (H.M.S. Royal Arthur).
George Talmage, Lessee Victorian Railways Refreshment Rooms at
Geelong, Ballarat, and Melbourne (Vic.).
John Rowan, Railway Refreshment Rooms, WarraguT, Sale, and
Traralgon (Vic.).
J. P. Rowan, Commercial Hotel, Leongatha (Vic.)
R. G. Drummond, Victoria Hotel, Hamilton (Vic.).
S. J. Carberry, Sportsman’s Arms Hotel, Star of the East, Murchison
(W. A.).
Thomas Barclay, White Cliffs (N.S.W.).
J. J. Kahl, Tattersall’s Hotel, Blackall (Queensland).
Descriptive Catalogue and
Full Particulars from
also Manufacturers of Small Machines fcr Gafts, Confectioners and Private Use.
EQKERSLEY & SONS. 214 Queen St M Melbourne, Vic.
At Poverty Point.
" Beth ” : Thus “ 0.K.” on two great singers (Bulletin
15/10/’03): “ Comparisons drawn between Melba and Ada
Crossley are absurdly unfair to the greater singer,” &o.
“O.K.V’par as a brief for Melba as a woman, boiled
down, is a suggestion that the contralto should not be
loved as much as she is, inasmuch as she is still unspoilt
and lovable, and that the soprano should be loved more,
inasmuch as her lovable qualities have been dissipated
and she was “ long ago hardened.” Also that Melba is
really a nicer woman than she appears to be, be-
cause she tries to be and fails, and that Crossley, being
naturally nice, is consequently less nice than Melba!
In another “Poverty Point” par. “0.K.” says: “One
gets so tired of hearing that Ada Crossley is a good
woman. The same advertisement was uttered on behalf
of Antoinette Sterling, but it carried no weight, because
.... she was fat.” Does “ 0.K.” believe that Ada
Crossley is not a good woman ? Or does he mean that
she is a good woman, and is compelled to remind the
public of this toisupply some deficiency in her singing?
And anyhow, why is Madame Sterling dragged in ? And
was she good because she was fat, or fat because she was
good, or bad because she was fat, or good and fat
accidentally, or fat because she was bad? Anyhow,
Melba did not make people out here love her, and
Crossley does.
“A Flab": Concerning “J.A.O.’s" remarks (B.
29/10/’O3) on Ada Crossley and sacred music, it is
surely a mistake to select music from the operas
in order to illustrate what contralto music really
is. As a rule, operatic music has been written
for phenomenal voices, and in some cases the part
almost disappeared with the singer. For example,
the extremely high music written for “ The Queen of
Night” in Mozart’s “ Zauberfloto ” was written for a
special singer, and when she retired the opera had to be
shelved until Carlotta Patti (Adelina’s sister) and lima de
Murska came along with their three-octave organs, and
gave the great work another show. In “Un Hallo in
Maschera” the music for the contralto, or rather second
soprano, runs up to B in alt, long-sustained notes, too;
and the same can be said of the second lady’s part in
“ The Huguenots,” and that of Maria in the “ Daughter of
the Regiment.” As for sacred music, that is a
sort of musical Mrs. ’Arris—there is really “no sich a
person (or thing) at all.” Set to suitable words, the
“ Cujus Animam ” in Rossini’s “Stabat Mater” would
make an excellent love song, and the duet, “ Quis est
homo?” could easily he fitted into “ Semiramide ” instead
of the “Giorni d’ Orrore,” while the ‘‘Salve Dimora”
from “ Faust ” would make an excellent offertorium for
the Mass service if suitable Latin words were arranged
for it.
A CONCERTO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hush ! Straying fingers on the ivory keys,
Wayward and fitful as a summer’s breeze,
Send down the shivering silences a web
Of pulsing notes and broken chords that ebb
And flow in tangled rhythm ; then a cry,
Monotonous —and, ere the echoes die,
There comes the music of a strange, wild song—
A ghost of melody—that from the throng
Of wandering sounds breaks forth, and thin and clear.
Like a bird’s call that o’er some moon-lit, mere
Wakens the night—wild as a cloud’s swift path
O'er wind-whipped skies, above a sea of wrath.
A song so shapeless, twisted, almost vile,
Yet all-alluring as a siren’s smile ;
Plaintive and pleading as a wind that shrills
At twilight in a land of mist-wrapped hills.
Then one long note that, like a sob of pain,
Thrills to the very centre of the brain.
The wailing echoes madden as they throng
Swift on its piercing path—and then the song
Flows on. But now, all other thoughts above,
The burden of its melody is Love.
But Love primeval ; Love uncivilised ;
Love almost monstrous, unidealised.
A theme some Cave-man of a long-dead age
Might to his mate have sung ere yet a page
Of the Great Book of Time was read and turned,
While in a strange-starred sky a live moon burned.
Heavy with sorrow and vague half-felt fears,
Yet speaking nothing that could move to tears,
With even rhythm now the clear notes fall,
Thin, yet persistent; as ’neath willows tall,
Through damp, dank mosses runs the trickle cool
Of water dripping in some fern-wreathed pool.
Now in a mist of sound they seem to fade,
Drowned in dim echoes that themselves have made ;
Then the whole wearied cadence sinks to rest,
Hush 1 One last echo stirs on Silence’ breast.
N B.W.
CHARLES E. HOWELL.


The Excuse
Made by many a man for taking a drink at the
bar is that he needs a bracer. He feels weak,
his stomach is “out of sorts” and liquor makes
him “feel good.” The tired man who sits on a
pin leaps up with new
energy, but no one would
say that this energy was
evidence of the strength-
giving power of a pin. So
with the energy induced
by liq uors. They only
Stpur the body on, but do
not strengthen it. Strength
is made from food properly
digested and assimilated.
When the stomach is
diseased there is a failure
to extract the nutrition
from food, and the body
grows weak. The weak
body needs strengthening,
not stimulating. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
cure diseases of the stom-
ach and the other organs
of digestion and nutrition,
so that the nutrition of
the food is perfectly extracted and assimilated,
and the body nourished into health and strength.
These pills are a perfect blood-purifier, driving
out uric acid and all biliary poisons from the
blood. They cleanse the stomach, put life in the
liver, a move to the bowels and thereby are a
positive and permanent cure for constipation,
biliousness, sick headache, piles, pimples, boils,
skin diseases and all disorders arising from im-
perfect indigestion, and impure blood. Packed
in amber bottles, and sold throughout Austra-
lasia.*
The Bulletin
At the end of May, 1903, John Walker and
Sons held in their cellars at Kilmarnock, Scotland, two
million six hundred and sixty-eight thousand five hundred
and eighty-five gallons of their famous whisky.*
Operations will be very soon commenced at
Manly by the “Water Chute and Amusements, Ltd.”
The principal attraction will, of course, be the great
Canadian Chute itself, but in addition there will be a
“Camel-Back Toboggan” and a “Fiery Dragon”—a
miniature railway, contrived to represent a monstrous
dragon. Liberal musical entertainment will also be pro-
vided, and it is intended to have Skater v. Skater, Cyclist
v. Skater, and Toboggan races, for prizes—such as proved
so attractive at Adelaide.*
Woman’s most natural ambition is to look as
sweet as possible. And that thisambition maybegratified
toitsfullest possible extent, a wise individual invented the
P.D. Corset. The new P.D., as everyone should know,
creates a contour in keeping with the requirements of the
prevailing fashion, giving the wearer a perfectly graceful
and artistic figure—“the bust well forward and the
shoulders well hack.” This is the ideal figure in the eyes
of Modern Culture. And as every right-thinking woman
strives after the Ideal, it follows, as a matter of course,
that the perfected P.D. is displacing old styles of corset,
even in the most conservative circles.*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE ... LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES = DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Melbourne people are wanting to know what
was the “ game ” of the police who organised the so-called
raid on Wren’s Tote, at Collingwood. Nothing came of
the “ raid ” except public contempt for the absurdity of
it. Nobody was arrested. Wren’s business proceeded as
usual within eyeshot of the police, who occupied the old
premises, and Wren presumably continued his friendly
relations with ’tecs in general and some ’tecs in par-
ticular.
Meanwhile, the legalisation of the tote in Vic-
toria seems further off than ever. The illicit machine
which works in a mysterious way, yielding enormous
profits to the original Wren (and to sundry parasite specu-
lators who pay Wren’s prices) is practically under the
protection of the law. It continues to flourish more
and more, merely because the racing clubs are prohibited
from setting up a respectable tote which would
deal fairly with the public and the charities.
A large percentage of Wren’s income is drawn from
punters who don’t even get a run for their money. The
tote swallows up all the money “invested” on non-
starters, and the prices it returns for “ win and a place”
are absurdly unsatisfactory, under the conditions. If the
ordinary, uninformed punter were not an ass he would
soon get tired of betting with Wren on the “all in"
principle, by which he is tempted to lose his money on,
perhaps, two, or four, or six non-starters before he has
the luck to find a winner at 10 to 1. Congratulating him-
self on the “ splendid ” odds of fifty bob to five, the
average ass punter forgets that he has sacrificed many
previous shillings in vain attempts to spot a runner— let
alone a winner.
* * * •
That Sydney betting-shopkeeper who eloped
without paying up was originally a newsboy. From that
he worked up to being a sort of newsagent, and then
■worked agencies in flowers, icecream, lollies, and other
street lines. Next, he became a betting-shop tout and
then a full-blown “ bookie.” He is said to have got away
with about £IOOO.
* * * *
“J.A.C.”: The welcher is getting a little too
strong at suburban pony-meetings. The other day, on
the “ outer-outer ” at Kensington, a “ lucky ” punter, on
going for his money, was kicked on the jaw, and
told, “ There, you’re pyde ! ” Ticket-snatching is too
common an occurrence to call for special notice.
* * * *
History repeated itself when Billali won the
Williamstown Cup on Monday, after getting well beaten
at Flemington on the Saturday. Last year Vanity Fair
and Eleanor lost a lot of money for the punters on the
fourth day of the V.R.O. meeting, and then went to
Williamstown and dead-heated for the Cup.
** * *
Owner “Bob” Phillips and his friends are
quite persuaded that Abundance’s disappointing display
in the Melbourne Cup was due to bad luck. A reserve
price of 1750 guineas was put upon the four-year-old when
he was offered for sale last week, but the bidding stopped
a long way short of four figures. The public “form” of
Abundance this season is still a very disputable question.
When he beat Wakeful and Ibex at Caulfield there were
others—Postillion and Emir—which shared the same dis-
tinction, and nobody can deny that the subsequent
running of Postillion and Emir discounted the apparent
merit- of Abundance’s one win. It will be interesting to
see what the Sydney and Melbourne handicappers make
of the big horse if he is entered for the autumn cups.
** * *
“San Remo” : Please crack this nut for me.
Two horses, Optimist and Jo.vance, dead-heated for the
Hopeful Stakes, rim at Eagle Farm. Self, chum and
another pal attended thereat. I put £2 on Optimist at
evens, and chum laid £5 to £4 ; pal invested £1 on
Joyance, getting 4 to 1. My ticket was pencilled £4,
chum’s £9, and pal’s £5. Owners agreed to divide.
Bookies called “Divide! divide!” and proceeded to
halve face value of tickets with punters. I got back my
£2. Pal received £2 10s. and chum £4 10s. of his
fiver. Now, how can this be right ? We three backed
winners, or, rather, J winners. I won nothing, pal won
305., and chum lost 10s. Query: Is a bookie a thief,
swindler, or pickpocket,- or merely an honest man
afflicted with mental aberration? We argue that unless
a horse loses, a bookie has no right to put a thieving
finger upon a punter’s stake. For a dead-heat he must
pay out half the amount which he would lose if that
horse had won, together with the stake. According to
the laws of justice I. Mo swindled me out of £l, pal of
10s., and chum was robbed of £2 10s. Ohum in particular
is tied up in a knot. He backs a winner, and Ikey scoops
10s. over the transaction.
** * •
Dick Brad field’s system of training horses to
stay rather than sprint seems to have been very effective
in the case of old Combat. Until Bradfield took charge
of him a few months ago, the son of Carnage had never
gone further than 11 furlongs successfully, though he was
several times tested over a longer distance. At the
recent V.R.C. meeting Combat’s lean neck came to the
fore in a couple of 12 furlong races after he had finished a
respectable fifth in the Cup. One always thinks of him
as a gee-gee that needs a course of Sandow exercises to
put muscle on his neck.
* * • > ' «■
At Y uille’s sale of thoroughbreds in Melbourne
last week 25 out of 37 lots were knocked down to buyers
for markets beyond Victoria, anyhow. Several of them
will leave Australia. There isn’t much Vic. money for
racers except among the little group of capitalists who
support Scobie’s stable ; and they were not taking any
at this sale.
** * *
Sydney Grafton filly Graft, who won Victorian
Club Handicap, at Caulfield, Saturday, after a desperate
finish with Avalon, has shown remarkable form down
Smith. Within past several weeks she has secured
two races at Flemington, one at Sandown Park,
and one at Caulfield, and her party must have profited
materially in consequence.
*♦ * *
Scobie’s scoop through V.A.T.C. and V.R.C.
Spring meets didn’t reach amount anticipated through
his opening successes, still it was substantial, totalling
£7668 (£4950 at Caulfield and £2718 at Flemington).
Information concerning money expended by that stable
in entrance fees, forfeits, sweeps and jockeys’ remunera-
tion would be interesting.
Printed that Wakeful’s winnings rank next to
Carbine’s. But Wakeful never had a Melbourne Cup
haul to swell her accumulation ; also when Carbine
succeeded in securing that prize it was nearly double
present sum. Owner M'Donald’s good judgment in, some
time ago, refusing £6OOO for his remarkable mare has
been amply endorsed ; he has since made that in prize-
money, and stud possibilities are big.
* * • *
Poor display by and heavy loss on Crick’s
Ossian and Oblivion in Melb. Cup (former of whom was to
win “ by a street ”) has apparently stimulated rather than
checked their owner. His trainer has been instructed to
put a lot of youngsters by Positano (bought at recent
sales) into work straightway, which means that
W. P. C. will be up to his eyes in the turf game ere the
season closes. At the time of the purchases ’twas
thought and printed that buyer purposed sending his
newly-acquired neddies to the S’African market.
Something refreshing. Told- that a Granville
(N.S.W.) resident, who drew Wakeful in Melb. Cup sweep,
wired owner (L. M'Donald) an offer of £3OOO to nothing.
Mr. M‘Donald declined, with thanks, and added that the
mare was a sure starter and would nearly win. A £3OOO
offer usually brings a bluffing demand for another thou-
sand, otherwise no start.
* * * *
Running of M.L. Derby, the other day, reminds
that only thrice (1885, 1888, and 1900) before in 26 years
did Mr. Stead fail to start one of his horses. Altogether,
he has won 11 Derbies, and had horses in places ten
times—only twice did his reps, run unplaced. Owner
(Mr. George Clifford) of second (Treadmill) this year has
often tried to win the race, but failed always.
* * * «
Ikey Mo.’s gains must be huge in Westralia
when he can afford to pay 70gs. license fee at big meets
and 20gs. for odd gatherings. If it didn’t pay him he
wouldn’t stop, as Ikey never allows patriotism to interfere
with pizness.
* * * *
Winner (Roseal) of M.L. Derby brought 78gs.
as a yearling.
* • * *
Good winner (Australasia) at recent Otaki and
Wellington (M.L.) gatherings was once “hacked” by
General Babington and then sold to a blacksmith, who,
after failing to get a race out of him, parted with the son
of The Australian for a trifle.
* * * *
Apropos horse racing, a Queensland Parliamen-
tary committee recommends that the minimum racing
distance should be j-mile and the lightest weight 7stone.
* * • *
Yankee exchanges record that champion trotter
Lou Dillon’s mile, in 2min., wasn’t allowed to stand long.
Cresceus had a cut at it last month and brought figures
down to 1.59 J. Lou Dillon people aver that she can, and
will, ere long, cover the journeyin 1.58, which is a second
better than Dan Patch’s world’s pacing best.
* * • »
Late Count de Rossi was prominent as a turfite
25 years ago. His big nag (Lord Burghley) annexed
several events, and after running second (in Metrop.,
1879) to Secundus, and third (in Melb. Oup the following
year) to Grand Flaneur and Progress, was sold to his
trainer, Mr. Tom Ivory, who, a little while later, won
Wagga Oup with his new purchase.
* * * *
Scottish King’s finish in Spring Handicap at
recent V.R.O. meet topped anything done on same track
for many a day, and was a wonder in view of previous
failures, which left the impression that he wasn’t near
the nag estimated. Now cramped odds will be the rule
until S.K. misses badly once or twice—which is quite
probafile, seeing he is brother to that bad disappoint-
ment Kinglike, who at three years promised so much.
• * * *
Big horse-racing events offer excellent oppor-
tunities for passing forged notes, Mo being frequently
victimised to a considerable extent, and often—uninten-
tionally—passing notes on to backers. Last V.R.O. meet
saw several £1 notes accepted for tens, and great was the
howl of Israel in consequence. Forgeries were excellent.
Union Bank notes were operated upon, “One” being
obliterated and “Ten” substituted so cleverly that
only holding the note before a strong light gave the
fraud away. An exactly similar fraud, also with Union
Bank notes, was worked on almost every shop in Dunedin
one Saturday night about 23 years ago.
* * * *
“Petramos”: At Adelaide Zoo, t’other day, I
stood me before the baboon’s cage and thought to gather
in wisdom, but alas! the baboon had been ruined by a
craze. I held my paw to his and proffered him sweet
nuts in a brotherly fashion, but he heeded not. He
would look at the nut sadly, shake his head, and then
begin -to rub himself vigorously. He was training.
Striking an attitude he would pause for a moment and
then commence to walk, slowly at first, and then rapidly.
Round and round the cage he would go, and at last,
apparently exhausted, he would throw himself flat on the
floor. In a little time he would repeat the performance.
The Bulletin said the walking craze had died in Adelaide
—but it hasn’t. The monkeys have got it.
* * * *
M.L. long-distance runner H. C. Murray badly
fractured the Australasian record recently, getting home
in 56min. 16secs., or 40secs. quicker than the previous
time.
• * * *
Warner missed winning the S.A. match through
two causes. One was the fine batting of Clem Hill and
young Jennings, who made all his bowlers look cheap.
Local critics seem to think they have found another Hill
in the colt, who is only 19, and scored 26 and 77 (both not
out) with the utmost confidence and in perfect style.
But the main cause was the greed of the local Cricket
Association in insisting that the second day should fall
on the holiday (Monday). The English team had landed
on the previous Monday, and the match might, and
should, have started on Friday, as usual. There should
be no such thing as a drawn game in first-class cricket in
Australia; and the 3J days allowed for this match would
mean a draw in nine cases out of ten.
* * * *
Mayor M'Eacharn, lunching the English
cricketers in Melbourne, said he hoped there would he no
waste of time in the matches, but that the players would
show the same punctuality in getting to their posts “as
anyone should when sitting down to meals.” The
mayoral mind runneth ever on the matter of meals.
* * » *
Cricket matches are mostly won or lost after 10
o’clock at night. Warner talks a lot about the necessity
for “ playing the game ”—in the field. A captain’s first
care should be to see that his men play the game outside
of the field. This time, however, the visitors will start
their test matches with the comparative advantage of not
having to meet men who are battling for inclusion in a
team that sails for England at the end of the season.
Maclaren’s Eleven w r as opposed to the keenest of triers
in every instance—men who took every possible pre-
caution against failure. They were playing for places in
the next Australian Eleven. This time there is no such
incentive to steadiness on the part of the local champions,
and some of them, perhaps, will take whisky-and-soda
risks.
* * » •
Fielder, the young fast bowler of Warner’s
team, is rather a disappointment. He takes as long a
run to the crease as Tom Richardson took, but his action
is not so impressive, and he doesn’t rival Terrible Tom in
the pace or “devil” of his bowling. All the same he
threatens to be more dangerous on a dry wicket than
Relf, who gets a good pace with comparatively little
exertion. Nr ..
* * * *
Harry Trott, malting his re-appearance against
an English Eleven after long years, got a reception from
all round the M.C.C. ground. Same old Trott; same old
bingey on him. He was doing pretty well at the wickets
up to the time when Rhodes took the ball. With his
fourth delivery the slow left-hander basely deceived
Harry—the veteran smote the air, and the wicket-keeper
closed the incident.
Hayward gives one the impression that he is
likely to bat a little above his “ form” of 1901-2, but his
want of resolution at the outset of an innings is as
noticeable as ever. A sound, cautious batsman —with no
squareness in the
Rhodes “came off” brilliantly enough in his
first attempt against the Victorians. Until Monfries and
Horan got together the Yorkshireman was quite a
conquering hero, but the newcomers played him with
more confidence and he was taken off, remaining off for
some time with his record at 4 for 26. Finally he came
on again to break the last partnership, and off his second
ball Collins was caught out. For disposing of weak
batsmen Rhodes promises to he as effective as Peel, of
vore. on anv sort of Australian wicket.
* » * *
What a valuable cricketer is Braund —at his
best! In the second innings of the Soustralians, when
the English bowling was coming easy, Braund made three
catches, two of them brilliant, and got another man
caught off his own bowling. In the first innings he had
the best bowling average—2 for 15.
* * * .
Hill’s 115 against the Englishmen in Adelaide
recalls his 200 against Stoddart’s team in the first match
of the ’97 tour. That stands as his record against t’other-
side visitors, though he had previously made 150 not out
against Richardson, Lockwood, Peel, and Briggs, which
was perhaps a bigger performance. He was 19 then.
...»
Though the team to represent N.S.W. against
England, Friday this week, has been subjected to much
criticism, taken by and large it is at least a good batting
combination—possibly as good as could be chosen.
Exception is made to presence of S. E. Gregory, Howell,
Hickson and Fisher. Services of Gregory and Howell in
past teams rendered their claims second to none,
despite that neither has shown the requisite form so far
this season. Howell, particularly, has been a rank
failure in club cricket, but it was so with him once or
twice before, and yet he subsequently proved more than
fit for a place in every one of several important matches.
Hickson undoubtedly won for N.S.W. the match against
Victoria in Sydney last year; up to now, however,
present season’s club cricket has shown that he has been
anything but the same man. Though Fisher’s inclusion
reads like an experiment, it must be remembered he is a
first-class all-round man—a capable bat, a sure field, and
a steady, medium - paced bowler. Both Fisher and
Hickson came from the Church of England school,
where there are still one or two other possibles for big
cricket. Overlooking of Burwood player Mackay is re-
grettable—he richly merited better treatment.
* * * *
Match, England v. Victoria, Monday, ended in
a decisive defeat for home side. At 443 for 8 wickets,
Warner, in accordance with an arrangement made before
starting, declared the innings closed ; Victorians then had
281 to get to avert a one-innings rout. First five made
170, but the rest only managed 26 which, together with 14
sundries, produced 210, leaving visitors best by an innings
and 71 runs. Though Victorians were among the weakest
that ever represented their State the Britishers are
proving a tough lot. Up to date they have lost 15 wickets
for 926—an average verging on 62 per wicket. Lesson of
S.A. and V. matches is that cricket in those States has
deteriorated considerably, or that their form is very much
off, or that Warner has brought an exceptionally strong
combination evidence of its batting power comes
through fact that Rhodes (who got 1100 runs last season)
goes in 10th man.
* • • *
Concerning Sydney first-grade cricket, Satur-
day, Sydney and Redfern clubs provided something that
puzzled. On a batsman’s wicket, M'Beth and Marsh sent
Redfern pavilionwards for 77, and Sydney looked a sure
winner in consequence; but Johnson, anew bowler in
first-grade matches, settled Quist and Chapman in his
first over, and in the second bagged Richardson—the
three costing but 1 run. The whole side went down for
63 and, ere stump draw, two Redfern men were out for 5.
Twenty-one wickets fell for 145 runs. North Sydney,
opposed to Central Cumberland, notched 494 for 9 out.
Howell was among the bowlers. Hopkins put up a
brilliantly-accumulated 183, and Hickson (another mem-
ber of N.S.W. combination to meet the Englishmen, and
whose inclusion has been kicked against) compiled 93.
Burwood set up 330 for Paddington to beat, Garnsey con-
tributing 82, Hogue 68, and Barbour 64. ’Varsity, play-
ing Leichhardt-Balmain, made 326 for 7 wickets. Waddy
contributed 146, and he and new State rep., Fisher, added
145 for the sixth wicket. Fisher was 53 (not out) at the
close of play.
• • * •
“P.”: Wellington (M.L.) “two-up” school,
reported in Bulletin (8/10/’O3) as being impregnable, was
raided by the police on 24th October, and 35 kippists
were handcuffed and marched away with ignominy. It
appears that the force had had emissaries in the camp for
some weeks past “ two-upping ” with much earnestness,
and it had been arranged that a descent would be made
at the time stated. As one member of the school entered
from the street the doorkeeper was seized and gagged
before he could press the electric alarm button. Second
doorkeeper was collared by one of the inside emissaries,
and the door opened to admit the ’tecs. By the time
these reached the room above, the members had got the
hang of the situation, and no sign of “two-up” was
visible—hut a prayer-meeting was being held. The
premises were those of the Olympic Club, ostensibly an
athletic school, and to bear this out there were clubs,
dumbbells, rapiers and a punching-ball lying about
promiscuously. The keepers of the Olympic elected to he
tried by jury, and the crowd all pleaded “ not guilty ”
among them “ Snowy ” Sturgeon (boxing instructor),
who was recently downed in Sydney by “Soldier"
Thompson.
* * *
Signs are plentiful that there’ll shortly be a
mild boom in Australian ’rastling. Two Mahomme-
dans have held Australian supremacy between them
for years, and their manner of rubbing it in by challenging
to throw all comers thrice before being once thrown
themselves, has evoked responses from M.L. and W.A.
Backer of W.A. champion (Scott) offers to support him
to a big tune against any “ flaming nigger in the world ”
and has followed this up with a £SO deposit. Whilom
top-notcher Perryman (in W.A. now) who only suffered
defeat once, at the hands of “ Dan Stewart ”
(McLeod) when he swooped on Australia from ’Murka
some years ago, also accepts the gage and promises to find
big money for a match. Meanwhile both Hindus are
willing and will accommodate the lot in turn and take a
deal of putting down.
* * * *
It grows more apparent that visiting bikists
invariably beat Australians by tactics. Last season
Taylor was successful chiefly because he knew when
to make his final rush for the tape ; now Lawson and
McFarland are scoring by similar headiness. The
Australians have had plenty of opportunities to profit by
the tact of visiting cyclists, but, somehow, they don’t
seem to learn anything. A N.S.W. paper is advising
bikists that “ the only way they will beat Lawson is to
cultiyate a ‘jump,’ and, by sticking to his wheel like
grim death, moving when he moves, and sprinting when
he sprints.” That is what Australian riders have been
doing for a long time ; but the trouble is to find out
just when Lawson is going to do his marvellous “ jump.”
* * * *
The American cyclists already in Sydney are
intent on making a splash for prizes before Major Taylor
arrives. At present handicap form, and by the way they
scoop in scratch races, the best of the Australians are but
second-raters in comparison. Taylor may not be the
all-conquering flyer he is made out to be; still, his
presence will, perhaps, liven things up somewhat.
Yankee bikist Lawson headed the list of winners at the
recent Sydney meeting, raking in £llO 10s., and, con-
sidering that he raced at every meet day and night, the
meagre prize-money isn’t much for visitors to rave over.
T’other Yank, McFarland, won £3O 10s.
» * * *
N.S.W. Bike League troubles are still unsettled.
So-called “executive” people, supporting deposed sec.
Brannigan, insist that they are the rulers, and have some
support from country affiliations, while the “ council,”
whose mouthpiece is M'lntosh, treats opposing faction
with disdain. Both sides have been bidding for recog-
nition from other States. Victoria suggested a general
election, and promised support to the officers appointed.
Proposal was adopted, and result announced within the
last day or two. “ Council ” sec. M‘Intosh alleges that of
31 officials declared chosen only seven are league mem-
bers, and four were nominated without authority. Also
stated that no metropolitan members of league interested
themselves in the matter —voting came principally from
a few country clubs. Things are as far off being straigh-
tened as ever.
* * * *
Sydney National Sporting Club’s quest for new
blood caused management to match “Robbo” and ex-
middleweight champion Mick Dunn’s pet pupil, Harold
Smith, last week. Though principals had done well in
previous engagements, they fell off lamentably pitted
against each other, although splendidly trained and in
superb fix. “ Robbo ” showed more mobility and
generally outclassed bigger and stronger Smith, whose
operations lacked “devil” and whose blows were pushed
rather than hit. From beginning to end the thing was
deadly tame. In the 6th round a hard punch in the
stomach, as he came in, knocked what little ginger he
possessed out of “ Robbo ” and he kept away mostly till
shortly after the next opened when, staggering suddenly,
he nursed an apparently painful arm. Later twas
explained that “Robbo” had put his left elbow out,
though how was a mystery. Neither will make a
champion.
In the Victorian Assembly the other night
those two excited Tories, Swinburne and
McCutcheon, raged about the iniquity of the
Income Tax. One of them spluttered out that
“to his own knowledge hundreds of thousands of
pounds had been driven out of the State and had
gone to Maoriland ,” while the other backed him up
by giving a specific instance of a “firm that had
sent ,£4OOO to Maoriland to invest in place of
leaving it here.’.’ These capitalists, be it notecb
were so enamored of ‘ ‘ Socialistic Legislation
that they actually sent their spare cash to be in-
vested in the most socialistic country within sight !
Surely McKetchup and the other ’Pootras must
be Socialists in disguise.
Dill Macky’s mission to Melbourne, to
dare the Scarlet Woman to tread on the Yellow
Pup’s tail, didn’t amount to a row of pins.
Gaud Mayor Gillott hadn’t the sense to veto the
ridiculous “procession.” First he said “Yes,”
then he said they mustn’t march, but might stroll;
finally he said, they might scramble through any
way they liked if they wore no regalia. And
when the two or three thousand youths and weedy
adults, protected by 20 mounted constables and
60 of Irvine’s aged foot police, finally marched
through the city hardly anybody stopped to look
at them or took his pipe from his mouth to ask
what it all meant. Not a public man came near
them save the few who trade on the game—stodgy
Simon Fraser, Ramsay, and one or two others.
There is no doubt that David Syme is
still the best hater on this continent. Irvine’s
announcement that he was going to throw up the
Victorian Premiership was accompanied by a
stinging proclamation that he “ did not think it
necessary to take a certain gentleman connected
with a certain newspaper into his counsels,”
although he had undoubtedly done so during the
railway strike, and at other times when his
Government faced trouble. Therefore the Agk
bade him farewell with some nicely chosen
epithets, said he was suffering from “mental
failure,” and after speaking of his “exhibitions of
bad temper and lack of good judgment, which
plainly indicate that he will act. wisely by seeking
retirement and rest,” solaced him by stating that
“it is not given to everyone to possess the
temperament and capacity that will successfully
carry a man through a political campaign.” The
rapidity with which the Age discovered that
Irvine was a statesman was nothing to the speed
with which it subsequently discovered that he
was not.
OUP DAY IN THE BUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The strong north wind, a doleful blast,
Comes down upon me from the hill 5
The wild galahs go screaming past,
A wagtail’s on my window-sill.
And dreaming here in discontent,
I watch the lazy wreaths of smoke
That, upward from my lone couch sent,
Are vain as ’tis to back a moke.
Still I’d be there if only she—
The lady with the money-bags—
Had cast a handful unto me,
That I might put it on the nags.
From this weird, weeping solitude
One brief, warm, lively, reckless week
I’d have where exiles do not brood,
But where the lost their shekels seek.
(That hot north wind howls through the frame
Of many a mental skeleton,
That one time was a horse of fame— *
The “stiff ” I put my money on.) ,
Now in this God-forgotten spot,
Far from all human kith and kin,
An exile, I can’t put the pot
Upon the horse I know will win.
vio.
WILL JARRETT.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER. ....
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
FOUR ORIGINAL DESIGNS in GEM RINGS
Perfect in Beauty,
Style and Setting*
LOVELY GIFTS FOR THE XMAS SEASON.
Set with 25 first quality
Diamonds and 1 Sapphire
£l2 12s.
Newest Design, set with
34 Lovely Diamonds,
£lB 10s.
Very Handsome.
25 first quality Diamonds,
Diamond Knot Bing,
£l2 10a.
New Goods arriving by every mail.]
The Goldsmiths & Silversmiths Alliance, Ltd.
Our Only Australian Address: 90 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Continental Caoutchouc & Guttapercha Co.
HATffOVER.
; : " • >* '■' ?M
i :•• ; . -—L
;|l
®SM ■v ' <
,Vl- i'A-.'.-.
rS H> '-' '■=': Iffi, *
* v' \m
,:m.
W
r«*
-
•. <3i
~ L
MAKERS OF
Wallace Continental Bicycle Tyres,
Wallace Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres,
AND
The Celebrated Continental Motor Tyres
(Winners of Gordon Bennett Oup, 1903).
Total Yearly Output—over 600,000 Tyres.
DEPOT AT—
WALLACE PNEUMATIC TYRE COY.,
274 FLINDERS ST., nELBOURNE.
Branches in all States.
v 6
H
The Bulletin
THE BICYCLE YOU SHOULD BUY.
The 1903 Model RED BIRD BICYCLE
Built for Speed and Strength. Every part of a BED BIRD can be duplicated. The Bearings and Ohain-
Wheels are absolutely accurate, thus the RED BIRD runs very easily and lasts for years. Cash or terms.
Second-Hand Bicycles
taken in Part Payment.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St, Sydney
SHAKESPEARIAN THERAPEUTICS —
Tf anything can “ minister unto a mind diseased ’’
it is assuredly Hunyadi Janos, which will “cleanse
the stuff’d bosom of the perilous stuff which
weighs upon the heart.” It is an arsenal of
therapeutics, being speedy, sure and gentle.*
That Sydney Government House young
tnan has been acquitted of the charge of stealing
his suffering country’s typewriter and giving it to
his best girl. As the Judge expressed it: —
The case really narrowed itself down to the question—
Did the accused, in his madness of love for the girl Gates,
give her the typewriter ?
Love breaks out in curious ways : The Bulletin
\ aguoly recollects a person who, in the frenzy of
his affection, gave his girl two sacks of onions, a
sun bonnet and a bull-dog. In the present
instance, however, the loss of the machine was
satisfactorily explained.
If the man on the Land wishes to remain
there in peace, he should employ W. N. Willis
I,and Agent, 21 Bligh-street, as his Agent. No
results—no payments.* '
“ Rimutaka ” : During the debate in the
M.L. House of Reps, on the new Licensing Act,
members so lost control of themselves that-
they quite overlooked the supposed subject of
debate and raised a howling discussion consisting
mostly of descriptions of other members’ allegedly
immoral ancestors. One alleged legislator in-
formed the House in a grieved, big voice that the
father of another “allegator” was a thief. This-
shocked the Speaker into a mild reproof. The-
end of a mutual argument on the mutual back-
slirlings of two of the House’s notorieties ended!
outside in the lobby, where the bigger of the two
severely plugged the other on the nose. Immedi-
ately the House was adjourned, and outside the
Speaker’s control, a glowering and angry member
thre itened with profanity to “wring the blanky
neck’’ of another, and with abuse, curses,; spilt
gore and Dick’s awful temper the scene was re-
markable.
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
WILLI AMS’
The Bulletin
A Soothing
Influence—
Williams*
Shaving
Stick.
My Silent Partner—
WILLI *MS’ BARBER’S BAR.
aSTEvery Bar
weighs Sixteen
Honest English
Ounces, divi-
ded into Six
Cakes. Not
sold in Slices.
J. B.: Williams
Co., ' Glaston-
bury,Conn., U.
S.A., 232 Clar-
ence St., Syd-
ney ; 362 a Little Collins St., Melbourne
The Bulletin
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACfc.
A miserable proof of the demoralisation of
N.S.W. Assembly turned up last week, when
Premier See, plainly in revenge for the Opposi-
tion’s criticisms cm the dealings of his Government
with the Citizens’ Life Assurance Co., of which he
is chief director, wasted the time of the House
with silly and feeble accusations about a wharf
which Opposition leader Carruthers persuaded a
dead and forgotten Government to build some 18
years ago. The session is supposed to end in about
two weeks; but so far nothing of the least value
has been done; and the Premier is too busy throw-
ing ancient clods at his enemy to do anything.
Mrs. CLAUDE F. SCHIEYHOLZ, Ogden,
Iowa, May 26, 1899, writes:
“ I suffered greatly from ASTHMA: but Jayne’s
Expectorant gave me quick and permanent relief. I can
not praise it too highly.”*
IjaOß the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-J- ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
‘situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor— G KO. IF. ELLIS.
SHARPSHOOTINtf
The Bulletin
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/« nett.:
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
■ P you wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLANO,
917 Collins Street, Melbourne,
JStWW 8 Repreaentativa). • y
CHAS GILBERT’S
Q
U
E
E
N
S
T
• .«
FIT FOR “A WHITE MAN.”
A Pure Indigo Blue Fine Serge Suit
which is rightly called the “ Economic,” guaranteed to keep
the color under any exposure, Nicely Built Shoulders—
flaps on pockets—well trimmed—stylish fitting, and cut and
made in my own workrooms at a fair living wage.
Carriage Free
By Return Mail
35/-
To fit any size, including short stout and tall slender men. If
not .sure of your size, send for self-measurement forms.
Patterns of material will also be sent if desired.
My “Economic ” Clothing does not hang like a rag or draw
at the edges. You run no risk in sending an order. Satisfaction
is guaranteed or ‘‘Your Money Returned.”
STRAIGHT FACT.
ms
%
B
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
• •
PECIALITIES
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
Dottles Is. everywhere.
The Bulletin’s Christmas number will be
issued on December 10th, and, as already the rush
for extra copies has set in, early application is
necessary to ensure supplies. It will contain the
largest and best selection of the wprk of the
picture, song and story artists of Australia ever
issued to the public of this continent, and without
it no holiday will be complete.
A confiding Victorian nurse latejy lent
to a turf adviser (who used to be a sailor and
probably got his knowledge through seeing the
white horses on the sea in rough weather), for the
purpose of backing horses by an infallible method.
She is now suing for the return of her money, the
infallible method having broken down. It was a
very old method, but the nurse evidently thought
it was quite new. The process looks infallible
enough when it isn’t too closely inspected. You
put, say, £1 on your selection for the first race.
If it loses you put, say, £2 on the next selection.
If it loses you put £4 on next time. The theory
is that you must win some time; when you do.
win you must be a good deal in pocket; and then
you start again at ill and win some more. There
are several flaws, however, which a nurse couldn’t
be expected to notice. If you lose, say, eight times,
in succession, going on the doubling principle,
you are £255 out, and want to stake £256 on the
next horse. You may not have £256 to stake. If
you have it, the bookies may refuse to. bet to any-
thing like that extent on the animal, and you may
fail to get the money on; the bookie is apt to
grow suspicious of an excited person who wants
to stake £256 on a horse in a small handicap. The
scheme is always liable to break down through
some bookie failing to pay when the infallible
person wins. And a person who goes to a race-
course with £511 in notes in his pocket often gets
his pocket picked, sometimes he gets drunk, and
occasionally he has his skull fractured. All these
things knock large holes in the infallible system,
and then distracted nurses fall in.
The dreadful habit that Australia has of
being heir to an immense fortune asserts itself
again; an ancient “hatter,” up Herberton (Q.)
way, it seems, is entitled to £3,000,000. Aus-
tralia, as a whole, has fallen heir, on paper, to
about £100,000,000 (all in England) during the
last two years, and it is doubtful if all these
golden visions have panned out in the aggregate
for one long beer or the value of a Swiss cigar.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY,
cuts out the phlegm and germ-infested mucous,
and lets the life-giving oxygen enrich and vitalise
the blood, heals the inflamed cough-worn throat
and lungs.*
Coghlan’s annual volume of “ Statistics of
the Six States of Australia and Maoriland ”
for 1903 is now available. Begun a few years ago
as a small pamphlet, the “Statistics ” now reach
100 pages, packed tight with information of the
greatest value regarding the progress or otherwise
of this continent with respect to population, pro-
duction, revenue, debt, expenditure, commerce,
accumulation, and most of those other things as
to which it is necessary to have precise informa-
tion for the intelligent government of the country.
It is about the best-condensed statistical volume
on earth.
To a deputation, demanding that N.S.W.
Leg. Council should be made swallow the Eight
Hours Coal Mines Bill or be itself abolished,
Premier See replied :
When a measure had passed the Legislative Assembly
live times that should be sufficient for the Legislative
Council. When the people expressed their views time
and again upon certain matters, and their wishes were
thwarted, then some means would have to be taken to
rectify that state of things. He would give them the
assurance that he would bring in this measure, if he were
in power, next Parliament.
Next Parliament! There is time to do something
this Parliament, but a barren-minded Ministry is
always afraid to do.any thing, lest it have nothing
left to promise next election. When it has to
live for two Parliaments on one idea it naturally
economises the idea.
V.
?_Po
OOP
R°o
oOOOo
OOooO
aft-
;oo°
&9o?8
oxoo
Rod
S.00
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. of Aust. LtrU I
MclbQura*j8Tdacj^delaiiic^e«J^Brbbaji^*ji^7hr1*t«hurcVItAj
Vulcanised
m
For Comfort £r
Durability.
Guaranteed .for Months.
Beware of Imitations.
Trade
Mark.
N.S.W. House:
150 Clarence Street,
Sydney.


PUR/ty
l .j
'•V yyrrm
’ffftf/i’’
Let politicians differ still —
For doctors ne’er agreed ;
There’s only ONE OPINION left
To those who smoke this weed.
'Tis “Havelock," known to all men as
The pick from out the bin;
*Tis sold in Dark and Bright each day,
In pocket, plug or tin.
m
ft
m
m
“ Wussleean ” writes :—
Had to “ take ” a meeting of the women electors of the
wealthy Melbourne suburb of Hawthorn the other night
It was organised by the alleged Reform League. I ex-
pected to hear a good deal of twaddle, and I did. The
first lady urged frequently that “ first of all God must be
put into our Parliaments”; “only God in our Parlia-
ments can save them from Socialism." Another “ would
rather be put in a wool-press and screwed down tight
than crushed by the juggernaut of Socialism.” It was
also stated that “private charity should be exercised
toward the aged and for the relief of neglected children ;
the Old Age Pensions Act had done more harm than
good.” “ The daughters of the pioneers had joined the
league because it gave them the most room for patriot-
ism.” An excited lady cried out: “A ‘ brickfieider ’ is
needed to blow our shores free from the curse of
Socialism ; the church should cleanse itself of Socialism.”
Although the meeting supported the proposed com-
pulsory re-purchase of land, it also held that the “ sturdy
pioneers ” who own the large estates should be allowed to
“ go'quietly,” and “ their beautiful homes not be broken
up.” Also a dyspeptic-looking gentleman pointed out
the “grave danger in the growth of an Australian
national feeling as opposed to the Imperialistic senti-
ment.” They were a various lot, but they were all solid
on opposing Socialism. And not one of the lot attempted
to explain what he or she meant by Socialism. The
meeting didn’t really know it from a cow.
USEFUL ARTICLE.
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm is a general family
liniment, especially valuable for rheumatism. It
also cures lame back, sprains, bruises, burns, and
scalds. Sold everywhere at Is. 6d.*
Not generally known that Pa Brunker,
who doesn’t look like a fighting man, took lessons
in the art fistic, when a young man, from the giant
pug. Black Perry. The latter, in the fifties,
travelled the country in regal style, giving exhi-
bitions and lessons. Perry was knocked out him-
self later on by a person named Grog who hit
him in the stomach with a bottle.
Poor old Victoria has some marvellous
curios in the way of shire councils. T’other day
the Ovens council set out seriously to assure the
State (per circular) that compulsory land resump-
tion was a sin and a shame, and could not be
tolerated. All other shire councils were invited
to assist in blocking such legislation. In most
cases the circular met with a very cool reception,
but when it reached Ararat it fell among friends,
and was promptly taken to the waistcoats of the
local councillors. The bumptious reactionaries
who bluster round that table spluttered out an
unqualified endorsement of the Ovens doctrine,
and instructed Toutcher, M.L.A., to oppose
Irvine’s proposed land settlement legislation.
Seeing that Ararat’s representative has been one
of Victoria’s most persistent land reformers, the
brassy council hasn’t much hope of having its im-
pudent instructions carried out.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
WOMEN, READ THESE FACTS.
Many of you live far in country parts, where you cannot procure the necessities for the
NURSERY, the BOUDOIR, the HOME. By writing to us you can be certain that your
wants will be supplied. EACE and TOOTH POWDERS, Toilet Requisites in Variety,
Soaps, Perfumes, Patent Medicines, or any indispensable necessity, may be received by parcel
post a few hours after writing. We have an excellent assortment of Bath Requisites suitable for
Summer requirements. Write to us for price lists, sent free on application.
Dr. Steel’s Celebrated Indigestion
Cv.re. —The enemy of Indigestion & Dyspepsia.
2s 6d post paid.
Dr. Hughes’ “Pits Epilep.”— A certain
remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms. Won-
derful cures are registered from its use. 5s p. paid
Fincham’s Capaline. —A Nursery Hair-
Wash invaluable for Children’s Use. Destroys
Vermin speedily. No mother should be without
a bottle. Is 6d and 2s 6d, post paid.
Pincham’s “Pearline” Face Bleach.—
For beautifying the Skin and Complexion.
Makes the face, neck and hands as white as a
lily. Sure Cure for Blackheads. Pimples, and
Sallow Skin, &c. 2s 6d post paid.
Pyramid Pile Cure.— A certain remedy.
It is so effective that the worst cases are relieved
in six hours. See .you get the G. 5 remedies,
3s. 6d. p. paid.
Fincham’s May Blossom Herbal Liver
Tonic.— Made from original recipe of the late
Dr. Fortesque. Corrects all derangements of
the Liver, Bilious Headaches, Sourness of the
Stomach, Bad Breath, Lassitude, Despondency.
2s. fid. and 55., post paid.
Dr. Clarkson’s Great Re-Invigorator.
—For weak Dyspeptic men, a splendid Nerve
Tonic and Rejuvenator, promotes Digestion,
increases the Appetite, enriches the Blood, and
gives vital strength. In bottles, 7s. fid. Three
bottles (a course), £l. Post paid.
AU these Invaluable Remedies will be mailed free on application to
C. P. FINCHAM, M.P.S.,
she gwl@mg Store, 227 Elizabeth Street,
' Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
fl
£-S
Vj
There’s SECU
WARTE
SECURITY In
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLS
IVER
PILLS
The Bulletin
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are Carter's
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
A Beautiful 9ct. Gold-cased
Nellie Stewart Bracelet, a
Solid Gold Shell Ring, and
a Handsome Nickel Silver
Watch,
FREE.
Simply send us your Name and Address, plainly written on a post card,
nnd we will send you 20 Packages of our unexcelled White Rose Perfume, in
|a Box, Free @f all expense to you. Ton then sell the Perfume among your
friends and neighbours at 6d. per packet, and when sold, you remit us the
monev you have collected, and we will send you, absolutely Free, for your
trouble, the above-described Watcb, or the Nellie Stewart Brace-
let and the Ring 1 . Both the Perfume and the Premiums are sent abso-
lutely Free of all charges. It is an entirely new perfume, and will sell
eiaily, and each customer who buys a package receives a prize ticket which entitles them to
a Beautiful Brooch, absolutely Free. Our object in making this marvellous offer, and giving
such unusual fine premiums, is to get our very superior Perfume into the hands of the public
immediately, as we are satisfied that everyone will be so well pleased with it that they will
gladly recommend it to their friends. We have hundreds of unsolicited testimonials. You
Simply send yonr Name and Address, plainly written on a post card, and we will send the Per-
fume. No money required. We take all risk. Goods returnable if not sold. Remember we pay
all shipping expenses. NATIONAL, SUPPLY CO., Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
&
COON - COON - COON,
I’YE MADE UP MY MIND
TO SAIL AWAY.
The Honeysuckle & the Bee,
I Skedaddled, It’s the Man behind the
Gun, S w eet Ivy May .Jerry Co,
Melindo Loo, Sometimes, When the
Harvest Days are Over, also Two
Hundred other Orieina ICoon and
LoveSontrs. AIHheLATEST HITS.
Posted for ONE SHILLINC,
anywhere. Stamps or Postal Note.
B.P. Co., Tlox 401, G.P.O.,Sydney
FOREIGN STAMPS.
agpraam
The Bulletin
3P"
m
mmnm
GgSEBIMI
/"I HEAP SETS.—B Turkey, 6d ;
47 Spain, Is 6d; 0 British
Guiana, 6d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 10 Bul-
garia, 6d; 11 Canada, 6d : 15
Koumani a, 6d; 6 United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Eica, 4d ; 3 Victoria, 1850 issue,
7s 6d ; 4 Sudan, 9d ; 20 Brazil.
Is ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal, 6d,
New Catalogue of Stamps, &c., Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins at., Melbourne.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies al.
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted* you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may.be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Ilousemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. fYLI.IOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for th • registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright.
Time is saved hy means of a
k
to £2O
10
OFAU
re
Ml
lit?
M
Post
ryet
log
SAV
,'MABIE,
TODD fr BAUD
ajC heaps ide.E.C.
London &T 5 ranches
HAS IT EVER OC-
CURRED TO YOU?
if®*
KS
iW
28 Renwiek-street, Leichhardt,
Sydney, November Bth, 1902.
Dear Sirs: My eldest daughter
suffered very much while residing in
Central Queensland from general weakness.
I procured Scott’s Emulsion for her, and in a
few weeks she became quite strong and hearty
by its use. My younger daughter, Ruby,
seven years of age, suffered from bronchitis,
but, thanks to Scott’s Emulsion, she has quite
overcome the complaint and is equally well
and strong.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) Edwin Collins.
Messrs. Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney.
HAS IT EVER OCCURRED TO
YOU? That all disease is at owner’s
risk ? Has is also occurred to you that there
is a way to avoid a disease—if that disease be
of a wasting character, weakness or bron-
chitis —a sure way, not a doubtful way ?
That way is by taking Scott’s Emulsion.
Has not one who has seen the cure performed
just proved it to you ? It is not necessary to
tell you about bronchitis, nor is it necessary
to tell you about -the weakness that some-
'is. '
times attacks children. The whole thing that
you want to know is contained in the infor-
mation : What is the remedy ?
SCOTT'S EMULSION* That is the
all important factor. All that you need to
know, if weakness attack anyone of your
family, or if bronchitis should appear in
your home, is about Scott’s Emulsion. In
cases of bronchitis, Scott’s Emulsion acts
from the first dose; acts rapidly, surely,
steadily until the cure i 3 reached. It has
cured bronchitis in every land under the sun ;
it will do so in Australia. You have one
precaution only to take; and that is to see
that on the wrapper of the bottle there is a pic-
ture of a man carrying a big cod-fish ; if that
cod-fish is not there, you are not getting what
we promise you—a cure. You can obtain a
sample of Scott’s Emulsion and the choicest
children’s booklet of the year, “ A Bunch of
Roses, ’’ beautifully printed in-eolours, by send-
ing sdi to Scott and Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent
Street, Sydney, ancLmentioning this paper.
All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
Ruby
C
o
L
L
I
N
S
(G
m
m
m
im
“NATURES
PLEASANT.
LAXATIVE!*
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE*
California Syrup of Figs
is the one remedy which
doctors fully recognise as
effectually superseding
the purgatives of other
days. It acts simply,
naturally, pleasantly upon
Liver, Kidneys, and
Bowels, cleansing and
permanently benefiting
those organs.
The genuine bears the Name and Trade
Marie of the California Fig Syrup C0., 32
Snow Hill, London, E.C., and is sold in
Australia in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
Australia: 7 Barrack Street, SYDNEY.
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS and SAN KEY, Ltd.
Occulists’ Opticians, and
Manufacturers of Spectacles.
Brisbane and Rockhampton
The Bulletin
OPTICAL BRANCH presided over by Mr. CHAS. SANKEY FRASER, F.S.H.C., Etc., Etc., who holds
the highest qualifications as an Optician in all Australia, viz. : Diploma Applied Optics, Northamton
Institute, London ; Diploma Visual Optica, Northamton Institute, London ; Diploma of the British Optical
Association, London ; Fellow of the Worshipful Company of Spectacle Makers of London, and Freeman of the
City of London ; Author of “ The Human Eye.” Send for Copy—Post Free.
Correspondence Invited —Prompt Attention Assured.
Recommended by Leading Occulists. ~*B
The Best and the Cheapest.
CRY.
When a person suffers from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
Nature is crying aloud for aid. Pain is really Nature’s voice, and is her only method of communicat-
ing with us, therefore pain is a blessing in disguise. By the infliction of the pains attending the
above group of disorders, Nature is calling our attention to the fact that there is something which is
impeding the action of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER,
and which she is unable, by her own efforts, to correct. She is appealing to us, as intelligent human
beings, to bring Science to assist her in the constant struggle which she is making against her enemy
Death. The kidneys and liver, being the most important organs of the human mechanism, have
many natural ways of indicating their disability to perform their functions, and by causing us to
suffer from the disorders mentioned, we are compelled to bring Science to their relief, or to die as the
consequence of neglecting Nature’s appeal.
The Kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains
in weight of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly
an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily, all this solid matter leaves the body
dissolved in the urine, but if through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly, a quantity of these ir inary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins,
contaminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning such as ,
Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia,
Gravel, Stone, and Bladder Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are
healthy is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural
color, or has particles floating about in it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must
immediately be taken to restore their vigor, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or: some of the many
manifestations of uric poisoning will result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually
made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. ThO liver
takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again
supply it to the blood, as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which
is insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood, corpuscles
which have lived their life and are useful no longer. _ When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer
from some form of biliary poisoning such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundice,
Sick Headache, General Debility, and Blood Disorders.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys, and that done by the liver,
that where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys the liver becomes affected in sympathy and
vice versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of those vital
organs which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
Ce. tain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be found
which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive
search for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in compound-
ing -a medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warners Safe Cure ex-
hibits a marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and liver,
and restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all complaints due
to the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys and
liver naturally eliminates tl e poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease. Cures
effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. [2O
Apropos Alfred Deakin and “Spooks.’’
John Bowie Wilson, Minister for Mines in three
N.S. Wales Ministries, was a spiritualist pure and
simple, and had the services of the spook fraternity
performed at his burial.
Some curious items appear on the N.S.W.
electoral rolls. At Orange, J. M. Paul, who is a
saddler by occupation, and an Orangeman by
profession, is classed as a female ; while Sergeant
Coyne, of the police, is set down as “ domestic
duties.” And a lady at East Orange is described
as a shunter.
Austen Chamberlain, Chancellor of the
Exchequer, is the youngest man but one, over
a long course of years, who has been the head of
the Treasury. His age is 40. Randolph Churchill
was 37 when he took the post, with leadership of
the House of Commons, in 1886. The ages at
which other Chancellors have taken the office
are : Gladstone, 43; M. Hicks-Beach, 48; Chil-
ders, 55 ; Stafford Northcote, 56; Goschen, 56;
Harcourt, 59 ; Ritchie, 64.
A. O. Sachse (pronounced Sacksie), C.E.,
M.H.C., who was recently returned unopposed for
the N.-E. Victorian Province, when appointed
Minister for Education in the re-shuffling of the
Irvine Cabinet, is the young man who, when he
first arose to. greatness, seriously proposed driving
through his immense electorate, accompanied l.y
hisicharming wife, in a drag drawn by four horses,
to thank each voter personally for returning him.
Sachse knows the precipitous nature of his electo-
rate better now. There are some of his constituents
who could only be thanked per medium of a rope
ladder.
litniipp Green, the most numerous prelate
in Australia, owes his success to his untiring
energy—a rare quality in the tired Australian
church. His practice of playing duets with his
wife is said to have been abandoned because he
fled through the music at such a pace that he was
always at the end of the piece when the bishopess
was half through. His career through the sees is
as breathless as his playing, and if a new arch-
bishopric isn’t created for him to rush through, he
may yet fly off the handle and become a Cardinal.
Bishop Green is a man who simply Can’t Keep
Still. He would be an ideal driver for a coach
that was late and had to get downhill in a hurry.
From London Daily Chronicle re the
Good win case:
Few more cruel hoaxes have been perpetrated than the
bogus advertisement which brought an aged Queenslander
from the Antipodes to England to claim a legacy of
£90,000. No such legacy awaits him, and his case was
rendered harder by the response he obtained from the
Agent-General of his own colony. Armed with a kindly
letter from the Southwark magistrate, Mr. Goodwin
called at the offices of the Agent-General in the hope of
getting a passage back to Queensland —for he is now
penniless. The only reply he could obtain was the advice,
through the mouth of a messenger, to “ get a job as a
stoker.” As Mr. Goodwin is an old man in feeble health
the suggestion could have been nothing more than an ill-
timed joke. The Queensland Government will doubtless
note the treatment accorded to a distressed Queenslander
in London by its represen tavive.
Has Horace Tozer a Tozer to meet this accusation ?
“Iris” writes from Q. Premier Morgan’s
constituency :
Generally thought that Premier Arthur Morgan has a
sound political investment in his constituency of War-
wick. But this is hardly the case. Arthur is not a par-
ticularly strong man, as he is afflicted with a liver which
sometimes slips a cog. On such occasions he is less
affable than usual to the constituent who wants to borrow
from him, and his popularity suffers. However, he has
always had the luck to he opposed by some aspiring
ignoramus. During the campaign the ignoramus, of
course, speaks disrespectfully and generally betrays a
lack of Christian charity towards his opponent. But
Arthur preserves an ominous silence both on the platform
and in his newspaper. When the figures go up the
ignoramus is lost in amazement at his ridiculously small
score, and evinces a desire to dodge further publicity.
But Arthur seeks that ignoramus out, and, supported by
his little brother, Syd., and with the light of battle in
his eye, proceeds to vituperate. He reviews the whole
campaign with unpleasant directness, recalls disagreeable
incidents, and speculates on motives, and when he has
finished there is very little ignoramus left. This habit of
walloping the enemy after the row is over is one of Mor-
gan’s little peculiarities.
D. J. R. Watson, who succeeds the late
Kates as member for Cunningham (Q.), is brother
to John Reay Watson, author of various volumes
of fiction. Last general election D. J.R. tackled
Kates, and received scarcely sufficient votes to
light a pipe with. On that occasion Watson
chartered the only caravan of its kind at large in
the electorate—an affair after the pattern of a
hearse, with palatial glass panels in the sides of it
—and with four red roans hooked on to this vehicle
part of Watson’s committee rushed out some 12
miles to bring in a hairy hatter to vote. They
brought him in, but rounding the street corner
the caravan turned over, and the elector was
heaved out through the glass on to the street.
The red roans cleared on a trip of their own,
knocking daylight into things as they proceeded ;
and the man with the vote picked himself out of
the dust, shook his fist at the fleeing turn-out and
at the ruins of Watson’s committee—some of whom
were still on board the wreck and hanging on for
dear life—and voted for Kates.
Life is not always a circular pleasure track
for the beer-house man. A Sydney publican
suicided lately because a great crowd went daily
past his door and hardly anybody came in. For
months before his death he used to walk round to
opposition grog shanties and peep in at the door
to see what business they were doing. When he
found the bar-counter lined with furry-tongued
drinkers he would return to his own hopeless
show, call the barman a Jonah, kick himself for
being so foolish as to take the house, and go
quietly to bed. One night he took a revolver to
bed, and the beer lever knows him no more.
What a lot the oily hotel broker will have to
answer for when confronted with all the dead Jug-
ginses he put into houses which “were doing a
roaring trade.”
An old pressman’s reminiscence :
Asked once why he voted for the Payment of Members
Bill in N.S.W. Leg. Council, the late W. B. Dailey replied :
“ The truth is I had poor Deniehy in my mind. Well do
I recall how, often, when we were gathered around him
in the Chamber, or in one of the rooms, charmed by his
discourse, tea would be announced, and we would all beg
of him to come along. But he nearly always had the
excuse of a pressing appointment; or a letter to write ;
or an authority to consult in the library ; and it was not
till later on that I discovered that his refusal to join us
was frequently due to the absence of the necessary half-
crown. It stung me moie than words can tell, to think
that a representative of the genius, originality and
legislative aptitude of Deniehy was forced to forsake the
Parliamentary refreshment-room and go hungry, while
searching in the library for points and authorities
for a masterful address in the interests of his country.
Of course, there was only one Deniehy ; but there are
poor men of patriotism, character’ and capacity who
should he encouraged to participate in, rather than be
excluded from, the country’s Legislature. That is why I
supported payment of members.”
An Adelaide paper explains the difference
between Elijah the Tishbite and Elijah the Wing-
flapper. The first was fed by the ravens; the
second by the gulls.
The title “Monsignor,” becoming very common
in Australia, causes a little cash to go Romewards.
The Monsignor must pay £25 in fees for his
patent of honor.


The best Yuletide greeting to send to
friends in other lands will be the Christmas
number of The Bulletin, to be issued on
December 10th. In its pages will be found the
best presentation of Australian life and thought
ever issued, and no effort has been spared to make
it the best Christmas number up to date.
The death of John Lackey, ex-President
of the Upper House, leaves no visible gap in
N.S. \Y. polities. It is 20 years since the deceased
ancient was superannuated out of live politics—
when he gave up the portfolio of Lands in the
last Parkes Ministry but two. When a man
grows too antiquated to be re-elected to legislate
for three years lie is put into the Upper House to
legislate for life, so almost every man who
dropped out of N.S.W. Ministerial life since
1875, if he isn’t dead, can be found on that dusty
top-slielf that John Lackey occupied till he died.
It is a public place where the man who was once
mentally vigorous is deposited, so that his gradual
decay may be seen by all men, and where his
fading intellect is indecently exposed to the scoffs
of the ungodly.
The Commonwealth Patents Bill has now
become law. Beyond the fact that an inventor can now
get one patent covering the Commonwealth very little
improvement has been made to benefit the inventor. A
patent will still be simply a license to go to law with
every patent thief in Australasia. Take the case of the
Acetylene Gas people. It is acknowledged by every
authority that Wilson invented the commercial method
of manufacturing carbide. The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia Ltd. bought the patents, spent thousands
of pounds to develop the business, and as soon as the gas
was proved a success, they were surrounded by claimants
of all descriptions. The Company secured four injunc-
tions and is still up to the neck in law-suits against
infringers of its Carbide Patents and Generator Patents.
Why should a man who steals a patent when once the
steal is proved, he treated differently from a man who
steals a purse ? Yet the patent thief is considered a smart
man, whilst the purse lifter gets six months. A patent
should be treated in the same way as other property.*
Summer Sensations by the Sea.
Missing Friends.
THE relatives of THOMAS MOBFOBD,
late of Camperdown, are requested to com-
municate with Messrs. Norton Smith & Co.,
Solicitors, of 2 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Amusements.
The new her majesty’s theatre.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS of
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Famous and Ever Welcome
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in
A COUNTRY GIRL.
Box Plan at Paling’s. iST PRICES AS USUAL.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES -» TOBOGGANING
Steyne Court, MANLY.
Open Early in December.
AND DON’T FORGET
THE FIERY DRAGON.
amusements.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of the
CHARLES HOLLOWAY DRAMATIC COMPANY in
Henry Pettitt’s and Geo. R. Sims’ Famous Nautical
Drama, THE HARBOR LICHTS.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 21, First Production in
Sydney of A BAD CHARACTER.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sub-Lessee & Manageress, MissFITZMAURICE GILL.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of MISS FITZMAURICE CILL
and her
SPECIALLY SELECTED DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Present Great London Success, entitled,
BANK OF ENGLAND.
SAT. NEXT, NOV. 21, THE PRODIGAL PARSON.
PRICES—3s, 2s, & Is. No Early Doors. Plan at Elvy’s.
JHEATRE ROYAL, BYDNEY.
MISS NELUE” STEWART
AND
MR. MUSGROVE’S ENGLISH COMPANY
in
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY,
LAST THREE NIGHTS,
Prior to MISS STEWART’S Departure by American Mail.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY NIGHTS,
21st, 28th NOVEMBER,
PEOPLE’S
PEOPLE’S
POPULAR
POPULAR
CONCERTS
CONCERTS
McADOO’S ORIGINAL
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS.
LAST TWO CONCERTS.
Plan at White Rose Confectionery ,Co., Pitt-street.
Reserved Seats, 2s.
YC EUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv MISS EUGENE DUGGAN, in
THE FAVORITE,
OR THE SPORT OF KINGS.
Prices—3/-, 2/-and 1/-. Box Plan open at Eh y's Music
Warehouse, George Street.
SATURDAY,
SATURDAY,
82 'AON
82 'AON
SATURDAY.
SATURDAY.
MISS CORNELIA MAY-LITTLE
MISS CORNELIA MAY-LITTLE
THE GREAT AMERICAN CONTRALTO,
CENTENARY HALL, YORK STREET.
Plan at Paling’s. ss, 3s, 2s. J. EDWARD SYKES.
the MUTOSCGPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES.
KING STREET ARCADE
and 400 GEORGE STREET*
Always on View. IEUT" Admission FREE.
-J- | VoTl THEATRE, SYOSU
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
A Furore Created Nightly by MARZELLA, and her
Wonderfully and Highly Trained MEXICAN EAGLE.
Splendid Reception of America’s Comedy Sketch Artists,
FREDERICK
HALLEN
}
and
{
'MOLLY
FUT.I.F.R.
Enthusiastic Reception of Ml". ERNEST FITTS.
THE TWO COLLIERS, Mr. EDWARD FORD,
Miss NITA LKETE, Mr. ERNEST SULLIVAN,
Miss PEARL LOVELL, Mr. GEORGE BENTLEY,
Mr. LES WHARTON, and all our Great Co.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE CTRNOCS.
3 THE DUMONDS 3
THE MICRO-BIOSCOPE.
DE WYNNE BROTHERS. ALBERTO.
THE POWERS BROTHERS.
WILL WHITBURN, FRED. RIVENHALL, ROBERT
NEEDHAM, IRVING SAYLES.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C, Williamson.
COMPLETE SUCCESS of Mr. BEERBOHM TREE’S CO.,
including
MiBB MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT in
THE ETERNAL CITY,
by Hall Caine.
First Time in Australia.
MAUD JEFFRIES as... .DONNA ROMA VOLONNA
JULIUS KNIGHT....as....DAVID ROSSI.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee .. .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. .. C. Simonsens.
EVERY EVENING. THIRD WEEK of
Bland Holt’s Dramatic Co.
in
The Great Millionaire,
by Cecil Raleigh and Arthur Collins.
FORCIBLE, POWERFUL, and ARTISTIC.
Prices—3s. 2s 6d. 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
piTZ-GERALD BROS.’
ALL NEW CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE,
IN THEIR OWN PERMANENT BUILDING,
JUST OVER PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
STILL THE LEADING AMUSEMENT RESORT.
CRAMMED, PACKED, JAMMED.
Thousands and Thousands of Delighted Patrons.
First Appearance of
DR. GORDON, THE MODERN VULCAN,
who will Exhibit his Prowess by pulling against
TWO DRAUGHT HORSES,
and will LIFT the ENORMOUS WEIGHT of 4501 b,
WITH HIS TEETH ALONE.
MATINEES, MONDAYS and TUESDAYS, and
ALL HOLIDAYS.
PRICES—4b, 3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan Glen’s A Grand Hotel.
Still another attempt is to be made to put the
Pinnacles, the Barrier’s best-known mine outside Broken
Hill, on its legs. It is older than Broken Hill, and wa9
smelting before its rival, which soon eclipsed it, got to
work ; but, though it has big ore bodies, the stuff is so
refractory that it has broken three mainly-Sydney co.’s,
and is now in the hands of the Queensland Smelting
C 0.,• having passed into that control from a mortgagee.
F. J. Odling here tried the very first magnetic separation
plant erected on a mine in Australia ; he had some
success, but not enough to save his co., which was in a
bad way at the time. It is also handicapped by being six
or seven miles from rail, and it has never had the
funds to build a connecting tramway. It is not a
history which holds out much promise ; yet, presumably
on the strength of the improvements in metal-extraction
lately made, the present owners are again attacking the
mine vigorously, and intend sinking the main shaft
another 300 ft. Even, however, if the Broken Hill mines
can get out more of their metal, it does not follow that
the same appliances will succeed at the Pinnacles, which
has always had special metallurgical troubles of its own.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction’s surplus of liquid assets-
over liabilities on Sept. 30 was £5557. The mill remained
idle all the half-year ; in fact, this mine ceased to work
at a profit at the end of 1900, and has done little but
development and machinery-construction since then. In
the half-year ended March 31st., 1901, it made a loss
of £23,040, and silver was then 2s. 2Jd. and lead
£ls Is. lid. (Present prices are about 2s. 3d. and
£ll 55.) Still, it had made very big profits with metals
much lower than that. The fact is, the Junction is a
patchy mine, and it has not had the luck to strike
anything rich for a long while past. It has, however,
gone on opening large quantities of very fair grade ore—
a good deal richer ore, some of it, than some
Other mines are working at a profit ; but it has been so
badly opened up that cheap working is impossible This
defect has, however, been to some extent overcome during
the last year or two. The co.’s future depends upon the
improvement of the processes for extracting the metals
(so far less than one-third in value of the total metal
contents of the ore has reached the market) cr the
improvement in the price of lead. At present the mine
can’t be worked at a profit ; yet no very great improve-
ment would have to take place in either respect to carry
it over the line.
* * * *
Broken Hill is having one of its periodical
rows with S. Australia. Whenever S.A. gets more hard
up than usual, or when its Parliament won’t authorise
necessary taxation, the Government raises the rail freights
on the Barrier railway, which provides anything from a
third to over a half of the railway revenue of the State.
Then t he Barrier kicks, and talks vaguely about agitating
for other lines—sometimes a line via Wentworth and
Mildura to Melbourne, and sometimes a line via Wil-
cannia and Cobar to Sydney—but, as the Barrier hasn’t
any votes in the S.A. Parliament, and as S.A. has got
used to the threats, it goes on collecting the higher rates,
and summer comes, and the Barrier gets tired and leaves
off kicking. The present advance in rates, made in order to
compensate for the farthing which John Darling induced
the Assembly to knock off the land-tax, works out as
equal to a fall of 3s. Id. per ton in the price of lead. But
the most serious allegation is that the rise is a breach of
an understanding between the railways and the mines,
under which it was agreed that rates should not be put
up until certain metal prices were reached, and that it
was on this promise that certain treatment plants were
laid down. It is not a great deal to make a big row
about; yet several Broken Hill mines are having a hard
struggle, and the new move makes the situation a trifle
worse for them.
* * * *
“11.5. R.” writes from Emmaville (N.S.W.): —
“ On 28th Oct. there left the second batch of men from
here for Sierra-Leone, West Africa, commonly called
‘The White Man’s Grave.’ These were principally
young men, and they were rushed off before any news
came from the others who went about three months ago.”
This cheerful readiness to go anywhere, even to The
White Man’s Grave, in search of a job is a sorry commen-
tary on this country’s “magnificent natural resources”
that so much money is borrowed upon. The miner, almost
more than anybody else, depends on the “magnificent
natural resources.”
» * * *
Among the phenomenal crushings recently
announced in W.A. is that of the Lucky Call, Norseman,
which produced. 2830 z. from 4 tons. The tributors of the
Queen Margaret, Bulong, haven’t done badly as, although
the tribute has only been a month in existence, three
parcels totting up 50 tons have already been treated for
511 oz.
* * * *
Island Eureka, Lake Austin (W.A.), manage-
ment is, evidently, not very keen about deep mining, as
most of the development and stoping is at No. 1 level of
the Queen lease. Or is it that the gold doesn’t go down,
as has been proved in the adjoining Golconda? The latest
returns from the mine read 3920 z. from 410 tons. The
co. will in future have to do its own pumping, which will
entail an extra expenditure of £BO a month, as the
cross actions between it and the Golconda have both been
dismissed. The co. sued the Golconda for ceasing
pumping and flooding its mine, and the Golconda counter
claimed for half cost of pumping since 1897. The flooding
of the mine since the closing down of the Golconda is un-
deniable, so that the Golconda must have previously been
draining the workings. Hence the decision doesn’t seem
altogether logical.
?,* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) is being rapidly de-
veloped since Manager Ralph Nichols took charge. The
main shaft has been deepened and crosscutting at 1000 ft.
is now in operation. So far, only the Lake View lode has
been worked in the sulphide zone, but the present
crosscut will be carried right across the lease to test the
Perseverance lode at this depth. If properly wcrked,
there is no reason to doubt that the mine will eventually
come on the div. list. The treatment of the old residue's
by cyanide is'.now in full swing, and the first results will
shortly be published. As there are nearly 70,000 tons
awaiting treatment, there is fully a year’s work ahead of
the cyanide plant, and, before their treatment is com-
pleted, fresh reserves of ore should be opened up.
« * * *
Associated, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), evidently in-
tends to go in for a proper system of development,
as tenders have been let for carrying down Judd’s shaft
another 60ft., which will make it 1673 ft. So far levels
have been driven at every 100 ft., but in future, to
expedite matters, intervals of 200 ft. will be left. The
second half-dozen Merton furnaces will start next
month, and, early next year, the 20-head mill will start
on the lower: grade ore. Prospects are exceptionally
good at present.
* * *
Peak Hill (W.A.), has shown vast improve-
ment during the past 18 months. Prior to that time the
available ore was rooted out and the mine and co. got
into a bad way. The present manager (Leslie Hall), in
addition to wiping off some debt and paying one div. of
£14,000 in April, has now got ore reserves a long way
ahead of the mill. The mill is treating about 6000 tons of
lOdwt. ore monthly, and showing a fair margin of profit.
The last crushing shows 28210 z. of standard gold from
5770 tons. Asa large percentage of the ore comes from
open cuts the total mining costs are low, and the co. is
earning a net profit of over £4OOO a month. The accumu-
lated profits are more than enough to pay another Is. a
share, and a div. may be announced at any time.
» * * *
To give the Hainault (W.A.) a proper chance of
earning divs., the present mill should be extended, and
this will probably be done if the developments at 1000 ft.
justify the work. Manager Frank Moss has gone to
Europe to consult his directors as to working the mine on
a larger scale.
* » * *
New Victoria Consols, Coolgardie (W.A.), the
mine on which Morgans, M.L.A., placed a 20-head
mill, some years ago, on condition that he got a con-
trolling interest, turned out a frost under that control.
Recently tributors got to work, and their first clean-up
shows 2030 z. from 170 tons. This stone was broken from
the 140 ft. level, and the tributors estimate that they have
a fair supply of similar stone in sight. The number of
mines in W.A. which never produce any gold till the
working miner gets them on his own is marvellous. A
large number of the so-called wild cats round about Kal-
goorlie will yet turn up trumps, when the Bull co’s are
tired of wasting money and the Minister of Mines of
granting unlimited exemptions.
* • * *
Bay ley’s, Coolgardie (W.A.), after undergoing
its third reconstruction, has again got to work, but the
prospects are decidedly gloomy. Operations are being
condu"ted at the 6CO, 800, 900 and 1000 ft. levels, but
nothing payable has been encountered, the reefs consist-
ing entirely of white buck-quartz. The mine has already
been so thoroughly tested, without anything of value
being encountered in the lower levels, that shareholders
would be well advised to try and secure another and more
promising venture.
* * * *
Mount Yagahong (W.A.), which owns the Great
Fingall Main Reef, 60 miles north of the Consols, has
been i with an assessment of 3s. a share.
The directors have already splashed up £BO,OOO cash, not
to mention £130,000, proceeds of gold won, without any
return. The concern owns several regular producing
mines in various districts, hut, apparently, the manage-
ment is so poor that they can’t be made to pay. The
present assessment, if fully met, means another £60,000
to play with.
* * • *
There have been dark hints in Westralia lately
of a sensational find of rare minerals away out towards
the sunrise ; but the locality isn’t very accurately defined
yet. The Government Analyst has tested some concen-
trates sent down by the prospectors—tin mostly, but very
rich in platinum, and with a little gold. The sands that
were assayed were worth £IOOO a ton ; but, though a good
deal has been made of that fact, it doesn’t give the least
indication of what the crude stuff is worth. Still, the
proof of the presence of platinum is interesting, for pla-
tinum is one of the rare metals for which there is a
steady demand, and for which the market is quite open.
* * * *
South Australia will shortly see the end of a
rash experiment. With the idea cf giving the northern
copper shows a lift, smelting works were built at Port
Augusta during a copper boom ; but though there are
copper and silver-lead shows enough to keep half-a-
dozen furnaces going, they are scattered over about a
quarter of the dry continent, and most of them haven’t
any concentrating plants (and few of them have the
water, even if they had the mills). Also the copper
market slumped, and the Government found that the ore
which had been bought and paid for while the smelter
was being got ready, wasn’t worth anything like what it
had cost, and in despair, after sinking about £16,000, the
experiment was left to fizzle' out. A Melbourne firm has
picked up the whole fixings for a trifle for shipment
West.
* * * »
So far this year Queensland mining fields have
had a remarkably good time. The activity has by no
means been confined to the gold districts. Apart from
gold and coal, the first nine months’ output of last year
was worth £292,982 ; of this year £485,770, or £192,788'
more.. Tin shows up at the top ; it looks as though the
year’s yield will be worth a quarter of a million, which
will beat anything since 1882, and be about seven times
more than the figure for 1898. The copper output, too,
will be an easy record in the State’s history.
* * * *
There has been a steady increase lately in the
number of Westralian mining leases owned by private
individuals—a healthy sign, because it means in most
oases that the whole of the product stays in the country,
instead of much of it being sent to fatten foreign share-
holders. Of all W.A. leases, 538 have not passed into
companies’ hands : 526 have. Still, mere numbers don’t
count for much. There are 250 leases at Kalgoorlie, and
175 of them belong to co’s. and account for five times
more gold than all the others put together. It is in the
small-mine districts that the private leaseholder is com-
monest ; on the Murchison, for instance, outside the Day
Dawn district, only 75 leases are company-held, against
280 of the other sort. But absolutely the biggest propor-
tion is at way-out Phillips River, where, of 89 leases,
companies own but two.
* * * *
Fremantle (W.A.) is now being regularly
visited by British India steamers from Calcutta, which
arrive with Japanese coal, rice, sugar and other things,
picked up en route, and then get filled up with sawn
timber of the jarrah variety. The jarrah of Wes-
tralia is one of the finest woods in the world,
but at the present rate of denudation the magni-
ficent forests will soon be wiped out. Beyond the
wages earned by a mere handful of woodcutters and a
small addition to railway earnings, the State derives
absolutely no benefit from the timber trade. The Millar
Bros, and other boss timber concerns are hewing and
trucking in every direction, and a log of jarrah promises
to be as hard to find in another few years as a herd of
buffalo.
* * * *
S. A. wheat crop is now calculated at 14,000,000
bushels at least, being an average of from nine to ten
bushels per acre under cultivation. The better districts
are now fairly sure of their crop, but red rust in the
upper north and the far west may, or may not, bring the
total below 14,000,000, or (by holding off) allow, a
16,000,000 record to be established. S.A'. raised 14,649,230
bushels in 1884 ; 14,621,755 in 1885 ; 14,577,358 in 1890 ;
13,618,062 in 1894; and 11,253,148 in 1901. As far as is
known these are the only times 10,000,000 bushels have
been reaped during the last 20 years, but there were four
years when S.A. was tired and didn’t collect the figures.
* » * »
It is reckoned that the Victorian wheat harvest,
this year, may reach 26,500,000 bushels—last year it was
2,560,000. Bent’s railways collapsed miserably under the
strain of carrying last year’s crop. This year, with
probably ten times the amount to carry, heaven only
knows what they will do. The new manager has made,
preparations by re-christening the maintenance men the
“ track force,” or something like that.
* * « »
First barrel of gooseberries purchased from the
poor farmer by Queensland Minister for Agriculture was
found to be loaded. In the handling the barrel sprang a
leak, and about a bucket of creek water trickled on to
the officials. The poor farmer is always doing things
like that when the State tries to help him.
* * *
Suffolk Tribute Cos., which has come to the front
lately at B ndigo, has, under present arrangements, only
between eight and nine years to live ; the tribute runs
out in July, 1912, and reverts to a small private syndicate,
which took it from the owners, the Suffolk Cos. Even to
hold it that long the Tribute Cos. must, before the middle
of 1910, sink the main shaft 400 ft. (to 1610 ft.) The
tribute also involves payment of 10 per cent, of the gross
yield between 4dwt. and loz. per ton, and from 15 to 20
per cent, for anything over loz.
William M‘Millan, ex-member of the
House of Representatives, farewelled his old con-
stituency of Wentworth last Monday, and raised
his blushless importing countenance to heaven
while he talked of the blessings of that Freetrade
which he used to preach, while in practice he
sneaked in Protection. When M'Millan was
Freetrade Treasurer in Parkes’ violently Freetrade
Ministry he protected almost every N.S.W.
industry—except the ones that would compete
with his own importing business. The inferences
which a lot of people have drawn ever since have
been: (1) That M‘Millan knew that Protection
was good for the community though it was
bad for the importer; (2) that he practised Pro-
tection for that reason where it didn’t interfere
with his own importing business; (3) that where
his own importing business was concerned he
sacrificed the people’s interests to those of his
own importing business ; (4) that he was a
theoretical Freetrader because he was an im-
porter, and a practical Protectionist where it
didn’t interfere with his importing business,
becadse he was a human being. Anyhow,
M'Millan, the man who protected almost every
important N.S.W. industry except the ones which
would have interfered with his importing business,
has gone and left behind him no coherent explana-
tion of his remarkable conduct.
At Poverty Point.
Tyrone Power has been the subject of a law-suit in
New York. The Fiske and Frohmann managements
both wanted him, and the latter won. However, in
Stephen Phillips’ “Ulysses” he made something like a
failure, indifferent mounting being much to blame. The
irreverent American will not take things for granted as
the Londoner does, and a well-founded complaint that
the hinges of Hell squeaked went far towards killing the
play.
“J.A.0.”: “A Woman’s Letter” (5/11/”03) has the
following re Nance O’Neil’s appearance as Rosalind
“ For the first time in her stage career she has exhibited
her extensive flgurs in tights.” In this connection a
correspondent writes me : “In ’97 she was playing in
a stock company at the Murray Hill theatre, New York
city. I saw her play Billy Piper in the ‘ Danites,’ in
which she wore tight knee breeches, boots, and blue
flannel shirt. She was then a very slender girl, and
made an ideal frail youth. Imagine my surprise on
seeing her again in Sydney, barely three years later,
playing ‘Lady Macbeth,’ and fully three times the size
of poor Billy Piper.”
The “Golden Silence” of Haddon Chambers, at the
Garrick Theatre, London, has afforded the paragraphists
an opportunity of relating how he got his first play,
“ Captain Swift,” accepted. He saw Beerbohm Tree
going into a Turkish bath and followed him. There was
no escape for the actor-manager, and while “ cooling off ”
the playwright read his production, and the manager
accepted it. A naked manager is at a serious dis-
advantage.
“Fakir”: Ever noticed that the so-called tiger-tamer
(a tiger may be kept in a chronic state of dread, but he is
never really tamed) always carries two whips while doing
his turn in the cage ? In his right hand he holds a strong
cutting whip, and this, at times, he lays on to “Mr.
Stripes ” rather freely. The other is a short, straight
stick, and is never used except in a case of dire necessity.
Even then it is merely held in front of the tamer so that
the tiger can see it is there. In itself this whip affords
no more protection than a boiled carrot would. It is the
mystery surrounding it that makes it as formidable as a
red-hot crowbar. The tiger knows from much experience
the exact worth of the cutting whip, but, as the other
whip has never been used, he imagines it to be an extra
dreadful instrument.
The most ardent non-admirers of Wilson Barrett must
admit that the unconscious humorist has been a wonder-
fully virile battler. He produced a three-act play—
“,Twilight”—of his own manufacture 31 years ago, when
he was leading man in Miss Heath’s travelling co. And
he is still doing the same things with undiminished aggres-
siveness. For fully 40 years W.B. has insisted on taking
himself seriously as a “ star ’’-actor, manager and drama-
tist, without once condescending to attempt to be funny.
Marie Lloyd has been telling her story of how she came
to take to the stage. She was one of a crowd of amateur
girl performers who called themselves the Fairy Bell
Minstrels and gave a Band of Hope show (there isn’t much
Band of Hope about Marie nowadays) for the benefit of
some London mission, or other. From that time she
became a restless and discontented work-girl, and “got
the chuck ’’ from a succession of factory jobs. At last she
achieved an engagement to appear as a serio-chronic at
the Grecian Theatre, and her ballads were so beautifully
blue, she says, that she nearly got presented at court for
singing them. Hence her success in life.
“ H.P.” receives a letter from Alice Crawford, (the
clever Bendigonian, at present with Wilson Barrett) on
English weather mostly : —“This is an awful country to
live in. The climate is too dreadful for words. The
summer was just as trying as the winter, and now—rain,
rain, rain, and more rain, blowing rain, drizzling rain,
teeming rain, in all sorts of plain and fancy ways, and
then by way of a novelty, real wet weather. The sun,
formerly' a curse, is now a positive luxury. If by
chance I wake to see the sun out I fly into my clothes,
seize my hat and hurry out, fearful to miss it, for if you
loiter it goes in and stays in. I must not forget
to mention that to-day (Sept. 20th) has been fine. I dare-
say we shall look back to it for months and date things
from it, and say, ‘Well, you remember that Sunday the
sun was shining?’ I’ve already marked it down in my
diary in red ink. ... I weigh exactly 81b. less than
when I landed in England—am now a modest ten stone,
and by copious draughts of milk am seeking to cover my
bones with a fitting raiment of flesh. I am still on tour
with Wilson Barrett, playing principal comedy parts.
The salaries they pay in England would frighten you—
scarcely enough to live on. I see Joseph Came is
appearing this week in the Drury Lane drama, ‘The
Flood Tide.’ Thom. Kingston is on tour with Lewis
Waller in ‘ Monsieur Beaucaire.’ ”


Thirty Years 0 f Torture
MR. JAS. LANE, OF ROSE HILL, ORANGE, CURED OF CHRONIC SCIATICA.
AN OLD MAN’S STOUY.
No farmer is better known in the Canoblas
District than Mr. J ames B. Lane, who lives at
Rose Hill, three miles from Orange. As his
wife says, “ they are as well known as the Town
Clock in Sydney.’’ Mr. Lane has been a martyr
for years to Sciatica, which no doctor has been
able to cure. Off and on, for thirty years, he
has suffered, experiencing that fearful grind-
ing, agonising pain, which all Sciatic and
Rheumatic patients know only too well. Mrs.
Lane, in a recent visit to the Specialists of
The Freeman and Wallace Institute, told
them of his marvellous recovery, through
wearing their ONE POUND ELECTRIC
“INVIGORATOR” BELT, and adopting
their Remedies. Here is her story:—
“You say your husband has suffered for
thirty years ? ” asked the Specialist.
“Yes. Off and on,” replied Mrs. Lane,
“he has suffered fearfully. Last winter, in
1902, he was confined to his bed. His right
foot and leg were swollen greatly. He was
never free from the pain, and never expected
to get well.”
“ How long has he been under treatment ?”
“He wrote for one of your One Pound
Electric ‘ Invigorator ’ Belts about twelve
months ago, and took your medicines. He
improved from the start.”
“And what is his condition now!”
“He is so well that he can go without the
stick he used for years. He can now ride
round the paddocks for his cows; a thing he
could not do before. Anyone at Rose Hill
can prove this, and I think it all the more re-
markable because of his great age. Had he been
yohnger it would not have been so wonderful.”
“How old is he?”
“Seventy-three years old,” replied Mrs.
Lane, with pride, “but thanks to you and
Jour wonderful Belt, he is the picture of
ealth to-day. It is really a wonderful cure.
I am glad to be able to speak of it to you.”
“We are glad we have done him good.”
“Good is not the name for it. When I
think of how he suffered, and look at him now,
I can scarcely understand so great a change
for the better. I have brought the Belt to see
if it wants re-charging. Will there be any
price to pay ? We do not understand it ex-
actly, but we have followed your instructions
as to its wear correctly.”
“There will be no charge whatever. We
will hand it to our professional electrician,
who supervises these matters. It will be
ready in a day or two. Call again and see us.
We shall be glad to see you at any time and
hear you tell such a pleasing story.”
“I think everybody should know of this
wonderful recovery,” said Mrs. Lane, as she
left the Consulting- Room. “Persons suffering
from Sciatica might be cured as well as my
husband. I am sure he is a living advertise-
ment to your wonderful skill, and to the great
powers contained in your Electric ‘lnvigo-
rator’ Belt. Is he to go on wearing it round
the waist as usual ? ”
“Yes ! if necessary. But if he is free from
all pain he need not wear it again.”
“Very well, I’ll call for the Belt to-morrow,”
and with a smiling face, Mrs. Lane took her
departure.
This Is Mrs. Lane’s story. Any sufferer should
write to the Specialists for full particulars. This Is
only one case. The Specialists have thousands of
testimonies, and will mail a special pamphlet of
testimonies of cure free to any applicant.
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
DIRECTOR OF INSTITUTE.
Specialists in Men’s Disorders.
There is no need to demonstrate the ability and great success at all
times attending the labors of the Specialists of
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute
in the treatment of NERVE, BLOOD, and STOMACH diseases. They
base their success upon their reputations, their reputations upon their
abilities. They SPECIALISE certain classes of NERVE complaints,
those emanating from destructive changes in the spinal centres. For
nearly 15 years they have been curing Serious Diseases in Men.
They cure at any stage of the disorder.
They have patients in all parts of Australasia. Their System of
Home Treatment is Invaluable to Men who live far from Medical
aid and in Centres remote from Civilisation. Medicines are packed
and forwarded to any Address free from observation or breakage in
transit. All letters are replied to punctually and privately.
Their Treatment is always effective, never harmful.
Write for Special Pamphlet of Testimonies from Eminent Patients,
Posted free; also for particulars of this Wonderful System. Remember,
you will be told candidly if you Can be Cured or Not.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D,
L.R.0.P., E. f L.P.P.S., E. f L.M.,
PHYSICIAN -IN-CHIEF.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE “INVIGORATOR” BELT
GOOD ADVICE
♦
If you have doubts about your condition and
you are not what you should be in health and
strength you can receive the SPECIALISTS’
professional opinions and advice free for the cost
of writing one letter. No delays are experienced.
Singular success has been attained in the treat-
ment and cure of the following grave disorders■
PREMATURE DECAY
LOST VITALITY
WASTING DISEASEB
GENERAL DEBILITY
NERVE DISEASEB
INDIGESTION
BLOOD POISON
KIDNEY DISORDERS
BLADDER TROUBLES
MENTAL IMPAIRMENT
HEART AFFECTIONB
LUNC DISEASES
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
BKIN DISEASEB
EPILEPSY
LOST STRENGTH
These wonderful strength-restoring “ INVIGORATORS” are superior to any “BELT ”
sold in Australia. The SPECIALISTS of The FREEMAN and WALLACE INSTI-
TUTE will give £lOO TO ANY CHARITABLE INSTITUTION if it can be proved they are not as perfectly Electrical as
they are claimed to be. They are not to be confounded with any old-time Electric “BELT,” sold at greater prices. ONE
POUND ONLY IS THE PRICE. The £lO “ INVIGORATOR ” contains 2oz. 18ct. gold. £8 is allowed for it on return,
even after successful use by any patient. Remember this when purchasing a “ BELT,” for which you may be asked to pay £lO,
£2O, or £5O. It possesses true non-conducting Vulcanite Insulation, without which all Electric “Belts” are absolutely
useless in medical practice. NOTHING WRECKS A MAN’S LIFE more quickly than disease. . This «INVIGORATOR ”
arrests at once the LOSS OF VITAL POWER, which degenerates and injures the system. Such diseases as INSOMNIA
EPILEPSY, RHEUMATISM, INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA, SCIATICA, ST. VITUS’ DANCE, NERVOUSNESS]
HEART TROUBLE, HYSTERIA, or LUMBAGO are immediately relieved by it when worn nightly for a few hours con-
junctively with sound medical treatment. It is a sure cure in cases of Nervous Disorders classed as “incurable.”
When under treatment every patient is under the care of an Internationally Registered Physician and Specialist, Dr. R. WALLACE, M.D.,
L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E„ L.M., who is registered by Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, England and America. He is the
only Registered Specialist in Australia who thoroughly understands Electrical treatment. (See N.S. Wales and Victorian Registered Medical Practi-
tioners List.) His great medical work, “ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 150 medical plates, 570 pages, 31 chapters on General Diseases, posted free
to any address on receipt of FIVE PENCE IN STAMPS. It is a book essentially for men, and a genuine Health Adviser, and worth a Pound a page.
Beware of Persons
advising; the public
to use “Belts With-
out Drugs,” and advise also a medical treat-
ment 'from medical institutes* This is a system
which speaks for itself. Beware also of those
who advertise the sale of the Freeman and
Wallace “ lIMVIGORATOR” Belts for 10s., sold
for One Pound only. The Specialists employ
no agents. This is a trick to promote trade.
CAUTION !
The FREEMAN and WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
C°r. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney
Abortive threats of pulling noses have
Become so common in N.S.W. Assembly that it
is proposed to move that any member making the
threat and not executing it shall be suspended for
the rest of the session.
“ Yarro ” : In a recent speech the Bl’owe
Sullivan informed his hearers that he yearned to
go to the other side to assist Joseph of the
Monocle in the preferential trade crusade. Now,
why not assist the Bl’owe to realise his yearn?
Why not float a loan and ship him off ? A million
pounds worth of “ Bl’owe Sullivan Yearn Deben-
tures ” would probably be snapped up readily, and
the expenditure would be more productive than
any incurred for many years past.
To put an old councillor out of his seat is
recognised as an impossibility in most Vie. muni-
cipalities. The old dog knows all the ropes, and
pulls them at all hazards against his opponents.
An insidious form of bribery plays an important
part in his moves. He knows all the ratepayers
who are likely to overlook their rates by the 10th
of June, so, after winking at them, he pays the
amounts due, and they repay him at their leisure,
if at all, after harvest. Anyhow the amount is
debited in their accounts.
The Queensland, W.A. and Tasmanian
Governments’ advertisements of cheap land now
being circulated vigorously m Victorian country
districts are likely to affect the success of Irvine’s
Compulsory Resumption scheme more than the
local House of Squatters. Even Western District
land, if resumed at from £2O to £4O an acre, will
£ a j] to attract the local farmer who can, for the
as ] ? j n g j a f a | r sized lump in other States for
no thi n g a t all, together with the right of selecting
up to jqq aores freehold for 10s. an acre and 10s.
improvements spread over 20 or 30 years.
George Prendergasfc discovered a nice little
steel trap for the working miners stowed away
in. a clause of the Vic. Mines Act .Amendment
Bill. The Bill provides that if an.ining company
has spent £lO an acre on its lease, it can claim a
suspension of the labor covenants for as long as
three years. Prendergast pointed out that this
provision could and would be used as a weapon
against the miners. If a company had a dispute
with its miners at any time after spending the
p resor ib e d sum it could obtain a suspension and
j 0 the men out with perfect safety. Many years
w j ien the Bendigo miners were fighting
a g a j ns t a decrease in wages and demanding an
hours day, the mine owners came to Francis
Longmore, then Minister of Mines, and asked to
a ]j owe d to suspend the labor covenants of their
j rase>s anc j look the men out. Longmore told them
tliafc if they j e f t Q ff work he would forfeit their
i easeg# The Irvine Government is not built that
way. Moreover, it has a wildly thick-headed idea
that the way to shove the mining industry along
is to allow mines to shut up for three years.
Victoria maintains in its asylums some 50
Chinese lunatics, one of whom has been an insane
Chow under Government supervision for 46 years.
Chief-Secretary Murray has now decided that
there is room for a sizeable economy here, and
proposes to ship the whole orowd back to China,
which can be done for £6OO or £7OO. The economy
is visible enough, though the heartlessness qf
turning loose an aged lunatic of 46 years derange-
men in a land that he has forgotten is pretty
glaring also. Under what law is it proposed to
do this sort of thing, and where or how has any
mere State Government power to start deporting
citizens in this off-hand fashion ? Isn’t it a Com-
monwealth matter ?
Melbourne Age, which has suddenly dis-
covered that, after all, its “still, strong, firm
man” is just the usual kind of political dodger,
draws attention to the disgraceful way in which
Irvine is allowing Parliamentary business to drag
along this session, and says that the Man of Ice
“ now finds it politically expedient to loosen his
grip on the reins,” in order to hold back most of
his programme for election purposes. Irvine has
this session practically abandoned the Assembly
to its own resources, letting whole weeks go to
waste without putting in a word for greater
despatch, and he hasn’t yet tabled the preliminary
motion for the introduction of his Compulsory
Land Purchase Bill and other important measures.
Even the weak Peacock got his work through
more rapidly than the frozen apparition that now
dreams on the front bench.
That Maori myth, the Kumi, alleged to
have been the slowest thing ever created (the worm
gave him 75 yards in 100 and he was left at the post)
is only a circumstance compared with the somno-
lent Privy Council. In the Wariongaromia native
land case, plaintiffs secured judgment against the
M L. Assets Board, but latter obtained a stay of
proceedings for nine months pending appeal to the
P,C. English lawyers, however, were aghast at
the idea of getting the case heard in that time —it
was quite out of the question. So the M.L. court
allowed the matter to stand over indefinitely, and
feels that it is looked down upon in England as an
undignified body that is in a lather of perspiration
through excessive haste.
Chamberlain pushed home some un-
answerable arguments for Protection in his
address to the Liverpool workers: —
Cobden declared that trades unions were based on
brutal tyranny and monopoly. From his standpoint of
right it was impossible to reconcile Freetrade and
unionism.
The Factory, Mines, and Truck Acts, compensation for
workmen, fair wages, and the clause relating to the pro-
hibition of prison-made goods, are all opposed to the
doctrine of Freetrade, which is against Interference with
individual freedom.
What is the use of prohibiting sweating in England, if
you allow sweated goods to enter the country?
Unless manufacturers are given a compensating ad-
vantage, they will not be able to compete and you are
workless.
In fact, it seems as if Joseph had been carefully
studying The Bulletin.


ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors oQly pay for wbat they actually baV€.
TERMS,—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying; for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
engage rooms AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.-Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next OEOROE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Flavefle, Roberts * Sankey,Ltd.
Lapidaries . . . *
Gem Merchants and. •
Manufacturing Jewellers
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
I
The Bulletin
a
4
5
The Bulletin
m
SffiW!
m -
8
9
10
No. 1.—3 Fine Brilliant Diamonds £4O, smaller to £10; with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamonds, £25.
No. 2.—5 Fine Brilliant Diamonds from £l2 to £5O ; 2 Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires, £lO to £25.
No. 3.—3 Fine Opals and 2 Brilliant Diamonds, £0 ; S Fine Pearls
and 2 Diamonds, £l2.
No. 4.—1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
No. 5.—3 Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting, £lO to £l6,
No. 6.-3 Queensland White Topazes and 2 Queensland Rubies £6.
No. 7.—1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £6; 1
Queensland Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s.
No. B.—l Fine Pearl and Diamond Cluster, £2B; 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
No. 9.—1 Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubies, £4 10s.
No. 10. —1 Opal and Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
No. 11.—2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
No. 12.—1 Queensland White Topaz (as brilliant a> th*
Diamond), £4.
No. 13. —Marquise of Brilliant Diamonds, £lB to £3O.
11
12
13
Send for Booklet on “The Gem
Products of Queensland.”
WE HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OF UNSET GEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 100,000 GEMS ON HAND.
The Bulletin
™ CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
is equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME.
THOUSANDS GLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT!
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA. BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
being used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30/- to 84/-,
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
I Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd. ( s>
i(Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P, (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any Pne.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.. Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
CASINO, N.S.W.
Thursday, 26th November.
The Celebrated Kyogle Estate,
Richmond River, N.S.W.
One of the Finest Estates in Australia.
RAINFALL, averages over ro'n. per annum.
Magnificent Lucerne Country.
The Finest Maize-Growing Flats.
Splendid River and Creek Frontages.
RAILWAY now open to Casino.
Metalled Road from thence to the Property, 13 Miles.
TERHS OF PAYMENT UP TO TEN YEARS.
HAMILTON G-ROOM & CO., of 116 Queen Street, Melbourne, and J. B. McDOUGALL, of
Casino, have received instructions from the owners to sell by public auction at the
SCHOOL OF ARTS, CASINO, on THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 26th, at one o’clock,
The First Sub-Division of the Kyogle Estate containing 20,000 Acres,
sub-divided into Farms from 50 to 400 acres.
The Kyogle Estate contains 41,000 acres, of which about 12,000 acres are the finest river flats in Australia—deep
black and dark chocolate loam. The balance is rich dark chocolate ridges, free from grit—the true chocolate soil so
highly prized by farmers, soft, mellow, and greasy to the touch, retentive of moisture, and overlying a basaltic
formation.
The first sub-division is now being offered to the public, containing
20,000 ACRES,
of which 7000 to 8000 are river flats—the balance rich dark chocolate ridges, all lightly timbered, and open grass
country—no heavy timber to clear —no scrub to be cut down and burned off.
Dairying can be commenced on this land at once with no further outlay than for fencing and necessary buildings,
and the carrying capacity can be gradually trebled by working in paspalum and other grasses.
For many years the Richmond River districts were practically unknown, and the dairying industry there is
comparatively of only recent growth, but has taken such gigantic strides that the output of butter, bacon, etc., now
exceeds that of any similar district in New South Wales, and there is a population now settled there of nearly 50,000
persons, which is rapidly increasing. In no part of Australia is there a district better suited for carrying an
enormous population on small holdings—the excellence of the rainfall, mild climate, and fertility of the soil all com-
bine to make this the Garden of Australia. The Government of New South Wales has recently surveyed a line of
Railway from Casino through the Kyogle Estate, and with the sub-division of the property there is every probability
that the line will be constructed at no great distant date. A Township has recently been formed at Kyogle, 18 miles
from Casino, to which there is a metal road ; and there are already several stores, an Hotel, a blacksmith’s shop, two
churches, Creamery, a saw-mill in full swing, a State School close by, a Post and Telegraph Office, and more buildings
in course of erection, while the Bank of New South Wales has recently opened a branch there.
Never before has such an opportunity occurred to secure some of the finest land in Australia at such low figures.
Owing to the demand that has existed for dairying and farming lands in favored districts properties have been
forced up to extreme values, and the purchasing power of the would-be settler much restricted. He has now the
opportunity of securing land at least equal, if not superior, to that in any other part of Australia at one-fourth the
price paid in some districts ; and he will have the advantage of good roads, excellent market facilities, and a climate
that will enable him to dairy successfully all the year round, and where he will have the satisfaction of seeing his pro-
perty steadily improve in value for many years to come.
Most liberal terms of payment will be given—viz., one-fourth cash, one-fourth in two years, balance up to ten
years at 5 per cent., or all cash at any time if desired.
TITLES FREEHOLD UNDER TORRENS ACT.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Exceptionally Low Reserves will be fixed for this First Subdivisional Sale, as the owners
intend to offer every inducement for settlement on the Estate.
PLANS and all information now obtainable from
J. B. McDOUGALL, Casino, OR
HAMILTON CROOM & GO., 116 Queen St., Melbourne.
See extended advt. in Weekly Times, Leader, and Australasian.
0-00X3 KA.IR FOR ALLt
All Chemists
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
gST For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
ggg- For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul tt Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR,
fiold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
h
The VOLCANIC
AERATING
HACHINE
THE GENUINE
Automatic Valve Aerator
Used by all leading: Melbourne and
country Hotelkeepers.
Money Saving! Time Saving!
No Skilled Labor required.
Produces sparkling Aerated Waters of the
Highest Quality.
Absolutely Best and Simplest Machine
known.
The Volcanic Aerated Water Machine is being: used by Messrs. Spiers & Pond
on the Railway Refreshment Bars, London and Scotland.
A few reasons why the “Volcanic” Machine is superior to all others.
1. The Valve works automatically ; no other aerating machine of this class has an Automatic Valve.
2. The Water Cylinder holds 10 gals., and has two perforated partitions inside, causing the sparkle so much
appreciated. Weight, 801bs. Copper, thoroughly tinned inside and outside.
3. The gas tube holds 571bs. pure gas, being much larger than the tubes supplied with other plants.
4. The Turn-over Bottling Rack is made of the best metal. Thirty dozen per hour can be bottled with it.
5. The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine is the only one of its kind erected in the leading houses in Melbourne, including—
The Grand Hotel, Parer’s Crystal Cafd, Parer’s The Duke Caf6, Young and Jackson’s, J. Richardson’s Hotel,
Bourke-street, Evans’Covent Garden Cafe, Lucas Caf6, Town Hall Hotel, Sheehan’s New Treasury Hotel,
Rubira’s Caf6, Victoria Coffee Palace, Hotel Metropole, Imperial, Lucas (Confectioner), Bath’s Hotel,
Britannia, Australian, A.N.A., City Arms, etc., etc. Also many others in the suburbs and the leading houses
in the country. *
Price, £3O, with all accessories.
Smaller Machine on
same principle, £2O.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine was the first of its kind introduced into Australasia. It
received the Gold Medal against all competitors at the Ballarat Exhibition.
Write for Pamphlets, containing Testimonials from people who have used the machines for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor. Office: 101 Queen-st., Melbourne* Depot: 130 Cecil-st., South Melbourne
° Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
M 'Benger*s Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
COLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Fop Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, end Digestible•
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere,
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of * Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.
“ Castle ” writes from Maoriland :
Let me gave vegetarianism a reference. I tried it six
months ago, “since when I have used no other.” Results,
morally simply splendid. Don’t wish to look at a pretty
girl now ; don’t even revel in a glimpse at a natty ankle,
blow the wind never so strongly, As to kissing a girl, I
believe I would faint at the idea. Smoking appetite is
rapidly diminishing—one cannot enjoy a pipe after a dish
of onions or a plate of tapioca. Can’t drink beer with
my meals, and whisky goes to my head. Balance at bank
getting larger. Am not a bit charitable ; when I see a
poor man I wonder he doesn’t live on turnips (six a day
will support life) and save his money. Just as strong and
well as ever; awfully mean ; possessor of a sickly
morality ; don’t laugh much ; and cut by all my chums.
Shall give it up and have a chop.
An old Maori, suffering from financial
depression, quietly started a new industry a
little while back. He travelled through the King
country and issued liquor licenses to natives,
allegedly on behalf of the Maori Council or some
such body. The “ licenses ” were nicely printed
in Maori, and only cost 50s. There was a great
rush to secure the bits of blue paper. When the
law took a hand later on, and charged many
brown citizens with sly grog-selling, the brown
accused presented their bits of paper with great
confidence, and the astonished court adjourned to
wipe its spectacles and see where it were.


Pretty Little Presents at
Pretty Little Prices
Come and see our pretty windows—see the class of goods
we stock—compare our prices with those who sell inferior
goods. You will be surprised to see how many times our
prices are lower than others, notwithstanding the
difference in quality. If out of town, write for
Catalogue. It's free.
No. E9417.' For making 1 a single cup of tea
without the use of tea-pot. Silver-plated
Infuser, 3s 6d.
im
No. 394. Long Silver-plated Bread Fork, 4s 6d.
No. E 7213. Ivory and Silver-plated
Cheese Scoop, 10s 6d.
No. F 0139. Silver-plated Butter Knife, 2s Gd.
No. F 6589. Case of 6 Silvt i p'iaiul
Afternoon Tea Spoons and Tonj»s, 10s Cd.
400.
Silver-plated Knifo Rests, 5s per pair.
No. 363. Silver-plated Sugar Tongs,
large, 4s 6d.
Others, 2s 6d and 3s 6d.
No. 398. Pearl and Silver-plated Bread Forlr,
Thistle Top, l‘2s Gd.
No. F 307?. Pearl and Best Silver-plated Bread
Fork, 15s Cd.
No. Fern Silver-p’afced Cheese Scoop, 0 a 6d
No. £7930. Pj: rl ar.d Silver-plated Piclde Fork, 2s; better. 3s Cd
Solid Silver, 10s 6d.
Silver-plated Sugar Sifter, 3s 6d.
%.w
mtss£
No. G 769. Silver-plated Crumb Scoop, 14s Gd.
No. 388. Silver-plated Jam Spoon, 3s.
No. FCI4O. Silver-plated Butter Knife, 39.
No. F 4707, Ivory and Silver-plated Bread
Fork, 11s 6d.
No. F 6138. Silver-plated Butter Knife, 3s.
No. F 7696. Silver-plated and Best Steel Bread Knife, 8s
«=E~
Mansis
No. 384. Ivory and Silver-plated Bread Fort, 3s 6d.
jlsSife:
No. 336. Silver-plated and Pearl Butter Knife, 3s 6d.
<&-
No. ES36O. Silver-plated Lonjr Bread Fork, C 3 6 d.
Silver-plated Bread Fork,
No. 396. Pearl and A 1 Silver-plate Long Bread Fork, 14s 6d.
StewartDawson&Co
Strand Corner, GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY,
f Gramophone
-■^Records
by this ...
Celebrated Artist.
WE have great pleasure in an-
nouncing that we have a selec-
tion of Records which are
marvellous examples of the wonderful
technique and splendid execution of Mr.
J acobs.
10in. RECORDS.
7946 Polonaise Wieniawski
AS PLAYED IN AUSTRALIA.
7945 Serenata Moskowski
7in. RECORDS.
7906 Waltz Caprice
7906 Zigeunerweisen
7908 Overtas Mazurka
7909 Cudziarz Mazurka
7912 legende Wieniawski
7913 Polonaise Wieniawski
We have also a grand selection of
Records as sung at the Ada Crossley Con-
certs, of which we may mention 44 The
Four-Leaved Shamrock," “ The Little
Silver Ring," and “ Home, Sweet Home."
1®
'
■ .
■
-1
.
Photo, by Talma.
Mr. JACOBS,
The Violinist of the Ada Crossley Concert Company.
Agents all over the World*
4
RECORDS
IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Send for Catalogues and
Price Lists.
Australasian Agents
VICTORIA—
A. P. Sykes, 2/2 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
Messrs. P. Marshall & Sons,
Rundle Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND—
Messrs. Heindorff Bros.,
210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA—
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.,
Barrack Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND—
Messrs. H. Gentley & Co.,
9 Strana Vrcade, Auckland.
TASMANIA—
Messrs. Wertheimer & Benjamin, <
71 Collins Street, Hobart. <
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER LTD.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TATTE RS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government havinff impose 1 a tax °£P“| t er *18?
on every Five Shilling-Ticket issued by Tatter sail sonan
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for eacn os.
ticket applied for, or 4d. fox every 41, and so on.
NOW OPEN
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL*) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that olients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of ticketß and results direct to olients.
SANDHURST CUP, Bendigo, Victoria, NOVEMBER 25, 100,000 at 5/1.
NEWCASTLE CUP, Newcastle, N.S.W., DECEMBER 12, 50,0
SUMMER CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., DECEMBER 26, 50,000 at .
PERTH CUP, Perth, W.A, DECEMBER 28, 50,000 at 5/1.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing wi p ease requ
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobar roug an
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
Beanie’s Bronchitis
THEJ famous M *\miv\\T
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
” —. „. w •»* ~T7I * -KTX7- muorn TVTTfTkT misriT, TN AUSIRALIA.
remedy FOR
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Su ® ,re ™ yj ™h* B utStnv Suable,' ? as it'rfecta a Complete Cure. It is most com-
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to‘Coldson become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption lus
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither aUows a Cough or it as taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as,
and a Complete Cure is certain. .„„ Q F COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
too ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing t« tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, 8.E., London.
Severs Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE,
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l euffered from a eevero cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
t It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne. Dear Sir,— Kindly forward me a
fiiiali bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asf cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
um for bronohitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Yltteria.
Three Cases Completely Cured hy One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE GOLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO -A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
•• LlenWellyn,
M Katanga, Vic.
*'Mt. Hearne.—
" Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effect*
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of niy chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had auch a severe
cold that she 'entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring' a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“ JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
j The Relative In England, who is 80 year* old, also
eured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL-
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
*• 8 Watson-street, Bur ton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
Dear Sir,— .
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to harad quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that yc)ur Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent fdr my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I «nly
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thinks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distri ss ra
the chest. I alwiiys walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kinilness in tending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir.
I ‘Yours T*ry truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
K
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
WTi-.n. DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows “As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite wen,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
verv ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
verv much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday 1
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to trxy it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent,over agmn, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was,very good, and cough and bleedin*,
from the lungs better. Si.e sent for another half-bottle
and on the following S’,UidiW sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did ,nqt,require any more medicine.
So you see what great goad it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.’
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES,
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
«Si P ._]Viy wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happv to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
Che fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. I remain, air,
yours most respectfully, CROCKETT,
“Baker's Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Pive Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLEL
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,— Kindly send m« one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results ot your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Vloterla.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
vears during which period I was scarcely ever free from
Roughs? and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of >»
in my case every other treatment had failed. F
previous I had been getting very much worse and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined t
suffering from a most violent cough expectorat.n blood
and matter, and apparently beyond ho P*,°'^* o “^ r e V
The first dose of the medicine gave me v'e'com. rehe .
and I steadily improved as I continued
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yourssinoere y,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Ai.y T Anderson, of Oak Park, Charlevllle,
Oiieensland,"writes :—“After suffering from
::r xssras -ly
cored me,and I have oiueh p'eamrem
return of the A3thma*
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branoh office: Jf o 5 First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 G ® or p oU lm* Locally.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, loiwm, ec y<* j =“
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works : DAPTO, LAKE JLLAWARRA oe mhos from sycin^j).
1901, Limited.
T«„T»«a* Price paid for Gold, Silver, _Lead, and Copper Ore^
Slags, and Jewellers^wegE^
Plomlt all Information f egardmg apply


A GRAND REMEDY FOR THE LIVER
PLAIN QUESTIONS.
Do you wish to have a clear skin and a healthy
complexion ?
Do you wish to be free from Sick Headache, Depres-
sion, and Nervous Exhaustion ?
Do you wish to feel that your food is properly
digested, your body properly nourished, and
new strength, vigor and health is infused into
your system ?
Do you wish to have your stomach cleansed and
strengthened, your liver properly stimulated,
your bowels regulated, your kidneys freed from
deposits, and your blood purified ?
All this is quite possible ; and, to accomplish the
object, you are asked to send at once for a bottle
of Kutnow’s Powder, and it is as certain as pos-
sible you will be convinced that at last you have
secured an invaluable remedy for all derange-
ments of the digestive and excretory organs.
, KUTNOW’S
IMPROVED ErrCRVESCCHT CARLSBAD
POWDER.
m
Hli»ch«nßpfuni or Deer Ltap
w«S“'
(INTCBKO AT »Saw»S»iy2P
CAUTION!!!
PLAIN FACTS.
The Liver is the mainspring of the system.
When active it is the great purifying organ.
When sluggish it easily develops a poisonous ten-
dency and contaminates the other organs.
The Liver both secretes and excretes.
It secretes about three pounds of bile daily.
It excretes the impurities and waste materials.
The Liver is the sewage farm of the body, and since
it is the sieve it must perforce be kept clean,
otherwise it becomes sluggish and cannot expel
its refuse, which, consequently, is absorbed back
into the blood, and is tne cause of biliousness
and other distressing maladies.
The absolute, incontestable remedy for all derange-
ments of the Stomach, Liver, Kidneys and
Bowels, and the one which never fails,is Nature’s
Great Restorative, KUTNOW’S POWDER.
I? popularity of Kutnows Powder has now spread over the four quarters of the globe; consequently amongst the
PnwLf T° l ne Ven :; r f t ' l ? r “ al T SOme \ hodo t 0 P alra off elosel y imitated substitutes for the genuine Kutnow’s
f t,a deal “ a " extra profit, and because he may tell you they are “ just as good,” we have to caution
If von wnmi •J °i“ nterfe - lt * prod ! lc 10nS J whl ! :h i ear the . same relative value as the spurious metal does to the sterling coin,
-ir you would avoid disappointment, accept only the sterling article—Kutnow’s Powder.
ACCEPT ONLY THE GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER.
KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtained from all Chemists
and Medicine Stores throughout the World.
Proprietors-8. KUTMOW & CO,, Ltd., 41 Farringdon Rd. London
U—7] f 9
E.G.
Proprietors in U.S.A.
KUTNOW BROS., Ltd, 853 Broadway, New York.
The Song of the Joy of Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Raking the rack of a purblind past,
Burdened with world-old woes,
Joyance atrip and long of lip,
Droning the Weeper goes;
Ranging the gamut of age-worn griefs—
Heart-wrenchings, silence, tears—
And the sorrow wrung from the slow, sad tongue
Of the listless years.
Sorrow of years ! Nay, but joy of days
Clear-hearted, swift and chaste ;
Revel of feet through the plain-grass sweet—
Lip-free and open-faced—
Challenge of eyes in the opal dawn,
Wildness of wind blown hair,
Rushing divine of the hot heart-wine
At the kiss of the air.
When dawn strikes white down the rolling slope,
Where the weaving current calls—
Wavers and creeps thro’ the fern-screened deeps
And the woof of waterfalls—
Ye have seen soft eyes, and the hare afoot
Where shrouded night had been,
And the flash of wings where the torrent springs
To the wet ravine.
Ye have lifted your heads to cast your jest
In the throat of the shouting sea ;
When the years have failed, ye have fought and
sailed
Through the glamor of days that be ;
Ye have watched the runes of the rocking mast
Vague-writ on the cobalt dark,
And the petulant drift of the waves alift
’Neath the pearling-barque.
The wide-armed joy of a white-ridged world
That runs to the blatant breeze,
The shriek behind in the whooping wind,
The shock of the stamping seas,
The flicker and fall of the flying drift
That leaps at the low-hung star,
Round-eyed, ashine, where the breakers whine
On the harbor bar.
Sorrow of years, or joy of days—
Here have ye chosen true.
Honey of life or husk of life —
These were the choice ye knew :
Haloed ye lie at the world’s warm breast,
For ye have felt astir
The slow breath sweet, and the soft, dull beat
Of the heart of her.
* * * *
Out from the west, where the dear, grey road
Reddens a league away,'
Over the range lies near and strange
The finger of drowsy dq,y ;
Glory of sun and of star-shot night
Kiss on the crowning hill;
Rushing divine of the hot heart-wine,
You are sweet and still.
VIC.
ORESTES.
A Stroll to the Strand.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To get a good picture of London, in some of its
aspects, walk down Liverpool Road, from High-
bury Orescent to the Strand, as I did, some
months ago.
In Liverpool Road notice first an old church
with a blind clock tower, and a big yard where
the children play. Nearly all the old church-
yards in London, in main roads, and in odd,
almost forgotten corners, have been, or are being
turned into playgrounds for children, with grass
plots, and with seats for mothers and nurses and
old folk. The head-stones have been placed
round, side by side, flat against the boundary
walls, as close as they can stand, with the foot-
stones flat against them ; and the children play
and romp over the mould of the dead.
Speaking of churches and churchmen, athletic,
well-developed, young men in boating, rowing,
cricketing, football, boxing or biking dress, are
taking the places of pale young curates, and
weeds with side whiskers, shawls and ginghams,
in England ; few English provincial audiences
would appreciate or understand the “Private
Secretary ” nowadays.
Lower down Liverpool Road I notice a little,
one-horse eating-house with a sign which says
that it is the best stopping place for waggons.
There’s a horse-trough, and a farm-waggon, and a
van and a cart in front; the horses with their
heads in feed-bags. Probably there’3 a trusted
farm-hand inside, in corduroys and wonderfully
made coat —of rough dark stuff, square cut in
front and double-breasted, wide over the hips,
and seamed and slit behind. Earm-waggons and
carriers’ vans still come into the heart of
“Lunnon” —to Covent Garden mostly—in their
hundreds, from all round, from the grain farms in
Herts and Bedfordshire, from vegetable and fruit
gardens up the Thames valley towards Windsor,
and from hop-fields down in Surrey and Kent.
Shaky, home-repaired and painted, one-horse
vans carry household goods, and chattels, and
parcels from the heart of roaring London away
out into quiet, sleepy, little, old fashioned villages,
hidden in corners of hedge-rows, 30, 40, 50 or 00
miles out. The farm-waggons start for London
at three, four, or five o’clock in the morning,
according to the distance from town ; halt at bne
of the “stoppin’” places on the main roads, on
the outskirts of London, to bait their horses and
have’ breakfast, and again for tea, reaching home
in the evening. And, along towards midnight,
the wife in the farm village makes up the fire,
arranges the bread, butter and. cheese on the
table, takes a sip, perhaps, from the can or jug of
four-ale, throws something over her head, and
goes out to the little gate to peer up the long,
white road—ghostly between the dark blackberry
hedges on summer nights—or else strains her ears
for the “clock-clock-clock” and rattle, and her
eyes for the glow in the opaque fog that advertises
the coming of her “chap.”
A babel of voices, a glare of oil torches by
night, costers’ barrows hurrying across, a litter
of rubbish, and much mud, slush and smell,
advertise Chapel-street. Chapel-street is one of
those many little by-streets about London which
might have been cut off old Petticoat-lane, and
toned down according to the degrees of respecta-
bility of the localities they eater for—one of those
little streets you can buy anything in, from a
double bedstead to a pound of cats’-meat for
breakfast. Imagine Paddy’s Market, Sydney, in
its best, or worst days —in the bygone days of its
glory. Imagine the whole of Paddy’s Market
crowded into one little street, with costers’ barrows
in the place of vans and stalls, crowded little
shops of all sorts on each side, and a pub. at each
•corner. That is Chapel-street.
At the first barrow, a stout, healthy Jewess and
her assistant —a thin, draggle-tailed, unhealthy-
looking young woman, with sore eyes and a
swollen face in a dirty handkerchief—sell little
bunches of watercress, parsley and sage. Next, a
young half-Jew, with a hatchet face—and that
spitefully inquisitive pinching-in at the base of
the nostrils that reminds one of a mongrel about
to snarl—before a barrow of oranges, is rubbing his
hands with great unction, and fairly writhing at the
remarks of an elderly Jew, with a very shiny tall
hat and a frockcoat. This person bears all the
marks of a retired pawnbroker, and has evidently
condescended to take a stroll through Chapel-street
(where he may have started life with a barrow, in
other days) and air his affluence and exercise his
wit on degenerate sons of his tribe. He may have
capital invested in those barrows, or he may be
saving some from starvation.
A coster, near by, has scraps of pork on the
tray of his barrow, and little heaps of alleged
chops—some of them manufactured from odds and
ends of meat, and marked 3d., 4d., (id. and 7d. A
seedy, shabby-genteel little elderly weed, with a
lost and apo'ogetio air, who might be a messenger
or under-clerk out of employment, whose wife
keeps a lodging-house, and who has been swept
out that morning in the spring cleaning, drifts up
in an eddy in front of the pork barrow, and blinks
abstractedly and helplessly at the meat, as if it
reminds him of something he forgot long ago.
The coster suddenly opens fire on him.
Well, sir ! If yer not satisfied, go somewhere
else—go somewhere else. If yer can get better
quality for less money, go by all means. Buy or
leave it! —buy or leave it. No ! We don’t sell
no Horsetralian meat here. Only good English
meat here. If yer wants frozen meat, yer must
go up the street —yer must go up the street, or to
Botany Bay,” &c., &c.
The poor landlady’s husband slowly collects
some of his scattered wits, and shuffles off as fast
as he can, with a confused idea that he must have
offended the coster in some way, or that he had
no right to be standing there looking at the meat
when he hadn’t been sent out to buy any, and
hadn’t the slightest notion of doing so.
Further along, an old woman sells fragments of
linoleum, odds and ends of oilcloth, and scraps of
threadbare carpet. She has a small iron bedstead,
a rusty bed-chair, and some stained mattrasses
and bolsters ; also some chenille and other cur-
tains, all well smoked. She probably owns a rag
shop somewhere. Next to that a woman sells old
clothes, and has a line in female underwear which
is exposed for sale, and advertised verbally and
bargained for with no nonsensical delicacy.
There is seemingly a total absence of a sense of
humor, or of the ridiculous, in low-class London.
Down between Holborn Town Hall and High
Holborn are two mirrors, on each side of a shop
door. One morning I saw a stout, full-faced
woman straightening her hat and fixing the pins
at one of those mirrors, while a thin youth had
laid his gums bare and was critically examining
his big yellow teeth at another. They were gro-
tesque mirrors; the one at which the woman
stood was convex, and the other concave. And
not the ghost of a smile on either of their faces !
At the corner pub. _ I noticed the difference
between the beer-drinking and the wine-drinking
workman. Take two scenes :
(1) Wine-cellar in Italy : Italian posing—not
the arrogant, insolent, you-be-knifed swagger of
the Spaniard, but the we-are-happy, we-are-
brothers, I-love-the-world pose of a son of Italy
with wine in him, head well back, foot forward,
wineglass held. Curve of arm and wrist artisti-
cally perfect (in a country where they can’t hang
a rag from a balcony without doing it artistically).
Eyes shining and dancing: “ ’Elio, Pietro there !
How is it with Pietro ! Good old Pietro ! Here’s
to Pietro ! ” _ Brings glass round down to lips with
a sweep, drinks, and sets glass on top of cask.
“ Here, my dear ! More wine ! Fill it up ! Now
Pietro ! ” etc.
(2) English beer-house: awkward, heavy, un-
lovely Bill lurching over Tom, spilling his muddy
ale, and speaking like a bull in the next paddock :
“ Here ! Wake up yer ! Wake up ! ” (stir-
ring Tom with his foot). “ Here lave another
beer. Wot? Wot the yer talking about?
Who’s going home ? ’ome! the missus !
’Ave a beer ! Wot, yer won’t ? Then yer! ”
Lurching over to bar, “ ’Ere, gimme a pint o’
four-ale. ”
I make a fresh start for Chancery-lane. I turn
into Upper-street, and a little further on is “The
Angel.” The name of that tavern has been heard
in all quarters of the globe. I have written it
down in the Bush for a woman going to Engl md :
“Take a ’bus to the Angel.” In itself it is
nothing ; just a shabby, dingy little corner pub.,
no better and no worse than hundreds of its kind
in London, with nothing special in the way of
liquor, and nobody in its public bar this morning
save a hopeless old boozer of the type that haunts
every public*house, and a very tired and sleepy-
looking barman. But the Angel is a land-mark, a
finger-post, a sign-post, and the end of many
penny sections: and it saves years of time in
giving directions.
I take a ’bus, and as it swings out it is blocked
by a crush of traffic—but mostly by a coster’s
donkey-cart.
“ Now then ! ” says our driver, sharply, to the
coster. “Wake up! You ain’t in bed. Give the
other hass ’is ’ead—it’s better’n yours.”
The coster looks black and gasps. He opens his
mouth, but the cartridge jams. The reputation
of costerdom is stake. But just as the other
ass takes his head the coster reorganises.
“ Hi! Hi !” he shouts, suddenly, to our driver,
who turns his head sharply. “Hi!” shouts the
coster, “’Ow’syour wife an’my children?” and
he gives “the other ass” more head and hurries
off in surly triumph.
“ He might’a’given me a chance to get back
on ’im,” says the driver, ruefully, seeing me
glance at him, and taking a hand from his reins
to rub his ear. “ They’re too smart, them costers;
that’s what they is. You see,” he adds, reflec-
tively, “it’s a long while since I was a coster
meself. ”
But here’s Chancery-lane—you might walk past
and miss it several times if you didn’t look for the
name. For Chancery, like other lanes in London,
is short and narrow.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


The Bulletin
INDIGESTION and DEBILITY.
A PROFESSIONAL NORSE CURED.
“/ NOW RECOMMEND BILE
BEANS TO MY PATIENTS
HVTEXT to advice direot from a phy-
sician is that from a thoroughly
(Qualified nurse. Not infrequently
indeed, based as it is on long and
careful observation of innumerable cases,
the nurse’s advice is egually to be relied
upon. Nurse Baldwin, residing at 106
Bourke-street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney,
writes :—“ You have my heartfelt thanks
for the benefits I have received from Bile
Beans. About seven years ago my health
commenced to break up through overwork
and worry. My liver was sluggish in its
action, and I suffered with Constipation
and Indigestion, and, finally, Debility.
Several doctors prescribed for me, but,
strange to say, I derived no benefit from
their treatment. I also tried several
medicines advertised as a cure for ray
complaints, but still failed to improve in
health. Bile Beans were recommended by a friend, and though I had little faith in their
doing me any good, after all the others had failed, I still determined to give them a trial,
and purchased a box. Their effect was marvellous from the first few doses, and continuing
the course I was quickly restored to health. Since that time I have never been without
Bile Beans in the house, and have recommended them to scores of my patients, and in
each case they have derived great benefit. As for myself, I cannot speak too highly of
them.”
BILE BEANS are a prompt and permanent cure for BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNESSES,
NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, PIMPLES AND ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS, BAD
BREATH, ANAEMIA, INSOMNIA, LOSS OF APPETITE, SUMMER FAG, and, in
fact, all ailments that owe their origin to defective liver action. BILE BEANS are
obtainable from all medicine vendors, price 1/I£, or 2/9 large box (contains three times the
quantity of the 1/1| size), or post-paid from the BILE BEAN MANUFACTURING
CO., 39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ONE
BEAN
C7l£>
'ill
FOR
ONE
DOSE
The Bulletin
Ready
November 23rd.
Christmas
1903.
The Bulletin
. . Will contain the amazing adventures of . .
IDonsieur pmollet 2 matrimonial Tour
With 23 Illustrations in Color and 94 in Black and White.
WITH THE ABOVE ABE
The Bulletin
PRESENTATION
PLATES__—„
Printed in Colors in the Best and Most Artistic
Style of the Chromo-Lithographic Art, viz.:
1. A Hearty Welcome.
From the Original Painting by
Edgar Bdndt, r.i.
Size 28 by 19J inches.
Printed in 13 Colors.
2. Playmates.
From the Original Painting by E. Munier.
Size 23J by 18 inches.
Printed in 1 3 Colors.
3. A Healthy Appetite.
From the Original Painting by
W. Dendy-Sadler.
Size X6J by Ilf inches.
Printed in 13 Colors.
The Whole Entirely Printed in England
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.
WHOLESALE AGENTS
FOR AUSTRALASIA . .
GORDON It GOTCH.
’Urry!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, Ma-til-derf Ain’t cher dressed yet? I
declare, the girl ain’t up !
Last as ushul. Move yerself, you sleepy-’ead.
Are you goin’ to lie there lazin’,
W’ile I —Nell, put down that basin ;
Go an’ see if Bill has got the chickens fed ;
Tell ’im not to move the chucky—ho, yer up, me
lady, ay ?
That’s wot comes frum galivantin’ late ut night.
Why, the. sun is nearly—see now,
Don’t chu dare talk baok at me now !
Bet the table, Nell! Where’s Nell ? Put out that
light!
Now then, ’urry, goodness, 'urry ! Mary , tell the
men to come.
Oh there, drat the girl! Ma-TIL-DER ! where's the
jam ?
You fergot it? Well, uv all ther—
Mary! ’Ear me tell you call ther —
Lord! there’s Baldy tangled in the barb’-WIRE-
S'A-M !
Now, then, take ’er steady, clumsy, or she’ll cut
herself— LEAVE OFF !
Do you want the cow to —There! I never did !
Well, you mighter took ’er steady.
Sit up, Dad, yer late already.
Did chu put the tea in, Mary? Where’s the lid ?
Oh, do ’urry ! Where’s them buckets ? Nell, ’as
Bill brought in the cows ?
Where’s that boy ? Ain’t finished eatin’ yet, uv
course;
Eat all day if ’e wus let to.
Mary, where’d yer father get to ?
Gone! Wot! Gall’imback! Dad! Wot about
that ’orse ?
No, indeed, it ain’t my bus’ness; you kin see the
man yerself.
No, I won’t! I’m sure I’ve quite enough to do.
If ’e calls ter-day about it,
E kin either go without it,
Or elst walk acrost the paddock out to you.
Are the cows in, B-i-ll? Oh, there they are.
Well, nearly time they—Ndll,
Feed the calves, an’ pack the— Yes, indeed, ju
will !
Get the sepy-rater ready.
Woa, there, Baldy—steady, steady.
Bail up. Stop’er / Hi, Matilder ! Mart ! B-I-LL !
Well, uv all th Now you’ve done it. Wait
till Dad comes ’ome to-night;
When 'e sees the mess you’ve— Don’t stan’ starin’
there l
Go an’ get the cart an’ neddy;
An’ the cream cans—are they ready?
Where’s the—— There ! Fergot the fowls, Ido
declare !
Chuck!— Chook /— Cho-ok ! Why, there’s that
white ’un lost another chick to-day !
Nell, ’ow many did I count ?— Oh, stop that row!
Wot’s ’e doin’ ? Oh, you daisy !
Do you mean to tell me, lazy,
Thet you ’aven’t fed the pigs until jus’ now ?
Oh, do ’urry! There’s the men ull soon be knockin’
off fer lunch,
An’ we ’ave.i’t got the Reach that bacon down.
Get the billies, Nell, an’— Mary,
Go an’ fetch tbe Wot ? ’Ow dare ’e 1
Bill, yer nOt to wear yer best ’at inter town !
Get up the cans, an’—Nell, go down the paddick
with the lunch ;
There’s that dog gone off with Bill, do ’urry
on !
You must git to town in fas’ time
Or you’ll miss the train like las’ time.
Oh, ; an’, Bill, if there’s some empties There,
’e’s gone!
Now, then, Mary, ’urry up, or O-w !
Good Gawd, look at that C-A-L-F !
Take it frum ’im, or ’e’ll chew it inter bits!
You’d no right to leave it out there
With them calves an’ things about there.
’Eavens ! wot a state! Dad’s best! My, you’ll
git fits!
’Ave you washed the things, Matilder? Oh, do
’urry, girl, yer late !
Seems to me you trouble more— Take oare !
You dunce !
Now you’ve broke it! Well I never I
Ain’t chu mighty smart an’ clever;
Try’n to carry orf a dozen things at once.
No back answers now! You hussy ! Don’t chu
.dare talk back at me
Or I’ll Nelly, did ju give them eggs to Bill ?
Wot ? Chu never ? Well I Mary,
Bring them dishes frum the dairy ;
No, not them, the Lord, the sun’s be’ind the
hill!
AIL right, Dad, all right; don’t worry. Now
Matilder, goodness, urry !
Where’d chu put that pie thet’s over? Wot?
Which shelf?
Mary, wot about the tea things ?
Must I alwis ’ave to see things
Managed proper ? Can’t chu ’tend to it yerself ?
Where’s that Bill? Wot! ain’t’eback yet? Did
chu ever see the like ? t
Dad, yu’ll ’ave to take an’ talk to that young
Turk.
Ev’ry time ’e gets to town there,
’E just stays an’ loafs aroun’ there;
While ’e leaves us wimin ’ere to slave an’ work.
’Ave you cleaned the sepy-rater, Nell? Well, get
'along to bed.
No ; you can’t go ’crost to Thompson’s place to-
night ;
You wus there las’ Chusday—see, miss,
Don’t chu toss your head at me, miss !
I won’t ’ave it. Mary, ’urry with that light!
Now then, get yer Dad the paper. Set down,
Dad —chu must be tired.
’Ere, Matilder, put that almanick away !
Where’s them stockin’s I wus darnin’ ?
Bill an’ Mary, stop yer yarnin’ !
Now then, Dad. Heigh-ho! Me fust sit down
to-day.
S.A.
C.J.D.
Burning-Off,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Kurnow’s Swamp called him Old Gridley from
the day it first saw him, for his hair was even
then iron-grey, and he had the slow reticence of
speech, the heavy movement of the English farm-
laborer. His wife, sitting by his side in the dray
with one baby in her arms, and another lying at
her feet, looked a middle-aged, subdued woman;
for theirs had been one of those wonderful, almost
interminable English courtships, of which Aus-
tralia has no knowledge nor conception.
Gridley put up a bark humpy on his selection,
and forthwith “ burnt-off.” He has been burning-
off, at intervals, ever since—on wild winter nights,
in calm spring evenings, in scorching summer
afternoons when the stretching acres of brown
dust leave no danger to be feared.
Now, from the slab-house to the road, stretches
a miniature park ; crop paddocks, cow pasture,
and orchard, are neatly fenced off, only, down by
the big dam, remains some half-acre of ring-barked
timber. Every evening after supper Gridley
leaves his wife reading the paper dropped by
the mailman in the roadside box, and plods out
towards the uncleared spot. Yet the burning-off
progresses but slowly ; one would almost fancy he
is in no hurry to complete the task.
To-night he piles up the brushwood round a
tall, slender sapling. The blaze runs round the
circle at the base, glides up the trunk in clear
orange flame, and moves out among the spreading
branches in fiery forks. From the place where
Gridley stands in shadow, out of the current of
the smoke-drifts, it looks like the huge candela-
brum of some foreign cathedral. The glare throws
up the spectral greenish pallor of the dead trees
against the sky of peacock-blue, and nearer, from
a blazing stump, burst forth showers of gleaming
amethysts, emeralds, sapphires and topaz, sub-
siding swiftly in a transfigured mass of vivid rose.
To old Gridley the roar of the flame, the keen-
ness of the night air, the loneliness, the absence
of human suggestion, his nearness by reason of
his age to the Unknown, act as a draught of a
magic philtre. On the dark log to the left of the
fire sit dream-children—five of them—their legs
dangling from its edge—Charlie the sober, Jack
the rogue, Mary the motherly, with little Jim the
cripple resting on her arm, and tiny Jessica,
father’s beauty, with hair like yellow floss-silk
and eyes like black diamonds. The dream lips
utter no sound, yet the children clap their hands
noiselessly when the fire spouts more fiercely from
the candelabrum, and their eyes grow soft and
sleepy as one by one the flames die down.
These are the dream-children. The real ones—
what of them ?
Charlie, the shrewd, is an auctioneer in a distant
town. On one of his yearly visits he talked
wisely to his father as to the advisability of
making a will. Old Gridley turned the subject,
yet the suggestion rankled, and in his heart the
old man loves the dream child best.
Mary, the motherly, became a school teacher,
and married a railway man (he is traffic inspector
now). She sends a letter and a present every
Christmas, and her children (as their grand-
mother explains with much unction) are quite
“little ladies and gentlemen.” Old Gridley
went to visit her once in a stone house on the
northern line. He wore his best clothes un-
comfortably, and was afraid to smoke, even in
the kitchen.
As for Jessica, he never goes to Sydney now,
lest her painted face should peer at him in the
lighted street.
And Jack, the careless—there was no better
bushman than he, when he chose ; as long as he
stayed at home, the light-hearted whistle, the
homely jest, the ready pound, and the smile on
the frail old mother’s face, were never wanting
But Jack took the war fever, and died from
enteric soon after landing, and was buried on the
open veldt. He was not even a hero, though
God knows if that would have comforted his
mother much !
The fires are low now. Old Gridley banks
them up carefully. He no longer sees the faces
of his dream children, for heavy shadows fall on
the old log. There is a light moving to and fro
in the distant house. He remembers now, and
memory is more bitter than fancy, how they
trooped homeward, behind and in front of him,
with sleepy chatter, and how softly, as he carried
him, lame Jim’s face nestled against his own.
Ah me ! little Jim’s leg left off aching long ago.
And he is the only child left them, after all.
JOHN CAREW.
That maniacal solicitor in England, Edalji,
who ripped up scores of mares with a razor, and
was threatening to “ treat 20 wenches in the same
way ” when arrested, was a Eurasian—father
Parsee, mother English. He is described as a man
with practically no chin, and who walked on his
heels. Nature exacts some gruesome revenges
when man disobeys her ordinances, and mixes
the white blood witli that of Bruce Smith’s friend,
the nigger.
It would appear, from an English paper of
some little time back, that “ ragging” prevails in
English universities and other scholastic institu-
tions as well as in the British army. A promising
young fellow had to be escorted by a lunatic-
asylum attendant to his home in the country,
from one of the universities, having become insane
in consequence of a series of outrages by other
students. He is at present an inmate of a mad-
house, and the most pathetic part of it is that he
is the only son of a widowed mother. Another
youth, at a training college for teachers, for the
heinous crime of “cheeking a monitor,” was
seized by 35 cowardly ruffians, kicked black-and-
blue, half-drowned, and otherwise abused. An
appeal to the Principal met with callous indiffer-
ence, the college doctor refused to examine him,
and a magistrate applied to said that “as he
could not tell which one did it, the issue of 35
summonses would be a ‘tall order’ not to be
thought of!” Beautiful nurseries for “gentle-
men ”!
“ G.H.” : I am watching a man in a long,
swallow-tailed coat, laboriously chopping wood.
(There is only one more pathetic sight—it is that
of a man in a belltopper hanging out the wash-
ing.) Under ordinary circumstances the slavey
chops the swallow-tailed man’s firewood; but I
am informed by our Mary Ann that their Mary
Ann has left, and that Mrs. Swallow-tail “can’t
get hanother girl hanyw’ere hat hall.” I notice
the lady, in the distance, gathering up the bits of
wood as her husband mournfully cuts them. She
wears black silk and a broken expression. There!
I knew it would happen. A piece of springy tim-
ber has struck Mr. Swallow-tail in the commis-
sariat department; he is a church pillar, and
arranges his swears with an utter disregard of
syntax. Mrs. Swallow-tail still wears black silk,
but has changed her expression for a.confection of
mixed solicitude and horror. Mr. Swallow-tail
throws the axe away and holds his stomach. I
think I’ll cut some wood now.


We All Use It
Keep Medicine on Hand. Don't Wait till Sickness Comes.
Treat the Disease Early and Cure Promptly. Keep Well.
Mr. Wm. Allen, Police Constable of North Carlton, Victoria, sends a photo-
graph of his family and says:
“ For many years we have never been without Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in the
house. When any of us are feeling poorly, just a few doses will make us all
right. My wife says it is a grand medicine for children, especially when they
are growing fast. She finds it of great benefit, herself, when she gets tired
-
t'\
%
n
Mr. Allen should certainly be proud of his family. And he shows good
judgment in keeping Ayer’s Sarsaparilla always in the house. He knows it
gives bright eyes to the children, makes them have a clear and smooth skin,
brings good color to the cheeks and lips, and gives them the hearty appetite so
necessary to a substantial growth and development.
Don’t make the mistake of experimenting with some other Sarsaparilla.
AH other Sarsaparillas are sold because they are said to be like Ayer’s.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Greatest Family Medicine the World Has Ever Known
and worn out from overwork. The same
medicine cured me once of a severe
liver complaint, pain through the kid-
neys, and impure blood.”
The Bulletin
try it in your bath.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a "Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Kemcwis Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
. ,nv| gorating in Hot Climates.
Kestores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
'
S°le Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
bbIHBN
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILT. GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be " WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Safe of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENOLAND.
Sokl blvery where. In Boxes, Is l£d, and 2s 9d each.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
The Bulletin
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR’S
HERRINGS
In Tomato Sauce,
IN 1-lb. FLAT TINS.
MOIft A SON, Ltd., LONDON, ABERDEEN and
SEVILLE, Hamd OfTloa: 9 A ID, Graat Towap St., London, E.C.
SHOT-GUN CARTRIDGES.
.■M\l
L
n>7
U.M.C. NEW
"II
r^TJSfjVy
BLACK POWDER
CLUB^
‘I
'U
NEW aUB CARTRIDGES, Loaded with Black Powder*
NITRO CLUB CARTRIDGES, Loaded with Smokeless Powder*
Recommended to Shooters particularly for Uniformity,
Penetration, and Cleanliness. Guaranteed the Best.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS.
t!
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
The Bulletin
M.D., C.M., L.K.C.P.E., L E.C.S.E,
Ii.r.P.S.G., L.M., ©tc..
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
the Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabet H-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCER ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
th This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“ Press Extracts ” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: lO to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BITTER CRY OF IKEY MO.
[For The Bulletin. J
, Giving evidence before the Select Committee appointed
oy N.S.W. Parliament to inquire into the prevalence of
gambling, a prominent Sydney bookmaker :—“ If the
totalisator were established it would mean that 1000
hookmakers and their clerks would have to leave the
Stfcte.
There rise* to the sky
A wail of woe—
It is the bitter cry
Of Ikey Mo,
Who fears that by-and-bye
Hell have to go.
A thousand gentlemen,
With noses thick.
Who do not wield the pen,
Or ply the pick,
Will pack their di’monds then,
And leave us quick.
They neither toil nor spin,
But, off and on,
The simple lamb they skin—
Yet Solomon,
Their kinsman, never in
Such glory shone.
Exiled, cut off, cast out—
Chucked in the rain—
A worse fate, without doubt
Than that of Cain . . .
No oysters and no stout,
No more champagne.
All Christian men who choose
Can help bestow,
And influence can use
To overthrow
• The Tote. . . . We must not lose
Our Ikey Mo.
The State, as some suppose,
Scarce keeps alive ;
Yet on her heart, whose throes
Her body rive,
A thousand Ikey Mo’s
Do feed and thrive.
All callous heathen men,
With sense and wit.
Will help, with tongue and pen.
The Tote-and it
A thousand loafers then ,
Will help—to quit
, , t Orbits Boa.
int?H^J? ar > ne * he "eary-looking Seaport to squeeze
third place for the Cup ? The little son of Portsea
when hI h L re ln ft? Hotham Handicap on Derby Day,
V»w he c ,! we, l-backed, and nowhere again in the
Veteran Stakes on Oaks Day. Yet his weights in the
hree races were lenient every time—7 47 2 and 7 5 It
ttfvthe efore - thou * h , that a third-rate hoJse'able
Cun even haS sot * third place in the Melbourne
S^s h fnp t o h i e „tf rOUnd WaS hard ‘ Burrabari a " d
Heard during the preliminary announcements
at one or two of Sydney’s boxing halls. “GenTmen,
vous’ll see a good show to-night, besides the boxing
there’ll be some cutlery' (cutlass) drill.” “Gen’l’men,
this 'ere is , and the other chap's the well-known
colored alligator” (gladiator). This brought the “alli-
gator ”to his feet with an indignant protest; he would
allow no man to call him such a name, and he didn't
know why he was so deliberately insulted by the referee.
Meanwhile the announcer sat flabbergasted and wonder-
ing wherein he had offended, while the crowd roared
at the fun of the thing. “GenTmen, there’s been a
humor round town that this ’ere fight isn’t fair dinkum.
Well someone is always puttin’ them there humors about
when a big fight is cornin’ off at my place. I say it’s a
, and lie, etc., etc. GenTmen, this ’ere chap is the
champion of the Eastern Subwebs,” etc., etc.
* * * *
Tipped by forefront English player and
authority, O. B. Fry, that Worcestershire man Arnold
will do best work with the ball for British eleven now in
Australia. There’s a deal of change and trick in Arnold’s
operations, ’tis said. Last year, against visiting Aus-
tralians, he bagged 18 wickets at an average of 16.49,
doing best in South of England’s interests by scattering
8 for 57 and 4 for 30.
• • • •
“Marat”: Be “Scrip” (8., 22/10/’O3) on in-
ability of sporting writers to pick winners. I know one
sporting tipster who backed the winner of the big handi-
cap three Saturdays in succession, but he didn’t tip it.
He was afraid the market might be rushed before he got
his own dollar on, and his own dollar was of more account
to him than the public’s dollar.
• » ®
“Old Timer”: Anent demonstration against
Rupert Clarke after F.J.A.’s Derby, t’other day. Success
of longest priced of two or three from same stable and
all legitimately backed is not rare. It has occurred with
owners in a small way as well as with wealthy ones. It
happened to the late James White (among the straightest
the Australian turf has known) more than once. Uralla
and Nordenfeldt (A.J.C. Derby, 1885) and Singapore and
Rudolf (1889) are cases in point.
* • * «
Question of method of selecting next Bisley
team is worrying Australian rifledom just now. Com-
monwealth Rifle Association agreed that scores made in
Commonwealth matches should form the basis, but
restricting the field for selection to 10 men from each
State brought a forcible kick because of its absurdity ;
that particular event is held in a different State every
year and only men with time and money at their disposal
can go from one place to the other, consequently, it is
doubtful whether the visitors would represent the
Strength of their respective sections. Again, it isn’t the
least bit likely that all who do best in Commonwealth
matches could go ’Ome—three out of four N.S.W. men
who qualified at recent Randwick meeting for places in
the team state the trip is impossible to them.
* * * *
“ J. A.C.” : The welsher appears to flourish here
at pony meetings, and he has just been giving the trust-
ing public a turn over the Cup. They are more drastic
in their dealings with him in Scotland. Some five or six
weeks ago, on Ayr racecourse, the aggrieved punters
broke one of the fraternity’s legs, and left him to be
carted off to the infirmary.
London Local Government Journal on the
cult of sport: “ The education of the masses to-day has
not reached a pitch beyond a knowledge of the odds on
a race, the ‘form’ of a footballer, or the centuries of a
cricketer. Sport of all kinds is being abused. We seem
incapable as a people of steering a middle course in any-
thing. A fashion becomes a craze ; a craze becomes a
mania. We have elevated athletics as the Golden Calf
was elevated by the Israelites in the wilderness ; we
assemble in our thousands to see athletics—not to become
athletic ourselves. The crying need of to-day is not
public libraries, but public gymnasia.”


YOUR GARDEN
WANTS
A
HOSE.
PERDRIAU & CO.
That is, if it
hasn’t got
one already.
It ought to have
a Garden Hose
if you want
good crops.
You can’t better
the best. . .
You’ll get it at . .
270 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
RUBBER
MERCHANTS
The Bulletin
We Ship on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles!' ully warranted.
.Latest
Models
<£2at
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAIS3 to any
port In Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres, Accessories , Sporting Goods
i.nd Sewing Mu hint's Half Usual
[i’riees. V ilte for Catalogues and
Special Offer tr ing suficl nt for-
eign postage. Address Dept 339-B
MEAD CYME GO.
CHICAGO
V. S. A.^g
EPPS’S
EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S
EPPS’S
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
'WORTH INSTON
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Boiler Feed Pump.
s*~ SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, “>"«<>»
Warren Webster & Co.
Enquiries Invited for .. • •••
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
The Bulletin
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mark.
The Bulletin
J. &J. M.VXFIELD I‘P.orRS., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also at-
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Sole Agents tor
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Sydney andl Melbourne.
FAY-EGAN WOODWORKING MACHINERY
The Bulletin
w
of
i
The Bulletin
The “ Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPBA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7x IS Jin., opens llin.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, the Address ow
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
M&nufaoturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Baiters, Engineers Tools and Supplies, eto., eto.
m
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
T. M. QOODALL & CO., «9 hay ST., sypwev
HAVE IN STOCK AMD TO ARRIVE- Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
•„s X «i'S X /,{§ ‘azis
:■■■:/..■■■
m®
We are Direct
and have
for Sale
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all sises
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
E. L. SCEUTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 CLA.REKTCB
street, sYUJaxTESTse"-
SMSilSgrti
um
“ THE RAPLIN”
Hand Ice Machine
FOR DOMESTIC USE.
A Greait Convenience in
the Country.
ICE PRODUCED IN 20 MINUTES
by simply taming a handle.
A Decanter of Water cooled in
3 Minutes.
Ho Risk. No Trouble.
KEEP COOL!
IDE MAKING
—AND—
COOLING PLANTS
SUITABLE FOR
Cold Stores, Meat Companies,
Provision Merchants,
Steamship Companies.
g@T ESTIMATES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
f REID'S PATENT
Mechanical Punka
The Only Satisfactory Ventilator.
Cool Rooms. No Flies.
Can be operated by Electricity,
Steam, Gas, Oil, or any other
power.
For Restaurants, Factories,
Offices, Shops, Hospitals,
Private Residences, Steam-
ship Saloons, Sc.
Ltd., *2l Clarence St
