

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC
OY’S
R. G. WATKINS SC CO.,
107 Kent Street, Syd.ney,
. —FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS an© GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
13,800 MACHINES SOLD.
Paris
1900
Orand
Prix ß
Two
Gold
Medals
Three
Silver
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-> 85 Pit! street, SYDNEY
Solo Agents for RUSTON, PROCTOR & CO., Ltd., LINCOLN.
FINISHING THRASHING MACHINES, With Patent ECCENTRIC MOTION for driving SHAKERS & SHOES. Improved Double-Crank
Finishing Thrashing Machines, with Self-Oiling' Drumshaft Bearings. Less Driving Power reauirsd. Less Oil. SIX WEEKS'
WORK with only ONE OILING, and with less than THREE PINTS of OIL. Portable and Fixed STEAM and OIL ENGINES. McLarcn’s
Compound TRACTION ENGINES. Moffat Virtue SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES. Broadbent’s HYDRO EXTRACTORS.
For FULL PARTICULARS and ILLUSTRATED LISTS apply to - - GIBSON, BATTLE & 00., 85 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in lest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring' Tricks (containing over 100
Com and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Oinematogranh
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
W izard of the North s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address m Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
V NEW YORK NOVELTY CO’.,
** 710 George-st, Sydney.
“ HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exp'osive. Cor. CLARENCE & KING STS., SYDNEY
P!
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY
„
Ijadiey’s Orient
PIONEER
LEATHER
IPBELTINCI
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
SYDNEY—
Royal, April, 1903,
CHAMPION CUP
and
SIX FIRST PRIZES.
ff
*
I
MELBOURNE-
ugast, 1%2, Grand
Championship of
Australasia.
ELAlDE—Champion
Cup & 8 First Prizes.
SUCH IS LIFE!
SUCH IS LIFE!
SUCH IS LIFE!
Now Ready .
A new book in The
Bulletin Library.
A story of Riverina’s
early days.
In handsome cloth,
decorated: price,
4s. 6d.
Send postal note or
stamps to
The Bulletin office,
and the book will be
posted to any address
immediately on pub-
lication.
TOM COLLINS
TOM COLLINS
TOM COLLINS
PEARSON’S PEPTO-GHLOR
T*HE absolute cure for INDIGESTION and all
7 i k l ndred complaints. PEPTO-CHLOR is a New
Zealand discovery, and is at present creating- a furore in
tnac colony with its marvellous cures. So great has the
success been with this preparation in New Zealand that the
proprietors have made arrangements to place this won-
derful medicine on the Australian market. The public
are requested to call at the Orlando Pearson Pepto-chlor
oaice, Sydney Stock Exchange Buildings, Pitt-street, and
*ee the testimonials that have been received from people
in New Zealand who have been completely cured of
indigestion. PEPTO-CHLOR has been recommended by
highest medical authorities in New Zealand. It is
nota cure-all, but it does cure INDIGESTION, being a
powerful aid to the digestive organs generally, and is
compounded scientifically with special ingredients, which
make it a great nerve-tonic. PEPTO-CHLOR is now on
sale by all chemists at 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle, or post
iree from the Orlando Pearson Pepto-chlor Company,
Sydney Stock Exchange Buildings, Pitt-street.
MEMORY.
Pel man’s System.
A GOOD MEMORY
is the surest factor to success. The worst memory
can be improved and developed upon natural
lines by
PELMAN’S SYSTEM
•» MEMORY TRAINING.
WONDERFUL RESULTS.
PERMANENT IMPROVEMENT. « ,
Increases Mental Capacity in Every Case.
Invaluable to Students and Business Men.
Explanatory Book sent Post Free on application
to the Secretary,
Pelman's School of Memory Training
IIELBOURNE G.P.0., BOX 402.
London— i Bloomsbury-st., W.C. U.5.A.—1608 Masonic
iemple, Chicago. South Africa—Lynn Buildings, Dur-
ban- Germany— Mozartstr 9, Munich; France—lo 9
Avenue de Neuilly, Paris.
* PLUM
à
THE
* 8 ? u P eri ? rt .° any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rin
Mloe that fa ■’■■«-^.l eve^ :ye^mres Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind
edpe tw7 S V ,C4U “ CB gimuiug. oeing practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
their merits.' WE GUARANTEE* eTchrXzoRFORT^o"!&!“ "" f ° r * DUmber °* year8 ' °“ t 0
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. Gd.
““AZOLES” LIGHTNINC RAZOR SHARPENER, 6(1 cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, J
l Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
a
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEIM, 680 Sydney.
CHUBB’S
everywhere
SVlanuf. Company,
H a X us a v * s *k 1)0 you want a
WHEELS > or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7:
S-Spnng Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog- Carts
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
"ent. more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
á
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Polirered at any Wharf hr
Railways. Station
£lO 10/-
Are YOU
Like This—?
Sii
If your scalp is
like this, wouldn’t
you like to see it
well covered with
hair ?
Wouldn’t you like
to have it like it
used to be ?
Of course you
would.
TRY
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC.
It’s different from all other hair pre-
parations because it’s better.
You will follow directions, and by-and-
bye you will be gratified by seeing the
hair spring up slowly, but none the less
surely; and in a little while your scalp
will be thoroughly covered wfth hair.
If you will faithfully follow my in-
structions with every bottle, I guarantee
that you will get the above result.
QAPILLA is obtainable at all chemists,
2s. 6d. a bottle : or I will post a bottle direct
to you for 3s. 3d.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS,
Sole Proprietor and Inventor,
164 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. Rrl
Helidon Spa Water,,
A Natural Liquid Food.
From Helidon, Queensland
The Bulletin
Vol. 24.—N0. 1231. J
[Thursday, September 17, 1903.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Booh trade Jfdoertisetnent.
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S HAIL
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Pratt, American Railways, 4s, postage 4d.
Raleigh The English Novel (New Edt.), 2s, p. 4d.
Se Pounding the Field, 2s, p. sd.
Le Queu’x, The Tickencote Treasure, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. fid.
Harrod, Mother Earth, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Truth About an Author, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
The MS. in a Red Box, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Ford, A Few Remarks, 3s 6d, postage od.
Reade, Martyrdom of Man (Cheap Edt.), 3s, p. sd.
Mangan’s Poems, 4s, p. 4d.
Munro (Neil), Children of the Tempest, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Altsheler, Before the Dawn, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Caine (Hall), The Bondman (Cheap Edt.), Cloth, 2s, p. sd.
Prangley, Dreams and their Interpretation, Is, p. 4d.
71 CASTLEREAGH 3T., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) &at Melbourne, Adelaide, CrUbane & London.
For t;lxe LXJKTG-S, tb.e THROAT, tIaeVOICS-
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
&
3
mm
Us
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
1). 'A lobe of one of the lung
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
aINGEB
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug . .
■nin by ALL CHEMISTS, n Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich, Q u ® e P?J?, nc irrt)
■OLD BY ALL K and f QUEEN’S PLACE, and FELTON, GRIM. WADE & CO
free on receipt of stamps.
Melbourne, Agents.
Sydney Depot: 5
THE RED PAGE.
The Other Kendall.
Henry clarence kendall has
been variously set before the world, by
biographers more or less competent'; but
always as one who, save for some adven-
titious or involuntary moments of lucidity and
reason, needed to be apologised for. There was
another Kendall, who, it seemed to me, did not
require or favour apology in any sort whatever ;
who was very much disposed to take the world
fighting; whose lapses were adventitious or
involuntary; and whose actual self, otherwise
established and might have stood out
and been remembered, courageous and strong. I
had a letter from that Kendall some five-and-
twenty years ago. He was at Camden Haven
then; I up above Tumberumba, where diggers
fossicked, cattle duffers lurked, and the polite
world seemed remote. Kendall’s letter was not all
polite. It harmonised with a good many things,
living and lying about.
I envy you your camp under Kosciusko ; you ought to
do something up there, at least you will have a better
chance than in the bitter, bad Bohemia of either Sydney
or Melbourne. And if you eschew Bohemia and get
amongst high-class journalism, as you say (I never found
it), the people to whom you sell yourself will emasculate
you. If you do,anything virile and they accept, it will
duly appear an eunuch.... You think you will find com*
panionship, do you ? /And with congenial surroundings a
man may live a cleanly life and still keep his inspirations
warm. I tell you you were never so lonely in 27 deg.
South-West as you will bein Collins or Pitt street. If you
have got any’ genius, or if any genius has got you, keep
away ! Take it with you to another place of being.
Genius is worse used in the cities of Australia than ever
was pearl by’ swine, and the man in whom it lurks, as a
disease, is just broken yip like oyster-shell and pitched on
to the middens. Did not your friend, Marcus Clarke,
tell you that? He published the fact in even plainer
terms, and yet is himself crook-backed and broken-kneed
with bowing to Rimmon. And yet the Jews and the
bailiffs are with him, and will be till the end.
Kendall, by tlie way, did not like Clarke;
could never even discover excellence in that good
bit of genuine Australian prose, the introduction
to Gordon’s poems.
When we met in Sydney a year or two later
Kendall’s residence was still Camden Haven ;
his occupation school-teaching and measuring up
timber for the sawyers. The only regular literary
work he was “ permitted to do ” took the shape of
odd paragraphs in “The Meddler” column of The
Sydney Mail. I told a political friend, a pretty
good fellow, too, of Kendall’s expected arrival.
“ Last time I saw him,” said he, “ he was coming
out of that building at the corner of Pitt and
O’Connell-streets which looks like a penitentiary
for the correction of literary aspirants. His coat
was green with wear, and split down the back.’
“ Did you take him round to David Jones or do
the St. Martin business on his behalf ? ” The
political gentleman went away with a snort.
When I met Kendall he was not comely. There
was nothing about him physically or sartorially to
beget desire; but once he began to talk none but
a fool could affect contempt. The Lord God had
put a soul in him, and that soul burned on his
tongue and lightened through his eyes.
Swinburne’s “ Thalassius ” was just out then.
I had reviewed it, and was a bit bewitched per-
haps with the wild waves roaring, and tall cliffs
ringing, and the “indomitable soul” which posed
just a little in the frequent climaxes. Kendall
would have none of it. None either of that stuff
which seems to be echoed in some of his own
work (not the best). “Swinburne began,” he
said, “with Atalanta- in Calydon, and -ought
either to have finished there or built accurately
and harmoniously on that foundation. Nothing
in English like the ‘Atalanta.’ If you make
proper allowance for the inferior vehicle of the
thought, I doubt if there is anything in Greek
beyond it. It is virile as a fragment broken off
the Iliad, relentless as (Edipus, musical, sweet,
bitter true—aye :
The gods very subtly fashion
Madness with sadness upon earth ;
Not knowing in any wise compassion
And holding pity in little worth."
“Browning did Greek into English pretty
well,” I ventured.
“Browning! I hate ninety lines out of every
hundred Browning wrote. He only held a panni-
kin full of English, and was always stirring it up
to confusion and murkiness to make people think
it was a vast, mysterious ocean. When he lets
it flow freely, at times there is a rivulet of verse,
clear as crystal. His big things ! You might as
well look for a vision of Paradise in a fortune-
teller’s glass, or for the form and colour of
a thunder-storm in a painted pudding-basin, as for
anything actually great in them. I like his
‘Count Gismond/but it lacks grace. -If Long-
fellow, now, had let himself go—given the bit of
devil that was in him a chance —he would have
gone high.” .
“ Browning seems to express that sort of thing
very well. You will remember the passage—
The sin I impute to each frustrate ghost
Is the ungirt loin and the unlit lamp...”
“ Excellent Browning, yes ! Excellent text for
an excellent sermon. You have quoted it before,
and you worry me. You know nothing of this
city or this people. Isaiah might walk amongst
them as he walked through Egypt for a wonder
and a sign, and they would discover no more than
Egypt did ; you will preach and quote till the
abomination of the desolation gets into the marrow
of your own bones, and then ”
“ What then?”
“Shape your own ‘then.’ Go under the rod!
Hang on to the staff of the dominant conven-
tionalities ! Or. drink, drug, dice, drab! What
does it matter?”
The furrows of his face hardened like crinkles
in molten metal set while in motion. Kendall
had the hardest-lined face I ever saw. It was
like the “old Hickory” of Abraham Lincoln, or the
chiselled granite of Carlyle. But all the hell he
had endured left no bale-fire in his eyes. They
showed clear and kindly always, as did Jonathan
Swift’s, in the worst of his madness.
It was difficult to get him to talk about himself
or his work unless the aggressive bitterness within
drove him to assertion rather than complaining.
“ A man has to do his duty in those places wherein
it pleases this generation to place him. I hey
“ pound ” him generally, as the wise men of Gotham,
U.S., did Pegasus. But there is always a
treadmill in the pound, and he has no wings. I
have to do my six hours daily up such steps as
two score of bush infants provide. And, by way
of variety, take a turn with measuring tape and
pencil over a few thousand logs and planks of
cedar. And, why don’t I do something really
big ? It is practicable, of course, and easy.
Charles Badham would make or maintain a repu-
tion for scholarship if he had to serve six hours
a day as amanuensis to Henry Parkes.”
We turned, or tried to turn, towards the recom-
penses, the consolations. He was hard, far-
reaching, and absolutely logical. “Only fools,
and people who have not been there, talk about
consolation and recompense. An angel only
comes to you to impose a task. He flashes the
inspiration, the thought which begets obligation.
And he will swing a knotted scourge later if you
do not take that obligation up.
“‘Thoughts in hours of insight willed ’ is the
text of the proper discourse, is it not ? Only in
the context, if Matthew Arnold had been scorched
a bit hotter, he would have written ‘ must ’ be,
not ‘may.’ ‘Must be through days of gloom
fulfilled.’ Woe be to you if fulfilment fails ! ”
“ But with fulfilment, achievement ? *
Heopened hiseyeswide. “Oh, yes,lhavefulfilled
and achieved. I wrote a cantata for the Exhibi-
tion, and half f tdfilled some obligations in the way
of boots and store bills. And another poem of
occasion brought in another hundred pounds.
And they published me in the papers ; and a few
folks would have had me out to their houses on
show. Oh, yes, there are rewards for fulfilment
and achievement. You may almost hope to be
allowed to lick the fleshpots with scullions per-
manently if—you succeed 1”
He was in a bitter mood. It was difficult to
find him earnest, communicative, and otherwise.
One day, a spring day, at Manly (it was before
the best friend we ever had went into .Norman-
Swiss architecture on the middle hill) he came
momentarily into accord with his own best verse,
and spoke out of his own best nature. There were
perfectly delightful dreamy afternoons in the
Manly of those days. The shadows lay motionless
on the grass. The water on the hither side was
still as tue sky above, and the sea lark scarce
twittering about the farther rocks. Light, large
and glad, and all things germinal of whatever
seed of grace lay buried in one’s conscious being.
His eyes grew soft and limpid. The querulous
speech died in a long silence ; and those rare tears
that are the outward and visible sign of the
blossoming of a strangely quickened soul, formed
arid fell. I think it was rather in self-commune
than conversation that he spoke.
“The soft, white feet of afternoon” were all
about us, and he quoted from the poem wherein
that line shines:
Yea, in my dream of fall and brook,
By far sweet forests furled
1 see the light for which I look
In vain through all the world ...
The world is round me with its heat
And toil and cares that tire ;
1 cannot with my feeble feet
Climb after my desire.
Cannot! Will not, says the world; shall not,
Fate. . . “Sir,” said Dr. Johnson, “ let us take a
walk down Fleet-street! ”
After that day I saw Kendall no more. He
went back to Camden Haven; he went out
on that well-meant but fatal appointment as
chief forester; he ' came back to Sydney, and
died, and was buried.
Ah ! let him sleep ! Surely he takes his fill
Of deep and liquid rest, forgetful of all ill.
So W-B.D. ordered the inscription on his monu-
ment. ’ Some others of us would have had it: “He
began to interpret the parable of Australia.” But
that also is with things which do not matter much.
What really did, and does, and will tor ever
matter, is the mistake made about him his
little life long. Even the Bohemians of to-day
know little of the bitter loneliness of that life.
In Sydney or Melbourne then there was no
literary or artistic companionship of any sort
whatever. A few eminent people toyed with art
and literature in a dilettante style; but their
patronage was only to be won by subservient
respectability. The press did nothing. TillGresley
Lukin got hold of The Queenslander, Kendall or
Gordon or Brunton Stephens would not have been
offered payment for contributions in verse to any
weekly paper in Australia ; and The Queenslander
did not long uphold its unfamiliar departure. A
good deal of genius was stifled in those days, and
it may be that a few in whom the true passion was
strong choked it out, as resolute men do constantly
with a drink, drug or gambling habit. It made a
worse wreck of some lives than any of those habits.
Various developments have made the literary
and artistic life just a little better nowadays.
Kendall was unfortunate, too, in his failure to
grip on with the few really able men of the time.
Charles Badham was chief amongst them. I went
with others to beard that old lion in his den, at a
time when a project was afoot to commemorate
the Australian poet by a something in connection
with the Australian University. He was not with
us in that particular way. He did not seem to
think that an Australian Muse had been, or for a
few generations would be born. An annual
Kendall prize would be fitting enough ; but, for
the doing of a bit of Horace or Virgil into
English ! The old professor came down to the big
meeting whereat a good many people bore belated
testimony, and we hoped that he might repeat for
us the old “Uncouth, unkenn’d, unkissed.” But
it was not so. “ Dando ! dando ! dando ! ” said he
in conclusion, “Give ! give! give! but not the
laurel.” He would gather up anything ever
Australia could produce in that way and lay it in
reverence on those old Italian tombs. If they
meet (the master and the poet) in that pleasant
limbo of Dante’s, outside the Inferno’s first circle
(where it would be natural to seek both) —who will
apologise ?
F.M.
The Bulletin Book Circular , No. Y, 16 pp.,
illustrated, will be forwarded post-free on application.
The Bulletin will publish shortly Dawnward ?—
a booklet of verses by Bernard O’Dovvd (“ Danton ”), being
No. VI of The Bulletin booklets. The issue for sale is
limited to fifty numbered copies, price 2s. 6 d. net. To
avoid disappointment, subscribers are advised to remit at
once to this office.
Phil Mav died on August 5. London papers
say that he had suffered from consumption for several
years, and for months it had been evident that the end
was near. Critical notices of May’s work are pitched in
the highest key. “By Phil May’s death,” says Ihe St.
James’s Budget, “ the world of art has suffered an
irreparable loss. It is no exaggeration to say that ne
revolutionised line drawing, and no artist ever had more
slavish imitators. ... No one has ever been a greater
master of light and shade, and his technique was perfect.
As a line worker he stood on a pinnacle by himself, and a
certain well-known art critic spoke truthfully when he
said : ‘ Black and White is summed up in two words,
The Academy unkindly says that it was when May’s
powers began to wane that Punch discovered him. IM
Athenaeum says his death at the early age of thirty-nine
was not unexpected, “ but is no less a loss to the worm,
since he was unequalled in his own style.” And the praise
of The Athenaeum is always conspicuously cautious.
New Conceptions in Science, by Carl Snyder. A
book all the libraries should buy from Our Advertiser: it
is not worth 9s. to an individual. Snyder reviews the
very latest discoveries in a series of articles, some °i
which have appeared in the magazines. Incidentally,
one may see the psychology of the schoolmen miore
definitely exploded, and David Syme’s soul sent flying
still further into the mist of anthropocentric fflythus. An
interesting and stimulating book, that should be sold at
about three-and-sixpenoe.
"War Is Hell.”
“ "f'kRITISH victory in the Soudan !
i-C The enemy clung obstinately to the
I 9 trenches and were bayoneted in
them.
Nothing could have been finer than the behaviour
of the troops/’
Nothing finer, indeed !
White Christian soldiers, three thousand miles
from home,, in the pay of white Christian
bondholders, bayoneting black Mohamme-
dans for defending their native land, and
setting the example of bloodshed to brown
Mohammedans whom they had already trained
to slaughter.
Good God, is it too much to hope tha.t the day
may come when every sane man will shrink
from running a bayonet into a fellow creature
as he would now shrink from murdering a
baby? .
We look back with pity, contempt, and detestation
on the times of the rack and wheel and fagot
—we who are still in the thick of the Dark
Ages ourselves.
A t rousandfold better to be a true Mussulman
Dervish fighting for his home than one of
these Christian hypocrites emphasising their
barbarian butcheries with chaplains and
crosses and Te Deums and every kind of
shameless lie and blasphemy.
«£*
How they buzzed round about the fires of Smith-
field,
The biacK, perverse, froward, reverend clergy !
Like June beetles round the hall lamp,
Teaching the Gospel and knowing not the first
word of it —
More cruel, revengeful, bloodthirsty than the
ignorant mob they instructed—
Blind, malignant, pompous leaders of the blind.
And so to-day round the fires of war—the flash of
artillery .and glance of bayonets
(But at safe distance impotent)
Again the dismal brood swarms, bysterioal,
smirking, grimacing—
Still as oblivious of all their Master taught,
Still going further than the thoughtless populace
in their lust and frenzy,
Still impious, blasphemous, sacrilegious, profane—
Gloating like harpies over the nation’s sins.
&
Hail to the hero 1
Decked out in blue, red, and gilt, as in war-
paint—
Rejoicing like a savage in a long head-feather and
gold shoulder fringes—
Proud to commit with these adornments all the
crimes for which he would be disgraced and
punished as a felon without them ;
Modestly bearing on his breast a star and ribbon
which say, “I am a hero,” as plainly as the
beggar’s placard says “ I am blind.”
Followed by a brass band and bass drum, which
screw up his courage at a pinch like the war
dance and the tom-tom of the Central African
and redskin;
Vain of his manliness in the field while indulging
in effeminate quarreling over the honours, at
the rate of a month’s quarreling to a half-
hour’s fighting ;
Admitting that he obeys orders without thinking,
and thus proclaiming his complete abdication
of conscience and intellect;
Rushing home from the fray to advertise himself
in the newspapers—
Hail to the hero !
O shade of Cervantes !
Come back and draw for us another Don Quixote.
Prick this bubble of militarism as you pricked
that other bubble of knight-errantry.
Come and depict the hero !
1 . ' ''
(From the German of Bodenstedt.)
Talk, if you will, of hero deed,
Of clash of arms and battle wonders ;
But prate not of your Christian creed
Preached by the cannon’s murderous thunders.
And if your courage needs a test.
Copy the pagan’s fierce behaviour ;
Revel in bloodshed east and west,
But speak not with it of the Saviour.
The Turk may wage a righteous war
In honour of his martial Allah :
But Thor and Odin live no more—
Dead are the gods in our Valhalla.
Be what you will, entire and free,
Christian or warrior—each can please us ;
But not the rank hypocrisy
Of warlike followers of Jesus.
Take up the White Man’s burden,
Send forth ypur sturdy kin,
And load them down with Bibles,
And cannon-balls and gin.
Throw in a few diseases
To spread the tropic climes,
For there the healthy niggers
Are quite behind the times....
Take up the White Man’s burden,
And if you write in verse,
Flatter your nation’s vices,
And strive to make them worse.
Then learn that if with pious words
You ornament each phrase,
In a world of canting hypocrites
This kind of business pays.
— Ernest Crosby, in Swords and Plowshares
(Lond., Grant Richards, 1903).
POTT'S POINT & THE PRISON
“ The British naval authorities have build a
prison on Garden Island, opposite Potts Point.
jr ABY SYDNEY VEBE DE VERE,
B You set the fashion of the town :
m You dance with haughty aides-de-camp;
* Your Paris dresses ivin renown ;
But when the prison opposite
Brings family skeletons to view,
My poor “ colonial aristocrat,”
What will you do 1 what will you do f
2 hose sheer-legs. Lady
Vere de Vere,
Already souvenirs evoked:
Not yet a hundred years
have flown
Since your progenitrix was
choked.
Oh your sweet eyes, your
low replies:
A social leader you may be;
But there was that , around
her throat
Which you had scarcely
cared to see.
Lady Sydney Vere de Vere,
We know from what base loins you come :
Your naughty g.g.-sire prigged spoons,
Your grand-sire made his pile in rum ;
And yet your nose is classical,
You thrill us with patrician charms:
—Since you defy the stud-book thus
What is, the use of coats-of-arms ?
Trust me, Sydney
Vere de Vere,
From yon blue hea-
vens above us bent
The London cut-purse
and his Moll
Smile at the claims of
long descent:
Howe’er it be, it seems
to me
’ Tis only noble to have
. cash; ' <
Bank shares are more
than coronets,
I And real estate than Norman dash.
Sydney, Sydney Vere de Vere,
There stands a spectre in your hall;
Then why resuscitate its twin
To haunt you on a prison wall'{'
Oh, teach your ancestors to rest
Where you have put ’em, lying low:
And tell the foolish A dmiralty
To let the foolish prison go.
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.W.P. : The New English Dictionary is pub-
lished in parts at 5s. each or less : it is not yet complete:
the completed volumes will cost about JS20. Get your
local library to buy it. Chambers’s Twentieth Century
Dictionary, at 3s. 6(L is that which average men can use
most profitably... .W.M.S. : The distances are W
for a canoe ; but you reckon without the Power oi
Love, sir! Amor vincit winds and leagues....
G.H. : Unusable.. ..J.A.L. : Lurid means “
pale : wan ; ghastly and sensational; gloomy, ''no
said otherwise? We do note a tendency to confuse lurw
with “flaming, bloody to make it red instead oi
yellow. Guess that’s because the red in the favourite
“ lurid flames ” has been transferred to the yellow b
more people see flames as “red” than as “yellow.
..J.A. : Read H. Ellis’s Man and Woman, post-
free from Our Advertiser, 6s. 6 d W.C. : Fr?" CI .
Adams over-rated Jephcott, it appears...
Agree with a good deal of article, but disinclined
to fling stones at a whilom comrade until unavoidable.
.Quixote: Can add nothing to what was printed... •
“Bark Tonic ’’declares to “ S. the W.” that “ the thrush
has 32 distinct notes, and is immeasurably superior as a
songster to the blackbird.” We affirm the superiority o
the local magpie to either of them, and decline to print
contradictions.... W.D. : Sell only our own publica ioM-
Send a P.O.O. for 11s. to the F. A. Davis Co., Philadelphia,
U.S.A N.N. : Haven’t come across that book yet.
A.D.E.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and GO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.,ud.
Are by far the most successful Salesmen
or*
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Rabbit and Opossum
SKINS
The Go-operative Woo! & Produce Co. Limited
Wool Stores—PYEMONT.
Head Office and Produce Store—ll Phillip St.
SYDNEY.
Sole Wool-Selling Commission
to the Growers—
|| Per Cent.
Trust Account.
Regular Sales of Wool & Produce.
Prompt Returns.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT,
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agrents,
and Produce Merchants. .
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
THE LEADING HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
*>V;
ft=
m
m
m
Leo la.
Santiago.
(SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GOODS EXCHANGED or MONEY RETURNED.
•-v
•VS£
/r^sr'-
gw*-'
; •/.
A/?/MANILA
grssas
Mo. 1 Manila*
opunw 13
smiHDCHXoa
s«nw
GUARANTEE.—EVERV CIGAR SOUND
AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.VV. oth.States
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
ROMA QUEENS ..
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke
HIGH LIFE MEN DOZAS . ..
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA ELOR, Fine Qualit'
“ LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking ‘
1 ‘ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor „„
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. de Mendoza) 100
Per 100.
Per 100.
HENRY CLAY (Havana Couchas, extra) 50 35 0
36 obo x
REVOLUTION ” IN THE TOBACCO TRADE.
“RED SEAL” TOBACCOt a SS ,o t3b p SI.
“Red Seal”
Dark Plug
Strong & Medium
3/-
per lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Cut
2oz. Packets
4/3
per lb.
Pest Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Plug \
Mild Smoking J
3/6
per lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Cut
4oz. Patent Tins
43
per lb.
Post Free
“ RED SEAL ” is a REAL GOOD Smoking Tobacco, guaranteed BEST VALUE in the States.
We RECOnnEND Smokers to give “RED SEAL” Tobacco a tpi*i
Miclv Simmojaa, Haymarket, 537 dney.
I. Hollis
& Son’s
“THE RELIABLE"
Price J2© 12s. 6d.
m
N?n
m
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top lever, bar action, real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, left choke, rebounding locks snap fore-end
chambered for 2Jin. cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powder.
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
THIS PATH MEN LEADS TO HEALTH.
This is the only true Road to Health and Strength; the only way to obtain Joy and Happiness. All other paths Stave be:n
trodden by most poor sufferers, with what result ? They have had to turn back through failing to obtain the relief they
sought from other so-called Remedies, so that to-day they are still looking for the right road to take, MEN I This is tho
right way S! Thousands have turned this road and are thankful. If you are looking for Health and Strength
- Shun Doctors and Quacks, and Come or Send to us l ——
and we will give you New Hope, New Life, New Strength, and New Ambition by the aid of Electricity, If is the only Remedy
on earth for all Nervous Disorders, Weak Hack, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, and all ailments arising from losses of
Vital Nerve Force in the body.
Or. McLaughlin’s New and Improved Electric left
will cure any of the above-mentioned ailments generally within Thirty Days. No man should be without one cf these
Wonderful Appliances if he wishes to be strong and healthy. It will cure when all else fails.
A More Grateful Man Never Lived
Mr. AUG. E. CARROLL, 112 Victoria Street, North
Melbourne, Vic., says: “Dear Sirs, —I am pleased to be
able to state that I am now quite free from my
trouble. You may remember that I was suffering
from life-long Indigestion, also Constipation, singing
noises in my need, and INCIPIENT LOCOMOTOR
ATAXIA. All these troubles have now left me, and I
feel better now than I have ever felt In my life. I
shall be glad to answer any enquiries from fellow-
sufferers. Such a cure as mine is really little short
of a miracle, and I rejoice to give you my good word
that it may help others.”
*rf.fc.Ca.rroZ2.
His Former Grave Position is
now One of Light.
Mr. JAMES H. FRANK, of Bathurst, N.S.W., writes:
“Dear Sirs,—After taking many kinds of Medicines,
patent and other kinds, although advised by my
medical adviser not to take it, as it would be useless,
which was only too true, for they only prolonged my
sufferings, I purchased one of your Electric Belts,
and after vr earing it for five months I am perfectly
and well cured, and my once grave position is now
One of light. I can thoroughly recommend your
Belt to those who suffer, as it is a sure and certain
cure if properly used, as advised by your expeKs.”
DO NOT BUY AN ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE ABSOLUTELY DECIDED to take NO MORE DRUGS.
FREE BOOK
On receipt of a post card or letter we will forward you one of our Illustrated
Books, post paid and closely sealed, which will give you all information about
FREE TEST.
Electricity and the uses of this great Electric Appliance. To anyone calling
of Treatment. Send or call to-day if you value your health.
we will give you a Free Test and Diagnosis, and explain our methods
The Dr. McLaughlin co.
100 W. Market St., Sydney
Melbourne Office: 2iS!TI3» Sw.mston Street.
2T.3. Office: 54 Wii 15a Street, Wellingftcn.


ã
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
©
I
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
The 'Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
IDINNEFORDS!
I MAGNESIA]
ä
DRINK hit
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
Ask for
KNORR’S
Eleaihf
iade
Dried»
PEA SOUP
It Is. .
Known
as the
Best..
'M,
There’s SECURITY in
BARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Absolutely ClirG
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION, j
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small
They TfliSU the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter’s
Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., F.R.G.S., M.B.Ph.S., London, Botanist to the King of
England during His Majesty’s Indian Tour.
Eczema OLEAC
Cures this terrible itching complaint.
Not a grease. Does not stain the linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6 ; post, 4/10
Used In the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
ANTHOS
FOR
1 THE
HAIR
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Written testimony from well-known medical men.
One bottle in daily use lasts about 4 months.
"Anthos” prevents Hair falling out, Dandruff,
and Irritation. Bottles, 2/6 ; posted, 3/3.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALT. CHEMISTS AND
Melbourne : Foy & Gibsox and all Chemists.
Sydney: PATTINSON & CO. (all branches).
Park & Son, 156 Pitt Street.
Depot: M. H. HORWITZ, 34 Pitt Street.
New Zealand: C. L. Best, Ponsonby, Auckland.
Adelaide: Harris & Kemp, Arcade.
Brisbane: Taylor & Colledge Ltd.
Perth: For & Gibson.
Colonial Representative : Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
å
■." i
m
* m
K'te
Darkroom
Noui
w-;.'
f 1 ■’WvM'paK
ww
v
\
®^ND/y4>joi
IKSi***
IiEVERYTHI^
"'IUIYLI GHTI
%Msflfalq(}i/e' M \
10/Bjn tion this paper
!2»GOLUNS ST
lISSiiSMELBOURNE.
JPe/n/mfSo/i
RIFLES AND SHOT-GUNS
Are Guaranteed to give Satisfaction.
Peep Sight.
a
Take-down
REMINGTON NEW No. 6 RIFLE—I9O3 MODEL
Is the latest production in a 22 calibre rifle, and is offered at a price that
makes it the best value in the market.
" ' HTCUVUT l
ttebMOk'
Specify U.M.C. 22 Calibre Cartridges.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
Iu Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
“I*o DEJPY COIMfEXITION.
WINES 3 '“‘ lled onlv 01 SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Sea.
Brewery, SYDNEY.
• jH • c -
at ,i
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Treaties. He will send h's Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
■ ! confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Rassmnssen’s ALT ALINE Vitality Pills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair, but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases.
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
RASSMTJSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ADELAIDE : 15 Pulteney St.
E-Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORLIE: 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St
BOULDER CITI = Piesse St.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 23s. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from ... P* A |A9 A Tj
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office— w*' u60rg[6 St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-


Z'L
If you are young,
you naturally ap-
(pear so.
If you are old,'
why appear so ?
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
will surely restore
color to your gray
hair, and will give
to it all the
.wealth and
f gloss of ear-
ly life. It
will stop
falling of
the hair
also; and
will keep
the scalp clean and healthy, entirely
free from dandruff.
And it makes the hair grow thick
and long. This is because it is a hair-
food, giving to the hair just what it
needs to make it grow as nature in-
tended.
Iyer's Hair Vigor
There’s a pleasure in offering to you
such a preparation ; while you will cer-
tainly feel a sense of security in using
something that others have used for
half a century.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass., U.S.A.
Cockroaches!
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . ..
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all G iemists.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand”
Eucalyptus Oil
For Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds, Coughs, Colds and
Sore Throats.
CAUTION.—Ask for Bosisto’s
PARROT BRAND,
and Beware of Imitations.
Til Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache. Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover
' to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 103. 6cf.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Reeuit.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.S •W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680*682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Self-Inking Rubber Stamp^s*.
Pen & Pencil Oombined, with any name in first-class
ā
_ style,
1/6
post free.
RUBBER STAMPS.
made to order in any style. Send rough
sketch, and we will send you our Reduced
Price. PHILLIPS & CO.,
(Successors to Gardiner&Cool), Rubber Stamp
Manufacturers, 91 Market St., Sydney.
VERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
VOU need to take particular care at this time of year
. against colds and chills, more especially when throw-
ing off Winter Underclothing for lighter Summer wear,
and the only material which may be relied upon as ar
absolute safeguard from the effects of sudden climat „
changes is VERTEX CELLULAR.
When one wears underclothing of this fabric, he or he
is safe from “ taking a chill” as, owing to its p. .uliar
structure, it operates to retard a too rapid evaj ration
of the body’s natural heat in its insensible vapour—the
cause of the “ chill ” —allowing simply any excess of over-
heated vapour to disperse gradually and imperceptibly.
In its functions it resembles in this respect the true
epidermis and acts, in fact, as a supplementary skin, and
for this reason so many medical men order it for invalids
and delicate children, and recommend it to all their
patients for general wear all the year round.
In addition to men’s singlets, pants and drawers, we
stock linen-fitted Dres3 and Day Shirts. Soft-fronted
Shirts of every description. Pyjamas, Hosiery and
Sundries.
For ladies—undergarments of every kind, Corsets,
Hosiery, etc. Children’s garments and Special orders
made to instructions.
Garments stocked in Cotton, Lisle, Wool, Merino, Silk,
etc., in white, self colors, and patterns, and in various
weights of fabric. Any fabric by the yard.
Call or send for full illustrated price lists—post free.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
73 & 75 King; St., Sydney (3 doors from Geo. St.)
Sole Agents for dSrtex Cellular in N.S.W.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/0 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYEES, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
A BAD TASTE IN THE MOUTH.
It is anything but pleasant to awake with a bad
taste in the mouth. This always arises from a
disordered stomach, and may be corrected by
taking a dose of Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver
I ablets immediately after supper. They cleanse
and invigorate the stomach, improve the digestion
and give one a relish for his food. They are easy
NeS” “ J “‘ w ».tYou
jjQNNINGfOfft
A
mm
WILL CURt .THAT
Hacking Cough
Troublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza.
Asfhma, Bronchitis, Consumption
lARGE&SMALL BOTTLES Yb&2'b
ă
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
tST Send (or a
Catalogue.
ą
Wont Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE t«
buyers of Light
The Best and Cheapest,
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
21/-
/
H. F. SMITH
BRISBANE
21/-
YOU WAR'LL
A Good Timekeeper
at a Reasonable Price.
HERE IT IS!!
A Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch
Warranted 2 Years.
Posted Free to any parb of
Australasia—
-21/-
Send for my New Catalogue— FßEE
H. F. SMITH,
Queensland Leading Jeweller, QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
PERDRIAU & CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 1881.
First Manufacturers of Rubber Goods in Australia.
Rubber Sheet, Rubber Valves, Rubber Buffers.
Armoured and Plain.
For Gardens.
For Steam.
For High-pressure delivery.
For Suction.
Any Sizes
or Thickness.
Of best Quality Rubber.
Will stand any Climate.
A Full Assortment of
all Best Makes.
Best Quality.
Any Size.
HOSE.
TUBING.
ENGINE PACKING.
RUBBER BELTING.
TITAN JOINTING.
To hold
400 lbs. steam.
Won’t Slip.
Up to 36 in. wide.
For High
Pressure Steam.
Will make a tight and lasting joint on any surface and under any steam pressure.
Will stand any degree
of steam heat.
DUGONG JOINTING.
The best Jointing ever
made for Ammonia.
Rubber and Oil Waterproof Clothing .
Rubber Ooata, Boots, Goloshes, Leggings, Oilskin Coats, Jackets, Pants; in fact
everything to keep out the wet.
Enemas.
SURGICAL
Fountain Syringes.
Hot Water Bag's.
Operating Cushions.
Ice Caps. Atomizers.
Air and Water Cushions and Beds.
RUBBER
Rubber Gloves.
GOODS
Elastic Web Goods.
Bandages, Stockings
Urinals.
FERDRIAU & CO. 270 George St., Sydney.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free on Application.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C. P. and C.L.)or Government Stock of
ny of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest,
loans ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any finer
HARRISON, JONES # DEVLIN, L «
Wool Brokers,
Fat Stock Salesmen,
Stock # Station Agents.
Our Charge for selling
Wool of the New Clip
is reduced to
Per
Cent
Being a Consolidated Charge
includes Commission, Insurance
while in Store, Weighing, Cata-
loguing, &c., &c.
Auction Sales held on all advertised dates of Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, and all Station Produce.
Stores and Offices : Circular Quay, Sydney.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Fast.
We dug him a grave by the sea-shore,
We covered him over with sand,
We hid him away for ever,
There, where the wave wooes the land.
We wandered to distant countries,
Tossed on the ocean wave ;
His very name was forgotten
A s he slept in his sandy grave.
Once more in the gathering twilight
We stood on that wave-kissed shore,
And we gazed on the crested billows
As oft in the days of yore.
And there, on the shell-strewn sea-shore,
He came to us once again—
Came through the shifting sandhills,
Came from the grave where he’d lain.
So we bury our past in silence
And live through the rushing years—
Forgetting its grave in laughter,
Forgetting its grave in tears.
Till some day we stand in the twilight,
By the edge of the curling wave,
And find that the sand has shifted,
And brought it back from the grave.
N.s.w.
J.A.C.
The Sea.
I ever loved the sea—all soft sea beaches—
There’s something wooing in a quiet shore ;
One fancies that the waves make little speeches
Or sing lost songs we knew in days of yore,
Or hum some missing air which straightway
reaches
A long-sealed brain-cell, where, in time before,
It clambered back again and sank to rest,
Like the lost bride in that old oaken chest.
V.
G.G.McC.
Song.
We have this life, this love only—
Kiss mo on the mouth, my own !
Dust we’ll soon be through the ages,
And who’ll reck when we are gone ?
Let us take what love can give us ;
We’ll find naught more sweet and true
In this life-time and this love-time,
In Time’s dreamland, I and you.
What is after’s so uncertain,
Love’s the one thing Life has known ;
And, while we have its dream in us,
Kiss me on the mouth, my own !
N.s.w.
R. CRAWFORD.
At Eve.
There is a gentle ghost that flits
At eve about the home ;
SI e sometimes softly comes and sits
Beside me in the gloam.
I see her sitting silent there
In her accustomed seat;
A vision that is wondrous fine
And marvellously sweet.
Her dear eyes smile into my own,
So real the vision seems;
So life-like have my fancies grown,
I cannot call them dreams.
Sometimes she whispers in my ear
Of days long since gone by,
And then the glitter of a tear
Shines, sometimes, in her eye.
I know you cannot hear her speak—
Her voice is but for me—
And though through all the house you seek,
Her form you will not see.
But still she comes, and this I feel—
Some day she’ll clasp my hand,
And then together we will steal
Into the unseen land.
S.A,
S.T.
Wert Thou But Dead!
Wert thou but dead,
That yearning of the arms that clasp the dark
In long night vigils, when the soul doth hark
For Memory’s whispers—even that agony
Were sweet, if Memory still could comfort me ;
But Memory’s sweetness is for ever fled.
Wert thou but dead !
Wert thou but dead,
Some golden rod from thy fair hair might grow;
A wild blush-rose from thy cold cheek might blow,
And all the fragrance of thy grave would steal
Athwart my heart, and make my senses reel
With past delight—till present pain were sped.
Wert thou but dead !
Wert thou bi t dead,
Ah, then, mayhap, I should no longer crave
The sensuous sweetness of thy grassy grave ;
But—all my passion purified—should feel
Divinest love my anguished spirit seal;
For then from Heaven my starving soul were fed.
Wert thou but dead !
N.S.W.
MAGGIE SULLIVAN.


P| AIR’Q
GOUT k RHEUMATIC
PILLS-
The Great English Remedy for
COUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
tliruuerhout the Australian Colonies.
nypftofisffi
*9
Reader, why not bo able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feat*
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs yon
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries end secrsts
of the Art. It contain*
hundreds of beautiful and
and Is the most elaborate
artistic engravings.
wad expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wi.l send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of j
• life-time. Address— '
&
Prof. R. H. BARR A DEN,
89 Prrr Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
MEN
ǻ
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
'IQCLCoIuns street, Melbourne.
à
THE HOAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
VEGETABLE
Charcoal
Speedily oozes Acidity. Flatulanoe, Heartburn,
Infant Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, Ac. It
destroys ell disease germs, and,absorb!ng all impuri-
tiae la the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
end other Severs. Prevents many an illness.
BKACG’B PURE CHARCOAL POWDHR in
Bottles; LOZRMGR3 end BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
1 Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Hark ‘J.L.B., in monogram,' on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T\EAR SIR,—I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURSI,
Pi *+ street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
æ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, 1$
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Fros, Is.
lend damp for lUtutrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913. Q.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Refreshing and Agreeable.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TOILET SOAP.
A pleasant Antiseptic Soap (containing 10%
pure Carbolic Acid). Should be used regularly
to improve the skin and complexion and prevent
infection. ,
F. C. CALVERT & Co. 3 Manchester, Eng.
BAD COMPLEXIONS
Dry Thin and Falling Hair and Red
Rough Hands Prevented by
CUTICURA SOAP
MILLIONS use Cuticura Soap, assisted by Cuticura Ointment,
for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for cleans-
ing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping
of falling hair, for softening, -whitening, and soothing red,
rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the
form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes, for ulcerative weak-
nesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic, cleansing purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers, and for all
the purposes of the toilet, hath, and nursery. Cuticura Soap com-
bines delicate emollient properties derived from Cuticura Ointment,
the great skin cure, with the purest of cleansing ingredients and
the most refreshing of flower odours. No other medicated soap is to
be compared with it for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the
skin, scalp, hair, and hands. No other foreign or domestic toilet soap,
however expensive, is to be compared with it for all the purposes of
the toilet, bath, and nursery. Thus it combines in One Soap at One
Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the best toilet and
baby soap in the world.
COMPLETE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the sldn of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure torturing, disfiguring humours, eczemas,
rashes, and irritations, with loss c
Australian Depot: R. Towns &
London. French Depot: 5 Rue
Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A,
f hair, when all else fails. Sold tnrougnout tne worm.
Co., Sydney. British Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq.,
de la Paix, Paris. Potter Drug and Chem Corp.,
DIITIPIIDA DCCniUENT Dll 1C (Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
IfU I lllUnA nCOULVtIII IILLo odourless, economical substitute for the celc-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest,
most successful and economical blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-
digestives, yet compounded.
RUPTURE
CAN BE CURED
Without
Operation
Pain, Danger, Inconvenience, or Loss of Time. A genuine success. IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
The acme of comfort and a feeling of perfect confidence is secured from the first hour of using
Dr. Langston’s combined treatment. Write to-day for Treatise No. 12—posted 2 stamps—and
read the CONVINCING TESTIMONY received from all parts of Australia, from hundreds
of men who HAVE BEEN CURED. Used and endorsed by Clergymen, Statesmen, Lawyers,
Physicians, Farmers, Artisans, Navvies, Miners; in fact, men and women in every station of
life. These living witnesses support facts that leave no room for doubt,
VARICOCELE
CURED—No Cutting or Pain.
The stagnant blood is driven from the dilated veins, and all soreness and swelling subsides.
Men suffering from Weakened Nerve Force, Constant Depression, Gloomy Forebodings, Fast
Becoming Unfitted for Active Business Life, fail to attribute their deplorable state to the
PROPER CAUSE. They know they have VARICOCELE, as they have suffered some dis-
comfort on account of it, particularly while standing. But the evil effects due to
VARICOCELE are so gradual that they neg’ect it until the entire system is undermined, and
they are forced to realise that something must be done to prevent them from breaking down
completely. To such sufferers I say, Don’t fall into the hands of Quacks—don’t submit
to the knife—don’t pay enormous sums to so-called specialists for medicines, electric belts, etc.
My perfect, simple device will CURE YOU EASILY, Permanently, and Quickly, without
inconvenience or loss of time. Send for Treatise No. 15—posted 2 stamps.
Surgeon LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.
129 Collins St,, Melbourne; and at 177 Liverpool St,, Sydney.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES*
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. •
I'M EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
A NOVEL PRESENT.
r*
mmm.
PS
m T receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 5/- we will
any address in Australia one of our Hand
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, Kuaranteea
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendan , / •
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King:, Coles
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
tl
i
“ acts like a charm.”
JONES’
Rheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
never fails to curb
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
28. 9d. per bottles
SOLE PROPRIETORS
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
I and 29 Niagara Lane, Metbouro*
EVERY WOMAN
ǽ
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new F£MALt SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly,
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. » Endorsed by Physicians.
wV Times Building, N.V.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by using
RX CO RO’s
R SS£ t * cEof V.X ?
The on!y Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DIBILITYi
VARICOCELE, etc.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life affords relief and permanentlj
cures all who suffer from wasting and withering of th«
nervous tissues; restores Energy, Strength and
Vitality to the most weak and shattered constitution!
(no matter from what cause) and regenerates all th#
important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 368. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Aqents for Australasia —PEBRY & CO., 4-7 Queen St,
Melbourne; N.S.W.— Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
ASTHMACURE
SRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Parle. Sold by all Chemiita.
WILL ANDRADE’S » » BOOKS
ft*
Book of Nature and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Astrology,
6d. How to Dance, Is ;
post, Is 3d. How to
Wrestle. Moll Flan ders ,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Tailoring for
Amateurs, Is. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Mystic Oracle,
6d. Phrenology Made Easy, 6d. Mechanic’s Work-
shop Handybook, Is. Dog Keeping, Is 3d ; post, Is 6d.
My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Georgette,
Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tom
Collins' Such is Life, 4s 6d. All The Bulletin series.
Letter of a Self-made Merchant to His Son, 2s 6d
and 3i 6d ; postage 6:1. Wee Macgregor, Is 3d ;
posted Is 6d. Ethel, by same author, Is 3d. How
to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal GussjCve, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Big Value Premium Budget, 6d.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is ; post Is 3d. Piano
Tuning and Repairing, 1j 3d ; post Is 6d. M odern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's Card Games, Is. ■ ( Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is,.
Horse and Cattle Doctor, Is. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d ; post Is 6d.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; posted Is
2d. Australian Doctor, cures for all diseases,
Is 3d; post Is 6d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, ' Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is. 3d.
Enquirer’s Or acle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Self Instructor :
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, Is. Cabinet
Maker’s Handybook, Is 6d. Cabinet Making for
Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is 6d. Tolstoi’s Resurrection, 6d, post Bd.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’S
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d;
post, 2s lOd. Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made
Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is 6d.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is 3d, post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff's Engineer, 4s 6d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Caros, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 8:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
AND
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE -
I AYNE’S EXPECTORANT
fcURES THE. WORSTCOUGHS.


A Champion Athßete
PAYS THE
Penalty for Continuous Training
And Finds a Welcome Antidote.
The Case of Mr. 8. MAHALM.
(FOR THE LEICHHARDT “STANDARD.”)
To judge from the numerous successes i«
all kinds of sport which have been placed
to the credit of Australians it appears that,
as a people, we possess the necessary
stamina and skill required to excel in various
departments of athletics; but, as Mr.
Samuel Mahalm, of Augustus street, Leich-
hardt, told our reporter, it is quite possible
to overtax one’s constitution, and then
trouble ensues.
“In your palmy days as an athlete -you
did not think that so much training and
racing was likely to do you harm, I
suppose ? ” remarked a Standard reporter.
“I did not give it a thought, to tell you
the truth,” replied Mr. Mahalm. “I was
too enthusiastic in matters of sport to
trouble about the future, but now that I am
all right again I do not regret having in-
dulged in exercise so heavily.”
“It was in rowing that you principally
excelled, was it not ? ”
“Well, yes; I did meet with a fair
amount of success in that line, as I won the
champion sculls for youths under 21 three
years in succession, and was pitted against
some of the old-time champions besides. In
running, rowing, and sailing I won twenty
races out of twenty-seven starts, so I have
not much to complain about in that respect,
although, when my health broke down, I
thought the game was not worth the candle,
as the saying goes. It is an awful strain on
one’s system to keep at such heavy work
continuously, and when I got very ill I
eonsidered that my success was dearly
bought.”
“ What was the first sign you had that
your health was breaking down ? ”
“ Nervousness. The frequent strains
upon my system had a bad effect on my
nerves, for they became so unstrung that I
could not keep them steady, and the most
simple thing in the world could give me a
start and make me excited. I went on like
this for a little while, thinking that I would
soon be all right again, when I was greatly
surprised to find that I was suffering from
indigestion. That was an every-day sort of
complaint, I thought, from which some
people suffered severely through not treat-
ing it promptly, and, making up my mind
that I would not make the same mistake, I
started taking medicine for it."
“ A very sensible procedure,” ejaculated
the scribe.
“It would have been had I known the
proper medicine to take, but I had had no
previous experience, so I took whatever I'
saw advertised, and when one thing did me
no good I tried another, thinking that I
would sure to strike the right one in the
end. Sure enough I did, but it was not till
after enduring several years’intense torture
that a friend advised me to give a trial to
Clements Tonic, but by that time my health
was completely wrecked. The food I per-
suaded myself to take was harder to digest
than ever, and the after effects were much
more trying. A heavy pain settled on my
chest, which gave me great trouble in
getting my breath, especially at night time,
when I often had to sit up in bed, because
I felt as if I would smother if I lay there
any longer, and paroxysms of pain were
caused in my stomach through wind arising
from the decayed food. By these and other
means I was prevented from obtaining any-
thing like a requisite amount of sleep, the
consequence being that when 1 ought to have
been leaving my bed I was too dead tired to
. s . O- S°b so miserably weak and low-
spirited that I felt as if I could not speak to
anybody, whilst the mere thought of doing
a little work seemed preposterous, because I
had no vitality in me to do it. For another
reason I did not like exerting myself. That
was because my heart palpitated and pained
me when I put my body in motion, and I
grew so anxious on that score that I resolved
to take the greatest care of myself and not
throw any chances away. But at last I got
so disheartened that I thought I would never
be well again, a sharp pain catching me
between the shoulders and across the lower
part of my back, while sometimes I could
scarcely see out of my eyes for the terrible
headaches I had. .My tongue was in a dis-
agreeable state, being almost white, and
everything I tasted seemed bitter ; not that
I tasted much, as I had no appetite at all.
I could not have sat in a wager boat for the
life of me, as I had turns of giddiness,
which inconvenienced me even when stand-
ing on my feet. What had once been hard,
solid flesh became nearly all skin and bone,
so that there was no light task in front of
Clements Tonic when I started taking it.
Another circumstance which I should not
overlook was that I used to have very un-
pleasant dreams on any of those rare
occasions when exhausted nature claimed a
couple of hours’ sleep, so you see what a
perpetual drain there was on my system
through want of proper rest ; and nothing
could ease my pains sufficiently to allow me
to sleep, save Clements Tonic, which gave
me a new feeling of content before the first
week was out. It seemed a marvellous
thing that Clements Tonic could have such
a desirable effect upon me so quhkly, con-
sidering that I had been suffering so long ;
and further use of that medicine showed
that all others were outclassed. The lazy
sense of drowsiness which had made my life
so dreary was given place to a feeling of
exhilaration and activity as a result of using
Clements Tonic, whilst that medicine’s
action on my nervous system was more
beneficial than I had ever deemed possible to
be obtained. My nerves became toned to the
state of perfection they were in when I
could go over a three-mile course at a ding-
dong pace ; and I have such a high opinion
of the strengthening qualities of Clements
Tonic that if I were young enough to start
racing again I would take that medicine for
the purpose of supplying the vitality which
is lost whilst training. For putting my in-
ternal organs into a healthy and machine-
like condition, and driving away headaches,
giddiness and chest pains my acknowledge-
ments go to Clements Tonic, which also
claimed my gratitude for remedying the
palpitations and heart pains. With each
bottle of Clements Tonic I came nearer the
end of my afflictions, for I was eating well
and could digest all manner of food. Windy
spasms and back pains were done away
with by the same medicine, and there was
not an ache left in me. I can frankly
admit that my liver and nerve troubles
were quite cured by Clements Tonic, and
you can publish all I have said in any way
you think advisable.”
“ Thank you,” replied our representative,
“ but it is probable some of your old friends
already know this experience of yours.”
“ Some do, I know; but I can’t tell all of
them, as I know so many through living in
this suburb twenty years, while for the last
five years I have been proprietor of the
Leichhardt Swimming Baths.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Samusi Mahalm, of Augusfcus-street, Leich-
hardt, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that’ I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting’’, of four folios, and
consecutively numbered from one to four, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to pub-
lish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and
I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Aot, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Leichhardt, this twenty
fourth day of March, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
W. B. WRAGGE, J.P.
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OP SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
g»AD office WTHYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. CLOTH * 300 4s 6d
From all Booksellers, or the Publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 214 George-st., Sydney, Australia.
FCflft fHE StJ£*H WOttKEir
'jTam-Bu/c
Ointment
A 800THINC BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Bolls, Barooo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Bkln Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JJjJ OTICE TO MffIKLBOimNB VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL., opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10US.
Mr. Skinner haa a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Study Evenings
Wore knowledge AfT HOME _ Wore Pay
Courses offered by mail ;|
Mechanical. Marine. Civil.
Electrical. Snnilary.
Stationary* Locomotive.
Telegraphy. Architecture.
Sheet Metal Work.
Mech. & Perspective Draw’s
American School
Armour Inst.of Technology
Chicago, 111.
1 Write for Handbook.'
160 VICKERY’S CHAHBERS,
BOX 629, Q.P.0., SYDNEY.
Mr. Andrew Carnegie says: “ The secret of
American industrial success is emphatically the
application of brains and knowledge to work, even
in the smallest detail; and the influence of the
Correspondence Technical School in furthering
America’s advantages in this regard deserves
universal recognition.”
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing- to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen. 11
1 ,118 i
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
1&T BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. TKI
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS'S
GRATBFCJI*—COMFORTING^
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUFPEK.
DEBILITATED
TTITEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
* ’ trial course of our OONOENTEATED BOTANIO
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
. Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
. GORED
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
See my proposition to the Government, ,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to 1
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars freo.
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., En*.
129 Collins-st., Melbourne.
RUPTURE CURED
* * B w without opera-
0
Throw »w»y
tion or pain, no detention from work,
or dependence upon Trusses. The
ONLY humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. 10. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
129 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE.
(TNGI NEMAN’S MASTER KEY. -All subjects
“ relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations ;
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also COLE’S,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
THE 48th ...
0-Hour Demonstration
Jjrt Union
) ( Urider sanctum of -
the Attorney-General)
• Monday, sth Oct., 1903.
| Prizes value £1250.
First Prize, value £500; Second Prize, value £100;
I Third Prize, value £6O; and 150 other valuable Prizes
I The Prize Drawing is open to the public and the
. press, and every purchaser of a ticket has an equal
’ chance whether present or not.
| Last year s number of applications for tickets were
received too late for participation in the drawing,
| and their moneys had to be returned. People from a
distance should apply early and avoid this disap-
l pointment.
! Tiokets to be obtained from
A. McDougull, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney,
or from Local Agents everywhere.
The First Prize (a Golden Emu valued at 500 so vs.)
was last year won by Mrs. Swadling, of Edden-street,
Leichhardt, Sydney.
Buy your Tickets Early.
Only One Shilling.
lfor/>bxLel /lights
c/CecLlUrcy Jnf&nU
TRY
RIDGES
3Z* FOOD
Refuse a//fm/faf/ons
SalipJfyifnk Strengthening. Soothing for Infants
.Agreeable.DigestiL’Je, Nourishing
AGFtffS POP SYDA/fY.
SAYf/ts AUPOfir * Porrfß
RIDGE'S FOOD MILLS. LONDON.E*c
WEBSTER’S
CARBOLIC
DENTIFRICE
HAS MANY FINE POINTS.
FOR QUALITY, FLAVOR AND PRICE
HAS NO EQUAL
Sold all over Australia.
LARGE TINS, 6d.
INSIST ON GETTING IT.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy •
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
30 Days’
Free Trial
TjiVERY Weak, Nervous, and Enfeebled Man or
Woman will find ELECTRICITY as supplied by our
Perfected and Patented ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELT
a wonderful restorative to robust health and vigor.
TEST IT, FREE OF CHARGE. We ask the readers of
this paper to remember that this offer is made by a firm
with twenty-five years’ reputation in Australia.
We desire that every sufferer should wear this mar-
vellous Belt and test its healing virtues for thirty days,
as we are certain that it will cure, and that the wearer
after the month’s trial will then prefer to keep rather
than return the Belt. Do not miss this opportunity to
regain your Health, for Health mean Wealth, Health
and Strength means Happiness in mind and body.
Enjoy a full measure of life by being strong and robust
to a vigorous old age.
Remember, we givea WRITTEN GUARANTEE with
each Electric Belt that it will permanently cure you. If
it does not we will promptly return the full amount paid.
Send for our ELECTRA ERA and Price List (post free),
explaining our different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also TESTIMONY, which will convince the most sceptical.
ADDRESS : I
German Electric Appliance Company
63 ELIZABETH STREETr SYDNEY.


lUIDY.
Hennessy’s
Hold the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth
of
Genuine Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
£asiro's East Sacrament
Hfia other Stories,
BY ALBERT DORRINGTON.
“ The Most Brilliant Short Stories Produced in
Australia.”
A CONSENSUS OF CRITICAL OPINION.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
"He has been everywhere and seen every-
thing. and he has to no ordinary extent the
power of presenting things as they seemed to
him —the gift of vivid and powerful narration.
. . . . Contains dramatic pictures which the
best of our artists in words might well envy.’'—•
Sydney Moi ning Herald.
“The stories are often filled with incidents
that startle the reader, and emotions whose very
strength makes him shiver. . . . Mr. Dorring-
ton’s warrant as a writer of short stories is that
of absolute genius.”— Sydney Daily Telegraph.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
TWO POINTS OF MUCH IMPORTANCE.
THE
The great success attending the use of the “Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure
due to the two following important facts: —
(l) Their similarity in composition to human milk ; the constituents being in (2) The readiness with which they can De digested and assimilated by
the same relative proportions.
Mixed with water according to the directions a humanized milk is provided.
the infant,both foods being as easy of assimilation as maternal mil
and much more so than ordinary modified or diluted cow's milk
The “ Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates. They are in the
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.,
MILK FOOD No. 2.
Front three to six moi.-.s.
MALTED FOOD Mo. 3.
From six months and upwards, i
form of powder and keep perfectly,
a
Pamphlet on “INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pagfs) free,
from 495, Bourke Street, Melbourne,
Allen 0? Hanburys, Ltd., fPlougd Qourt, Jhombard St.,
Jbondon.
■ > ! ••
America still holds the Cup
and plucky Lipton holds the- Tea. America still holds the supremacy in the manufacture
of Cigarettes—at least if
“CAMEOS” COUNT
and it is not the least improbable that plucky Lipton will console himself with “Cameo”
Cigarettes. Smoking soothes and consoles, and in this relation certainly, “ Cameos ” count.
Don’t you think so ?
à
©r Stress of Weather,
Your personal comfort and security are insured if you protect yourself from tlie elements by use of Ruberoid.
Us® RUBEROID FOR ROORS
Us® RUBEROID for DAMS
Use RUBEROID for WARES
Use RUBEROID for EEOORS
Use RUBEROID for STACKS
Us® RUBEROID for DECKS
Us® RUBEROID for CEILINGS
BUT!
PERHAPS
use it fairly, and as though you really wanted and expected to get full value for your money,
you’d better write the nearest Agent for fullest particulars. Why not?
t' l • v ■ ■ ;
Fremantle, W.A.
J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
A. W. Sandford & Co.
Melbourne, Vic.
Brooks, Robinson & Co,
Launceston, Tas.
Heduey Button.
Wellington, N.Z.
James W. Jack.
E. RICH & CO., Limited
Sydney.
Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0, 1231.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1903.
Pkios 6d.
THE PRESENT POSITION OF AN AUSTRALIAN PRIME MINISTER.
It was at the command of State Premier Irvine that Premier Barton excluded railway servants from the operation of the Arbitration Bill, and
thus practically wrecked his Ministry. The bear is shown waiting for further instructions.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“ Australia for the Austvalinns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
2H George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... .„ ... 0 IS 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six' Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you e.very weak for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved, by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column all contri-
, butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. tohen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To .1 mitten,vs in. ItlacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of suficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon .—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1903.
The Results of Grovelling 1 to Irvine.
The Barton Government reached about its lowest
depth last week, and there is now every sign that
public contempt will shortly bring about its down-
fall. Kingston, the strong, honest democrat, has
left it. O’Connor, the strong man whose political
honesty is not at all certain, but who was none
the less a tower of strength to the combination,
has practically left it. Turner, the safest, most
honest and most capable financier in Australia, is
still there, but Turner nowadays sticks very
closely to his own department, and keeps himself
to a great extent aloof from the wobblings of the
other departments. Probably he would go too
if he could tear himself away from his be-
loved cash box ; but if the Ministry lasts
there is a Banking Bill ahead, also a great Debt
Consolidation matter to.be attended to, and there
are stormy days in view for the States in the loan
market, and there is a great row in sight when the
States at last send in their bills for properties
handed over, and there is a Federal capital to find
the money for. Turner, who loves financial
troubles, probably can’t bear to part with these.
But away from the room where the one remaining
strong man pores over his solitary cash-book and
tries to make 2s. do the work of 2s. 6d., there is
nothing but a weak and futile Ministry trying to
drift with the strongest current, and without
sense enough to find out which is the strongest
current.
* * * *
Premier Barton’s abject servility to Victorian
State Premier Irvine over the Federal Arbitration
Bill was the cause of the latest and worst disgrace.
Under the Constitution, the Australian Parliament
is entrusted with full power to make laws dealing
with industrial disputes which extend to more
than one State. That Constitution embodied the
country’s instructions to Premier Barton, and he
should have kept his eye on those instructions and
on nothing else. There is no hint in the Constitu-
tion about giving the benefits of arbitration to one
section of Australians and not to another. There
is no authority whatever for depriving any Aus-
tralian of the privilege which another Australian
enjoys. The fact that, by bringing State em-
ployees under the Act, the calculations and the
sweating projects of State Treasurers might be
upset has nothing to do with the case; whether the
man whose calculations are based on sweating
is Treasurer of a State or of a ham shop, it
is all one, so far as the Constitution says.
When the Constitution authorised the Federal
courts to arbitrate in all industrial quarrels
extending to more than one State it must be
taken as having meant just what it said. And
of all the disputes which are liable to spread to
more than one State, railway disputes are likely
to be the most disastrous. They are liable to affect
the largest number of men, and to cause the
largest amount of loss. They are calculated to
paralyse more industries than any other kind of
dispute can do. They are the only disputes which
will almost inevitably spread to more than one
State, for the railways form a network which takes
i i S.A., Victoria, N.S.W. and Queensland. If
the Arbitration clause in the Australian Constitu-
tion meant anything at all, it was certainly
intended to include railway employees; when they
are eliminated there is hardly enough Federal
arbitration left to be worth talking about.
* * * *
The Arbitration Bill, as originally presented to
the Australian Parliament, did cover State rail-
way employees; so far the Barton Government
recognised its duty. Kingston was part of the
Barton Government then, and while that strong,
honest democrat was there it was something very
different from the spineless show it has since
become. But Kingston retired, and Turner
locked himself up more and more from his un-
congenial colleagues, with his cash-box for com-
Eany. Also State Premier Irvine of Victoria
egan to issue orders. That truculent person
pointed out that he and Bent couldn’t kick
those of the Commonwealth’s subjects that were
in their employ to his and Bent’s complete satis-
faction unless the said Commonwealth subjects
were expressly excluded from the privileges other
subjects enjoyed. He explained that Bent’s
roar and denunciation would be interfered with.
He demanded that, though the Commonwealth
Parliament represented all Australia and was
supposed to do equal justice to all Australia, it
shouldn’t do equal justice if thereby he and Bent
would be interfered with. He didn’t say that
Arbitration was anything save a fair and just
idea; he merely said, dr implied, that he and
Bent couldn’t get along comfortably when fair-
ness and justice were on deck. Irvine’s arrogant
demand that a large section of the Common-
wealth’s subjects should be denied the benefits of
the Commonwealth’s law, and handed over to him
to be kicked with impunity, would have roused a
real MAN to say something very unpleasant to
Irvine, especially as Irvine was the person who
not long since grossly insulted the Common-
wealth Government by introducing a Bill which
purported to give any Victorian policeman power
to arrest the Federal Postmaster-General if he
circulated through the mails papers that Irvine
disapproved of. A real man would have made
Irvine apologise for that foul and bumptious
insult before holding any further communication
with him. But Barton, who seems to be a good
deal less than halt a man, took his orders respect-
fully from Irvine, and altered his Bill accord-
ingly.
* * * *
Premier Barton, the easy-going time-server,
the opportunist, the man who is always looking
for the line of least resistance, promptly agreed to
exempt State railway servants from the operation
of the Federal Arbitration Act because he
fancied the voice of the people went that
way. Premier Barton knows so little of the
voice of the people that if he found it tied
to the decanter in his club with a label on it, he
probably wouldn’t recognise it even then. Much
lounging in clubs, and much association with the
habitues thereof, have created in his mind an
erroneous impression that the voice of the people
is something in a top-hat and a frock-coat, and a
large waistcoat with jewellery on it. The great
mass of the people outside clubs lies outside of his
life. But the House of Representatives viewed
the matter differently. It held that Australia had
not supplied Premier Barton with a Parliament
and Ministerial colleagues in order that he might
go outside them and take orders from petty State
functionaries. Even if State Premier Irvine re-
presents Victoria in this matter, which is not at
all certain, it objected to Victoria running the
Commonwealth. It was resolved that Australian
legislation should not be shaped by the importers
that Premier Barton meets at his club. In a
House wherein 61 members and the chairman
were accounted for out of a total of 75, it was
resolved by a majority of five that the Arbitration
Act must include railway employees. And, bad
as was the Government’s defeat, it would have
been much worse had not such Oppositionists
as fanatical - individualist Conroy and Tory
M‘Millan, whose votes only go with the Barton
Ministry when it is doing something exceptionally
foolish, been for this once on its side.
• • •- •
The Barton Government has not resigned ; it
has decided to totter along with ignominy. Having
first included the railway servants in the Arbi-
tration Bill, and then excluded them at the
bidding of an arrogant State Bumble, it
hadn’t the courage to turn another somersault
and include them again. Therefore it dropped
the measure, just as Premier Reid dropped his
Local Government Bill in N.S.W. under exactly
similar circumstances. This line of conduct
has completed the breach between it and its
democratic supporters, and it can only hope to
live now on the forbearance of its enemies till it
reaches the end of the session and gets a chance
to argue the point with the country. The country
is not likely to treat it with much respect in the
matter, for the country isn’t Irvine, nor is it
Bent. Whatever view the country takes on the
main question at issue, the fact that the Barton
Government got into its present position through
its servility to a mere State Premier, and
through taking its orders from Irvine instead of
from the Australian Parliament, makes it look
small, pitiable and contemptible. In the division
all the K.’sC.M.G. (Bonython, Fysh, Barton,
Quick, Turner, Forrest, M‘Millan, Lyne and
M‘Eacharn) were on the beaten side. For a
Government which professes to administer the
most democratic constitution in the world to get
the support of nine K.’sC.M.G. at a crisis is
a disastrous symptom. No alleged democratic
Australian Government can stand the support of
so much K.C.M.G. as that.
The Australian Parliament.
The first Australian Parliament closes its life in
a blaze of excitement. In its youth and adult age
it pursued a humdrum course, arousing no great
glow of enthusiasm, shining certainly as a
bright deed in a bad world when compared with
the State Parliaments—but devoting itself under
Premier Barton’s leadership, to a strenuous
avoidance of energetic virtue. Wherever an easy
path was possible, it was taken. The spirit of
compromise was ever hovering over the grandiose
building which housed the Parliament—that hall
of stucco ornamentation and lavish gilding, a
sermon in gaudily-colored mud on the extrava-
gance, the sickly “ loyalty” and the shoddy
taste of boom-time Victoria. But in its
old age a fever came into the blood
of Parliament and in om? short week the
whole fabric of laboriously buttressed compromise
and ingeniously designed humbug was swept
aside. On Sept. 7th the Barton Government
was jogging along in its ambling gait of com-
promise, the Labor party following, a little
sullenly, but with no hint of revolt. The Reid
Opposition was toiling painfully in the far rear,
the sharp yap-yap of Representative Conroy re-
sounding always, like the cry of an angry bullooky
with a bogged team. The only suggestion of
trouble was in the spectacle of Kingston sitting
in grumbling hostility on the cross-benches.
That lie would burst out with reproaches one
day and definitely declare against Barton
was certain, but no one imagined that the
outbreak would be dangerous, would even seri-
ously disturb the gentle, ruminative gait of the
Ministry. On September 10 Parliament adjourned,
with the Government defeated in both Houses
and holding office only by the grace of its oppo-
nents; with Kingston in more or less open alli-
ance with Reid, and the Labor party in savage,
uncompromising hostility to the Cabinet; with
the dismal cause of the Foreign-trade party prac-
tically abandoned by Reid.
* * * *
All through the session the Labor party had
been kept in the shafts pulling the Government
coach along—sometimes through unpleasant mud
—for the promised reward of a Federal Industrial
Arbitration Bill. To secure this, Labor members
had made many concessions—sometimes much
against their grain. As the time came for the
political P.N. to be met, the Government of Com-
promise became uneasy. Kingston, in whose
charge the Bill was, drafted a measure which on
every side bore the mint-mark of his fearlessness
and his thoroughness. The Tories stirred uneasily.
John Forrest, their champion in the Cabinet, got
the ear of Barton ; and the Argus and the Kya-
bramistsand Irvine put their fears before him. The
first sign of trouble was the resignation of King-
ston. Then the Government brought down a
poor, emasculated, harmless Arbitration Bill, war-
ranted not to arbitrate in most cases. The Labor
party and Kingston announced their intention of
putting the Bill into shape. The Barton
Government resolved then to wreck it, imagining
that the Labor party could be coaxed back into
good humor easily enough. It was in that idea
the mistake lay. The wrecking was done ob-
viously, quite intentionally, and most clumsily.
Lyne and O’Connor were both away at the time,
and Turner was taking no interest in the matter
at all, sitting in the Chamber and blinking ab-
stractedly as the moves of the game progressed.
The clause expressly excluding State employees
from the benefits of the Arbitration Act was
reached; the Labor party.moved an amendment to
do away with that exclusion. Deakin explained
that the clause had been put in “to test the feeling
of the House,” and was careful to correct a mis-
taken argument that the Constitution gave no
power to the Commonwealth to apply industrial
arbitration to State employees. He practically
invited the House to carry the amendment. The
Labor members were full of joy, and began to
muse over the coyness of the Government which
now gave them what had been at first refused.
The amendment was carried, the Government
making no special effort to object. Then the blow
fell. The House was adjourned, and the next day
the Bill was dropped. By this trick, so clumsily
obvious, the loyalty of the Labor party to the
Government was shivered to atoms.
* * * *
Events then rushed on breathlessly. Reid
arrived in Melbourne and probably came to a
definite understanding with Kingston. It was
generally surmised that Kingston was willing to
co-operate with Reid, provided the latter dropped
Freetrade. The Labor party had a short, angry
caucus, and it also soon came to an understanding
with Reid. It was only necessary now for Reid
to give the sign and the Government must go. A
motion for adjournment moved by him seemed at
first to be the tolling of the execution bell. Then
it was made clear that the time to strike had not
come, and the Government enjoyed a brief
respite—if it could be so called.
* * * *
Reid had another thing in view. The Electoral
Bill, empowering next elections to be held on the
old divisions, was not yet through the Senate.
The Opposition leader had great hopes that it
would be killed there. He had been personally
whipping up his., party in the Senate to
reject or seriously amend the Bill. In that case
the elections for the House of Reps, would have to
be conducted with each State as a single electorate.
N.S.W. would, under such circumstances, prob-
ably return “ the Freetrade bunch” to a man, and
the Protectionist and Labor constituencies would
be disfranchised. Such a bit of gerrymander-
ing commended itself at once to the Opposition
leader. The Labor Senators were actively can-
vassed by Reid personally to trap them into join-
ing in the plot. But they were too clever for that.
“ Do I look the sort of chap that a man would try
to sell a gold brick to ? ” one Labor Senator was
asking in the lobbies. “Well, no, but why?”
“ George Reid just came to me and told me that
he had formed such a high opinion of my
capacity and my intelligence that he would
like to discuss the affairs of the nation with me at
regular intervals. He was in need of an honest,
sound, highly intellectual man on whom he could
lean in moments of doubt and difficulty, and I
just filled the bill. Then he started to speak about
the Electoral Bill. Now, if you had a gold brick
to sell, would you pick on me as a likely cus-
tomer ? ” And he walked away, mournfully com-
plaining that his friends, who had persuaded him
that he looked as though he were at least threatened
with intelligence, had deceived him. The Labor
senators did not support any Reid gerrymander,
and the Electoral Bill went safely through.
* * * *
At this stage, Reid and the Labor party were as
two men in a dark passage, moving to a common
goal—each with a knife, and each resolved not to
let the other fellow get behind him. The Senate
had given a kick to the Government in another
matter. The Eastern Extension Cable Co. agree-
ment, by which the Commonwealth surrenders its
right to give preferential treatment to its own
cable as against the E.E.C. Co. private line, came
up for final ratification. The Senate had a majority
against the agreement and when the Government
attempted to force a resolution of approval
through, the House carred a hostile motion for
adjournment. Thus on one day the Government
was defeated in both Houses simultaneously on
vital points of policy.
* * * *
The personalities of the Australian Parliament
have changed notably this session.. Kingston
is now an ill man, and probably feels that he
cannot take up the responsibilities of leader-
ship, even though the democratic demand in the
House is unanimously for him. He seems to be
willing, however, to lend aid to Reid —provided
Reid “drops the Freetrade tommyrot.” Barton
is better, physically and mentally, than he has
been for some years. His convivial tumbler now
contains milk and hot water, and he never tires of
enlarging to members on the merits of this bever-
age. Thinner than of old, haggard and pale,
Barton yet is fresher in mind and body, and
every day he seems to improve in health. In
verbal encounters with Reid he shows a wit,
a vigor, and a courage that he long lacked. It
is a pity that the better Barton of to-day
should have gone over so absolutely to the
Tories, the State-frigh cers, and other enemies of
Federalism. George Reid, too, is physically in
good form : he has been indulging in physical
culture and Turkish baths to get his bulk down.
Deakin was profoundly disappointing during
crisis week. Whilst the other men, moved with
indignation, were showing the best and strongest
sides of their characters, his weak amiability was
exposed in cruel contrast. Deakin’s speeches
suggest a man whose memory has mastered his
intellect. Mostly they are made up of potted
phrases. When the occasion is big and he has had
time to prepare, the potted goods are of the best
quality with a flavor of eloquence—but, still,
merely potted, not fresh, and with no blood in
them When Deakin speaks in debate unprepared
he dribbles out all the old hack expressions and
quotations of the weary penny-a-liner ; the stuff is
like the carrot mash of a cheap jam factory.
Dea kin’s speeches never arouse, though they occa-
sionally entertain, the House. George Turner,
the patient financier, seems to take no interest at all
in most political issues. Attending the House
regularly, he si„ts on the Ministerial bench resting
his chin on one clenched hand and blinking behind
his spectacles. He is adding things up and
calculating the effect of sinking funds at compound
interest. In the case of a change of Ministry, the
Labor party should urge his inclusion in any new
combination, and he should come in and blink
arithmetically by the side of Kingston or
Reid ; Turner deserves to be perpetual
Treasurer of Australia. J. C. Watson’s grip on
the House of Reps, is astonishing. He is evi-
dently fitted for power; with increasing autho-
rity he has shown increasing vigor, increasing
firmness, and no progressive head-swelling.
Hughes, the next man in the Labor party, is
getting back to his old State form, after a
long illness. Some FederaF members have not’
yet been able to understand the high repu-
tation he won in N.S.W. ; they soon will.
A most popular Oppositionist is Conroy, in spite
of his bitter bark. Conroy always talks as Sir
Oracle, with a warning against any rival yap ;
and, as Watson pointed out the other day, no
sensible dog would try to compete with him. But
the House credits Conroy with sincerity, and
views with half-tolerance, half-admiration, his pose
as a master of political economy.
* * * *
In the Senate, the most conspicuous figures are
the big South Australians. In Kingston, Downer,
M ‘Gregor, Symon, and Baker— four of whom
are in the Senate—S. A. sent a most notable quin-
tette to the Parliament. The mutual hatreds of
four of these give the initiated some amusement.
The Senate’s average of ability, in spite of some
weaklings, is very high, yet the House shows
sometimes a jealousy as to its position which
would argue small-mindedness. It is haunted
ever by the fear that it will be classed as a mere
Upper House. O’Connor was away the week of
the crisis, and Keating, of Tasmania, was doing
his best to maintain the O’Connor tradition in
manipulating the House ; he is the Government
whip and shows great acuteness, which is aided by
his personal popularity. One of the jokes of the
House is Senator Alexander— haw— Perceval
Mathkson, whose clothes are cut in England and
whose bleat comes from the best Oxford maker.
Mr. Matheson is fond of talking lineage, and
pointing out that he is a—haw— Perceval. The
growth of a national feeling in the Australian Par-
liament is remarkable. Scores of members entered
the Legislature anti-Federalists. Now, excepting
a very small section who have no minds to change,
every member is at heart an Australian, and
not a Victorian or N.S. Wales man or Tasmanian.
A few still disguise their real feelings to pander
to the State frights people, but the real feeling of
the Parliament is genuinely Australian. The
Legislature has “ found itself ” already.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Pall of Philp.
Just at present it is difficult tip say anything
definite about the political situation in Queens-
land, save that Philp has handed in the resigna-
tion of the longest and worst Continuous Ministry
ever known in Australia ; and that Browne,
leader of the Labor Opposition, has been “ sent
for” without much hope of forming a Ministry.
Philp didn’t fall as a matter of immediate
necessity ; his majority had certainly got down to
two, but on the face of things Philp, with a
majority of two, should be better placed than
Browne, with a minority of two. If Philp’s
party could be permanently got rid of, and the
Continuous Government brought to an end,
that would be a good thing on any terms. The
Continuous Ministry has a record of extravagance,
corruption, Toryism, and shameful incapacity
that it would be hard to equal- Yet it
is a pity that it should have gone down, not by
reason of its big loans, its deficits, its Kanaka
policy, its poll-tax, its servility to the rich," its
oppression of the poor, its faking of the vote,'its
frantic anti-Federalism, or any of its other sins;
but because it tried at long last to levy a little
much-needed taxation on the bounceable importers
of Brisbane, and because it and the Courier
haven’t been on speaking terms since it refused
that paper a large advertisement. It is a pity,
too, that the vote which brought the Queensland
Democratic party almost in sight of office should
have been a vote against the proposed stamp
duties—-so much needed for revenue purposes.
It wasn’t a vote that these duties were inade-
quate ; or that they should be increased and
supplemented by a land tax, but a straight-out
vote on the question whether the Brisbane
Fatman should be taxed or not. The Labor
members could hardly help voting against
the proposed duties because of their inadequacy,
and they couldn’t help the Cowley crowd, which
voted as it did because it regarded any taxing of
the Brisbane Fatman as an outrage, from lending
its undesirable support; yet the situation was a
complicated misfortune none the less. And it is
difficult to see that much good can be done with a
party which is partly honest democratic senti-
ment, partly soured and embittered Courier, and
partly outraged Cowley. It may be, of course,
that in the general shaking up of things something
better will eventuate than seems at present
probable. But, on present appearances, it doesn t
seem at all certain tha,t Queensland is done with
its Continuous Government.
The “Herald” and “Telegraph’s” Boycott.
With the prospect of a democratic rival in view
the S.M. Herald and Sydney Telegraph have
demanded that all their agents shall sign a docu-
ment pledging themselves to sell no Sydney
morning papers except those two—any breach of
this and a large number of other conditions to be
followed by instantaneous stoppage of supplies.
How they reconcile this truculent demand with
their beautiful gospel of freedom of trade and free-
dom of contract doesn’t appear—probably they
don’t reconcile it. If a trades union attempted
any such gross act of tyranny, the two papers
would call its conduct boycotting, conspiracy, a
shameful interference with the liberty of the
subject, and so on. The S.M. Herald, which
seems to have some sense of shame if its con-
temporary hasn’t, defended its position last Satur-
day by publishing this :
The proprietors of the S.M. Herald have requested t e
news agents selling that paper to agree to the conait
that they shall not sell any other daily morning pap
than those they now handle. An attempt is being ma


by interested parties to represent this action as boy-
cotting a certain proposed new daily paper. This is an
unfair and misleading view of the situation. The pro-
moters of the proposed new venture have issued pam-
phlets and circulars abusing the Herald, and now wish
to circulate their journal, if it should be published, by
using the machinery for distribution which the Herald
has built up in the city and suburbs, and throughout the
length and breadth of the land. It is open to them to
appoint their own agents, and distribute their papers by
other means; consequently there can be no boycott.
Our agents will recognise that we have always treated
them fairly and courteously, and as liberally as the
burdens imposed upon us by the Commonwealth and
State Governments would allow. Having done business
with them for many years on the pleasantest terms, and
to our mutual satisfaction, we claim that it would be
unfair to use against the Herald the position they have
gained by co-operation with us. On the commonest
grounds of business equity we have a right to ask new-
comers in the field of journalism to find their own means
of distribution, as we have done in the past, and not to
pose as martyrs and talk of tyranny and boycott because
we decline to allow the friendly services of our agents to
be used against us.
This attitude of paternal bunkum would be
justifiable enough if the S.M. Herald had
created the news-agencies which circulate its
papers, but it did nothing of the kind. The news-
agent has to find his own shop and his own capital,
and to show that he is a reliable person ; then he
sells the Herald and pays the proprietors for
it, to the enrichment of John Fairfax and
Sons. John Fairfax and Sons have no more
right to dictate to him what he shall sell
besides the Herald than he has to dictate to
them what enterprises they shall go into apart
from their leaden paper. It isn’t a question of a
new paper finding its own means of distribution
just as the Herald had to do. Certain means of
distribution exist. The Herald didn’t make
them. They grew up by private enterprise and
they, to a great extent, made the Herald. Now
it and the Telegraph demand that these means of
distribution, which they are allowed to use freely,
shall be used by no rival. Probably, if they dared,
they would also demand that the railways should
carry no Sydney morning paper except the
Herald and Telegraph but that newcomers in
the field of journalism should find their own
means of distribution in that direction also. The
Herald and Telegraph had as much to
do with creating the railways which carry
their papers as with founding the shops which
sell them. There would be no more boycott
in ordering the railways, if they thought they
could control the railways, not to carry a rival
paper, than in ordering the shops which they
think they can control not to sell it. The
rival paper could obviously be distributed by
balloon. What has Parliament to say to this
gross interference with the liberty of the subject ?
The New Propsting.
Premier Propsting, of Tasmania, begins to im-
prove upon acquaintance. The first Propsting
that we knew—the one who was so cordially
backed by the anti-income-tax push—looked un-
desirable. The Propsting who muddled the
smallpox outbreak so badly, looked foolish. The
Propsting with the bogus surplus of about £7OO
(manufactured by using the great bulk of the loan
funds as revenue and by not providing for £lO,OOO
or £20,000 of special expenditure) looked nefarious.
But a fourth and far more promising Propsting is
n °, w OR view—the one who has come forward with
this programme, and thereby given Tasmanian
Toryism the largest shock that it remembers:
Abolition of the Legislative Council as a separate
Chamber (the two Chambers are to sit as one).
Reduction of the Governor’s salary to £l5OO a year.
A Truck Act to clip the talons of the sawmill-store-
keeper and sweating contractor.
Liberalisation of Mining Act.
Early closing of shops.
Efficient factory inspection.
Compensation to injured workmen.
Increased Land Value Tax.
Double.land-tax on absentees.
Self-assessment of land values.
Amendment of Employers’ Liability Act.
Simplification of Supreme Court practice and adminis-
tration.
Adult Suffrage.
Arbitration Act for the settlement of labor disputes.
Compulsory' acquisition of estates for closer settlement.
One of these measures—the proposal to abolish
the Upper House as a separate body, but to let it,
with its property franchise and its Tory tra-
ditions, sit as part of the Assembly—is only a
very moderate kind of reform. It was Neil
XiEWis’s idea, and it wasn’t his best idea by a long
way. The other measures are all good, if
vigorously carried out, and the only question is
how far Propsting’s vigor extends. Certainly,
he has started well—more than well, in fact. His
land-tax proposals run from |d. in the £ on small
estates to 2d. in the £ on very large ones,
absentees to pay double in every case. That pro-
posal is the best news that Tasmania has heard
for many years. It is a direct and vigorous
attack on the great V.D.L. Co. absentee incubus,
and is such a large and comprehensive reform
that it will in itself lift Tasmania out of the rut
of very old Toryism, and give it a long start along
the road of Progress. If the Propsting scheme
is carried, it will put Tasmania far ahead in this
respect of Victoria, N.S.W., Queensland or
Westralia, and, as far as concerns the
absentee-tax, ahead of Maoriland and S.A. as
well. The only question is whether Propsting
is strong enough to fight the Propertied Chamber
•—the House of Dodery and Dobson —to a finish.
That House is now a raving lunatic, and is
hurrriedly putting its least gouty foot foremost in
the march to battle, and breathing forth threaten-
ings and cannon and ammunition. Still if Prop-
sting is willing to fight, even to the extent of
stopping supplies and letting the machine of State
go on strike till the House of Dodery caves in,
he will win. The House that is cumbered with a
big waistcoat and a burnished hat can’t “scrap”
much if it is tackled by an enemy who is utterly
regardless of Marquis of Queensberry rules.
Anyhow, The Bulletin wishes Propsting well.
If he is as good as his programme, he is a very
different Propsting from what this paper sus-
pected.
♦
Willoughby Election.
The return of Gregory Wade at Willoughby
(N.S.W.) election is presumably a triumph for
somebody, but who that somebody may be the
Lord alone knows. The new member represents
the same set of vague moral precepts as did the
old member. Willoughby is a suburb of little
red-tiled villas, straw hats, cheap gentility, and
tennis, and the fact that the Labor candidate (at
least the daily papers so described him) scored
1079 against 317 recorded for the Labor candidate
at the general election is a surprise in the cheap
straw-hat suburb. Therefore the Labor party,
with a gain of 762 votes, need not despair. The
new member, who stands on the same platitudes
as the old member, gathered in 207 more votes
than the old member did at last election,
so there seems no reason why he should
despair either. Tha't is how the matter stands
so far as persons are concerned. As regards
principles, it seems that some principle has
been vindicated, but what principle that may
be, no human being can tell. Wade stood
for the Carruthers policy, and what the Car-
ruthers policy may be even Oijy Joseph him-
self has never been able to discover. He says
it consists of the Restoration of the Sound Con-
stitutional Principle of True Responsible Govern-
ment, which is exactly the same noise that one
hears when a tin dish is hung up and whacked
hard with an egg-whisk. It is large and poly-
syllabic, and is some relation to the rhododendron
and the hypotheneuse and the epigastrium. Fur-
ther, Wade is in favor of judicious economy,
like everybody else, but whether his idea of
economy lies in not borrowing at all or in
judiciously borrowing £4,000,006 a year, there
is nothing to show. Carruthers was once
before in a desperately economical Ministry
which had a regular annual deficit, and which
ran up the loan expenditure to nearly £5,000,000
in a single year, and which borrowed £11,500,000
in three years ; and the opinions Wade has got are
understood to be the same which Carruthers
doesn’t know whether he has got them or not.
(If this sentence seems confused, that must be set
down to the tangled circumstances of the case.)
Otherwise the party to which Wade belongs is in
favor of all the sound, moral remarks to be found
in a copy-book, and its principles are large, vague
and indefinite, like a good elephant in a dream.
No one has ever been able to extract a clear state-
ment from Joe Carruthers as to exactly what he
will do if he gets into office ; he always retreats
backwards hurriedly into his hole saying some-
thing about the Constitution. And it is under-
stood in a general way that Wade will retreat
hurriedly backwards into the same hole as Carru-
thers, and make the same remark as he dis-
appears.
The Reid Referendum Idea.
George Reid’s proposal for a referendum on the
fiscal issue has been a good deal misunderstood.
What Reid told the Australian Parliament was
that, “owing to the shocking gerrymandering of
the Ministry,” he found it impossible to make the
fiscal issue the test at the next elections. So he
proposed to drop it, and asked the Government
to refer fiscalisin to a decision by mass referendum.
The Opposition leader spoke with deep feeling.
He had just failed, after vigorous effort, in an
attempt to gerrymander the Senate into rejecting
the Electoral Bill and practically disfranchising
all the N.S.W. Protectionist and Labor con-
stituencies so far as concerned the House
of Representatives. If Reid had succeeded
in so loading the dice as to foroe on the elec-
tors a system which would have enabled the
Sydney Morning Herald - Daily Telegraph
ticket to sweep N.S. W, for the House of Repre-
sentatives, he was willing to play fiscalism.
Failing m that, he wished to drop a hopeless
issue which will keep him out of office so long as
he holds to it. That was the vital part of George
Reid’s announcement; he had killed the Dry Dog
and hauled down the Freetrade flag finally. It
was always a tattered and stained affair,
willing to float over high Protection for Free-
trade newspapers, sugar, beer, tobacco, jam,
biscuits, confectionery, and many other items. But
still, ReiO used to call it a Freetrade flag, and the
voters used to take his word —voters being given
to foolishness. Now, however, The flag with its
stains, and the cause with its lies, its hypocrisy
and its cruelty of striving to smash the small,
struggling Australian industry, whilst leaving
unattacked big, influential industries with money
to spend in defence of their rights, is definitely
done with. -George Reid pursues office without
any Freetrade impedimenta. The referendum pro-
posal takes all fiscal responsibility off his si iouh lers.
Said proposal, put forward to cover up his
retreat from an untenable position, was obviously
insincere and unmeaning. What possible hope is
there of the' Barton Government deciding to take
a referendum on the fiscal subject on the plea
that, owing to its own mancEuvring, a fair vote is
otherwise impossible ? But George Reid can do
nothing honestly. Wishing to drop Freetrade, he
hadn’t the courage to tell the lady that he was
done with her and was after a new love. He
must needs invent a high moral pretext for his
desertion. The invention of high moral pretexts
is one of Reid’s specialities.
+
Bargaining in Politics.
The Australian Labor party has been taught a
sharp lesson concerning the folly of bargaining
in politics. At the opening of this session that
party had three very definite duties before it:
to protest promptly and sharply against? the
Naval Tribute scheme, to register a public ex-
pression of opposition to the attacks made' by
Victorian Premier Irvine on the Australian Con-
stitution, and to repudiate the pseudo-election of
alleged Senator Reid to the Legislature. It failed
in all of them, and on many subsequent issues
made serious concessions to the Barton
Government on matters of principle, to save
time, and to save the Government from
trouble. The price for all this service was
to be an Industrial Arbitration Act. Dangling
that before them, the Barton Ministry led-the
Labor members along paths which often deviated
from the way of strict democratic duty. Now the
Labor party finds all its complaisance gone for
nought, and the Arbitration Bill deliberately and
contemptuously destroyed. Having gained from
the Labor party all that he needed for the present,
and having a lively faith in his power to continue
to befool that party, Premier Barton had no
compunction in swindling it out of the price of its
services. It would not have been natural if it had
been otherwise. A party which is willing to
make a sacrifice of one principle for the sake of
another is never credited by the other side
to the bargain with good motives. It is
considered to be guided by expediency and not
by principle, and when the time comes it is
expected to sacrifice the second principle as
willingly as the first. There can be no sounder
rule in democratic politics than this: never bar-
gain one principle against another. A thing
believed in should be held to firmly, utterly, and
without regard to consequences. The idea that
by sacrificing one right cause another right
cause can be served is inherently fallacious. Had
the Australian Labor party taken up an uncom-
promising attitude of hostility to what it believed
to be evil, from the beginning of this session, much
that stains the record of the Parliament would
have been saved; and the Arbitration Bill, if it
had not had a better fate, certainly could not have
had a worse one.
4
The “ Telegraph’s ” Lie.
Sydney Telegraph, in its leading article of
September 9, resurrected an old lie that it hadn’t
been using for some time. For many years the
Telegraph used to periodically draw comparisons
in the Imported Calico interest between N.S.W.
and Victoria. It always started with the lie that
N.S.W. was a Freetrade State, which it never
was ; the Telegraph itself used to enjoy 50 per
cent. Protection. Then it pointed out by inference
that unless Victoria, with only a quarter of
N.S.W.’s area, had more people, more live stock,
more agriculture, 'and more manufactures than
N.S.W., Protection was utterly damned. Then
it lied promiscuously. It was quite refreshing
and suggestive of the Telegraph’s best Ananias
days when these figures turned up in its leader of
September 9: —
1890-1. 1900.
Victoria—Employees .. 56,369 .. 64,207
N.S.W. 47,958 .. 66,135
As a matter of fact, little Victoria was nearly
4000 employees ahead of N.S.W. in 1900—the
figures are faked by comparing Victoria in 1900
with N.S.W. in 1901, when, under Kingston’s
Protective tariff, it had made an advance of 6000
employees in one year. This good old Telegraph
lie has had such a long rest that its reappearance
seems like the return of an old friend. The Tele-
graph, by the way, has the unspeakable assur-
ance to quote Coghlan as its authority, which is
something extra, even for an utterly unscrupul-
ous rag.
+
“ Favorable ” Wage Conditions.
Local manufacturers, in order to secure the benefits of
supplying public works with cement, have been com-
pelled to pay a minimum wage of 7s. per day of eight
hours . .It is estimated that the cost, of producing
local cement is just double that manufactured in Europe,
where, taking f.o.b. price at 4s. Bd., less Is. per cask,
only 3s. Bd. remains for freight to shipping ports and cost
of manufacture. This at least shows what favorable
conditions must prevail in Europe as compared with this
country. —Sydney D.T., Sept. 4.
The workers are occasionally given a peep into a
real Freetrade position by the Freetrade news-
papers. This is one of the occasions. The Tele-
graph contrasts the unfavorable wage conditions
in Australia (where the laborer must be paid 7s.
a day for an arduous, unwholesome, dusty task,
with the “favorable conditions ” of Europe, where
the laborer gets £1 a week or less. The price
of cement mostly represents labor. The raw
material is plentiful, and very easily obtainable ;
it is labor makes it of value. So, if German
or British labor is obtainable at less than
half the cost of Australian, naturally the
German or British cement is produced at
about half the cost of the Australian article.
If, then, Australia wishes to produce cement, it
must either come down to the “ favorable ” wage
conditions of Europe, and reduce the laborers to
3s. a day, or impose Protective duties. That is
the alternative in so many other industries that
The Bulletin can never begin to understand why
an Australian Labor party can be anything but a
high tariff party.
+.
The Bewilderment of an Allegedly Intelli-
gent Citizen.
One of the most depressing articles The Bulletin
ever came across was contained in Jos. Syme’s
Liberator —an interesting publication issued by a
bigoted Melbourne atheist —of September 5.
Syme’s paper struggled in nearly a page of
anguished literature to find out why The Bulletin
so strongly objected to G. H. Reid. The Bulletin
had an idea that, at various times and seasons, it
had made the thing clear enough, but it seems
Fiat, as regards Jos. Syme, it has failed. It
objects to Reid : (1) because he preached Free-
trade and practised a considerable amount of Pro-
tection, and did a mean double shuffle by
pointing to the progress of his protected
industries as a proof of the blessings of
Freetrade ; (2) because of his Gash Basis swindle
whereby he made a sham surplus through not
charging himself with a half-year’s interest on a
great part of the Public Debt; (3) because he had
a series of huge deficits (in one case his shortage
was <£600,000 for a single year), and had the in-
credible effrontery to deny their existence; (4)
because when two independent committees of
inquiry refused most emphatically to certify to
the correctness of his accounts, he had the un-
speakable cheek to refer to their denunciation of
his methods as a triumphant vindication ; (5)
because he increased borrowing, used more loan
money for revenue purposes than any of his pre-
decessors, “gerrymandered” the electoral rolls
and denounced “gerrymandering” as an unutter-
able sin ; because he opposed the graduated land-
tax, old age pensions, and local government;
because he broke his promise to reform the
Upper House, after being twice returned to
power on that issue; and because he lived
on the Labor vote and has the coarse
effrontery to denounce the Barton Government
for doing likewise, and at the same time is
bargaining for a chance to live on the Labor
vote again; (6) because he exists politically to
crush Australian industry for the benefit of the
importers; (7) because he was, while Premier of
N.S.W., a mean slanderer who heaped up deficits
of his own and called them the “ Dibbs deficit ”;
(8) because he “yes-noed” on the Federation
Bill; because he changed sides three times on the
±edera! Judiciary question ; because he has been,
at one time or another, on both sides on every
question of importance—in short, because he is a.
political disease, a silly clown, and a public mis-
fortune. And Jos. Syme’s paper, after vainly
wondering why The Bulletin objects to Reid
can only assume that its objection must have
something to do with priests and R.C.-ism, and
holy water. Jos. Syme is an intelligent citizen
ot a kind, yet he can’t realise that all Reid’s
stupendous faking of the public finances, and the
corruption he brought into politics by his habit of
having huge deficits and denying their existence,
and covering them up by strange juggles, should
constitute any reason why a paper that tries to be
honest should object to him. The idea of public
honesty being a matter of any importance to any-
body seems beyond Syme’s comprehension; and
so Syme falls back on the holy-water explanation,
firmly convinced that the small squabbles of sects
overshadow all national questions. And Syme, to
some extent, represents the popular sentiment.
Australia thinks so little of honesty that Geokgk
Reid, denounced in the bitterest language as a
political swindler by a financial committee, two-
thirds of .which was nominated by himself, is still
a power in politics. In a country where honesty
counted for more than it does here, Retd wouldn’t
find a single constituency that wouldn’t think it a
disgrace to be represented by him ; but Australia
is too like Jos. Syme.
♦
The Upper House and Private
Enterprise.
As a legislating body, the N.S.W. Legislative
Council exerts a malign influence, which is now
fairly well understood ; but it exerts other malign
influences which, not being so well understood,
may be more insidious. Take its influence on the
Public Works Committee as an example. This
committee, which advises Parliament upon all
proposed public undertakings that are estimated
to cost over .£20,000, consists of four members of
the Assembly and three of the Council. Parlia-
ment is certainly not bound to adopt its recom-
mendations; but in 19 cases out of 20 it does.
Ordinarily, in fact, a work gets no consideration
apart from what the committee gives it. Occa-
sionally, no doubt, when a matter of unusual
magnitude is proposed, and when the opinions
with regard to it have been strikingly in conflict,
one House or the other may discuss the matter ;
but rarely does that affect the result. Even when
the Railway Department has reported against the
project (as in the case of the Cobar to Wilcannia
railway) the Parliament has nearly always
followed the committee. The plea usually
put forward is that the committee is a
semi-judicial body, that it takes evidence and
decides according to the weight of evidence, and
that that is just how every proposal ought
to be dealt with. Certainly, most of the com-
mittee’s time is occupied in hearing more or less
unreliable statements as to the number of
pumpkins which Plug Vale could export if only
it had a railway ; and then, having ascertained
the cost of the railway, all that is left is a small
problem in mathematics as to whether the
promised pumpkin trade is large enough, which
can be worked out just as well, perhaps, by a
Legislative Councillor as by anyone else. But
the committee’s functions are not always
of this character. Sometimes the question
is one entirely of opinion—a question, for
instance, between private and public enterprise;
and then the Legislative Councillors may be
depended upon to go solid for alleged private
enterprise every time. The Broken Hill water
supply proposal is a case in point. A Victorian
company, whose business is to earn dividends,
now controls the supply. It might have made the
supply practically permanent, but as that meant
curtailing dividends it did nothing, the supply
failed, and an important industry was thrown into
confusion. Moreover, the company’s existing
supply has been several times officially"pronounced
unfit for human consumption. Almost the whole
of the witnesses whom the committee examined
asked either that the company should be bought
out or that, disregarding the company, whose
supply had proved inadequate, the State should
undertake a separate service. By four votes
to three, however, the committee decided that the
business should be handed over still further to the
dividend-hunting company, and that both the
co.’s lease and its rights should be extended. In
other words, alleged Private Enterprise having
made a disastrous mess of things so far, it should
be rewarded with the right to go on making a
mess of things for more years than previously
agreed upon. And this remarkable recommenda-
tion, seeking to protect Private Enterprise even
after it had failed conspicuously, goes to Parlia-
ment, notwithstanding that, of the people’s four
representatives on the committee, only one
approves of it. The three nominees of the Council
voted solidly for it, though, and so it was adopted.
But it 13 hardly possible that the Assembly will
adopt a recommendation of which its own repre-
sentatives almost unanimously disapprove. That
three elderly gentlemen who don’t represent the
people think otherwise is hardly sufficient reason
to reverse the country’s settled policy that water
supply, at any rate, should be under public
control.
- ■+
The usual row over the Bill has started in con-
nection with Bigjohn’s goldfields water-supply
in Westralia. Finding that the concern was
being run at a loss of £135,000 a year,
and that for every £1 worth of water they
were using, the goldfields were paying about
45., while the other 16s. was coming out of
either taxes or loans, the Government decided to
collect an eighteen-penny water-rate. Even then
the Government won’t get a third of what the
scheme should yield ; still, a third will be a con-
considerable improvement on a fifth. The row is
about that eighteen-penny rate ; the people who
are busy digging up the gold and carting it out of
the country at the rate of two or three millions a
year denounce it as “a cunningly-devised
scheme for their further exploitation.” What
they reckon a fair thing is that they
should pay about 3s. 6d. a thousand gallons
for the water they use; and that when there is
plenty of water in the local dams and tanks they
shouldn’t pay anything. The fact that interest
and sinking-fund on about £3,000,000 will have to
be provided, whether they use any water or not,
doesn’t trouble them; the scheme is a “national
affair,” they fay, and the amount ought to come
out of taxes or loans, they don’t care which. The
Government says it really can’t see its way to pay
more than two-thirds of the rich goldfields’ water-
bill just now; and so the howl continues. Aus-
tralia can any time see a good many pitiable spec-
tacles; but it is doubtful if there is a more pitiable
one on hand just now than that of probably the
richest district of the continent denouncing its
Government because the latter won’t pay more
than two-thirds of its water-bill.
"Cohen at the Gate.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
David Evans, ex-Mayor of London, expresses regret at
our methods of keeping the British investors out of the
country. —Newspaper item.
Bow down your heads and supplicate,
And meek and lowly be,
Swing incense that will mitigate
The wrath of Lombardy.
Throw out the cursed Labor crew,
Who try to legislate
For lowly masses, while the Jew
Is waiting at the gate.
Don’t bar the greasy nigger out;
Don’t cuff the guileless Ohow;
And greet Mahomet with a shout
Of welcome, and a bow.
Be civil to the Eastern trash,
No matter what their hue,
And Cohen with his bag of cash
Will come and pull us through.
Don’t mention hours of work or wage,
We’ll labor night and day;
It might put Cohen in a rage
And keep his loan away.
Throw out the democratic scum,
And offer flesh and blood,
And ask of Cohen will he come
And pull us from the mud.
So kneel and swing the incense high,
And pray for him to come.
Our blood and sinews he will buy,
And make the country hum.
Let arbitration matters rip,
Let agitators wait,
For Cohen with his sweater’s whip
Is waiting at the gate.
N.S.W.
J.F.D.


The equitable life assurance society
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
ASSETS -
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. ..
SURPLUS «
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by
£265.597.775
£19,915,124
£73.855,783
£4,889,175
£15.418.151
£620,434
£6,565,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, eto.
Sir WILLIAM M‘MILLAX, K.0.M.G., Chairman ; Hon. C. K. MAOKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F. 0. COWLEY, Secretary
ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny ” for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Rosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narandera and Sydney. The. highest market price is given in return for •' freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. For fuHher paramtarli
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFFICE-
-70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
NARANDERA
or YOUNG.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Toreador.”
Palace .....; “ Mistakes Will Happen.”
Royal “Twelfth Night.”
Lyceum.. "The Power and the Glory.”
Criterion “ Robbery Under Arms.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Phillip Park Wirths’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s “ Are You a Mason ?”
Her Majesty’s “Resurrection.”
Theatre Royal “ The Golden Ladder.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville 00.
Town Hall. Mark Hambourg.
♦
“ Twelfth Night ” provides the race-week
bill at Sydney Royal, and nothing of Shakspeare’s
could serve the purpose better. The holiday
audience that is out after almost riotous fun gets
it when Sir Toby and Aguecheek’s midnight
carousals bring in, first, the Clown, and then
Maria, and finally Malvolio to make as merry a
scene as ever was acted. But, though there is so
much flue fooling, it isn’t all of that sort; the
burning, rapturous passion of the Duke and the
concealed love of Viola especially give the oppor-
tunity for some of the Bard’s finest lines, and the
Clown’s part introduces some of his best-known
Songs. “ Twelfth Night ” will last a week longer,
giving place on the 26th to “As You Like It.”
** * *
Westminster Abbey Glee Singers have
caught on in Sydney like a new religion. “ Turn
Amaryllis,” sung by the full strength of the glee
at last Monday’s concert, was one of the most
gleesome things heard in the Town Hall. Leonard
Hubbard and Dudley Causton are such favorites
that the audience would like to adopt them—inex-
pensively, of course, and provided the entertainers
would entertain their hosts with song and musical
sketches all the time. There will be a matinee
to-day (Thursday) and concerts to-morrow (Friday)
and Saturday evenings, and after that a striking
of the musical tent.
** * *
The three-year-old “The Power and the
Glory,” which began another run at Sydney
Lyceum on Saturday night, makes a serious effort
here and there to be a little bit unlike other
yellowdramas. In the ordinary course, Miss
Duggan, who comes back to undergo the old
persecution, ought to be happily married to Inman
at the end of the fourth act ; but, instead, she is
the central figure of a transformation scene which
is alleged to represent the Birth of Spring—a
gorgeous combination of girl in tights and sun-
flowers. The girl in tights strike this paper’s
weary eye favorably, but the sunflowers trouble
its heart; lor sunflowers don’t bloom in spring.
Still, they may be dandelions with 10ft. stalks;
in which case the foregoing derogatory remarks
are withdrawn. Prior to the appearance of
the vegetable, whatever it is, Miss Duggan
is persecuted with much success by Lawrence
Dunbar and Miss Guildford, helped some of the
time by Willard, her lawful husband. At the
start Willard promises to go straight; but the old
habit of being a villain proves too much for him,
and he denounces his innocent wife, and thus
causes most of the trouble. Finally, he has a
dagger stuck through his heart in several places;
whereupon Dunbar remarks in great surprise that
he has killed him. Evidently Dunbar had an
idea that Willard is now so used to having daggers
pushed into his heart that they no longer affect his
health. Ada Guildford is the lady of bad charac-
ter and good clothes, whose ma keeps an open-air
restaurant—just the sort of part that suits Miss
Guildford, who does unusually well. Inman,
the sailor hero; Pattie Hughes, the small child
who loses her sight, and regains it and loses it
again to help out the plot—these and some others
help to make up what, from several points of
view, is the best performance of the Anderson
season.
** * #
At Sydney Criterion, Charles Holloway’s
co. has been playing the Russian story of “A
Life’s Revenge” to good houses; and on Saturday,
being joined by Alfred Dampier, Holloway will
revive “ Robbery Under Arms,” with Dampier,
of course, as Starlight, the picturesque boss
robber.
** * *
By the time this Bulletin is in print
“The Players” will have staged “Sowing the
Wind ” at Sydney Palace. This very capable
amateur organisation opened a week’s season on
Saturday with “Dandy Dick” and played it, on
the whole, very well. Compared with the
womenfolk, however, the men were poor. Every
woman is naturally something of an actress,
and has 'only to learn to extend the range
of her power from a circle of friends to a
filled theatre. Every man, unless he is a Yes-No
politician or some other unworthy type, is
naturally unfitted for acting, and has to learn
everything. Amateur companies should begin
training their men a year or two before their
women. Mrs. M‘Donald showed as perhaps the
best of the co., though Miss Marshall’s perfor-
mance in a much more difficult and exacting part
was praiseworthy.
** * *
The Willoughby-Geach Co. opens next
Saturday, in “Mistakes Will Happen,” at Sydney
Palace. Yes, they will—especially during the
racing carnival when most persons back the wrong
horse. Then they are no laughing matter. The
Willoughby-Geach show is represented on the best
authority to be a laughing matter, pure and
simple.
** * *
“ The Toreador ” succeeds “ Lady Molly ”
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) on Saturday. It is its
first appearance in Sydney. Two men helped to
compound the libretto of “Toreador,” and two
built the music, and if too many cooks haven’t
spoilt things Sydney will see an interesting show
on the 19th.
Although there are no snakes in Wirths’
Circus the wisdom of the serpent was visible in
the inorease of the horsey exhibitions while the
A.J.C. Spring Meeting was in full blast. The
particular horse item which appealed to this
writer was Mr. Phil Wirth’s act on the charming
pony Major. August, the dummy, who used to
be carried out of the ring wrapped in the folds of
the elephant’s trunk, now rides the dromedary in
a startling manner. The effect is peculiar, and
reminds one of the progress of a cork on a raging
sea. When the humped gentleman is going at
full blast August leaps on board, and lands
with his legs round the dromedary’s hump
and both hands taking a firm grip of the tail.
It has a most stimulating effect on the dromedary.
Pagel is still fooling recklessly with his lions
When he gets a firm grip the lion has no chance,
but the danger is that some night when Page,
has not banged him down sufficiently hard thl
lion will get his grip first. Leo doesn’t seem te
mind having his jaws opened for the expensivo
seats; what irritates him is when Pagel scruffe
him round and stretches them for the edification
of the beastly shilling crowd. He objects loudly,
and when he is ruffled by being swung up
and dropped suddenly that lion is the angriest
beast ever seen in Sydney. The mastiff which
shares the cage with the lion acts the part of a
peacemaker. Whenever the lion becomes un-
usually threatening, the great dog bays and
bounds between him and Pagel. Pagel has lately
taken to taming tigers in private. He went in
among three, seized the most obstreperous one by
the muzzle and front paws, and hit the other two
with him.
*# * *
In this issue appears the portrait of W. A.
Robyns, the young Australian basso, who is about
to take his voice to Europe and whose farewell
concert happens at Sydney Town Hall on the 23rd.
W. A. Robyns is a Sydney product, and com-
menced singing as a chorister at St. John’s,
Darlinghurst. He made his debut with Marie
Narelle at Sydney Town Hall, and since then has
appeared with Mdlle Dolores, Dani, Phil
Newbury, and F. Barron Morley, the Sydney
Leidertafel and the Amateur Orchestral Society.
His last big success was in the “ Persian Garden ”
show. Also, he has sung twice by command before
Governor-General Tennyson—not that Tennyson
wears the wild, long-haired expression of a man
who knows much about music.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli has made a welcome change
in the “first part,” and a charmingly painted and
brightly dressed stage picture makes “Jolly Japs ”
a good feature of the show. Otherwise the pro-
gramme is much the same as before.
The adaptation of Tolstoy’s “Resur-
rection,” which came to Australian light at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) last Saturday, is a heavy, un-
convincing “problem play,” or melodrama with a
purpose, marked by some strong bold character
drawing, many Zolaesqne depictions of unpleasant
truth, and a few educational touches of wholesome
pain and pathos. As an entertainment it strikes
one as an unpromising venture. The few who will
take it seriously are already well informed about
the evils that trouble Tolstoy the preacher, whilst
the large majority can’t be persuaded to think
about them at all. “ Resurrection ” is too gloomy,
too brutally ‘improper,” too sermonic for the
multitude. Moreover it is practically divided
into six acts, and three out of the five intervals
are rather long, and the first act is preceded by
an unnecessary Hymn of Resurrection, and
the finish is the weakest part of a pro-
longed sadness. The best scene is laid in
the jury room of the court where Katusha is being
tried for murder, and here Eardley Turner, one of
the imported members of the co., gives a convinc-
ing representation of a dull, sensible, kindly bore.
The contrast of jury types is good comedy, too.
A prison scene shows some lurid side-lights of
truth, as well as the striking figure of a degraded
heroine ; also a cerulean incident in the prison
dispensary is a forcible foil to the story of Poti-
phar’s wife. But, for the most of it, “Resurrec-
tion” is an improbable yarn depending upon the
efforts of two principal artists. Miss Maud
Jeffries, as Katusha, gives a realistic performance
of the yielding girl, the depraved woman, and the
sad penitent—though the penitent might be a more
interesting miracle than she appears. Julius
Knight, in the fictitious character of the conscience-
stricken resurrected Prince, is never really impres-
sive. His rulingidea on Saturday, seemingly, was to
maintain a Julius Knight pose, and nearly all the
time he might have been having his photo taken
in the attitude of a Julius who had turned his eye
sideways towards an admiring gal in the amphi-
theatre, and was trying to hear her breathe. The
watchful-listener pose grew very tiring as the
night wore on. There are some well-managed
stage pictures in “Resurrection,” and the
numerous minor considerations have been care-
fully attended to.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s the reminiscent
frivolity of “Are You a Mason? ” is still received
with thanks by pretty large audiences. Amos
Bloodgood’s imposture becomes too hot for him to
hold, owing to his wife’s active inquisitive interest
in Freemasonry; but she has been the same awful
woman for the previous 20 years, and during all that
time Amos held on to his fraud without burning
his fingers. So it would appear that the Bloodgood
family circle has never been visited by a real
Mason until the curtain rises, otherwise the sin
of the old man must have found him out. In
which case the three-act farcical comedy could not
have been born with its present motive. This is
a comedy wherein the things which do happen are
only moderately probable in comparison with the
difficulties which didn’t arise aforetime.
** * #
Bland Holt and co., at Melbourne Royal,
are scaling “The Golden Ladder” at the rate of
six rungs a week, and all is well with that respect-
able piece of literary carpentry. It has been
suggested by somebody that an occasional Thurs-
day matinee at the Royal would supply a want.
Melodrama before dinner probably seems lighter
than at night, and, anyway, there is a population
that rarely goes to a theatre in the evening.
Theatres seem wickeder after dark.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House a new “turn”
is coming to replace Dan Crawley this week, and
Robert Needham, the tuneful baritone of the
Castles’ co. has already arrived. Madam Marzella
with her enthusiastic performing birds and her
silent, passive eagle remains at the “ last nights ”
stage, but the long farewell must terminate very
soon. Saturday concerts at the Exhibition, and
other concerts of more or less moment are happen-
ing as usual.
** * *
The first of present series of Hambourg
concerts happened on Saturday (September 12th),
when the forceful pianist, in conjunction with
Marshall-Hall’s orchestra, proved a draw strong
enough to fill the Town Hall in every part. Last
time the star shone hereabouts he had to thaw
local antipathy to cold-weather concerts. In
Saturday’s swelter (judging by the frenzied
applause) he seemed to fulfil the mission
of a bracing salt wind, fanning the fevered
brow of musical Melbourne. One factor in
Hambourg’s success is the popularity of his
performance with musical teachers and students,
for to them there is something tangible and
definable in their idol’s work—viz., his sensational
technique. Technique, they argue, must come at
last to the hard grafter, unlike “soul” and
“temperament.” So the human go-carts gloat'
over the methods of the motor-car, and, resolving
to do likewise, practise hand-gymnastics till
they’re threatened with “pianist’s paralysis,”
whilst Hambourg himself never practises more
than three or four hours per day. Saturday’s
concert dealt with four compositions only. The
orchestra, on itsown, gave Gluck’s “Iphigenie,”and
the “Siegfried Idyl’’(Wagner). Hambourg and the
orchestra co-operated in two concertos by Schu-
mann and Tschaikowsky, respectively. The
Tschaikowsky thing was a dramatic, interesting
work, not too solid, but softened by a wistful
andantino, serving as a plaintive interlude
between the alarums ft id excursions of Acts 1 and
3. There are queer jarring crashes in the Russian’s
mhsic, sometimes suggestive of Chinese melodic
methods, and opportunities for brilliant execution,
which Hambourg tackles by crooking his fingers
talonwise and pouncing on handfuls of notes like a
hawk swooping on a chicken. At the close of each
concerted piece, the short, smooth-faced Genius
—practical showman that he is—held up his hand
to be shaken by his brother Genius, the big,
bearded conductor. First time, Marshall Hall,
who was quietly mopping his beaded brow when
the enthusiastic paw beckoned pleadingly from
the foot of his conductor’s cliff, had the air of
misinterpreting Markie’s plea. Present Ham-
bourg season includes fixtures for Tuesday
evening (15th), Wednesday afternoon (16th),
Thursday evening (17th), and the evening of
Saturday (19th).
~ The Adelaide Royal has, for some mys-
terious reason, been afflicted with two of the most
lamentable “shockers” on record, in quick
succession. The Anderson collection of criminality
even eclipsed that of D. Barry It was called
“The Face at the Window,” but might equally
well have been styled “The Murderous Assault
and the Galvanic Battery,” or “The Crib from
Edgar Allan Poe.” It will be remembered as the
only play on record in which a character had to
act a heavy scene after he was dead ; and Diver
contrived to look very dead indeed On alternate
evenings he impersonated the aged and gentle and
altogether improbable Nelson of Buchanan’s
historical imagining. The co. is now at Broken
Hill, a town which is understood to like its drama
gory Cuyler Hastings is giving his version of
“ Sherlock Holmes ” to a public which hasalready
seen the part well played by Plimmer, the support
being practically identical in each case. The
stationary bicycle race on the Tivoli stage proved
to be only a moderate attraction, but Rudinoff,
the all-round performer, shows a big drawing
power. Victor Kelly has gone, after a long stay ;
he is a humorous comedian and seemingly
boneless athlete who deserves more prominence
in the bills than he is apt to get. Lemare, at the
Town Hall, had audiences which, though enthusi-
astic, were sadly too small. Adelaide has almost
forgotten that it once claimed to be a musical
city.
RESURRECTION.
In a rural Russian district, where the snow is shininsr
white,
Two maiden aunts give welcome to their nephew, Julius
Knight.
Their protegA Katusha, who is innocent and sweet
(And ripe for indiscretion, like the famous Marguerite),
Falls victim to the tempter, falls as easily as lead.
The careless aunts have told her to bring clothing for his
bed,
And when upon her errand she obediently goes
The ladies leave their nephew to his bachelor repose.
So, when Katusha enters with the blankets (no, the quilt),
He swears he loves, and love is gold, good solid gold—not
guilt.
The damsel cries, “ O, let me go ! ” —then nestles on his
chest;
The curtain drops (at times like these the curtain knows
. what’s best).
Two hearts with but a single thought, two sins that count
as one—
The curtain tells the public that the Trouble has begun,
And all because those maiden aunts departed from the
room
Ere yet the girl had spread the quilt which brought about
her doom.
Ten years elapse. Katusha now has got an awful name.
The maiden aunties turned her loose before the baby
came;
They turned her loose—good pious things!—upon the
wicked town.
She’s fond of drink, she likewise smokes, she’s going
down, down, down,
And for another woman’s crime she’s standing in the dock
When Julius Faustus Knight receives a great dramatic
shock
On learning that the artless wench he’d loved, and left
next day,
Is now the most be-ruined girl that ever went astray.
He doesn’t criticise the plot, he hurls no bitter taunts
At them who wrought the greater wrong. He doesn’t
: curse his aunts ;
He simply gives himself the job to win Katusha back
To where she was before his aunts had sooled her off the
track.
He sacrifices bride-elect, he spends a dreary time
In dodging round the jade who’s “ jugged ” for someone
else’s crime.
At first she doesn’t seem to care ; she wonders what’s his
game;
Her penitence moves slowly like a tortoise that is lame
But presently she drops the drink, and turns from
cigarettes,
And leads a decent prison life,much chastened by regrets,
Whilst Julius schemes to set her free, with nuptial ends
. in view.
The outlook has a rosy tint, although her past is blue.
At last the looked-for pardon comes ; Katusha gets the
show
To answer *• Yes ” and take the man who mashed her lona-
ago,
And have the lawful right to place a quilt upon his bed ;
Instead of which she answers “ No,” and shakes her solemn
head.
And when the lips that bid him go, her faithful Knight had
kiss’t
She pairs off with another bloke—a bilious Nihilist.
Thus ends the play, a play of woe, a sultry, doleful tale.
Its livest characters are “ lags,” it smells of Russian gaol.
Its moral point is not enforced ; in vain we wait to see
Black vengeance overtake the pair who caused the
miseree;
They simply die of honored age and Julius Faustus
plants
Some daisies on the little grave of those d d maiden
aunts.
The Wild Cat Column.
The State Bank of South Australia
Received as
Business Premiums Total
Loss. on Bonds Profit. Deficit.
Sold.
June, 1896 .. £986 £671 — £815
Reserves.
„ 1897 .. 2162 3163 £1001 686
Profit.
March, 1898 .. 707 1477 2184 2,870
i, 1899 .. 1184 711 1895 4,765
„ 1900 .. 1196 71 1271 6,036
„ 1901 .. 1724 — 1724 7,760
„ 1902 .. 2011 — 2011 9,771
„ 1903 .. 2731 — 2731 12,502
The bank borrows at the at-present low rate of 3£ per
cent, and lends on agricultural lands at the also at-
present low rate of 4J per cent. Profits are increasing
handsomely. This State Bank is, of course, different
from ordinary banks in that it has no deposits at current
account to work upon—it has to make all its profits out
of its capital and its as yet small reserves, and even then
it is limited to a charge of 4 j per cent. Nevertheless,
mainly through the growth of the reserves, the profit is
now equal to 10s. Id. per cent, on the funds (capital and
reserves') as at the commencement of the year, as against
7s. lOd. for the previous year. An unsatisfactory feature,
however, is that interest in arrear, though still very
small, has increased considerably. In March, 1901, the
total was £339 ; in March, 1902, £711; in March, 1903,
£1735. No very great amount of new business has been
taken during the year. The following table shows the
net progress in that respect, and furnishes some other
particulars : —
Mortgages Proportion Of
held at Working working expenses
each date, expenses, to mortgages.
J SnonJhs 6 } - £30 > 425 f855 £6 14 11 p.c.
June, 1897 .. 260,011 3510 1 7 0 ,,
98 } ” 360 > 802 2610 0 19 4 „
March, 1899 .. 420,297 3516 0 16 9 „
„ 1900 .. 454,552 3701 0 16 4 „
„ 1901 .. 507,408 3773 0 14 10 „
„ 1902 .. 536,906 3985 0 14 10 „
„ 1903 .. 561,746 3955 0 14 1 „
The past year’s advances totalled £81,280 ; the repay-
ments were £56,440, leaving a net increase of business of
£24,840, as shown. Slower progress must naturally be
expected now': the early rush of business w'as caused by
the removal of mortgages from private money-lenders
hands. That rush over, and results having been satis-
factory, there is no reason now why other people should
;not be assisted just as the farmers have been.
* * * »
The S.A. State 1 Bank raises money by selling
bonds ; and as the repayments come in from mortgagors,
that money, instead of being lent out again, has to be ear :
marked for the repayment of bond holders, new bonds
being issued to provide current loan requirements. The
system has previously been referred to as cumbersome
and costly, and its advantages are not apparent. This
part of Ihe business has moved like this
New Old Increase
Bonds Bonds Re- of Bonds
Sold. purchased. Outstanding.
June, 1896.. £30,400 . — £30,400
„ 1897.. 231,600 £2000 229,600
March, 1898.. 108,200 9,700 98,500
„ 1899.. 88,800 32,000 56,800
u „ 1900.. 72,200 33,30f '38,900
,, 1901..' - 87,700 37,700 50,000
„ 1902.. 86,550 61,600 24.950
„ 1903.. . 68,290 54,440 13,850
The total of outstanding bonds at March 31 was £543,000.
* * '* *
Premier See, in a wild moment, has promised'
that N.S.W. will have a large surplus this year. It may
be so, but what the public knows so far is that last year
closed with a very large deficit ; that the present deficit,
with two months of the new year gone, is nearly eleven
time* what the shortage was at the end of August, 1902.;
that there will probably be less money refunded by the
Commonwealth than theffe “Was last yearthat there is
much more interest to pay than there was last year; that
there is £70,000 to pay on account, of the Uivil Service
Superannuation Fund that was not payable last year;
and that-the same old See and Ow r e’Sullivan are running'
the show.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Ltd.
(Hobart, Tas.), has had a dazzling half-year
PmflDividend and Written Re-
Fronts. D i vidend Tax- off _ t° r «ej serves
Aug., 1897..£4969 6p.c. =£4952 — £17 ’£190,889
Feb., 1898.. 4463 5 „ „ 3714 £1000 — 190,638
Aug., 1898.. 4823 5 ,, „ 3714 1000 109 190,7.47
Feb., 1899.. 4885 5 „ ,, 3714 1000 171 199,918
Aug., 1899.. 5519 6 „ „ 4457 91,000 — 100,980
Feb., 1900.. 6611 6 „ ,, 4457 1500 654 101,634
Aug., 1900.. 6828 7 „ ,, 5200 1500 128 101,762
Feb., 1901.. 7502 7 „ „ 5200 1500 802 102,564
Aug., 1901 13,497 8 „ „ 5943 5000 2554 105,118
Feb., 1902.. 8640 8 „ „ 5943 — 2697 107,815
Aug., 1902.. 8906 8 „ „ 5943 — 2963 110,778
Feb., 1903.. 8788 8 „ „ 5943 — 2845. 113,623
Aug., 1903 12,631 10 „ „ 7428 — 5203 118,826
The profit and loss account shows a profit of £14,039; but
in the foregoing a bonus of £1408 paid to officers; is in-
cluded in working expenses. Even with this deduction
the result is handsome ; it represents a return of £918s.
per cent, per annum on the total shareholders’ funds
(capital £141,492, and reserves £113,623) as at the com-
mencement of the half-year This compares with recent
results as follows


-
Branches— Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania),
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES...
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.— Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING.
83T Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking. TEH
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager
Representing Orenstein and Koppkl, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Golden Links Eclipse (W.A.) mill continues
to beat all records. During August it treated 2580 tons
of ore for a yield of 2287oz. fine gold, thus establishing a
world’s record of 10 '6 tons per stamp daily. This per-
formance is attributed to mill being run by electricity,
which provides a much more uniform and regular motive
power than steam. The value of the return is £9700,
which leaves a profit of fully £7000.
* * * *
Flagstaff, (W.A.), which lias been
reconstructed six times, is to be woundup, and its assets,
consisting of an ancient 20-head mill, originally erected
on the defunct Big Blow, are to be handed over to the
Greenmount Co., Southern Cross, for £35,000 in fully
paid shares.
* * * *
The Policy Holder, July, 1902, writes: —“ The
last report of the Colonial Mutual shows that this import-
ant institution is maintaining its hold upon the assuring
public.”*
* * * *
In the case recently brought by the Wilfley Ore
Concentrator Syndicate against the Central Cookman
Gold Mining Company, the Victorian Chief Justice has
granted an Injunction restraining the defendants from
making or using any concentrating table constructed in
accordance with the Wilfley specification or in colorable
imitation thereof. The Sole Manufacturers in Australasia
of the Wilfley Ore Concentrators are the Austral Otis
Engineering Company Limited, South Melbourne.*
* * » *
Thousands of pounds are yearly thrown away
because insufficient care is taken to save the extreme
fines and slimes in concentrating mills. There is only
one ore dressing machine which is unquestionably entitled
to first place as the best and surest means of saving this
material. We refer to the Luhrig Vanners, which have
proved their superiority on all leading mining fields and
may be seen daily in use at the gold, silver, lead, zinc,
tin, copper and other mines where up-to-date ore dressing
is in vogue. Messrs W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne
and Sydn63', are the Sole Agents, and will be pleased to
give full particulars on application.*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
m • 0 *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
* * * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * * _ *
With a constant sensibility of l/3000th. grain,
assayers will welcome the “ Galopin ” Assay Balance
(price, with weights, £21.) “It is all you claim for it,”
writes a customer to de Beer, Silberberg and Co., cf
Gasoline furnace fame, Bourke-street, Melbourne.*
• * * *
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
• • * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
.opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
E. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks'fegistered throughout the world.*
* m * *
Members of the South Australian Parliamen-
tary Railway Commission, wandering through the Stores
Depot at Pt, Adelaide, bruised their shins against a large
quantity of permanent and reproductive works which had
been lying there for years. There is, among other things,
all the material for a lighthouse. Twelve or 15 years ago
it was bought in a hurry for about £1500, the Owe’Sulli-
van of the moment intending to putitup on some distant
point in the Northern Territory. But South Australian
Ministries didn’t last more than a few months at a time
in those days ; and when the new man came in he proba-
bly mistook it for a shooting gallery, and decided to let
it stay where it was. South Australia borrowed £1500 to
buy it, and Bull Cohen has been paid about £700 in
interest on the purchase since then. Other trifles on
hand include two large guns which have never been fired,
and which have been taking up a quantity of valuable
space for over 14 years.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shaving's, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald, 174
William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eagle-st.,
Brisbane ; 4 Oliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin, N.Z,
By Special Appointment to His Majesty the King
Feb., 1901 ..£6 3 4 p.c. Aug., 1902 .. £7 2 11 p.c.
Aug., 1901 ..11 1 2 „ Feb., 1903 .. 6 19 4 p.c.
Feb., 1902 .. 7 0 2 „ Aug., 1903 .. 9 18 0 p.c.
The Commercial of Tasmania does not show separately
what amount it has derived from the recovery of
debts previously written off; and, as Tasmania has
been having an Unusually good time lately, it is
probable that a considerable amount of the half-year’s
profit has come from this source. If that is so, then the
dividend will have to be watched ; once before this bank
ran up its dividend (to 26 per cent, that time), and after-
wards wished it hadn’t. The bank’s liabilities to the
public amount to £1,571,054, against £1,572,881 12 months
ago, a decrease of £1827 ; but its advances, etc., total
£1,259,697, against £1,135,171, an increase of £124,526.
Cash and liquid securities are £550,434, equal to 35 per
cent, of the liabilities to the public, which is a very solid
reserve.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Produce and Cool Storage
Co. (Launceston, Tas.) completes its second year :—
Added to
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit-
£1068
Reserves
1902 .. £1,151 — £1,161 £83
1903 ..811 — ' 811 894
In the first year the amount spent in preliminary ex-
penses, £568, was written off. In the foregoing, however,
neither preliminary expenses nor goodwill are treated as
an asset. The goodwill item, originally £500, is being
written off, and has already been reduced to £400. The
co. is to be commended for having thus promptly got to
work on these two paper assets. An unsatisfactory
feature, on the other hand, is the very rapid increase of
overdraft. In June, 1802, it was £71; in June, 1903,
£4331. The Produce and Cool Storage is much too risky
and irregular a business to make it wise to borrow largely
in order to carry it on. Nevertheless, the prospects of a
Tasmanian produce co. ought to be rather greener than
usual, Tasmania being a small island where it frequently
rams and the cow flourishes luxuriantly.
» * * *
I.O.F. alleged insurance concern—another
balance-sheet comes to hand
Added to Total
Dec., Income Claims Expenses Funds Funds
1901.. £524,621 £325,335 £62,496 £136,790 £1,020,711
1902.. 581,727 344,358 61,347 176,022 1,196,733
The figures for 1901 were dealt with in B., Sept. 10, ’03,
Those for 1902 leave matters just about where they were.
The interest earnings are still rather poor, being equal to
£4 2s. 9d. per cent, on the mean of the funds, as against
£3 19s. 8d. in the previous year. (The A.M.P.’s rate for
1902 was £4 9s. 2d. per cent.) The expense rate
was £10 10s lid. as against £10 18s. 3d., and this is irre-
spective of an unknown extra, amount required as “court
dues.” In 1901 the forfeited and surrendered policies
numbered 12,929, assuring £2,438,608; last year they
reached the vast total of 15,476, assuring £2,618,705.
Twelve policies lapsed in this way for every one on which
the society paid out any benefits ; this represents a
larger loss of the savings, mostly of the poor, than ever.
Notwithstanding these wholesale surrenders (the Red
Indian calls them “ surrenders ” now, though no sur-
render value is attached to the policies), there are still
policies in existence purporting to insure £46,612,918.
The funds are thus equal to a minute fraction over 6d. in
the £ of the amount insured. (The A.M.P., on the same
basis, can pay 7s. 3d.) And, finally, the assets stated to
be in Victoria (where the head office for Australia is) total
£7121, while the amount of insurance in force there
was £124,200, the latter representing an increase of
£15,500 for the year.
* * * *
The Melbourne Permanent Building Society,
for 10 years :—
Business Loss on Total Added to Re-
July, Loss. Property. Loss. Reserves, serves.
1894 .. £6352 £16,802 £23,154 — £17,202
(Debenture interest reduced from 5 to 24 p.c.)
Profit. Total profit.
1895 .. 508 1,817 1,309 £1309 18,511
Profit. Loss. Total loss.
1896 .. 884 1,168 284 — 18,227
1897 .. 1220 3,010 1,790 — 16,437
1898 .. 1523 7,718 6,195 — 10,242
1899 .. 1913 7,122 5,209 — 5,033
Total profit.
1900 .. 2614 603 2,011 2011 7,044
Profit.
1901 .. 3423 841 4,264 4264 11,308
Loss.
1902 .. 4733 10 4,723 4723 16,031
1903 .. 4460 485 3,975 3975 20,006
The share capital is £177,164 ; and on this amount the net
profit was equal to £2 4s. lid. per cent., as against £2
13s. 4d. in the previous year. If, however, instead of
paying 2£ per cent, on the £193,727 of debentures, the
society paid the current bank rate of 4 per cent., it would
have left enough to pay only 12s. Id. percent, on the
share capital. On this showing the assets require a great
deal of writing down ; and the directors are just now
cngaged upon this work. The liquidation of the society’s
liabilities on debentures continues to make good progress
notwithstanding the small earnings; amount outstanding
at the end of each of the past 10 years has been as
follows:—
1894 .. .. £417,874 1899 .. .. £262,707
1895 .. .. 368,985 1900 .. .. 241,720
1896 .. .. 322,195 1901 .. .. 222,489
1897 .. .. 304,367 1902 .. .. 208,287
1898 .. .. 283,420 1903 .. .. 193,737
In 10 years this debt has been reduced by £241,799, to
accomplish which the nominal reserves have been reduced
by £20,350 (the reserves stood at £40,356 at the end of
1S93). If the remaining assets are as good as those which
have been disposed of, the position is, therefore, by no
means hopeless; the recovery of the full amount of the
capital is simply a matter of patience. The alternative
is to write down assets and capital, put the affairs on a
sound basis, and go into regular business again promptly.
On the mean net profits of the past three years the society
could have paid 4 per cent, per annum on the average
of outstanding debentures, and 2J per cent, on £47,960 of
shareholders’ capital; or it could have paid 3 per cent, on
debentures-and the same on £109,000 of capital.
* * * *
The Ballarat Gas Co. (Ballarat, Vie.):
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Re-
serves. serves
July,. 1899 — — — £62,865
Jan., 1900 £4384 14 per cent. = £4725 — 62,524
July, 1900 5731 14 „ „ 4725 £1006 63,530
Jan., 1901 4821 14 „ „ 4725 96 63,626
July, 1901 5355 14 „ „ 4725 630 64,256
Jan., 1902 ,4476 14 „ „ 4725 — 64,007
July, 1902 5588 14 „ „ 4725 863 64,870
Jan., 1903 4214 14 „ „ 4725 — 64,359
July, 1903 5044 14 „ „ 4725 319 64,678
Ballarat pays the biggiSt dividends in Australia. Its
Trustee Co. makes over 13 per cent., its Woollen Mills 15
per cent, and its Gas Co. 14 per cent. And The Bulletin
doesn’t know whether to be glad fc r Ballarat, or sorry.
* * *
The Queen Building Society (Melbourne)
Loss on
Loss on Property Total Written
July, Business Sales Loss off Deficit
1897 .. .. £1,769
1898.. ..£289 £447 £736 — 2,505
V.... Profit
1899 .: 'v. 89 726 637 — 3,142
Loss
1900 .. .. 85 1267 1352 — 4,494
Profit
1901.. ... 209 476 267 — 4,761
1902.. .. 63 100 37 — 4,798
1903.. .. 245 1471 1226' . £7260 .,13,284
The amount (£7260) shown in the last line as written off
is the difference between the recent book value of fore-
closed properties and their worth as now determined bp-
valuation. There remain still the loans op mortgage to
be overhauled ; but, as the arrears of interest bn £4065
amount to only £7,.it doesn’t look as though any severe
writing down would be necessary there. If, then, the
Valuation of foreclosed properties is what it ought to be,
the present deficit, £15,284, or probably a little more,
would seem to be the extent of the society s lo'sses. The
society’s clearing-up has gone further than this ; the last
of the depositors have been got rid of, and nearly all the
mortgages. The progress made in paying off liabilities
during a few years past has been :
Owing to Depositors and Other Creditors.
1898 £15,466 1901 . .. £9202
1899 14,477 1902 .. 5468
1900 .. 11,979 1903 .. 887
On the capital which was intact after the writing-off
(£18,773) the year’s business profit was equal to £1 6s. Id.
percent: ; and the lowness of the return suggests either
that the writing down has so far been insufficient, or that
the expenses have been exceedingly high As, however, a
large amount was spent in repairs and renovation (pro-
bably in connection with premises now disposed of), the
figures may hardly show what the society is capable of in
the future.
* * * *
Premier Irvine of Victoria is a very angry
Kyabrammer because London Financial News casts
doubts on the genuineness of his great sham surplus. Yet
when a surplus is made by taking £100,000 out of railway
funds set apart in previous years for certain fixed pur-
poses, postponing payment of £110,000 of liabilities, and
reckoning certain receipts of July and August in with the
revenue of the year which ended the previous June, it
seems to be up to somebody to call the thing a sham.
* * * *
After taking a referendum of ratepayers, Fre-
mantle Municipal Council has decided to establish its
own tram and electric lighting system. Council had
a proposition from one Rogers before it, which
Roarers indignantly withdrew when a referendum was
decided on. Then the Perth press railed about “ capital
being withdrawn from the country,” as though Rogers
were staggering along the wharf with his carpet bag full
of wealth. But Rogers had never put any capital into
the Fremantle scheme, and the Council will invest just
as much capital as Rogers proposed to spend. And, for
all the present evidence there is to the contrary, the
capital in this case might have been like that of Snow,
who doesn’t make much progress at finding capital for
the Adelaide trams.
* * » *
The Modern Permanent Building and In-
vestment Society (Melbourne) : —
Trading Loss on Pro- ™ , L Re-
Loss. perty Sales. ca ' serves.
July, 1895.. — — — £44,121
„ (1896.. £3479 £7,952 £11,431 32,690
„ 1897.. 1193 6,318 7,511 25,179
„ 1898.. 1671 8,677 10,348 14,831
Profit. Deficit.
,, 1899.. 281 15,750 15,469 638
„ 1900.. 9 5,593 5,584 . 6,222
„ 1901.. 1591 6,548 . 4,957 11,179
(Interest to depositors, &c., advanced to 3 pm.)
„ 1902.. 561 834 273 v 11,452
„ 1903.. 43 5,377 5,334 16,786
The figures in the last line are to some extent an esti-
mate, as the exact amount required to pay the extra £
per cent, interest to depositors and debenture holders on
November 1st is not yet known. This extra £ per cent, is
charged in the foregoing to trading expenses ; if only the
old 2J- per cent, were charged, the trading profit for the
past year would be £1643, which is, with one exception,
the greatest since the boom burst, notwithstanding that
the year’s accounts are charged with £2000, depreciation
of Victorian Government debentures. Sales of property
have, however, resulted in a heavy loss ; this is due to
clearing off a great quantity of vacant handkerchief
allotments at an alarming sacrifice. More progress than
usual has been made with the reduction of liabilities on
debenture and mortgage, mainly by paying off a first
instalment of 2s. 6d. in the £ of the principal all round.
The progress in the matter of the reduction of these lia-
bilities (hitherto made by repurchase) has been :—
Owing on Debentures Paid Off
and Mortgages. During Year.
1897 .. £460,590 .. —
1898 .. 442,698 .. £17,892
1899 .. 413,898 .. 28,800
1900 .. 398,337 .. 15,561
1901 .. 394,868 .. 3,469
1902 .. 381,977 .. 12,891
1903 .. 325,658 .. 56,319
The result of the large operations of the year has, how-
ever, been to convert the credit bank balance of £3401
into an overdraft of £3881 and “other advances” of
£12,000. Presumably, therefore, a considerable quantity
of debt, carrying in the past 2£ per cent, and recently 3
per cent., has been exchanged for debt carrying about 4£
or 5 per cent., which doesn’t seem any too good busi-
ness. But, taking it altogether, the society’s progress is
really better than the figures indicate ; because, although
in order to reduce the liabilities on debenture and mort-
gage by £134,932 in the past six years it has been
necessary to absorb £60,907 of the society’s capital, yet
the remaining assets are better than they were. For-
merly they consisted only of properties at book values ;
now they also include £35,356 worth of Government
stock.
* • • •
B.B. : The two offices mentioned stand side by
side in most comparisons ; among Australasian cos. they
stand in the matter of expense rate 5th.and 6th ; interest
earnings, 7th and 10th ; and amount of insurance fund
4th and 5th. The M.L. State Department shows up
ahead of them in all three respects. The Mutual, how-
ever, offers the highest annuity... .L.A.M. : Largely it is
a matter of high cost of treating the ore ; an early
advance is not iikely J.S.F. (Ashfield) : Referred to
Westralia E.L. : Re manganese, write Falk, 38 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
* * * 4t
The Farmers and Settlers’ Co-operative
Society Ltd. (Sydney):
Bonus to
Consignors
and Added
Share- to Re- Re-
Half-year Profit. Dividends, holders, serves, serves
Dec., 1901 — — — ' — £115
June, 1902 £1572 5p.c.= £518 £750 £304 419
(Reserves unaccountably reduced by £237) 182
Year
June, 1902 2157 5p.c.= £1082 £1000 £75 257
(Reserves unaccountably reduced by £56) 201
Half-year
Dec., 1902 569 — £643 — 127
Loss. Deficit.
June, 1903 2810 — — — 2683
As to the amounts mentioned above as having faded
out of the accounts, it is pretty certain that, for the
greater part, they represent money paid either as
bonus or dividends in addition to the amounts
stated as having been paid. There is, however,
involved in the earlier disappearance, an amOutit of
£150, which was alleged to have been put to “special
reserve for branch accounts”; but nothing more
happened—it just faded out of sight. Most likely there
wasn’t anything wrong ; all the same, if there were it
would be practically impossible to check it. The last
two balance-sheets are, however, satisfactorily drawn.
The business recently has been unprofitable. In the last
six months the gross earnings were £6277, as against
£10,206 in the six months ending June, 1901, while the
general expenses, wages, salaries and fees were £7317, as
against £7447. In other words, earnings fell £1040 short
of paying general expenses, without taking into account
interest and rent (£849), bad debts (£678), depreciation,
&c, Of course the season has been unusually severe.;
nevertheless it is obvious now that the dividend and
bonus distributions a little while back were most excessive.
* * * *
Broken Hyll British is looking better than
usual ; more milling ore is exposed than at any time
hitherto. The mill is now working two shifts daily, and
the out-turn is about 2000 tons a week. When the mine
resumed work it was thought that lead would not go
below £1110s. again, but the August average was slightly
under £11 3s. Silver is, however, firmer ; and there is a
good market for Broken Hill concentrates. The British
can therefore escape a loss, though it is believed that
nothing below £11 for lead is profit.
* * * *
Myall’s United (N.S.W.) has cut the lode at
the 700ft level, and advices from London state that the
cable messages from Australia indicate very encouraging
prospects; the lode is described as being payable Co.
has recently purchased the large air-compressor which
the defunct Hongkong Co erected at Mount Macdonald.
This addition to the plant at Myall’s in a measure confirms
the supposition that there are more hopeful prospects in
view Myall’s people are again nibbling at the Peak Hill
mine in the same district. A year or so ago they were
negotiating for the property, and a mere trifle blocked
the completion of the transaction. Peak Hill ought to
be a good property if properly handled.
* * * *
The Great Cobar (N. S. W.) deal is officially de-
clared off and the mine is now the property of the Reid-
Longworth syndicate. The reason alleged for the failure.of
the Joseph option syndicate is the strong antipathy which
Londoners show towards any Australian mining proposi-
tion, owing to the “ trend of socialistic legislation ” This
is arrant nonsense. The plain, unvarnished reason
is that J.B could get no satisfactory explanation
of why he should be asked to give the option syndicate
practically £700,000 for the transference of its rights
in a £1,000,000 purchase. It is said that £5000 is all that
was deposited here and in expert’s fees and other ex’s.
The option people may have spent £20,000 more. Had
they been content with a £1,500,000 flotation which would
have given them the handsome profit of over £200,000 the
probability is that the co. would have been formed. It
is understood that the owners will now proceed to equip
the mine on a scale somewhat commensurate with its
productive power
• * * *
Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), last half-year,
crushed 23,031 tons of ore for 2746oz. gold, or 2dwt. 9gr.
per ton ; 17,200 tons of tailings were cvanided for £6587
worth of gold, or 7s. 7fd. per ton. The extraction by
cyanide was about 81 per cent, and the cost 3s. 8£d. per
ton. Dividends amounting to £3150 were paid. Directors
contemplate the erection of 10 additional stampers.
When they absorb the Western, as they hope to do some
day, they will want 60 stampers more Petty jealousies
block the desirable amalgamation.
* * * •
The Vulcan, at Irvinebank, N.Q., probably the
deepest lode-tin mine working this side of the Equator,
made a profit in the past six months (to August 14) of
£7953, of which £6930 went in dividends and dividend
duty. The co. has no mill, and the custom works which
it patronises lately put up the prices, affecting profits to
some extent. The co. is now going down to 900ft., with
good prospects. It. has a cash reserve fund of £3030, in
addition to a cash balance of £1872. The small mining
co. which steadily establishes a reserve fund is a pleasant
surprise.
* * * 0
Though most Charters Towers’ stocks show a
severe shrinkage, the field’s returns continue satisfactory.
August dividends were £33,850, making the year’s total
so far £278,102, against £241,802 for the first eight
months of 1902. Queen Cross Reefs, one of the few
stocks that have moved up during the past three months,
supplies, however, £20,000 (2s. per share) of the total of
£33,850, and only four others, each for small amounts,
are on the list. Calls, on the other hand, are mounting.'
Queen Cross’s total for the eight months is £110,000.
Brilliant and St. George, which paid £3600 as usual this
month, will probably shortly increase the amount. This
mine has paid £23,400 in divs. during the past six
months (equal to 65 per cent, on its capital), and is in a
good financial position ; after debiting the August div.,
a cash balance of £23,000 is left—an increase of £9902 in
the six months. Mining costs have been reduced to
£1 Is. 6d. per ton. Since 1898 it has won £1,244,768 of
gold and paid £634,800 to shareholders.
* * * *
The visit of an Adelaide director to Smith’s
Creek tin-mine (N.Q.) has led to a wholesale clearing-out
of officials. The mill has worked long enough to get into
fair running condition, but has disposed of most of the
available ore, and will shortly be closed down, pending
the chance of prospecting operations revealing further
supplies. This problematical event will mean a liberal
supply of cash ; and who is to provide it ? It seems
likely that Smith’s Creek will soon be a sad memory.
Someone has blundered seriously in connection with the
show. Money has not been spared to give it every chance,
and the Adelaide men who have been hit should insist
on a thorough investigation.
* * * *
The Victorian Government, being “of opinion
that the existing law relating to mining does not hold out
to bona-fide investors sufficient security for the investment
of large amounts of capital,” announces that it will ask
legal sanction for “a system whereby, instead of labor
covenants, mining leases will contain covenants for the
expenditure of fixed sums year by year during the cur-
rency of the lease.” This Bill, if it is ever introduced,
will have to be watched very carefully. There is little in
the cry that present mining leases are insecure ; there is
far more, in fact, in the complaint that it is too difficult
to secure the forfeiture of leases which are being
merely shepherded by speculators, waiting for their
neighbours to prove or disprove something. But, apart
from this, the proposed new system will not give increased
security worth twopence. What, however, it will do will
be to help make the miner’s occupation more uncertain
and irregular; and its irregularity is already its curse.
Two or three co.’s, which will have to spend among
them, say, £2500 a year, may decide to spend the amount
in a few months. They will announce that they can find
places for 30 or 40 men ; then, the £2500 spent, they will
be masters of the situation perhaps for 18 months. And
miners know what that means—the co.’s will tell them
that, though they don’t really want them, and
needn’t etnploy them, they can go on tributing.
if they like, or they can have a contract at a
starvation rate, or they can “ fill in time” at 5s. a day.
And then other leaseholders who are spending the money
that they have to spend under the terms of the lease will
point out that other co’8. are getting work done for 5s.,
and they will want their work—even the work that they
are bound to do—done for 5s. ; and, with the 5s.-a-day
men available, they will get it done. As it is, the miner,
and the people who live on the miner, are heavily handi-
capped through the industry being so capricious, and
employment so irregular ; and Irvine’s plan will make the
handicap heavier. What is really needed is something to
make the employment more regular ; and if the capitalist
also needs more encouraging, then give him a longer lease,
for short leases generally mean inadequate development,
and the stripping of a property of only its richer patches.
* * * *
There have been great ructions at Bendigo of
late. The New Chum and Victoria fiasco, which is one of
the most unfortunate events in the history of the field,
has led to the retirement of the mine manager and the
rejection of two directors who sought re-election at last
meeting. No fewer than seven managers have been
called upon to resign within the past month. It is a
healthy sign to find shareholders taking this intense
interest in the practical management of the mines. For
many years Bendigo has enjoyed a clean reputation ; its
mines have been worked on honest lines, and, anomalous
as it may seem, this is the reason why its stocks have
commanded so little attention in other
the spec.-sellers and other market manipulators
have not been afforded a chance to exercise
their baneful influence. Latterly there have been
occurrences which indicated that the purely market
men were making a desperate effort to get control of
several stocks, but, if the genuine mining men persevete
in their present determination to keep things on the
straight track, these nefarious gentry will soon be
crushed.
• * * •
Bendigo divs. for the expired portion of present
year total £202,187, as against £126,918 for same period
last year. The year’s distributions ought to reach close
on £300,000, which will be a record for nearly 20 years.
* * *
Associated (W.A.)isnow in a strong financial
position. The old opera-bouffe plant has long reposed on
the scrap heap, yet its initial cost and the cost of renova-
tions have up to now figured as assets in the accounts.
By appropriating £161,713 premium on shares (43,400
were sold in Sept., 1899, at £12 apiece), the plant and
buildings have been written down to current value as
estimated by manager Gleisberg. Another £212,702, also
from premium on shares, has been written off develop-
ment, wiping out cost of all developments prior to
April, 1902 During last financial year the co. cleared
£81,959, from which £23,223 was appropriated for
depreciation and one-sixth development for year ended
March 31. The whole of the old Ropp furnaces have now
been dismantled, and the full dozen Merton roasters will
soon be in full swing, and materially improve extraction,
raising it from 70 to 90 per cent., or fully 5dwt. Pros-
pects have very much improved of late, developments in
all parts of the mine being satisfactory. It is now
generally conceded that the rich Oroya chute will sooner
or later be located in the Associated, as its trend south-
wards appears to be 70 yards east of the Kalgurli’s south-
eastern boundary peg.
(Continued on page SI.)


David Jones & Co.’s
celebrated •« ORIENT TO fIEASURE 99
SAC SUITS
In Tweed
or Serge
Send for
Patterns and
Self-
Measurement
Forms ...
TO MEASURE
3s
Delivered Free to any Railway Station or Seaport in the States.
George and Barrack Sts., Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Ressh's Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Society
Concerning the half-caste girl, Clara
mother was a pure-blooded gin ; the father a well-
T, n , e ? te ? ° l utcast from the old country. The
her d babvhf« U - dgefc ° f horrible stories concerning
killing of h?, ?u mp; one connected with the
Tfin g h f mother was particularly gruesome.
thi« Lih Said Were true ’ Wheeler had lived on
land «nth m -T y year « t0 ° lon &* and the Queens-
to th h ntieS ™ lghfc decide > on close inquiry,
that tho I 1 ®" • Potation and express regret
that the occasion didn’t come sooner.
THE GREAT UNDRESSED.
TOMMY (taken to see the ladies in the drawing-room): “ Oh, nurse, tell them to put their loses on)
Some two years ago a charitably-disposed
person named Waite bequeathed some hundreds
of pounds to the Parramatta Benevolent Asvlum.
There is no such institution, but it was agreed
that the testator meant the Benevolent Society.
Before the court could part with the money a Bill
had to be passed by Parliament authorising it
to thus interpret the will. Up to date Parliament
has done nothing, spending its valuable time on
Billjim’s dirt money. Meanwhile, the Society is
so hard up, many of its subscribers ceasing to sub-
scribe when they heard of the windfall, that it
has suspended operations.
~ 9 W1I 1& t^le mai 'ked diminution in the
•i ate ’ cradle . s > feeding bottles, and other
i S niie necessaries have fallen in price in Maori-
na, and are offered at an alarming sacrifice,
vertisers anxious to see the population figures
rise print some great ind ucements. Thus a Christ-
church jeweller
A SPORTING OFFER,
ehn?rU h ?„ nTt n w h° gives birth to twins in Christ-
piece. october * Butcher will give a handsome time-
vYs)l"a,n who gives birth to triplets, in Christ-
day clock october ' Butcher will donate a valuable eight-
ohT,rns 16 ; wh0 gives birth to quadruplets in Christ-
sass’Hr «*"" is “ rat »« id
* • • •
• tij- lunatic has turned up
in Melbourne, and created a scare at the
commonwealth Government House and in the
Eastern Extension telegraph office. This rem-
nant of the Jingo lunacy was a Britisher
traveHmg for the benefit of the world at large,
and he landed in Melbourne with a burning desire
to save the Empire from the Russians. Conse-
quently he made straight for the office of the cable
company with a sheaf of cables to the Admiralty
and to the admirals on all the naval stations
ordering them to rise up and save the Empire at
once. He also had a loaded pistol. The messages
were signed “ Tennyson,” and when the officer in
charge said it would be necessary to get the
brovernor-General’s seal, he went off to get the
seal with such promptitude that before the cable
othcials could telephone to Government House he
had turned up there and was shaking his gun at
the world in general. After a struggle he was
disarmed and taken before Panton, P.M., and
worthy, “Do you believe in
the Bible ? was promptly sent off to an asylum,
it is curious how promptly the Law sends a man
to an asylum when he even mentions the Bible
to it.
• • • •
For 50 years criminals executed in Mel-
bourne have been buried within the precincts of
the gaol. The last to be handed over to relatives
l? r ™l al were Melville, Atkins, and Reilby, for
*" e . ; ° r escorfc robbery. The body of George
Melville was taken by nis wife to her house in
Little Bourke-street, dressed in grave clothes, and
ornamented French fashion, with a profusion of
nbbons (Mrs.. Melville was French), and then
E laced openly in a window, where it was inspected
y a great number of persons. A regular “wake ”
was kept up during the night, the body being still
m the window, with many lights ; and the inter-
ment took place next day.
The sacrilegious blackguard who lately
pinched State papers from the despatch boxes
of Queensland Ministers Leahy
and Dalrymple is not the
first to desecrate the sanc-
tity of Brisbane Parlia-
ment House. During
Nelson’s time as Pre-
mier, some one
walked off with his
boots and trousers
whilst the old man
was in the bath.
The first Anglican Church services in
Victoria were held under a gum tree, a little south
of the site of the present St, Paul’s Cathedral, in
March or April, 1836. There is only one survivor
° f , tl ’?' se , who attended—a lady living near Kew.
Ihe Wesleyans about tied with the Anglicans;
the Kev. Orton, of the former sect, came over
trom iasmama when Batman brought his family
across. The Methodies pitched their tent under
a she-oak on Batman’s hill, the south side of the
city. At that time, or a bit later, there were
sheep-yards where St. James’s now stands.
“J.F.D.” The Lancet’s remarks on fat
babies get to the point. I have heard of a
woman who owned about 451 b. of fat baby,
and who told her friends that when the piggy-eyed
wonder got a few more pounds on her carcase she
intended to photo her and send her with written
testimonials to three diSerent infants’ food manu-
facturers. She had heard from Mrs. Jones in the
back street that one of the firms paid <£s for the
photo of an extra-bloated offspring fattened on its
food, so she reckoned her mass would pull it off.
Unfortunately the infant died while struggling to
acquire the last half-cwt. of fat. There was no
WOMAN'S RIGHTS.
"A n increasing family, unless compensated for by an increasing income, invariably meansa towered standard
of living for both parents and offspring. "- Common-sense.
“Lor’, Jim! an’ they’ve appointed a Royal Commission to, see why women prefer that sort ov
thing to this.”
photo, no £5, no testimonial—only a poor,
balloon-shaped infant resting under a tombstone.
It was the first real rest it had known since its
dismal career as a professional fat baby com-
menced—the first time that its slumbers weren’t
interrupted by the rush of food.
* * * *
The Governors of the Adelaide Public
Library, Art Gallery, and Museum threaten to
close one of these institutions (probably the last-
named) as a protest against the way in which the
Jenkins Government has starved them lately.
Eleven years ago, when the buildings to be kept
up were much smaller, the grant in aid was
£2200 a year more than it is now. It is claimed
that the S.A. subsidy for these purposes is,
“relative to population, the smallest in any part
of Empire aspiring to cater for the mental
entertainment of the poorer classes,” while all
institutions, both buildings and contents, are
really such as a much larger city might be proud
of.
London Law Notes prints the all-iinporr
tant announcement that the meaning of the word]
“humph” was recently decided in the Irish
Appeal Court. Justice Madden and Justice
Boyd held that the expression was one of dissent,
while the Chief Justice and Mr. Burton thought
that it merely indicated a dissatisfied state of
mind. Finally, the Court of Appeal decided,
once for all, that the word “ humph ” is an expres-
sion of doubt or dissatisfaction. A deal should
depend upon the way in which the word was
spoken. It may belike the Chinese word “chow,”
which has 23 different meanings, all depending on
the tone in which it is uttered. It is not the word
that does the harm —it’s the nasty way you say it.
* * * *
Melbourne Board of Health has decided to
recommend the Government to permanently close
Melbourne General Cemetery against further
interments after the end of June next. This
action has been taken for sanitary reasons; the
place has, since its Opening, received no fewer
than a quarter of a million candidates for the
regulation 6x2 feet of permanent resting place,
and things are beginning to get crowded and
uncomfortable. But it is so like a Board to begin
reforming ten months hence.
• • * *
Deposed by a petitioning husband in a
recent Sydney divorce cgse that he was married
in a down-town matrimonial agency, both the
contracting parties being under age. The bride’s
uncle posed as her father for the purpose of giving
parental consent, but to the disgust of the wedding
party, the'minister pointed out that the Marriage
of Minors Act also required that the parents of
the bridegroom should consent. Luckily someone
remembered the cabman outside, and he Came in
and “consented.” Apparently almost anything
serves for a consenting parent.
* * » *
A Melbourne County Court item :
Counsel : You say you saw a man leaning against the
wall. Did you know who he was?
Witness : I knew he was an Australian !
There is a fund of unconscious humor in
the religious paper. As an instance, witness this
extract from the Spectator’s report of the thirty-
first Chow-shivoo of the Methodist Chinese
Mission, where every Chow has a good-looking
young Methody lass as a teacher:
Mr. McCulloch, of the China Inland Mission, who
appeared in the costume of a Chinese missionary, gave an
interesting account of his work in Canton, and described
how he grew his own pigtail.
Whose pigtail did they expect him to grow ?
* * * »
Interesting country item from Melbourne
Age :
A concert and dance will be held in the Jumbunna hall
shortly to help to pay the fine of Thomas Carrol, who was
fined £5 on the 7th inst. for using obscene language in a
public place.
* * • •
An old Dutch chair, once the property @f~
Boer General Cronje, is on view in Melbourne ■
Public Library. No looted Bibles are on view
there, though it is said that one can be seen any -
day in of a Brisbane three-ballery.
N.S.W. Justice Simpson laid down a-,
strangely cold-blooded legal doctrine the other.-
day. Before a woman can sue for the restoration 1
of her rights as a wife, said the learned and dreary/
Justice, she must have formally demanded, with-
out threat or condition, that her husband shoulcU
take her back, and must have expressed l#*r-,
willingness to go back to her husbandl. His
Honor, wrestling with the case as if id hndi been
a cold stone figure on a pedestal, said! Itjfeat the
plaintiff had offered to return home iifikftjrhusband
would take her back and treat hen- i-indly, and
this condition put her out of; coujjb. She ought
not to have- saijd anything aboi*t being treated
kindly, ft- may be good. law, but as sentiment it
sews, cold enough to freew meat with.
*' ** * *
Yeteriipiry surgeon Desmond, on whose .
ipfopmation,the-suspension of Ramsay Smith was .
brought about,, had a warm time in cross-examina-
t£on by Symon, K.C., before the Adelaide Board >
Qf Inquiry. He was asked to produce his purse,
and, when questioned as to the material of its •
construction, reluctantly confessed that it was ;
made from human skin. A man who uses his:
fellow-creature’s hide for a money-bag should |
hardly be sensitive about the man who takes liiss-
fellow-creature’s skeleton for scientific purposes..
That man at Coogee (N.S.W.) who tinrew
himself over a cliff last week deserves. t©> be
remembered as the Polite Suicide. Being arrested
on a charge of passing valueless cheques* be said
courteously to the detective : “Please excuse me
a moment,’ and then took a short out over the
precipice. Victoria, a few years ago, produced a
similar individual. He was a commercial man
living in a house, the back garden of which
abutted on the Yarra. A ’tec at the front door
told him he was wanted for embezzlement, where-
upon he also asked most courteously.to be excused
while he got his hat. It wasn’t till a fortnight
later that the muddy river gave up its Polite
Suicide.
* * * *
“ A. Pofcliecary ” remarks :
Chemist’s par. (3/9/’O3) touching the eccentricities of
the poison bottle recalls a creepy tale told to me by the
leading chemist in a large and flourishing and tiiuch-
medicine - consuming suburb shortly before he died
through not taking his own medicine regularly. “ I felt
particularly dull and heavy, the other morning,” sa d he,
“ and no wonder, for I had been rung up four times the
night before, and I had to leave my breakfast to make up
a prescription for a Judge. Part of it was a pretty stiff
dose of strychnine. The case was evidently an urgent
one, for the servant who called with the prescription'had
ridden his horse so fast that it was flecked with foam.
After I had finished my breakfast I started to clean up
the counter—and found a Joz. weight stuck underneat.l
the scale I had us d in making up the Judge’s prescrip-
tion. Of course there was no cab on the stand opposite,
so I started to do a sprint for the Judge's house in the
fastest time that I could travel. My luck was ‘in’ that
day, however, for just as I was bursting out of the shop
door I met the Judge’s messenger limping back fora
fresh dose. He had been thrown through his horse slip-
ping at a sharp turn, and the medicine bottle had been
smashed. The weight was fastened to the scales by some
ointment stuff, but how it got there is one of the many
mysteries that make the poor pill-roller’s life a warfare—
and a Bulgarian one at that.”
A PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bring me out of the Ruck, 0 God !
From where the toilers slave and plod,
To 1 ? earth SWeats with h «"?ering crowds ;
To coot green fields and sun-kissed clouds.
With Th y help 7 fools call it luck !
y strong right hand, bring me out of the Ruck !
Out of the Ruck, O Lord, I pray,
Bring me, from where the brawlers bray
Drunk with their greedy golden lust,
Away from the clatter and hurry and dust,
the bo °£ ed B °uls lie in the muck,
i Thy long right arm, take me out of the Ruck !
HIPHEN.
A SOLILOQUY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sitting here in my old armchair,
The long years pass before my eyes
In slow review. And this I swear:
Of all the might-have-beens that rise,
The worst one is—supposing there
Had been no serpent in Paradise?
H.E.
A QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You have heard of the story of Adam and Eve—
Of Eve and Adam, I beg your pardon—
That frivolous couple who lived by God’s leave
In a biblical age in a beautiful garden.
Now, I’m wondering why (the cause who can trace f)
The Maker towards them His heart should so harden
As to banish this pair without a grace
In that biblical age from that beautiful garden.
It seems to be certain, excepting this pair,
No other like soul on this earth did tarry ;
There never was priest or parson there
To preach or to pray, to baptise or to marry.
Now, this is the question that I have to leave
To gossiping woman, either maiden or madam :
Was Adam really married to Eve,
Or (save us !) was Eve but the mistress of Adam ?
H.S.W.
JOHN PHILIP COOR.
ALAS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is the hue I love—
The color of the primrose in the woods,
Of burnished buttercups ’mid Austral grass
Of dancing daffodils at dewy dawn—
The color that is neither grave nor gay,
Nor sweet nor sad nor sorry—
But smiling, cool insouciance. I could weep
To see this calm tint, desecrate and vile,
Upon the tail of that unhallowed cur —
The Yellow Pup
JOHN OAEHW.


DAVID STORES, & SONS’ ,n Three ColorB - BU:K - RE3 elue
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wco-
Marking
or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
I suppose you shave ! or, if not, of course,
you require your hair trimmed. The most
fashionable gentleman’s hair-dressing saloon in
Sydney is Wild’s, at 30 Sydney Arcade—the
Arcade that runs from George-street to King-
street.*
The growing interest in local black-and-
white art will receive substantial stimulus from,
the exhibition of Phil May’s drawings prior to the.
sale on 18th September. Such a collection, by
one of the most brilliant of pen-draughtsmen, la;
never before been shown in this courtrv.
STARCH
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
w
91
r
“Melb.”: Peo-
ple will keep rubbing
things in. There is
a pretty little pam-
phlet just out, “ Me-
mento of Cairns
Memorial Church,
East Melbourne.” It
shows how, by the
exertions of pastor
Ewen, formerly of Syd-
ney, the debt has been
entirely cleared off,
£9OOO being paid in 4£
years. One Sharp
dabbed down £lB7O,
and one Shaw £lOOO.
Another excellent
gent, Murray, be-
queathed £3OOO for the
spire ; but the estate
didn’t pan out, so
there is nary a spire.
I remember howan-
other churoh
clutched £lOOO from
a Melbournetimber
merchant, and was
deaf when his
daughter appealed,
in dire poverty.
However, as to the
Cairns Memorial.
This “Cause” cost
altogether £23,000,
was launched by
seceders from the church
actually left by Dr. Cairns
—Chalmers Church, Eastern
Hill. They seceded because
pastor Scott preached Higher
Criticism. The ultimate result
was that Chalmers’ church fell
into the hands of the Roman
Catholics. They pulled it down,
and incorporated the very stones
in the convent buildings, now on
the premises. Meanwhile a futile
attempt is made to console the angry
ghost of Cairns, the bitterest enemy
of the Catholics, with a tablet in the
Cairns Memorial Church.
That fat oyster, the estate of Jones, of
Footscray (Vic.), deceased, being opened, is now
in process of being assimilated by the devil’s
brigade. Jones foolishly died intestate, leaving
±.‘30,-000 odd, and already the recognised claimants
to the estate include a sister, six cousins, and two
nephews. There are also some 30 or more
claimants not yet sorted out, so to speak, includ-
ing 17 Welsh, five British, three from Maoriland,
and several sundries. These have a “possible,”
but the English commission now taking evidence
has also been attacked by over 300 people who
want to share the estate because they are named
Jones, and the vast and complicated suit threatens
to extend out to the day after Judgment. The
only man who can afford to die intestate is one
with a name like Micah Spottlejar. When a
Jones or a Smith does it, all the estate goes in
investigating the claims of Joneses and Smiths.
* * * *
During the August sittings of the Divorce
court at Melbourne altogether 48 petitions were
heard, and three struck out. Thirty-nine divorces
were granted. In 29 cases the wife was the
petitioner. The grounds on which these succeeded
were plain desertion (23), desertion with other
offences (2), misconduct (3), drunkenness and
crueity (1). Husbands gained decrees on the
grounds of misconduct (6) and desertion (4).
A LOST QUANTITY.
TOTTIE : “ Yes, dear boy, you are losing your
hair. ”
THE DEAR BOY ( cursing the barber for his care-
lessness in arranging the 17 remaining ones):
Yes, it is coming out in handfulls every
day”
Reported from Tasmania :
A circular has been issued by the Government to all
civil servants, asking if they, or their wives, have any
private sources of income.
That seems to indicate a new development of
Jvyabratnism-—to treat the civil servant’s salary
like a Victorian old age pension and reduce it if
he has other means of livelihood.
* * * *
“ Kati’s ” philosophy :
Love, courtship, and marriage are most interesting to
watch from a safe distance. I love to see the play of
forked lightning some way off, but I don’t wish to handle
it. I might hurt it. These light goods are soon damaged.
Or it might hurt me. Anyhow, I’m satisfied to look at
marriage or forked lightning. Any person who wants to
stroke the mane of either of them can have my share of
its mane.
AT THE RAILWAY STATION.
HE (who is not so sober): “I say, Mister; is
all them clocks right? ”
HE (who is quite sober): “Of course they are.”
HE (not so sober): “ Well, I must be bad.”
It is solemnly alleged that when the
lymph ran out in the early stages of the Launces-
ton panic, sundry doctors used glycerine instead
and took the money just the same. The people
who were glycerined felt safe anyhow, and their
hair, which had been standing up, lay down again.
* » * *
“ F.C.” : Re the nice new bed from the
time-payment warehouse, and the great rag-and-
bottle industry. A lady friend of mine lately
turned out, with a view to airing, a flock bed
she had just bought from a big city shop. In it
she discovered a considerable portion of a woman’s
dress, including the pocket which had a shilling
inside.
* * * *
Australia’s expected visitor and prophet,
John Alexander Dowie, of the wings, has patented
a machine, with clockwork attach-
ment, for the purpose of registering
the intercessions on behalf of those
of his faithful followers who are
sick. When the ailing one has dis-
gorged to a specified amount, he
or she receives from the machine
aforesaid a printed slip, reading
“Prayed for, Ist April, 12 p.m.,”
as a guarantee of good faith. To
relieve the dire stress of those
Zionites who experience a sudden
pain far from headquarters, Dowie
now—at a fixed rate per prayer, of
course—prays over the telephone,
so that the intercession is heard by
the patient. And for those who
Eine to have the pious prophet’s
eauteous sentiments .always on
tap, the prophet aforesaid has
raised his gentle voice at the
mouth of the phonograph, and
undertakes, for a more or less
number of dollars, to forward
cylinders bearing the x'esult to his rabbit-faced
adherents in any part of the globe. Dowie, as a
money-making humbug, is sublime ; not even the
hooked-nosed Booth conceived so brilliant an idea
as turning out prayers to the faithful, at a fixed
Charge, by machinery !
* * * *
“ D.” : The colored quack is a magnificent
pile of conceit and ignorance. One anchored at
my gate a few evenings back, and addressed a
small crowd on his professional ability. Brown,
who lives three doors up and suffers from rheuma-
tism, hobbled up slowly. “I could cure him in
twenty-four hours,” said the colored gent. Mrs.
Jones walked past. He diagnosed her coinplaint
in half a second ; it was a fatal disease and ho.
assured the audience he could cure her in three
minutes. Then my better half came up the street,
and the “ nig.” recognised her when she was still
yards away as a sufferer from “sluggish liver.”
Here I climbed over the back fence into
M'Dougall’s yard, and borrowed M'Dougall’s
dog. The diseases it suffers from are large teeth,
bad temper, and great celerity. It cured the
nigger in two minutes of his worst disease—the
disease of being outside our gate.
A Melbourne man on Tait’s railways :
Either Vic. Railway Commissioner Tait is carrying out
the set instructions of the Cabinet to bring the service
to such utter ruin that the people will presently be glad
to lease or sell the lines, or else he is grafting here the
railway policy of Canada—the country of long distances,
land grants and small cities. In either case, the disastrous
results are showing themselves. The system, as a whole,
js admittedly hard to deal with, but Tait is rapidly bring-
ing even the suburban lines—hitherto very profitable—to
a non-paying state. Such a master of “ traffic ”as Tait
was alleged to be must know the folly of frequent time-
table changes, yet these have been the order of the
month, since he took charge. A glance at the present
tables makes one wonder whether the designer thereof
was a passenger-traffic expert or a road-roller fireman.
Such populous suburbs as Box Hill, Surrey Hills and
Canterbury get three trains to town between 6.37 and 7.7
p.m., then there is a vast gap till 8.57. Oakleigh has to
cool its heels on the platform for an hour and a half at a
time ; populous places like Mordialloc and Mentone see
vast blanks representing two hours’ time on their tables ;
even Bent’s Brighton only gets one train an hour in the
evenings. Brighton is naturally furious, which would be
a pleasing episode if that were all; but, meantime, the
railway revenue is falling worse than ever. When the
infrequent trains do run, they mostly consist of nine or
ten huge carriages more than half empty, save for the
busy hour morning and evening. What the suburban
traffic needs is a frequent speedy service of short trains,
with engines kept up to the mark and permanent way in
thorough order; but, either Tait hasn’t sense enough to
see this, or it isn’t intended he should.
* * * *
Some years ago a Tasmanian Government
decided, and persuaded Parliament, that it would
be a noble idea to construct a road to the signal
station at Mount Nelson, where the finest view,
within easy access of Hobart, is to be obtained.
The road was started, and for a long period con-
struction went on. This national work has grown
very gradually, and is not yet completed; but,
thanks to the method of its growth, it is so far
not of the slightest use to anybody. Fact is, that
the Works Department commenced the road
away at the back of everywhere, and worked on
to the top. From this back of everywhere to the
top there is now a very passable road, indeed, but
as there’s no connecting link between the back of
everywhere and Hobart town, the road would not
be a bit less valuable if it were a boy with bunyips '
on him.
Mark Lome writes :
Re “ Z.’s” remarks (Bulletin, 9,7/’OS). If, as he says,
it is the best class of man who is addicted to the practice
of fathering 1 big families, the glorious future of mankind
is assured. But is such the case ? Observation shows
that the broad-shouldered, straight-backed man, with the
bright eye and clear complexion—the man who meets
adversity and conquers every time—is usually content
with a family of three or four sturdy editions of himself.
He will see that they get, physically and mentally, the
best possible development, and in the majority of cases
they do him credit. If you want to get the best
progenitive results (taking numbers as a standard), the
white-faced, weak-kneed draper’s assistant, or the con-
sumptive clerk who braces himself up with a course of
whisky revivers, are sometimes a howling success. Again,
observe cases where statisticians have sought to prove
that the criminal instinct is hereditary. These show
that certain notorious examples have, in a couple of
generations, been responsible for a prolific army of black-
guards. Now, where are the direct descendants of the
great men of history—poets, statesmen, generals, etc.?
No ; I think the champion of the big family is wrong.
The above isn’t conclusive. Very often the
people who figure out how one notorious criminal
had 146 criminal descendants are not statisticians,
but only Methodist preachers. In any case, they
generally include in the list the descendants of
the criminal’s brothers and sisters, and on that
basis many pious men who died unmarried left
thousands of descendants. As to the where-
abouts of the descendants of great men, it is
difficult, in many cases, to trace them, because
they have dropped into obscurity; still, when a
title was hung on to them to keep their names to
the front in books of reference, they seem fairly
traceable. The descendant of Columbus is a live-
meat duke at present. The descendants of Welling-
ton, Marlborough, Alfred the Great, Robert Bruce,
Frederick the Great, Rudolph of Hapsburg,
Henry of Navarre, Henry Parkes, Abraham (of
the Old Testament) and Othman, can still be
found ; and whatever doubts there may be about
Parkes and Abraham, the others were great men.
The descendant of Milos Obrenovitch would prob-
ably be alive to-day if he wasn’t dead. Nobody
can prove that the descendants of hundreds of
other great men, including Nimrod and Hannibal,
are extinct. “Mark Lome ” should bear up.
* * * *
“J.F.D.”: Note the trampled, crushed
expression of the poor terrace houses. The doors
when open give one the impression that the
structure is gasping for breath. I could never live
in a terrace house ; the pained look on the face of
the middle house protesting against the continual
squeezing, and the heavy breathing of its chimney,
are too much for my nerves. The middle house
seems to live in constant dread of being crushed
back out of the line, and put somewhere in the
back vard. And they are getting worse, they are
growing taller and thirnor. The backbone of
staircase is the only thing that keeps.the walls
apart. Some day the middle house will die of
suffocation in dead earnest and the struggle to
extract the corpse for burial will be like trying to
get a smashed snake from between two iron safes.
# * * *
That “grand old flag” boom in the
Yicto ian State schools seems to have-been buried
with Sargood. When the movement was started
it was understood that the office of hoister or
keeper of the rag was to be conferred on the
good prig of the school as a special recognition of
his goodness. But there can’t be any good prig
left, for the G.O.F. is seldom hoisted now. In
one school, certainly, it is flying day and night, but
that banner was nailed to the post to save string,
and is a permanency.
Beside the awful flood of “loyal” slush
from the literary caterpillars about the “glories,”
“magnificence,” “awe-inspiring ceremonies,”
"evidences of our empire’s might,” &c., &c., at the
late lamentable Durbar, the plain, true words of
Mrs. Craigie (“John Oliver Hobbes”) gleam like
pearls set in gold. Speaking of the procession of
native princes, shesays: “What histories, what
traditions, what crimes they represented. This
portion of the procession seemed a horrible medley
of the infernal and grotesque, the ancient barbaric
and the modern vulgar, the superb and the
squalid ; a manifestation of power without glory,
of rank without grace, of riches without beauty,
of pomp without philosophy, and pride without
strength.” Then she tells of one prince who was
half insensible from opium, having a “loyal,
beneficent smirk painted on his inexpressive
countenance, so that it could neither fade nor
falter.” This part of the vain, squalid circus was
realistically suggestive. A painted smile on
India’s face, to hide the hate below.
* * » *
“D.H.R.”: In reply to “David” (8.,
6/8/’O3) on a lip question. None of the three
reasons assigned by ‘ ‘ David ” are correct. The
long upper lip in female school teachers is the
result of trying to look severe and impressive by
compressing the lips, thereby elongating the top
lip, which is not so firm as the bottom one, and
elongates easily. The long upper lip predominates
also in male teachers and parsons, and is notice-
able more amongst the elder personages than
amongst new recruits. Know, however, one
exception to this rule. A young lady teacher of
my acquaintance, who is a splendid teacher, has a
short upper lip, and kisses admirably. She
generally kisses me, so I know.
INTELLIGENT FELLOW!
“ Have you seen Percy? He looks quite cheerful .”
“ Oh, the other day he came across one of the
money-lender s" advertisements ‘Why remain
hard-up? ’”
The Australian who is streaking to cold
Canada will strike trouble when he starts to look
for a divorce. Except as to New Brunswick and
Nova Scotia, that business is done there exclu-
sively by the Dominion Senate ; and the Senate
doesn’t do it until after about three tons of for-
malities have been complied with, and even then
misconduct is the only ground that is recognised.
Only about seven applications are dealt with per
session ; the rest of the people who might make
applications mostly put up with it, or go over the
border to Dakota or some other place for a while.
*** * '
A striking example of the humanity of the
undesirable immigrant is related by a misguided
philanthropist who was raising funds to save the
babies in China. She waited on several “Lillie
Buk-stleet” merchants, but got nothing. “ Why
won’t you subscribe ? ” she asked a prominent tea
importer at last, in desperation. “No want save
Chinee baby. Too many Chinaman alleady. Let
some die ! ” was the laconic reply.
OUR JOURNEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Time is a vista of endless slopes,
Astrewn with human smiles and tears ;
Life is a river where all our hopes
Are stepping-stones across the years.
Youth is a pathway, sunlit and fair,
Rosy-red in a land of dream ;
Age is a mountain hoary and liare,
Ghostly grey where the grave-lights gleam 1
TAS.
J. E. PHILP.


FACILE PRIIMCEPS.
SEMPER iDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
*.t* E
A *lfr
w
V
cr
cA
G
<?*
o''
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
Maltese Laces
Up-to-date Novelty Laces which are
not to be seen every day. The
biggest, brightest, and best display
to be found anywhere, and every-
thing marked at
Economical Prices.
MALTESE LACE SCARVES—
10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 15s. 6d., 17s. 6d.,
19s. 6d., 215., 27-s. 6d., 355. to 555.
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion"
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
Women! why be thin and undeveloped?
Lact&, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
7s. 6d,> post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily,. all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne.*
“ K.” : Patience is a very desirable virtue;
especially in Russia. Just heard of two Russian
prisoners who escaped after spending four years
arranging their plan of campaign. The man who
devised the plan could only communicate it to
the other at the rate of one word a day, except on
rare occasions when he spoke two. The pair saw
each other just once in the 24 hours when they
Eassed in the exercise yard, and Ivan Ivanovitch
roke the news by instalments to Paul Pauloff
as they crossed each other. Penal sentences are
fairly long in Russia, else the game wouldn’t be
Worth the candle.
“VALAZE” Russian Skin Food eradicates
freckles, wrinkles, sunburn, sallowness, acne pimples,
all blemishes. Guaranteed to improve'the worst skin in
one month. Price 3s 6d and 6s, postage 6d. Miss Nellie
Stewart writes : “ Valaze has made a marvellous differ-
ence in my complexion; cannot praise it enough.”
Helena Rubinstein & Co., 138 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.*
s
Dress fvvBRies
Are
Stocked bv the
(Leading Drapers
t* varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER,
Mt Dm Am- B *’' 1 Sep ‘ emb “ “• 1903 -
The month of September in Sydney has ceased
™ * he 12 months chain and has em-
bodied itself into a kind of female centaur—to
such an extent has the A.J.C. spring meeting
wi th !ts fine parade of women and horses domi-
nated the month.
Racing was as usual. No one entered a draught
,e w at rac ? 3 ’, or a kangaroo for the
Steepiechase Woman-half of the show was not just
as usual course, the fashions change from year
fe. Th ? bottle-neck figure is again in vogue!
Everything in the way of dressing is intended to
accentuate the droop of shoulder line. Long
pendant earrings are supposed to aid the effect,
a number of fashion-plate women carried long
lobe-drops. A diamond for the stud part, then a
long pearl or emerald, finished with a tiny scin-
tillating diamond. The ears must be pierced, for
these precious stones would scarcely be trusted to
springs. Somebody told me she had seen at
Monday s meeting a woman with odd earrings—
a fane black pearl in one hearer, and a fine pearly
pearl in the other listener. I came on a
girl a Somebody girl—whose sleeves (the
long flapping ends of the elbow sleeves of
crSpe de chine) were tied behind her back—in
a ai j. r u knot, too. A terrible infant brother
must have done it. Of course, the side show
didn t last long. Someone told. But whilst they
were tied she used her race glasses, put up her
sunshade, and otherwise proved how superfluous
were the wings.
t new c,lam Pagne-color was well represented.
Lady Kawson, at Monday’s meeting, wore a silk
canvas of that wine tint. Bare necks and trans-
parent blouses were plentiful. On the hot Satur-
day the style was not out of season, but on Monday
the weather was refrigerating. No heat makes
the female complexion look worse than does a
cold, nipping, gusty wind. The dress leaders at
Mondays parade either wore no veils or the
flimsiest apologies for such, so there was a great
show of mottled or pallid “leathers,” to quote the
German s translation of “skins.”
Some of the best-dressed women were in all
blaek, or- bl a ek with white hats, or in all white.
Mrs. Mayoress Hughes was one of the first of the
best-dressed. Mrs. Philip Morton was an all-
blacker, in crSpe-de-chin'e with a lot of hard
work on it—skirts are awfully “cut up ” with cir-
cumference gatherings and longitudinal pipings—
and a half-mile of black, shimmering spindrift scarf
accompanied a hat curving above her brow like
the prow of a Roman galley. She was ear-ringed
with long emeralds. Mrs. Dailey was another
earring wearer—fine turquoises. Mrs. D. did
the incognita act in a heliotrope-laden hat
crammed down over all her several features.
By the way, this lady’s brother-in-law, Mr W
Dailey, wears a tall hat that keeps his ears
imprisoned. Either he took it by mistake from
the giant who sits next him at church, or it is the
latest, doggiest thing in male hat gear.
Miss Irene Marks’ gown was a perfect nectarine
m the last-minute fabric known as crepe-de-
Alexandre , named so because the Queen wore a
frock of the new thing just after her coronation.
It was a “Holder” gown in champagne tint
lavishly trimmed with Oriental embroidery and
lace. Mrs. Burdekin’s figured heliotrope, satiny
covering was played upon by the wind so as to
make it ripple as pond water ripples—quite a
different shiver from that of other dress fabrics.
Drey lace is uncommon, isn’t it—a blue-metai
shade of grey ? Mrs. Arthur Tickell wore a grey '
poplin trimmed with lace of that stony
shade. Mrs. Purefory, the man-o’-war lady
(be sure you call her Perfoy) apparently
increased her height, which is considerable
lth r, real T 1 elegant thing in stripes!
Mrs. Coleman Burke was an all-whiter, with a
black hat. Her over-dress, over chiffon, was of
net, heavily embroidered with leaves and blossoms
slJ k- , Amongst other peachy toilettes were
Mrs. Waley s white ecrepe-de-chine, with Chantilly
lace and a wonderful double collar of opals; Miss
Russell French’s pink muslin ; and Miss Hilda
Caro s champagne crepe-de-chin, with guipure
lace and orchid choux.
i i the one that took my fancy was a
big black one, of crinoline straw, with not an. atom
framing on it. Two gold-headedpinsshewered
wto the hair. Another original wore a bluehairy
Esau thing, covered with red passion flowers.
• No daffodil.show this year, out of respect to Mr.
Burton Bradley, whose eldest son recently died
Mr. 8.8. is one of the high priests of the Narcissus
cult. ,
r P ubl >c mention had been made of Mrs.
Leland Stanford’s identity the lady’s daily mail
taxed the pigeon-hole accommodation of the Hotel
Australia. Begging letters, most of them. There
were many requests from would-be students for
admittance to the University which her husband
founded In fact, an extreme thirst for knowledge
was professed in most of the letters. On her
return here from Melbourne, Mrs. Stanford
intends to give an imitation of the Good Samaritan
act. She will need to-issue invitations, else be
prosecuted for overcrowding.
Dean O’Hea, who. died recently at Melbourne;
Vic at close upon 90 years of age, was a genial,
witty, shrewd' clenc, who knew a good wine ora
new dish as. well as Emily Soldene. During the
Melbourne Exhibition of ’BB two M.L. school-
girls, who. came over to look at china-painting
ironmongery, and cream-separators, made acquaint-
ance with the “Dane” through patting his dog
ip the corridor of the Exhibition Building. He
asked them to lunch at his house at Coburg
They sat down to the meal at 1 o’cloek. There
were seven different kinds of wine on the table,
but the youngsters, who had never tasted wine,
nearly perished of thirst, for they were to©'shy to*
ask for tea or water. At 3.30 a servant inserted!
his head into the. dining-room andi cut short the
qourses and the priest’s stories of early Melbourne;
with the remark, “Sure, Dane,.have'ye forgotten
that ye’ve to be at the Archbishop’s at four?”'
Monsignor, as he became later in, life, had a niece
married to accountant Sutton of the Akgus.
Grand-niece Edith Sutton was awhile on the
stage, then went to S’Africa, and' did something,
smart in tea rooming or millinery.
A scornful correspondent writes to me gibing at
the assertion that Lady Londonderry, or any other-
grande dame, ever kissed Melba’s hand. “Lady
de Grey,” writes the correspondent, “ might give
Melba a little peck on the cheek, and the London-
*uss over h or when she had enter-
•e d her and her friends with her expensive
i°e for nothing. Bub to hang on to Melba’s
saiary-hooJc and kiss it !-No, no. Lady L. and
, llk heep hand-kissing for Queen Alexandra
As for the ‘sunburst’ flunkeys and the
•-studded doors (nothing was said about
at kind of door), surely anyone who is merely
cn enough may command these luxuries?”
Crossley arrives Friday evening or Saturday
morning, and, as there’s nothing more to be told
fvr i or Y oice a * present, anxious inquirers are
ailing back on the nursing and feeding of that
voice. Also they want to know the contralto’s
waist measurement and her size in shoes, and if
f??. ,P 18 &°od for sacred-music production, and
Will she say D- !as did the last star that rolled
within our orbit. Ada is reported to come on to
he stage and glide off as gracefully as though she
travelled on invisible skates. While in Melbourne
s eis to stop a while at State Government House.
a T S rr ross ey s rst appearance will be at the
A.J.O. races on Saturday.
A star cellist’s engagement is off, joyous news
or the girl’s mother; she would not welcome
the star cellist as a son-in-law. Stars are not
good as matrimonial mates. This cellist’s valet
used to bnlliantine his hair and manicure
his priceless paws. Such pets should never be
taken out of the water-lily lake of elegant
bachelordom to be thrown into the suds of
domestic life.
Peterkin, the basso, and his wife, Marjory
airne, who came out with Lloyd, have been
lmng at Manly all these days waiting the
Crossley arrival. He has been practising against
great rivals, those league-long rollers thundering
on the beach, so his voice is no reedier than of
yore.
Another artist who has adopted Manly is Gran,
the Lord Jeffreys of the “ Sweet Nell ” co. It has
always worried me to know why anyone who has
to come to town every day lives at Manly. Fancy
taking two long sea-voyages between your morning
coffee and your vesper mutton. Yet people do,
and grow fat on it. They play bowls and press
sea-weed and pass the basket at divine service.
Was at Manly the other evening, and our enter-
tainer, whocarriesa humorous watch, turned us out
just m time to miss a boat, so we wandered about
u hour and I got a glimmering of the reason
why Manly is inhabited. No whirr of trams, not
a rumble of a cart, no crowing barn-yard bird,
no barking dog ; no sound but the splendid bass
or the ocean. People live there because they can
s | ee P soundly. Not a human, save we two, was
abroad, yet the night was quite young. The police
force of the district had foregathered under a
ijghted window, and was listening to Peterkin
and his Marjorie singing. On the long beach
(where the undertow takes you out and drowns
you) all the sea-poetry from Homer to Tennyson
that you have read and forgotten breaks the dusty
seal of memory, springs to the lips and recites
itself.
. r * W. A. Robyns, the well-known bass-singer,
is on his way to better-known lands. He has a
concert at Sydney Town Hall on Sept. 23, in
which he will be aided by a shoal of favorite-
artists. Robyns has been bass soloist to Dolores,
Newbury, Carlo Dani, the Amateur Orchestral
and Liedertafel societies.
Mrs. Fitzgerald, nee Miss Ward, the daughter
of a former Sydney Registrar-General, gives a
concert on Sept. 22, at Sydney Town Hall. The
lady, who has a fine mezzo-soprano (same adjec-
tive may be applied to her personal appearance),
has been studying in Europe for the past seven
years. . Book seats at Paling’s. Maestro Sykes is
managing the concert.
One who knew the late Phil May well in
London says he was that unique personality, a
famous man without an enemy. He was - recog-
nised wherever he appeared in the streets, and
the cabbies liked him so well that they would
entreat him to drive free. When he was intro-
duced to a person his formula was, “Glad
to ™ oefc you. Tell me the story of your life 1”
At the Savage Club banquet in honor of Nansen,
the explorer, the Duke of Cambridge, on seeing
Mill enter the hall, said “Here is the first
gentleman in England ! ” It was understood that
May s regard for the feelings of others was so keen
that he never rasped their susceptibilities, and the
compliment was paid on that score.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The surprise in connection with the late
Duncan Gillies was the discovery that he was a
married man of six years standing. How the
supposed bachelor must have chuckled when he
read paragraphs crediting him with matri-
monial intentions towards this tuneful maid or the
other moneyed widow ! Maybe, though, there
was nothing to chuckle about. A bridegroom of
over threescore, whose bride is parted from him
.by the breadth of the Indian Ocean, might be
conscious of little to laugh at.
The brusque little figure of Sammy Gillott has
been missing from the municipal and parliamen-
tary haunts for many days. He has been shock-
-ITlflly ill with influenza. Mrs. Gillott has been
nursing his Worship devotedly. Meanwhile,
battles rage among intending successors to the
mayoral perch on the expiration of the Gillott
*® r “- The issue is said to lie between Malcolm
M Eacharn and D. V. Hennessey.
There is a daily lesson for the dyspeptic
moralist in the patrons at the IVtuto. or Beauty
scope establishments. There the amorous fat man,
the raw youth, and the giggling girl take their
rapturous pennyworth of peep. I looked on at
the fat man taking a view of Susannah, or some-
thing of the kind, the other day. He approached
the machine with a smile of gusto decorating his
countenance. Then he seized the handle, glued
his face in the aperture, and excitedly started to
see Susannah. His bulging cheeks grew gradually
red —he was laughing. In his delight, he turned
the handle rapidly just as he was near the climax
of his gloat—there was a click, and his eyes peered
into emptiness. He drew himself up, disap-
pointed, peered around, saw no one looking,
dropped in another copper, and turned the handle
slowly this time, to make Susannah last longer.
All the fat men gloat in a like way.
“ A fair globe-trotter, who recently encountered
Joseph Chamberlain, brings a novel light to bear
on the screw-maker. He has a manner of meeting
one that is so furtive, shrewd and sly that a feeling
of uneasiness arises. He is polite to punctilious-,
ness, but a newcomer experiences that uneasiness
through all the veneer and the soft assurance of
the exotic in the button-hole. His speeches strike
the ear strangely. He hesitates, dashes at a sen-
tence, delivers it with point, and hangs fire at the
end. He always hesitates, and always gives
weight to the prepared words. He is a strange
man, automatic, cold and calculating.
“ Another Woman’s club is contemplated. This
is to be smart and liberal in a way. Male visitors
are to be admitted to luncheon, dinner, Bridge, or
chat Its camp is already pitched in Collins-
street and the naicest only need apply.
“ Miss Beatty Kingston, the large, timid blonde
of ‘ Are You a Mason ? ’ co., confesses that, at one
time, she had thoughts of following her father’s
footsteps along the Inky Way, but, having inter-
viewed the terrible head of a large paper concern
in London, she changed her mind instanter.
She gravitated then to the footlights, and moved
on to legitimate drama, playing once with Henry
Irving, when that potentate exhorted the novice
to play her little love passage ‘ with more sympathy
and affection.’ Therein spoke the actor-manager.
Miss Beatty Kingston still needs to be exhorted
to invest her art with emotion. She is merely
carried through her present part by her physique
and her gorgeous frills.
“Ada Crossley should oil up her wrist and
make for a suppleness of finger joints before she
ventures in this State. In town and country,
legions of old friends are waiting to greet her with
a horse-power clasp and a green memory of the
long, long ago. Ada may expect a bigger hustle
among the pump-handlers than Melba endured*
The Melba magnificence, and the Melba bluntness,
and the Melba mastery of mind kept off many of
the timorous. But panegyrists (mostly feminine)
praise the Crossley for amiability, and innocently
prepare a wild burst of welcomers from Colling-
wood to Croajingalong. By the way, Melba had
a father. Crossley has, as a pathetic background,
an old, feeble mother waiting for her in Gippsland. ;
“There come glittering accounts of Mrs.
Baronet Clarke’s chats with the Prince !of Wales,
and the ducal crushes at her new Mayfair mansion
(Rupert’s latest gifts), and they are carefully sent
to quarters which promise the most publication.
“ Mr. J. Hamilton Reid, just dead at the age of
52, had climbed from the position of junior book-
ing-clerk in the Victorian railways (starting work
at 14) to the important post of Auditc r-General of
the State. He climbed* too, without losing, a
shred of his natural geniality, frankness, and
loyalty to the old chums of his youth. The
troubles of the railway men, consequent upon
their unsuccessful strike, helped to drive the first
nail into his coffin. His position debarred him
from expressing what he felt, but he looked 10
years older at the end of the battle than he did
when he first knew that his old mates had declared
war. In his day he had been a good cricketer,
was a great reader, and particularly susceptible to
the charms of poetry.
“Spring garb broke into full brilliancy at the
Saturday Town Hall Concert, where Mark of tire
inky mane made music, and Marshall Hall with
eyebrows in brisk agitation) wrought great baton
calisthenics. Hut Society in the front seats didn’t
hold the proverbial rush-light to the glory of one
theatrical star. This was Mrs. Kelly, late Miss
Knight Mollison, whose complete mounting of
blue, in all the intricacies of silk, chiffon, lace
applique, and Oriental ornamentation, provided
the dress sensation of the evening. And if the
object of dressing is to create a sensation it was
achieved unihistakably.
“Young Boris Hambourg sat amid some
Collins-street medicoes. He has crowds of young
Cyntliias adoring him in this capital, but on Satur-
day elected to mingle witli the fashionable males,
and interpret the meaning of brother Mark’s
music. That’s the worst of girls running after a
man ; he gets as coy and as stand-offish as a young
beauty.
“George Coppin grows into old age happily,
even gracefully, for one of such bulk. Although
these are days when he can’t amble any distance
without a stout stick and a daughter to spread
out the rug for a rest, the fine old man is cheerful,
good-tempered, and looks when seated something
like the monumental Dr. Johnson with his massive
head sinking into his bent frame. He had a
- prominent place at the Saturday Hambourg
concert, where the Bland Holts and their party
showered'all kinds of attention on the veteran.
He showed his appreciation of the Hambourg
strains by thumping the floor with his stick and
waving his colossal handkerchief. He’s a virile
old soul for 90.
“The Huttons were in the Tennyson box first
night of ‘ Resurrection.’ Lady Tennyson had a
tightly-compressed wreath of blue flowers that
fitted on her small crown knob in a lid fashion.
Her dress was happier. White in tone, it had
some artistic finishings in a black applique.
“‘Resurrection’ is sobful. .It is years since
women sniffed, blew their noSes, and' shed the
brine of sympathy as they did at the first presen-
tation of the Tolstoy tragedy-oil Saturday night.
Maud Jeffries’ under-lip has a curious little twist
at moments of strong anguish that moves the
heart of an audience to an instant pity. Her
pathos is genuine; her groan real. It’s a far cry
from the quaint and arch Katusha of the demure
twin-plaits, the scarlet knots, and the tremulous
tongue in the country house scene, to the
Katusha of drunken habits and evil records,
in the prison yard. She plays the derelict in the
proper key, and screeches her drink curses with
horrible realism, while the tearful audience mops
up the brine of deep feeling. In the Siberian
days of her reformation Katusha is still pursued
harrowingly by the moist eye of the females, and
her final stroke of pathos before the crucifix of her
dead past and her present purification brings this
aquarelle in art to a most watery conclusion.
J.C. W. should stretch a few clothes lines over the
stalls for drying of cambrics between the acts.
No woman’s * wipe ’ can stand the strain of ‘ Re-
surrection.’
“In these nights of strenuous Tolstoy drama at
Her Majesty’s, it is high time that.the bill of the
playhouse (which has Flossie Fewclothes executing
a dizzy back-kick on the cover) should be more in
keeping with the sort of show that is going. A
Scarlet Woman of Sorrow on an Ethiopian back-
ground, or a wrathful Fate overshadowing a
People of Sin, or the Tragic Muse herself in
dishabille, would be more meet and proper
designs for the programme cover. The present
giddy picture should not stay. It’s like a can-can
interlude at a sensational funeral.
“ A large, handsome widow does Collins-street
these days in magnificent habiliments of woe, a
five yard train, and a full flush of weeds. It is a
frank revel in grief. ;
“ The motor grows more common. At s o’clock
the other day, in Collius-st. (Melb.), I counted
seven of the fiendish things pulsing along with a
great whizz and aloud smell. Along Toorak-rOad
one sometimes catches a glimpse of a motoring
she, but not often. Grace Palotta, long ago,
dusted and begritted herself and her chiffons on
the highway in a motor, but no other smart
feminine reckoned that the game was worth the
spoil. A woman can go much faster in a spotless
crepe-de-chine than in a motor-car.
“The» crack she-golfer has tried all ways of
getting away from feminine traits and feminine
vanities. She would be all that may become a man.
The best example up to date is Miss Bateman, of
Warrnambool. She cut an extraordinary figure
in the eyes of the 1 random onlookers at the
Tournament last week. Her square, manly
figure was covered with a scutty skirt, clearing
the ankles, a sac coat, a dicky, a tie, and a straw
decker. Her hair was polished up and brushed
away under the crown, so as to appear short-cut
from the distance. It was not short-cut, though ;
she has not yet burned her boats. The champion
adds to the gentlemanly cut of her outfit by a
strong sun-tanned face, with a pair of keen mas-
culine eyes. Her golf play is strong, clear, crisp.
She scores particularly at ‘ putting ’ shots, which
are as neat as flawless billiard strokes.
“ ‘Nono ’ Morrison is back in Melbourne seeing
after _ the affairs of his father, the late Dr.
Morrison. _ The old doctor was a poorer man
when he died than he had been at one time, but
his eight children are all settled comfortably in
life, so the comparative smallness of their father’s
residuary estate is a matter of less moment than
it might be to some clans.
“ The State Parliament opening was aflat, stale
event, most notable for the social absentees. No
she-Excellenoy, no Mayoral pair, none of the
Maddens.
“Mask hops are not ended. An unobtrusive
set of Scandinavians, and those with interests in
Norseland, proclaim that they intend to dance in
visors and disguises, or ‘ad ’ hoardings, on the
24th, at the Masonio Hall.
“ It is whispered in quite the nicest circles that
one parting souvenir handed along to Cuyler
Hastings by girly friends was a sovereign case
inscribed with a crown and something about him
as the King of Hearts. Why not King of Tarts?
“ They say that a forthcoming corset will re-
adjust the feminine figure. The present straight-
fronted apparatus plagues the pantry; the latest
will give woman’s ungentle appetite a better
show.
“The suicide of chemist Davenport closes a
sombre history pf two closely linked partners.
Messrs. Simpson and Davenport entered the
laboratory together 40 years ago, or perhaps a
little less. They were apprenticed and plodded
along together. Both were with the venerable
Ford more than 20 years ago. Then the two
joined forces and started an establishment of
their own ip Swanston-street. The firm flourished.
They went along to Collins-street, and thrived
further. Then Simpson developed mental
trouble. He fought against it, but finally drifted
into the care of the proper authorities.
Next, the only daughter of Mr. Davenport died
under pathetic circumstances. Brain trouble
threatened in his case. Last act, death by
poison.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HALE AND HEARTY.
“Three and a half years ago I was fit for nothing,” says Mrs. Louisa Player, Georgina Terrace, 49
Wolfe-street, Newcastle. “My blood was too weak and watery to keep out the nagging pains of Neuralgia
and Rheumatism. The sharp, darting stabs in the back of my head nearly made me mad. Often I
clutched my head in a spasm of agony to get a moment’s ease. I couldn’t turn round without twisting my
whole body. The tingling aches in my arm had me so that I didn’t know which way to hold it. I couldn t
as much as hold a needle or thread. The shortest walk tired me out. Often I fell flop in the street with
dizziness. I thought my heart would break loose after the least exertion. X was too weak to eat, and I
looked like a corpse. I hardly had a drop of blood in my body. I was too tired and weary to keep my
eyes open or take any interest in life. Every medicine you could mention I swallowed, but none of them
Mrs. Louisa Player.
did me any good. I felt that Death would be my only relief, until I read how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured just such another ease as
mipe. Then I got some from Hart and Firkin, the local chemists. I felt better after the first few doses. Three boxes gave me a good
D? WILLIAMS 9
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE
£OPI,E
rich blood-supply and drove out all the poisonous acid that was racking my system with
aches and pains. Now lam hale and hearty. All the neighbors know how well lam
to-day—thanks entirely to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.”
By making new blood, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are a simple scientific cure for
anaemia, paleness, skin diseases, biliousness, indigestion, heart palpitation, St. Vitus
dance, nervousness, neuralgia, sciatica and rheumatism. 2/9 a box —six boxes 15/3.
1
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Rabbi Davis, patriarch of Sydney Syna-
gogue, retires with a pension of £3OO a year.
Phil May worked until three weeks before
his death, when his sight became paralysed ; but
he had been “dying on his feet ” for many months.
The Australian is already getting into
S’African politics. Ex - insurance drummer
McLartyi who tried for the Towers (Q.) in 1893,
has been elected to the Natal Assembly.
A newsagent —a J.P. of several years’
standing—was fined half-a-crown for yelling out
too loudly newspapers for sale in Sydney lately.
The unpaid Bench was always a nuisance.
Said of a wealthy man in one of the
Australasian States that he couldn’t get a fashion-
able club to accept him as a member until he
bought up its mortgages. Then he sim ply cantered
in.
“Nosey” Bob, N.S.W. executioner, is
said to be jealous of a particular member of Par-
liament. The member has small chance of his
seat at next elections, and from inquiries he has
been making, there is a suspicion that he is after
Mr. Howard’s billet.
Philp has been 17 years in Queensland
Parliament. The Labor party drove him out of
office when Treasurer in the Dickson Cabinet, and
has now again kicked him out when Premier.
Philp’s first office was Mines Minister in
MTlwraith’s bunch in 1893.
There is still living at Adelaide, and still
in collar, Dean Marryat, who was chaplain at
Cockatoo Island and Darlinghurst Gaols, Sydney,
over 50 years ago. In fact, he settled in South
Australia, in 1853. He has just finished 34 years
at the fashionable North Adelaide Anglican
tabernacle.
John Howard Angas, reputedly the richest
man in S.A., and probably one of the wealthiest
dwellers in the Commonwealth, will complete his
80th year on October 5 next. He has recently
been seriously ill, but is now stronger. He has
but one son and one daughter between whom to
divide his money.
The people who write most violently to
the papers about the way Labor legislation is cal-
culated to ruin the country seem to be mostly the
representatives of institutions which managed to
ruin themselves most effectually, and a good part
of the country along with them, before there was
any Labor legislation.
THE LATE DUNCAN GILLIES,
Ex-Premier of Victoria.
The Argus stoops very low in its vilifi-
cation of Tom Mann. The other day in a leading
article it referred to him as the “enthusiastic
socialist, enthusiastic —fora consideration.” The
Argus proprietary sells its high ideals and its
noble, but bloated, aspirations for a great deal
more per annum than Mann receives.
The late British Premier, Salisbury, was a
mighty jobber. He put his son, who was a pup,
and his son-in-law, who was a nonentity, and his
two nephews, one a dismal failure and the other a
tired man of some slight ability who plays golf,
all into his Ministry. And Britain is so used to
that kind of jobbing that it stood it all without a
murmur.
Globe-trotter Earl of Lonsdale, now visit-
ing Australia, says he spent two years in a log-
hut in the Arctic regions, sailed the German Em-
peror’s yacht to victory in English waters, was
one of the founders of Klondike, and has oecu-
Eied a high position in the War Office. And now
e can say that he has taken his life in both hands
and travelled by Bent’s train.
The post of Victorian Auditor-General
appears to be a strangely unlucky one. The posi-
tion was created in 1902, and the first auditor-
general was James Bagge. He held the post for
a few months only and died suddenly. In Feb-
ruary last the vacancy was filled by the appoint-
ment of J. H. Reid, ex-railway accountant. He
has died as suddenly as his predecessor.
Arthur Morgan, Queensland State Speaker
and possible Premier, started life in Warwick
(Q.) 48 years ago. He inherited politics from
Morgan senior, who represented Warwick for a
number of years, and was Chairman of Committees
during the Maealister, Thorne and Douglas'
Governments. Morgan owns the Warwick Argus,
and in his spare moments dashes off a leader or
two. He also owns the constituency, is a man of
weight (about 18 stone) and well set up, but a
pigmy compared to his little brother Sydney, who
is 6ft. 3in. and weighs, in condition, 26 stone.
DR. RAMSAY SMITH,
S.A.’s suspended Coroner, &c., &c.
E. T. Hooley, whose death was reported
by cable a week or two ago, and whom some
papers confounded with the boomster who gave
St. Paul’s its Hooley communion plate, was in
the early days a Western Vic. cow-thumper.
Afterwards (somewhere in the middle sixties) he
went to Westralia, tried to stock the wild nor’-
west, and came a cropper through poison-weed
and other things. Afterwards he tried the
Murchison, but without much success, and eventu
ally became Dalgety’s manager at Perth, Turf
Club president, a Legislative councillor, a brewery
director, and a pillar of “holy church.” Then,
having also written a bush yarn, he went to
Switzerland and died.
About the first action of returned N.S. W.
Agent-General Copeland was to distribute
his portrait in “court uniform” among
the newspapers. Copeland is remem-
bered in N.S ,W. as aheated, vigorous
man pushing things along in his
shirt-sleeves and with much blanky.
The blanky was forgiven for the
shirt-sleeves. But now—Copeland
is not the sort of ham to look
well in frills ; and he ought to have
the sense to know it.
Archer, M.L.A.’s “damn”
in N.S.W. Assembly the other day,
was a mere bubble up of his old
Palmer gold-digging life. Every-
one said “damn” on the Palmer
when Archer was there. He said
“ damn ” when he was lucky, and
when not lucky, And the fights
with the Chinese were nearly all
conducted with that weapon. On
entering a publichouse the cheer-
ful salutation was “ Damn you ! ” ;
on leaving the chorus was “Oh,
damn you ! ” It was the language
of love and hate, a slight inflection
of the voice making all the dif-
ference. The venerable Archer
is the reverse of profane. He beat
the pious M'Millan in the contest
for Burwood chiefly on the ground
that he was a pious man who didn't
swear so often as M‘Millan, and
M‘Millan is said to swear only
once in 10 vears
Senator Josiah Symon, said
to be sure of a Federal High Court
Judgeship, has so much influence
in Adelaide Supreme Court that
locally they call it the Jos. House
Malcolm M‘Eacharn, to the secretary of
the Vic. Employers’ Federation : “Until your
executive council has the decency to withdraw
the charges recklessly made against me, and which
I have proved to be glaringly false, what it
may * deem ’ of me or my opinions -is to me a
matter of supreme indifference.” One always
remarks that the ordinary public person, engaged
in a quarrel with another public person, uses
adjectives of agitation to express his “indiffer-
ence,” which is invariably “supreme.” Supreme
in all their bearings, the M‘Eacharns of this world
are supremest in their alleged indifference to
whatever makes them shriek.
The S.A. Treasurer came in for another
windfall on Tuesday, September 8, when Mr. 0.
C. Searfe, a Norwood butcher, died. He had just
inherited a large amount from his brother George
Searfe—whose estate paid the Government £75,000
in succession duty—and it is estimated that he
was worth quite £150,000. He was a quiet,
retired person, who contented himself with selling
chops and steaks, and he sold them to some pur-
pose.
Richard Williams, Bendigo’s best-known
mining manager, has gone out, aged 72. For 37
years he had managed Johnson’s Reef, a mine
which, though it hasn’t done any great things
lately, has several times led the field ; before that
he was general manager of George Lansell’s
mines. The miners liked “ Dick ”; he got plenty
of work out of them, but his mines were always
well ventilated. Unlike most old Cornish miners,
he thought a deal of “book lamin’,” and bar-
racked hard for the local School of Mines.
Dr. Rentoul, the plucky Melbourne cleric,
is generally on the right side. He battled alone for
a White Australia at the recent Convention of
Churches. Bevan twaddled for the Black, to try
the influence of Christianity and civilisation on
him. Bleeds Fitchett went strongly in the Black
Brother’s favor. The meeting passed a resolution
to petition the Australian Parliament to allow
Kanakas who wished to remain to stay in the
Commonwealth. Then it discussed why people
do not go to church.
Sam Winter, of Melbourne Herald, and
brother Joe, of the R.C. Advocate, have returned
from a short trip to Japan. The inevitable smoke
night was given by the employees of the Herald
and Weekly Times, Kunnel Reay in the chair.
Same old sycophancy, same old stiff, sit-still-and-
booze-while-bosses-scratch-backs sort of concern.
Carrington, the pious editor of the Weekly
Times, fairly surpassed himself. “A time of—er
—stwenuous stwife, of stwess and stwain—er —, ”
was one of his happiest efforts. Sam Winter
spoke for about an hour on his travels in Japan,
but, as his remarks were addressed principally to
Massina (the chairman of directors), who was
sitting near him, they were, for the most part,
inaudible. Some idea of the church-like effect of
this “welcome home” is to be gained from the
fact that not one man had the heart to get drunk.
During the big maritime strike, W. M.
Hughes (now M.H.R.) was sent by
the Labor Executive to speak at a
public meeting of sympathisers
called in a backblocks township.
He was given his return-ticket,
and had to “find” himself. Ar-
riving just before the meeting,
with an empty stomach and
three 2d. stamps, he rushed to
the post-office, which declined
to do a deal, but succeeded
in swopping his stamps with a
fruiterer for a bag of peaches.
He hurried to the meeting,
hoping he would have time to
eat a few while the chairman
was introducing him, but the
chairman only said, “Mr.
Hughes will now tell us all
about it.” He spoke for an
hour, and then sat down and
reached for his peaches to find
that the chairman had “ wolfed ”
them ! It was about that time
that he established a retail refresh-
ment business out Glebe Island
way (where the Sydney abattoirs
are). Hearing someone in the shop,
one morning, Hughes answered the
call, to find a wild-eyed prime bul-
lock wedged between the counter and
the side wall. The only weapons to
hand were the lemonade bottles on the shelf.
With a concentrated fire of these, the sanctity of
the back parlor was preserved. The bullock
couldn’t walk out backwards, but, in desperation,
it sat on the counter, pivotted round, and escaped
gladly to the slaughter-house.
Zebina Lane, the first manager of the
Great Boulder, now grand panjandrum of the
Collie Coalfields—the man who has probably made
as much coin out of Westralian goldfields as any
Australian—has got into the Legislative Council.
Mr. Lane, who is Victorian born (his father is still
mine-managing at St. Arnaud) is presumably
going into politics for the good of his health.
Barney Byrnes, Sydney’s coal merchant,
whose business has been floated into a limited co.,
now occupies the late Parkes’s house at Faulcon
bridge, on the Blue Mountains. Parkes financially
wrecked himself making that prodigious attempt
at founding a family estate. Marble mantel-
pieces, etchings and engravings tell old tales. But
the grounds are in disorder. Busts and pedestals
are broken, and the classic figures the old man set
up are mostly gone. The Government tidied up the
grounds a bit when the Duke of York visited the
place as that personage, when a princelet, planted
a tree thereabouts, but wind and rain and curiosity-
hunters have had their way. Henry Parkes and
Clarinda, his first wife, are buried at one corner of
the scene of desolation.
Four Australian beer-makers were created
by the Pope Knights of St- Brewery—or
St. Gregory. They were the late Toohey, of
Sydney, and Coghlan, of Ballarat; . also Nick
Fitzgerald and W. H. Archer, of Melbourne
(Archer is largely interested in Gastlemaine ale).
The late Dan Brophy, of Ballarat, who sold beer
if he didn’t make it, was likewise a Papal Knight.
Yet St. Gregory isn’t recorded as having been a
hard-drinking person.
Concerning one of the “ old families ” :
The Kings, descendants of Philip Gidley, who became
third Governor of N.S.W., after filling in a few years as
Commandant of Norfolk Island, cover a large part of
Australia. The original King had a considerable family,
and the best known of them, Philip Parker, who entered
the navy and became rear-admiral, but finally settled in
N.S.W., had seven sons. Most of them took either to the
water or the land. Several of them took to both. That
was the experience of Philip Gidley, of the third genera-
tion, for nearly a quarter of a century past dozing in
N.S W. Legislative Council. As a youngster he joined
the navy, and served in the famous Beagle ; later on he
became N.S.W. representative of the gorgeous
absentee Peel River Land Co 'Another brother,
just dead, Charles Macarthur, '■ had much the
same sort of experience, only, instead of sticking
to the moderately fertile coast lands, he went
further back and struck the usual disaster; and in his
old age, largely in consideration of the two names he
bore, the Government provided him with a succession of
none too comfortable billets. The Macarthur of his name
he derived from the Camden Park Macarthurs —the people
who introduced the merino to Australia—with whom the
Kings made two or three family alliances. Another
modern branch of the family is represented on the Sydney
police-court bench by Lethbridge King ; the Lethbridges
were one of the early Yandemonian families, into which
the Rear-Admiral married. Another common prenomen
of the modern King is Parker —some of this branch have
drifted out as far as Westralia. The original Parker came
to Australia as Gipps’ private secretary in 1838, and later
on became Premier. But all the Kings haven’t been
admirals and such like. One of them was lately keeping
a small bushman’s pub. in far-west N.S.W.
MUSIC AT THE MINES.
GEORDIE (as the silvery tenor responds to another
enthusiastic encore): “Shut thy face, thou
brayin’ cuddy, and let Ongcoor come out!”
Chas. McDonald, M.H.R., and watch-
maker, who moved the amendment on the Arbi-
tration Bill on which the Barton Government
was defeated, is a fighter all through. Even in
Queensland labor circles in the old days when
‘ ‘ things were made willing ” he was reckoned
about the most determined “sticker” on that
side; and, thinking that his red-hot views would
suit torrid Flinders better than any other place,
they sent him up there in 1893 to win the seat
from Gold ring who had held it for years. After
a hard fight he won by about 30 votes. In the
stormy times of ’B9-’92 he was sent down south
during the strikes to get coin and sympathy. Up
to then the south hadn’t been stirred by Laborites
to any great extent; and the way that McDonald
talked in those days sent shivers through the older
unionists. He held Flinders easily from 1893 till
Kennedy, covering the same district and some
more, wanted a Federal member ; and McDonald
won that easily. He has done more electioneering
travel by bicycle than any other man in Australia ;
most likely more than any other man in the
world.


To Play yogi* Piano
m
m ■
*§§g
The Pianola mill aid you.
We are mailing- free to anyone who will
ask us a book called “ Music in the Home."
. This book tells about the Pianola, what it
is, and what it will do. It will be of in-
terest to every person who loves music,
and particularly to the many thousand
owners of pianos whose instruments remain
unused for months at a time.
The Pianola can be played by any one,
even though they may never have played
one note in their life.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt
cash, or £65 on moderate monthly pay
ments.
HERRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
323 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY,
135-IS7 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Hardy Brothers,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS.
Watches. j
HARDY BROTHERS are noted for their High
Grade Watches in Gold, Silver and Gun-
metal.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
Goods forwarded at Sydney Prices to all parts of the
Commonwealth.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney;
and
118 Queen Street, Brisbane.
%
/
s
Solid Silver Keyless Watch, 50/-. A
thoroughly reliable timekeeper.
Aboriginalities.
Maryborough (Q.) has just captured its
historic crocodile. He had been a legend and an
institution on the Mary River for something liko
20 years, and Maryborough was long divided into
two camps—the people who believed in the ’dile
and those who declared there never was any ’dile.
Other things being equal, a Parliamentary candi-
date who believed in the reptile could always beat
one who didn’t. But even the most frequently
shot-at crocodile gets killed at last, and recently a
young man in a boat drew his gun at a venture
and plugged the old institution in the eye. Its
body was washed ashore, about a week later, 20
miles from the place where it breathed its last.
The weather was hot, and nothing like the odor
of that crocodile was ever before known in those
parts; 13J feet of crocodile that has been dead a
week is a terrible event.
* * * *
A week’s out-back weather on the Barrier,
where the water famine has been : Sunday, warm
and cloudy; S-unday night, thunder, lightning,
and rain ; Monday, heavy rain ; Tuesday, fine ;
Wednesday, cloudy morning, fine afternoon ;
Thursday, fine; Friday, dust all day; Friday
night, violent dust, thunder and lightning, heavy
rain; Saturday, fine; Sunday, clouds, thick dust
all the afternoon, heavy dust storm in evening,
clear starlight night. The unsolvable problem:
Where does the dust come from ? On Sunday,
while the dust was raging, the larger creeks were
still running and pools of water lay everywhere.
PATIENCE NEARLY EXHAUSTED.
1ST. GENT. : “ Wot was that new bloke sayin' ’bout
yer girl?”
2ND. CENT .: “’E said she waddles liker duck,
an’ looks like an advertisement for a
Zoo. If ’e'd a said much more I’d a
plugged ’im.”
Nemo : He “ Alba,” on Hindus dying
to order (B. 23/7/03). The Kanaka is tarred with
the same brush. Was stopping a few days, once,
at Tooth and Cran’s sugar-plantation, on the
Mary River (Queensland), and was assured by the
overseer that it was no uncommon thing for
Tommy Tanna to take to his bed, foretell his early
decease, and die “on time”; this, too, after
being examined by a doctor, who failed to discover
any reason for death save pure cussedness. The
Australian aborigine has the same faculty, and,
among some tribes, it is only necessary to tell
Bmghi that he has been “ pointed at” (with a dead
man’s bone) to see him wither up and die, in the
full flower of his youth and beauty.
* * * *
“ Caber ” : Can any of your aboriginally
crowd tell me for sure to what length the genus
carpet-snake stretches out ? When meandering
through the Brisbane Museum I saw a sixteen-foot
reptile labelled “ carpet-snake.” Did the Queens-
land naturalists blunder, and should the specimen
have been labelled “rock-snake”?
Australians should see that the Immigrants
Restriction Act is rigidly administered to exclude
the black and tan element of whatever nationality.
In every Victorian town of note, colored gen-
tlemen control the majority of fruit shops and
restaurants, and are rapidly taking up other
lines of business. Their standard of living is
very low, and the hours of labor almost the full
round of the clock. They give big rents for their
premises and make white competition impossible,
and, of course, the landlord, in the interests of
property, gives three loud cheers for this class of
tenant.
* * * *
A letter from “ O ”:
I’m now in Sydney for the first time and I’m goin’
round seein’ the sites and I went over to the aboiters and
fitzroy dock and North Shore and North Shore is the
nicest place and it has nice pictures all over its walls and
places and everywhere and I went to a theatre and they
were playing Midsummer Nights Dream and some of the
men and wimen looked very nice and there was a lot of
them that didn’t look nice. There was a man like the
man at the top of vour Political points page and he had
an ass’s head on him and he was a great fool and I sup-
pose he was a politician and another man had a dorg and
if the man with the dorg was fat instead of about the size
of an old broody hen and had an eyeglass I suppose he
would be a politician too and I’d a thought Titb Bulletin
wrote the play wich seems likely as it’s not much of a
play anyhow and I only read Tub Bulletin because its
the only paper the fool of a jackeroo up at Mungunyah
gets and I borrow it from him and he oughter by better
lilterafure and the Sydney girls are very affable.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Assembly got talking the
other night about residence conditions on way-
out leases. Dr. Ross said he knew of a case in
which husband and wife, holding a lease each
requiring separate residence, built their home on
the boundary, so that the line bisected both the
bedroom and the principal article of furniture in
it. The House guffawed and told the doctor that
somebody had been hanging on to his leg again.
But it is quite likely this scheme was adopted
for all that ; the selector knows the land law is a
fearful and wonderful thing, and he does all sorts
of fearful and wonderful things in the belief that
he is nominally carrying out its provisions.
Dozens of “residences” certainly are built
on boundaries, even if the line doesn’t
run through the bed. Scores of selections are
held by young women, the daughters of selectors,
and in these cases the scheme is quite common.
If, as often happens, a brother and sister have
taken up adjoining selections, each requiring six
months’ residence in the year, either two huts are
built, one on each side of the line, or the two huts
are joined on the boundary, and they profess to
live on one side of the boundary one six months
and on the other side the other six.months. This
works all right where only six months’ residence
is required, and even sometimes where continuous
residence is in the bond, but a cantankerous
inspector is liable to cause trouble. Husbands
and wives can’t manage it as successfully as un-
married couples. There is an awkward legal pre-
sumption that the husband lives where the wife
is; and even if the boundary line bisects the
bedroom, the law says there is no evidence which
half of the bed is Billjim’s half.
* * * »
Jumbuck the squatter and Cocky the
selector were exchanging hot words in the pub. at
Bleed-’em-Dry. J. accused C. of encouraging his
stock to trespass on the well-lined station pad-
docks. “ Oh, if it comes to that, Mr. J,,” said C.,
“your station stock are often on my country!”
“ Ah’ve nae doot about it,” said J.; “an’verra
few of ’em get off it again ! ”
A SPORTING OFFER.
KINDLY SOUL : “So you find times hard, do
you? ”
THE BEAT: " Hard? Hard? Here ” (desper-
ately) “gimme threepence, and see me drop
dead! ”
It was given in evidence in an out-back
N.S.W. court lately that a woman, tbe wife of a
selector, had herself sunk a well 40ft. deep on a
block held by her under miner’s right. She
reckoned well-sinking was easier work than
fencing, of which she had “ done miles.”
“ Revilo ” : Some M'aoriland
rivers teem with fish which the
Maoris are very ingenious in catch-
ing. I once saw a party of natives
fishing on the bar of a river. Two
rows of stout manuka poles were
stuck up about 25ft. apart in the
middle of the channel and when the
tide began to ebb, a long funnel-
shaped net was fastened in the open-
ing, the lower edge pinned firmly to
the bottom, and the top edge
fastened to a bar crossing from one
set of poles to the other. The net
was emptied every quarter-hour by
lifting up the long tapering end and
turning the contents into a canoe.
When the flood-tide commenced to
run strongly the net was simply
turned inside-out and set the other
way. Result of three-quarters of an
hour’s fishing: 58 eels, large numbers
of flounders and sea mullet, 701 b.
weight of pilchard, a few schnapper;
also katawai and hundreds of young
red cod. The river was about 60yds.
wide at the place, but the strip of
water wherein the fish were caught
was only 5 yds. wide.
* * * *
“Inver.”: Consider the cocky’s
dog. An ugly, blue or yellow no-
breed animal that massacres all
crawling and creeping things that
may have designs on fowl-roost or
potato-patch, -relentlessly chews in-
vading “townies” and agents, and
follows the plough all day, with oc-
casional spell-ohs to cool off in an
adjacent dam. Divides his attention
between the horses and the rear
plough-wheel, and generally sheds a
tooth or so in injudicious tussles with
the latter. He revels in water, where-
as collies mostly have a hydrophobic
horror of a wetting, a more than
womanly fear of “electrical disturbances,” and a
cat’s distaste for mud puddles. The collie, in
fact, is a failure on a farm. Its morbid sensi-
tiveness is against it, and it is too severe on stock.
The ideal cocky’s dog does a lot of barking and
running, but never does anything or gets any-
where.
“ Neer-do-Weel ” : I have noticed a
curious custom amongst Queensland bush school-
children —confined to the female children, I
think; at all events, haven’t noticed it among the
boys. My office in a western township was close
to the school, and when the
children were leaving in
lie afternoon I’d often
hear something like the
following : “ Teacher sez
to me, ‘You tyke thet
’ome agyne, Tulip Vera,
an’ do it k’rec’, an’ bring
it agyne ter-morrer; ’ an’
I sez to ’er, I sez, ‘I
shan’t do nothink er the
kind, Miss Hoolan. Yer
a fair caow, an’ yer
alwiz a puttin’on me.’ ”
“Yer didn’t sye nothnik
er the kin, Tulip Vera;
yer not gyme.” “I did,
Constance Meelyer, I
tell yer.” “ Well, strike
yer breast an’ spit, if
yer did, before I’ll be-
lieve yer.” Whereupon
Tulip Vera would strike
herself hard on the chest
and expectorate vigor-
ously, after which Con-
stance Meelyer’s doubts
would vanish, and Tulip
Vera would proceed with
her fiction amidst achorus
of admiring “Ohs!”
There seems to be much
virtue in the spit, for
once when a five-year-old
damsel was called upon
to make oath in manner
aforesaid, her action was
met with a volley of in-
dignant “But yer didn’t
spit.” “I did.” “Yer
never.” “I did, I tell
yer ” ; and so it went on
until it was decided the
lady must perform the cere-
mony again, which she did to
everyone’s satisfaction. I have
seen kiddies running along,
chattering like magpies, and
every now and again one or other
would bob her head, strike her
chest, and spit, to give point to an
argument or to clinch an assertion.
“ Chasselas ” writes :
“ Scallywag ” (Bulletin 27/8/’O3) is very far off the
track in stating that birds rarely meet with an accidental
death. Writer has picked up dozens of quail killed by
striking wire fences ; and wild turkeys and other birds
often strike telegraph wires and are killed. Have seen
quail almost cut in two by the force with which they
struck the wires. Have also seen larks impaled on the
barb used for top wires in country fences.
* * * *
“ Mallee ” : Hungry sharks draw no rigid
“color-line.’’ Writer was once becalmed in a
windjammer off the coast of Sumatra, and we
were shooting at bottles with a rifle, when a shark
appeared, and we started on him ; but the bullets
MR. W. A. ROBYNS, A PROMISING YOUNG
AUSTRALIAN BASSO.
only bucked off his dorsal fin. We hooked him,
and, on investigation, found stowed in It is pantry
most of the black glass from the bottles we’d
smashed. Also, in same waters, harpooned a
boomer that had straightened out our hook, and
the brute sprang half out of the water to meet the
iron.
THE STIRRUP CUP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I am half afraid of the West I ” she said, looking out
where the sun went down
Like a ruddy fire on a mountain spire and the shadows
creeping brown;
And I bent my head as she raised the cup, this girl that I
loved the best,
And just for a moment of time I too was afraid of the
great red West.
It has parted so many lovers, I thought; oh ! the men
that, hopeful and brave,
Have pledged their girls in a stirrup-cup and gone out to
a Western grave !
I had laughed at the danger of drought and flood, but for
the sake of a blue-eyed maid
I turned my eyes from the beckoning range, and I looked
in her face—afraid !
N.S.W.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
THE HAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where Tassy’s pathways Eastward trend,
Through miles of God-forgotten scrub,
Somewhere about Creation’s end,
I chanced to strike a wayback pub.
’Twas twenty miles from Might-Have-Been,
’Twas fifteen miles from God-Knows-Where,
And all the country in between
Was hungry as a rabbit snare.
I hunted up the man in charge ;
Perhaps I waked him from a snooze—
His moral vision wasn’t large,
His horoscope was rimmed with booze.
He’d limejuice cordial in the bar,
And terebene, and schnapps, and rum,
And all the trackers near and c ar
For his chain-lightning used 3 come.
It was the apple of his eye,
A fearsome home-brewed “ Knock-me-down,"
He used to make it on the sly
To Jew the customs folk in town.
But I assured that son of sin,
That keeper of a wayback pub,
’Twas not for rum, or beer, or gin,
My empty being yearned—but grub.
He turned away and scratched his head,
And clicked his tongue within his cheek,
“ Can’t give yer any duff,” he said ;
“ Blokes eat me out of duff last week !"
“ But there’s some pig I cured myself,
You’ll find it’s not too bloomin’ bad 1
And there’s a bottle on the shelf,
I’ll warrant it won’t leave you sad.”
I gazed upon the trusty ham,
1 viewed the late lamented hog.
“ Those marks y®u see upon the scram,”
He said, “ were made by Thompson’s dog.”
TAS.
MAGNET.


Last week I took to my bed
With a cough and a cold in my head,
My friends were all sighing, as they thought I
was dying,
But I banished all fears when I said :
“ Bad cold I may have for sure,
But to die—that I will not endure ;
J ust send for the stuff that will cure any cough,
Some Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”*
WOLFE’S
THE REAL
ORIGINAL
SCHNAPPS.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
P.E.D.: That joke had its old age pension before you
started to read The Bulletin Ray de B. : Alas ! you,
too, have gone Phil-Maying. Strive after originality...,
E.R.: Cabbage joke declined E.E.: “Private still”
joke old as the hills. Drawing dreadful M.E.1.:
Goose” most hopeless picture of the
year Borer: Will print “Billy.” Elderslie : Hardly
suitable A.M.: Drawing and gag hopeless H. Rose :
Not good enough, but, considering the circumstances,
very promising Jumbuck : Joke hardly up to mark—
B. Fad; One or two may do as suggestions J.H.C. :
Very lamentable Klimo: Collection of very inferior
ideas Downward : Gave us a sinking feeling in the waist-
coat region Mervyn : Hardly suitable Jum: Not a
hope among them.
The soothing and healing properties of Cham-
berlain’s Pain Balm makes it a favourite remedy
for cuts, bruises, burns, and scalds. It will heal
such injuries in one-third the time any other treat-
ment would require. Sold everywhere at Is. 6d.*
A Temora (N.S.W.) item from the daily
press :
The manager of the Bank of New South Wales has
handed £6 6s. to the treasurer of the hospital, being the
contents of a charity box kept on the hank counter.
Most of the money, he states, has been contributed by
old age pensioners, who rarely draw their pensions with-
out placing a coin in the box.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
£5 ss. RINGS.
The 5 Diamonds are Gems of
Beauty.
They are exquisite, white,
lustrous stones.
They are double cut, and of
special brilliancy.
Choice Whits Pearls,
42/-
“ Fx. & R.”
5-stone Diamond
Half-Hoop,
£5 ss.
A Marvel of Value.
Engagement Rings*
Dress Rings.
They are set in our workshops in Hunter-street. They have ISct. Gold Settings of extra finish. .
They are made by imported Artists (Ring). They are sold for Cash, and at London s Lowest Prices.
We stock NO inferior Diamonds. Those bought from us always afford pleasure, because they compare
favorably with any stones put against them.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St.
Hobart has a
boss bailiff who
was born in Kil-
kenny, of cat
fame. But it was
a dog that was in
question this
time. Smith-
Brown had been
up before the
court on judg-
ment summons,
but never had
anything to make
an order for in-
stalments on. But
one day there was
an advertisement
in one of the local
papers announc-
ing that Smith-
Brown had a
lovely bulldog for
sale, whose pedi-
gree went into
several in dies.
Thebossread this
out to his minions
and urged them
to. go and seize
this valuable dog
in the suit Jones
v. Smith-Brown.
Well, Murphy
said he had to
auction off an ould
cow seized in the
case of Maguire v.
Hooligan, and he
couldn’t take up.',
the job; and Mal-
oney said he had
been vaccinated
a week ago and
wouldn’t be fit for
heavy work for a
day'or two. But,
next day, the boss
got a post-card
from the judg-
ment debtor, say-
ing he could have
the dog if he came
out to Smith-Brown’s any night between 11 and
12. That seemed a fair offer, but Murphy and
Maloney agreed it wasn’t “bonna fyde,”and so
things stand.
* * * *
Croydon (Queensland) is a good deal
perplexed over the finding of a large live alligator
down one of its wet shafts. The theory is that
the animal walked 150 miles from the Norman
River and threw itself down the mine as a protest
against Socialistic legislation, but everything is
uncertain, save that the ’dile was killed by having
a rock dropped on it.
THE OTHER MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I know a lot of fellows who
Seem never to be done ;
But talk away, by night and day,
Of battles they have won.
“ The brute weighed fully half-a-ton
And knew a flaming lot
About the game, and just at first
He made things very hot.
But when I’d finished up with him,
All there was left to show
Was just a heap of rags and bones
His mother wouldn’t know.”
I’ve heard that yarn a score of time 3;
I’ll hear it scores again ;
But what I want to know is this,
Where are the other men ?
What does become of all the chaps
Who get knocked out in fight ?
I’m looking out, but none of them
Has ever crossed my sight.
And then there is another crowd—
They mostly run to curls—
Who pitch a heap of stories steep
About their luck with girls.
And not with girls alone, for if
The half they say is true,
Their luck holds good with wives as well,
And even widows, too.
They never met a woman yet
Who could resist their charms ;
But maid and matron, young and old,
Just rushed into their arms.
Well, here’s a question I would ask —
Assuming that is so—
The folk who owned these women first,
Wherever did they go ?
The husbands, of those charming wives—
The chaps who were cut out—
I’ve never seen them, thouerh they must
Be somewhere round about.
There’s still a crowd to be described—•
You’ve met this sort, of course ;
When two or three, or more, maybe,
Got started talking horse.
They’d tackle anything at all
That ever wore a hide,
And don’t know what a fall is like,
For, bli’me they can ride.
How they poke fun at anyone
Who speaks of outlaws then.
“ Itats! Talk like that’s the sort for kids,
But we are blooming men.”
Now here again my voice I raise,
And ask if you have known
A rider who’d admit that he
Had even once been thrown ?
I often meet the chaps who stick,
But what I want to know
Is where on earth, or t’other place,
Do all the duffers go ?
STEP.
LONG YEARS, GREY YEARS AGO.
—From a painting by A. J. Fisher, at Royal Art Society Exhibition.]
[For The Bulletin.]
YEA . . . and thou speakest, too,
“ Making my pulses leap, my spirits glow,
As when we two were youth and maid,
Long years, grey years ago.
0, Vision Beautiful!
Thou earnest, and thy lips are redj
Thou sayest that thou lov’st me still,
And I am comforted.
What false old tale was this ?
They said, that Death was foul to see ;
But Death hath brought me back my Love,
And sweet is Death to me.
RODERIC QUINN.
N.S.W. Art Society’s Show.
Most persons, especially those who have covered
their Household walls with gunny-sacks, de-
corated with dragons, storks and arabesques,
know that a love of Art is the true essence of the
Higher Life, It is love of Art that sends Sydney-
siders to view the last agony of the Art Society.
It is love of Art and other various emotions or
reasons that drive the artists to paint or perpetrate
pictures.
Some 365 pictures—oils, water-colors and black-
and-white—are hung in this, the 24th annual spasm
of the N.S.W. Art Society. Only the hanging
committee knows how many are sentenced to
banishment, and only the banished know how
unjust are the judges. There ought to be. a fresh
deal of the pack in the manner of judging the
Society’s September garnering. For the Tree
Picture (there are hundreds of specimens in
the exhibition) we ought to have the Con-
servator of Forests as judge. For the Harvest
Scene with its stacked wheat and standing
lucerne a produce merchant. For the Farm Scene,
with sheep and kine in the clover, or dying out
back in the dust-pan districts, a meat-salesman.
For the many flower pieces a florist, who skewers
table decorations and buttonholes. For the good
old barn of our youth a jerry-builder. For views
of Old Sydney, the Owe’Sullivan. For the nude,
a Turkish bath attendant. For the allegorical or
imaginative picture, as for instance Sid. Long’s in-
scrutable Fleur-de-Lys—the Omniscient Himself.
The General Public is easily pleased in its Art
menu. Give it a blue sky, a sea dipped out of the
same blend, a patch of sunlight with cool shade
under the spreading tree, and a line of misty
purple mountains in the distance, and no matter
how crude, the. G.P. will be very pleased, and
possibly say that the picture “shows great
artistic restraint.”
Those who forge and utter such sentiments pos-
sibly think that the painter’s self-restraint is
shown by his not seating a pair of lovers under
the tree. The bright colors stimulate the eye,
their harmonization into a landscape is quite a
secondary matter.
This Spring’s Exhibition is very youthful
in coloring. The intending exhibitor mostly
begins to work in August when Nature’s
sap is up, so there’s a glory on the leaf
and a rapture in the flower. The exhibitor, espe-
cially the female, is often a poetical creature
given to painting up to tag 3 of alliterative verse or
phrases, so we have “Where the Quiet Colored
End of Evening Smiles,” “ The Grey Robe of the
Rain,” “Gre3 T Grief” (in opposition to Swinburne’s
“Green Pleasure”), “Long Years —Grey Years
Ago.” The tenderly-sad and the softly-sombre
appeal to the pure white souls who paint pictures
for the Art Society’s show.
President Lister-Lister’s huge picture, “ Linger-
ing Summer,” occupies more than it deserves of
wall space. It is a riot of color—orange, gold,
rose and green. The scene, which is from a bit of
the Coolangatta estate, looks in its juiciness and
mellowness and greenness quite English, you
know. All the Listerian bag of colors are having
their annual outing. Piguenit’s “Thy Clouds
Drop Fatness” is a picture that demands that you
halt before it in admiration. A great grassy plain
covered with cattle—gazing, meditating, dozing,
and all shadowed by the dusk of racing clouds,
full to bursting with their weight of rain. In his
“ Sunset on Lane Cove River ” Piguenit proves
his possession of romantic feeling—a fine thing
to be able to use on the end of your hog
and camel hair brushes. Sid Long, after he
had finished his allegorical picture, “Fleur-
de-Lys,” must have felt that he had failed to
bring “before men’s minds the image of the
thing his heart was filled with.” “Fleur-de-Lys ”
shows a commonplace, half - undressed young
woman with apricot-colored hair, who is seated on
the ground against a background of iris lilies.
Her figure won’t bear publication, and the o iginal,
if there was such, of one of the starved children
who keep her company, must have been sketched
in the surgical ward of the Children’s Hospital.
The arms of the other infant resemble the fore
legs of a foal. But Long has several portraits that
do him great credit. That of Mr. John Perry,
Minister for Public Instruction, is a live portrait!
Sitter’s weary, humorous, and I-wouldn’t-believe-
your-affidavit expression is capitally brought out.
Julian Ashton, who also shows some attractive
views of old Sydney, has a portrait of Henry
Gullett, a gentleman with shining massaged
cheeks, good-natured black eyes and very sunburnt
hands. Fred Leist’s principal canvas, “Saplings,”
shows a girl’s figure standing, one hand clasped
behind her head, and through the transparent
drapery of tender baby-gum-leaf red, the fine
limbs are seen, but the damsel has not the appeal-
ing slenderness of sapling youth. On either side
of her is a growth of gum saplings, harmonising
with her drapery.
The delicate treatment of shallow water, that
soft tint of green sometimes seen in evening skies
and water-flowers, must have “fetched” the
National Gallery Trustees when they bought
Mann’s modest canvas, “Terrigal Haven,” for 30
guineas. The unruffled crescent looks fit to
harbor fairy craft. A. J. Fischer’s “ Long Years,
Grey Years Ago’’big picture (it carries a verse
by Roderic Quinn) is an old man to whom is
appearing the spectre of the sweetheart of his
youth. The joy, fear and amazement of the old,
hairy lover as he half raises himself from his bunk
to greet the vision is very pathetic, and there’s a
palette full of pathos painted into the hands
which seem at once to grope and to caress. As
for the spook, she is a green spook with blue. aura
and red palms. She must have been slaying
someone. “A Sou’-Easter” looks as if Henri
Tebbitt had painted it from the wreck of the
Dunbar place. Green and white seas batter a
rocky cliff, and wind-driven waters make yeasty
spray, and spume and froth and climb ; it is the
best sea-scape in the Ex. and makes a bad sailor
seasick. A lot of tame sea-pieces at sunset
hour are in the Exhibition. Placid bays, rippled
harbor inlets, pretty coves—but there is no
magic in the seas, no languor in the sunsets
that. color them. “Sensibility” and “per-
ceptivity” are good words, although they
have a Jane-Austen-novel sound, but they are
hereby tendered to Howard Ashton, to one H. J.
Recknell and C. H. Hunt as properties to be dis-
covered in their landscapes. Howard Ashton,
whose water-scape is a delightful picture, deserves
something more than Jane Austen phrases, and
Recknell’s “Haunts of Memory” stops in be-
holder’s memory until the day after to-morrow.
Among Dattilo Rubbo’s efforts are a specially
good deed and an unforgivable mortal sin. First
is the “Connoisseur” and shows an old anti-
quarian, a Dickens-like creation, with long coat
and knee breeches, looking through a magnifying-
glass at what might be a crucifix or a statuette. By
his expression he has a real “find.” The second,
“ The Odalisque,” is a bold-faced hussy with dis-
torted figure and limbs,, lying on a couch. No
Sultan would give twopence for her in the flesh —
much less 30 guineas for her portrait. Mr. Rubbo
had better give her away with a packet of nerve-
food and a pennorth of speckled apples. Garlick
supplies a strong and faithful study of a group
of blue kangaroos lying down. So that’s how a
’roo’s hind legs look when telescoped out! If the
’roo studied appearances he would never be seen
in repose, never be caught napping.
Young ladies who paint daffodils should never
mass them. The flower is such a pure Greek that
one or two of her is sufficient, and she should stand
upright on her own stem, not lie down, flattening
her adorable corolla. Amongst the men who can
paint a smiling woman—the real, spontaneous,
mirthful smile—is Moore-Jones. Two “smiling”
pictures bear witness. Fred. Leist’s “White
Boa ” (pastel) is worn over a pale-green blouse,
and with a big black hat. The narrow-shouldered
girl has an uncommon, pretty little wedge of face
obtrusively framed in black hair. Mr. Leist,
whose portraiture improves by leaps and bounds,
has treated her well; but number 227, the portrait
of a girl with fine, brown eyes and hair, is his best
effort. Norman Lindsay dominates the Black and
White section with his “ Scoffers ” and “ Curate’s
Little Wife” —both clever and wickod.
A. CONOR-O'BRIEN.
“WHY DON’T MEN GO TO CHURCH?”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sabbath bells again are calling,
Why is it we do not respond V
The shades of night about us falling,
We stand aloof in sheer despond ;
We hold not less the good, the holy,
We seek the truth in liberty ;
The manlier love that lovest wholly
The broader, kindlier, charity.
Like lonely birds that cry forsaken,
The bells are ringing faint and few ;
What mingled memories they awaken,
Of old loves still reproaching new,
And hates that bigots blindly cherish—
There may be gain in seeming loss,
But flowers there are that trampled, perish,
And lie around a Christless cross.
Shall ancient wrongs our free hearts sever,
And close to us the open way ?
Life hath its goal, and onwards ever
It moves, and must, or pass away ;
The hallowed altars of our fathers,
May waste, and crumble in the dust,
From out the heap of dross Time gathers
The gold, and holdeth it in trust.
Our virgin pastures tell no story
Of war that steeped its feet in blood,
The commonweal is all our glory—
For Christ’s sake have we much withstood ?
Faith falters ; still the vain strife rages,
And rival bells inspire our song ;
The end liss hidden in the ages
We only see, and feel the wrong.
We shrink and dread the first cold starkness
The solitary nevermore,
Dim lights there are that break the darkness,
And yet shall pierce it to the core.
Though faint, the Sabbath bells are ringing
And God’s will surely shall be done,
In strange ways ever nearer bringing,
The many whom He counts as one.
ANDREW SARD.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on M 9. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned un less stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Joram : Singularly unequal. Two of the stanzas
stand out so brightly from the other 12 as to give sus-
picion of a crib E.L. : Just a glimmer of merit....
J.D. (Tas.) : Learn to spell. It doesn’t absolutely follow
that a man who can’t spell simple words can’t write, but
the odds are against him Chas. B.: Wales is not repre-
sented on the Royal Standard. The three lions (origin-
ally leopards) of England appear in both the Ist and 4th
quartess. As for the badges on the florin, the leek does
not appear with the rose, thistle, and shamrock, because
that vegetable has never been taken seriously as the
emblem of Wales Coo E. : Verse not very bad, but
“ Sunset ” a very hackneyed theme Vet: Will print...
J.A.R. : “Telephone” rather a used-up subject....
Sydney Pauli : Crude and irregular F.C.B. :No vigor
or spirit in the telling Frank O’R. : The central idea
is hoary Epsilon : Obscure —not profound... .Durdles:
Spoilt by the clumsy and involved style W.A.O. :
Clever, but belated Arbaces: Too explosive and
shrieky. With less vehemence you should make a mark.
E.J.D. : “ Prelude and Coda” too trivial Swingle-
bar : Rather dull G.L.: “Overheard” declined
Rei Panes: “Scent of the Wool” a too-hackneyed
subject. The number of poets whose thoughts are
carried back to the old station is terrible. Will
print “Sylvia." Byrnong : Reads realistically, but
hasn’t point or weight enough M.E.C. : With
brighter, terser handling might have been readable.
....Argo: It is a very common blunder, due to
confusion between the terms “ contradictory ” and
“paradoxical.” We rightly say “contradictory as it
seems ” ; but, since “ paradoxical ” means only appar-
ently contradictory, we should say “ paradoxical as it is”
—not “seems.” V. de M. : More briefly treated it
might have had achance Thurla : Will print “ Chang”
as an aboriginally J.A. : Body-snatching yarn an old
Irish tale B.E.N. : Puzzled to know which was worst.
Finally decided that they were all the worst! Ruis :
They have some merit, but not enough Jumbo:
Appropriately elephantine... O.: Reads like a
cross between Shelley and Kipling... .W. B.A. : Very
correct in form, but empty of all life and movement....
Dorian : Your touch isn’t deft enough for such a ticklish
subject Borax: “Why is Herbert Spencer so neg-
lected ? ” Probably on account of his stodgy manner
S.P.A.R. : Declined Isabelle: Ideas and figures too
familiar R.F.G.: You were a week late with your
poem, Irvine’s charger having been treated of already.
It’s a very hard thing to be up-to-time in a State where
the locomotive is still suffering from Bent Alma S.:
Pretty album verse Disgne : That man who tries to
get The Bulletin on to the Hobart Library table is no
friend of ours The Hack : Thanks; the brick is about the
same weight, anyhow L.M. : There is no clumsier way
of libelling an individual than to start “ a certain indivi-
dual,” and then to make the identity quite clear and utter
some slanderous statement. A jury interprets that as
cowardly malice Bandar: “ Star Worlds ” declined....
M. Culp'in : On the whole prefer the scheme we have long
advocated—of requiring the banks to hold 40 or 50 per
cent, of their cash reserves in State notes, as practised in
Canada Rosa D. : “Greeting” won’tscan.. ..D.H.R. :
“ Sold ”is very thin'and weak H. Gibson : Deciphered
it with difficulty and found it hardly worth the trouble.
Ruff Rydor: Hasn’t style or vigor enough L.W. :
Agree that the Slimes is “ a cur of a paper,” but don’t
see the necessity of amplifying that obvious fact in 320
words Emily W.: Fairly well written, but travels on
conventional lines. You’d probably do better work if you
would strike out for yourself D.G. : Too spasmodic
and patchy Dusty M. : You have concealed your
meaning (if you have any) with great skill F.0’0.:
Some descriptive power, but spelling and syntax badly in
need of repairs Argand : Rather bright in manner,
but thin and unconvincing in story. Try a simpler and
stronger “situation.”.. .Treble D. : You haven’t improved
it worth a cent.. .W.F.W. : The style isn’t able to support
such a ponderous subject Otto W. :We couldn’t make
any use of it Ossian : Not enough in it W.T.S. :
Both ndtions have the three colors, horizontally; the
Du,tch flag (from top) being red, white, blue, and the
Russian (mercantile) white, blue, red. It was a Bulletin
man who first pointed out that Mafeking lunatics were
actually flaunting Dutch colors about Sydney
0 E.H. : “Orchard” is just mildly-pretty verse about
nothing much.. ..C.E.C. : No g00d... .Ilex : “Jacky”
has no redeeming features to set against its gruesome-
ness. ... A.F. W. : Three short wails in verse well enough
but we ask you, as a Christian, how can we keep
the paper cheerful ‘if we print such a lot of wail?
M.O.K. (M.L.): We often pay for verses before publi-
cation if for any reason publication is likely to be post-
poned for some time Roma: Too much thinned-out
with unnecessary detail B. Mol.: Too slight and ordi-
nary Burr: The vague and elusive style carried too
far.. ..Rita S.: Has too much superfluous matter. You
might’try it again, and begin right with the hypnotising.
C.E.’H.: Constitutionally erotic Fosco : “Reefers”
the better of the two, but not good enough Jemmy
J. : A yarn professing to be a record of facts should not
violate probability so flagrantly F. Mac. : Waste of
time and ink Unsuitable: A.E.S., E.V.8., W.O.T.


A deputation of parsons tells the Victorian
(Minister that State school girls at Ballarat
are ruining their constitutions through*
smoking, and asks for the suppression <*i.
the pernicious eight-a-penny cignretfe.
Mr. Lync h contemplating a de-
parture from the beaten track of Customs
administration. Tho Minister is inclined
to appoint a board to consist of a repro-
- sontativo of the Chambers of Commorco,
the Chambers of Manufactures, and a
senior Customs official, to adviso him on
intricate questions affecting the interpre-
tation of the tariff."— Argus.
g'ho
w
Ce \ WouljJn T mimic
\Ajobj-»ke tfjtffT”'
0k,,..
>n»ro? donee Vm* (
klm * Umn «» M«fb.
monument ” ' bave „
ts <eP&C
„y <««%v
o* a >- &
g >?■ /
Aw
.* C o /tr
* V -*s«o s*-^
4?' Q P-& ■$ <?
y #v/4?/
-
vK' l *4 > #
o i*«<®v
<>3cV
'-° V C \o c
t>^
Dawvid (fiercely).—“To be sure, honesty's
the best policy, but, confound it, mon.
wo dinna always be wantin' the best
of everything'"
O
if
<> »v
. ,
J$ a %o e> /
? O s <® /
'irC
"Inc noo^— J* $ dl) vkr>j well
_ lo sdNj /Australid l*
but WndV crdn c3i do With a
fdt|» j.ike ikdF!^ 1
Vic.—“ Como, come, Ned, whon nro you
going to put the finishing touches to
Unit new Constjtution of mine ? Yoti
Kings arc too dashed independent.”
THINGS VICTORIAN AND GENERAL.


Governor.,. Rawson announced aT3
banquet, t'other day, that "he ob-
jected to being buttered.” And it is
unpleasant now that the weather it?
warming up.
ft A
Jijw
a?
ml/
X&v '-V*.
e (Nv
\. V
&
&*?s£>
f 'J'
&£V 4/
“ Tho re-
tirement of
Mr. M‘Mil-
/lan from politics cannot be
regarded with satisfaction.
He never asked: ‘ What course
will beet advance my interests
a£ a politician 1 ’ —but always :
‘ What will advance my in-
terests as a draper V ’’ —An
Argos extract ( rounded off).
n ‘l\
\ rtist '■
° ur fu '
Stay that do
t'nevJ^L^- —
PHILP’S SACK.
&ATMAN ! “ I didn’t mind him taxing the ;
woman who cleans out the office ; but
the brute wanted to tax me! x
you We
(K°)
Confine A de^ileT
Qn frolecfron
| U.S>A. administers its anti-contracl-
I labor law rigidly ; lately an eloquent
parson, under contract to preach in
the States, was stopped at the Customs
and sent back.
A LOOK ROUND.


A. SAUNDERS, SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
A. OAUJN-UJillD.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVEES,
Full Jewelled, |-plate,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £4los.
In Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s,
10 guineas, £l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 3. 4,5, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Three-bar Gold Buckle BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two-bar Floral, with Diamond, Blue, or Red
Stone, BROOCH, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Twist Bar, with Bow and Heart, Gold BROOCH,
bs 6d ; with Amethyst Heart, 7s 6d.
A. SATJNDKRS.
Carved Gold BROOCH, with Opal Centre, 20s.
V.
■*<
Ladies’ Curb CTIATN',
Gold Snap Padlock, 255,
30s, 85s, £2 ss, £3 ; 15ct.,
£2los, £3, £4, £4 10s, £5,
£6, £7 10s, £B, £lO.
10s extra
for
Key Padlock.
All With Safety Chain.
Diamond BRACELET, 15 carat Gold, Three Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
with Safety Chain, £5 ; Diamond and Two Rubies, £4.
Peace-offering Bird l>ub BBOOCHES, with Enamelled Olive Leaf,
17s 6d ; 15 carat Gold. 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Two Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut,
BROOCH, £2 ; with Ruby, 3os
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Pretty Gold BRACELET, Diamond, Red, or Blue Stones,
£2 10s ; 15ct. Gold, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS. All the Styles. Prices according
to width. 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ; 15ct. Gold,
£3, £4, £5, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Band Name BRACELET, in Three Sizes, 255, 30s, as
above, and 40s wider ; Isct Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Diamond Cut Amethyst
BROOCH, 20s.
ea
A. SAUNDERS.
L&rg-e P’"ze Three Bar Amethyst BROOCH,
25s ; 15 Carat Gold, Amethyst, 455.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Pearl Set Twin Love Birds,
BROOCH, Red Stone Centre, 17s 6d.
©s3a
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold Two Bar Opal and Four Diamond
BROOCH, £2 10s. Very Effective.
Sil-
ver,
£2.
Gold
M.
A. SAUNDERS.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed. Silver Hunting Keyless,
255, 30s, £2. £2 10s, £3. Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4,
£5; Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
all guaranteed.
FULL SIZE
A. SAUNDERS.
Three Bar Solid Gold Pearl and Red Stone Scroll
BROOCH, 21a.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Battleaxe and Shield BROOCH, Very Neat and
Effective, Pearl Bet with Gem, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mounted Tusk BROOCH, Chain and Bell,
15s Bd. Very Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE, ENGLISH
LEVERS, Eull Cap, TJanij Finished. Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with
PuroSilver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £3
10s.
Extra Quality, with Chrouometer Balance,
£4los, £5, £.5 10s”,' £6, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Key,
£3 los.
Keyless,
£5.
No
Ad-
vance.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong Reliable WATERBTTRY WATCHES.
Long Wind, 8s 6(1 ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model. G., 13s 6d ;
Extra Quality, J-plate, 18s 6d and £l.
Silver, 85s ;
Gold, £2 15s.
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
Free-
trade
Prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cass,
dust and water tight, 20s.
Solid Silver, 35s ; Double Case, £2.
A Written Guarantee Given with Each
Watch.
20s,
20b.
Black or
Nickel,
£3 10s,
/i \\l
wjgmiiis
“-UI
"%fi
K3/<
v c,o
“FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS. *
Fly-tack only. In Solid Nickel or Black,
Extra Quality, £2,- £2 10s ; same as above, £3 10s ;
Split Seconds, £3 tOs. Bure Solid Silver, as above.
£5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25,
and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TR¥ ONE.
Silver,
£5-
Gold
Cased,
M 4s.
Solid
Silver,
<£2 10s
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
Weare Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Sliver Hunting Cases, Extra
Duality Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
3,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Goal BAND
17s 6d ;
Three Opals, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold. 30s ;
Three Opals, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Pure Double
Cut Diamond,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Three Red
or Blue Stones,
Double Cut, 255.
m
m
A. SAUNDERS
Band BINGS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d,
15s ; 15et. Gold,
20s, 25s ; 18et. Gold 255,
30s, 355, £2.
Any name~free.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Double
Cut Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£3 10s £4, £4 10s ;
Five Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Sold, Pure
Double Cut Diamond,
Pui e Rubies
or Sapphire, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, Two Hearts,
Diamond and Ruby,
35s ;
Two Diamonds, £2 ss.
Latest Style.
Gold Mizpah
CHARM,
4s 6d.
Pearl Cluster
Heart, 15s 6d ;
with Four
.Diamond, Ruby,
or Sapphire, 255.
15ct. Gold Heart,
Double Cut
Diamond. 30s, 40s :
Ruby or Sanphire,
255.
Gold Envelope
CHARM. 12s 6d ;
name free, with slip
inside, 15s 6d.
Good Friendship
Gold CHARM,
10s 6d ; with Erin-
Go-Bragh, 10s 6d.
Gold Amethysc and
Pearl Heart
CHARM. 10s 6d ;
larger, 15s and 20s.
Gent.’s Solid Gold Front STUDS, Ss 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d each.
a. SAUNDERS.
Hand-Made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9ct. Sjlid Gold, 5s 6d. 7s 6d, 10s (Jd each ;
15et. Gold, 15s ; Extra Heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold,-20s;
Extra Heavy, 30s, 355, 40s.
Quality of Gold and Finish First Class.
A. SAUNDERS.
Signet Plain. RING, Dot. Gol
20s, 255; 15ct. Gold, 30s, 35s
18ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Haud-Made Solid Gold MUFFS,
9ct. Solid Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4 ;
15ct. Gold, £4 10s. £5. £6, £6 10s,
to £lO. Price According to
Thickness and Quality of Gold.
Photo Pendants
New Gold Photo. CHARMS,
9 ct. 10s 6d, 15s, 20s ;
15ct.,1556d, 255, 30s, 40s.
Gent's 9ct. Solid Gold Amethyst
RING, 25s ;
loot. Solid Gold, £2, £2 10s.
9ct. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
30s ; Isct. Gold, £2 10s,
Extra Strong.
9ct. Gold Heart t INKS, 12s
6d ; 15ot. Gold, 255.
Beautifully Chased 9ct. Gold
Large Size Sleeve LINKS.
2*2s 6d; Plain, 21s; or with
initials nicely chased, 22s 6d ;
loot. Gold £2;
Silver, 4s 6d.
18ct. Gold Buckle, Diamond
and Two Rubies or
Sapphites, £2 10s ;
Three Diamonds, £4.
Hill
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Diamond Sparks
and Red Stone,
15ct. Gold, 30s.
HE
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
Four Diamonds,
with Three Rubies,
Sapphires, or Opals,
£3 10s, £4 10s, £5, £6.
Price to Size of
Diamonds.
mi
18ct. Solid Gold
Two Hearts,
Upals, Three Pure
Double Cut
Diamonds, £4los.
Band RINGS,
with Name,
Oct. Solid Gold,
12s 6d, 15s;
loot. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
ISct. Gold, 255, 80s,
355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Half Hoop,
Rive Double Cut
Diamonds, RING, £5 ;
Larger Diamonds,
£6, £7 10s, £B. £lO,
£lO, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold, Pearls and
Turquoise, 15s ;
Other Styles, 20s.
on®
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Diamond and Two
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 10s :
Three Diamonds, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Double
Buckle, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s;
‘suaaNnvs 'v
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 GEORGE-STREET
/(NEARLY OPPOSITE^
Vrailway station;?
SYDNEY.


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a "ositive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
A. J. Knowles, one of the founders of the
Canada bicycle trade, and the man who brought the Red
Bird bike to Australia and made a big name in the Aus-
tralian cycling business, turned all the horses out of
Tattersall’s bazaar, Sydney, the other day. Then he flung
out the nose-bags, and rugs, and chaff-cutters and the rest,
and plunked in £12,000 worth of motor-cycles, pleasure
automobiles, motor-touring carriages, and motor-goods-
trucks. Knowles, who taught Australia that the way to
run fast is to do it on a bicycle, has now undertaken to
teach Australia that the way to go driving is to do it in a
motor-car, a vehicle which never wants horses, and which
neither shies, bolts, nor runs away when left standing
and not hitched. Knowles has opened stores in
Sydney and Melbourne, and he will shortly open in
Adelaide, Brisbane, and Westralia. Also Maoriland will
have the Knowles Motbr Co. Ltd. Already there is a
motor’bus plying between Napier and Taradale (M.L.).
Pat, the driver, reports that it goes “ like a streak.” The
fact about the ’bus motor is that it costs from 40 to 75
per cent, less than the horse ’bus for working. The motor
has been adopted by Europe and America for all kinds of
service where horses were formerly employed—delivery
carts, furniture waggons, heavy waggons, &c., &c. ; and
the extent of the trade can be gauged from the fact that
France sent 3,000,000 francs’ worth of pleasure auto-
mobiles to England last season, while in the past three
years one American manufactory has sold 22,000 motor
pleasure carriages.*
In response to the appeal to return Boer
Bibles, one of those articles was given up last week
to the Queensland authorities. Said Bible was
modestly wrapped in a brown bag, and the person
returning it did not give his name. The honesty
of the farm-burner ! He returns the one thing he
can’t pawn. No Boer whiskers or teeth have yet
been handed back.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
,H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage"
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
Debility Ended.
Bile Beans Again Pbominent.
“Your Bile Beans have proved a valuable
remedy in iny household,” says Mrs. E. J. Ramus
of 1 Arundle-street, Forest Lodge, Sydney. “I
am sometimes troubled with debility, especially
during the hot weather, and when I feel done up
with a tired, listless feeling, I take a Bean or two,
with beneficial results. As a gentle purgative
they are all that can be desired, and leave no evil
after-effects whatever. My son and daughter also
take Bile Beans, with like beneficial results, and
from an all-round experience I can safely say that
Bile Beans are unequalled for poor appetite
sleeplessness, and that “out of-sorts ” feeling so
prevalent during the present season.” If you are
feeling “run-down” or “out-of-sorts,” take a
lesson from this lady’s experience and tone up the
system to meet the severe tax imposed by the
changeable Spring weather. Bile Beans will be
found a speedy and permanent cure for biliousness,
headache, indigestion, constipation, piles, debility’
female weaknesses, nervousness, bad blood’
pimples and all skin eruptions, bad breath’,
anaemia, loss of appetite, weakness after influenza’
Spring ailments, and,_ in fact, all ailments that
owe their origin to a disordered liver. Bile Beans
are obtainable from all medicine vendors, price
Is. lid. or 2s. 9d. large box, (contains three times
the Is. size.)*
The Canadian Government finds it necessary to
increase its issue of paper money from rather over £4,000,000
to over £6,000,000 in order to meet the public demand.
In Canada the banks issue their own notes as they do
here--if there were no private note issues the Govern-
ment note would probably take the place of the banks’
paper, and, in that case, the Government note issue
would probably run to about £12,000,000. The Dominion
note issue is based almost entirely on that law which
requires the banks to hold 40 per cent, of their cash
reserves in Government paper money. The Government
will hold £1,500,000 in gold in order to meet any notes that
may be presented—the other £4,500,000 will be a perpetual
loan to the State, without interest, and without reducing
the available currency. This is the system, the adoption of
which in Australia would furnish the means to acquire a
Federal territory and build a capital; after which the
revenue from that territory would be available for the
steady reduction of the public debt without levying a
penny of taxation upon the people. The present system
of keeping £20,000,000 of coin (representing a loss of
) nearly £BOO,OOO a year in interest) lying in the Australian
banks is a ruinous follv.
* * » *
The Economic Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne):
Business Loss on Total Re-
Loss. Property. Loss. serves.
June, 1895 £4786
„ 1896 .. £29 £746 £775 4011
„ 1897 .. 135 2044 2179 1832
£lOOO Capital written off and carried to Reserves .. 2832
June, 1898 .. 77 849 926 1906
Profit.
„ 1899 .. 136 145 9 1897
„ 1900 .. 79 956 877 1020
Deficit.
„ 1901 .. 335 2184 1849 829
„ 1902 .. 1045 2020 975 1804
» 1903 .. 833 1248 415 2219
The position is better than it looks from the foregoing.
f.T'. t ,!?, e . r ff ood Progress has been made in getting rid of
liabilities to the public (deposits, overdraft, &c.); the
total indebtedness at the end of the last few years has
been as follows
1897 . .. £23,542
1898 .. .. 22,822
1899 .. .. 22,380
1900 .. .. 20,779
1901 .. £16,356
1902 .. .. 12,374
1903 .. .. 9,142
á
ihus thc society has, during the past year, reduced its
h bilities to the public by £3232, and has lost only £415
shnn B iH £ i Plta ki ln i doin g. so - If it 1 can keep on like that it
should be able to set nd of the rest of its old troubles at a
f Un< -' er , 1200 of ca Pital ; and on paper it has still
£4O 42i of capital intact. Certainly that capital is repre-
n™t ed “ alnl J’ Properties on band, now taken in at
, !hil a UeS ’ Btl - ’ even so ’ as those Properties, at those
\ alues, are earning very nearly 4 per cent., the position
is not so bad, for a Melbourne building society. In fact
the sw'hnlH be encouraging enough to persuade
n h - lders mt< ? P ufctln g «P more capital and taking
up new business again. "
.** * *
Victoria s boss bc_m-day suburban railway line
?n7ts C K9 oWn rn gh -!’ was frora Cobul 'ff to Somerton!
In its last 12 months it earned £474 ; working expenses
on I lyTs Bd. i„ £ the 3 £ and intereBt Tb «« Earned
Hawken’s Bills of Sale Amendment Bill, malting
of “household f° nSe f nt ° f busband and wife to a mortgage
of household furniture, was received with astonishing
complacence in N.S.W. Legislative Council. Not one
property wedge. “ tUn e " d ° f a Sooialistic antb
* * ■* *
Eastern Extension Cable Co. in 30 years on a
capital of £1,525,000, has made £6.493,233 y net profits
Charging Australia. 9s. 4d. per cable word originally it
&to Ce 3fp e e r a w C^. Cable Was talked 0f - its rate
* * » *
The niggardliness of the Victorian metropolitan
St e Kndai B ndlt nC,pal ho .f ital ! The wealthy suburbs of
bt. Hilda and Kew contributed last year £l6O and £54 Bs.
respectively. The contributions of poverty-stricken Col-
lingwood and Richmond were each above a third of a
penny in the £on the annual valuation. Squalid Port
;'[.„ b ° urne P ald "early a halfpenny in the £, and the rich
city one-eighth of a penny. The prosperous racing-clubs,
"bile using the hospital largely, sent practically no coin.
Mines Department has had horse-sense
im thp h J°l Sa ‘ V f i A °r t 0 the reC)uest t 0 immediately jump
Fund Thl e p° r 6ne i tS Umler the Mi,lels ’ Accident Relief
bund. The extraordinary argument was used, because in
the two and a half years the fund has saved up a few
thousand pounds, that the concern is “more than payino-
its way. ’ The fact is overlooked that the fund h£ been
nU > I fc tln £ w l do '' s . and hfe pensioners, too, while the
vidows husbands, being dead, aren’t paying in as re°-u-
-m iht aS to h uJ “ S6d to ‘ F ? r , a ff eneri, tion, contributions
ought to be in excess of disbursements-until, at any
late, as many widows and children leave the fund as enter
it. So far, there are practically no departures ; there are
only arrivals. The result is that a sleadiiv increasin °
proportion of the revenue is being called for For the
cent qua 7 er ( Jan,la >T .March, 1901), only 19 per
f n f n the e “Pj oyees contributions was paid' out—so
Butfrom J thaf bodV , ''f' T tinle to % 1 killed or maimed.
Rut from that point there has every quarter been a larger
call, until, by the end of 1902, nearly 58 per cent, was
going out; and, if the increase goes on at the same rate
e i° f IT 95 per cent - of «>«e contributions will
ftindSt Th ' S C ° l U " try ,s strewll with the wrecks of
funds that have gone broae through the horror of seeing
S accumulate at compound interest. Australia is a
vhale at fixing up pension schemes, and superannuation
funds and so on ; hut it sees most of them end indisap-
thenserepleni > shed the C ° firSt pr ° vide fm ' keepi^
A consignment of 4000 cases of New South
cT eS n orar ',i eS W f con<le mned lately in Melbourne, being
fT h red sca,e -. The consignee was much sur-
prised at this sudden action, and couldn’t for thp life of
hun see where the harm lay. “ They were only going to
be boiled down for marmalade,” he said. J S
An angry shareholder forwards a copy of the
balance sheet of the Bray-brook Implement Go. (Vic ) for
the year ending J une 30th, !9°3. All things considered,
b ? qrobab y do !t we !L t 0 be an f?ry. The earnings were
~ 8> on th ® ° ther side, directors’ fees and auditors’ fees
alone amounted to £290. Other expenses (interest, can-
vassing, salaries, &c.,) reached £2226. Including what
appears to be a. quite inadequate allowance for deprecia-
tion the year s losses were £2763. The co.’s debts to the
Pl'Mm »ow amount to £lO 635 ; and a general deficiency
of £9511 is shown. Probably the real deficiency is much
larger, because, as said just now, it is almost certain that
the writings-ofif for depreciation have not been nearly
large enough. The banks and principal creditors have
secured themselves more or less by taking deben-
tures covering the whole of the assets ; if they
forced a realisation it is pretty certain that little
or nothing would be left for the shareholders. The co
is a good type of what Australia would be if the forei-m-
-trader had his way. It depends upon the “ great natural
industries of the country—it has tried to live by relying
upon the farmer and the grazier. And already it has lost
lialf its capital (the capital was some time ago written
down from 1 39,640 to £19,820 by order of the court), is
now in the hands of its money-lender, and looks very
much as though it might easily lose the rest of its capitai.
It was mentioned, the other day, in N.S.W.
T Ce the beginning of the year,
£3,5°°,000 has been borrowed on short-dated Treasury
bibs Tim off-hand way of financing will yet lead to
trouble Some year, soon, the. State may find that it
' var ' ts to borrow £3,000,000 to renew an old loan, and
£3,000,000 or £4,000,000 to renew short-dated Treasury
• alls, and £3,000,000 to keep the boom going, and then
me shadow of Cohen’s nose on the wall will grow very
portentous indeed. The ordinary loan postpones the day
'VI * for 25 years or so > bufc Treasury bills only put it
off for four or five years at most.
* * * *
“Wanderer”: Unhappy developments have
occurred in Lloyd s Burraga copper mine. Over thirty
men have lately either left or been discharged. Things
nave been made very uncomfortable for the leadin'"-
members of the miners’ union. The secretary was askeS
to either resign from the A.M.A. or leave his billet,
lie, like many others, went. Earnings are being cut,
and in some cases grown youths are working for 4s. per
shift. It is likely that the trouble will be taken to the
Arbitration Court. It cannot be said that the union
men were actually discharged (excepting the secretary) ;
but men were taken from work at which they earned
9s. a shift and asked to go shovelling for 6s. Yet lam
told that more ore is being- raised at present than ever
before, and also that there is abundance of good ore in
the workings. It is also stated by those who should
know that the ore is giving 15 per cent., although
shares are falling. There is no sound reason why wages
should be reduced. Also, it looks something more than
coincidence that the miners forced out of work are
leading members of the A.M.A.
* * * *
“ Schelite ”: Bulletin (27/8/’O3) stated that
“ the late Lewis Lloyd was heart-broken after a syndicate
bought the Burraga mine.” The Western miners would
not have mind"' l had his heart broken years before, for
as a sweater he w as first in hard-rock mining in Australia.
He paid 6s. per day to miners, the wage in some other
mines being 7s. 6d., but the usual wage Bs. 4d. Men who
owned up to working in mines from one end of Australia
to the other would not confess to Burraga, which would
have brought down on them all the odium attaching to
blacklegs.
* * * *
In the last five years the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary Co. has paid in freight alone, to Australian
States and companies, £1,124,531—£704,748 to the S.A.
Government, £250,956 to the Silverton Tram Co., and
£168,827 to coastal shipping cos. On top of that is the
amount paid to deep-sea vessels for carriage of bullion,
timber, &c.
* * * *
Of the 960,000 shares in the Broken Hill Prop.,
all but 350,713 are now held on the London register ; so
that, of the £48,000 dividend just paid, £30,465 goes
Bull-wards. Of the £17,535 distributed in Australia
Adelaide takes £8531, Melbourne £5417, and Svdnev
£2368.
* * * »
The mistake that was made years ago by N.S. W.
Mines Department in issuing mining leases covering gem-
bearing country at White Cliffs, is causing trouble again ;
at lease, that is causing part of the trouble—the other
part is caused by the original owners passing their leases
on to an English co. with an absurdly high capitalisation.
This co. tried to make ends meet first by working on
day-wages and then by tributing, but couldn’t ; and
later on, with the approval of the Mines Department, it
threw its leases open to anybody who liked to pay a
license fee of £6 10s. a year. With the poorer gem in
small demand this tax is felt severely, and the miners are
making another attempt just now to get rid of it. It is
an awkward situation. The Government, having granted
the leases, cannot do anything ; while even at £6 10s. per
miner per year the co. can’t make 1 per cent, on its capi-
tal. The only people, in fact, who have scored are those
who got the co. to take over the leases at the price.
* * * *
Sydney Stock Exchange members are growling
because several mining cos. do not publish returns. Why
don’t the Exchange men act instead of growl? They
have a simple remedy at command. It is a condition of
a stock being “listed” that the secretary of the co. shall
furnish reports regularly. If, after warning, this is not
done the Exchange should not hesitate to remove the
stocks from the list. Shareholders would then want to
know the reason why, and the game of secrecy, which
may suit some directors and secretaries, would be
played out. The greatest sinners in this respect
are Oobar companies. Take a continuous group
—-Ohesne.v, Young Australian, Western, and Occidental 1
Shareholders are reminded occasionally that the first
three still exist by intimations of calls or reconstructions ;
there is never any report as to what work, if any, is being
done. Occidental pays a dividend now and then, but
whether it is earned out of the mine, out of old tailings,
or whether the directors are magnanimous enough to lend
the money, no one outside the charmed circle ever knows :
even the half-yearly reports are silent on the subject.
The Mines Department is the worst sinner of all in toler-
ating this state of things ; it ought to insist, as the
Departments in other States do, on mine-owners fur-
nishing monthly returns, to be available to the public.
The works which the Broken Hill Proprietary,
Block 14, and other Broken Hill cos. are erecting will
not establish the zinc industry in Australia ; all they are
designed to do is to concentrate the zinc-bearing
material, which will call for little labor, the product
being shipped to Europe to be worked up into metal by
more enterprising communities.
* * * *
“Shaker ”: It would be advisable to abolish the
cash rewards offered by Queensland Government for the
discovery of new goldfields, retaining the reward claim as
at present. The existing system encourages a certain class
of alleged prospectors to report the finding of a new
field on totally inadequate grounds, in the hope that the
crowd, when it conies, will discover something which will
enable the said alleged prospectors to claim the reward.
It is a dangerous game, no doubt, but it has been played,
with various degrees of success, several times of ‘late
years. There probably remain very few goldfields, of
sufficient importance to warrant the pajunent of a cash
reward, to be discovered in Queensland, and the poll-
taxed Queenslander can’t afford to go to “ duffer” rushes
these times. It would do no harm, too, to hang, say
half-a-dozen newspaper correspondents, as a hint not to
use quite so powerful a microscope on alleged new finds.
* * * *
“Tambaroora”: When writer left Charters
Towers, three years ago, he sold 300 Queen Crosses at
7s. 6d. —and smiled. At present Queen Cross, owing to a
lucky crosscut into a foot wall, is paying a monthly 2s. a
share, and scrip (doubled issue) is selling at about 70s.
This constitutes the heaviest cross writer has so far had
to bear.
* * * *
W.A. official figures for 1902 show that gold to
the value of £7,947,662 was won, and £1,424,272 was paid
in divs., or about 18 per cent, of the product. The mar-
ket value of shares in div.-paying co’s. is about £11,500,000,
so that the proportion of divs. to value is about 12 per
cent. There may be individual mines, such as the
Boulder and Perseverance, which may be worth ten
years’purchase, hut in the aggregate'it is certain that
stocks, comparatively low as they now are, are grossly
over-valued. Since 18S6 £37,670,312 worth of gold has
been produced, and £7,483,112 has been paid in divs. •
investigation would probably disclose that the latter does
not wholly represent mine profits, but includes share-
dealing profits. There were 20,476 persons employed in
mines in 1902, and “ the value of gold produced per man
was £3BB”—a calculation which points to nothing in par-
ticular in the absence of information as to the amount of
capital expended in addition. Altogether, the figures
make one thing clear—that mining operations are expen-
sive in W.A.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.), under the charge of
manager Ralph Nicols and sub-manager Flynn, of the
Perseverance, should give a good account of itself. Mr.
Flynn is responsible for the workmanlike manm r in which
the Perseverance has been opened up, and, with a free
hand, should soon lick the South Kalgurli into shape. No
time is to be lost in sinking the shaft and openinv up
fresh levels so as to have plenty of reserves in siofitby
the time the remodelled treatment plant is ready to start.
A table of the actual cost of mining, exclusive
of London expenses, dividend and income tax, of a dozen
of the chief W.A. mines makes instructive reading,
especially when compared with the alleged costs as
given to the press monthly by some of the co’s. con-
cerned
• Actual Costs Alleged Costs
Ivanhoe .. ..£2 4 9 .. £i l3 2
Perseverance .. 2 5 3
Cosmopolitan .. 2 7 11 i iq o
W. Mt. Morgans .. 2 9 3 _.
Gt. Fingall .. .. 29 5 “ 111 o
Gt, Boulder.. .. 214 5 . _ U
Gt. Boulder Main Reef 3 5 10
KalsgurH .. 38 0 .! 110 0
Golden Horseshoe ..3 9 8
L.V. Consols.. .. 315 0 119 5
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 5 0 1 1 8 11
Assoc. Northern . . 6 14 0 " _
The most remarkable case is the Kalgurli, which for
more than a year past, has been publishing its costs as
mider 405., while its yearly report shows them to be
685., or 70 per cent. more. The Oroya-Brown Hill has
only just started publishing monthly costs, but a trans-
formation must have been accomnlishad if costs have
been reduced from £5 os. Id. to £1 Bs. lid. Main Reef
worked at a loss of 2s. 3d. a ton.
One of the wealthiest of Bull-owned mining cos
ap°or figure in Kalgoorlie (W.A.) Police Courtl few
day. back. An air-pipe passes close to a winze which is
being sunk in the mine, yet no attempt was made to con-
nect a down-pipe, with the result that the men at the
bottom had to work in an atmosphere heavy with
poisonous ’fracteur fumes. The paltry alleged economy
panned out all right until a couple got a bigger dose of
poison than usual; when that happened one of them
dropped off the ladder on the way up to air, and is
crippled for life; the other had the hick to just reach the
level before he collapsed. The local mining inspector got
a conviction against Bull’s manager, and had him fined
* * * *
The erection of the Associated Northern (W.A.)
treatment plant is making good headway. The main
shaft has nearly reached the requisite depth for opening
out on the rich ore alleged to have been located
by the diamond drill, but there are still sceptics It
should not be forgotten that Capt. Parkes, after locating
the rich chute in the Oroya by boring, crosscut 50ft. west
from the shaft, then drove north, and finally found the
lode by crosscutting. 150 ft. east, so that the drill
utterly misled him. In sinking the shaft on the Northern
the boreholes have not been found, so the drill probably
went off at a tangent. It turns out that a letter from
Capt. Rodda, dated March, in which the true state of the
ore reserves was given, was suppressed ; hence some of
the trouble in London. Mr. Watt, at one time metal-
lurgist of the Kalgurli, has been appointed assistant
manager, a not very enviable position in the present
precarious state of affairs.
* * * *
Lake Way Goldfield (W.A), a northern wild-
cat, has been successfully reconstructed with a 2s. assess-
ment, which will provide another £15,000 to play with.
Great stress is laid on the fact that manager Leslie Hall
has accepted fully paid shares in lieu of £2OOO cash due to
him by the old co. The co. paid, in October, 1900, one 6d.
dividend, which was not earned ; since then it has been
in a chronic state of collapse. The mill has treated some
8000 tons of joz. stone, and shareholders were assured
that tailings assayed 10 to 13dwt. Holders were
also assured that the property contained a lode 14ft. wide
of similar stuff to that treated, and that this could be got
out so cheaply that mining cost only 4s. and milling ss.
per ton. This was in February 1902'; yet in August 1902
the mill was hung up, and ail hands fired out. Since then
the mine has been closed. Either the interests of share-
holders have been sadly neglected, or the estimates were
all wrong.
* * * *
Peake station, close in to the heart of Aus-
tralia, is making a big struggle to set the mohair industry
on its legs ; the station’s flock of angoras, most of them
either pure or but one or two removes from pure, now
numbers 1200. They are shorn every eight months ; each
clip gives about 41b. per full-grown animal, and the hair,
which must be pure white, is worth from lOd.tols. Bd.
per lb. The present main sources of supply are Turkey
(chiefly Asia Minor) and S’Africa. In S’Airica there is an
export duty of £lOO a head on angora bucks. The drier
the climate the finer the lustre of the fleece ; and if
Australia can get hold of something besides its thirst
that is improved by a drought it will be a godsend.
Years ago the late Price Maurice tried to set
the industry going in the far north of South
Australia ; and the Peake people say they are
convinced that he failed to make a commercial success of
it simply because he tried it in a place with too good a
rainfall. On the average, Great Britain buys £1,250,000
worth of mohair annually ; for the first half of this year
the figure was below the n0rma1—9,170,1731b., valued at
£565,994, or a trifle under 15d. per lb. S’Africa and
Turkey supplied all of this save 150,04 lib.
* * * *
Several Chow miners who have been for a long
time workingan alluvial claim at Beechwoi th (Vic.), are
about to float a company with a capital of £lO,OOO, and
have ordered a 320-horse power steam emrine to drive
gravel pumps and giant nozzles, etc. The board of
directors will be composed of Chinese, but they intend to
employ ‘‘ competent European managers and engine-
drivers.” Some “good union miners” will also be
engaged at ordinary union rates.
* * * *
“Kea”: Re Kotuku oil springs (M.L.). They
are now boring at a depth of 550 ft. The flow of salt
water still continues. The pipe throws up a fountain of
brine 50ft. in height, which shows no sign of diminishing.
Fern leaves, old boots, branches, etc., left 24 hours in the
spray, become prettily encrusted with a hard and brittle
mixture of salt and silica. All vegetation within a radius
of 200 yards has been destroyed, and streams of salty
bitterness wander in ail directions. A little oil collects
nightly in the bore, and burns with much crackling. One
of the two companies at work has recently borrowed the
Grey Harbor Board’s boring plant. Shares are dormant,
and general opinion tends towards cats.
* * * *
The Trans - Pacific, a N.Q.-owned Brazilian
dredging venture, is no bonanza, according to reports.
Last cable reported 50oz. for 205 hours’ work. Recent
half-yearly meeting figures were 6840 z. for 1793 hours
(gold value, £3 195.). A 6d. call follows. A private
advice states that the dredge was averaging only 30 to
35 hours’ work a week, owing to lack of firewood. Still,
“ paids ” (£1) are said to have been bought in by the right
oi owd at £1 ss. As the stock is not listed the market
cannot talk. Rumors arrive that matters are not as they
should be in Brazil, and one prominent director declined
to continue on the hoard. 'Shareholders send an expert
over in September to report, at a cost of i 500. A Maori-
land party, headed by one of the Outtens, is in the same
territory to try another dredging proposition.
Apropos "miners’disease” (due to the accumu-
lation of particles of drill-dust on the lungs), the
Transvaal Government mining engineer mentions in his
report for 1902 that, of 1177 rock-drill men who went to
Englaud when the war started, they had proof of death
of 225 before it finished ; and no doubt many others died
without the news getting back to Africa.
POLITICAL POINTS.
(Continued on page .)
The time limit of speeches in operation in
the M.L. Parliament :
„ r : E - G. Allen : Then what says the “Cyclopaedia of
Political Science?” Mr. Lalor, I think, is the writer.
>» hat does he say ?
Mr. Speaker : Time is up.
“History repeats itself.” Considering
the manner in which the Australian kangaroo
(.Jingo species) balanced himself upon his tail and
howled when reports of Boers using expanding
bullets reached his ears, the rejection of Senator
Higgs’ motion (19 to 5) re use of same in the
British navy, seems curious or characteristic.
VV ho was it said “Britons are a race of hypo-
crites ? ”
An immediate result of the “ swop ” of
complimentary visits between King Ned and
President Lon bet is the stoppage by the French
Government of the Somali Mollah’s rifle supplies,
and a disclosure of the fact that an English firm
has been catering for the said Mollah’s anti-British
warfare. It will be interesting to see what hap-
pens to the members of that firm. If there is
any meaning left in the ancient Tory term of
high treason, several influential citizens in frock-
coats and tall hats should presently be hanged.
“L. W.” : A pity that of the four Vic-
torian senators to retire two should be Protection-
ist and one Labor. Even the foreign-raiders
cannot honestly regret the retirement of Bob
Reid of the customs-dodging stencil, the only
Freetrader of the lot. Had not lie of the
Pronged Tail looked after his own so well, the
electors might have got a chance of dealing with
Bill Zeal and the awful Simon Fraser, who are
practically “ rats ” ; and it is a natural instinct in
humanity to kill rats.
In a moment of thoughtlessness Thomas
Bent published a return showing the money
that the Victorian municipal bodies had col-
lared from the Treasury during the last six
years. The total amount reaches to £1,631,689.
Of that sum £233,000 came out of loans; the
remainder was taken from the consolidated
revenue. The whole of this money has gone to
improve the landed property of the men who
daily cry out about the burden of taxation, and
who want to make up all deficiencies in the
revenue and expenditure account by cutting down
the salaries of public servants.
The Gaud - Mayoralty of Melbourne
was delayed just 23 years. In March, 1878,
William Collins, Lord Provost of Glasgow, ad-
dressed a letter to “The Right Honorable the
Lord Mayor of Melbourne, Australia, ” drawing
attention to an appalling calamity which had
occurred at Blantyre Colliery, and asking for aid.
The then Mayor, John Pigdon, thought that
“ next Queen’s Birthday ” would bring the even
then coveted distinction—but it didn’t. The
address wasn’t a premonition ; it was only a
blunder.
Richardson, a Westralian M.L.C., lately
struck a worse bit of luck than usual. He moved
in favor of some pet fad. On the voices the
chairman declared it carried. But Richardson
mistook the chairman, and called for a division.
Having called for a division when a motion was
declared carried, Richardson’s vote was, by the
rules of the House, counted with the Noes against
iiis own motion ; and this transferred vote shifted
the balance—the Noes had it now. So Richardson
killed his own pet lamb, and the House enjoyed it
almost as much as N.S. W. Assembly would if Dr.
Ross could be inveigled into slaying his Bill for
putting down the baneful cigarette.
The resistance offered to N.S.W. Board
pf Health by such bodies as the councils of Parkes,
Tamworth, Balmain, and Redfern proves that,
with regard to sanitary precautions which cost
money, the local alderman is certainly unfit to
ha.ve the final decision. If the councils are to
continue to represent the landlords it is obviously
necessary for the protection of the public gener-
ally, that the Board of Health should have more
authority. What is required is legislation which
will empower the Board to levy and enforce a
special sanitary rate in the event of the local
council declining to take proper steps to safeguard
the health of the people it generally misre-
presents.
“ A an ” on N.S.W. land legislation :
IL 'h' e recently become possessed of a small area of
N.S.W. The means I adopted to become a “landed pro-
prietor are strictly honorable so far as the legislation of
this country is concerned, but, when the question of
equity between individual and nation is introduced, seem
to me nothing short of a scandal. Originally selected as a
non-residential conditional purchase, it is steadily becom-
ing-freehold. This alienation of land, which should be
for ever the common .property of the nation, is rendered
all the more simple by small annual instalments being all
that is expected from the purchaser. (Certain improve-
ments are, of course, compulsory, but, as they pass from
the Crown with the freehold, they do not enter into the
question.) This land in question is now let by me at
ah almost nominal rental, but, even then, returns me
50 per cent, on the amount annually payable by me to
the Crown. I might have made it ioo per cent., but I
didn fc have the heart to ask the Government to forego
the rent on account of the drought. Thus, through
practically no fault of my own, I am becoming absolute
ovvner of portion of the country—not by paying for it
but by getting it for nothing, and at the same time
deriving an income from it 1 If the Crown demanded the
amount annually payable by me in lespect of the above-
mentioned piece of land as a perpetual rental instead of
a time-payment purchase, it would still be a most profit-
able investment for me.


WE WILL GIVE CASH TO YOU
for any old Gold Watches, Breast Pins,
Chains, Rings, Lockets, Brooches, Diamonds,
Pearls, Sapphires or Rubies ; in short, any old
Gold Jewellery or Precious Stones, whether
broken or not. We will send you a liberal
money order the same day the goods are re-
ceived. If our offer is not acceptable your
articles will be returned immediately.
Pack your articles in cotton wadding or tissue
paper, in small box, write our name and address
plainly on package, and send by registered post,
and we hold ourselves responsible. We refer you
to the London Bank of Australia, Ltd., Broken Hill.
SHAW & CO., Jewellers,
(Also at London.) BROKEN HILL.
N.B.—We sell 15ct. Gent’s Gold Alberts (double or
single) at 75 - per ounce — Cheapest in Australia. - |
SMBS
GO TO HELL-
KiOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagcs?,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 ESizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
SPECTACLES
s
—FOB—
DEFECTIVE
VISION. ™
COUNTRY READERB
who cannot visit ua
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
atructions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASUHING PATENT.
By its use you can Test y ur own sight and de-
termine for yourseif the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
38S C orge-st., Sydney (opposite StrandArcade^
POLITICAL
POINTS
Maffra anti-Federal capital movement is
palpably a dead-beet one.
Premier See of N.S.W. says that he will
never consent to transfer the N. SAV. railways
to Federal control. But after all, John See will
be here such a very short time now that his
opinions hardly matter.
The longest thing in the Victorian State
Parliament when the news came that the House
of Reps, had voted to bring railway servants
under the Arbitration law was the countenance of
Samuel Lancaster of Kyabram.
In the troubled land of Servia the people
have already begun to throw road metal at the
new king, and a loyal subject in Nish is reported
as having slapped the monarch’s open countenance
—with impunity, so far as the cable intelligence
goes.
Ex-Treasurer Illingworth, of Westralia,
says that unless the transcontinental railway is
built he will vote for secession from the Common-
wealth. Poor, excited Shillingworth might just
about as well- vote, for secession from the solar
system.
It is said that the shifting of See-Owe’Sul-
livan means the prompt stoppage of ornamental
work at the new Sydney railway station at Devon-
shire-street. Accommodation sheds will be com-
pleted, but Carruthers, it is believed, will go
direct for a line to the harbor.
FREEDOM OF CONTRACT.
The S.M. HERALD and Sydney Telegraph
have informed their agents that they will not he
allowed to sell any other Sydney morning news-
paper that may he issued, under penally of losing
the agency for the Herald and Telegraph
aforesaid.
N.S.W. Treasurer Waddell says there is
no case on record where the Government
borrowed' money for the improvement of Crown
lands, and then sold the lands, the proceeds
going into the general revenue. It is a pity
Waddell doesn’t know his subject a little better.
Alleged Senator Reid recently :
With our small community of 3f millions of people,
spread over a territory as big as Europe, we cannot go
on providing a vast army of men with snug billets, to
walk about and do nothing.
Do nothing ! Haven’t they to watch for Reid’s
firm’s fraudulent invoices ?
The most remarkable thing about the
speech at the opening of Vic. Parliament was the
thing that wasn’t in it. There was no allusion to
the fact that Victoria has a .£5,500,000 loan falling
due in about three months, and that it doesn’t
know yet whether it will be able to get the money
or not.
Position with regard to the proposed
Commonwealth agreement with the Eastern Ex-
tension Co. is that the Senate will not ratify the
bargain .until the Pacific Cable Board has been
given a chance of reviewing it; 20 members are
pledged to this policy, and in a House of 36 that
constitutes a good majority.
Amongst all the rant and blather about the
horrors of the stokehole in the Red Sea, does it
ever occur to practical men that a little money
spent on ventilation and cooling appliances might
enable white men to put up with the “horror”
very conveniently ? A stiff back on the part of
the Commonwealth now might precipitate reform
of the conditions under which stokers labor on all
the seas. Shareholders, guinea pigs and their
paid advocates, will hang on to the horrors till the
last gasp, because horrors are cheaper than reform.
The V ic. Iceberg Government has caused
the Governor of Pentridge gaol to send out price-
lists with specimens of printing done in that
prison to all police officers in charge of suburban
and country stations, with a special request that
they will bring them under the notice of secre-
taries of local cricket clubs with a view to obtain-
ing orders.
George Reid, when he proposed the toast
of “ Australian industries ” at the N.S.W. Cham-
ber of Manufactures shivoo, was taking the first
steps to making himself square with the Protec-
tionists. When he offered to abandon Freetrade
agitation for the rest of his life, provided a Refer-
endum gave a majority against him, he took the
second step.
Senator Drake hasn’t the capacity to lead
the Senate. When he takes charge from O’Connor
the House at once slips away from the Govern-
ment. The other day he tactlessly tried to bring
down a resolution “ by command of the Governor-
General.” The House was taking no commands
from any G.-G., and the Ministry received a
severe snub.
G. H. Reid’s denunciation of the Barton
Government for alleged want of candor in regard
to the dropping of the Arbitration Bill was in that
genial contortionist’s very best style. His own
candor about the measure was characteristic.
Although he made a speech favoring the Bill, and
denounced the Government for abandoning it, yet
upon the two points which have caused all the
trouble—the extension of its provisions to over-
sea shipping and State employees—he carefully
refrained from expressing any opinion at all.
Since the Victorian Iceberg Ministry came
into power 14 months ago there have been four
tumbles. First the pious M'Kenzie, who was in
the top ranks of political elders, went under.
Then the respectable political importer Robert
Reid fell heavily. Next, Shiels the Raven dropped
from the Treasury to the Railway Department.
The last change has brought up that remarkable
political nonentity, Sachse, as Minister for Edu-
cation. J. M. Davies goes back to the Law port-
folios, and Irvine becomes simple Premier and
Treasurer.
A. very proper person by the name of
Thomas Shaw, who was one of those who cheered
the Irvine Government when it engaged in the
joyous task of sitting on the Victorian
Public Service, has gone frothy at the
mouth over its compulsory land pur-
chase proposals. He rampages over half
a column in the daily press on the sub-
ject. “To drive a man out of his hard-
earned possessions,” says Thomas,
“ may be a Russian way of doing things,
but it is not English. As a land-owner
I maintain that to compel a man to
sell his land is unnecessary, unjust,
tyrannical and iniquitous.” Also: “I
contend that com pulsory sale of their
lands is tyrannical, and only fit to be
perpetrated by a Czar of Russia or a
Turkish Sultan.” One would almost
think this was the language of a sacked
engine-driver. How insurrectionary
and disrespectful to their betters these
Tories are at times.
Another official report about the
the awful rottenness of the British
army has been published and, like
the rest, it will lead to nothing.
The disease lies in British
reverence for “ governing
families in the fact that
the selection of officers is
confined, as far as possible,
to men of wealth, pedigree
and “haw,” and there
aren’t enough geniuses with
wealth, pedigree and
“ haw ” to make an army;
that the average British
officer comes from a class
which hasn’t toiled for some generations and
knows more of shooting game than of hard
work; and that too much pedigree and “haw"
have created the idea that the British army,
so far as concerns the officers, is a club
rather than a practical line of defence. And
when the “governing classes” inquire into the
frightful state to which they have brought the
army they can’t be expected to discover that they
are themselves the incurable disease.
Having, as he thought, on Wednesday of
crisis week jumped too far towards the Labor
corner, lieid devoted Thursday to getting back to
the Argus attitude. One tactless remark, that
white stokers were “the scum of the earth,”
should ensure him a hearty reception when the
Woolloomooloo waterside workers see him next
election time.
While Premier Philp returns from a cham-
pagne banquet tour in North Queensland and says
that he could see no unemployed, the Brisbane
press describes how 1280 rations were issued to
nard-up men in Mackay the other day. But it
doesn’t often say things like that. The most
truthful part of the daily press nowadays is the
advertisement column.
Lancaster, the boss ’Pootra, at Echuca
(Vic.) the other day, talking about irrigation, said
the prosperity of the Rodney area was an indica-
tion of the value of water. “ Rodney had sent
away 4030 tons of fruit, which meant £4OOO to the
railways in freight.” Why doesn’t this prosper-
ous Rodney send in as “ conscience money ” the
wealth it swindled out of the State ?
The S’African “ patriot,” on whose behalf
the Empire made war, is about the most bowel-
less brigand of all times. He used the war to
plunder the country that was disgracing itself by
fighting for him ; now he is using the peace just as
unscrupulously. At Pretoria £621,513 has been
spent in connection with the re-stocking of bur-
ghers’ farms, &c. The burghers have got
£303,536; the brigands, for “ administering ” the
funds, have got £317,977. And there are scores
of such cases.
Apropos Premier Irvine’s resumption
scheme. Victoria has already done a little re-
suming of a kind. Certain land in Lonsdale-
street, Melbourne, was bought in the boom time,
and at boom prices, to oblige some boom friend,
and it has lain idle for 14 years, the loss in interest
alone being £44,991. Another block near the
Titles Office, purchased in 1887, has been unoccu-
pied to date; the interest on the capital cost
being now £53,28L. On these two blocks alone,
including the capital cost, the sum of £229,145
has been thrown away.
In the teeth of half-hearted official denials
(Melbourne papers don’t seem to
attach much credence to the word
of Premier Irvine nowadays)
the Age has been persist-
ently declaring for the past
week or two that the Victo-
rian Government is going
to issue debentures for
£500,000 or so to get money
for public- works. The.game
that Bent, as Public Works
Minister, is playing is a beau-
tiful piece of bluff. Money is
needed for the water and
other schemes already in
hand, but there is a very
shadowy chance of the Govern-
ment being able to raise any-
thing like its proposed .£500,000,
on top of the <£5,500,000 loan
conversion a few months hence. When Bent)
the Bluffer fails to get his loan money he
will be in a position to announce that no
works can be done as he hasn’t got the funds.
And the Victorian public, which never heard
of raising money for public works by a gene-
ral land-tax, will hold further meetings at
Kyabram and elsewhere, and deprecate the
exodus and everything else except its own
stupid dishonesty and unwillingness to bear
a due proportion of taxation.
Andrews, of Geelong, in the Victorian
Assembly:—
How are the Government supporters going to take this
proposal to compulsorily resume land for settlement? I
see that at a recent banquet one of them declared that it
was a serious matter and he proposed to think hard over
it. When the supporters that this Government has begin
to think about anything I’m sure the outlook can’t be
pleasant for Ministers.
Said that when the Wages Attachment
Act lapsed in Victoria the Railway Department
paid over to one usurer on one pay day £BOO on
behalf of employees in difficulties. The good idea
of establishing a State loan society for public ser-
vants seems to have been dropped ; but it would
be a cheap and efficient way of adding a little
enthusiasm or morale to a service which doesn’t
exactly reek with such just now.
The Chiltern correspondent of Melbourne
Age, in reporting the caper of some Melbourne
produce agents who asked local storekeepers to
forward letters falsely stating that certain con-
signments of chaff were for starving stock, so as
to get special railway rates, remarks gently that
“it is considered that an inquiry is necessary.”
Well, tastes differ. Some people would say that
a police court prosecution, with. 12 months' hard
labor on conviction, is necessary. /
The “ pair ’’ system is getting to be a good
deal abused in the Federal Parliament. When
a member goes away for a long spell, leaving
a general arrangement with another member
to “ pair ” on all divisions, it often turns out that
he is made to vote the wrong way—as he explains
at great length later on. There have been of late
several such incidents, and the whole system
should he abolished. The spectacle of a man
going away and leaving behind him his decision,
without knowing what he is deciding about, is
very mechanical legislation.
The commercial man in this country is a
weepful thing. When the poll-tax (which, pro-
duced £BO,OOO a year by laying a special class tax
on people who were earning as little as ss. a
week) was imposed,(the commercial class was
quite satisfied. But when it was proposed to
raise half that sum by a tax on the rich, the cries
of the Brisbane Chamber of Commerce lifted the
roof, and it demanded that the gap in the revenue
should be made good by extra land sales, and said
that if the land wouldn’t sell for 10s. an acre it
should be thrown away for whatever it would
bring.
Judging by present appearances, there
will be a great race between nowand next June
for the position of the State with the Biggest
Debt (per head) on Earth. Queensland, S.A.,
and Westralia are the competitors. Westralia is
a new competitor. Twelve years ago it had the
smallest debt per head in Australasia, and 32
years ago it had no debt
years of boom and Big-
an appalling difference
at all. A dozen
john have made
in the West.
THE KING ON STRIKE.
“Anxiety is felt by Vic. Premier Irvine about the delay
of the Royal assent to the Reform Bill. He has cabled,
but can get no satisfaction.”— Age.
Bent, Irvine, Kyabram and Syme draft another
Coercion Bill.
s
Just before meeting Parliament for what
is expected to be its last session, Premier Irvine
calmly appointed fat landlord Sachse an eighth
salaried Minister, thus ignoring all his previous
promises and pretensions of economy. At Nhill,
with snuffling hypocrisy, he openly warned the
careful Commonwealth Government against ex-
travagance. The ’Pootra Government’s finances
are a fake, its railway policy is causing a deader
loss every week, and now even its blessed economy
is shown to be so much bunkum. Eight salaried
ministers ! Peacock was thrown out for proposing
only six.
The United States runs its laws against
the importation of labor under contract in a way
that would raise the hair of the easy-going Barton
Government. The Chartered Bank of India,
Australia and China sent out an accountant under
engagement to its branch at Manila, and the
Yankee authorities ordered him out of the
Philippines as a contract laborer. A Greek clerk
imported by a Greek merchant was similarly sent
back from New York, and a preacher imported
from England to expound to a fashionable
American churchwasn’t allowed to land because of
the same law.
For years past several insurance com-
panies have been evading the Queensland Stamp
Act, so when a man came along recently to a
public department and said he knew something,
the hard-up Government greeted him as a long
lost brother. Then he said he also knew of large
revenue evasions by another company, and there
WHEN WOMEN VOTE.
"The extension of the franchise to women is expected
to introduce many novel elements in political life.”
MRS. VOYTER : “What ? vote for Mr. Jones
Certainly not. Why, his wife is the most
hateful woman I ever met.”
was a great coolness. The department hurriedly
looked at the second oo.’s list of directors, and
then hustled the man off the doorstep in an un-
brotherly way, and asked him how he dared bring
baseless accusations against eminent and honor-
able public men.
Premier Jenkins, of South Australia, has
assumed a fighting attitude over the Federal
Arbitration Bill, and threatens, if the railway
servants are brought under it, to lease the rail-
ways. Some day a strong Federal Government
will remind people like Jenkins that they aren’t
such large pumpkins now as they imagine. Even
in such a matter as the leasing of State railways
the Australian Government can have a large say.
It has powers of taxation which can be applied to
burst up almost anything. An English railway
syndicate, for instance, might run against a
special income-tax on absentees, which would
make it wish it had never heard of J enkins.
Muecke (the’ German Consul) will appar-
ently have a pretty easy win for the Central
District S. A. Legislative Council seat. The Labor
_ party is running a direct candidate in Henry
Adams, and Dick Wood, an ex-Labor member, is
standing on his own. The full weight of the
Conservatives is behind the German gentleman
whose views are of the stereotyped Tory pattern.
He prudently prints but his initials on his
advertisements. The Adams party says that it
would have some hope if the full name “ Heinrich
Carl Emil Muecke ” was presented to the electors.
A popular impression that his surname is pro-
nounced “ Muck ” is being vigorously combatted.
George Reid's proposal to hold a referen-
dum on the fiscal question is as tricky as most of
his other doings. He proposes to ask the people
to vote either for the present tariff or for a purely
revenue one. He doesn’t propose to let the people
vote for a greatly increased tariff, but to so fix the
issue that a Protectionist victory is to be taken to-
mean that the present very inefficient tariff is. to
continue in all its inefficiency. And after preach-
ing Freetrade all these years as the one thing
which will make the country strong, rich, and
self-reliant, he doesn’t propose to even give the
people a chance to vote for that pure and noble
thing at all. It isn’t to be so mueli as mentioned.
New Chief Railway Commissioner Tait is
going the right way to get himself seriously
disliked in influential Melbourne
quarters. One of the side issues
attached to the policy of upsetting the
railway system, forcing on the strike;
and permanently spoiling the excel-
lent suburban service that formerly
existed, was the desire to introduce
electric traction, and especially to
make a start with it between St.
Kilda and Brighton. (Thomas Bent
acquired some property there a few
months ago.) But Tait got up the
other day and declared himself
strongly against tinkering with an
electric system, presumably out of
loan money, at a minimum cost of
over £2,000,000. Also he pointed out
that Tom Bent’s railway would serve
no legitimate purpose, merely estab-
lishing unhealthy competition with
another railway line.
Chamberlain to the British House of
Commons:
When I am told that our prosperity is bound up with
free imports, I ask, in the first place: What is our
prosperity? Is it a fact, as we are told on the high
authority of Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman, that twelve
millions of our people—more than a fourth of the whole
population—are always on the verge of starvation? Ia
that a proof of the blessings of free-trade ? Is it true
that many once profitable industries have disappeared,,
that the whole of the capital invested in them has been
lost, and that the work-people employed in them have
either gone to Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman’s twelve
millions or else have been forced to emigrate where they
are now finding employment in competition with the
comrades whom they have left at home ? I ask, in the
third place, is it, or is it not, a fact that our greatest ana
oldest industries—l would especially name the iron trade
and the textile industries—are threatened as they never
have been before ; that they might at any moment be
overwhelmed by a great importation of goods manufac-
tured abroad, sold here below cost, the product, mini
you, of protected States?


THE CALLAGHAN BOOT
DAYS
m
25/-
A PAIR.
POST
AND
DUTY
FREE
bxckpt w.a.
AN
EXACT
FIT
CERTAIN
Gentlemen ordering from the
country can quite easily get new
and stylish Boots BY POST; they
can get all the advantages in value
that keen city competition affords ;
they can, by following the instructions we
give below, get an accurate, comfortable fit
1* State size of Boot worn, and, if necoiaanr.
send an old one as a check.
- 2. Place the foot upon a piece of paper and,
firmly pressing it down, draw a pencil line
closely round it for shape of tread.
3. State if your foot is narrow, medium, or broad,
have different widths in every size of boot.
Men s Vici-Kid Boots in black or tan, full of wear, thoughl I
very soft to the feet, 255. a pair. I I
Tan Willow Calf LACE, full goloshed, fast color eye* f
lets, 23/6 ; post paid, 24/6. J
Post and
Duty Fres
except
W.A.
iTou may buy boots at lower prices, but you cannot get the same amount c
gTve w satisfaction? money ‘ These 130043 are honestl y MADE -
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st„
wear from any :
MADE TO '
<
(
SYDNEY. 5
VITADATIO
Still Triumphant.
ACUTE AGUE AND LUMBAGO \
COMPLETELY CURED.
Sandhills, Bundaberg,
‘ Mr.. S. A, PALMER, 14th May, 1902.
Dear Sir,—lt has been my intention for some time past
to write to you respecting my cure. I suffered for a long
.n it^^^ a ? acut , e J formofa^ue and lumbago, and was
so bad that I would fall down in the paddock, in which
position I wouJd often remain until help would arrive,'
as i felt that my condition was getting worse, I decided
to ask the doctor what he thought of VITADATIO. He
told me he did not know much about it, but I should try
T so ‘ , l took in all about flve (5) bottles, and now
* ca ™'?P eak too highly of the effect it had on me. It
sii£elu™Lrf U T e £ me ’ and although nearly two years have
since elapsed, I have had no return of my old complaint.
Vtt a n a i ustl y claim a permanent cure for
lisa nttt; 10 m case - Y °u are at liberty to make any
use of this you wish
Yours very truly,
~ (Signed) GEORGE MOOKE.
Witnessed by WILLIAM DART. '
For further particulars,
S A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonial?.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Oonnell-street, Sydney.
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Tfusses
that are
Full of
Comfort.
They’re full of comfort
because they’re high-
grade comfortable
Trusses and are made
to fit comfortably.
Fitting Experts (Lady
and Gentleman) on the
premises.
ä
Denyer Brothers,
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
k 281 George St. .Sydney
(Opp. Hunter St.),
Also at Melbourne.
å
TO
the
ā
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
GO HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pani-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
anplied method'which will be seiit post
free on mentioning this paper.
If the Bill drafted by Premier Propsting
is carried, Havelock will probably be the last of
the titled nonentities sent by England to vegetate
in the Tasmanian Government House. Propsting
told the House that the pay named in the Bill
would not cover the cost of an imported article, so
that the State would have to content itself with
something local. .Apart from reading the Gover-
nor’s speech to a moderately well-dressed mob
a hout 150 strong, Havelock doesn’t do anything
which calls for remark j so the people are bearing
up under the suggestion that he is likely to be the
last of a third-rate lot of diplomatic hacks.
Ifi
SI
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late IfIPERIAL),
Corner of GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE
Missing Friends.
PERSONAL.
HENRY fcAMPSON, scnoolmaster, who was in
Auckland, New Zealand, about 1866 ;
RICHARD WILSON, whose address in 1882
Har I rl , f C s ’ Esq ” Post Office, Alston-
v » le . Riehirond River, New South Wales :
mi A?M S: FW* R J Q UINp AN, formerly of
Auckland, New Zealand, Carpenter •
™ s “ A ’ l " skl “‘’’
Please communicate with th» undersigned. An\
information concerning the above-named will be
ssass^s?- - -xwS
THOMPSON & NOTT, Solicitors,
118 Pitt Street. Sydney.
He JOHN EVELEIGH DAVIE
and AGNES DAVIE.
E f jE l G r?^ VlE ’ a son of lat,
V. J . ohn E veleigh Davie and Agnes Davie his
wife, formerly of Sherborne, in the County of
Dorset, and a grandson of James Poole late of
tb« WPI P f C n• nfl surve y° r » is entitled under
Je Wills of his ate Aunts, Harriet Poole and
Soplna ! oole, both of Sherborne aforesaid snin-
sters, to a share of their respective resi'duarv
year?since 0 a n mf ? I<3igh left En & klld some
years since, and is supposed to have resided
New South Wales orin South Africa Any infer
mation relating to the above should be sent to
FFOOKS AND DOUGLAS, Solicitors,
. , Sherbor Pe, Dorset, England.
Dated September, 1903, 8
Professor W. Hodgson Ellis, Official
Analyst to the Canadian Government,
certifies that Sunlight Soap contains no
free alkali and no adulteration whatever.
Sunlight
SOHP
REDUCE
Expens
to ia
TYPEWRITERS,
â
3 of the World’s Best
&
New ilodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED
BRISBANE —Webster
TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
Co. ADELAIDE— N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON-Hedley Button.
— —l -
‘nM
mi
It
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that each pair
bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark,
on band inside, as above.
THE NEW
CORSETS.
AH Straight-front
Models, ,
FOR THE WOMAN OF FASHION.
An Ideal Shape for
Summer,
Obtainable from
LEADING DRAPERS
Everywhere.
About a dead politician :
„ Duncan Gillies, ex-Premier of Victoria, ex-Agent
General, Speaker of the Assembly, and many other
thmgs, was ,-mnd dead in his bath at Parliament House
on Saturday. Gillies was 70 years of age, and had lived
on the political frame, m one way and another, for 44 years
His political career started in 1859, and it is 35 years
since he got his first portfolio in the Sladen Government
He sat in seven Ministries, and held the Premiership
for 4 years 8 months—the longest among Victorian
T?,!" llne > bar those of Turner and M'Culloch.
ftilHoa t h l h 0n X S ° od thln 8' to be recorded politically of
Gillies is that he once refused a knighthood. He was
without exception, the worst disaster that ever struck
Victona in a political sense. He was a Tory and a Free-
he W f - a ! y ’ indifferent, selfish, incompetent
and an opportunist; his finance was awful, his bor-
mefhnfl n? • lnsane > and bis utterly unscrupulous
“® tb ° d °/ b W*K support by scattering cockspur rail-
ways has loaded Victoria with a railway deficit that Will
T T nd ltS neck man y years. When Minister for
''' as unseated on the ground that votes had
n-fr P“ rcha ® ed b J’ wholesale land concessions
granted by Gilhes department to Gillies’ constituents dur-
ing a general election. The committee whitewashed Gillies
Dy saying that he wasn’t aware of what was going- on—
department and Gillies’ con-
stituents. The ‘Dictionary of Australian Biography"
recounts the offices he held, but doesn’t mention
one movement that he led, one measure that he
P. a38ed ’ footprint pointing in the right direc-
tion that he left on the political shore. There is
bad in Victorian political life
tnat Gillies didn t support, or originate, or help to
originate ; hardly anything good that he didn’t oppose.
Yet he remained plain Duncan Gillies to the end
which is something in his favor ; and, despite all his
political corruptness, he never was known to loot the cus-
toms or the public estate for the benefit of his own
pocket; nor were there any great scandals charged against
h ' m >u life. A certain dreary respectability hung
about Gillies like a shroud ; he had a considerable
power over his fellow men, and he had enough
courage to be a reformer if he had wanted to reform
anything And the fact that he didn’t found bogus
banks is to his credit. Gillies died poor, and perhaps
for that reason he drew his salary as Speaker
to the bitter end, though long past any work. Even
while he was dying on his feet the pathetic big hat
and the large, shiny, clean-shaven face, that always
looked as if it had been freshly washed with yellow soap
at the kitchen sink, faced Melbourne in public places It
was a strangely vacant face certainly, but it tried so hard
to I°ok like the old face. Gillies was always regarded as
a bachelor, but it now appears that he married when in
London six years ago. Apparently he never lived with
his wife, and the whole thing is a mj^stery.
Postmaster-General Fysh has stated, in a
loud tone of voice, his intention to prosecute the
numerous “embezzlers” brought under his
departmental notice. Unfortunately, the em-
bezzlements referred to by the P.M.G. are mere
shortages in accounts. The prosecution of 50
postal clerks on petty charges relating to- the
books will not stop the leakage of letters, which is
a pretty general cause of complaint in Victoria
and an outrageous scandal in the West. Thou-
sands of letters are destroyed, stolen, or miscar-
ried m the post ” every year, but, as far as the
public can learn, nothing is being done to im-
prove the character of the service.
The last public appearance of Duncan
bnllies wasgruesomely pathetic. It was a Tory job,
m the first place, to appoint Gillies as Stic deer,
and, a month after he was appointed, he had a
seizure which deprived him of speech. That was
in JNovember last. Ever since, he has practically
been dead, but the Government went on paying
j}.!® salary, and Chairman-of-Committees Beazley
did his work. In order to make a pretence of
a square thing, the Government allowed
Gillies to take the chair at the opening of Parlia-
ment. He strutted stiffly into the Chamber
and mounted his seat. \Vhen the messenger
*he Governor was announced, Gillies
Id not even remember the simple formula,
Admit him.” The messenger had to enter
the sacred place without so much as a chilly
invitation of that sort. Then, when members
began to hustle for positions on the notice paper,
Gillies merely stared ahead of him like an image.
Half-a-dozen members rose and shouted “Mr.
Speaker.” Gillies stared at first one and then
another and tapped the floor with his feet. The
babel continued, and Shiels rushed fo. Gillies and
besought him to leave the chair. Apparently
Gillies declined to do so just then. After the
sound of the call for “ Mr. Speaker ’’ had risen to a
roar, Beazley, Chairman of Committees, got to one
side of the chair and began to conduct the business
m something like order. Gillies and Shiels were
still nodding and bobbing to each other. Eventu-
ally Shiels took a grip on the old man on one side,
and with a gentle pressure by Beazley on the
other, Gillies was got out of the chair and Beazley
slid in.


New Vic. Railway boss Tait is treading
heavily on the corns of some of the Viotorian
cookies, who are always crying for more rain,
better roads, more taxes (on other people), more
trains, and more everything. A deputation
waited on him recently from Warragul, protest-
ing against the removal of the loco, depot from
that hub of the universe toTraralgon, and pointed
out that the depot had been at Warragul for
nearly twenty years. Tait, who looks like the
good boy in “Sandford and Merton” grown up,
told the “shareholders,” as they styled them
selves, that they were “darned ” lucky the depot
had been so long at their township, that it was
someone else’s turn now, and—that the door was
open, and he had a cold. The deputation did not
take its dismissal kindly, and expressed its sorrow
that Tait had ever been imported from the home
of the reaper and binder. No doubt Tait by this
time harbors a kindred grief.
In every community it is a frequent occurrence
for someone to be burned or scalded. The best
treatment is Chamberlain’s Pain Balm, which
almost instantly relieves the pain, and quickly
heals the injured parts. Sold everywhere at
Is. 6d.*
Findon Harriers Hunt Club.
Great Spring Race Meeting
MO ON EE
VALLEY.
Saturday,
19th Sept., 1903.
Under the distinguished patronage and in the presence
of their Excellencies the Governor-General and Lady
Tennyson and suite.
FINDON GRAND AMATEUR CUP, 225 sovs.-
The Hunters’ Grand National. Amateur Riders.
RUPERTSWOOD BRACELET STAKES, 10D
sovs. Horses to run in ladies’ names and colors.
Four other interesting events. First race 2.15 p.m.
R. M. CUTHBERTSON, Secretary.
&
Till
'b'*
COON - COON . COON,
I’YE MADE UP MY MIND
TO SAIL AWAY.
The Honeysuckle & the Bee,
I Skedaddled, It's the Man behind the
Gun, Sweet Ivy May Jerry Co,
I MelindoLoo, Sometimes, When the
Harvest Days are Over, also Two
Hundred other Ori'»ina ICoon and
Love AH f be LATEST HITS.
Posted for ONE SHILLING,
anywhere. Statons or Postal Note.
B P. Co., Box 404, G.P.O.,Sydney
Banking, Public Companies, Sec.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&l
c#»
$
aaxNnoosia
siiia
axr.s.-'w.
P|ont deplete I. Co., &td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'-THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices * - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Borns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Robbrtb
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruck Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305— assuring £27,614,218.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of north Queensland
1,1 AirrED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 TOO ... *350,000
H.* Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,354
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
Head Offices BRISBANE. £693 ’ 351
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Compy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for* Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.,
Dire-'f-ors Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
D Bright & Oo.X Hon. John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Pliilp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide: L. A. Jessoi', Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Ci.ynb ; Adelaide, VV. N.
M'Fari.ank ; Brisbane, I£. Wii.soN ; Perth, A - ' V '
j. J.AU.EH, 0«»Yi
snipping.
KT. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
or
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
C.M.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 28th OCTOBER.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TN€ RB€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
AUSTRALASIAN
SOPHOCLES
SALAMIS
T. F. Spalding .. jnouu, oeyu. «
H. A. Sohleman .. Noon, Oct. 9
A. H. H. G. Douglas Noon, Oct. 30
PARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £31109 .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MEIBOUBiME
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoon3field Parade
ST. KILDA.
rnHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-L the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
A., and. A. LiIKTB.
TWO GRAINTD EXCURSIONS.
YOSEMITE VALLEY and CALIFORNIA BIG TREES,
UP IN THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS.
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland say Yosemite surpasses eventhe grandeur of the Alps.
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MONTE (monterey).
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND HEALTH AND PLEASURE RESORT.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate in these excursions.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building’s, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,0.00
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital _' ... £2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. G. ZEXiZDIF&IIDa-IH] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
onntry Order» bypost from all the eoloniet promptly
attended to.
tEB
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
l Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
I how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
DEAF
IJHE3
Address—A. M. HAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Aemand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
flEBEffl
nmwiTfl
"AUSTRALIA
uEGEiaiaai
pHEAP SETS.—B Turkey, 6d;
47 Spain, Is 6d; 6 British
Guiana, 6d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 10 Bul-
garia, 6d; 11 Canada, 6d : 15
Boumania, 6d; 6 United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Rica, 4d ; 3 Victoria, 1850 issue,
7s 6d ; 4 Sudan, 9d ; 20 Brazil,
Is ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal, 6d.
New Catalogue of Stamps, & c., Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins st., Melbourne.
NEW MORNING PAPER.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
The Daily Mail
ONE PENNY.
Minimum Size —Eight Large Pages.
All Cable and other Late News.
FIRST ISSUE on
Saturday, 3rd October Next,
w H idsoin.e Illuminated. Supplement.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
CHEAPEST ROUTE
TO
LONDON.
STEAMERS SAIL-
Oct. 5.. Nov. 2. Nov. 30.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing: Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
TheLanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con=*
venient and Healthy Locality.
flodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
♦-
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr, Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels. Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole Af/ent for Austral axia.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin' writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. From all Booksellers, or the
Publishers, The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
SUpplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOB MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And OULF PORTS
ESPEHANOE BAT
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE, <
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Innamincka,
Friday, Sept. 18, at 5 p.m.
(Transhipping at
Melbourne).
i
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, Sept. 26, at 10 a.m.
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, September 19.
-S.S. Innamincka, Sept. 26.
S.S. Gabo, October 3.
Heat and Cheapest Koate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Ticket,s are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
p.
AND rv COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERB
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
/
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PASSENGERS DOOKeato uomuay,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
In landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.'
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
EV h)it i
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to European#Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
’ 37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rNLORODYNE.
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAEBHCEA, *>«“*
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J-COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS i
Sept. 28 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of al
others, I should say Chlobodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of^ simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.
LADIES’
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel, 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention. k
Price Lists on application.
680-682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
At Dawn and Dusk: *
By Y. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price ss.


Grandfather of English Premier Balfour
made his money (.£300,000) in four years, out of
food contracts for the Indian army. He WM,
presumably, not too honest a man.
A
: DEAR OLD TRIM.
Dan Trimmer (in bath-room): “Maria, jest
bring along Fisher’s Phospherine.”
. Mrs. Trimmer : “ What on earth do you want it
m tlie bath-room for?”
D.T.:. “I’m only following the directions.
Doesn t it say on the bottle—To be taken three
times a day in water ? ”
Five drops in water half-an-liour after each meal
is the greatest digester known, and corrects a
sluggish liver.
Five drops in water half-an-hour before break-
.counteracts the deleterious effects of over-
indulgence in a most remarkable manner.
It cleanses the palate, and settles the stomach,
removing all Headache. Invaluable in cases of
Sea-sickness. When starting on a journey, either
on land or sea, buy a bottle of Fisher’s Phos-
pherine. But be sure it is “FISHER’S ! ” All
Chemists, Is. Four times the quantity, 2s. 6d.
POST FREE to the Country Everywhere.
Unsolicited Testimonial from the South*
Messrs. Fisher and Co.,
337 George=street, Sydney.
Barrengarry, June 25, 1901.
Dear Sirs, —1 must write and tell you
that your PHOSPHERINE is a splendid
medicine for the HEAD and NERVES.
I believe it is the BEST MEDICINE EVER
MADE. I will never be without it. It
seems to brace up the whole system, and
is undoubtedly an unequalled tonic. —
Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM HAY.
When you feel Weak, Languid and Run
Down, don't forget
Fisher’s phospherine
The BEST MEDICINE Ever Made.
2h.p. to 100h.p«
KING. MARINE OIL ENGINES
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall. ~
-y
■v
<0
Noiseless Underwater i ,
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 267 i.
‘■X- JM "V d X\E O O =S* J, J.O 3AT U SC Cl o T\E
•a r JoiiA\ anx s’tcwxkoo aa.vaa atfo— 3nion3 !>nim 3hi hum
30 PITT STREET, SYTITCnnv.
ă
FREE! FREE!
Cut this out and send it to us, and we will send you free,
postage prepaid, in plain wrapper, a copy of the new edition
of our splendid, invaluable and standard illustrated Medical
Work, which acknowledged medical treatise should be read by
every adult.
The Twentieth Century Belt
Our improved Belt is the most modern and perfect in the
world. It is stronger than any other, and is a certain cure for
all oases of Nervous Disorders, Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheu-
matism, Liver, Kidney and Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go
Pains, and that tired feeling. It will cure after all others fail.
Our Belt gives a soothing, warm, strengthening and delightful
current of electricity into the afflicted nerves and system while
you sleep. It never burns the body, because it is'constructed
to give electricity in a proper way.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
Others claim this, but we are the only ones who will really send a valuable Belt abso-
lutely free on trial for three months. If you are cured we know you will willingly pay; if
you are not cured, you will not have to pay one penny. Write at onoe.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. (Dept. M.)
49 ELIZABETH STREET, ITELBOURNE, VIC.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
ML
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR’S
FRESH HERRINGS
IN 1-lb. FLAT ROUND TINS.
ManJifrs.-JOHN MMR & SON Ltd, LONDON, ABERDEEN and
% SEVILLE. Head Office: g & 10, Great Tower St., London, E.C . w,
9
SOME BOOKST SIR ROBERT!
HI
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
toy Hr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d posted. Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners, illustrated, is posted. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. How to Dance, Is ; post, Is 3d. How
to Wrestle, Is ; post, Is 2d. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, Is 3d posted. Tailoring for
Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s
each posted. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to
Bate Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Rkc iter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Gd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handvbook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, is 3d.’
Georgette, Is; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Howto
Make Love, Is 6d. Fowler’s Science of Life, 10s 6d.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d Nat Gould’s
Sporting Novels, 2s edition for Is 9d, post paid, any
of them. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength ,3s 3d posted.
Cbiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is Gd posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s9d posted!
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1908 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
How TO Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., ls. Sd
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated is post"
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille is!
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Horse and Cattle Doctor"
Is. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor
cures for all diseases, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Letter
Writer Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is : post
is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, is; post is 3d
Inquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it*
3000 subjects, is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Cabinet Making for. Amatfups
illustrated, 3s 6d post. Resurrection, Bd. posted. " ’
Don’t be -Fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. m~ Established 20 Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCi
CAN BE QOT FROM THIS ADVT.
■
Write for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
How TO Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is
Photography for Amateurs, Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is. 3d. post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d.
and Is. Tokology, 7s. 6d. post. Voltaire’s Ro-
•mances, 2s. Ingersoll’s Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 6d. posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over. 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’Court of London Series, 2s. each posted!
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings’
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 paces’,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid!
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d’
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted’
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
TTIaICT
SPOONER’S
ą
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
Universal cream
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (ia
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
SPOONER'S
♦ v m %
r>* «!»*•►•%*• •*»
*•
I WENT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED RIDS ft?
RUN-AWAY PRICES
This Month
to Advertise
our
Ostrich
Tips
3 Tips with
Ospreys,
Black, Cream,
or Black tipped
with White.
Ml
A MARVEL OP CHEAPNESS.
The Bunch
Post Free.
2/6
Postal Note.
Write To-Day.
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATNERSHOP,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
Wore a Torture
BELT.
SUFFERED TERRIBLE AGONY.
From wearing an Electric Belt
charged by the use of
SULPHURIG TIG ID.
Mr. W. Folley, Alfred Woollen Mills,
Williamstown, Vic., writing to the ,Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt Co., tells how he
was scarred and burned by the use of a
Free Belt, which he had erroneously
been led to believe was as good as theirs;
He paid £4 for the Free Belt because
he had been convinced that by paying
this cash price he was obtaining a similar
appliance to Dr. McLaughlin’s Famous
rejuvenator which has gained World
Wide; fame as a Curative Agent. It goes
to show how misleading are advertise-
ments which seem to offer something for
nothing.
Gentlemen —In answer to your kind in-
quiries after my health, I beg to state that
I have been completely cured of the Scia-
tica that has‘troubled me for years. I
cannot thank you enough for your gentle-
manly treatment and fair dealing with your
patients, as I know from others that their
treatment has been the same as mine.
I may just as well let you know my ex-
perience in seeking a cure for my trouble
before I purchased one of your High Grade
Belts. I had been under doctors and re-
ceived scant relief; and also tried various,
quacks, but it was all the same. I then
placed myself in the hands of a Specialist
(in Melbourne) guaranteed to cure Rheu-
matism and Sciatica, but received very
small benefit from the treatment. I then
had my attention drawn to Electricity.
Well, I thought, “ Never venture, never
win,” so I PROCURED first of all a Belt
for £1 and was very much disappointed-
because I was informed that it was- neces-
sary to take a long and exceedingly ex-
pensive course of drug, treatment. I would
not do this and then I wrote for, and ob-
tained a so-called Free Belt, with a
most “ Wonderful Pedigree,” at a cost of
£4. I wore the Belt according to the in-
structions given faithfully for a period of
five weeks, and by that time I was Burnt
and Blistered so badly that I could not
wear it longer, and still no relief was
gained, although the Belt was guaranteed
to Cure Anything in Sciatica in One
Month. You bet I was very much dis-
couraged in regard to Electric Belts.
However, I was persuaded to come and
just see you, gentlemen. I then found
that I had been wearing a Torture Belt
and very Wrongly Applied, and quite
enough to give and patient a Horror of
so-called Electric Belts. After the con-
sultation I decided to place myself in your
hands. I knew my case was very diffi-
cult, as I was compelled to follow my em-
ployment, and standing at the vice was
irksome, and the complaint was a veiy
stubborn one. However, gentlemen, your
Belt, coupled with your advice, has made
me a grateful patient. I thank you kindly
for supplying me with a remedy which has
Completely Cured Me, and strongly recom-
mend it to all and sundry that I find are
suffering from the distressing malady
called “ Sciatica.”
I have not been wearing the Belt for the
past fortnight, but have passed it over to
my wife, who has received great benefit
for nervous troubles.
I remain, your grateful patient, ’
W. FOLLEY


The
Woman
Who is discouraged and run down after having
tried doctor after doctor without getting any perma-
nent relief may regain health and happiness. Thou-
sands of these sick and discouraged women have
been benefited by the use of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. As a simple unit of one of the many
thousands who have been restored to health and
happiness through Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
we publish the letter of Mrs. E. Bousfield, 138
Crown-street, Surrey Hills. She writes
“I am very glad of the opportunity of being
able to give my testimony'as to the benefit I have
derived from Dr. Morse’s Indian Root pills. I
suffered for years with kidney complaint, bilious-
ness, with headaches that nearly drove me mad.
I tried all sorts of remedies and consulted doctors,
but with no avail, and I began to feel that 1
should never be right again. I could hardly stand,
and the pains across my back were so bad that it
made me a perfect invalid. I was at last induced
and advised to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
by a friend who had derived great benefit from
them. I did so, and I can now say with every
truthfulness that I am now in better health than
ever I was. I have no trouble now in getting
about and doing my work, in fact I can hardly
realise that it was Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
that put me right and cured me ; but of that I am
perfectly certain, and I would not on any account
be without them. I take them with we wherever
I go. I can certainly advise and recommend
them to any women similarly troubled, to give
them a trial, and I am sure they will quickly feel
the benefit.”
For all female complaints and disorders arising
from a diseased stomach these pills are invaluable.
They clence the stomach, put life in the liver, aid
the kidneys, and purify the blood. Packed in
amber bottles, and sold throughout Australasia.*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE <>. LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A JVC. Derby was a great boil over, and trainer
Tom Pay ten seems fated never to win a blue riband event
despite that he has occasionally got very close up. Duke
of Grafton’s manner of securing Rawson Stakes at
Randwick two weeks before (conceding 101 b. over w f a )
made him look such a good investment that odds of <5
and 7 to 4 on were readily laid until Mo tightened up and
asked twos. . The raucous voices dinned “8 tol Belah” into
the crowd’s ears incessantly without inducing much
business, and 7’s were obtainable about Victoria’s repre-
sentative, Sweet Nell. Belah practically led from jump-
off to judge’s box and Won comfortably, with Sweet Nell
second and the favorite a bad third. Only once did Duke
of Grafton threaten winning, and then at the distance
but he shot his bolt in a few strides. In recent Rawson
Stakes (lm. If.) Duke of Grafton and Belah met at a
difference of 101 b. in favor of latter, and former triumphed
With Belah far in the rear. Weights were equal in the
Derby. Belah, a well-shaped black colt, at once takes
the eye ; he was bred at the Mungie Bundie stud, near
Moree (N.S.W.) by owner, Mr. John M'Donald, and
springs from a family of stayers. He is by Havoc (son of
Musket and Goldsbrough mare Frailty) from Wilo- a by
Epigram from Nellie, by Tim Whiffler from Sappho
Belah’s successes include First Nursery Handicap (lm at
A.J.C. Autumn meet) and recent Lyndhurst Stakes (6if.)
at Rosehill after a hot finish with Marvel Loch and
Whiting. Interesting that it was winning jock’s (W. H.
Smith's) first mount in a Derby. Time 2.39 f has been
beaten—particularly by Hautvilliers’ 2.37*.
* * * *
, Battle between M.L. galloping machine, Cruci-
form, and Australia’s champion, Wakeful, in Spring
Stakes'(l*m.), Saturday, was most exciting duel ever seen
at A.J.C. headquarters, mainly because of unquestionably
representative credentials of the two nags. The Victory
and Postillion were others engaged. Only two first
n'atiied weri thought of in a winning connection, and
though here and there The Victory found support at 100
to 10, backers laid 7 to 4 on Wakeful, and accepted twos,
and occasionally 9 to-4, Cruciform. For verging on a
mile the Maorilander made her own running (a big tax),
then Wakeful shot up inside and drew level, and the pair
moved away from Postillion, travelling at a clink-
ing pace. Bracketed head and head, the two wonders
streaked down the straight, till finally, with excitement at
snapping point, Cruciform’s head was observed clear of
the opposing mare’s, and then a great roar arose when lit
was seen she held her advantage. Away they sped to the
winning-post, riders and nags having every ounce up aiid
straining every nerve till they flashed past the judge
with the yejlow-and-black liverv -of M.L.’s great sport,
Mr. Stead, a short head to the good. Randwick
has seldom known such a burst of cheering (re-
peated thrice over) as greeted the result, the ring of
which was all the more genuine seeing that the favorite
went under. Though Postillion bumped Wakeful at one
stage the.occurrence made no difference, for the pace was
slow then and the mare soon regained her position ; but
-over the last 4*fur. the struggle was something that will
never be effaced from the memories of those who
Witnessed it. Despite that M.L. jockey Hewitt (up on
Cruciform) lost something by letting Wakeful have the
rails, he made up for it in superb horsemanship at the
critical juncture ; his Tod Sloan ” riding stood to him
well. Postillion finished two lengths behind the leading
pair and four lengths in front of The Victory, thus
making his Melbourne Cup prospects look particularly
sweet.
* * * *
A.J.C. big Spring mile (the Epsom) saw 17 line
up, as against 11 more last year. Only elimination on
the course was St. Modan, who had just previously
secured Trial Handicap. Winner turned up in favorite
Fanjous (9 to 2 against), who scored by . a neck
from third choice (Faithful) after a ding-dong, high-
tension tussle down the straight, and then only
through his jockey, Frank Fielder, being stronger
than the other (Bradshaw). Fielder .fairly lifted
his mount past th‘e post at the end, and never showed
better than in this struggle. Famous is a four-year-old,
trained and owned by Sam Fielder, and is by Grafton
from Vanity by Marvellous, but there his pedigree is lost.
At two years a Rosehill Nursery Handicap fell to him,
then came a similar event at Moorefield, and a Flying
Welter at Rosehill. Late last season Famous annexed
the Welter Plate at Sandown (Vic,.), and, since coming
back, appropriated Flying Handicap at Warwick Farm (a
lucky win from Lord Cardigan), and July Stakes at Rose-
hill. Only for the doubt that Famous might be in one of
his bad moods—he is admit tedly unreliable that way—
Mo would have had to unload still more largely.
Opening of A.J.C. Spring meet saw a Derby
Day record attendance of 28,000 at Randwick. Previous
biggest was last year’s 25,000. Results were, on the
whole, disastrous for backers, whereat there was much
joy in Israel. Only twice did favorites succeed. Gatherer
(St. Modan) of Trial Stakes was “any price”—nominally
15 and 20 to 1. Eights were freely offered against Derby
Winner Belah. Prices of three placed nags in Kensington
Handicap were at least 20 to 1 each, and, while 9 to 4 was
available about Maorilander Cruciform’s chance in Spring
Handicap, punters laid 7 to 4 on opposing Wakeful freely.
* * • •'
One (Tatterdemalion) of the three already
weightily invested upon Caulfield Cup favorites was
served up the choicest possible thing for Trial Stakes, at
Randwick, Saturday, and heaps of public money went on
at 6 to 4 (which was about the best price available at any
time up to flag-fall) but he never got within dozens of
lengths of the lead at any stage, and ultimately tailed off
to nowhere towards the finish. Rarely has a heavily sup-
ported nag made such a poor showing. In striking con-
trast the big outsider(St. Modan) of the field, about whom
Mo. almost let the backer write his own odds, led from
start to finish and won easily.
* * * »
Last year final acceptances for A.J.C. Metrop.
totalled 27, this time they were 26, and all sported silk on
Monday. Persistent support and weight of money sent
Faithful out hot at fours, though in places no better than
threes could be had. Differently owned stable chums—
T.M.S. and Famous—were next in request at B’s and 10’s,
as named, while at least a dozen others were heavily
backed, notably Nothos (upon whom a big “commish”
was placed at card-call previous Saturday night, and at
the course early Monday), St. Modan, Cyanide, and
Highflyer. Minister for Lands Crick backed his horse
Ossian to win a goodly pile of thousands, and about
twice as much would have come to a well-known ex-
politician and solicitor (who races as “Mr. T. Marvel”)
had T.M.S. proved successful. Winner turned up in Mar-
vel Loch, who beat T.M.S. by a length, with Ossian a head
behind, third. Though among the outside section, Marvel
Loch was well enough supported to leave many of the
Noses, who had laid hundreds to two and hundreds to
four against, lamenting. At Tatts.’ rooms morning of
race 500 to 5 went begging because the offer made it
appear that the mare wouldn’t be a starter, or had broken
down. One prominent Sydney punter gathered £2OOO
through the result, and his backing of the nag was
prompted by the fact that Marvel Loch got away last in
the Epsom, ran right round her field, yet made up lost
ground and finished fifth. Air Motor was verging on up-
sides with third (Ossian) in the race, and close against
her were Nothos (who should win ere the meeting closes),
Sweet Nell, and Highflyer. Favorite Faithful was never
prominent at any stage, and Cyanide seemed to be buried
in the ruck all the trip. Time (2.3s).equals the l*m. Aus-
tralian record previously shared in by Survivor, Fairy
Prince, San Fran and Patronus. Absolute best for the
continent is M.L. nag. Advance’s 2.34 1-5. In America
Goodrich covered the distance in 2.30 J. Avidity has the
English top figures—2.3o 4-5.
* * * *
Metrop. surprise, Marvel Loch, is by Lochiel
from Marvelette, and consequently well named. She was
bred by Mr. John M'Master in Liverpool Plains district.
Her dam was by Marvellous (imp.) from Contessa, by
Gemma di Vergy (imp.) Marvel Loch (at 3yrs.) scored
her first win, annexing a Park Stakes at Canterbury last
year. Subsequently she ran second to erratic Santoi in a
Moorefield sprint; then Rosehill Railway Stakes fell to
her. Doncaster Handicap saw the mare third to Rose
Petal and Ban Ceontha and, through getting a bad run,
she was beaten by Ambulance in the A.J.C. Flying
Handicap. This season Marvel Loch finished unplaced to
T.M.S. in a 6fur. handicap at Rosehill, and two weeks
afterwards went under narrowly to Derby winner Belah.
Her next appearance supplied evidence of material
improvement—-she got away with Tramway Handicap, at
Tatt’s. August meet. Marvel Loch’s Metrop. success
means a 141bs. penalty for Caulfield Cup, making her
load 8.4.
* * » *
“ Punter ”: Concerning Marvel Loch’s Metrop.
scoop. It did seem strange that stable-mate Faithful
should start a hot pot at 3’s, while t’other was among the
very outside lot, especially as trainer Scully thought the
pair so equal that he took £lOOO to £5O about each for the
Epsom. Surely Ikey Mo must be the favored of Fortune,
for, had second or third horse been in Marvel
Loch’s position, the diamond bespattered’s store of
shekels would have been largely depleted, particularly if
T.M.S. got home. As it is, not one of the big double
books has been struck, though some shops will have to
pay out, for Marvel Loch was occasionally coupled with
Famous, because everything else had been taken. Mares
haven’t been over successful in the Metrop., though races
of 1899,1902 and 1903 have gone to the sex.
* * » *
A.J.C. First Steeple, Monday, induced nine
starters, and though five fell, race was interesting
throughout and run at a speedy bat. Second lap brought
Kaffir and Victorian Wongleburnie down, and further on,
Moravian’s rider was dislodged, while last obstacle (the
logs) proved disastrous to prospects of very tired V.R.C.
Grand National winner Grafnell, who started a warm
favorite, and Queenslander Ringwood, whose neck was
broken. Just here the money looked sure for Blackthorn,
who had been flying his jumps well and making all the
running, but on the flat that consistently fine performer,
Brokerage, smothered him without an effort and won
easily from Grafter. Grafnell’s cropper shook nag and
rider badly, and Ringwood’s jock, was unconscious for
some time.
* » * *
Trainer Fielder’s luck in the Metrop.: Four
years ago his Cranberry was second to Cremona ; last
year The Persian filled a similar position when Queen of
Sheba won ; and this time T.M.S. followed suit.
* * ♦ *
Say the owner’s name was Jilkins and the name
of the fashionable jockey who had just weighed out to
ride his nag was Bilkins. Scene, Caulfield racecourse.
Two or three friends of Jilkins are anxiously appealing to
him for information. Is he going to back his horse ?
Jilkins scratches his head in a troubled way, and replies,
“Back my horse? I can’t tell you until I see what
Bilkins is doing.” That about explains the position of
the average owner to-day. He’s afraid to back his nag
until he has assured himself that the jockey is not backing
something else
* * • *
Only two men have ridden three S. A.J.C.
winners—Simpson, who won the first three (’6O, ’6l, and
’62), and W. H. Ross, who won the last two and that of
1900. Apropos, Wyman, South Australia’s most brilliant
rider of 25 years back, who rode the winner twice in suc-
cession and had bad luck in losing the race the third year,
is now, or was a few months back, caretaker of aMethody
church a mile or two from where his old stables were.
* * » *
Whilom great ’chaser Domino qualified for
first prize in heavyweight hunter’s competition at Vic-
torian Royal Agricultural Show, day or two since. His
lepping was capital, no task troubled him the least bit.
The old grey’s hair has whitened some since he humped
13st. over Caulfield’s four-mile steeple course four years
ago, and won easily, but he looks as well as ever, and
wears an appearance which suggests a possibility of
recovering his best form, provided a thorough prepara-
tion be gone through. Pity that more wasn’t seen of
him. When withdrawn from racing he was sound as a
bell, and everything indicated that much bigger things
were within his scope.
* * 3|( *
The enterprising business man again. A well-
known Sydney city publican pumped beer incessantly for
weeks before Saturday last, through offering every pur-
chaser of a drink at his bar £2O to nothing about picking
the treble—A.J.C. Derby, Epsom, and Metrop.—with the
understanding that if there was more than one successful
guess the money should be whacked among the lot. This
scribe hasn’t been able to find out exactly how many
named those two outsiders for the Derby and Metrop. on
their cards, but has been informed that they totalled
considerably more than a few.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Gun ” : Know one or two people who backed
T.M.S. because those were the initial letters of the name
of the event—The Metropolitan Stakes. Had T.M.S. got
home the ranks of believers in “the office” about the
result of a race would have had several fresh recruits
* * * *
Given out at time of “black’’Bill Forrester’s
death that that fine old son (The Chief) of now defunct
Gozo would be pensioned off for the term of “ his
natural ” at Tucka Tucka, but he’s in training again,
and was among the “ other starters ” in recent Tatt’s.
Spring Handicap, looking as well as ever. It should be
no surprise if he pulls off something big ere long
* * * »
Champion trotter Ribbonwood was brought up
on the milk of the cow, and • his full sister, now nine
months old, is being similarly treated. The young lady’s
drink bill runs to 7s. 6d. a week.
* » * *
First-class entries have been received for the
well-endowed classic events of the Canterbury (M.L.)
Jockey Club for 1904-5-6, a large number of finely-bred
youngsters figuring in the list. Messrs. F. Reynolds,
J. Thompson and T. Payten (N.S.W.) have cast their eyes
across the Tasman sea, and are represented by eight,
sired by Lochiel, Grafton and Medallion respectively.
* . » « •
After vainly spending a sack of money at law in
endeavoring to keep the pencilling fraternity off Riccarton
(M.L.)racecourse (it being ruled to be a public reserve), the
C.J.C. lately went for the tote-odds crowd baldheaded
under the Police Offences Act. As they had contravened
a brand new regulation relating to the conditions of
admission, they were fined. There have been over a hun-
dred convictions for “ trespassing” on private racecourses
in same district, and latterly the fines have been a fiver,
which practically meant that they paid that much in the
shape of a license to bet. A court warning that gaol
without the option will be the punishment to fit the crime
in future has somewhat dampened Mo.’s ardor.
* * * •
There is one place where, for the time, Mo. and
the tote do thrive side by side, and that place is the
Westralian goldfields. Yet, though the tote certainly
makes Mo. more liberal than he would otherwise be,
Mo.’s prices can’t, as a rule, come within cooee of the
tote’s. The biggest difference is when an outsider gets
in. Best books’ price about Brayleigh, who won the big
Boulder Steeplechase money, was 7 to 1; the tote paid
£lllos.
* • * •
Not before it is time, V.R.C. may shortly insist
upon some reforms in connection with Melbourne subur-
ban racing. Increase of stake money to £3OO or £350 is
talked of, and it is also hinted that some of the mid-week
racing will be dropped. Horsey Melbourne will applaud
the step, which is sure to make for the advancement of
the game.
♦ » * *
Inter-State Stock Exchange walk, on the Ade-
laide Oval last Wednesday, may serve to put the finishing
touch to that particular kind of sport. Sparling, of Mel-
bourne, finished the 12 miles in 43 seconds under two
hours, on a close-clipped grass track —three to the
mile. There were very few on the ground who did
not credit him with running occasionally. Anyway,
his was an artificial sort of gait, and of no practical
use. Alfred Roberts, the old footballer and present
tennis expert, finished half a minute behind, W. J. P.
Davies and Twiss being over a lap in the rear. These three,
all Adelaide men, won the match for their side easily.
All three walked with conspicuous fairness, as did North,
the only other Melbourne man to finish. An “open”
walk followed, in w’hich competitors went practically as
they pleased, and Stack (of the Register office) rattled
off eight miles in lh. 3m. 15s. Several running events, for
brokers only, were chiefly noticeable for the fact that Clem
Hill won the hurdles and was second in the hundred ; but
it is hoped they may lead to a revival of amateur athletics,
which have been dead in S.A. for years past.
* * * *
Recently the Sydney manager of one of the
biggest Australasian steamship companies was asked to
delay the departure of a 2000-ton steamer by some hours,
because a suburban golf champion was a passenger, and
if the vessel wasn’t delayed his club would have to do its
best to lick another suburban club without his assistance.
These golf people do take themselves seriously.
» * * *
The 24 hours’ walking championship of S.A.,
• recently decided, showed good men going “in all
shapes,” in accordance with the old proverb. Ultimate
winner Swan (110 m. 568 yards) led for the last 12 hours,
but Young was never a mile behind him. Swan is a
little, nuggety veteran of 50 or thereabouts, Young a
long slim boy of barely 20, out of a draper’s shop 1 Two
others covered over 90 miles in the time, and all would
probably have done better on the grass where the race
started ; but heavy rains drove them indoors to a small
ring and a board floor. The 24 hours were broken up
thus : 2 p.m. to midnight on Friday, 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. and
4 to 10 p.m. on Saturday.
* * * *
The baseball premiership of N.S.W. has ended
in an unexpected win for Paddington. This club and the
Leichhardt team divide all the limelight in the somewhat
restricted local baseball world. Each had been defeated
once, and both sides were anxious to play off for the
premiership. Leichhardt had but one game to play, that
against Woollahra, a weak team. So it was proposed to
Woollahra that it should forfeit the match and let the
giants battle for the first place ; but Woollahra was
anxious for a practice against the invincible Leichhardt
team, and insisted on its right of being eaten up by
the cracks. They met accordingly, but the eating up
was done by Woollahra, which defeated the Leichhardt
team with painful ease. So Paddington wins the com-
petition.
* * » *
N.S.W. pigeon slaying championship this year
“ attracted ” 28 men, who subscribed among them £l4O
for the stakes. Before the prize was awarded they killed
amongst them 820 birds, without counting those which
fell dead or mutilated “ out of bounds.” A few dozen of
the hapless pigeons got away ; but few of them escaped
sound, the majority being “ feathered,” “ tattered,” or
“ plucked ” in the vernacular of the sport, to become the
spoil of the watchers outside the enclosure. The sure
fate of nearly every pigeon raised is the trap of the
shooting club, and the reading of a newspaper report of a
champion shooting event is harrowing to the feelings of
the private individual who has had his pretty pets stolen.
The pigeon thief can always find a safe and sure market.
* * * *
Maoriland Amateur Boxing Association cham-
pionships, decided at Christchurch August 27, 28 and 29,
proved to be fiery comets with flaming tails of gore.
Maoriland has long stigmatised bruising exhibitions as
brutal; but when it was called boxing everyone opined
’twas “ a sport for gentlemen,” and fell over themselves
in their eagerness to get a good seat. Recent champion-
ships were devoid of science, being mostly desperate
encounters between wharf-lumpers and carters. H.
Taylor (Wellington) slogged his way to victory in the
heavy-weights, leaving behind him a wake of mangled
opponent. J. M. Griffin (Invercargill), by mere bruising,
annexed the middle-weight medal and a special cup.
When he got a Mow home it usually lifted his man out
into the audience, and the ambulance dashed in. The
light-weights went to A. Farquharson, and the feather-
weights to A. Parker, both of Dunedin. The various
battles extended over three nights, and drew big houses.
* * ♦ *
Bert Murphy, fourth and youngest of M.L.
fighting family to which once world’s champion feather,
“ Torpedo ” Billy, and sometime Australian premier
middleweight Tim belong, and of which long since
dead Jimmy (S’African lightweight champion) was a
member, had his first real battle at Sydney Golden
Gate A.C. Saturday night. Opposed to one “ Robbo,” a
tough ’un from Toughville, who began by appropriating a
9st. Novice tourney a few months back, and has won
six times since without meeting defeat, Murphy made
a gritty showing, and occasionally looked a winner.
Robbo carried too many guns (though not by much) and
won in the sixth round. Beaten man showed enough to
warrant the opinion that he’ll get to the top yet, for all
the material is there, it only needs training and develop-
ing. Battle bristled with incident, despite that it was
the loser’s first effort in anything like good company.
The bruise wherein Irish cockney Denny
Moloney and clever up-country pug, “ Ted ” Nelson,
were engaged at Sydney National S.O. Monday night,
•filled the house and was vigorous, albeit devoid of inci-
dent and occasionally wearisome because of manner in
which cleverness of Nelson baffled superior force and un-
questionable grit of t’other. Nelson accumulated all the
points in every round. Now and again Moloney scored
but not effectively. Nelson slipped a lot, while 'Moloney
was sent to his knees once with a punch on the ear.
Ultimately the 16th rounp saw Moloney so utterly used-
up that referee M‘Donald declared Nelson the winner.
• • • •
Fight ’tween West Indian black, “Cakewalker ”
Savral, and Victorian feather, Silver, at Queen’s Hall,
Melbourne, last week resulted sensationally. Negro
looked a certainty on performances, and odds of 2 and 3
to 1 on his chance were freely offered but rarely taken.
Pace was furious from moment they shaped. Exchanges
were heavy, with white most in evidence till near bell
sound for the first 3mins. when black copped a frame-
shaking right on the point that made him oscillate and
sag. Another immediately afterwards sent him to
the boards quivering like a chocolate jelly; he rose groggy
to be floored again, and was saved by the gong. The
minute’s spell was not long enough for recuperation, and
Savral moved to the centre, still dazed, to meet a para-
lysing uppercut, which so palpably and decisively beat
him that the referee intervened and gave Silver the
money. Melbourne hasn’t seen a more complete stag-
gerer, for the black was thought almost invincible at his
weight—probably £st. in excess of the other chap’s,
while Silver wasn’t rated near a top-notcher. Savral has
since been suing for another test, alleging he was caught
napping. All the same, Silver will probably win again if
they come together.
» * * *
Harold Smith-“ Psycho ” (unique in pug.
nomenclature) Hansen bruise at Sydney National 5.0.,
last week, was exciting, but not nearly so much as Regan-
Wilson curtain raiser. Each pounded with remarkable vim
and effect, and never expended a punch fruitlessly till the
referee stopped the rough and gave the big end of the
purse to Wilson. Smith, a promising pupil of retired
middleweight premier Mick Dunn, surprised Hansen a
heap, and, after the initial round, punched home a
weighty left frequently. Hansen was busy, too, but not
to the same extent as Smith, and things were lively till
the end of the fifth round, when the towel from Hansen’s
corner indicated he had had enough, and the crowd
cheered both, particularly Smith, who’ll do well against a
better man.
» * « *
The power of the Heckenberg family in N.S.W.
wood-chopping. At Campbelltown recently the brothers
filled three places in handicap chop. Last Saturday, at
Wollongong, they were first and third in a similar event,
and first, second, and third in the “ underhand ” compe-
tition. The champion of the six didn’t figure at all
* * * *
The combined Cricket Association’s Union for
nurturing and advancing junior cricket is the latest
Sydney development. Five strongest bodies outside
N.S.W.O.A. have joined forces and represent 2300 players.
Inter-Association matches will be a feature ofthe new
order of things, which ’tis hoped may make materially for
the advancement of the second-rate section.
* * * 3g
The first three bowlers to take 100 wickets in
the present English season were Barnes (who is at last
showing something of his Australian form), Hargreave,
and Rhodes. They all reached three figures within a few
hours of each other. Hargreave shows considerably the
best average. Relf (coming out with Warner) and Albert
Trott each seem, by figures (and in batting too), to be
practically the same value on a side as Barnes, but
had not done so much work. J. T. Hearne, who has
suddenly come back to his best form, was second only to
Hirst in the averages, and it was evidently he, with help
from Bosanquet and Trott, who won the premiership
for Middlesex. Hirst, Bosanquet and John Gunri are
easily the best all-round men in England this year.
Q.-N.S.W. football matches in Brisbane, last
week, weren’t over-exciting and never high-class.
Scores of first contest were 11 to 3 in favor of N.S.W.
Visitors’second engagement was against a Brisbane 15,
and, though play on both sides improved much,;it was
nothing to rave about. Tussle went to the Cornstalks,
who accumulated 15 to t’other’s 7. Third rough (Satur-
day last) was hot from end to end, and game iooked
either side’s till five minutes before time, when two
inexcusable transgressions saw home team penalised, and
opposition scored goals through each, making full totals
12 —5, with N.S.W. best. Wickham gathered every point
for the winners. Operations were very even throughout.
Bananalanders shone at loose play, but scrum-work and
passing of the others was surer and cleaner.
* * * *
Of the 34 Vic. football Premierships gathered
in since 1870, Geelong has collared 7, Carlton and
Essendon 6 each, South 5, Melbourne 4, Fitzroy 3 and
Collingwood 3— but Collingwood only came into existenco
in 1894.
* » * *
“ Harrier ” : Concerning alleged cross-country
championship of N.S.W. decided t’other day. Where
does “cross country” come in? They run round Ken-
sington race track and jump hurdles. Only a few times
in its history has the contest been what it professes, and
what it should be. Then the spectacle of the thing ! A
long tail early and two or three men (two on latest occa-
sion) shooting away from the others as if they were stand-
ing. Many of those who struggled the 5 miles out were
lapped, which means they were, in some instances, a mile
behind. Result was a repetition of last year’s race, and
apparently it will always be the same until “Wall}'”
York or Smith, or both, depart for fresh scenes or get too
old for the game. There’s no one in sight with anything
like the stamina of the pair named, and theirs is not
remarkable.
• • * *
Died, t’other day, once forefront Victorian oars-
man Sam Gowdie, from pneumonia supervening upon
influenza. He rowed with Vic. crew in inter-State eight-
oar race in ’B5, ’B6, and ’B7, and in ’BB, when there were
two races, he was stroke each time. Peculiar how Gowdie
came to associate himself with rowing ; he began helping
a brother, who had been recommended rowing for a weak
constitution, and then stuck to it.
* » * *
When the Australian rifle team that went to
Bisley last year got back it wasn’t safe to mention the
commanding officer’s name to some of them ; and this
year’s lot seem to be more furious still. A first consign-
ment of the men, who have come back by the Omrah,
promise trouble. They say they weren’t coached or
diligently captained, and that it was by sheer, good luck
that they came out even as well as they did.
4c * • *
Thirty-seven entered for Victorian golf
supremacy last week, but they didn’t all materialise.
W. J. 0. Riddell, who succeeded two years ago, survived
with an aggregate of 323—5 better than that of H.
Mac Neill, the immediately previous winner. Fierce
wind all three days put brilliancy out of the question
altogether, and marred play considerably.
From the Age’s obituary column (a female
advertiser): —
Oould I have been there in that hour of death,
To have caught the last sound of his parting breath,
His last faint whisper I might have heard,
And breathed his ear one parting word.
Again woman’s irrepressible desire for the last
word !
Members of the N.S.W. lady deputation,
which recently tried without result to effect the
release of Ethel Herringe, at present in prison for
having mortally wounded the man who refused to
marry her, are now claiming through the press the
right of woman to shoot her seducer. There is a
good deal to be said against the proposal, though
it must be admitted that it would effectually
settle the problem of what to do with our boys.


A Nib,
A Bottle of Ink,
A Sheet of Paper,
and
LETTER BOOK
Hake* a complete estflt
with which any man, wo-
man or child can write a
t letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy.
From 0. Plummer, Rutland Street, Auckland, N.Z.,
Straw Hat Manufacturer. , August 18, 1902.
Two months’ trial of the Pen Carbon Lbtter Book obtained from you has satisfied us
that your
P“
roduce
reserve
revent
ǻ
lean
(opies
onfusion
ETTER
egible
( asting
oss and
OOKS
ills
I right
ad Language
Yours faithfully, 0. PLUMMER,
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
Is a True and Valued Friend.
Sole Australasian
Agents—
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
FOB P.D. CORSETS
IN ALL THE BEST SHAPES, AND ALL
Regular Sizes, send to
Finney, Isles & Co., Brisbane.
At the same time ask for samples of any Drapery and Clothing Goods you may require: also for
copy of their General Catalogue and Fashion Book, and satisfy yourselves that—
“AFTER ALL, YOU CAN’T BEAT FINNEY’S!”
æ
ǽ
Just Landed ! We are in receipt of a new shipment of
RED BIRD BICYCLES (1903 Models).
These bicycles have been specially built for Australian Road and Track riding They embody the very latest
m scientific cycle construction. The mechanism is simple and every part is interchangeable. Cash or Terms.
Agents all Towns. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., LTD., 64 King St., Sydney.
CAMPBELL OIL ENGINES
X
Portable and Stationary.
26 Working in Queensland.
The_Most_Simple_Oil_J3nglne using Kerosene only.
Lists and Particulars FREE on application to the
SOLE AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND-
CLARK and FAUSET,
Eagle Street, Brisbane
Swagman Jones, the crank committed for
trial for the murder at Manila (N.S.W.), is
another instance of the evil effects of Gospelism.
What time he was toying with a tomahawk he
wrote to a friend—or rather got a frightened matron
to write it for him—“I am now about to make a
great sacrifice for the dear Lord. After that I
will get two shillings.” When a police sergeant
came to arrest him he fired a gun at the unwel-
come officer, exclaiming “Christ’s will must be
done, ’ and after his arrest he regretted that he
hadn’t made some more sacrifices for the Lord.
Looks as though Jones was suffering from the
influence of the Salvation Harmy war cries—
Blood and Fire. A Harmy captain in a red
guernsey preaching Blood and Fire to a cranky
Jones ought to be treated as a punishable offence.
Mr. JACOB G. REBUS, 112 Brodway, New
York, writes?
“ F p r years 1 suffered with ASTHMA, spent hundreds
of dollars for doctors and medicines—was confined to
my home for weeks. JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
BROUGHT RELIEF AT ONCE.”*
The most important feature of B. R. Wise’s
Habitual Criminals Bill is the power it gives to
the Governor-in-CoUncil to set free a convicted
prisoner. The Gpvernor-in-Council, presumably
in most cases the Minister for Justice, will act on
the report of the prison authorities, and thus,
unless strict safeguards are set up, the wrong
criminal may be frequently set free. Governors
enjoyed a power like this in the early days, and
the records are stained with evil applications of it.
A man, four times convicted of one of the serious
offences, is taken by the Bill out of the hands of
the court and given over to gaol officials who, if
incompetent or corrupt, may hold him a convict
for ever, or recommend release where it should not
be granted.
Few man have a better knowledge of the
working of the Lands Acts than has Land Agent
N. Willis of 21 Bligh-street. Payment by
results is not only reasonable but also novel.*
It is alleged in the Victorian Parliament
that the Iceberg Government is in for trouble
over the Constitution Reform Bill, which is lying
m the British Colonial Office awaiting the King’s
assent. It is declared that the Imperial authori-
p S j,'. ' l? 0 *’ recommend the Royal assent until the
-Public service separate representation clauses,
which were sneaked into the measure behind the
backs of the people, have received the approval of
the electors at a general election. It is also
alleged that the Iceberg Government is even now
stealthily preparing for an election on the old
r S1S * u ® ome °blor is lent to this view by the fact
that the Government has ordered the printing of
the rolls oil the old basis, and that the Iceberg
himself admits that he has sent at least one cable
to LondonT-e the Bill.-
9f
HAND-IN-HAND
forEICHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar*
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shaving Stick*
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most "Any Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
Flawless skins ensured by t he
use of Williams’ Jersey Cream
Toilet Soap. 4oz. Cake sent,
post paid, for 9d. in stamps. ■
J. B. WILLIAMS 00., Glas-
*£*ss7* oonn -. U.S.A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
' lit i H
According to the evidence before the local
board of inquiry, Dr. Ramsay Smith, of Adelaide,
borrowed a knife one morning “ to bone a China-
man, ” whose corpse had fallen into his possession
and whose skeleton he wished to send to a scientific
friend in Aberdeen awa’. “ Boning ” a Chinaman
is good.
The magnificent collection of Phil May’s
drawings contributed to The Bulletin is now on
view at 324 George-street. The sale is to-morrow,
Friday , at 11 a.m.
rsorran
can
rmai j i
"UOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
- 1 - ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,” “Wf
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS.
&
CD
CO
ã
By a new discovery, odorless
and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food.
i It does its work so silently and
1 surely that while the dove ted
| wife, sister or daughter looks on
' the drunkard is reclaimed even
against his will and without his
knowledge or co-operation.
Miss Edith WILLIAMS, who
cured her father after years of
misery, wretchedness and almost
unbearable suffering, says:— 44 1
Shall be so glad if you publish my
experience, for it will reach
many others and let them know
about the wonderful EUCRA SY.
I will do all I can to help any
suffering sister who will writs me.” Send name and
address to THE
Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney,
and they win send yon Booklet and particulars FREE.
SNAPSHOOTING
a
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THB MARKI
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/. nett •
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
IF you wish to get good work and value
u»«Ji U D Shou,d P ureha se W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
f C i k of which are always kept on
appncat?o a n to- UeB all particulftra 00
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 c ° l,,n ® Street, Melbourne,
(Greener s Representative).
CHAS GILBERTS
Genuine Panama Hats
u
E
E
N
S
T
• •
m
m
are cheaper at my store than at any
other house in the Commonwealth,
and, what’s more, the finest selec-
tion ! This season’s shipments are
warranted genuine French finish,
ensuring perfect bleaching, and pre-
venting the plait splitting.
I’ll Replace any Hat
(within reasonable time of purchase)
which is not satisfactory. Sent
securely packed, and posted carriage
paid, to any address, on receipt of
cash, at—
-17/6, 21/-, 26/- 27/6,
36/- to 50/-
My Values
are Matchless!
B
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
• - *
m
ir
m
SPECIALITIES
. The abandonment of the Federal Arbitra-
tion Bill has caused the Federated Seamen’s
Union to contemplate taking a test case to the
High Court to determine whether crews of foreign
ships, not paid Australian rate of wages, are not
frohibited persons within the meaning of the
immigration Restriction Act, and, as such, liable
to exclusion from Commonwealth waters. Union
relies upon sub-section G. of clause III., which
places among prohibited persons :
Any person under a contract or agreement to perform
manual labor within the Commonwealth, provided that
this paragraph shall not apply to workmen exempted by
the Minister for special skill required in Australia, or to
persons under control or agreement to serve as part of
the crew of a vessel engaged in the coasting trade in
Australian waters, if the rate of ivages specified therein
he not lower than the rates ruling in the Commonwealth.
No one interested in art or in Australian
history can afford to miss inspecting to-day the
collection of Phil May’s Bulletin drawings at
324 George-street. These will be dispersed at the
sale to-morrow, Friday; and in all probability
such a fine series will never be brought together
again.
Melbourne Australasian offers its disas-
trous support to Bigjohn Forrest as first Federal
High Commissioner in England :
There can be no doubt that Mr. John Forrest should
have the High Commissionership. He is an ardent
Imperialist, whose every effort would he devoted towards
strengthening the ties between the Motherland and the
Commonwealth. He is a man of wealth, and he has
behind him a career of conspicuous service in several
directions, which entitles him to the goodwill of his
native land, and to the respect and trust of those who
love the empire.
That testimonial, coming from such a quarter,
should lead to the hanging-up of John for further
consideration, and especially for further details.
What does the Australasian mean by “ an ardent
Imperialist”? The Bulletin is an ardent Im-
perialist—it is so anxious for the good of that part
of the empire called Australia, that it would
cheerfully see Chamberlain executed if Australia
would benefit thereby. John Forrest is also an
ardent Imperialist it seems—but which part of
the empire is he ardent about ?
Bent s latest notion is more than comic.
He proposes to help the Victorian fanner to build
his roads by selling a liarrow strip along each side
of existing 2 and 3-chain roads, and reckons to get
about £10 an acre for the strips. It looks simple
and pretty —like Thomas himself. Also, it works
out just as absurdly. Take a farmer with about a
thousand yards of frontage to a main road. This
man is to be offered a strip, five yards wide, along
this frontage—which will make just an acre—and
for this he is to pay £10, and then it will cost him
from £25 to £50 to remove his fence or hedge.
Certainly, he can graze the shorthorn horse and
the bob-tailed cow thereon without going to this
expense, but, as he does that at present for
nothing, where is the use of paying £40 or £60
for it?
Phil May’s unrivalled series of examples of
black-and-wnite art done in Australia is now on
view at 324 G-eorge-street. The collection will be
sold to-morroiv, Friday, at 11 a.m.
Vic. Labor-member Anstey, in a recent
speech at Maryborough (Vic.), said some things
which were carefully not reported in the Mel-
bourne dailies. Extract from report in Mary-
borough Standard:—
Take the M'Gulloch Carrying Company, which practi-
cally belonged to Mr. M'Culloch, M.L.C., and its trans-
actions with the State. A farmer lived, say, between two
lines of railway. The M’CuIloch company went to the
authorities and asked for concessions if it brought that
farmer’s trade to the railway—where else would it go?
Anyhow, the concession was granted, and last year the
company had had £30,000 concessions. Was that business-
like ? A Government which had any business fn il would
have gone straight to the farmer and given him the con-
cession if there was to be any. But, no, the farmer could
pay, and the M‘Culloch company get rich for “ bringing
business. ” There was a syndicate holding Crown lands
known as the Ballarat East Concession, which was com-
posed of two brothers. What did they do ? Held leases,
allowed other people to work them, and drew fat royalties
off Crown lands. That was a lovely state of affairs. This 1
had been going on for years. From one mine alone they I
have had £16,000 in royalty for the right to work ground
which belongs to the Crown. The leases fell in last'
December, and the Irvine Government showed how!
genuine it was in its desire to economise that it renewed
the leases, thus permitting these two brothers to draw
from the companies thousands of pounds.
A
Good
Trio
i;g&g~Z
v* u ‘ £,c=<«'
V
9-
Vagssv*.
~-%ss&k
. 'ja«rtf*2:-»
1
x
&iE§
usbW
- Y\e^ & (
\
_ £**,**£s£
. l^yt>
** t&Zs&'tifrig** 1
SC* **.£&'* 1 '
«^3Ss«rJ(Ss»ft'
*<*««£?
iwf^^^SSisSSSssa
\sS*&as£im
Sydney Depot:
150 Clarence Street#


: V-
rf- r
,
■
F
1 .;
• Mk:
;v ■
i
A * AAA A A. A A A ->
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
nt
mu
lIM
in
“ Where e’er is smoke, there, too, is fire,”
This much the proverb shows ;
But all Tobaccos are not of
The “sweetness of the rose.”
The best of all the smokes on earth,
That must approval win,
Is “ HAVELOCK,” sold in dark and bright,
And also plug and tin.
A r.TCAUTIWL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives avv>y
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine da velopes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London. *
Ouit New Selection, by “ Steele Rudd,” will
be ready in November. Even more humorous
than his first book, with more pictures. Price Gs,
Alteration in names and addresses in
Sydney and suburbs, for insertion in Sands’
Directory, 1904, may be sent to the compiler not
later than the first week in October.*
The Labor Party has now a big say
In all political movements,
And, if it governs wisely, may
Make many great improvements;
We hope to have some better laws,
And better health—that’s sure.
If you feel ill, a cold the cause,
Take Woods’Great Peppermint Cure.*
“ Ne’er-do-Weel ” on an undertaker :
I once saw the champion mean man of the district
taken down. He was an undertaker, and though there
is a certain amount of excuse for a man proceeding some
lengths in the endeavor to make business these hard
times, he went altogether too far. I was in a bush hos-
pital. There were only two others in the same ward as
myself, and one of these was a former sergeant of the
R.1.C., the wreck of a once magnificent man, who had
stood fully 6Jft. in his stockings, now dying of consump-
tion. The undertaker, who was a member of the hospital
committee, spotted this man, and scraped acquaintance
with him. On every visit, he asked the wardsman or
matron how O’Hara was, and was always told the end
was very near. At last, he was told O’Hara would die
within the week. He went in and sat down by the,
patient’s bed, and was bending over talking to him
when the glint of brass caught my eye. The ghoul
had his foot-rule in his hand, and was stealthily
measuring the lengthy patient. I sent a note
to the doctor, and he fell on the undertaker. Latter’s
reply wa§ that O’Hara was sure to die, and there
Would be some difficulty' in fitting a man of his length
with a coffin, and he wanted to be prepared for the job.
He prepared accordingly. A day or two later O’Hara
took a turn for the better, and his friends took him down
to the seaside, where he promptly passed away. Then
the maddest undertaker in Christendom was left with a
uselessly long coffin on his hands, and he filled the town
with his cries and lamentations.
To all those afflicted with rheumatism, we re-
commend a trial of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm.
One application will relieve the pain, and its con-
tinued use for a short time will result in a cure.
Sold everywhere at Is. 6d.*
BFAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
MORRIS’S^
imperial." Umpcrisl
E\>e * *
©tntment
mm.
Acids lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-
chemists & ste-es. Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melb
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using- CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, mide -from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cu.cs. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
' Plexse mention Bulletin when writing.
à
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
SOAPS
DIBINFECTORS
INHALERS
FUMICATORS
m
lISINFECTINfi
FLUID.
. >/• >
COLORLESS
FRACRANT
NON-
POISONOUB
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
CIRMS
OXYCENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \
Formic Fumigators /
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
"HOW TO DISINFECT ’’ Book Free.
The “SfINITAS” CO.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.
á
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justlv-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENGY, Castlereagh St.
syzdhstiey-
Too Stout
I was for years; by chance I canoe across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Btreet, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
Concerning the Site.
The casual scoff of Ernest Eavenc :—
The real trouble concerning the much-vexed question
of the site of the Federal Capital appears to be the diffi-
culty of finding a spot where nature has preeminently
combined all her favors of climate, scenery, soil, water,
and all other essentials. Of course, the idea of our
Federal legislators meeting in a place devoid of all these
pleasant attributes would be intolerable. Therefore, the
general notion is that the most suitable site is the locality
which nature has most lavishly endowed. That is the
popular way of looking at it. Another way is from a
colossally rugged standpoint of pure patriotism and com-
monsense—not the conventional legislative patriotism
that modestly accepts a snug billet and perks, but the
true patriotism that is ready to undergo trouble and dis-
comfort for a national cause. It is an undisputed asser-
tion that the building of the Federal capital will greatly
benefit the district lucky enough to secure its presence ;
but why benefit a district already highly favored
by nature ? Why not benefit a district that
wants artificial benefits bestowed on it; that wants
man to populate it, and devote all his energy to improve
it and make it productive and prosperous? How could it
be better done than by putting the Federal capital there?
All the present rival sites come forward with their special
offers of great natural endowments ; why should not one
site come forward without any such pleas? “ I am only
a poor forlorn site, at the back of nowhere. I possess
neither trade nor railway, and have no inducements to
offer in the shape of climate, soil or scenery. But if the
Federal capital is built here I have any amount of
unalienated land to accommodate it. 1 shall soon have
railway communication with all the States, and rapidly
become a flourishing centre of population, and the country
all around me would benefit with me.”
To this, a patriotic Government would answer : “ Most
certainly, it is the duty of a national Government to help
on and populate a district which nature has done little
for. Never mind the climate or the soil, we will stand all
that—* it is our duty, and we will ! ’ ”
It might strike many people that building a city in a
poorly-populated part with no natural advantages, would
be the height of folly; but that is because such people
have no originality. In fact, the Australian atmosphere
is dead against originality. Look at our nomenclature !
The only original names we have are borrowed from the
Dutch ; and a few that we fbndly look upon as aboriginal.
But let us cite an example : Let us, in fancy, build the
capital at Milparinka, a distant township in the far North-
west, which about, to put it vulgarly, fills the bill. It is
by no means unhealthy, although the climate cannot he
he'd forth as a model one. What would he the result of
putting the capital there ? A railway line would be con-
structed, and important.townships would spring up along
its course. The howling desert, ms the west of the
Darling is considered, would blossom like the prover-
bial rose, and the Paroo and Cobham Lake become
known to the world outside of this continent. In fact,
it would alter the entire conditions of the far Western
country, for all the inventive talent of Australia would
be called on to fight the rigors of nature In that part. In
reality it would add a new province to the continent.
How much better this would be than giving a fillip
to Bombala or Orange. Regarded from a national
Austra'ian standpoint, a glance at the continental
maps will convince every unprejudiced person that
the finger of fate points directly at Milparinka as
the site of the future Federal capital. Not only are
there no vested interests in huge private estates to take
over, but the nature of the country would allow of the
creation of a much larger Federal territory than has been
proposed. Let us then put an end to all rivalry and
jealousy and determine upon Milparinka as the site, and
start the capital on a wood and iron basis until we are
clear of some of our debt. Our legislators may not enjoy
it at first, but it is astonishing how fond one gets of the
far west, when one is used to it.
Members of Parliament, both in the States and
Commonwealth, boast of the personal friendliness
that is becoming more and more a characteristic
of their hearing towards one another outside Par-
liament walls. The boast, when their habits of
speech inside the walls of Parliament are con-
sidered, really demonstrates their political and
moral decadence. If members on the floor of the
House upbraid opponents in disgraceful terms and
embrace them out of doors, there is utter want of
sincerity either in the speech or in the embrace.
G. H. Reid, in addressing the House on the elec-
toral distributions, charged the Government with,
among a lot of similar language, “unparalleled
treachery,” “a fraud upon the Constitution,”
being “inspired clearly by motivesof self-interest,”
“ a combination to secure unworthy ends,” and so
on. If words carry a meaning, there is enough in
those quoted to create between honorable men a
gulf that nothing could bridge. But only a few
weeks before, and even since, the same Reid
assured gatherings that his esteem for members of
the Government, as “men of honor and dis-
tinguished abilities,” is lofty and sincere. The
difference between G. H. Reid in bis screaming
vituperative flights and the same man in his
periods of fawning personal adulation is so great
that his statements can’t both be true. Either
the accusatory bravado style in Parliament should
be put down or the bravo’s cringing adulation
when he accosts the “unparalleled traitor” as a
friend outside the House should be suppressed.
“ Woodsey ” writes :—
I ran against the Salvation Army curse again the other
night—one is always running against the curse of that
loathsome, red-shirted, hook-nosed fraud and hypo aisv.
It was a woman following the oldest profession in the
world, and I dug out her story. It was very short.
There were five orphaned sisters with a speck of money
among them, and they started a laundry. It got on ail
right till “ William Booth, trading as the Salvation
Army ” started a laundry also in the same district.
William Booth didn’t require to pay his hands any wages ;
his laundry was Worked by fallen women .whom the red-
shirted show Lad “rescued ” and their sole remuneration
Was victuals, prayer and tracts. William Booth didn’t
need to feed his girls ; victuals were collected from the
silly charitable “ to aid the noble work.” William Booth,
as a “ charitable institution,” was free from the operation
of the Factories Act, and got concessions as regards
water rates. William Booth got a Government subsidy.
So William Booth was able to cut rates below what any
other establishment could live on, and yet make large
profits for William Booth. His canvassers pervaded the
neighborhood and urged people in the name of piety
and charity to send their “wash” to Booth’s cheap
sweating den, and they did. So the private laundries
which paid wages and didn’t snuffle and didn’t get a
Government subsidy were killed off. Two of the sisters
took to domestic service. One became a barmaid. Two,
when their little business was sold up as the result of
Salvation Army competition, cursed Booth and all his
hypocrisies and took to the streets. The Army rescues a
few fallen women, and makes more.


The great mental struggle which took place in the
N.S.W Assembly over clause XI. of the Land
Bill, represented a manful effort to decide on the
best way of getting a quart out of a pint pot
without damaging the pot or spilling any of the
quart, and owing to the limitations of the pot the
quart wasn’t extracted satisfactorily. The
Assembly wanted to find out a way to do the
impossible. It sought to discover some method
by which it could put a poor man on to a stretch
of poor Jand.in which he would have no interest,
except the right to stay on the land so long as he
paid his rent if he happened to be a leaseholder,
or the right to own the land when he was able to
pay for it if he chanced to be a conditional
purchaser. Then it wanted to discover how
this poor man could borrow money on the
security of the land which he didn’t
own, and how the lender, if that impro-
bable person should be found, could foreclose
in order to recover his money without dis-
turbing the principle that the owner of the land
must live thereon. It was a hopeless problem.
The Advances to Settlers Department lias been
trying to solve the question of lending money to
the poor man on poor land that he doesn’t own,
with the inevitable result; it couldn’t lend nearly
enough money to do the aggregate poor man any
good, and it seems to have lost a lot of the money
it did lend. There were vigorous demands in
some quarters for a State Bank to solve the
difficulty, but 20 State banks wouldn’t solve it,
though 40 State banks might go broke over it.
There is no way under Heaven by which a poor
man can be put on poor land for which he pays
the State, perhaps, £10 as a first instalment, and
then be lent £100 with any certainty of the lender
being repaid. The remedy lies in not having
such an awful number of poor men.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is, everywhere.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
*Bh Woundi that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves tfie impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies ali
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. - 1 do ?’t «ay perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Bend atonce for
ALBERT’S GRABSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Lee,,
Housemaid’* Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, lumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
I?*®™?.?’ i ". Qr l at Britain, 1/lid. per box. Prepared by
ALBLUI /3, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents *. JLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for th e registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green label on each box. (Regd. copyrightj.
ARE YOU A STRENGTH
Guilder ?
It is bad enough to suffer the direct pains
of specific illness, but it is far worse to have
to endure the weakness and debility which
come after. Specific fevers, inflammatory
diseases, in departing always confer legacies
of weakness. This weakness, often called
debility, is the failure of the power of the
individual to perform the ordinary exertions,
whether of duty or of pleasure in which one
habitually engages. Debility really spells ill-
ness, because it renders you again liable to
some specific malady. Always build up the
strength.
ARE YOU A STRENGTH
? Do not go on in a feeble,
half-hearted physical condition, it is a mis-
take-that may cost you hours of needless
pain. It is so easy to avoid pain by keeping
well. Be a strength builder ! The shortest,
surest way to regain strength, to prevent
liability to renewed attacks, whether in
grown people or children, is by the use of
Scott’s Emulsion. Don’t forget that what
will build you up after an illness will build
you up before and so prevent illness. If,
therefore, you are weak, start at once a
course of
SCOTT'S EMULSION. Il is the
greatest possible mistake to make light of
slight illnesses, as they are the precursors of
more serious illnesses. Therefore take Scott’s
Emulsion promptly, because it will cure you
of your weakness just the same as it has
cured thousands of people in other parts of
the world. You have only one precaution to
take; and that is to see that on the wrapper
of the bottle there is a picture of a man carry-
ing a. big cod-fish; if that cod-fish is not
there,-you are not getting what we promise
you—a cure! You can obtain a sample of
Scott’s Emulsion, and the choic st children’s
booklet of the year, “A Bunch of Hoses,”
beautifully printed in colours, by sending sd.
to Scott & Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, and mentioning this paper. All
ehemi.its sell Scott’s Emulsion.
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
THE KIDNEY AND LIVER SPECIFIC.
ITS POWER EXPLAINED.
It has been * source of wonder to many how any one medicine can possibly cure so many
disorders of apparently diverse origin, but to the scientific mind the curative properties of Warner’s
oafe Cure supply no element of mystery. Warner’s Safe Cure is simply the result of years of earnest
research a remedy which possessed the power to restore to health and activity both the kidneys
and the liver. Physicians were aware of the fact that, so long as the kidneys and the liver were
working strongly, nine-tenths of the ailments with which the human race is afflicted could not exist.
The difficulty was the finding of a safe and speedy medium which would act directly upon the kidneys
and liver in such a manner that their health and vigour should be restored when once they had
become either weak or diseased. Patient investigation terminated in the discovery of the medicine
now known throughout the civilised world as Warner’s Safe Cure. This remarkable medicine
possesses a. curious and stimulating effect upon the kidneys and liver. Not only does it re-impart a
healthy action to those vital organs, but the stimulus is permanent. The importance of this great
discovery will be fully realised if the functions of the kidneys and liver are considered.
THE KIDNEYS
filter from the blood of the average person about three pints of water every day. In this water should
be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten or twelve grains, in weight, of uric acid, and other animal and
mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. If the kidneys arc weak or
diseased a portion of this solid refuse matter remains in the system, and becomes actively poisonous.
Minute crystals of uric acid form in the blood and are deposited in the joints and tissues of the body,
causing the acute pain experienced when we have
RHEUMATISM, GOUT,
Lumbago, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Sec. Sometimes the uric crystals aggregate in the kidneys and
form Gravel and Stones, and cause Kidney Colic, and Irritation and Inflan mation of the
Bladder.
THE LIVER.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the liver and that of the kidneys that it is
almost impossible for either of them to be deranged without the other being directly affected. The
liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually made from the
blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood,
converts it into another form and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood as the
latter needs enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is com-
pletely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are
useful nb longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion, Bilious-
ness, Jaundice, Anaemia, Sick Headache, Blood Disorders, and Debility.
Warner’s Safe Cure cures all the disorders named safely, surely, completely, and permanently,
simply because it restores to vigorous health and activity the kidneys and liver, and enables them to
efficiently perform their function of removing from the system the uric and biliary poisons which
cause the sickness.
Mr*. May Edwards, of Joseph-street, Balmain, Sydney, N.S-W., says:—
“I had kidney disease, which was brought on by a cold, for nearly eight years, causing great
Fain across the back and loins and making me sick at the stomach. I could neither eat nor sleep.
had swellings in my ankles and pains in my legs, and was so ill that I had to hire a girl to do
my work. Reading in a book accounts of Warner’s Safe Cure, I decided to try the effects of this
medicine in my own case, and found immediate relief. The swelling left my ankles. I could eat
well and sleep well again. I took altogether eight bottles, which I procured from Mr. G. L.
Harvison, Chemist, Western Road. I never suffer at all now, and am really and truly cured.
The medicine did me all the good in the world.”
The commonest first system of kidney disorder is
PAIN IN THE BACK.
A surer test is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass,
and let it stand until the next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a brick-dust like sediment,
if particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, then no time must be lost in resorting
to Warner’s Safe Cure for aid, or Bright’* Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more
painful illness will result.
A treatise containing full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and accounts of many
remarkable cures, will be sent free by H. H. Warner and Co., Limited, Melbourne, Vie.
GOOD
HAIR FOR ALL!
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and (riving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling- off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., 5s Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
gar For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Som. & 06.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MAOKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane :Mr GORDON r,.,,.
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and *
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
™ 8 CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
â
is equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME.
THOUSANDS GLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT!
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA BRONCHITIS
COI U DS i™s and f ™ Y TROUBLES; INFLuffil;
eurlis, rEVERS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist'
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now?
h eing used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30/- to 84/-.
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
I Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd . (Dept. 8)
‘(Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
ENO’S INVALUABLE IN ALL
Functional ‘FRUIT DERANGEMENTS
OF THE LIVER. SALT.’
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c EVERYWHERE.
Interesting reading from Sydney Telegraph,
headed “ Irrigation by Private Enterprise
Before a meeting of the People’s Reform League last
night, Mr; J. H. Cardew read a most interesting paper on
irrigation, in which he urged that the only hope of grap-
pling with this important problem was to permit private
enterprise to step in. He advocated the establishment of
a hydrographical bureau, for the purpose of affording a
complete system of river gauging, rainfall measurement,
evaporation, and other observations ; for the compilation
of maps showing irrigable areas, and to demonstrate the
possibilities of irrigation ; that the State should construct
all reservoirs for the maintenance and regulation of the
flow in the rivers. . . and that the State should pass such
legislation as may be necessary for the purpose of. aiding
the creation of corporations, or co-operative societies, or
trusts, for the organisation of irrigation districts to
undertake schemes of supply.
How the proud Private Enterprise man begs for
State aid, and demands that State Socialism shall
be used for his benefit. He wants the State to d.o
all the profitless work of collecting scientific data
and to go to vast expense to regulate the flow of
rivers, so as to give lazy, shiftless Private Enter-
prise the water and the information to irrigate
with. Then it is to pass legislation to facilitate
Private Enterprise in forming itself into a com-
pany. Then Private Enterprise will distribute
the water supplied to it by the State, and take the
profits, and brag about how much better Private
Enterprise does these tilings than State manage-
ment. Is there anybody who begs more brazenly
for State aid than the Private Enterprise man ?
«—:
Superintendent Larkin, chief of Sydney city
police, tells the Assembly’s select committee on
gambling that, if the disease flourishes in Sydney,
it is mainly because the force cannot get satisfac-
tory backing from the Bench. It is an old com-
plaint, and as good as it is old, that the courts
won’t imprison ; they fine, and the game pays
well enough to make the fine in most cases a
matter of small consequence. But even the fines
under the Betting Houses Suppression Act are
on the down-grade. Ten years ago —in 1893—360
prosecutions landed £l4BB in fines. That was
equal to about £4 3s. a time all round. Next year
the average was just about £4; in 1895 it was
£4 Bs. ;in 1896, =£s 18s.; and in 1897 it went up
to £ll 17s. This increased severity apparently
did what it was intended to do; anyhow, whereas
in the previous three yeajs the prosecutions
averaged 304 a year, in the next three they
averaged only 115. By 1900, in fact, they had got
down to 61. But then a change set in. Instead
of averaging £ll odd, the fines in 1901 averaged
just under £3. From 61 prosecutions in 1900
(following the heavy fines), they jumped to 302 in
1902 (following the light fines). The increase
might reasonably have been expected to have
been followed by severer punishments; but it
wasn’t, and the average fine for the past couple
of years has come down to below £3. This year’s
figure is, indeed, the lowest on record; and,
naturally enough, the year’s prosecutions pro-
mise to be about the highest. The real problem
in connection with gambling suppression seems,
therefore, to be merely how to get magistrates to
do their duty.
+.
9.M. Herald, talking of industrial conditions,
severely lectures the Australian working man on
the sinfulness of rapacity. It regards as of
“supreme importance” what Mr. J. H. Pat-
terson said “at the half-yearly meeting of a
Westralian gold-ming co. in Melbourne on Tues-
day—that, while the men had been well paid all
along, only per cent, had been paid upon the
capital invested over seven years ago.” But if
what happens in most cases happened in this case,
then about one-fourth at most of the “capital
invested ” went into the mine ; the other three-
fourths went to the people who sold it. Mr.
Patterson is chairman also of the Broken Hill
Prop., which has a capital of £384,000, and which
has a present market value of about a million and
a half; yet all the capital put into that
mine was about £15,000. The mine has,
however, to struggle to pay interest on the million
and a half, and not on the £15,000, and wages are
fixed accordingly ; and when somebody points out
that the thing into which £15,000 has been put
isn’t earning fair interest on the million and a half
“ invested in it,” the Herald tells the workman
not to be so rapacious. And the old lady, no doubt,
in her utter inability to see that there is any side
to a case except the rich man’s side, firmly
believes she is talking good Christian doctrine.
♦
“T.5.H.,” from the West, writes:—
It looks as though there were likely to be a movement
of population from the Wentworth district of western
N.S. W. into the Victorian Mallee lands across the river.
The Victorian Mallee leases fall due in December, and
Taverner, Minister for Lands, has declared his intention
of resuming them for such closer settlement as they are
capable of. N.S.W. Minister Crick’s nose is now decidedly
out of joint, in the estimation of the Western District
homestead lessees. Not much more than 12 months ago
Wentworth welcomed him with banners and arches,
and smote the tin dinner plate of daily life
with the waddy of applause. But all that has
changed into angry feelings of resentment. Home-
stead lessees now feel that the squatter has had the
best of them in Western district land matters. Under
the Lands Act of 1884, which was the beginning of the
homestead leasehold system, the squatters were allowed
to throw open for resumption just such portions of the
runs as suited them, and these were naturally not the
best. As a consequence of this many of the homestead
leaseholders have had to settle on land away from a river
frontage and without permanent water. They hoped for
a remedy from Minister Crick ; and have hoped in vain.
The homestead lessee has now no chance in the West.
+ •
The reasonably prosperous farmers and pastoral
ists of Charlton (Vic.) are bailing up the Treasury
again for “assistance.” Through their Agricul-
tural and Pastoral Society they are pleading tear-
fully to have their manures brought to them by
the railways free. At their latest begging
demonstration various of them waxed eloquent
oyer their contention that “as manures are
stimulants to cereal .production, and therefore'to
increased railway traffic, the department ought to
carry them free.” The fact that Vic. railways
already shift the cereals at a loss, and pander to
the landlord in many other ways, only seems to
excite him to clamor for more alms, every time a
new way of doing it strikes him. It is confidently
expected that it will soon dawn on some
member of the Charlton A. and P. Society that,
as farmers are stimulants to increased cereal
production, and therefore to increased- rail-
way traffic, the Department ought to carry far-
mers free.” Of course, it’s quite plain to the
Charlton A. and P. Society that, if the Victorian
railways will only go in for enough free carriage of
everything the farmer wants or produces, and if
the Government can be Kyabramnied into cutting
down everybody’s wages to make up for it, and
then, if pressure can be brought on Irvine to
makeit piain to him that the erection of a huge
State laboratory for the manufacture of artificial
manures to be distributed free would be a fine
large, popular national undertaking, and also that
this could easily be done by cutting some more off
everybody*; wages, and sacking as many as pos-
sible, so that the farmers may be able to get
laborers for their mere food and clothes-well
then, there would be really very little for the poor
tarmer to clamor for, unless it were free drinks


George Reid s ‘‘‘great ” speech at Parra-
matta, on Monday, was practically a howl on one
subject only—4he alleged gerrymandering of the
Federal electorates. And as to the fact that Reid
was the man who introduced gerrymandering in
Australia, and as to his manipulation of the
N.S.W. electorates, under exactly similar circum-
stances to those now existing, the impudent poli-
tical fraud didn’t say a word—as usual, "But a
streak of unctuous piety was Sandwiched ridicu-
lously into the proceedings. There was pre-
liminary music ; then a parson prayed—wonder if
that parson really knew Reid ; and there was a
collection (£3 155.) Some day the Rev. Gsbrge
Reid will Yes-No accompanied by incense.
A notable development in elevator-con-
struction is the conversion, by Easton and Co. of
London (Sydney agent, R. A. Ilervey, 171
Clarence-street), of the Easton Hydraulic Lift
into the most up-to date type of Electric Lift.
The cost of current used by the new Lift is, on
the testimony of the Guardian Assurance Co., less
than one-fifth of the cost of water used by the
hydraulic arrangement.*
The Federal electors should begin to think
hard about the approaching elections. To help one
in sustained hard thinking—not hard drinking—the
best of all friends is D.C.L. Whisky. If all the
male electors of the Commonwealth put them-
selves on a strict D.C.L regime, and give their
minds to a careful selection of candidates three
months before the event this country would be
well-governed hereafter. D.C.L. for drinking and
thinking purposes.*
PRINCESS'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING. THIRD WEEK in Melbourne, Mr. J.
0. Williamson’s New English Comedy Co. in
ARE YOU A MASON?
Introducing the Famous English Comedian,- Mr. GEORGE
CIDDENS.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. ... C. Simonsens.
' EVERY EVENING, and THIRD WEEK of
Bland Holt’s Famous Dramatic Company in a Revised Re-
production of the Exquisite Melodramatic Spectacle,
THE GOLDEN LADDER,
by Geo. Sims and Wilson Barrett.
Prices—3s. .6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s. •
Amusements.
yOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Mr. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
WESTMINSTER ABBEY
GLEE AND CONCERT PARTY
■i (from London)
in a'Unique Programme of the National Music of England,
Scotland, Ireland and Wales, comprising
GLEES, MADRIGALS, CATCHES & BALLADS.
TWO MORE NIGHTS ONLY,
TO-MORROW (FRIDAY) and SATURDAY NIGHTS
WT" Entire Change of Programme Nightly.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
THE NEW HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
■ Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Famous and Ever Welcome
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in the New English Comedy Opera, entitled,
MY LADY MOLLY.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 19, THE TOREADOR.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Under the Direction of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of the London and Sydney Success,
A LIFE’S REVENGE^
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 19, ALFRED DAMPIER, the
Most Popular Actor in Australia, will make his Reappear-
ance in Sydney in ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling's.
JHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Sole Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSCROVE.
THE MOST DELIGHTFUL EVENT OF THE
SYDNEY SEASON.
Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S COMPANY in Shakespeare’s
Enchanting Comedy,
TWELFTH 3XTIC3-lIT,
OR, WHAT YOU WILL.
Prices as Usual. Plan Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Under the Management of
Messrs. GEO WILLOUGHBY and EDWIN GEACH.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 19,
START OF THE SEASON OF LAUGHTER,
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY AND COMPANY
in
MISTAKES WILL HAPPEN.
PRICES--55., 35., 2s. & Is. A. COWAN, Manager.
OHILUP PARK, COLLEGE STREET.
EVERY NIGHT, at o’clock.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.45,
Average Attendance over 4000 a day.
w
I
R
T
H
S’
NEW
PROGRAMME.
NEW
ARTISTES.
NEW
SENSATIONS.
c
I
R
C
U
S
See the Wonderful
SIX AUSTRALIAN BRUMBIES.
MAJOR, THE HAUTE ECOLE MUSTANG.
LEOPOLDS, CHAMPION TRIPLE-BAR ACROBATS.
; ABRACS, COMICAL CHAIR BALANCERS. ' *
Popular Tariff—3s., - 25., Is. ; Boxes, JJL r Plan at Paling’s
and Circus Offices. Children Half-Price to Matinees.
Q E N T E N A R Y HALL,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
TUESDAY, SEPT. 22,
GRAND VOCAL RECITAL
, , by the Eminent Mfezzo-Soprano,
MRS. FITZ-6ERALP.
From the QUEEN’S HALL and ST. JAMES’ HALL,
LONDON.
Plan at Paling’s, Sept. 12. J. EDWARD SYKES.
■ YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
"■ Lessee .. .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
Every evening,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, Headed by MISS EUGENE DUGGAN,
in the Powerfully Written Play,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY,
by Charles Darrell, Esq.
Prices—3/-, 2/-and.l/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
the MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL living pictures.
KING STREET ARCADE
and 400 GEORGE STREET*
Always on View. Admission FREE.
Ti V O iTI THEATR E, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of HILL and SYLVAINY, the World’s
Greatest and Most Sensational Trick Cyclist's,
Success of Mr. W. C. FIELDS.
Miss FRANCES LESLIE, Mr. BOBBY WATSON, Mr.
EDWARD BLACK, Miss MAUD PERMAN,
Miss CONNIE HAMILTON, Miss MAGGIE FRASER,
Mr. HUGH, HUXHAM, Mr. H. BARRINGTON, Mr,
SAM. WILSON, Mr. GEO. SCOTT, Mr. HENRY DAVIS,
THE TWO COLLIERS, and all our Great Co.
OP ER A HOUSE, MELB OUR N E.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
A Furore Created Nightly bv
MADAME MARZELLA,
Queen of the Feathered World.
FREDERICK
H ALLEN
}
and
{
MOLLY
FULLER
DAN CRAWLEY, London’s Quaint Comedian.
WILL WHITBURN, RUBY CRAWFORD, LILIAN
BISHOP, CLARENCE SISTERS, ERNEST SULLIVAN.
MAUD FANING, LES WARTON, ARTHUR ELLIOTT.
Her majesty’s theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. BEERBOHM TREE’S CO., including
MIBB MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT
in TOLSTOY’S
RESURRECTION,
First Time in Australia.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 103 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
58., P. 0.0. or stamps.
S. RECKNA CEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) has been doing well
lately, and this month’s 6d. dividend is the fifth for the
year, and constitutes a record, with the exception of 1897
when the co. paid 4s from gold won from the oxidised
zone. There has lately been a falling off in returns the
figures for the last three months reading 1337, 1248 and
11610 z., but an improvement may be expected soon. The
mine never looked better ; and the directors, who are
h?f nSer wh^ e v£ aVe rec 1 e n t v ! y determined to launch out a
. When the new 10-head of heavy stamps start, a
rise in returns and revenue may be looked for, though
the average will suffer. • s “
* * * *
Lady Shenton, Menzies (W.A.), during its vear
l 80 e OO0 Ma The 3 nrofi? at fr 16 ’n 90t;^n6 f ° r 23 > 0600z -> worth
fM’, * he Profit, at l ter allowing for depreciation, was
only £13,200, making the costs work out at over £4 a ton
So iil h t L CUrren ' y , ear , With a credit balance of
£20,300, but the mine is looking so poor in the lower
levels that this will probably all be required to further
tnnl°nf gr . round reserves only tot up some 5000
S° f * 7dwt ‘ ° re > wh 'ch, on past showing, is an unpay-
able average. Manager Rayfield has had a very hard row
to hoe for some time, and is likely to have a still harder
one in the future.
* * * *
Menzies Alpha (W.A.), which adjoins the Lady
the! south, managed to come out with a profit
of £1230, after writing- off £4500 from development
account and allowing for depreciation. Co. is in 120,000
shares, of which 100,002 are ordinary and 19,998 prefer-
ence. The latter are entitled to a non-eumulative div.
j- P. e . r cen k- On this occasion these shares get their
d 'L , Thls absorbs £999 18s., and the small balance of
£230 is carried forward. Since the financial year closed
the mine has been turning out a fair.amount of gold, but
the chutes are so short and the lode so patchy and
irregular that it can never be relied on. The co. has now
been going for upwards of seven years and been once
reconstructed. Ordinary shareholders have got no
return, and are hardly likely to get any. This mine is
run by Rayfield of the Shenton, and the working's of the
two are connected.
* * * *
Princess Royal, Norseman (W. A-), should absorb
the Central, as proposed ; this would indefinitely lengthen
the life of the mine. Manager Trelogr maintains that the.
reef in the northern portion of the property doesn’t dip
into, the Central till a depth of 1240 ft. and, in the southern
section, of 840 ft., but naturally the manager isn’t going
to cry stinking: fish till he knows the fish is decomposed.
In any case, the reef is so flat that a new shaft will have
to be sunk, as nearly 600 ft. will have to be crosscut at the
500 ft. level before the reef is tapped, and at each
additional level the position will be still worse. The pur-
chase price of 6000 shares for the Central seems very
moderate, all things considered, and the proposed
increase of capital to 120,000 shares ean’t be called exces-
sive. The £21,000, raked 'into the coffers of the co. by
issuing the- 14,000 surplus shares at 30s. each, wiit
enable the co. to sink a new main shaft without stopping
divs., and will place the co. in a splendid position
financially. If the co. were on the London market it
would probably be capitalised at double the amount.
* * * *
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), according to
half-yearly -report, is avery one-horse show, and, had the
co. not acquired the South Gippsland, at Vosperton,
the outlook would be black indeed. The South Gipps-
land property is developing splendidly, the reef all
through averaging about 2ft. in thickness, though
it varies ~ from a few inches to a few feet. During
the past half-year the co. worked at a loss of £lB6B odd, '
but, in the previous balance-sheet, the cost of wages,
stores, &c., totting up £3742, at the South Gippsland
leases was shown as an asset, and this amount has appar- .
entl.v since been written off. The co. had £2365 cash in
hand on July 1, and, as the South Gippsland concern,
when the mill and cyanide plant get in full swing, should
show a good lhargin, the co.’s next balance-sheet ought
to have a more rosy hue.
* * *
Divs. declared by Queensland Menzies, 6d. ;
Brown Hill Extended, ss. ; and Menzies Alpha preference,
Is., bring up the total'divs. of W.A. mines for September
to £134,924 1 Bs. For the whole of September last year
divs. only came to £72,860, so that this year shows a very
marked increase.
* • •
Cumberland, Norseman (W.A.), mill should get
going by the end of the month, and it will quickly prove
whether the pessimistic Capt. Pleitner, or thb optimistic
manager Bufkitt is to be top dog. The former says the
reef is barely 2ft. wide, half of this being mullock and
averaging not more than lOdwt. ; the latter asserts that
the reef runs from 2ft. 6in. to 4ft., averging 3ft., and
easily worth an oz. The mine is only being opened up at
150 ft., and as the concern has been going for as long as,
or longer thgn, .most of the Kalgoorlie - mines, the
management must have been suffering from that tired
feeling so prevalent -in the West. From the Benson’
leases 4307 tons have been treated for 42590 z. So, if one
can judge from past performances, Capt. Pleitner’s
jeremiad will get a nasty knock.
* • * •
Associated Northern (W.A.) management must
have besn extremely lax, if nothing worse, judging from
the disclosures recently made. It turns out that the
dri'l. which was alleged to have cut a payable lode on the
Iron Monarch, cut a pure duffer, and it is suggested now
that the eppe may have been ” accidentally salted.” It
must be very galling for buyers of Northern Blocks
Syndicate scrip at 4s. to ss. to learn that the 20ft. lode
worth 18dwt..was a pure myth. Good progress is long
made with the erection of the treatment plant, and it
should not be long in getting to work on what ora there
is in sight. The sinking of the main shaft is about com-
pleted, and, if there is any rich Ore at a depth of 1050 ft.,
as alleged, it should soon be found- Mr. George Roberts
has had a very rough time of It since he took over the
management and must regret ever having tackled the
contract. '
« * * ■ * -' ■ *
E. and 0.E.: Fremantle" (W.A.) is the great
fraud and robbery port of the Commonwealth. The other
day French liner, Armand Behic, : put in ; did not go to
wharf, but tied up to a buoy in the stream ; discharged 14
passengers and five tons of cargo; embarked six passengers
and no cargo ; and for a few hours’ Use of this bit of the
Indian Ocean the Fremantle Harbor Trust charged £930
in fees. That is equal to a duty of nearly Is. Bd. per lb.
on every item of cargo 1 mded. And the greedy mercan-
tile set which levies this stupendous tax on foreign
vessels complains bitterly that if the same ships are made
to pay Australian wages while in Australian waters it will
drive them, away altogether. If they are driven away
they must yearn for a chance to bombard Fremantle
before they go.
* » * • .
“True Bill ”: Prospecting isn’t what it was.
Was out recently prospecting with a new mate, and came
across a gully that had a bit of likely-looking wash in it;
sent mate With a dish of dirt to try at some water lower
do vn. In about a quarter of an hour he came back
crying, “ We’ve struck it'; we’ve struck it.” “ What did-
you get ? ” I asked. “About a quarter of a grain, all nice
coarse gold, too .” ® _ *
At Poverty Point.
e,lie . S l ewarfc> . after sailing for the West, sent a £3O
cneque to her solicitor in Melbourne for the endowment
a „ Sweet Cot ” at the local Children’s Hospital,
it will soon be generally recognised that Nell Gwynne
was an earnest young .Christian-spinster-whose platonic
attentions to Charles 11. were inspired by the purest
philanthropic motives.
Max Beerbohm is not a well-informed person. He
recently stated in the Saturday Review he had never
heard that any “ colonist ” had ever attempted to write a
play. What about Haddon Chambers, George Darrell,
and half-a-dozen other Australian playwrights ? And
doesn’t Dan Barry write his own plays? If he doesn’t,
how does such magnificent badness come about?
“ J-A.0.” : Re Lalla Miranda (B. 10/9/’O3),- Her father,
David Miranda, was a teacher of singing in Melbourne
away back in the ’7o’s. He was a little, man, rather
taller than an envelope, whose carriage gave one the
idea of seven feet. His nephew, a frequent speculator in
more or less successful theatrical enterprises, looked
upon him as closely related to the Deity. He, the
nephew, one day remarked to me that there was a very
good singing part, Francis Osbaldiston, in “ Rob Roy.”
I replied, “Of course there is ! I heard Sims Reeves in
it.” “Sims Reeves!” he exclaimed; “why, iny uncle
has sung it! ” And then, for the first time, I realised
how small a circumstance was Sims Reeves compared
to David Miranda’s nephew’s uncle.
J. A. E. Malone, business manager of the George
Edwardes Co., which visited Australia with “A Gaiety
Girl ”in 1895, has lately been married. When that com-
bination was booming ip these latitudes Malone was
reported to be Grace Palotta’s husband, but on her
second visit to Australia the lady repudiated the impeach-
ment, stating that she never had a husband.
Mr. J. C. Williamson announces in Her Majesty’s
Theatre programme that “ access to all parts of the
auditorium is gained by very little exertion.” It seems
to many people that the exertion required to earn 6s.
grows greater every day.
“ Petramos” : It was during the first performance in
Adelaide of “The Face at the Window.” The villain had
(as usual) lured the virtuous female to the Rogues’
Retreat. “Let me go!” shrieked the virtuous female.
Neyaire !” cried the foreign skunk ; “you shall not
leave this place until you and I have been united in the
bonds of matrimony.” Then a bibulous individual in the
two bob stalls shouted, “ Qui’ right,” and cheered enthu-
siastically. Hearing the top-hatted villain offering
matrimony to the virtuous female in his power was some-
thing so unusual that the bibulous one had after that to
be held down to prevent him applauding the villain all
the time.
“ E.F.” (in reply to “Adelaide ”) : Joe Wilson is a mem-
ber of Frank Thornton’s co. He played a “ Test Match”
as curtain-raiser to farcical comedies. His wife played
the plump slavey who chooses a husband from a soldier,
sailor, and policeman. Wilson took the three,characters.
Harry Bruce, a South African manager who seems able
to give Dan Barry points, publishes this, among other
quaint statements in his programme :—“ ‘ Snares of
London ’ is a sensational drama built round a simple
human story. To show what pains are taken that every
detail may .be correct, the fish-shells—viz., whelks and
mussels—are real (purified by Jeyes’ Fluid), and have
actually been used in London, and pedestrians in London
have eaten the contents of the shells off a stall similar to
that which we portray.” The spectacle of a simple,
honest manager who wouldn’t deceive anyone even about
the whelks and mussels, naturally appeal’s to the public.
Juliet Sydney, daughter of the only Bill Holloway, was
married early in July last, at Capetown, to Dr. Victor
Stoney, of Kimberley.
Michael Joseph, Bill Anderson’s white-haired manager,
took unto himself a wife at Wellington (M.L.) on the 3rd
inst, The lady, Miss Ethel Gough, is youngest daughter
of Wm. Gough, at one time a flourishing publican at the
Towers (Queensland), and now proprietor of Wellington
Commercial Hotel. Also the young lady has wealth of
her own, is pretty, and an artist of some ability. The
luck of the Hebrew !
Harry Roberts and Gaston Mervale, well remembered
in Australia, are just now members of the same American
company, playing in “Du Barry” at Belasco’s Theatre,
New York. Our old friend Kyrle Bellew, too, was lately
ip New York playing Romeo and cutting the same ultra-
romantic figure as of yore. But his voice is failing him. '
.That’s the penalty of speaking with a borrowed voice
instead of your own. Bellew imitated the tones and
tricks of elocution that came fairly natural to Irving, and
the time has now arrived when the people at the back of
the gallery exhort'him to “ speak up,” and he can’t speak
up.
•Spring”: Women, like wolves, hunt in packs
Wirths’ Circus recently reared itself in a park close
up to St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney. T’other afternoon,
a pack of matinee women awaited admission when a
murky funeral came, like a black cloud, into the view. The
pack paused irresolute and put its bob back into its purse.
After the coffin had faded away the pack grasped its bob
again and pressed towards the ticket office. Then a
gorgeous wedding, with flowers, footmen, and frock-
coats, and a vision in white drove up to the cathe-
dral. This was too much for the women. One gave a
despairing shriek and started towards the cathedral.
The whole crowd, hot and flurried, scudded after. When
it came pounding back the best circus seats had been
snapped lip by mere men, and the strong man, the fat
lady, and the sore-eared tumbler lost all their charm.
Figaro’s special commissioner in America (and the
Parisians know Something of dancing) reckons that
America is going to re-vitalise the art of dancing. “On
the American stage, everyone knows how to dance. The
American chorus girl has resuscitated the art of move-
ment—of making the whole body speak with a grace, a
charm, a seduction which are incomparable. Tne com-
bination of song and dance has made the American style
a new national art, which possesses the necessary elements
for becoming a classic art, and replacing that which has
reigned for centuries, and which is now becoming com-
monplace. . . . You will see next year an intelligent
director bringing to the boulevards the American chorus
girl of the subtle hands and agile feet.”
Charles Saunders, the fat young tenor, who came to
Australia for his health some ten years ago and warbled
occasionally, is nowadays making his mark as an
•oratorio singer in England. Saunders once or twice
took the place of the Italian tenor, Giraud, during the
first season of “Cavalleria Rusticana” when Williamson
and Musgrove staged it at Melbourne Princess’s in
conjunction with the Blue Ballet. O, for another Blue
Ballet and some more Mdlle. Bartho !
Bananaland is just now witnessing the
marvellous spectacle of the Brisbane Courier
barracking for a new party of which the backbone
and a lot of the forefront shall be Labor repre-
sentatives. To such a pitch can hatred of a
coming journalistic rival drive an infuriated
morning paper,
The suburbanites who were attracted into
Melbourne last Friday night by a red glare in the
sky got a sensation. At the wharf, they found
that the fore-hold of the Pilbarra was a mass of
flames, fed by nitre, general merchandise, and a
few cases of explosives. While the crowd looked
on, the head and arm of a trapped pantryman was
thrust out of a forecastle porthole. The crowd
promptly rushed to the point of anticipated crema-
tion, and declined to shift for either firemen or
police—not until a squad of mounted troopers
arrived could they be driven back. Meanwhilg,
a level-headed constable got a couple of axes
and started to hew a way through the deck—
luckily it was a .wooden one. One axe-handle
immediately broke, but the other stood, while
policeman Lang and his mate hacked away for
their lives—and the life of the man inside. He was
just able to grab a lowered rope and hang on till
he was hauled through the ragged hole, then he
fainted away. While the axemen were chopping
with sparks and smoke swirling around them, the
units at the back of the crowd insanely pressed
forward, while those in front fought to get back
from the heat and the Yarra, and occasionally the
booming of Qxplosives .down in the hold started a
fresh pnniip. It was an ideal scene for an
Anderson melodrama, but for the half-fried
pantryman and the singed policemen it was a
crowded hour.
Sale of Phil May’s Drawing's.
To-morrow, Friday, at 11 o’clock, the auctioneers
(Walter Bradley & Co ) will sell The Bulletin’s
splendid series of original drawings by Phil May.
The collection is on view to-day for the last
time at the sale-rooms, 324 George-street, Sydney.
Such a fine set of examples of black-and-white
art, by the most brilliant draughtsman of his
generation, has never before been brought together
in Australia.
Phil May joined the staff of The Bulletin in
1885, at the age of 21, and for two and a-lialf
, years remained in Australia. His style, already
. formed, whs in this period developed and assured.
His eye for a likeness and for character, and the
dexterity and decision with which he set down
his impressions, became remarkable. In technical
quality of draughtsmanship he never surpassed
the drawings made at this time.
Nearly every notable Australian personage of
the ’eighties was a subject for May’s pen. His
drawings might form no inconsiderable contribu-
tion to a National portrait gallery. Numerous
political cartoons represent a class of work which
he did not attempt elsewhere. To his Australian
Eeriod, also, belong some of the best among his
umourous pictures.
Phil May was the founder of a school in black-
and-white, as Sir Joshua Reynolds, for example,
was the founder of a school in painting. His
talent influenced others in a remarkable degree.
Unlike some artists, he had the good fortune to
see his work appreciated in his life-time. He has
been appreciated no higher than his desert. His
original drawings possess a quality which none of
his imitators has matched. As time passes, many
of them will be more and more valued as examples
of modern illustration.
What English and American Critics say of
Phil May’s Work.
Whistler wrote, in a letter printed in the
catalogue of the May exhibition, 1895:—“ The
exhibition you are going to have will certainly be
most interesting, and I wi*h I could see it; for I
take a great delight in Phil May. Certainly his
work interests me far more than that of any man
since Charles Keene, from whom he is quite
distinct. There is a brightness and daintiness in
what he does, combined with knowledge, These,
together with the fact that in his drawings the
wit is the artist’s, makes a vast difference between
him and his contemporaries.”
Hubert Herkomer, R.A., said, in opening an
exhibition of Charles Keene’s drawings:—“ln
his own day Keene stood alone. He has been
followed by a great rival in his own particular
line. Phil May has gifts as great as those of
Keene. He is the greatest living master of ex-
pression in a few lines. I don’t know Phil May—
I have never met him—but I think his art is
marvellous.”
Charles Dana Gibson said : —“ If a man’s bad,
I can tell you why he’s bad ; but when he’s as
good as Phil May, I can’t tell you why he’s good,
because if I could, I could do just what he’s doing,
and I can’t. Alll can say is, that his work is just
sticky with human interest, and that’s all there is
about it! ”
The Athenaeum (8/8/3) says:—“The death, at
the early age of thirty-nine, of the artist universally
known as Phil May was not unexpected, but is
no less a loss to the world, since he was unequalled
in his own style. Mr. May was born in Leeds in
1864, and did cartoons in London for the St.
Stephen’s Review, but made his name first in
Australia on The Bulletin, a well-known centre
■for the work of clever young writers and artists.”
' The Daily Chronicle (6/8/3) calls May “the
most original caricaturist of the age,” and adds
(7/8/3): “Perhaps the most productive period of
the jate Phil May was the three years he spent in
Sydney as the leading artist of The Bulletin. He
joined that most popular and widely-circulated of
Australian weekly journals shortly after its
foundation, and the striking novelty and quaint
originality of his pictorial contributions were no
small factors in spreading the name and fame of
The Bulletin all. over the Commonwealth.”
The Daily Mail (6/8/3) calls May “pro-
bably the greatest black-and-white humorist
since the days of Leech,” and tells these
stories of him“ At the Savoy Hotel two
or three years ago a supper party was being
given in honor of the birthday of Mme. Amy
Sherwin, on whose menu card Mr. May made an
exquisite little drawing. This was seen by a
wealthy woman present, who sent the waiter
with a ten-pound note to the artist asking him to
do a similar drawing for her. Mr. May, dis-
gusted at the woman’s impertinence, took a good
look at her, and then made an appallingly truth-
ful caricature of her features on the back of. the
bank note, which he returned. It was a terrible
vengeance.
“.On one occasion in Romano’s after dinner he
sketched the portrait of each of Ins fellow guests
on their respective shirt-fronts, taking the stud or
studs as a point to work from. These life-like
drawings were the work of very few moments,
but they should be valuable now, if any of the
diners had the forethought to preserve them
instead of sending them to the wash ! ”
The Morning Leader says: “ The world of art
ancj the world of. humor has lost one of its finest
artists and one of its merriest of jesters.”


HYDATIDS CURED
PERSONS living in country parts, in centres remote from the services and advices of a reliable medical man, would
do well to read of this great cure from HYDATIDS, the scourge of all Australian country districts. In case of
any such fearful affliction they should write at once to the Medical Staff of
The Freeman and Wallace Medical Institute, Sydney,
who are medical experts in this disease and all others afflicting the NERVES, BLOOD and STOMACH. Any suffering
person far from professional aid, may by the Specialists’ system of Home Treatment be treated in their own hemes as
well as if personal visits were paid. Mr. Dyer, who has been permanently cured of HYDATIDS by the Specialists,
was a sufferer for years, dnd had been in many hospitals. Read his testimony. We publish also his photograph
shewing the healthy man he is to-day since he regained his health. It will do anyone good to read his letter.
SPECIALISTS IN DISEASE.
Mr. Dyer’s cure of Hydatids is but
an individual proof of a general fact
that in all classes of MEN’S DISORDERS
they are pre-eminent in the treatment
and cure. If it were necessary thou-
sands of testimonies could be produced
from suffering men in proof of this
great truth.
The Most Singular Success
has attended the Specialists during the
quarter of a century they have prac-
tised in Australia. They are
Experts in Men’s Diseases
by reason of special facilities afforded
them in studying continuously by
virtue of their extensive practice many
classes of disorders which are only met
with occasionally by the average medi-
cal man. Skill, Experience, and Perfect
Knowledge is backed up by
A £lOOO guarantee Bond
which is a proof to the patient that all
medical contracts undertaken will be
faithfully performed.
Bain
IV!r. C, F. DYER.
MB. DYER’S TESTIMONY.
Writing from No. 2 Little Barcom Street,
Darlinghurst, Sydney, on the 20th June, 1903,
Mr. Dyer tells his story of affliction and re-
covery :
“ Through, the treatment I received
from the SPECIALIST 3 of your IN-
STITUTE, I speedily recovered from
HYDATIDS, which disease was fol-
lowed by inflammation of the bowels.
“ I have been a patient in two Sydney
hospitals, getting no relief in either,
and, being without sleep for seven
nights, I consulted DR R. WALLAC E,
the Physician-in-Chief of the Insti-
tute. The pain I suffered up to this
time was almost unbearable, but from
the time of beginning your remedies I
began to mend, and soon I was com-
paratively a new man. Although I
still continue under treatment, ;n order
to build up my strength, I consider
myself well in every i espect, * and
willing to testify and gratefully
acknowledge the skill and success
attending the labors of your Specialists.
“ (Signed) C. F. DYER.”
Full particulars of this wonderful cure will he
forwarded to any applicant, with special pam-
phlet of reliable testimonies from cured persons.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
This splendid institution, the most scientific in the Southern world, is the professional centre to which thousands
of suffering men gravitate yearly. Men who have suffered from Prostatic Troubles, Varicocele, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,,
Loss of Vital Power, :Sciatica, Rheumatism, Blood Diseases arising from a Specific Blood Poison, and other Serious Ailments,
have testified‘to the Specialists’wonderful skill. Testimonies are daily received from the most reputable sources. All
letters are replied to with professional privacy, each letter receiving the direct supervision of the Physician-in-Chief, Dr.
R. WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.E.P.S., E. L.M., who is registered by Australian, English and American Medical
Boards. (See N.S.W. and Victorian Registered Practitioners’ List.) Consultations and Advice are Eree. One of the
finest medical works, favorably reviewed by over 150 Australian journals, “ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 750 pages, 150
medical plates, of whiich the Specialists are the authors, will he posted free to any address for Five Ptnce in Stamp?.
CAUTION i
Beware of Persons
who imitate the
Specialists’ methods
of advertising: and wt.o f retend to offer for
sale for 10s. their £ti Electric “ Invigorator ”
Belt for which they have special Australian
patent rights. This is only a trick to secure
trade. These are only bass imitations. The
Specialists employ no Agents or Canvassers.
The FREEMAN and WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney
“ Hyphen s he :
Passingthe Law Courts in Lonsdale-Street (Melbourne),
about 9 a.m., I saw six men with three horses in attend-
ance, trying to shift a stump of telegraph pole out of a
hole in the kerbing. They had a derrick and pulleys
rigged, and a chain passed round the stump. Then they
all threw themselves on to the rope. “ Yaheavoo ” they
yelled, and pulled lustily. Nothing shifted—till the
chain slipped. Then they all sat down in an untidy heap.
After some argument they started again, and I came
away. Passing that way from lunch, observed men,
horses and stump still in the same place. The men were
still “ Yaheavooing” when I repassed at 4 p.m. It was
not till about 5.30, on my way homewards, that they had
all disappeared—all, that is, except the stump. It was
still there, with a slight list to port and a broad grin on
its rugged countenance.
Dill Macky’s Watchman had a leader a
week or so ago heaping mud on the memory of
Gladstone for his views on Home Rule. Recalls
to the writer’s mind some doggerel published
years ago
When the G.O.M. goes forth to his doom
He will ride in a fiery chariot,
And sit in state on a red-hot plate
Betvveen Satan and Judas Iscariot.
Says the Devil, “ I’m rather full just now,
But I’ll do the best I can ;
I’ll let Ananias and Judas go free
To make room for the Grand Old Man.”
Gone from the cares of office,
Gone from the head of affairs;
Gone in the head, they tell us ;
Gone whither no one cares ;
Gone whither none can tell ;
Gone, let us hope, to Heaven,
There are devils enough in hell.
“.T.D.”: Can’t we find plain clothes
policemen who would be picked as spielers,
bookmakers or capitalists before being taken
for “thief-catchers.” Standing at our street
corner last Sunday were two plain clothes
policemen watching Casey’s pub. 1 heir attitude
was a picture—heels together, toes turned out
at an angle of forty-five degrees, left hand
fumbling with watch chain, no conversation
between them —only the off eye of each on
Casey’s instead of one watching it. Presently
a red-headed youngster rushed up breathless
and told another kid that Bruiser Morgan was
wallopin’ the stuffin’ out of big Gaffer down
the back lane. The two Johns immediately
wended towards the lane, and Casey “unloaded”
seven thirsty citizens. The red-headed kid lives
next to Casey’s, and scouts for him all day Sunday.
Lando ” : Last September it was or-
dained by the Comptroller (by the way, why thus
spelt ?) that all aboriginals serving six months and
upwards were to do their time in Grafton gaol—
for climatic reasons. Accordingly two dark
escorts, totalling 11 nigs., arrived. Included Dora
Dora Jacky and Willie. Jacky (doing “ life ”) is
all right so long as he has plenty of weed. Willie
(15 years), due for probable discharge next
December, is tinged with melancholia. Both are
fair bootmakers. Larry (life) is hatmaking, and
apparently contented. James Larry (10 years) is
boot-closing, and is a great reader and belongs to
the choir. So long as they complete the weekly
task necessary to earn first-class indulgence
-2oz. tobacco, J-lb. tea, lib. sugar—none of them
bother about e.i ruing any bonus. James Clarke (14
years) died of pneumonia about three months
after his receipt. Five weeks before Clarke’s death
the visiting surgeon i:eq uisitioned for i-cwt linseed
rjtsartSr ,'r, t
—endoised 1 lease expedite, as it is urgently
needed,' 1 he requisition went through the usual
by-paths to the Chief Inspector of Stores, and the
meal arrived at Grafton gaol in six weeks time
just a week after Clarke’s death. No linseed was
jftwjs <**»*»-• a-*
that the Grafton stores were not all destitute of it.
Some Doiiurs in Divorce •
oonie Doings in Divorce .
Justice Hood tackled a record list of divorce cases (51)
in Melbourne last month and got through them in busi-
ness-like fashion, wasting no time in Maddenesque plati-
tudes on the iniquity of absent co-respondents and missing
respondents. Mostly they were of the common or “ ordi-
nary ” variety, where the husband fades away through
weariness, or the wife casually resigns the billet of
honorary washer-up and bab.v-minder without pay ; but
a few showed some bright tints One husband had given
his wife but £1 during 13 years of wedded bliss, but
thoughtfully informed her ere finally departing in ’99 that
“ if she wanted him he was to be found every night at
Tattersall’s, playing cards.” Another went to that alleged
hunting ground of missing husbands—Westralia—sent his
wife £1 in four years, then lapsed permanently. A petition-
ing husband, who married at 19 and gave 10s. of his 17s. 6d.
wages to his wife (she staying meanwhile at her mother’s),
seemingly took so little heed of his looser half that she
acquired two irregular infants before he began to be
suspicious. A lady who, at 34, had married a man of 39,
had never lived with him. A month after the wedd’ng,
while she was still in service, he went for a trip to Eng-
land, promising to make a home for heron his return,
That was the last she saw of him. Another extra-sudden
respondent had faded away after a brief honeymoon of
on, J- ,He went out to look for work, and appa-
ssmrst
was down the street with a couple of men, one of
whom was tickling her, merely replied that “he
thought he would not go down to see about it,
? 3 h . is toothache was so bad.” One would have
fraction would have been welcomed
sgs*s?s«
barely the necessary three years, but it was shown that
respondent had intended to desert in the previous
January, so his Honor was complaisant, and granted a
decree. This respondent was an unusually accommodafc-
jn» P erson > and actually called on petitioner’s solicitor to
9p VS oUhe genuf^peiitioner man’t
a city newspaper office, who had married at 18, in
lS9ti. He swore that his wife had begun mis-
conducting herself after 18 months of dull re-
spectability, and had practically been doing it, more
or ( ess > all the years they were married right up to
April of this year. He had suffered in comparative
silence because she always, when found out, promised
immediate and permanent reform, but at last he got
full up and sent her home to her mother. His gradual-
ness moved Justice Hood to assure him he was “the
most patient man he had ever met.” Just then the
maligned respondent dramatically stepped forward' in
court and handed his Honor a loving letter which she
said was written by petitioner to another lady, and she
asserted that he himself was no better than he ought to
be—was, in fact, a good deal worse ; so the case was
adjourned for a month 'o give the lady a chance to
bring her witnesses.


aa
AS AN INVESTMENT.
READ WHAT
AN AUTHORITY SAYS.
ä
PEOPLE cannot understand why Diamonds do not come down in price.
Unless some new Diamond fields are discovered they will never come
down, and I think that proportionately they will go as much higher
in the next ten years as they have in the last ten years. The reason
is this: Ten years ago it took less than one-third of the effort to produce
Diamonds as it does to-day. In other words, the strata of blue ground in the
Kimberley Fields that were then worked were so prolific that Diamonds
were found practically on the top of the earth. After the very prolific strata
were worked out and it was necessary to go down a little deeper into the
earth Diamonds were not quite so plentiful, and to day it takes at least three
times the effort to produce the same amount of stones it did ten years ago.
Pearls are also going up in value at a rapid rate.
A
UNIQUE
INVESTMENT.
ã
ä
AS an investment, Diamonds afford advantages offered by nothing else.
/\ For years they have increased in value at about the rate of 10 per
cent, a year, which makes them as an investment about three timesas
good as any bank. When you put your money in the bank someone'
else has the use of it; when you put it in Diamonds you yourself have the use
of it, and the pleasure and satisfaction of wearing Diamonds are worth as
much as the returns from the investment. This is no idle statement, written
only with the view of selling our Diamond goods, but actual facts which you
can easily prove to be correct.
We are the only Australian firm having a Warehouse in Hatton Garden,
which place, as everjmne knows, is the Diamond Mart of the world. Our
long and careful study of the Stone Market has placed us in the unique posi-
tion of being able to buy more favorably than almost any firm, i I ese
advantages are shared with our customers, while others, if they could buy as
cheaply, would probably retain them as extra profit.
Sunday I caught a very bad cold,
Monday it took a rather firm hold,
Tuesday I had to take to my bed,
Wednesday I thought I’d shortly be dead,
Thursday came and I got a bit worse,
Friday they talked of getting a nurse,
But Saturday brought relief swift and sure— ■
A bottle of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
“ If Not, Why Not 1 ” is the title given by
the A. and A. Steamship Line (Burns, Philp & Co.,
agents) to an attractive American guide book—
locally printed, we are glad to notice. The joys
and comforts and privileges of going to Europe
via America on this route are so well presented
that the query which heads the book can only be
reasonably answered wjth “Haven’t got the time
or money ” The inclusion of useful facts about the
United States, and a very, fine map of the country,
makes “If Not, Why Not?” well worth preserv-
ing.*
Investment No. 1
Is a very handsome Drop Style NECK-
LACE for evening wear. 74 Fine Diamonds
and 27 pretty Whole Pearls. Price, £5O,
worth more now.
Investment No. 2
Is an exceedingly handsome Festoon NECK-
LACE, for evening wear, set with 117 bright
Diamonds and 26 fine color Turquoises. Price,
£75, worth nearer £lOO.
Investment No. 3
Is a NECKLET with 11 pendant pieces
set with 163 fine Diamonds, 12 large Pearls,
and 29 pretty Whole Pearls. Price, only
£135.
Investment No. 4
This is the Gem of the Collection—a
magnificent DIAMOND and PEARL COM-
BINATION NECKLACE and TIARA. Set
with 293 Exquisite Diamonds and 15 lovely
whole Pearls. Were we to mount one to
match, the price would run to about £5OO.
This one costs £385.
Investment No. 5
Is an Exquisitely Designed NECKLET, in
the form of 7-leaf Pendants and diamond
set square pattern back, the whole containing '
225 Diamonds. Price, Jl5O.
# Investment No. 6
For lovers of OPALS and DIAMONDS this
should prove attractive. A beautifully
designed NECKLACE. Set with 211 Dia-
monds and 31 rainbow-tinted opals. Price, £l2O.
Investment No. 7
Superb Turquoise and Diamond NECK-
LACE, beautiful in design and finish. Set with
103 Diamonds and 37 lovely blue Turquoises.
Price, £135, but worth quite 15 per cent, more
to-day.
Investment No. 8
Is a row of Single Stones—beautiful blazing
DIAMONDS, pure in colour and free from
blemishes. Each stone set in a separate
Collet, so that only the least particle of gold
shows round the edges of the stones; 59 stones
in all. Price, £250.
DIAMOND
JEWELLERY
Is like a coat of arms, it fixes the
standing of the wearer. It is the
only thing you buy to wear that does
not wear out.
å
DIAMONDS.
Nothing that you might select for a
wedding-gift would be more accept-
able or sensible, for Diamonds—such
as we sell—increase in intrinsic worth
with age, and never deteriorate in
beauty.
Although we give particulars of'the NECKLETS only we have lovely things set with Diamonds,
such as Rings, Brooches, Bracelets, Pendants, Pins, Studs, from a few pounds upwards.
It is not necessary for you to be wealthy to possess a piece of Diamond Jewellery.
å
[fir,
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDINC LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from it.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents:
FECTOO tniMIE * CO., NEWItK
BLACK, ItLI), and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases): —
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
„ SYDNIY (E. Rich & CO., Ltd.)
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
n HOBART <Wm. Crosby & Co.)
The Inky Way.
A unique correspondence has been going on between
two Bulletin contributors who happen to be neighbors.
Some time in the tail of 1901, one of them, “D.H.,’*
wrote from the inside of British Papua quoting prices for
“tucker” in the Yodda Valley. The par. got to the B.
at the end of March, 1902. By the middle of August,
1902, it had got back-in print to the inside of Papua ;
whereupon the other correspondent, “ Shopki,” pro-
ceeded to dance on “D.H.,” and the result reached the
B,on Dec. 20. In April “D.H.” was able to read what
his neighbor had said about him in August the year
before ; and his remarks, defending the statement he had
made away back in 1901, wandered Into The Bulletin
office late in July, 1903 This is, no doubt, what daily-
paper correspqhdents call “rushing into print.”
Bairnsdale, the sleepy’, stone-built capital of Gippsland,
boasts a curiosity in the shape of a half-penny weekly,
entitled Every Week. It is a small sheet, consisting of
twenty columns well studded with “live” advertise-
ments. Every Week has been twice enlarged during its
short existence, and has a guaranteed circulation of 2,300
copies weekly, which knocks the shine out of the other
tri-weeklies published locally'—but though the published
price is nominally ‘ half-a-brown,’ the copies are really
distributed free. They are in great demand on the
morning of publication b.y the local tradesmen, wherein
to wrap country’ orders. Hence it is a common sight to
see the lass from Mossiface sitting aboard the puffing
mud-back scraper, homeward bound, with her parcel of
sausages lying on her lap in all their damp, red naked-
ness, and the cabbage between her feet, while the
wrap is being read ! Bairnsdale’s oldest paper, the
Advertiser, published tri-weekly, is a natty
sheet, of fair dimensions, run entirely by the
Yates family father, sons, and daughter. The
Courier is published on alternate days to its rival.
These two papers devote much of their scanty space to
calling each other a reptile. The Snowy River Mail is
another curiosity, published weekly up where the bunyip
is supposed to have its existence. Syndicate “ ads.”
form the burden of its matter, and out of nine local pars
five will probably refer to pigs, one to onions, and the
remainder to other animals or vegetables. Society
gossip is not expected Snowy River way—but pig
news is the essence of a happy existence up there.
* * * *
“ Wurrym ” : Jenkinson drifted in to see me lately.
He was looking for a billet. Explained how he had
severed his connection with a rival rag. “ Marked for
annual conference of the total abstinence and Rechabite
pushes. Met friend down in town for the first time for
four years. Had one or two, or three. Damn Rechabite
crowd. Pulled together a bit, and silted in to the show
about 10.60. Speaker sat down shortly after. Thought
it was m.y turn then. Said: ‘Genelmen, I’ve lish—
listened wiz great pleasure what you said, but don’t
forget pubs goin’ close in ten minish.’ And four Recha-
bites were badly hui\ in the rush that holy crowd made
to the telephone to tell the old man that I was drunk.
The biggest Rechabite got to the ’phone first, and his
whiskers streamed over it like the cataract at Lodore as
he rang up the office and asked the boss to come and
take his miserable reprobate away.”
Journalist G. E. Bentley, who died at Ashburton (M.L.),
t’other day, was fairly well-known in Tasmania and Aus-
tralia. Breaking a limb through falling down stairs, he
was operated upon twice. When told that a third opera-
tion was imperative, he recalled that there had been a
dozen deaths in M.L. in 18 months as a result of ansesthe-
tics, so, lest the opportunity might be lost, he wrote an
article giving his dreamy impressions when under the
influence of the drug on the second occasion. Bentley
w “
Some provincial newspapers do* pay. Charters Towers
daily Miner and weekly Reoister f’rinstance. Pro-
prietary is spending about £2OOO on a new building in
place of the old shanty, which dates from about the mid-
seventies. The Miner was once famous as the organ of
Thady O’Kane, whose record for libels transcends John
Snorting’s. Several times after Thady’s severance from
the paper the old building was within an ace of having
a roDe run round it with a mob of miners heaving
thereon. Thady would be uneasy in his grave if he
could see what a tame and respectable rag his old sheet
has degenerated into.
* * • *
The new Brisbane Daily Mail is billed to make its
debut on October 3. Capital is set down at £50,000 (£1
shares). The Board of Directors comprises J. Archi-
bald, M.L.0., G. W. Gray, M.L.C., Malcolm M‘Eacharn,
M.H.R., and O. H. Buzacott, erstwhile Brisbane News-
paper Co.’s managing director. The preliminary notice
announces it as a “ liberal and newspaper.”
Just fancy a liberal and progressive newspaper with
names like those.
* * * *
Apologetic item in Eden (N.S.W.) Propeller (31/7/03) :
“Owing to an intruding dog tripping our assistant while
he had a column in hand, which was reduced to ‘ pi,’we
are later than usual this week.”
* * * •
When interviewed in London as to her Australian tour,
Melba said that every country has the sort of press it
deserves. This was needless severity. Even Australia
doesn’t deserve the Pastoralists’ Review.
* » * *
“ Jimpan ” ; During my two nights’ solitary confine-
ment in an outback pub. I picked up the local “ rag,”
and struck the following items
“A sever shock of earthquake occured at Jeeusalem
and caused a panic.”
“ I would like to call attention of buyers of Knitted
Over an in.h and a half of rain fill a Charleyville (CJ. on
Satarday. The Warrego is rising fast, and the water is
nearly touchigg the bridge.”
“During the thunderstorm in Melbourne, a shild was
carried aiong to a large drain pipe leading to the sea
which disappeared, the mother being an eye-witness.
/‘The Councils tinctured upon straying stock last
night were appriately confrrmed by a stray cow quietly
strolling up Ansin-st, part the Chambers as the repinters
left.”
“ A Bank Inspector killed. Walking in his slegp.”.
“In order to relieve our staff and give ;them a
5pe11...”
The cry of a Maoriland newspaper (Eketahuna Express)
that has been robbed of its advertisement: “ The Pahia*
tua Herald has smitten the Premier hip and thigh
because it has been struck off the list of newspapers
which are to receive Government advertisements. We
sympathise with our contemporary, because we have
been similarly treated. But the time will come ! And
when it does, woe unto them who sit in high places, for
verily they shall be made sad. They shall be bitten as by
a scorpion, and there shall be no health in them. Faint
not by the way, Pahiatua. Virtue will yet be triumphant,
and the wrong-doer will be brought to sorrow 1 ”
THE WESTERN RAG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You’re only a commonplace Western print—
A dreary sheet—yet I call you friend;
A feeble effort, with scarce a hint
Of decent copy from end to end.
Your leader is dull as it well can be,
Your news is gleaned from the mailman’s bag ;
Yet your dullest page has a charm for me,
For you take me a journey, old Western Rag I
You bear me away to a far-out town
Where the hot sun glares on the hot iron roofs —
Where the drovers rattle their money down
To the merry tune of the flying hoofs;
For they run a race in the main street there,
With a bar-towel used for a starter’s flag;
And—win or lose it—they run it fair ;
Or they did when I knew you, old Western Rag 1
In every par is an old mate’s name—
They’ve a flow, I see, at that bore of Brown’s ;
And I learn that Cameron’s dog is lame,
And that Howe was “the ringer” at Bowen Downs.
“ The Rager’s” been out on a mighty burst —
I’ll wager the bobbies found him a snag ;
He was none too slow when we knew him first,
But, like us, he’s a has-been, old Western Rag.
And her name is there—a discerning pen
Has written her “ Belle of the last race ball.”
Does she queen it now as she queened it then—
The beautiful tyrant who ruled us all ?
Does>he ever think ’mid the voices’ hum
Of a waltz “ sat out ” neath a drooping flag?
Why should she think ? Yet the thought will come ;
And I blame you for it, old Western Rag.
N.s.w.
SPINIFEX.
SAPPHO AND ME.
[For Tub Bulletin.]
Sappho of Lesbos wrote on her isle
Verse by the furlong and verse by the mile ;
Now all her poems are lost in the years
Spilt o’er the rims of the twain hemispheres.
Sappho the Lesbian’s verses are dead,
But mine are still printed, paid for, and read.
There’ll be a day when mine are forgot,
And Sappho and I shall inuse o’er our lot,
Under the shade of the wild olive-tree,
You’ll find there two ghosts, those of Sappho and Me !
GRANT HERVEY.
A LETTER,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear Bulletin, —I’ve tried in vain, and yet somehow 1 do
not tire
Of trying to arouse what you might call the true poetic
fire.
I feel sometimes that you are hard ; then, as I read, I
think you right,
For my poor efforts fail to paint the glorious day, the
wondrous night.
And when from out my camp I see through scrub the
sun-rise gladdening all,
And bird to bird a message sends with thrilling sound
from branches tall,
I take my pen to write a thought—to seize it ere it flits
away—
And sometimes feel that I have caught a book-mark for
the leaves of day.
And when I stoop to raise a stem, crowned by some
fair dew-laden flower,
I think at last I have the theme, and in the theme I have
the power;
But when I try to tell the tale of petals wet with tears of
dew,
A cow-bell in the distance tolls : “ It will not do, it will
not do 1 ”
W.A.
JOHN S. ALLDAY.


“Ses”: During the debate on the Ser-
vants’ Registry Bill, Mr. J. 0. Xj. Fitzpatrick,
one of the three who voted against it, said that
“the necessity of private registry offices was
shown by the fact that, while the office estab-
lished by the State was dealing with hundreds, a
private office would deal with thousands of appli-
cations.” The difference mentioned doesn’t prove
anything of the kind; it merely shows that a
majority of employers, who can’t be fleeced and
have nothing to lo3e, go to the private offices, and
the unfortunate slavey has to follow suit to get an
eariy engagement. Also it shows that private
offices get a vast number of applicants by adver-
tising imaginary billets. Another thing which has
much weight with the majority of servants is the
taint of pauperism that has become inseparable
from State institutions of the kind. Wipe out the
private offices altogether, and this objection would
be in a great measure removed, and Mrs. Potts-
Point would have no alternative but to place her
favors with the State office. The Bill doesn t go
far enough. It should be made illegal for any
person to keep a private registry office. It seems
a strange anomaly that a community that kicks
so vigorously against k< Tattersall s swoops can
permit these registry sharks to live and grow fat
on the misfortunes of others. We want them put
down, not licensed.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
leame’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS IEtiEiIUEEIID'X’ FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It ia most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to dovelop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BKWAREI OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MAIITYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE'S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearn-:.—
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which yon will glean that
your medicine, has been a perfect Godsend to,a martyr to
rolds a-d bronchial asthma. Ido not w i-h any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of tins letter you choose, andyou can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I beard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was. —Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured the. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH,
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
" Dear Sir,—i wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfullv,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidh successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ty-nine other leading residents.
A TEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
<j oses ._p, j<\ 'MULLINS, Cowie’e Creek, Victoria.”
©
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderful'y <| nick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
(he medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.YV."
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Benny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ jfy wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad io inform you that your Brochilis Cure has dus
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quickly cured us bo;h.—R. BASoETT, Strath Creek, via Bro ord,
Victoria.”
•
‘‘l have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as (he smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victors.”
O
“ 1 have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine. —JOHN MADDEN, Skiplon, Victoria.”
•
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone. —J. HARRINGTON, Biugegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
©
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne."
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
@
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—o. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
•
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
;■ . .. , ©
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. Th • result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. fJEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” O
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bolMe. -W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
3
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever bad. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” ©
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial. —JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
. •
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom 1 paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. —11. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis. —A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
« Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
&
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
«• The Scientific Australian Office,
“169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Ilearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if Ihere is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We .enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATHEUL-
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Ilearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your. Bron liilis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the resul. that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in tiie
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yoursfaitbfullv,
“R. QUA It RILL,
“ Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot . jy 0 g ( ]?i rs t j«l 00r , Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE
SMELTING * REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, SlagS, and Jewellers’ Swee&_gtg.
For all Information regarding Hates, apply to the Manager, Head Oeeice, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER , & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
BENGER'S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
M
The London Medical Record
sa y S “ it is .retained when all
other foods are rejected."
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has by
its excellence established a
reputat.on of its own."
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


TATTE RS ALLS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Fenny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tatter sail's on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBX, and so on.
NOW OPEN
DEMONSTRATION H’CP, Warwick Farm, N.S.W., Oct. 5, 50 000 at 5/1,
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic., Oct. 17, 100,000 at 5/1.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,000 at 10/2.
MELBOUB, jJE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,000 at 5/1*
MELBOURNE CUP (Special), Elemington, Vic., November 3 (Drawn Morning of Race), 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGB
ADAM'S, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to ac 1 vise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
'‘'mail Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart, through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.
Our Latest Styles of
GRAMOP
ARB FITTED WITH THE
NEW PATENT “SOUND ARM,
99
IT APPEALS TO YOU
HERE
s ■/
PURER,
LOUDER and
SWEETER.
One of the many advantages which this attach-
ment possesses is the ease with which
the horn can be turned in any direction.
FRIGES
“ Monarch,” single-spring machine, 22in. Brass Horn, and “ Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “ Sound Arm”
“ Double=Spring Monarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “ Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “ Sound Arm ”
“ Triple=Spring Monarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm”
£ll 15 O
. ... . . . . )
£l4 15 O
£l6 5 O
Other Styles, 30s to £3O.
All “ Monarch ” styles play 7in. or lOin. records.
Agents all over the World.
♦
RECORDS
IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Send for Catalogues and
Price Lists.
. ( ♦
Australasian Agents
Victoria—
A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co.,
94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Queensland—
Messrs. Heindorff Bros.,
210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
West Australia—
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.,
Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand—
Messrs. 11. Gentles & Co.,
9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Tasmania—
Messrs. Wertheimer & Benjamin,
71 Collins Street, Hobart.
GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
file Evangelical Church Association ”
of Victoria, with sectarian Canon Berry for its
mouthpiece, is asking that all charitable institu-
tions which employ labor for profit-making pur-
poses may be brought under the provisions of tße
Factories and Shops Acts. It goes without
saying that Canon Berry’s evangelical optic is
fixed upon the R.C. convent laundry, where the
female of more or less unstable character washes
her sins away in the Faith which maintains a
prosperous opposition to the E.C.A. Also it is
an undeniable fact that the charity of a convent
asylum which takes in washing may be made to
cover a multitude of injustices to the workers. A
home is provided for some women, who do nothing
but eat, sleep, and say their prayers, and for
others who work very little ; but a number of able-
bodied, willing toilers are perhaps sweated for
the glory of God and the good of the institution
as a going concern. This being conceded to the
sectarianism of Canon Berry and co., it remains
for those doubtful, champions of Factories and
bhops legislation'to extend their solicitude to the
inmates of certain Protestant washeries, where the
weary refugee works out her own salvation with-
out any worldly wages. And the industrial
operations of the Salvarmy call for State super-
vision If the Christian endeavors of Canon
Berry and co. can bring Harmy trading under the
control of the Factories Act the Lord’s blessing
will probably rest upon those one-sided agitators.
But perhaps, while the Canon is on the job, he will
hustle his friend Irvine a little and try to make
reasonably sure that there will be any Factories
Act to bring the convent under.
Plain language from W. T. Stead in a
review of “The Failure of Lord Curzon,”byan
ex-civilian official:
The poverty of the people who have to foot the bill run
up by the Russophobists is appalling. In Behar, one of
the richest provinces of Bengal, some twelve millions of
the peasants during many months of the year live or die
on one meal a day. These statements relate to a period
antecedent to Lord Curzon’s advent Later statements
are unprocurable, because Lord Curzon has put the gag
upon his officials. Anyone who so far forgets himself as
to admit that famine is caused by any but natural causes
finds his career ended. “Mum’s the word” in India
to-day.
Privy Council decision in the case B. R.
Wise v. Perpetual Trustee Co. is of some interest
to club members. Mr. Wise, as a member of the
old Cercle Frangais Club, was, with four others,
sued to make good a big liability left by the club
on its dissolution. He was willing to share with
all the other members the liability, but not to
shoulder an undue proportion of it. The case
went against Wise in the N.S.W. courts ; the
Privy Council decided in his favor and ruled—
Clubs are associations of a peculiar nature. They are
societies the members of which are perpetually changing.
They are not partnerships ; they are not associations for
gain ; and the feature which distinguishes them from
other societies is that no member, as such, becomes
liable to pay to the funds of the society or to anyone else
any money beyond the subscriptions required by the
rales of the cluh to be paid so long as he remains a mem-
ber. It is upon this fundamental condition, not usually
expressed, but understood by everyone, that clubs are
formed ; and this distinguishing feature has been often
judicially recognised.
This decision will probably have some effect on
the credit of clubs. The man who gives credit to
a club can only hope to get his money if the sub-
scriptions of the members and anything that may
be raised by a voluntary passing of the hat will
cover the debt. Any attempt at compulsory
Eassingof the hat to two or three solvent mem-
ers justifies these members in kicking said hat —
hard.
Be H. E. Holland’s paragraph on Ethel
Herringe, “John Carew” writes :
I regret that Mr. Holland’s memory is so defective.
He may refresh it by reading the statements on oath in
Oowra Free Press of Nov 28th, 1902, or Oowra Guardian.
(1) Mr. Holland states : “Lee was the only Cohentin-
genter Ethel Herringe had been engaged to.” The word
“ engaged ”is his own. The relations between Ethel and
the first Cohentingenter were such as permitted her to
receive half his pay. In connection with this emolument
the Anglican cleric, Seymour-Smith, signed the cus-
tomary document. Three months intervened between
the death of the first Cohentingenter and the man-
slaughter of Maurice John Lee.
(2) Mr. Holland denies the statement —“Without any
apparent conventional reason, she sprang a marriage
ceremony,” etc. —and retorts : “ When dying, Lee
admitted his promise to marry Ethel Herringe.” Does a
man’s promise to marry constitute an “ apparent con-
ventional reason ” for the woman to fix time, place and
circumstance at a moment’s notice, with the alternative
of sudden death? When dying, Lee, on oath, said : “ I
made no arrangement to marry her.” Another sworn
witness stated he remarked—“ Why did you not give me
a chance ?’’
(3) As to my statement, “ The subsequent Grenfel'i
petition for her release was coolly received in Cowra,”
neither press, clergy, nor influential citizen supported
the movement. Many signatures were given from pity
for the girl’s respectable family, and by persons not
anxious to be pointed out as desiring her detention. As
to the remark—“ The tardy infant provoked no enthu-
siasm it is an unfortunate circumstance that this sort
of infant never does provoke enthusiasm.
“No Prime Minister was sufficiently
imbued with Australian sentiments to be trusted
-with important negotiations such as these in
London, for when he basked in the smile of
duchesses, when he was taken in hand by Mr.
Chamberlain, and when the King held a sword
over his head, and did not let it drop, our experi-
ence was th ’ afc Australian interests were for-
gotten.”—Senator Stewart, on the Naval Tribute.
The Anti-Federal Capital League, founded
by some y ictorian back-block nobodies, got a bad
set-back from Wodonga Council which decided
... . 6
Maffra be informed that this council believes in <aith
being kept with New South Wales . . . regards the
present movement as a movement fomented by the
property owners of Melbourne to retain the seat of
Government for ever; that, apart from the question of
repudiation, the building of a capital inland is desirable,
not only as tending towards decentralisation, but as
affording absolute security in case of invasion. Further,
this council fails to see that a capital can be created more
cheaply in Melbourne or Sydney than in the country.
o„ ddnTl „ P „ r inns mixfnrp After ramn
. oSuaon IS a curious mixture.. Alter ramp
mg round furiously when the British Bull didn t
take his last loan proposals kindly, he now asks
Parliament to hit hack at the ships of any foreign
country wh i c h imposes restrictions on British
shipg J ' The U-S . F re aimed at , 0 f course ; they
prohibit foreign vessels (British included) from
competing for their coastal trade, and, Seddon
suggests the same treatment for U.S. ships. Still,
jt’ s pretty obvious that he doesn’t expect Parlia-
ment to paBS the gill; pro bably as one who is
, ~ i-i u • • tp i j
shortly going into the retail business in England,
he merely wants to stand well with the prospec-
tive buyer of half-a-pound of suet.


ā
ă
m
1 1
■
m
m
s
■
m-i
m
m.w*
mm
ą
«
ipu,
sum
5*5
s>3
.22 Caliber Cartridges
If you want to use .22 Caliber Rim Fire Cartridges that shoot
strongly and accurately, buy the time-tried Winchester make,
having the trade-mark “H ” on the head. They cost but a
few pence more a box than the cheap, unreliable kind, and
they are shillings better. Winchester .22 Caliber Cartridges
are furnished loaded with either black or smokeless powder, the
latter being loaded with the celebrated Winchester Grease-
less Bullets, which make them vary dean to handle.
FOR SALE BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
Before purchasing WINCHESTER GOODS
Send for oar Rifle Catalogue. Post Free.
PERRY BROS. -
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
James Martin & Co.
161 CLARENCE ST.
Near King St.
SYDNEY
ǻ
WE ARE PREPARED TO
ILLUMINATE ANY PLACE,
ANY TIME, ANYWHERE, with
ACETYLENE GAS.
ā
When you want MOTIVE POWER it will
pay you to investigate the merits of
MARTIKT’S
Nonpareil Oil Engine
BURNS ORDINARY KEROSENE.
FULL SPEED AT A MOMENT'S NOTICE.
Strong 1 , Safe, Cheap, Economical.
ALL SIZES, both HORIZ3MTAL. and PORTABLE.
R3P Send for Illustrated Descriptive Circular.
Martin’s Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas Generator.
ALL SIZES, from 5 to 1000 LIGHTS.
OVER 503 IN DAILY USE. Send for our “No. 56
Acetylene Gas Catalogue.’’
CARBIDE OF CALCIUfI at the BEST PRICES.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages ; price, is. Gd.
Wrecked Illusions.
DEDICATED TO LOUIS BECKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You are now in London town,
Louis Becke,
Keeping up your old renown,
Writing yarns of women brown,
Getting yellow money down,
Or a cheque.
That is right enough, maybe—
You are wise;
But your Isles of the South Sea,
Where the life is bold and free,
You may have them all for me—
Dash your eyes !
I am full of you,JJI am,
To the neck;
And I cannot think with calm
Of your tales “ By Reef and Palm ”
But I have to mutter “D n
Louis Becke! ”
You have dined, the press records
(Mot in joke),
At the hospitable boards
Of a lot of dukes and lords,
And beguiled them with your words —
Simple folk !
Yet I would not envy you,
Be it said,
If the tiles you told were true
As they were unique and new—
But you made them all up, Loo,
In your head.
Ne* ;r, as in days of yore,
(You will see)
On your pages shall I pore,
With t .cir yarns of love and gore,
Never, Louis, any more
Becke for me.
I’d rejoice to have you here
, (You might grieve !)
With your pen behind your ear,
In this clammy atmosphere,
Where it rains all round the year,
I believe.
O, you made a fine renown !
Mr. 8.,
With your yarns of women brown,
And the red hibiscus crown
On the black hair hanging down
To the knee.
I have seen in Santa Cruz,
(Bet your life!)
Women browner than tan shoes—
And I’d rather die than choose
Any one of them as Muse,
Or as wife.
They had hair limed freely, but
Wore no wreath;
They had mouths of comic cut—
Mouths that hardly ever shut—
Red with chewing betel-nut,
And black teeth.
And their tank ears hung in loops,
And were well
Loaded down with rings in groups,
Blocks of wood, and things like scoops,
And their noses shone with hoops
Made of shell.
They exhaled a perfume rare
(Potent yet,
Even in this strong sea-air),
Of its name I’m not aware—
But it was not, I can swear,
Mignonette.
Could Romance live there ? Alas,
It took wings!
Louis, you can take the class,
You can have the lot—l pass—
With, their petticoats of grass.
And nose-rings.
And your traders —Grand old Drunks —
Where are they?
I have seen 3ome queer quidnuncs
Who go sober to their bunks,
And are temperate as monks,
Sad to say.
They were clothed in suits of white,
Fresh and neat;
And no marks of rpcpnt fight
Marred their countenances bright,
And they spoke in words polite,
Clean and sweet.
If this Rechabitish crew,
This tame lot,
Are indeed the models true
Of the Traders bold you drew —
Then I really think that you
Should be shot.
You may say in weak excuse—
Being gnawed
By your conscience—that the loose
Stories that you did produce
Dealt with other isles. No use !
You’re a Fraud !
Well, my Last Illusion so
Comes to wreck.
’Tis your fault, as well you know,
Yet I would not wish you woe —
But you know where liars go,
Louis Becke!
GUADALCANAL
V. J. DALEY.
Is the superior competing Scotchman to
disappear ? Stated by an English authority that
the Scottish working clashes are rapidly deteriorat-
ing in consequence of having discarded porridge
in favor of the Cockney diet of boiled tea, bread,
jam, and tinned food.
Bananaland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Queensland, Chowland, Kanakaland— ifc is all
one, a country with very little evil going to waste.
Its rolling downs are extra-productive ; its moun-
tains are auriferous ; its grass is sweet and pro-
lific, and its crops are always big—that is, if there
are any crops at all. It is a land of pile-raised
wooden houses with iron roofs, the habitude of
perennial thirst, soil of the bottle tree and beauti-
ful bunya-bunya pine, and home of the alligator.
It is the richest of Australian States—a land of
lassitude and of easy-going people. It is, more-
over, the milch cow of political jobbers.
The Southerner mentally associates Bananaland
mainly with heat. The heat of Queensland in the
aggregate is higher than that of the southern
States ; there are far higher temperatures in N.S.
Wales, Victoria, and South Australia than in
Queensland, but the Queensland heat is more con-
stant. It becomes really trying when you begin to
tell yourself how hot it is, and try to get cool places,
and take constant iced drinks, as the Queensland
people usually do. A Winton man tried to feel
cool in dirty Townsville, the Accurst, and from
there sought coolness in Cairns, and then at Barron
Palls, and. then Chillagoe; and then he hurried
back to Winton. He told me his own hell was
the best. There is no town in all Bananaland
that I would leave to live in Adelaide during the
summer-time.
The fault with Queenslanders in the coast towns
is that they give way to the heat. Lassitude is
catered for. Everything is iced that ice will
teinjper; there are electric fans to breathe on
your bald head, or swaying punkahs; there
are deep verandahs and deck chairs and cane
lounges; whisky, claret, sherry, squashes, iced
lager and milk shakes ; delicious tropical fruit—
pine-apples and mangoes, paw-paw (a sort of rock-
melon which grows on a New Guinea tree) and
grenadilla, which is merely a passion-fruit in a
small pie-melon shell. People from the cool parts
endure the heat better than Queenslanders—that
is for a time. Swagmen, stockmen, teamsters,
fettlers, cane-cutters do not think about the heat.
They do not get catered for—that is why.
When the Victorian first visits Queensland he is
all restlessness ; he wants to get about. “Come
on,” he says, full of enthusiasm, “I know where
there is a mango tree with ripe fruit.” The limp
Kanakaland er gloomily looks up from his lounge.
“It won’t run away,” he says. “Well, let’s get
the gun and see if we can’t knock over a duck.”
“Don’t think we will see any game,” says the
somnolent one. “ Oh, well, for goodness sake,
let’s go fishing, or do something.” “ Oh, what’s
the good?” says the man of Bananaland.
The houses of these enervated, tired, iced and
fanned people are built of wood, have iron
roofs, and when you see a big house it has
probably as many legs as a centipede. These
piles are sometimes twenty steps high, and
are used to hold the dwelling above white ants.
Between each pile and the house is a tin
plate, which projects; past this the earth-trail
of the ant can’t go. Every house has its verandah,,
and every verandah its lounge and easy chairs,
and even its bed or two. When thb tenant is not
at work, or enjoying the breeze of an electric fan,,
or taking his wife out for a drive (it is the am-
bition of every Queenslander to own a pony and
sulky), he is to be found on his verandah, like the
Transvaaler on his stoep. ■»
The first impression one takes of Queensland is
the various shading and castes of faces. All races
are busy mixing up the breeds and trying to cross
the Anglo-Saxon out of all recognition. First and
foremost there is the Chinaman. Every town
large enough to have a store has a Chinaman
keeper. Next you notice the Kanakas, who
usually go in droves. And right on top of that
you rub shoulders with the Assyrian hawker, who
is übiquitous. You hear the whine of the Hindu,,
and see the agile Japanese everywhere. There are
also our own derelicts there, Sydney’s overflow,
and Queensland’s own victims of iced whisky and
soda.
I like the young Queenslander even better than
the Maoriland fellow. He is chivalrous and
totally free from “side,” the bane of the Sydney
Johnny. His manners are simple, and he is a.
good thinker (languor is conducive to thought),
and his conversation is interesting. He is an
omnivorous reader (when he can read, and it is
marvellous how many young folks in Queensland
use a oross for a signature), and he is generally
eager to know what you have read. Unfor-
tunately, as he grows older, he loses his charm,
takes to nipping, and lets lassitude pervade his
thinking part. Decent fellows that they are,,
they nevertheless hold first place for obscenity.
T'h" “ blanky ” and the banana grow together up'
North.
_..... girls tend to grow pasty faced. They are 1
invariably plain, but have a queenly bearing. The
graceful carriage of the Italian women is imputed
to carrying pitchers of water on the head from thn
public fountains. The Queensland girls do not
carry pitchers of water on the head, and yet these-
slim girls have all the stateliness of the Dago-
races. You would think those hot climates
would have a tendency to bow the shoulders.
Queensland people are all more or less naked.
It is the land of pyjamas. The way men go about
hotels in pyjamas shocked me the first time I
visited Bananaland. In. Townsville, Cairns, and
Cooktown the leading citizens dress only in white
duck trousers and silk shirts. It is almost a mark
of distinction to dress like that, and take a cab if
you want to go to the next block. Some of these
towns have an astonishing number of cabs. I’ve
seen a dealer in Brisbane going about in bathing-
pants and a blazer. Women have shamed me
with their little-on-ness. The black gins in Cook-
town go about clothed in a skirt buttoned over
one shoulder, and the arm through the placket-
hole. Sometimes they just wear a chemise. But
in the Northern Territory, male blacks often
come into town dressed in a two-pound jam-tin.
The general dress is kharki, white duck, Assam,
or China silk suits. Hats are helmets, panama,
tuscan, or wide-leafed sombreros. I’ve seen boxers
marked up at Is. each, and the man who wears a
silk hat is fair game for the first boy he meets.
In fact, employers of boys don’t count knocking
off a tall hat with a wet dollop of rag as an
offence ; they say they feel tempted to do it them-
selves. But then, the man in proper Queensland
rig who goes South is just as attractive. People
in Sydney stare twice at his white helmet and
white green-lined umbrella and silk suit. In
Melbourne they stare him out of sight, and in
Ballarat hilarious small boys chase him.
As in Maoriland, barefooted children do not
denote poverty. Most Queensland children go
barefooted. t One boy confided to me that he
wouldn't wear his boots more than half-an hour
on Sunday.
T 1 le further north you go the plainer the women
become. This is true from Melbourne upwards;-


impure Bind
Is Caused by
Sick
Kidneys,
vn
***iijr
<7
V
Everyone knows the purpose of X
a water filter.—to filter the im-
purities from water.
Have you ever reflected for a.
moment on the fact that you have
filters in your system a thousand
times more intricate and delicate
than the water filter—a thousand
times more important, too 1
These filters are the kidneys.
It is their duty to filter from the
blood the impurities which cause disease,
and to pass them from the system.
But sometimes the kidneys get sick through a fall or
strain, exposure, excessive use of liquor, perhaps, or one
of many other causes. Then they become clogged.
It’s no use to try to filter water with a clogged filter ; before the water
can be pui'ified the filter must be cleansed. It should always be kept clean.
The same, exactly, with your kidneys. When they are clogged they
cannot filter the blood properly ; then certain impurities are left in the system
that poison every nerve and organ. These poisons, this unfiltered blood,
cause Anaemia, Jaundice, Eczema, Pimples, Boils, Blotches, Piles, Varicose
Veins, Sallow Complexion, as well as Female Troubles, Neuralgia, Headaches,
Melancholia, and a hundred other ills.
A tonic or purgative medicine will often give temporary relief in cases of
this kind, but the trouble soon returns. It is NO USE to doctor the symp-
toms if you want a lasting cure—you must go to the root of the trouble and
doctor that.
A gardener who is weeding does not clip off the body of the weed, but
pulls it out by the root. The kidneys are the root of troubles brought about
by impure blood, and
loan’s gackache fines Pills
are a medicine specially prepared for Kidney Disorders. They will never
fail to gently aid and soothe the kidneys, and to cleanse them from im-
purities. They cure the root of your trouble, not merely the symptoms.
Entirely vegetable in their composition, they do not injure the system, nor
purge.
You are not asked to believe our statement alone, nor the word of a
stranger living in a distant town, but you are asked to place confidence
in the word of a fellow-resident, who frankly speaks out for the public
benefit.
SYDNEY PROOF.
Farrier-sergeant Grace, Ist Regiment of Australian Bushmen of N.S.W.,
addresses the following letter : “ ‘ Klip Drift,’ March Ist, 1901. Dear Sirs,—l am
very pleased to state that vve have your famous Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills in
the midst of our regiment. I was very much troubled in the early part of the
campaign with pains all over me, especially in the back. You see I was always
trekking about in bad weather, and sleeping on the damp ground, and one would
want an iron constitution to.withstand the inroads on one’s system. Many morn-
ings I have tried to get up, but failed until I obtained assistance. My agony
was often so bad that I felt inclined to rush into the zone of the enemy’s fire and
put an end to my sufferings. All the military doctors who treated me failed to
do me any good. One day-a comrade gave me three boxes of Doan s Backache
Kidney Pills, and told me to try them. The first box eased me greatly, and the
third box cured me. Many of my comrades used them, and they swear by this
wonderful medicine. Indeed, this testimony expresses their gratitude to Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills as much as it does mine. You may use this in any way
you like.”
Anyone wishing to investigate this case now may do so at 18 Glebe-street,
Glebe, where Sergeant Grace lives ; he will give full particulars of his cure, and
of the way Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills earned a good name in S’Africa, as
good a name as they have in Sydney to-day.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for sale by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted, on receipt of
price, by Foster-M'Clellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S-
only the girls on the highlands look fresher as you
go. In consequence of her sallowness the Queens-
land girl admires the man of meat (as the Maori-
lander), and the man with red cheeks (as the young
Englishman). The Queenslanders wno go South
succumb to the Melbourne girls, but this is only
proper. Victorian girls, with their freshness and
vitality, are the fit mothers of Queenslanders.
The wild Irish girl and the gazelle-eyed Lancashire
witch, who have emigrated to Queensland, may
pick and choose ; but beauty does not last long—
the round on the cheek falls in and the dainty
curves puff out, and the pasty pallor usurps the
sanguine color, and only dialect remains.
The police are as easy-going as the people they
keep m order. They seemed to me to be afraid of
stringent action. Shutting the hotel’s bar-door
on Sundays in Queensland is a farce. Inside, the
business goes on just the same. Everybody
walks in as on a week-day. Sometimes a
sergeant gets himself disliked. “Are these 6ona
fide travellers, Mrs. Bung?” he asks. “Can’t
y°u see for yourself they are not?” she snaps.
“Well, I’ll have to caution you,” he says. People
think he is too officious.
Towns are progressive. They get hard knocks
and recuperate like a miracle. They are dear
towns, but business people are very candid.
Might as well live down south if we don’t get
lug profits.” Longreach had years of drought,
and then a fire came along and burnt up the
best part of the town. It was to be expected
that the whole of Longreach would wrap its
last lone garment round its loins and “get.”
There was nothing to look forward to, only rain,
and, as in Bourke, the rain came not. Yet Long-
reach built up the burnt-out spaces and built
better than before. They tell you one good season
will pay for fi ve bad ones. But there are towns
like Bowen which are stagnant enough.
Hotels in the coastal towns are very good. A
great feature of the table is fruit. Almost every
hotel has a Chinese cook and a Chinese offsider.
Unfortunately, the Chinaman is a good cook.
Out back the hotels rate with the N.S.W. pubs. If
you used the butter supplied by some of these
hotels to the boarders, for axle-grease, the wheels
would run hot.
Cairns seems to have most beauty spots about
it. It is a moist, tropical town, which a visiting
parson described as a “ steaming hell. ” Shut in
with volcano-like mountains, there is only one
breeze can cool it. Tiiey tell you that a river once
ran into the estuary, but a volcano burst up in the
channel and diverted the waters into another out-
let. The railway runs through awfully wild, grand
scenery, spoken of as the most beautiful in Aus-
tralia. For my part, the best Bananaland scenery
1 saw was in the vicinity of the Glass Mountain,
near Gympje. Numbers of nun-like rocks tower
above Australian vegetation, delicately-traced,
white-butted gum-trees, with staghorns growing
on them like the gigi of Maoriland; slim, tall
palms and blossoming bauhinia. It had a won-
derfully peaceful effect on one; everything was so
bright, graceful, delicate, cool-looking, and luxu-
riant. As the elegant butts of the white gums
caught the glint of the sunset they seemed like
filigree work of gold. It is strange the metamor-
phosis of the butts of the white gums, so beautiful
and chaste in the sunshine, so weird and spectral
in the shadows, and often so gilded and enchased
between the lights. _ And they never seemed so
lovely as they did about the Glass Mountain.
If I were an artist I would paint a characteristic
bit of scenery between Charters Towers and
Hughenden. Folks would call me an impres-
sionist, but I would paint true to nature. The
ground would be pale saffron, growing bunches of
pale yellow spinifex. There would be colonnades
of yellow jackets, not the yellow jacket familiar
with the western shed of the Dividing Range, but
more of a native apple tree with a rough, mustard-
colored bark and scanty leaves. Then there would
be a shallow tree fringed thickly with pandanus
growing big, pineapple-like cones, and right above
it a sky like bright steel. I can see it now,
always ; but I can’t paint.
I will also remember the tidal inlets of Banana-
land—broad, mangrove-fringed, backed by fig,
beech and bauhinia scrub, and belts of banana
and cocoa-nut, cultivated by Chinese. Here
and there are clusters of palm-leaf gunyahs—the
houses of the aborigines who live by catching
turtle, or who are employed by the Japanese.
On the beach are cranes larger than any native
companions, and sometimes an alligator suns
itself on a half-submerged log. Maybe a China-
man has mysteriously disappeared, when there is
a more than usually peaceful repose about the
alligator.
The track sometimes runs through miles of ant-
heap country, country that is thick with minia-
ture Mount Egmonts, all with a lean to the west-
ward. The new-chum is usually shown this
country as a blackfellows’ necropolis.
There are parts of Queensland outside the juris-
diction of the,law. For instance, I heard it said
when the Governors were out, and later-on the
Kenniffs, that if they once reached Camooweal
district they would be safe. In this place they
tell the yarn of a teamster whose mate had cleared
out with his wife and a goat. He went after the
runaways and first demanded the wife, and when
she was refused he said, “ Well, I’ll summons you
for the goat.” I remember once, when the. engine
broke down, standing and admiring a rich, orange
sunset. Just as I was thinking the sun looked
like a huge pawnbroker’s ball with the other two
set, a enthusiastic fellow came up and started
to tell me incidents of his travels. He was an un-
usual little man for Queensland ; when he told you
anything interesting he would run back two steps
and spread out his hands; when he told you anything
funny he would run back five yards, and wave his
arms as if he were going to do club exercise. He
said he was travelling on the train, with a P.M.,
and the P.M. had arranged with the guard to keep
the train back at eacli station so that he could hold
court on the bare earth—there are very few plat-
forms to.the stations in out-back Queensland. At
one station the constable had a ease—drunken-
ness. “Ye are foined ten bob,” repeated the
constable, bawling into the man’s ear, as he was
deaf. “I’ll punch you on the jaw,’’ said the
prisoner, who had not understood the nature of
the proceedings.
In politics the average Queenslander feels he is
between the devil and the deep sea. He has lost
faith in political honesty altogether. Politically,
he is the most apathetic man in the whole of the
Commonwealth, and he has need of the most
energy. At bottom the electors are Democrats,
but delayed education and immigration, and doc-
tored rolls have been against democracy. Between
Chinese, drought, and cronk Government, it is a
marvel Queensland is as prosperous as it is.
Queenslanders who go to Maoriland to better
themselves, invariably return and tell, “After all,
Queensland is the better place.” There is little
hope for Queensland outside Commonweath
legislation, unless the agricultural people throw
prejudices aside and support the Labor party,
and by supporting it compel it to broaden its
platform.
Bananaland soil raises big crops, but poor
quality grain. An expert told me the soil
lacks lime. Want of lime spoils the horse-
breeding, also. A horse breeder told me that
noraes raised in Queensland lacked stamina. H«
saia a New England horse, or one from Monarc,
will wear out a Queensland horse if the two are
run together. I don’t believe this to be true (f
North Queensland, however, as I was particularly
struck by the splendid type of riding hacks used
up there, in appearance better than anything I’ve
seen in N.S.W. Talking of horses reminds me of
the bushman. The true type of bushman is in
Queensland; the great, soft, shy, silent fellow
who seems to be afraid of the towns. I’ve met
{V ni ih Longreach where he has seen a motor for
the first time. Fine simple fellows when you get
through their reserve; then you learn things you
did not know before.
Queensland is a vast country of many changing
scenes. There is Toowoomba with its green
pastures and red roads, a town which could be
beautified out .of recognition if only the right
people lived in it; Cairns, embowered in tropical
verdure, and Cooktown with its equable climate
and great sport and easy living. I always re-
member Cooktown first, maybe because it is
where the aborigines .flourish better than in any
°^‘* er P ar f of Australia I’ve been in. Men, women
and children flock into town every day, the women
carrying babies swathed in sheets of soft bark, or
carrying naked youngsters, which cling by the
legs round the neck and hang on to the hair.
They carry water, chop wood, scrub floors, wash
clothes and save householders keeping servants.
I went for a walk in the bush, and two young
aborigines approached me. They were armed
with spears and woomeras, and I thought that
™ might be very near me then. I said,
“Show me how you throw your spears.” I
thought it might be at me. Instead, they made a
target ,of a bloodwood, and, more aborigines
appearing,, the spear-throwing became almost a
tribal affair, each one aiming to show me how
good a marksman he was.
I wouldn’t mind living in Queensland, only for
thirst.. Thirst causes me to drink too many iced
soft drinks, and too many iced drinks cause me to
see frozen snakes. . Thirst is the ruin of nearly all
who go to the dogs in Queensland. I know dozens
of hopeless wrecks, all of them spoiled by the
Queensland, thirst. The heat is right till your
great aim is to get cool; brave the sun and it
loses. its terrors. When the heat has captured
you, it is time to come south. Don’t live naked
in a cellar with a man to throw cold water over
you and bring you iced whiskies (as a squatter
actually did), but fly, because what is prosperity
to the man whose thirst constant iced fire-watfer
will not quench ?
ROBERT BROTHERS.
The Little Bush Girl,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was a little, tired bush girl with pathetio
grey eyes and a warm, brown skin, and she had
the weary little droop of the mouth that most bush
women possess. It was after the glare of the day
had died to the more sullen heat of the night that
we left the house, the little bush girl and I, to
wait for the mail at the white gate. So deadly
still was everything as we passed through the
dusty garden that the trickle of water at the weir
and a locust shrilling in the pepper-trees were the
only sounds.
“Hush!” said the little bush girl suddenly—
“ can you hear the voices of the treeß ? Often and
often I come to this gate at dusk and listen. Just
as it grows dark I hear them. First it is a tiny
little whisper away at the foot of the hills. It
grows louder and sweeps on, moaning over the
plain, coming nearer and nearer, till you grow
afraid, for it is the strangest sound ! Then the
trees round you and behind in the dark begin to
stir and sigh till they too have caught it and are
crying—crying brokenly. Then it all dies away
in distance and in the long, grey grass.
Hush ! ” The little voice died to silence, and the
stillness grew and grew till all nature seemed
drowning in it. Then a bird cried hysterically—
and far, very far away, I heard the voice of the
trees.
“Have you ever seen a storm rise?” went on
the low voice intensely. “ Sometimes it beats up
from the south across those miles of trees. You
can hear it coming a great way off; to me it
al ways seems like the ocean warring on its beaches.
I love to watch it crossing the plain, driving the
dust in eddies before it. If they whirl high and
eddy skywards, I know it is a gale of wind, but
when the dust creeps low, and drives right and
left, there is rain—heavy rain—behind.
“It is lonely, O so lonely, this bushland, and
yet it can be very beautiful ! When the flowers
are out, if the heat has not killed the buds
beforehand, they bring a swift loveliness to the
land. The swamps are wonderful, blue and gold
with wild iris and buttercups that hide the dead
logs and broken ground, throwing sheaves of
petals on the dirty water. Often I ride out on
the plains till I am hemmed in by the sky and the
hazy hills, and the earth shimmers away from me
right and left, in clouds of white and pink—and
faint, pale blue colonies of tiny, plain-daisies.
And there are others as if a sunset cloud had
wandered, a gleaming patch of gold; where the
‘little gold pins’ cluster so thickly. And then
the wattles are out in the hollow behind the
house, and the bees drone there the long, lazy
day.”
There was a new lilt in her voice as she stopped,
and in the thin silence a night bird cried from the
swamp.
A faint breeze moved between us and she went
on. “Sometimes lam so lonely lam afraid. A
loneliness that makes you ache for the sound of a
crowd; the feel of people near you ! It is the
night that brings the fear, when you wake and
hear nothing but the birds along the river. I
long for the crowds, who have never seen them.”
She spoke so wearily and sadly. “ Streets I have
never been in. Sometimes I can almost feel them,
the passing of hundreds of people, the rustle of
many women. I can see their lips moving, their
eyes questioning, but I could never hear what
they say.”
Her head dropped on the gate bar. There was
along, long silence. Very far away in the dark
I heard the rumble of the mail; the jingling of
the chains, and the voice of the driver. Then a
swaying top light became visible, lurching through
the trees.
C.A.R.O.
Public analyst of the city of Brisbane now
reports: “ The practice of mixing sulphuric acid
with whisky has at last been discontinued.” Evi-
dently Bananaland is going headlong into the gulf
of reform. A Q. country town (Banana) is thus
officially reported on from the sanitary stand-
point : “No rates, no sanitary system, open cess-
pits, open drains.” A little further: “Seven
cases of typhoid in one humpy ” 1


Used It 20 Years
When My System Was Run Down. When I Was Weak and Miserable.
When I Could neither Eat nor Sleep.
2T
Mr. F. W. Dußieu, of Collingwood,
Victoria, sends us his photograph and
says:
“I certainly ought to know about Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, for I have used it over 20
years. My faith iu it is greater today than
ever. lam anxious to tell every one of its
blood-purifying power and its value as a
remarkable preventive of disease. I don’t
wait until I am down sick before taking it.
Just as soon as I feel weak, exhausted, or
lose my appetite, or don’t sleep well, I
take a few doses, and in a day or two am
all right. I tell my friends to keep it on
hand, for it’s ready then the very day they
want it. I know it has often prevented
me from being seriously ill, and I have
many acquaintances who tell the same
story.” b
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been sold for over half a century. It has been tried
and tested in every way. Nothing like using an old, reliable, and effective
medicine. Intelligent people do not like to experiment. It’s too dangerous.
Unknown and untried medicines often work more serious results than the
disease. When you need a Sarsaparilla, get “Ayer’s,” for it is the oldest,
strongest, and best Sarsaparilla you can buy.
Cling to the kind that has been tested for 60 years. For purifying the blood,
strengthening the digestion, and bracing up the whole nervous system, use
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Tested and Tried by Millions of People
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills. They cure constipation, biliousness
Prepared by SB. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., XT. S. A.
BICYCLE RIDERS.
If you ride a bicycle, you are always liable to
have a fall. Chamberlain’s Pain Balm is the best
liniment for cuts, sprains, and bruises. It will
heal the parts in one-third the time any other
treatment would require. Pain Balm is also
famous for its cure of Rheumatism. Sold every-
where at Is. 6d.*
'im
No Cure, No Pay!
WH'IIIIIIIM lIBMBMMMMMMBMBMMMMMBUIMMWUITMMIIIIIII I ! II <asaamswmiSa*S^3imßmsSßEmß^aßßl!a^
We cure you first and then ask a reasonable fee when you
are cured. You can depend upon our word ; thousands of patients
have endorsed us. Now we want to cure you— with the distinct
understanding that we will not demand a Fee until you are
well. In all cases of Nerve Exhaustion, Stomach, Kidney or
Bladder Trouble, or General Decline, we absolutely give Free
Advice and Treatment.
MEN !—Come or Send to us, and if we cannot cure you, our Advice and Treatment
will Cost You Nothing 1 . We are the only Australasian Specialists who are prepared to
wait for our Fee until a cure is effected.
The Ultzmann Institute offers you advantages never before offered to sick men o*
Australia. The ordinary advertising specialist wants his money before he does anything for you
WE GUARANTEE A CURE OF ALL DISEASES OF MEN.
™ Ultzmann Electro Medical & Surgical Institute,
MARKET & CASTLEREAGH STS., SYDNEY.
Efficiency . . .
is the “ plank of every politician,” and the desire of
the people. They ask that in all direction of the
public welfare the ablest men shall control the
helm, and the best methods employed in order that
the greatest good may result to the greatest number.
In matters which affect the common weal, efficiency
is essential.
BEECHAHirS PILLS are Efficient
In Promoting: Digestion.
In Improving the Appetite.
In Cleansing the Stomach.
In Arousing a Sluggish Liver.
In Regulating the Flow of Bile.
In Purifying the Blood.
In Assisting the Kidneys.
In Dispelling Disease.
In Inducing Peaceful Slumber.
IN FACT
BEECHAM’S PILLS may be termed the
friend in need of the human race, and the
vast benefit they have been to many thou-
sands, during the long years, has earned for
them the unique reputation of being
Worth a.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING-, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors oijly pay for v/feat they actOaliy ba^€.
TERMS.
/
-The Convenient and Modern System ot paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE -Send to ROBERTS’WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
I
I!
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
l ul
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.F.F.S.G., li.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCER ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“ Press Extracts ” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
H. M. Mack (Manila) writes: “ Pollard’s English-
American co. (so-called) is praying at the Zorrilla Theatre,
a large barn of a place that used to house Spanish and
Italian opera in the old days. The * lilliputs ' were an
enormous success, but the ‘ grown ups ’ don’t seem to
have the same luck. Yet they do such things as ‘ My
Friend from India,’ ‘ Charley’s Aunt,’ ‘ What Happened
to Jones,’ ‘My Soldier Boy,’ and ‘Tom,’Dick and Harry’
extremely well. All the Pollard people were vaccinated
on the voyage up, and are only just recovering. A dance
was given at the Hotel de Oriente the night of their
arrival, and Mayor Brown, from Nebraska, who weighs
27st., danced a ‘two step’ (Americans only dance two
steps and waltzes) with Miss Tempest. Thermometer,
. Fahrenheit! There are only six resident Australians
m Manila who dance, and 8000 Americans ! Rain set in
as soon as the co. opened—such rain that it drowned all
dialogue on the stage. Little Jimmy M‘Mahon, of Sydney
Lyceum remembrance, is general manager, as bright as
ever, though shaved clean, so that he appears another
P°™n. After Manila the co. goes to Hongkong, Shanghai,
and then India. Miss Ada Lawrence gets the best press
notices, and her photo, appears in the papers. Mr. C. A.
Pollard is with his ‘children,’ and enjoying cigars wrapped
m gold paper at lid. each. The same cigars in Sydney
would be Is. 6d. Think of that and weep 1"
i-iA. corres P onc * en k rec kons it something of a coincidence
that on one page of a recent Bulletin appeared the
portraits of Miss Fitzmaurice Gill, actress, and Miss
Maggie Papakura, native guide at Whakarewarewa
(Rotorua, M.L.) Miss Gill was the first actress to pro-
fessmnally pourtray a Maori heroine (Kura she was
called) in a Maori drama—“ The Land of the Moa ’’—and
dressed the part exactly like Maggie in the portrait. The
scene of the play was mostly laid at Rotorua where the
geysers and the sulphur and the Sheol are. It was first
produced at Wellington Opera House under the manage-
ment of George Leitch, and after a tour of Maoriland was
taken over to Sydney, where it killed the Dacres —the
final straw which made Arthur Dacre’s ill-balanced mind
tip up was the spectacle of his beloved wife reduced to
playing the part of a brown savage and talking silly
bunkum to other savages. The drama, a hash-up of
Besant s ‘ Over the Sea with a Sailor,” was execrably
written, but Clint’s scenery depicting the eruption at
Xarawera and the Pink Terraces was as good as the best.
A Wellington syndicate ran the show and lost everything,
the scenery and properties being ultimately auctioned in
Sydney. Told of this show that it was the first and last
db record where the management hung this notice on
the office door : “ Members of the company wishing an
advance on their salaries can obtain the same on applica-
to the secretary.” Half the company was trodden under
foot m the rush to the office, and nearly every male over-
drew his salary for two or three weeks and a jiggity jag-
some time ensued. Then the notice was removed. Sophia,
Maggie Papakura’s aged confrere at Rotorua, was
specially engaged for the Sydney season of the “ Land of
the Moa.”
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
The Servian Government is seeking the intervention of
the French Government to prevent late Queen Draga’s
young sister appearing at the Folies-Bergfere, in a “ lyric
narrative ” of the recent tragedy.
“O.K.”: Touching the comparative merits of the
George Rignold company of 1892 and the imported
George Musgrove co. in “ A Midsummer Night’s Dream,”
the first question that arises is, “ Does Tiib Bulletin
belittler of the present co. remember the 1892 produc-
tion ? ” I will give some of the principal names of
Rignold’s “ Dream ” company, comparing them with
present players of the same parts. Hilda Spong, then
a slim damsel of about 17, was the Fairy Queen.
Granting that she was pretty enough for anything,
the youthful Hilda was certainly not prettier
than Miss Nora Kerin, nor quite so sweetly spoken, nor so
capable of acting the woman Titania striving for her
“ rights.” Miss Watts-Phillips, now the comic “ old
woman” of the Willoughby-Geach co., spoke the beauti-
ful lines of Oberon, which Miss Dora Rignold declaims so
melodiously. Miss Watts-Phillips didn’t look the Fairy
King to perfection, and her elocution suffered from an
utter absence of the letter “r.” Miss Blanche Lewis,
never very distinguished as a Shakspearian or any other
sort of actress, took the part that Miss Maud Milton
adorns- in the Musgrove show. Miss Athena Claudius,
now a minor member of the “Sweet Nell” co., played
Helena. Melbourne people who saw Miss Cynthia Brooke
in the character will not be easily convinced that she
couldn’t look or act it better than the previous lady. Miss
Mabel Russell was the Puck in 1892. J. Cosgrove and
Cyril Keightley (the latter a raw, but very promising,
actor at the time) were the two young men lovers.
J. W. Hazlitt and Charles Hall played the Duke and Egeus
now taken by Alfred Bucklaw and Croker King. The six
mechanics of Athens were George Rignold, Stirling
Whyte, J. W. Sweeny, Joe Tolano, A. J, Ivimy and
Frank llarcourt. It goes without saying that Rignold’s
conception of Bottom the Weaver could. challenge com-
parison at any time with the more aggressive, more
playing-to-the-gallery-person that Denny presents. As
to the lesser five comedian parts there is no opportunity
for Athol Forde, Stanley Lathbury, Arthur Coe and the
others to prove their ability. “ Twelfth Night ” and “As
You Like It ” will show what they are made of. In
Melbourne the revelation of youhg Lathbury’s versa-
tility was a surprise, and both he and Athol Forde are,
to my way of thinking, much superior to any of the
comedians who supported George Rignold.”
Melba, to a New York interviewer on the subject of her
Australian triumphs : “ After I had sung crowds of people
used to wait for me outside, and the women and girls
kissed my hands and skirt and threw flowers to me. An
old lady gave me a handful of opals, saying she had
nothing else ; and the blackfellows presented me with
boomerangs. They were all delightfully familiar.” The
“ blackfellows with the boomerangs ” is a delightfully
familiar fiction, anyhow. It has been so often used that
newspaper readers in the other hemisphere think of
Australia as a place where the distinguished visitor is
beset by naked aboriginals, bringing tributes of boomer-
angs, spears, bananas, and corroborees.


LOOK TO YOUR
GARDEN—NOW!
Your Garden wile soon require
Water. Why not buy a Good
Hose for it? It makes garden-
ing EASIER FOR YOU AND GIVES
YOU BETTER CROPS.
Ours is dependable Garden Hose
MADE OF BEST MATERIALS AND WILL
LAST FOR MANY YEARS.
Samples and Prices on Application.
PERDRIAU & CO.,
Rubber Merchants,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NERVOUSNESS.
Si OSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBIUIY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SEEP
CURE, 'will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
æ
Latest
Models
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
3 £2. lO t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using - Stamp. Address Dept 345 D
Mead Cycle Co-
ChicagOf
U.S.A.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
'WORTH INQTOM *
TRADE MARK.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
ǽ
Boiler Feed
PF- SEND FOR
Pump.
James Simpson & CO., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited 9 London
Warren Webster & Co- now jersey.
Enquiries Invited fob .*,**»
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
TJ&.I NTGYES
Stationary and Portable,
For Shearing, Wood & Chaff-Cutting,
Pumping, Electric Lighting, &c.
Solo Representatives in Australia :
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,
Mining & Engineering Furnishers,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
IRRIGATING PLANTS a Speciality.
P.G
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
.
Engineers & General Machinery Merchants.
Sole Agents in Australia for — The Mason Regulator Co., The Pickering Governor Co., The Shedd Electric Co.,
The “ Champion” Lubricating Oils, The Ludlow Valve Co., Stnrtevant’s Fans, The American Pulley Co.
■
a
à
The “ Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Yises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x opens IJin.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, the Adduess m
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, etc., etc.
id
á
T. M. GOODALL & CO., hay st., syphev
have ... stock and to abrive- Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
0 0 _
ă
, vL**-> - , v' K T V :
.
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting,
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
m
m
sr%
Sizh, 51" x 3i" x 5"
We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrytton & Co. Ltd.
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
“Rendrock”
THE NEW EXPLOSIVE COMPOUND
(PATENTED).
“ Cobar Gold Mines, Ltd., July IBth, 1903.
“ I have no hesitation in saying that it is MUCH SUPERIOR to the
old ‘Rackarock.’ It is much stronger and does better work, and is quite as
safe. I think it is the very best explosive for stoping. I have also used it in
the main drive where it did very well indeed.
“JOHN FOX, Manager.”
Consumption about 40001bs. monthly.
——~ * .
PROPRIETORS ■ ii—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Don’t shout”
%
I hear you. t can hear
as well as anybody.
■ "
How?' Oh some
thing new—The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear- ■
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them ,
they're invisible. I wouldn't
know I had them in myself,
only that I hear ali right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
orking parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable ‘
different from any other de-
â
vie• Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request I
tl Col»os Si.. MelP-J
CHEAP AND CURIOUS
NOVELTIES
Puzzles. Games, Toys,
Uncommon
Musical Instruments,
Watches, Guns, Rifles, THAT CANNOT BE
M teioS !e PROCURED ELSEWHERE
Send for our Hundred Page Illustrated Catalogue.
We will post it without charge, and to every applicant
mentioning this paper we will send absolutely free ft
PUZZLESOME PUZZLE.
THE UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY COMPANY,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne,
References' throughout Great Britain and ColonUt*
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
[ Nothing remains -which can
» produce an attack. Yon can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched ; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Beliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. v\ e have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients.
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK S2c
Address: DR. P. HAROLD HAYES’ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE*
Buffalo, N. Y.. U. S. A.
