

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Pest.
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet
g-. *TOr.A.v&x9n3 «&c cso, 9
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS kLWAYS AVAILABLE.
MeLAREN’S Coir pOUMd
Traction Steam Engine*
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE-A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & 0° 85
SYDNEY.
Pitt Street,
Sole Agents for J. & H. McLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers of Steam Ploughing Taokle, Traction Engines for Haulage, Ceneral and Spoolal Work.
We Stock and have to arrive McLaren’s Compound Traction Engines; RUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Steam Engines;
BROAD-ENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES-
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ fnbroken Record as a Starua-d fustixfian Exposlve. Cor. CLARENCE & K»NC_STS II _SYDNEV_
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HOB
-x^y-
Radley’s Orient jjotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Gradb).
j. A. TURNER - • Proprietor.
H.M. the King’s
Jury of Experts
awarded them
highest honors
London Exhibi-
tion-
3
»
*
’a ILk
Al'
“ The Lancet ”
says: ** Pure and
genuine, and
specially suitable
for Invalids.”
£S)
digestion
yj
PIONEER m
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUAR NTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., lii/ St, Sydnej
The Australian Sailorman’s Book—
E. J. BRADY’S
“Che Olays of many maters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
ss. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
E diswan - Lamp.
-tfl W? AM
\V='
3*
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Eave no Worthless
Imitations,
TB EM I SWA N
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-straet,
WYNYARD SQIJARE, SYDNEY.
Q'nsl uitf Depot—Central Buildings- Edward-st., Brisbane.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &o.
Fowler Traction Engines.
i
Engineering C°y.Lt?
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
oTt;
PROOF
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
BOOMERANG
The Lancet states:
“A SOUND, HONEST BRANDY, which
our analysis and examination show
to be of a FRAGRANCE , PURITY and
QUALITY SECOND TO NONE. ”
VISITORB TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS- TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
BT. KILDA.
rrHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, faciag
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
n -
SPOONEE’S
ELM '
SPOONERS
C*
C %
V
v
*
*
WENT
r'LEATHER BOOTS
CLA2EO IrOSM
(*•**«*•« ~
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and In
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing foe
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking.
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, eta.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1202.]
[Saturday, February 28, 1 ( J03.
'Eepstered at fhe Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Book trade Advertisement.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT —r
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Nietzsche, The Dawn of Day, NVs, postage 9d.
Fitchett, N elson arid His Captains, 2s Cd & 3s fid, p. fid
Tweedale, Honeycomb of Life,“2s fid '& 3s fid, p. fid.
Weld, Glimpses Of Tennyson, as fid, p. fid.
Alien, Not in Fellowship, 2s 6(1 & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Cohen, Theoretical Organic Chemistry, 6s, p. 6d.
Sergeant, Woman and a Creed, 3s 6d, p, 6d.
Ronald (Mary), Luncheons : A Cook’s Picture Book,
7s 6d, p. Sd.
Please Write to us for an >/ 1i0.,k or Magazine you Want.
We are always pleased to answer fnqniries.
71 CASTLEREAGH'ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London
For tlie LtrjffG-S, tlae THROAT, tlx® VOICE
. . THjE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
ifaS
%
O
A. The Larynx, or organ oI
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lung
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
' and
Invaluable to
ol N G E RS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSONS EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered),
. . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous dn.y . , ®
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Che mist, Ipswich, Queensland-]**
free on receipt or stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE, and FELTON GRIM WADE & CO.,
Melbourne, Ayents. * ,
THE RED PAGE.
AMONG the realistic pictures in Bush
Studies, take this of the weaning of a
poddied lamb from “ Scrammy ’And”
(the sketch which contains that most
intimate study of a solitary man’s dog, the dog
almost human).
The shepherd is dead in his hut, guarded by
the dog.
Several times that day the ewe and lamb came in,
looked without speculation at the figure on the bunk,
then moved to the dead fire-place. But though the
water in the billy was cold, the dog would not allow
either to touch it. That was for tea when his master
woke. . .
Next day the ewe and lamb came again. The lamb
bunted several irresponsive objects—never its dam’s
udder—baaing listlessly. Though the first day the ewe
had looked at ifce bunk, and baaed, she was wiser
now, though sheep are slow to learn. Around that
dried dish outside the lamb sniffed, baaing faintly.
Adroitly the ewe led the way to the creek, and the
lamb followed. From the bank the lamb looked at
her, then faced round to the hut, and baaing disconso-
latelv, trotted a few paces back. From the water’s edge
the mother ewe called. The lamb looked at her vacantly,
and without interest descended. The ewe bent and drank
sparingly, meaningly. The lamb sniffed the water, and
unsatisfied, complained. The hut was hidden, but it
turned that way. Again the ewe leisurely drank. This
time the lamb’s lips touched the water, but did not drink.
Into its mouth raised to bleat a few drops fell. Hastily
the mother’s head went to the water. She did not drink,
but the lamb did. Higher up, where the creek was dry,
they crossed to tender grass in the billabong, then joined
the flock for the first time. \
Is not that admirably seen and shown ?
The picture of selector Ned drawing a cheque—
Ned was no favourite among women. This was partly
from his being “ flash,” but more from his reputation for
flogging his missus. Ned, moreover, had tried to force
his example on the male community by impressing upon
them his philosophy, that it was the proper thing to Hit
a woman every time you niet her, since she must either
be coming from mischief or going to it. As to his flash-
ness, he considered he had something to he flash about.
He had been twice to Sydney ; and not only could lie
spell by ear, but, given an uncertain number of favouring
circumstances, he could use a pen to the extent of
putting his name to a cheque.
Certainly, before he would attempt this, Liz, his
missus, had to pen up the goats, shut the hut,
and, with the dogs and the kids, drive the fowls
a mile from the house, and keep them there till
Ned fired a gun. Left to himself, Ned would tear out a
cheque, lay it on the table, place a block of wood on the
bottom edge of the paper, to keep his hand from travel-
ling off it to the table below. Then he had to tie his
wrist to the left side of his belt—ho was left-handed—in
such a manner that his hand could not stray to
the foreign region above the cheque, ink the pen
with his right hand, and place it in the left. But
even then the task was often unaccomplished.
Sometimes he would be so intent on trying to keep the
Edward on the line, that it would run to the end of the
paper, excluding the Stennard , and, despite Ned’s pro-
tests anent insufficient space, the bank did not approve
of part of the signature being placed on the back of the
cheque. When he tried to write small and straight, the
result generally seemed satisfactory till a careful analysis
showed a letter or so missing. Or, just as success seemed
probable, his cheque book would give out, or his pen
break.
It was bad for Liz and her own boy Joey when
either of these accidents occurred, for he would fire no
gun, and, despite all the perspiring activity of Liz, the
kids, and the dogs, some of the fowls would make their
way home to roost on the hut when night came. For
allowing him to be disturbed “ jes as I wus gettin’ me
’and in” he would “take it outer” Liz, or what was
worse to her, “ outer ” Joey.
Jt
“Jyne,” a selectorWwife —
The most pronounced feature of Jyhe’s face was her
mouth, and it seenjed proud of its teeth, especially of the
top row. Without any apparent effort, the last tooth
there was always visible. She was a great power in the
bush, being styled by the folk themselves- “ Babbit
Ketcher,” which, translated, means mid-wife. And the
airs Jvne gave herself were justifiable, for she was the
only “ Rabbit Ketcher ” this side of the township. To
bring a qualified mid-wife from civilisarion would have
represented a crippling expenditure to these cookies.
Jyne’s moderate fees were usually four-legged.
Jt <2*
Bush Studies represents one-phase of Australian
life, in one place, at one time ; and it would have
been well if the author had said this in a preface,
for foreign readers are sure to refer the descrip-
tions to Australia generally. Blit the scenes and
people of the book still exist in north-western
’ New South Wales and elsewhere ; and, never has
the desolate barbarism of the Bush been so power-
fully depicted. One revolts in reading; for the
ghastly facts endure within a day’s journey of the
pleasant bustle of Sydney, that great cancer-city
sucking the blood of the Bush for its sustenance.
If ever a statesman arises in Australia, it will be
a cardinal feature of his statesmanship (so far as
Govt, expenditure goes) to starve the gross
cities so that the men and women on the land,
the essential creators of Australia, may be
helped to a life with some breadth, some huma-
nity, .some intellectual aspiration. True : the
author of Busk Studies is a jaundiced observer;
all her experiences have been tragic: all her
impressions are impressions of horror and disgust.
For her, the Bush epithets are natural—
The oaths and adjectives so freely used were surely
coined for such circumstances. “ Damned” the wretched,
starving, and starved sheep looked and were ; “ bloody ”
the beaks of the glutted crows ; “blasted” the whole'of
the plain they drove through !
There is another side to the Bush story: a side
with pleasant homesteads, successful labour,
prosperous seasons ; but in many districts the evil
side is the prominent side, in some districts there
instill no other. Spasmodic charity in time of
drought can help little: there is no redemption in
pauperising doles or in the cast-off dresses of
Lady Bountiful, however useful their momentary
boon, however excellent the sentiment inspiring
them. Only the strenuous and.persistent aid of
Government, directed on a wise policy, can make
much of the life Out-Back worth living. Men on
the land—they can endure ; but the women ? and
the children ? What crop is Australia reaping
while money is lavished on “relief works” and
on city improvement ?
&
Before leaving Bush Studies note two things:
one that its truthful glimpses of Australian life,
graphically expressed, could not (would not) have
been printed in any Australian paper, though they
rank highly as literature and are circulated widely
in book form when issued by an English pub-
lisher. We are too mealy-mouthed (in print),
and stuff far too much “respectable” wadding in
our ears. With all their breadth in some direc-
tions, Australian audiences are still parochial, or
the newspapers make believe they are. The
second thing is this : Busk Studies, written to the
fact, stresses what may be called the pre-
dominantly obstetric quality of typical Bush
life. This quality comes naturally : the increase
of tiocks and herds is the daily business, the source
of living income. There is no prudish shame in
referring to the accidents of begetting and birth :
they form the staple of conversation in many a
home, and the children calmly discuss chances
with their parents. Transference of ideas to the
human species is easy ; for apart from begetting
and birth the Bush yields to many of its denizens
little excitement, scanty diversion of monotonous
occupation. So Busk Studies has already appeared
' ‘ shocking ” to some city critics, smug in the solace
of churches, and theatres, and “ down-the-
harbour” picnics. But the thing goes on.
Criticism begins with prayer and the assertion
that when a novelist pulls your intimate emotions
he ought to hide his strings. When he leaves
the ends hanging out so that . . . (let us mix) . . .
you can watch yourself being cut up on his dis-
secting-table . . . (this is due to the prayer) . . .
how does your disgust differ from that erf the
struck eagle Byron stole from Waller ?
Frank Norris is the god of that American
machine-scnool of writers which tells a stylist like
Joseph Conrad (by the mouth of Munsey’s Maga-
zine) that his work would be much improved by
the free use of a city editor’s blue pencil ! You
can see the machine-school busy every month in
McClure's Maga. —producing articles and stories
which are models of their kind, trenchant and
brilliant as the best product of the Steel Trust.
Journalism admirable, but . . . mechanical, the
literary triumph of a mechanical nation in a
mechanical age, hard, clear, and pitilessly precise.
Yet it is the Amer. Father Tabb who urges
Hozo sterile is the sunshine,
How masculine the blue,
That breeds no shadow, nor betrays
A memory of dew !
Norris’s latest book (and last—though S.M.
Herald encourages him to continue . . . in the next
world, presumably, since he died at San Francisco
last year) is a study of the Chicago wheat-ring,
The Pit (Sydney; Angus and Robertson). The
book was designed as second of a trilogy
(the first was The Octopus, the third is un-
written). It is a fine piece of work, and
holds some breathless pages; but it is nob
as fine as The Octopus, and even The Octo-
pus fell short of Norris’s notion of an epic story
planned in the manner of Zola and executed by
the methods of the U.S.A. The Octopus had a
touch of epic quality ; The Pit is episodical, though
epic references are hammered on with half-ounce
tacks, like the blind on an American spring-roller.
Contemplating the story apd the author’s unerring
handling of the obvious, one is reminded of the
Chicago pork-packer’s pride in his creation-
licking apparatus. In The Pit the reader is the
pig. Here he is stuck ; there he is carried on an
endless belt to be scalded and scraped ; yonder
he is halved and quartered; and at the end
of the book he emerges as pork secundum
artem. If he isn’t pork he ought to be,
for Norris’s apparatus cannot ■ lie any more
than a camera can. He presses the button, and
you have no option but to do the rest—if there is
any faith in formulae. Lo, the characters, scru-
pulously balanced and contrasted ! 10, the motives,
electric-lit, so that even a lady cannot mistake
them ! 10, the phrases, the incidental relief, every-
thing complete and up-to-date, including the
Wagner lead ! and, finally, there is an absorbing
story of a dramatic phase of life. We can con-
ceive the spirit of mechanical America asking, in
amaze : “ What more does the fellow want ? ”
<£*
Yes ... a readable story, a skilful piece of
work; but it is scieuce, not art. If literature
implies good art, then Norris’s is bad science,
since art should conceal science, even if science
do not reveal art. (And that, we flatter our-
selves, is a sentence which will bear some study.)
♦ ;
On Jan. 17 (following a suggestion in The Maga-
zine of Commerce ) bookfellows were asked to throw
into sonnet form this passage, from London
Standard’s commercial column—
Wheat opened steady*and unchanged, and developed a
buoyant tone on firm cables, a bullish “ Price Current
Report,” covering of shorts, and liberal export shipments.
The market later declined on realising, sympathy in corn,
and a slack export demand, and closed efisy at Jc. to
fc. fall. Spot easy.
The task proved too difficult for those who essayed
it —Mitty, Frank R., Hix, E.F.G., E.W.D.—five
stalwarts only. This from E. F. G. Jolley, Mary-
borough, Vic. (to whom 10s. has been forwarded)
is the best sonnet received : Frank R’s ranks next.
Unchanged and steady in the opening .fair
Stands wheat; its buoyant tendency is fanned
By firmness, too, in overseas demand,
A “ Current Price Report ” of bullish air
Towards higher figures.also lends its share,
And eager buyings by the luckless band
Who sold the stocks they never had in hand,
Whilst foreign shipments pi-ices upward bear.
But oh, that steady progress cannot be
Maintained, alas, for holders realise,
And stocks with drooping corn mart sympathise,
While foreign shipments ease, being overshot.
So prices fall from \ c. to 3
With market easy. Fre'e demand for spot.
“Free demand for spot” is not warranted by the
text: “3” is too vague; and there are other
holes: nevertheless, the result is commended to
The Standard, on the ground that such a use of
letters emollit mores of the Stock Exchange, nec
sinit bulls and bears esse feroces. Though a
contrary view may be taken.
dX jx
Rossetti might have dealt with the subject in
this way—
FOR
A LONDON COMMERCIAL
BY OUR REPORTER.
(In The Standard.)
Wheat, for the anguish of the starving : — nay,
The market opens steadily,—but lean
And hark how at. its verge cables sigh in
Determined. Ha ! then buoyantly away ;
For shorts are covered at the brink of day,
And export shipments tug upon the string
That sobs, while operators rise to sing
The Price Report is bullish ! .Do not stray :
On realising, prices downward creep ;
There’s sympathy in com-Mill corn is grass,
And cool again the export side. let be
Say nothing unto bulls for fear they weep
One to three-eighths cent fall. —Close easy was ;
Spot easy. (So is immortality.)
Of course, Rossetti is dead.
+
Gilbert Murray is Sydney-born (1866) and scion
of a well-known Australian family, so Lond. re-
viewers’ praise of his just-published translation of
Euripides interests us. “He is one of the very
few translators,” writes The Academy, “whose
work gives the effect, not of a translation at all,
but of a substantive poem. More than adequate
in the dialogue, he rises at times in the lyrics to
heights of quite extraordinary' felicity.” And
this version of a chorus from the “ Hippolytus ” is
given in proof—
Could 1 take me to some cavern for mine hiding,
In the hill-tops where the Sun scarce hath trod ;
Or cloud make the home of mine abiding,
As a bird among the bird-droves of God !
Could I wing me to my rest amid the roar
Of the deep Adriatic on the shore,
Where the water of Eridan us is clear,
And Phaethon's sad sisters by his grave
Weep into the river, and each tear
Gleams, a drop of amber, in the wave.
To the strand of the Daughters of the Sunset,
The Apple-tree, the singing and the gold :
Where the mariner must stay him from his onset,
And the red wave is tranquil as of old ;
Yea, beyond that Pillar of the End
That Atlas guardeth, would I wend ;
Where a voice of living ivaters never ceaseth
In God’s quiet garden by the sea,
And Earth, the ancient life-giver, increaseth
Joy among the meadows, like a tree.
JX
“ Nil ” writes :
I complain that many poetasters use constantly the
form a-shine for shining, a-fiow for flowing, and so on.
Instances : A-quiver for quivering, a-roarn for roaminq
( The Bulletin, 7/2/3, p. 3). Others (from memory) are
a-kiss for kissing, a-cry for crying, a-brood for brooding—
and hundreds worse. Some words are used this wav by
time-honoured custom and are euphonious so. But the
habit, as a habit, is inelegant, clum'sy, and so patentlv
the outcome of literary laziness t hat it is time fairly good
rhymesters gave it up. Admittedly it makes a certain
class of words come in suitably in a certain class of
rhythm ; but that rhythm is usually the kind that I have
called to myself “The Australian Metre,” and is the
easiest, “ cheapest” thing of its kind. Here’s a bit of it
written at random :
When the lcookoo-burra’S kookoo comes a-lwugh across the
flat,
And the wattle is a-blossom, and the cricket is a-chat
And the poet is a-scribble and the billy is a-boil,
And the household cat a-kitten and the evening chop
a-spoiL
Oh ! it’s THfix my soul’s a-wobble and my aching head
a-spin,
I’m a-dream, a-gape, a-bubble, and I long to be a-sin !
And so on.
JX
This complaint, generally speaking, is not well
made. A language lives or dies ; but while it lives
it grows, and you cannot stop the growth, though
you may try to direct it. “Nil” confuses cate-
gories when he says that time-honoured usage
makes words euphonious: euphony is independent
of usage. And time-honoured usage began from
some innovator’s usage, good or bad: to-day’s
innovators are creating to-morrow’s timei-honoured
usage.
jx je
Looking to particulars: “Nil? is trying to bar
one of the widest gates that time-honoured usage
has opened to innovators. For many centuries
people have been dealing almost as they chose
with the convenient A shortening in or on or of
into A, Tor example; and some of the usages are
accepted as correct and elegant, The usage that
“Nil” decries is often correct, elegant, and
euphonious: more, it is necessary, for often we
cannot attain our meaning otherwise. Browning’s
A cornfield s ide a-flutter with poppies (Men and,
Women, ii, Ilf!)
does not give to the ear, to the eye, or to the mind
the message given by
A cornfield side fluttering with poppies.
That a-flutter expands the image: it showers
poppies over the field and sets them in motion:
fluttering has comparatively little meaning, yields
comparatively a weak picture. Even in prose you
feel the same need : “rocks awash at low tide”
tells a story: to “rocks washing at low tide”
there are obvious objections.
Then we have abed, ashore, afield, asleep— and
why not a-dream ? Some of “Nil’s ” burlesque in-
stances are accepted as good English : e.g.
a-wobble, agape, even alml (Hugh Miller writes’
“set his Scotch blood aboil’’—and “Nil” is a
Scottish complainant). So that we must take
every case on its merits. A-quiver, a-cry, a-brood
might be correctly used ; a-roarn was certainly in’,
elegant as used by “ Riverina
breezes are a-roam ;
but a-roam and even a-kiss might be justified by a
poet. ■ , v‘ , ’VHTB
♦
The active correspondent—
E.W.D. writes : “ The Canadian Men and Women of
the Time (Toronto ; 1898) says of W. Bliss Carman that
he ‘is descended on both sides from Loyalist stock. One
of his father’s family was an original grantee of Parrtown
(St. John’s, N. 8.), while his mother was great-grand-
daughter of Daniel Bliss, the Tory lawyer, of Concord,
Mass.’ Both Bliss and Carman are common names in
Canada.”
“Ignotus” complains : “ Both N.Z. Times and Welling-
ton Post refused to print this advt., though in the ease of
the Times it was originally accepted and paid for-
ty anted Private Lodgings for married couple. No
children. Limit £3. Smells Of onions or dirty house-
maid absolutely barred. Apply “ Banker,” Times
office.
Will you explain to my dull mind why I may not say I
cannot five in a frowsy slum? What is the etiquette of
the matter? Would The (Iondon) Times have re-
fused the advt. ? Would you ? ” The Times pro-
bably would have refused it, bowing to the fetish
of “ respectable journalism ” : The Bulletin, more
human, would have accepted it. But you have no
grievance. A newspaper proprietor accepts for his news-
paper the advts. he chooses, just as he welcomes to his
home the guests he chopses. You have no more right to
enter his newspaper, uriwelcomed, than you have to enter
his home.
Yabber, T.P.C., itiverina, C.K.8., A.E.M., Tamos:
Thanks J.B. : Better collect evidence, load and fire
again.
Croyez (a member of the Eyre family), in forwarding a
copy of the family crest, duly headed by the leg in armour,
writes: “ Hume got bis history wrong. The crest given
at Hastings was a helmet or casque ; the leg was lost, and
a second crest given, at a subsequent battle. There is no
‘ fable ’ about the atory.”
£
Memoranda/
Deceased Brdt Harte left £360 only—or ostensibly.
Evasion of Eng. death duties by ante-mortem gift is
common.
“ Quilp N.,” whose verses are nearing a Maoriland port
of publication, was bom in county Durham, England, in
1876. At four years of age he came with his folk to
Dunedin, and four years later to Brisbane, where the
Grammar School claimed him. In 1892 he settled in
Wellington. He has never lived out of sight of salt
water ; his thoughts move with the swing of the seas to
the rumble of shafting ; and he is occupied as an insur-
ance clerk—not even a marine insurance clerk!
President Roosevelt has been forced by an outory of
women to remove Watts’s fine picture, Low and Life,
from a public to a private apartment in the White House.
The picture is designed and executed as purely as a
picture can be ; but prudes object to the mere nudity of
the side-turned female figure. When Watts presented
his picture to the American nation it was hung in the
White House, but similar outcry occasioned its removal
to a museum, whence Roosevelt recently extricated it,
“ We air a great country, sir” ; but 1
Pierre Lafitte, leader of the French Positivists, died
some \Veeks ago. Frederic Harrison, leader of the
Positivists in England, addresses weekly audiences of a
score or so of disciples in Clifford’s Inn, London. From
the great scheme of Comte to Harrison’s conscientious
mumble over his array of four-inch idols—busts of
thought-leaders from M. Aurelius to Auguste himself—is
a sad fall, my regenerative masters !
His sister-in-law, Harriet Jay, has written the Lift of
Robert Buchanan, for Lond. publication last month.
Lawson's historic “fall” has given him a fine advt.,
anyway. It is in the nature of advt. that the incidents
are not precisely satisfactory. This, from The Vail)
Chronicle, Loud., Jan. 13, reaches us “ with the compli-
ments of J.F.ll.”—“There is sad news by yesterdays
Australian mail concerning Mr. Henry Law' so ’’’
one of the best known and most popular ot
colonial poets and story-tellers. He was found o;
a fisherman lying at the foot of a cliff near the
entrance to Sydney Harbour. He had fallen a distances
eighty ('.) feet, and, as he seemed to be out of his mind,
he was taken to a police-station, and from there to the
Sydney Hospital, where an examination revealed a frac-
tured leg and other injuries. Mr. Lawson had only re-
cently returned to Sydney from London. Earl Beauchamp
and other admirers had raised a fund to enable him t
prosecute a literary career in England, but he could n
stand the climate. During his sojourn here he pubnshe
a couple of books, and contributed to Black-wood an
other magazines. He has been thfe best and most realist
interpreter of bush life and character.”
Waifs— ’
Bones, M. 8.: Well, what do you think of the Balmain
affair?— Arteries, M.D. : Think L . . . We have an anti-
septic treatment for patients, and Together : Now
we need one for the Profession I
Thus . . the difference of realistic from idealistic art
is Dryden’s difference of Timotheus from Cecilia—
He raised a mortal to the skies ;
She drew an angel doum!
Praise must be always comparative, for the ideal towers
ever unattained ; but blame can be positive, nay superla-
tive, since the abyss Of idiocy is reached every Neild-day-
After reading Froude’s “Carlyle”: All creators are
irritable, from the pregnant woman to the pragnan
writer. You bet it'was n’t safe to go near Jehovah during
the six days when he was making heaven and earth. He
have snapped your soul off. g g '
HANS ANDERSEN.
Dear master of the faint flute of the herbs,
The crystal revel of the stream that .Hows
By magic furroivs where the wind disturbs
Rich, drony mo‘hs upon the plaited rose ;
Alone thou hearest where the wild swan dips
His crest beneath the torrent of the morn ;
Alone thou seest from his tender lips
The sun's last smile to faery Matterhorn /
The nightingale, that in a forest sj ent
Her lovely soul in music for a lord
Of empiry, distilling b’and cortmt,
Threw all herself to thee as thou adored ;
She is not of the earth, and thou art free
From low communion, like her quivering ivings,
That ache for all despair that song can be —
Th’ impenetrable heart of sacred things.
Through thee the loioliest do achieve renown,
The unsought grace of solitmte is theirs,
But thou dost give src\ eremites a crown,
From thee they take our happiness and tears ;
What if the violet leans athwart a stone,
And hears but rivulet or nightingale —
Her secrecies surprised by thee alone
Shall charm young hearts in immemorial tale.
Wh at largesse of all magic ! Does the bird
Lament thee in her thicket ? Shall her note
Fall ivhere alone a stealthy leaf is stirred
By sleeping castle in a sleepy moat ,
Aral never heart be there her song to tell,
Nor any cunning weaver of her brain ?
Shall ive for ever watch the citadel,
And never see th? sanctuary again ? •
M.i,
H.C.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDKTE "ST.
BUTCHERS!
Send your
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
TO——
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick Returns.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMOMT.
Sole Commission 3 JPer Cent, to tlie Grower
011 Lars© and. Small A.cc ou.nta A.lilte,
S. FREEMAN SONS UNITED
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE: WTN7AED SQUARE. SYDNEY.
TRADE
FOX
MARK
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
ONLY OF THE WORD FOX
which is a guarantee of soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges & Tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience . . .
FOX’S PURE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market. All FOX’S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the back —
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are not ge mine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS & Co., Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOMERSEI, England.
EITHER CRACK
saoa
NOR BURN.
0*
CP *>
6806
CBB
6807
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.— Should any el our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bara a
New One will bo Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe.
RICHMOND, VA.^
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
“SOLID SHOT” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
Sole Agent for C. 8.8. Briar Pipes.
Send for Whole sale Price Lists.
Arkansas” Mixture
A Blend of the very highest grade Tobaccos.
Packed in lib. Tins, 7s. 6d. lb.
Sample £lb. Tins, 25., post free.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
The “Enterprise” ,
Rubber Massage Roller
and Restore**
Beauty in Na-
ture’s own way.
The cup-shaped teeth have a
suction effect on the skin that
smooths out wrinkles, rounds out
the beauty muscles, and gives per-
fect circulation of the blood.
It is so constructed that it treats
every portion of the face and neck
perfectly, even to the “crow’s
feet” in the corners of the eyes.
Price of Roller - - - -
(with FREH Sample
Jar of “SKIN --
FOOD")
4/6
Post
Free.
Box 133, Q.P.O.
THE ENTERPRISE CO., melb.
When ordering please mention thie paper.
Qfldfn/!
A HEALTH BOOK.
It tells you how to cure yourself, how to regain your lost strength,
how Nature helps up men who are down, it shows you how and why
Electricity is Life, and it will put you on to the road to perfect health.
It is full of honest facts about
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
I
u.
A
VII
Wilwt
We know that no man remains a weakling because he wants to ; we are sure that you want to overcome every indication of
early decay that has shown itself on you. We don’t think the man lives who would not like to feel as big and strong as a Sandow,
and we know that if you have a reasonable foundation to build upon we can make you a bigger man than you ever hoped to be.
We want you to know that—you who can’t believe it, and we want you to have our book, in which we describe how we learnt
that manly strength was ONLY ELECTRICITY, and how we learned to restore it; also we want to tell you the names of some
men who will tell that when they came to us they were physical wrecks, and are now among the finest specimens of physical
Our famous Belt makes vigorous, muscular men of the puniest, weakest specimens of “ half men ”; it expands and develops
every muscle and organ in the body ; it warms the heart, increases the courage, and gives a man power of mind and body such as
m m Pin be Droud of It makes the eye bright and the step elastic ;it makes an athlete of a sluggard. It cures disease by
restoring strength It is a quick and lasting cure for all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES, RHEUMATISM, PAINS in the BACK
Ind HIPS, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, CONSTIPATION, INDIGESTION, VARICOCELE, WEAK KIDNEYS, LOSS OF
MEMORY, and all evidences of breaking down. It cures when all else has failed.
Our Belt is about 400 per cent, cheaper than any other because
no Drug auxiliaries are required in conjunction.
Dr. IflcCaughlin Co*
85 King Street, Sydney.
Melbourne Offices: 167 E Swanston Street.
FREE DIAGNOSIS.
If you will write for our book and
statement blank, we will diagnose
your case, entirely free of any cost.
THERE IN NO CATCH TO THIS STATEMENT. We make no
charge, except the price of a Belt, if you decide to buy one. You
should read the book, anyhow ; it is full of good things for a sick man
to see. Beautifully illustrated, ai.d sent free to any address. Post
paid. Our Belts are sent everywhere—DUTY FREE.
Angel Terrace, Coolgardie, W.A.
Dear Sirs,—l got your Belt after all the doctors here had given
me up—after all the hospitalsvhad passed me as an incurable. I had
Sciatica so bad that I could neither work nor walk. I wore the Belt
two nights, and the pain stopped. In a week I had no pain, and
began to mend ; in a month I was out prospecting again, and I
would like to meet a man more grateful to you than I am. I don’t
don’t think I ever will.
P. VV. KELLY.
Turna, Upper Thames, New Zealand.
Dear Sirs,—Your letter to hand. I would have answered it
sooner, but I have been away from Turna for six weeks, consequently
I did not get your letter till I returned. Many thanks for your
enquiries about my health. lam glad to inform you that I have
received great benefit from the Belt, and it is working alright. All
the stiffness has left my back, and there is but little pain, in fact I
keep improving every day.—l remain, yours ever gratefully,
N. C. NEILSEN.
12 Durham-street, Port Melbourne.
Dear Sirs,—lt is with great pleasure that I am able to give you
my testimony as to the wonderful curative powers of your High-
grade Electric Belt. I was suffering for a long time from rheu-
matism, lumbago, congestion of liver and kidneys, and chronic
dyspepsia, and was badly run down ; but now after four months,
wearing your wonderful Belt, I am free from all my former troubles,
and am my own man again. I give you this so that you may publish
it in the interests of fellow-sufferers. Anyone may call upon me if
they want further information, and I will gladly give it.—Gratefully
yours,
STEVEN LEE.


SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renowned
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT :
231 Clarence St„
SYDNEY.
CORSET SHIELDS
PATENT
IM
fa’Okns'
COKSnSHttLD
f^GKtis
(nKtxSmuo
DOUBLE
THE LIFE
OF YOUR >
CORSET
“Prevention is better than Cure”
and the Oktis Corset Shields, put into a new Corset, prevent split seams
and broken bones, and more especially that ugly ridge that so soon
appears, and spoils the appearance of the best fitting gown.
It does not Increase the Size of the Waist
AsK for the
On
OKTis, and see that you are not put off with imitations,
each one appears the name “P. &, S.—OKTIS—P. & S.”
The
Oidsmobiie
m
We can make you a
delivered price at your
nearest port on the most
practical automobile run-
about that is made.
5,000 are now in daily
use, giving complete satis-
faction. They sell in
America for $650.00
(/* l 3°) and freight to this
Made
in
America
and
shipped
here
for
a very
reason-
able
price
point is not large—quick delivery.
The Oldsmobile will run over any passable road, climb
steep hills, is almost noiseless, has a speed of 25 miles
an hour; will run 30 miles on a gallon of gasoline.
The construction is simple. There is no fire, no
boiler to burn out; nothing to watch but the road ahead
and nothing to get out of order. Starts at ease from
the seat —and no experience is required to run it.
Write for handsome illustrated book sent free.
Olds Motor Works,
Detroit, Michigan, Um Sm Am
CLOTHED WITH AIR
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recoin-
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Aertex Cellular Underwear
is a Sure Preventative against Chills
w
Cellular Neglige Shirts,
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling-, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body—
-9s 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs — 6s 6d, 7s 6d
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations*
High or Low Necks.
s. d.'
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 5 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..76
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 9 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery .. .. .. 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..9 0
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
*
m
i
V
A r*ll«U * rv iomicoc White Cotton, trimmed Embroidery,
Aertex untiiar tnemises. 8s White L j S i e , heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices. “&».
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Sole Agents.
m
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. Cd. to 11s. 6d.
f *'« ''V v* * «>> y •* .*
>«.* 4**. 4t «
<» «. *.* V »***«*. ».•**!
tO- <*,<> <» «* «»» O O «1
4«> « » « * v » . ♦ . *w
!<•*>* 4* <*/<» 0 41 <>
t . 4 » «*»**•■•***’
*4% 4*: ft «*>
• * # * ♦ 4 •»♦ * ■ V »«
«♦! vV «* «»> O <♦ O 41
. . » « » . » •
4f 0 4* ft 0 <it <' 4»
■ > . 4 » »«’»»■*. « * *4
<> .* ~<t
_ . . 4...
4* *'* •«* 4*, •* ' '
s • ■cti ** s *
A Piece of
Aertex Cellular Fabric.
Fabrics by the yard or piece—In
Cottons, 8d. to Is. 9d. ; Lisle
Thread, Is. 3d. to 2s. ; Silk and
Cotton Mixture, 3s. 6d. ; Merinos
and Wools, 3s. 3d. to 4s. 9d.; Silk
and Merino Mixture, 4s. 6cL_ .
Sendfor^un_Price_Ust^_^
Aertex Cellular Corsets*
Fitted real Greenland Whalebong.
s. <£
Cl Ecru 13in. deep 15 6
C2 ,, long waist, 14£in deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14iin., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips ..15 0
D1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. .. 86
1
Carter's
There’s SECURITY in
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
They TOUGH the
Be
_ „ , Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
LSVER
Sure they are Carter's
TATTERS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will ple.se forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4J.. for every .£l, and so on.
NOW OPEN
NEWMARKET H’CAP—Flemington, Vic., Feb 28 100,000 at 5/1
AUSTRALIAN CUP—Flemington, Vic., March 3 50,000 at 5/1
DONCASTER H’CAP—Randwick, N.S.W., April 11 25,000 at 5/1
SYDNEY CUP—Randwick, N.S.W., April 13 ... 25,000 at 5/1
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.


M.
(#1
If you are young,
you naturally ap-
>pear so.
If you are old,
why appear so?
Ay er’s Hair V igor
will surely restore
color to your gray
hair, and will give
to it all the
wealth and
gloss of ear-
ly life. It
will stop
falling of
the hair
also; and
will keep
the scalp clean and healthy, entirely
free from dandruff.
And it makes the hair grow thick
and long. This is because it is a hair-
food, giving to the hair just what it
needs to make it grow as nature in-
tended.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
There’s a pleasure in offering to you
such a preparation ; while you will cer-
tainly feel a sense of security in using
something that others have used for
half a century.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM*
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed,
illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
ilairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
Given
away
THIS MONTH
...t0...
Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
Write To-Day.
Send
Postal Note.
2/6
The Bunch
Post Free.
3 Black Tips with Ospreys. A Marvel of Cheapness.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
THE No. 0..
FOLDING
POCKET KODAK
PUT
IT
IN
YOPR
WAISTCOAT
POCKET.
PRICE 31/" ONLY.
Full Particulars of all Dealers or of
KODAK Ltd.,
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER.
S€ND OS
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In' Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 60/- each, and
will carefully' pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10/6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
38/- per Uulf-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
Australian Mutual Provident Sociotv
Established 1849. p or p/f e Assurance on the Mutual Principle. *
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Seourlty of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
at lowest current rates of interest
°' ”” ins ■»“ 2o p »
lrectors Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A W Mefks \r t p n»n„t„ ov, • „
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; J. Abbott Esa • The linn i? i S' > D eP ut y-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
HFA G n'miuiTnp naerer and Actuar y—Richard’teece’ F.1.A., FF A FSS ’ ' ' ’ F - E - Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 P.TI STREET, SYDNEY. ’ B. CAMERON.
B
hwou^sv.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108'
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sfc.,
SYDNEY.
S£W Send for a
Catalogue.
Went Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St M Sydney
straight Shaft 3-Spring Bulkies, £Blos
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
■ MT ■ m m _ _ 2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING marine oil engines.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
.-V
Noiseless Uuderwater . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KINC ENUINE— ONE REVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE '
IV£L c JLJ 353 R. TV/r "T" c> __ ‘
A x & co mp a.nxr y,
30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
= \ :
41
Hotelkeepers, make your own
ABATED WATERS
THE ‘.AUSTRAL” CRATED WATER MACHINE JC cumes
0 ,J Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTTLES
per day of ; Finest Waters (Lemonade Gine-er Alo qTjT
&c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PERDOZEN. Thesf
SouthTfrßa ” g “ ““ the Australian New Zealand, and
Write For Prices and Particulars.
So(,b Proprietors and Manufacturers
ECKERSLEY ANP SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne*
Most makes of .22 caliber cartridges are as variable as some
men’s watches. Cartridges out of the same box won’t
shoot alike. Some go high, some go low and some don’t
go at all. This is not true of
WINCHESTER
.22 Short and .22 Long Cartridges.
They shoot well all the time, and shoot just where you hold.
Special powder made according to carefully determined and
tested formulas is used in loading Winchester Cartridges
and every bullet is swaged by special machinery which
makes them uniform in size, weight and density. This
modern method of manufacture coupled with a rigid sys-
tem of tests makes Winchester Cartridges better than any
other brand on the market. A trial will convince you.
WE STOCKS WINf GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd
ELIZABETH STREET, HELBOURNE.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks -Free.
PLAYS
French’s Acting Edition,
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Ji'xtra Special Catalogue of
Books Free.
Stamps or Poctal Notes of any
Coir /iy taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
An. Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
&W For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF fllE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
SSW For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 Georee
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life.
N.s. w.
Just a little waiting
Ere she came along,
I ace aglow with gladness,
Lips alight with song.
Just a little striving
To keep straight and clean
For the sake of someone
Whom you thought a queen.
Just a little hoping—
Night attuned to day—
Garlands of red roses
Bordering every way.
Just one glad, short, gold year,
All the future bright;
Now the long, long grey years
And the misty night.
Just an idle jesting
Wrought in careless mood—
Thoughtless word ill-chosen
And ill-understood.
J ust a wide, white pathway
Winding down the years,
Strewn with withered roses,
Watered with salt tears.
VELDT.
A Ballade of Brag.
In an age of Bounce and Brag,
Where the Virtues drone and drag,
Every man his jaw must wag
Far and near;
That his merits manifold
May be full and duly told
He must blare—a brazen, bold
Chanticleer 1
If he’s modestly inclined
(Less of Jaw and more of Mind),
He must jdeld to men of Wind
In the fray ;
For your neighbours, fool and sage,
In this great enlightened Age,
All your merits guess and gauge
By your Bray 1
So you need a throat of Brass,
And a fearsome fund of Gas,
And but little—O alas !
Little Brain I
For the brainy men are few,
And their hats are seldom 1 ew,
And their outlook’s black or bl re
In the main !
Note the pressmen’s glad surprise
In this crooked Land of Lies,
How they greet with joyous cries
Yonder elf—
How they sing with heart e ate
“ Lo, he comes in regal state;
He is noble ; he is great;
He hath Pelf ! ”
’Tis the creed of every Star
In the Pulpit— at the Bar-
Spread your virtues near and far
If you’re wise;
Wear a placard on your coat,
Let your praises swell your throat,
Sing vour name in every note—
Advertise ! 1
It is true that flesh is grass
And that mortals quickly pais,
But we still believe in Brass
And in Drum;
And the voices that might guide ua
In the perils that betide us
Now are never heard beside us—
They are dumb !
So the Trumpet we must blow,
Through the Market as we go,
That the crowd may clamor—Lo 1
What a Knave !
And in case we blow it well,
It may echo in our knell,
And a stone the story tell
On our grave !
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Brought to Earth.
Child of mute wonder and rare dreams,
The stars had governance of his soul,
The vagrant moon his fancies stole
And raced with them through night’s extremes.
Ere he could follow her, rough hands
Had bound him to a sombre creed ;
He cried the pale moon in his need,
But she ranged through her netherlands.
And darkness weaved itself around
Till part of his own life it grew;
His fretted soul no longer knew
The pageantry of light and sound.
No longer fancy went a-soar
In strange excesses of delight ;
For him the night was only night,
The day was day, and nothing more.
Through all his years grey shadows trod
Like wrack above a stagnant tide,
And they who made him so, took pride
For bettering the work of God.
T.
THOROLD DALRYMPLE.


A
Nip"—
rouH Crown
Whisky
or
W
ft
.Vs
■
before Taking Clements ionic,
MISERY & HELPLESSNESS.
After Taking Clements Tonic,
CHEERFULNESS & ACTIVITY.
A Very Convincing Narrative.
The Case of Mr. P. B. HUNT.
(BY a SYDNEY REPORTER.)
The ready compliance of Mr. Percy
Bordon Hunt, of No. 8 The Terrace,
Bourke-street, Redfem, with the request
of a special interview, illustrates a
series of difficulties and complica-
tions from which there was no immediate
prospect of escape. After mentioning that
he was a native of Loudon and a resident of
these colonies for the last ten years, Mr.
Huut went on to say :
“ It was when I came out to this country
that I had a very bitter experience with bad
health, and I hope I shall never have to go
through anything like it again, as once in a
life-time is quite enough. I had previously
suffering from a complaint called locomotor
ataxia, and I had never felt really well since.
The change in climate evidently did not
suit me, for my head started to ache most
unmercifully, making me feel quite unfit to
take part in an) thing- I was sc drowsy
and low-spirited, too, no p'easant thoughts
ever coming to give me a moment’s happi-
ness, and I did not seem to care what
happened ”
“ Did you receive any medical attention?"
asked the writer.
“Yes. I had been to several hospitals,
where the doctors prescribed physic for me,
but it could not have been suitable for my
complaints, as it took no effect upon me.
Their medicines were sc useless that I might
as well have thrown them down the drain.
The doctors said it was next to impossible
to properly recover from the complaint
which had made a wreck of me, and this was
and awful reflection for one who had always
been so hale and hearty before, and naturally
making me more sad and hopeless than ever ; *
but I thought I would try some other
medicine before giving up all hope, and
when I had done so my condition was just
as bad as ever. I could not get my breath
freely owing to the heavy sensation in my
chest, and 1 could not sleep at all well. If
I did doze off I was made restless by
dreams that were most repulsive, and, once
more finding myself awake, I dreaded the
thought of falling asleep again because the
dreams were so unpleasant. That was
through being sc nervous, I suppose, for I
trembled at the slighest noise an 1 was
excited at every turu. My mouth had a
nauseating taste which I imagined came
from the white coating on my to: gue. and
there was such a strange feeling about my
eyes — a heavy sens-tion as if they had
swollen during the night. YVh nin London
I was secretary to one of the most eminent
Congregationalministeis in the city, and con-
sequenUy had a great amount of brain work
to do, so that when I came here and felt so
brain-w eary a> d facgeo out I felt my position
all the more keen y. There was no life in
me, and I gave myself up as helpless to
throw off the utter deadness of vitality
under which I was existing. Simply through
excessive weakness my limbs were racked
with aches. It was just the same, in the
morning after lying down all night, for my
legs were as tired as if I had been climbing
steep hills instead of trying to rest mvtslf,
and the mere thought of going to work made
me shudder in despair. There was something
radically wurong w ith my loins, too, as the
painful aches across them caused me no end
of inconvenience, and more so whtn I had
to walk to any place. But so far as that
goes there was nothing that I could find any
pleasure in doing, as my loss of energy was
so great that it w as almost a trouble to dress
myself For a man whose temperament is
naturally active and energetic it was a
terrible hardship to be in such a weak and
powerless condition, but the most melancholy
ahase of the situation was that I could get
,n *’■ hi w>nt of mv difficulties.
It seemed a forlorn hope to think of recover-
ing my health again, but was there anything
I had not given a trial to ! I asked myself. A
little reflection told me that Clements Toni<
had escaped my notice up till now, and al
my deplorable state of feebleness required
immediate attention I said I would give it
a trial.”
“ Were you pleased that you did so.”
“My word I was, for Clements Toaij
acted on my system as no other medicine
had done. Do you know that I had no real
appetite from the time I was taken ill until
I took Clements Tonic, which made me so
hungry that I was always wanting food. 1
was overjoyed at this success, especially as
my pains were diminishing with each bottle
of Clements Tonic,which made my digestive
apparatus able and willing to assimilate my
food and fill my veins with pure, rich tlood,
and with my heart strong and vigorous to
pump that blood to every part of my body.
As time went on it became apparent that 1
was on the road to recovery, as my head-
aches and giddiness were gone and my sight
was good. I breathed freely owing to chest
pains being relieved, while the flatulence
which had affected my stomach did not
trouble me after using a few bottles ol
Clements Tonic. Would it be possible for
me to speak too well of a medicine w’hicb
did so much for me when all others failed ’
My opinion is that I will never be able to
liquidate my debt to Clements Tonic for its
miraculous influence over me, for it actually
raised me from misery and helplessness to a
life of cheerfulness and activity. _ This was
done by degrees, of course, for I got
stronger because I was getting plenty of
rest, my sleep being sound and dreamless,
and the morning life found me equipped for
the duties of life as I had not been for many
a day. I was no longer sickened by a bitter
taste and a dry Tongue when I woke up,
neither was I troubled with that weariness
of limb which had made all my movements
so irksome. I had reason to look at life in
an entirely different aspect then, thank
as the pain-killing properties of Clements
Tonic gave such prompt relief thut I .was
soon free from all my torments, and as a
remedy for invigorating the nervous system
I am smethat medicine is the best in the
world. My nerves we eso ready and keen
that my daily work became a pleasure, and
a capacity for physical and mental extrtion
proportionally increased. I did not re-
linquish the use of Clements To ic until my
health was as sound as it had ever been,
being an entirely new man, and as I have
since enjoyed immunity from the oilmen's
waich nothing but Clements Tonic could
cure it is only fair to my fellow colonists
that I should* tell them by what means I
was released from wretchedness/’
“It w ill he necessary to print your
statements, then.”
“Of course it will; and you may publish
them in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Pkrct Bordos Hcst, of 8 The Terrace. Bourke-
street, Kedfern, in the State of New S uth V'aies,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sm-
cerely declare th*t I have carefully read the
an exed document, consisting of four folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to four,
and that it contains and is a true ani faithfu.
account of my illness and cure by Clenie* ts Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish
in any way my statements—which I give volun-
tarily without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn d claration oonscientioualy believing
the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions
of The Oaths Act
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, this twenty
second d*v of April, one thousand nine hundred and
tvn. Hefw Die, PATRICK STAM-KY. J.P
z 7
“On Our Selection/' By “ Steele Kudd.”
Price, 6a., Postage Bd., from Tex Bcimtih Newspaper Co., Lid., S/dnegr.
pOH THE HUSH WORKER
am-Bu/c
uzs^m
m SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION Will be found
A a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet. Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM- BU K CO., 39 «*•« street > SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Sump for postage, and mention this paper.
JIJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Eilda Railway SUtion and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Tekphont Ho. 101 A .^CATERER
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The'Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
tW BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS'S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTINa
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPEK.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if vou are suffering with WEAKENING.
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
bv the RESULT. Send NOW and vour ultimate CURE
‘ CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CLRED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
See my proposition to the Government,
November Bth. 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free
W. LANGSTON, M R.c.s . fin* .
68 Russell St., .Melbourne.
Rescued
From Drin
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which and-
ean give in tea, coffee or fo d It does it' work so silentl'
and surely that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter
looks oh, the drunkard is reclaimed, even against his wii
and without his knowledge or co-operation Send name
and aidress to THE EUCRASY CO.. 62 HUNTER ST.
SIDNEY. TSW., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free.
S
RUPTURE
Qjuna
witho ct
operation or pa n.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-dav for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
1 SURGEON LANGSTON,
M R C S., ENG.,
• Russell &. Collins Sts. #
r MELBOURNE.
ruTniv
The Only Certain
U oust ache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price. 10s. 6d.
sots AGKN'rS.
m
'lke rUtuU.
CRAIG &. AITKEN. N.S.W. Buber's Suppljr
House, 680-652 CEORCE STREET, SYO.IEY.
LARGEST SALE OP ANY DENTIFRICE.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder.
A unique and efficacious preparation for
cleansing the teeth and strengthening the gums.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
■MORRISS"
IMPERIAL
°intmeht
CURES
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTERS
Prevent* Decay, Save*
Extraction, Sleepless Night*
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed bj BUNTER’B
NERVINE. Of aH Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, MJ),
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac.
Op a it- Stores.
Hidden Secretsof
Disease Revealed
6 -■'! " ~ : "Vr
WORDS
OF
WISDOM
This “ GRAND
BOOK” which is
sent Absolutely
FREE,
"Words of Wisdom,* ft
wonderful book written
for the sole purpose of re-
vealing to sufferers ths
wonderful system of Hom-
oeopathic treatment which
has cured so many cases
that were thought to be
hopeless and incurable.
The book is written in a
plain and concise manner,
telling you exactly bow
and where you can regain
perfect health. In fact, it
gives you the key to ths
grandest knowledge known
It reveals wonderful se-
crets and makes the impossibilities of yesterday realities of to-
day. Ko matter what your disease or how many hare tenri®*
it hopeless or incurable, yon w ii indeed find it A MESSAGB
OF HOPE to you. for if yon follow its dictates, you will* »»
thousands of others hare, be entirely cured of your ailments.
Remember this book costs pn absolutely nothing and you wui
prize it highly. Simply sit down, write your name and address*
send it to the
IRVING HOMCEOPATHIC COY.,
c/r Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
also statin? toot ailments, and they will send their opinion and
advice as well as this grand book without cost.
30 Days’ Trial.
%
will permanently cure you.
We arrant every purehasst
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
AEELIjy'CES
a trial of 30 days befor*
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEO-
- ERA.” Our Electrio
B» ts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
In all stages, however
caused, and restore the
Wtarer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Beds give a steady sooth-
ini. current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all die weak part.
Remember, we five a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean <
what we sav, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE!. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
tor our Electric E!ra and Price List (post free), PT™!?
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH bbAlSfc
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical-
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 KuEAßsm Sthlat, SYDNEY.
<LL CHEMIb l o
pRorHNSEMS
£
Anemia.
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
AT 3/6 PER BOX*


"W E SPECIALISE in but one direction, ie
equipment of offices’
on an UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM
the
No Business can
succeed without
METHOD.
This METHOD
wo supply.
WABASH
EXPANSION
Business
Systems.
Letter Files.
Document Files
Card Index
Systems
For alii
Businesses.
Write for
Catalogue.
!sas9f
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
_ , , , 269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australasia. y
CAN YOU DRAW
a Mechanical Figure Like This?
”«aisrs? < sis£;sii*iSS2*““.
Mechanical Drawing,
Steam and Electrical
Engineering, Heating,
Ventilating, Plumbing.
Mechanical Draw-
ing is of special
value to Engineers
and Engineering
Students, Archi-
tects, Workers in
Wood and Metal
and Foremen of
Factories.
Write for infor-
mation add Cata-
logue “ B."
A
E
MiSKICA.N SUHOOI, OP CORRESPONDENCE AT ARMOUR
institute OF Tbchnoloov. Sydney : Box 629, g.p™
HYPNOTISM, Magnetic Healing, &c.
m
m
Learn to Hypnotize I
Wonderful, Mysterious. Fas
ctnating t I teach you how
to become a Hypnotist so
that you can exert a a trace 1
and magic influence over
otic rs. Celebrate t inatan
taneous method, discovered
and taught only by me
Easily and qnicKly learned.
You can perform astonish-
ing feats and produce fun
by the hour. Surprise all
your friends and make your-
self famous. You can give
entertainments and make
money. Gratifies eve- y am-
bition, compels others to
love and obey you, and
brings health, happiness,
and success in life. Cures
diseases and bad habits.
Send two stamps for my big
FREE BOOK, which treata
on all the wonders, secrets,
and mysteries of the art,
and shows you Just how to
become a Hypnotist.
ADDRESS—
Prof. R. H. Ba.rra.den, 89 Pitt Street, BYDNEY.
MEN
If
you
are
suflering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. read,
165 Collins Street, Melbourne.
mm
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Charcoal
Speedily cure* Acidity. Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigeetlon, Diarrhoea, Ac. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri*
ties in the stomach and bo-wets,gives a healthy tone
to the -whole system. Wards oft all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAOG’SJPURB CHARCOAL POWDBR in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparaticmH.please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark 'J.L.B., in monogram,'on the wrapper.
MEDICAL GALVANISM.
“ A/TESSRS. HALE AND SON’S FIRM has distinguished
- LVI - itself in the development of ELECTRICAL
SCIENCE as a MEDICAL AGENT. By an entirely NEW
METHOD of application they have succeeded in produc-
ing an ELECTRIC BODY BELT, which for COMFORT,
EFFICACY and GENUINENESS is unquestionably far
superior to any previous invention. Yet the whole appli
ance is so compact that it only weighs a few ounces. In
this age of shams it is something to get an article that
has some power apart from imagination." —Medical
Monthly.
HALE’S IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELTS have con-
quered the most OBSTINATE cases of NERVOUS and
other DISEASES after all other remedies have FAILED.
OUR SPECIAL ELECTRIC BELT WITH SUSPENSOR
FOR GENTLEMEN HAS NO EQUAL. Catalogue and
Price List gratis. CONSULTATION FREE.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 CASTLEREACH-STREET, BYDNEY.
OF INTEREST to MEN
TV EAR SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
XJ bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
pi *+ street, Sydney.
Rupture
| Dr. Pierce’s Electric Truss
is a Marvel. Nothing like
it. Beet Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure for Rupture.
World-renowned. 27 improvem’ts.
If ruptured, send a stamp, (any
sort), for new “Booklkt No. 1.
MAGNETIC E. TRUSS CO., 206 Post Street, San
Francisco, U.S. A.; W. H. Sool & Co., Agents, Sydnbt.
The
High-Class Smoking Mixture
' f A B¥2 ** b -ft
HAS NO EQUAL IN QUALITY.
Dr J A AUSTIN lN lb ' AIR TIGHT HNS.
last lighted on t he fiimous nerfpnnl ? UeS f f ° r /? n idea , l smokin f mixture, I have at
tobacco so injurious to the heart and nerves, and Jffi C .ttVJTaSK£SS!- and “ periti “ ° f infeH ° r
S. HOFFNUNC & CO. Ltd., Wholesale Tobacconists,
Wholesale Agents foe Austral,.. and BRISBANE
S.I. Manufacturers: ABOATH TOBACCO CO., 44 W.r,h,„ street, Lont.cn, Enstanu
POOR MAN’S
FRIEND
riJlZgiOTaEn
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
In over 100 years' world-wide use it has proved itself the best Hn a l.
Ulcerated Legs ' rl ]i r f ommended for the cureof
X-ST’aS SUSSt, “! lL'r n «i d,n i c “a p, S 1
B™*., Engif
Dr.ROBERTS’ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1/1 % ; 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by—
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
C. L. ROBERTS, MID.
m
Barn 1766. Died 1834.
&
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regrain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgreon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AV ° ,D unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
Vigor and Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
o^ b i e aa?°^ al Colleg L e of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
s nee 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
It you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neui isthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc. and have
old doctor diagnose your case. * L e
Seek tiie Truth, it costa Nothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
n? IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists Here are answered, in plain language, a thou"
S&?KSr, th !f r CCUr ?° the m,nds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chanters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enioy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived. moraceu
, SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
»\iv' C j edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE. " “
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is ed cost
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards nine
is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted'
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is ’
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games Dost 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted. ’ F '
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc ) Is 3d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is.
Aust. Miners Guide (simple tests for minerals) 3s Cd
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille Is 3d
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free’
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., is 6d posted!
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3g. I’he Amateur Photographer Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history)' Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest sonea
z'. P os t free. How to Plav Billiards, Is 3d *
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho iT
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted. ’
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary', 1700 patres
1600 Ulus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted. *
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIB ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
Asthma
- - ww.,«, iimuo ir um \r\
Relieves instantly, eventually Cures.
Posted to any State, 6s.
6d. large bottle;
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
S wmw>
|^fDlC^lA\EN
Jndioe;Tio^
PILLS.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO,
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
RIMAULT'S INDIAN CIKARFTTFS
Fop Asthmatic people who suiter from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORIMAULT & Co., Paris, Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
• To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
I Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
1 Limbs.
i The Old Reliable English Remedy.
; PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
1 Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
, parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Trumans NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
Q 6 RX CORO’S
£ SS£X* cE of L \ F £■•
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia — PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales~
F. H. Fauldlng & Co., 16 O’Connell Bt., Sydney.
LCD
BEAT
QH3D
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M, NAST. 145
PS St. Melbonm.


HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANBY
Hennessy’s
Hold
the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth of
Genuine Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
OTril
mm
ITiintiWl
fii
X
[sill 1
A-
r4ra»?
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
\ssitoi*s to the Old Cotmtry
SOUTH KENSINGTON
HOTEL
Queen’s < slerr&.ce J London,S.W?
CONSIDERABLY
ENLAR GED—NO TED
FOR ITS COMFORT
& CONVENIENCE
ONE OF THE
MOST FASH/ONABLE
*HOTELS IN
LONDON
Coo £e:'
a
<0
m-
y
me
3^H|t
-I
rm
a
j-i
cj
-t'
j*l»
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applies
tion to The Manager.
THE
‘PLUM’
Ep;
THE
‘PLUM’
p ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prick
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d j Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 31a.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 Georgre-st., Sydney
15
A
T he GANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Canz Direct Current Ari-Propel:r. 80LE AGENTB :
The flustral Qtis Engineering So., [td., South (flelb.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d. ; POSTAGE Gd.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards , Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture.
wills* “VICE-REGAL” mixture
(Registered.)
Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two grades-Medium and Full. Price, Is. per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0. 1202.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1903.
Price 6d
REID’S TICKLING POLICY.
GEORGE REID (to the Dry Doy): "STAND BACK. YOU BEAST. IF HE SEES YOU I SHALL NOT BE ABLE TO CATOH HIM.”
(Reports of G. H. Reid's “ Freetrade" speeches consist mostly oj “Laughter.")


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEIC
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER , 1909
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... .- £
Half-yearly ... .- non
Quarterly ... ... •» V T V
NOTICE.
Bit sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to.be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archirald.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the •‘Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and, not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Ttlaele and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or loash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
•—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, tt Hout St., Capet own; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver .—Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong.—Brewer and Co., ft Queens Road, Hong
.—Brewer and Co., SI Wanking Road, Shanghai.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1903.
The Possible Public Bankruptcy.
After stating that if evidence were only afforded that
care and economy were exercised no complaints or cri-
cisms would be heard, the London Daily Mail points out
the first suggestion of Australian bankruptcy appeared in
a Sydney weekly newspaper.— Cablegram.
The last few days have been days of storm
and stress in those circles where the great,
melancholy, incessant loan is floated. New
South Wales 3 per cent, securities have
dropped in London to about 90. Maoriland
has floated a 3 per cent, loan of £1,250,000,
and the luckless underwriters who guaran-
teed, for a large commission, to get it off at
£94 10s. have been left with almost the
whole amount on their hands It is reckoned
that Maoriland will get about £9l for every
£lOO of debt incurred, and that London
won’t look at any new Maoriland loan for a
long, long time. Queensland is trying to
borrow £600,000, not for public works,
but to make up revenue deficiencies,
which, considering that Queensland has
already borrowed something approaching
£2,000,000 to make up revenue deficiencies,
is not calculated to inspire respect or good
feeling at this juncture. Premier See, of
N.S.W., has cabled to England a wild and
ridiculously inaccurate yarn about the splen-
did solvency of New South Wales, and
Agent-General Copeland and Attorney-
General Wise are both understood to be
addressing the financiers of London at much
length and with great energy on the same
subject. Australian securities are being
spoken of in England with such disrespect
and contempt as has not previously come
their way since Australia first existed. The
Tory party puts the trouble down to Old
Age Pensions, socialistic legislation, and
the famous Six Hatters. The See Owe’-
Sullivan Government puts it down to
base slanders and unfounded allegations.
Also the fact that “a Sydney weekly news-
paper ” mentioned the possibility of bank-
ruptcy and repudiation is alleged to be
partly responsible for the trouble. The
Bulletin presumes that it is that weekly
newspaper.
And it may be added just here that The
Bulletin is proud of being that weekly
newspaper. It led the way in denouncing
the borrowing policy, the hush-it-up policy,
the policy of drift, the policy of being a
financial ostrich and burying this country’s
joint and several head in the sand. It was
the first paper to persistently declare that
the Australian wasn’t necessarily a poor,
feeble, helpless being unable togeton without
perpetual loans ; that he was as good a man
—if he only knew it—as the Dane, or the
Boer, or the Prussian, and as able to
pay his own way, and keep his national
finances clean; that this “ country of
magnificent natural resources ” could pay
for its own roads and bridges and court-
houses and asylums, and do its repairs to
public buildings, and buy crockery for the
Jenolan accommodation house, without pawn-
ing itself to Bull for the money; and that
a regular annual deficit, and a constant
cooking of the accounts, and an interminable
whining about our inability to pay taxes, and
a persistent lie to the effect that benevolent
asylums and dredging operations and the like
are “permanent and reproductive works,”
were not necessarily a part of the Australian
character. It was the first paper which
pointed out, in and out of season, that
a country with the biggest debt per head on
this earth was in a dangerous situation,
and that the perpetual increase of that
debt must mean national insolvency, just
as surely as the perpetual getting worse
of a man who is already ill must mean death.
It was the first paper to declare that the
helpless frame of mind induced by constant
dependence on loans was preparing the way
for repudiation. For ten years or more
The Bulletin has consistently advocated,
not the repudiation but the repayment of
our public debt, and it has stood almost
alone in holding the theory that the Aus-
tralian was as capable of financial indepen-
dence as the Frenchman, or the Yankee, or
the German. It doesn’t expect any grati-
tude from the great, helpless, borrowing gang
for all this.
• • » *
Now that the financial difficulty has
really arrived, there is nothing to be
gained by any further self-deception. It
isn’t Australia’s Old Age Pension system,
nor its State Railway policy, nor the Six
Hatters that is the cause of the trouble.
The United States has an Immigration
Law which is as stringent as ours and
much more harshly administered, and it has
a pension system which is, and has been for
many years, a vastly heavier burden than
ours ; yet, if the United States wanted
money, England would fall over itself in its
haste to lend hundreds of millions if it had
the money to lend. Germany, Denmark,
and other countries have State railways,
land banks, and as much of the parapher-
nalia of State socialism as we have; and if
they put their I O U on the London money
market, they would get all they are likely to
ask for six times over. The city of Glasgow
has carried municipal socialism to the point
at which it tries to establish the public
ownership of almost everything, and the
corporation of Glasgow can raise money at a
rate of interest vastly below anything that
would be looked at in Australia’s case.
The attempt to put down the trouble to
the policy of State socialism is just one
more lie, and one more attempt to shift the
responsibility from where it rightly belongs.
• • • •
The British money-lender doesn’t care
what is the policy of his debtor, so long as
he is wholly satisfied about the solvency of
his debtor. Nor does any other money-
lender. He lends for war purposes and peace
purposes ; he lends to Catholic, Protestant,
Mohammedan and Buddhist, to republican
and autocrat, all alike —if the security is
good. As to why he isn’t likely to lend to
Australia much longer the reasons are obvious
enough. Here are some of them :
He knows that Australia has, in proportion to popula-
tion, already the Biggest Debt on Earth, and he begins
to wonder how much debt per head a country can carry.
There must be a breaking point somewhere.
He sees that debt increasing faster than it ever in-
creased before, and increasing much faster than popula-
tion does.
He sees a smaller and smaller proportion of the new
loans being applied to reproductive works, and a larger
and larger proportion being applied to unproductive,
every-day purposes that should be a charge on revenue.
He sees the unproductive debt mounting up till even
the war debts of most of the States of Europe aren’t a
circumstance by comparison.
He has seen the scanty sinking funds that once existed
mostly borrowed, and, in the case of most of the States,
all serious attempt at repayment of the debt abandoned.
He knows that the Australian public lands, which are
often described as being a security for his claims, are
being used up as fast as they can be realised on for revenue
purposes, and he wonders how much worse things will be
when they are all used up.
He is perfectly well aware that the Australian railways,
though they don’t represent very much more than half
his claims,’ don’t even pay interest on their nominal
value; that in several cases they have been allowed to
fall into hideous disrepair through the policy of grabbing
every possible penny as revenue and cutting maintenance
expenses down to starvation point; that they are being
saddled with all kinds of charitable expenditure in the
way of starving stock concessions and the like, and are
being further starved to try to make them cover these
extra charges ; and that a vast amount of the rolling-
stock which is supposed to represent his loan money has
long since gone to the scrap heap.
He hears the most railwayed country (in proportion to
population) in the world clamoring for thousands of miles
of new railway, for all of which he is expected to find the
money, and at the same time some existing lines are
being closed because they hardly pay axle-grease. And,
after they are abandoned, they are still quoted to him as
a permanent and reproductive security.
And he hears silly politicians declare that the Australian
railways, which don’t anything like pay interest on the
£130,000,000 they cost, would easily sell for enough to
cover about £210,000,000 of debt, and he begins to wonder
if he has been lending his money to a community in its
right mind.
• • * •
And even these things are not all.
He knows perfectly well that Australia, even after
using its land receipts as revenue and charging a vast
amount of its ordinary expenditure to loans, has, as a
whole, had about 15 deficits in the last 20 years, yet there
is hardly any serious attempt to make ends meet.
He has seen, within the last few weeks, Victoria annex
Turner’s sinking fund and the railway accident fund for
revenue purposes rather than impose a general land tax.
Also he has seen Queensland put a £600,000 deficiency loan
on the market rather than impose a land tax.
He heard, a few days ago, that N.S.W. had accumulated
another million deficit in seven months, and he learned
that not only was the overdraft sufficient to swallow up all
-the available trust funds, but-that the State had bank
overdrafts as well.
He couldn’t but hear Owe’Sulliyan stating proudly
that it was his huge borrowing policy that was keeping
the State going, ana he naturally prefers to lend to some
country that can keep going without loans. Also ne pro-
bably thinks that the Owb’Sullivan’b words sound very
like a warning that when the loans stop N.S.W. won t
keep going any longer. ,
He sees, even in this time of stress, money being scat-
tered in subsidies to ox-shows and grants to schools ot
arts for the purchase of yellow-backed novels. Probata}
he even hears afar-off draper Law clamoring for a grant
for the Balmain Choral Union. Also he may have seen
the plans for “ the most magnificent railway station in
the world.” . ,
He must have heard, over and over again, the proua
boast that this is “ one of the most lightly-taxed countnes
in the world.” And he probably begins to wonder if a
country which is so proud of not paying enough taxes to
keep itself solvent is a desirable debtor.
And he possibly begins to wonder why a country
whose “ magnificent natural resources” are dinned into
his ear with such sickening iteration, can’t get along
without five or six new loans every year, and must use
its land receipts as revenue, and pay a lot of its ordinary
expenses out of borrowed money as well, and annex its
trust funds and sinking funds, and have a chronic deficit
to boot —a deficit that seems to come along in good and
bad years just the same. And he perhaps begins to ask
himself if these stupendous “ resources” are only a con-
fidence trick, after all.
And, amid all the rest, he hears the voice of George
Reid promising, if he gets into power, to reduce taxation,
and make the things that are already bad a vast amount
worse.
These are a few, at all events, of the
reasons for the present difficulty ; and all
the blustering of tenth-rate politicians
about the iniquity of those who refuse to
join in the hush-it-up policy won’t shift one
of them by so much as an inch. There is no
easy remedy for the trouble. It is the result
of 30 years of steadily increasing folly, of
silly braying about imaginary riches, of
refusal to pay sufficient taxes to keep the coun-
try solvent, of insane extravagance and incom-
petence. The only honest way back now is
the long, hard road uphill. If the Australian
Government will take over the existing State
debts (also if the silly, parochial vanity of
the State Governments will let it do so) and
pledge itself (the State Governments joining
in the pledge) to borrow no more till they
are paid oft', and will establish even a small
sinking fund for their repayment, it can
probably renew the old loans even now as
they fall due, at such a reduction of
interest as will itself more than cover the
sinking fund. After that it will remain
for the States to cut off every item of need-
less expenditure (the hospital subsidy and
the Old Age Pension vote are not needless
expenditure and are not included) ; to sack
their Agents-General ; to reduce their Legis-
latures to one House each ; to put up with a
plain Lieutenant-Governor each at £lOOO a
year , to suppress the blatant draper who
wants £75 for the Balmain Choral Union ;
to make paper money do to a great extent
in place of gold, and apply the gold in re-
duction of our outside debts ; to manufacture
more and import less , to tax the big land-
lords of Victoria, Queensland, Tasmania,
and Westralia ; to levy a heavy impost on
the absentee , to promote settlement by
cutting up big estates ; to make the country
districts pay for their own roads and cul-
verts ; and by these and other devices for
the six States to find about £7,000,000 a year
out of revenue for public works purposes.
Such a course as that will “ restore con-
fidence.” All the anger of John See and the
indignant remonstrances of Henry Copeland
won’t. But the habits of helplessness and
dependence which the loan policy has estab-
lished make it very improbable that Aus-
tralia will face the uphill track now.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Et Tu, Brute.
“F.M.” writes from Hobart:—
The Bulletin’s defence of the outgoing Tasmanian
Government comes as a surprise and a shock, and to the
few men in Tasmania who are working zealously and un-
selfishly to help on a better day, as a staggering dis-
couragement and affront. One does not easily suspect
The Bulletin of misinformation, or suspect it of dis-
figuring bias ; but this untimely championing of an un-
speakable gang of shoddy monopolists and shufflers is
inexplicable. Tasmania’s only real hope is in progressive
policy—and The Bulletin turns sharply to smack the
progressives in the face! Surely it cannot be difficult,
even at the distance of Sydney, to learn the facts.
Lewis and his discredited associates are, to put it most
mildly, irreclaimable upholders of re-action. Lewis :
wooden Jingo and Tory, and elephantine dilettant;
Mulcahy : renegade democrat, a frenzied egotist, a wasp,
wrongheaded ; Bird : champion political turncoat of the
Australias, ex parson, ex-everything ; Collins : sawdust
nonentity. Their talk of democracy—they don’t talk of
it more than befits respectable Vandemonians—is the
flimsiest farce. All through, they have been zealous
battlers for the privileges of the Fatman, as against the
rights of the mere perspiring people. The record of Lewis
and co. is a long-drawn sordid tale of tinkering inepti-
tude. Whenever they have dared to introduce any
measure vaguely democratic it has been because they
knew that the Legislative Council would surely butcher
It.
The Bulletin hails the present income-tax as Lewis’s
honest attempt to grapple witha serious financial d ifficulty.
But the Lewis Government is not primarily responsible
for the income-tax. Bird’s proposal was for a tax based
arbitrarily on rent or annual assessment.
To represent the Opposition as unwilling to face
direct taxation is to go very far in misrepresenta-
tion. Opposition members right through even the
limpest of them have demanded direct taxation.
It was only beneath the whip of the Opposition
that Ministers grudgingly introduced this present tax.
But Opposition members said that as a preliminary to
necessary direct taxation, there must be reasonable' re-
trenchment and lopping-off of superfluous State depart-
ments and officials. They said, or some of them said,
that the land-tax was execrably low, and that (in
especial) a big crowd of monopolist absentees should be
dealt with immediately, and as savagely as might be.
They said that the influence of the Legislative Council was
so notoriously damnable, that during the whole life of the
Ministry only the most essential routine legislation had
been allowed to become law, and that it was fully time that
the House ceased from the supine idiocy of meekness that
billed the House of Dry Bones as a place whence no ill
thing could issue.
In short the Opposition made just the demands that
must have been inevitable in the circumstances m any
awakening democracy ; and this Government occupies
exactly the position that plutocratic and conservative
Governments have wallowed in since ever the world was.
And The Bulletin embraces this squalid Lewis Ministrv
as the only potential saviour Of Tasmania !
The Opposition members “ said or some of
them said ” is the one lapse into candor of this bit
of special pleading. If the Opposition, as a body,
had the policy which “ F.M.” alleges, The Bul-
letin would range itself with the Opposition. But
the progressive element in it is so hopelessly small,
that it won’t be the crowd in power if Lewis goes
out, and the crowd that will oe in power looks a
lot worse than Lewis and co. The progressives
are against Lewis, and with some reason. But
they can’t form a Ministry, and they will prob-
ably have more reason to be against Lewis’s suc-
cessors. The “retrenchment” gag of Lewis’s
opponents is a disgraceful farce. Tasmania is so
cheaply-governed now that very little retrench-
ment is possible. The island had a lot of taxation
taken off —taxation that it couldn’t spare—by the
abolition of inter-State customs, and the demand
that the loss should be made good by shameful
sweating (called “ retrenchment ”), instead of by
new taxation, is a disgrace to \democracy—
if any real democrat is behind that wicked
demand. As to the Opposition being in favor
of direct taxation a large section, at all
events, of the Opposition press persistently
demands sweating instead, and the anti-LEWis
“ Reform ” league goes blind for the abolition
of the income-tax ; and no body of Oppositionists
large enough to form a Ministry demanded an
increased land-tax or put forward any promising
financial policy whatever. Of course, every
Opposition says that the good measures of the
Government were “wrung from it” by the said
Opposition ; but that tale is getting to be too
ancient. When an Opposition is strong enough
to dictate a policy to the Ministry it forms a
Ministry itself. The Bulletin doesn’t like Lewis
much, but it regards him as the less of two evils.
And it declines to have anything to do with the
gang of sweaters who are now out on the “re-
trenchment ” game in a State which is already so
cheaply governed that very little further retrench-
ment is possible.
»
Vindicated.
This is Geobge Reid’s very latest
Mr. Reid says that it is well enough known by this time
that he had to take up the heavy burden which the
Government to which Mr. Lyne belonged was no longer
able to carry. Even Mr. Lynb’s own financial committee
admitted that he (Mr. Reid) did not claim as much of a
surplus as he was entitled to.
It seems really probable that if (impossible
event) George Reid were sentenced to two
years hard labor he would cheerfully allude
to his trial and conviction, in after days,
as an occasion on which he had a gold medal
conferred upon him by an admiring community.
Reid ran up against three financial committees in
all. The first he appointed himself, early in his
career, to report on the absolute accuracy and
honesty of his bogus surplus, and hisown committee
flatly declined to say that the surplus was either
honest or accurate. The blushless Reid presented
that damning document to N.S. W.' /ssembly,
and spoke of it as a complete vindication of his
character, which was probably the most magnifi-
cent sample of cheek even that Assembly had
ever listened to. The next committee came along
some years later, when Lyne was Premier. Reid
was allowed to name two members of it, and
Lyne himself selected the third. That committee
didn't say any nice things about Reid as he
brassily suggests above; in fact, its report \va>
such a scathing denunciation of Reid’s career as a
gjlitical account faker, that in a better-class
arliament it would probably have led to his
prompt retirement. Even the rhiuocerous-hidtd
George felt that report so badly that he appointed
a little committee of accountants all by himself,
and paid it out of his own pocket, to go over the
accounts again. And even his own hired com-
mittee declined to say definitely that his political
finance was clean ; all it would say was something
to the effect that if the matter was looked at from
Reid’s own point of view things were all right.
A financier has not exactly the right to put on Dry
Dog and hauteur when he appoints two committees
and selects the majority of a third committee, and
can’t get a certificate of political honesty from any
of them. When he proudly quotes these disasters
(when people have had time to forget the details)
as proofs of his splendid character, the situation
becomes more comic than the fat old gentleman’s
best joke ever was, even when that joke was new.
♦
The Victorian Reform Position.
As The Bulletin went to press, Victoria was
waiting for Premier Irvine to take up a very
“strong” attitude towards the Upper House. It
was not waiting very hopefully, because the
feeling is growing down south that Mr. Irvine is a
strong man only when the task in hand is to bully a
pioor laborer. However, Mr. Irvine has the chance
now of vindicating himself, or justifying his critics.
The House of Landlords has chewed over his
Reform Bill, rejected from it all that is valuable,
and contemptously spat back at him the husk. It
has added insult to hostility to the popular House
by allowing to stand the provisions for the reduc-
tion of the Assembly in numbers and power, as an
impertinent intimation that it has no objection to
that House diminishing its own importance, but
that the almighty House of Landlords must not be
lightly interfered with. A straight-out rejection
of the whole measure would have put the
Council in a more dignified position. As it
is, the remnant of the Bill cast at Premier
Irvine’s feet is in no sense a “Reform Bill.”
It is not “ reform ” to provide for a huge
reduction of the Assembly, for a very small reduc-
tion of the membership of the Council, and to
grant to the latter body the power to “make
suggestions ” (almost equivalent to making amend-
ments) in money Bills. Mr. Irvine proposed, as a
concession to Tory reaction, to give the Council
power to make suggestions once in regard to money
Bills; the Council struck out the word ‘ ‘once, ” and
by arrogating to itself the right to make an un-
limited number of suggestions, and to make them
over and over again, practically demanded the
right of amendment. That is a right which the
House of Lords in England does not claim, and
which no Australian Upper House outside Victoria
claims. Yet the grant of it to the Victorian
House of Landlords is now the marrow of the so-
called Reform Bill, for the provisions with regard
to the reduction of members are really not im-
portant in any constitutional sense. The
principal things struck out of the Reform
Bill are the liberalising of the suffrage for
the Upper House so that every ratepayer should
have a vote; the broadening of the qualification
for membership of the Upper House (at present
the Victorian Upper House forbids about 95 per
cent, of its constituents the right of election to its
ranks, so the created House poses as being greater
than its creators and reserves the privilege of its
membership to a small ring of extra-rich property
owners); the provision for a dissolution of both
Houses of Parliament upon the passing of the new
franchise law ; the settlement of disputes between
the two Houses of Parliament by a joint sitting;
and the granting of the franchise to women. As
put forward by Mr. Irvine, the Reform Bill was ; a
very moderate measure indeed, and disfigured by
several concessions to re-action—the weak propo-
sals of a weak man. As returned to him,
it has had all the reform rejected and the conces-
sions to Toryism increased. And the question of


the day is: What does Irvine intend to do?
Present indications are that he will ask for a disso-
lution of the Assembly, and leave the question as
to his ultimate attitude unanswered until that
useless excuse for delay has been exploited. There
is no reason why the Assembly electors should be
asked again whether they wish for Reform or not;
they have already said so emphatically, and their
saying so again will not advance matters one inch
towards a settlement. A strong man would say
at once what he intended to do to the Council,
and would then do it. There are several ways by
which that insolent mass of gilded tallow can
be swept out of the path which it obstructs. One,
before suggested by this paper, would be to buy
it off (it is such a sordid, huckstering, unpatriotic
body that this would almost certainly serve, if the
price were made high enough, and hardly any
price would be too dear for the benefit). Another
would be to tack on to the next Appropriation
Bill a genuine reform measure, and insist that the
Council should pass it without amendment, or take
the responsibility of stopping the business of the
country and being ultimately rioted into obedi-
ence ; yet another possible plan to a strong man
would be to call a popular convention and ask it
to abolish the Upper House, and thenceforth
treat that House as abolished, and abolish
all officials who didn’t choose to honor the
authority of the single House. There is no such
thing as an irresistible obstacle in politics.
Before this, in a superstitious age, the apparently
hopeless barrier of a “Divine-right” king has
been swept away ; and, beside that incident, the
removal of a mere mass of stupid, rich, fat
humanity is an easy contract—but not for a man
of the Irvine stamp. The Bulletin predicts,
with some certainty, that he will face the present
situation by doing nothing special in a firm and
masterly fashion, and with frequent assurances
that when he says a thing he says it, and that
when his foot is down it isn’t up, and so on.
Say Labor.
It is necessary for democrats to define their
attitude in regard to the “ day labor ’’controversy.
No class of workers has any claim to “loaf” on
the State by drawing wages which they do not
legitimately earn. The State must not “sweat”
its employees, by giving them less than a fair
wage. These are the two principles by which a
reasonable decision on the subject should be
bounded. There is no duty on the part of the
State to tolerate any “government-stroke” or
“ca-canny” tactics on the part of the men it
employs, whether laborers or lawyers ; there is a
very clear duty not to exact, from the necessities
of the poor, labor at an unfair rate. The Freetrade
contention that the Government should, in its labor
relations, follow the Freetrade theory and “buy in
the cheapest market” needs only to be examined to
be scouted, for its logical conclusion would be the
employment of cheap Coolie labor from Asia in
all manual work. On the other hand, the idea
put forward, more or less clearly, in some inju-
dicious labor quarters that the Government must
be a sort of “ boss that never sacks,” willing to
tolerate anything in the way of bad service, must
be just as clearly rejected. The “day labor”
system is, with proper management, undoubtedly
advantageous. It saves the Government the
middle-man’s profit, it prevents "scamping” of
work, and it gives a guarantee that there will be no
sweating. In practical working its value has been
repeatedly proved : and it is by no means confined
to Government works, but has been pretty
generally adopted for large private enter-
prises. The Railway Commissioners in N.S. W.
have carried out many extensive works with-
out the intervention of the contractor and, almost
invariably, with particularly good results both as
regards economy and quality of workmanship.
But, with all its virtues, the system is extremely
liable to abuse—particularly in the hands of a
Government swayed by the desire to placate
opponents or satisfy supporters. Wasting “ Go-
vernment money” is in almost all quarters looked
upon as a venial sin ; and waste is very easy on
large day-labor works by the employment of un-
skilful workmen or by allowing skilled ones to
“ loaf ”at their tasks. There has been a good
deal of this, too. in N.S.W., and on some Govern-
ment works employees, it is notorious, have made
laziness a practice, devoting much misspent in-
genuity to devising means of wasting time.
The ultimate result is that in some cases
the benefits to be expected from direct em-
ployment of the workers required have been
lost, in others there has been so much
waste that it would have been, on the whole,
better if the work had been carried out by the
contractor. For the success of the day-labor
system there must be adequate skilful super-
vision and no political interference to save the
incompetent or lazy from dismissal. And these
conditions ought to be easy enough to fulfil. It
would be a humiliating confession to have to
make that we, as a community, were not honest
enough for a day-labor system.
-♦ ———
The Federal Yes-No Attitude.
BURNIE (Tas.), Wednesday.
At to-night’s meeting Mr, Barton read telegrams that
had passed between Mr. John Henry, of Devonport, and
Mr. G. H. Reid, on the subject of the policy of the Free-
trade party in respect to the imposition of direct taxation
for Common wealth purposes.
Mr. Henry wired to Mr. Reid asking if it was true that
the Freetrade party had declared that their policy was
to reduce the existing customs revenue and impose direct
taxation. Mr. Reid replied, “ Mr. Barton's statement is
absolutely without foundation. We repudiate direct
taxation of the Commonwealth, and always have. Under
a genuine revenue tariff direct taxation is less likely than
under protective duties destroying revenue."
Daily paper.
The above is the nearest Mr. Yes-No Reid has
yet got to defining his Federal fiscal position—
that is to say, to defining what is to be his fiscal
position should he ever, by evil luck and gruesome
ill-fortune, become Premierof the Commonwealth.
As a Freetrade position it doesn’t look up to
much; as a Democratic position it looks up to
much less. Here is what the country has to look
forward to under George Reid’s Premiership of
Australia, should that disaster ever come to pass :
0) There is to be no absentee tax, for that comes under
the head of direct taxation, and the Dry Dog gentleman
absolutely repudiates direct Federal taxation.
(2) There is to be no graduated land-tax directed to
the bursting up of big estates. In such States as Victoria
and Tasmania, where an immovable Upper House is
solidly entrenched behind a property franchise, it is imi
possible to get from the State Legislature a graduated-
land-tax, devised for the express purpose of bursting up
big estates. It would be as reasonable to look for feathers
on a lion as for democratic legislation of that kind from
such a quarter. There is the same trouble in Queens-
land and Westralia, and, in a less degree, in N.S.W. The
only hope of democracy is that the Commonwealth Par-
liament will move in the matter. George Reid assures
the public that, if he is Premier, the Commonwealth Par-
liament will be as immovable as Captain Cook’s statue.
(3) Seeing that there is to be no Federal direct taxation
under George Reid’s Premiership it is evident that, if
Australia is to be kept reasonably solvent, there must be
as much money screwed out of the people by customs
and excise under the Reid Freetrade regime as under the
Barton Protectionist regime. George Reid has assured
the public 1000 times over that all customs taxation is
paid by the consumer, that it is a most costly and most
w * ay of / aism S revenue, and that for every
CUBtomB tax money which reaches the Treasury
or Ba. t . And he also solemnly assures
Australia that he is going to continue raising Federal
™ enue b / thls allegedly extravagant and ruinous pro-
?° on taking 2s. or 3s. from the people for
©ver t \ is. that reaches the Treasury.
£ n . d the middle and end of the differ-
r^es b £o W r^ n n l ?i B,l> and Barto ? is to be this : Barton
f f® 8 . £ ’ 00 ?! ? r 80 a year by indirect taxation and
A„tf t^- SO ad i ust lt; as > at the same time, to encourage
Australian industry and supply the people with work and
wages. And Reid promises to also take'£9,ooo,ooo or so
;h°"\ the People by the same processes, but he guarantees
that he will so fix things that in doing this he won’t help
*• a . n - v '"dustry, or supply work and wages to a
single Australian citizen.
(5) And in promising not to resort to Federal direct
taxation m any shape or form, George Reid practically
Ki lfc C fu a ' n that there wil > "ever be any money
available, if he gets into power, for Federal Old Age
or {nr constructing a new Federal capital ; that
he will do nothing to dislodge the big land monopolist,
• b ,® • ?h?f fc6 ?u ° r th e Jbnkins Iscariot land grant railway
job . that there will be no Federal policv of land ac-
quisition for Closer Settlement—if fact, that all democratic
With r6SS W * g ° overboard for want of money to progress
]Sow it is for Australia to consider whether it
wants an apostle of direct taxation who repudiates
all intention of levying direct taxes, and a Free-
trader who denounces customs duties, and is going
to raise as much money by customs taxation as
the party now in power. When the only differ-
ence between the Reid party and the Barton
party lies in the Reid party’s solemn promise not
to encourage any Australian industry whatever, is
it worth while to put the Barton party out for
the sake of putting the Reid party in ?
♦
A Labor Covenant for Land.
Years ago, when the Tory party nodded, the
principle came to be accepted that the man who
owns a mine must work that mine or make way
for somebody else who \Vill. This was merely the
adoption of the communistic doctrine that refusing
to surrender things not being used is equally a
crime with taking things which are being used,
though probably the framers of the labor covenant
were unaware of that fact. The principle was
recognised and has prevailed to the present day,
even the most reactionary of Australian legislators
never daring to question its right. But while
the principle universally governs the search for
mineral wealth, not a single suggestion has been
made that it should apply equally to the much
more profitable and necessary industry of working
the land for food and clothing and habitation.
The man who holds a mineral lease, that he
deems valuable, has, at any to make a pre-
tence of seeking for the wealth that is concealed.
The man who holds a block of land the value of
which is manifest even to the casual street-bred
visitor may hold it for a rise for all eternity, or
may graze a few sheep upon an area that would pro-
vide a living for 10,000 people. Failing nationalisa-
tion of the land, which is a large order, the adop-
tion of a labor covenant scientifically arranged
according to the value of the soil is the fairest
and most easy method of performing the work
that comes (nominally) foremost in the programme
of every Australian Ministry— “ settling the
people on the land.” There is no difficulty about
getting the people there. The trouble is to find
the land for them, and it is the endeavor to
do this which led Victoria to open up inac-
cessible precipices in Gippsland and the desert
stretches in the Mallee which are now about
to cost millions in railways and waterworks.
The whole agricultural population of Vic-
toria might easily have been settled in a small
corner of the Western district, where their
productive power would have been far greater,
and their markets more easily reached—had it not
been for the fact that the Western district is
owned by half-a-dozen Fat Families, who are
satisfied to raise sheep and play polo, pending the
sale of their property at fancy prices. A Labor cove-
nant would end all this. The Vic. western district
sq uatter who pastured 1000 sheep on land capable of
producing 1000 tons of potatoes would be instructed
to comply with the conditions attached to the pos-
session of first-class land, and, failing to do so, his
property would be liable to resumption. This he
would never permit. In place of holding for a
rise, he would either rush his property into the
market in small holdings or work it himself, in
which case he would provide a more comfortable
living for his employes than they would get at
present in the Mallee. His neighbor, who held
third-class land, wholly unused, would be obliged
to pass it over to sheep, and his brother, who was
hanging on to an allotment in Collingwood, would
have to hurry off to an architect to get a
house erected on it. The prosperity of a
nation is wholly dependent upon its productive
power, and the loaf of bread is, all over the
world, the first medium of exchange. The poli-
ticians want to “ settle people on the land ” ; the
people are available, and ready and anxious to be
settled ; and the land is there, only the owner
won’t let people settle on it. An enactment that
so many people must be settled on so many acres,
according to the carrying capacity of the land,
would remove the only obstacle in the way.
♦
Mr. Prynnge, the Politician.
The Australian Parliament is out of session, but
there will evidently be no lack of political discus-
sion whilst the N.S. W. Supreme Court is sitting.
Last week, Mr. Prynnge —forgetting altogether
his character as Justice Pring —had another
outbreak of strong political partisanship on the
Bench. The matter before him as a Judge was a
clause of the Commonwealth Excise Act:
In every excise prosecution, the averment of the prose-
cutor or plaintiff contained in information shall be
deemed to be proved in the absence of proof to the con-
trary.
A conviction under this clause was the subject of
appeal because of the objection that the Legisla-
ture could hardly have meant the word “proof”
to be taken in its absolute sense, but rather in-
tended that it should be read as “ evidence,” or as
“satisfactory evidence”; otherwise a familiar
common-law principle that a man cannot be held
guilty because he cannot absolutely prove his
innocence would be violated. The point was a good
one. Probably the Australian Parliament meant to
enact that if a man, for instance, were found in
possession of an illicit still, that would be evidence
against him of guilt—just as the possession of
stolen goods would be—and would be sufficient to
convict upon, unless he could bring evidence to
show that his holding of the still was an innocent
one. The Judges on the Bench had a perfect
right, of course, to comment on the wording of
this clause, and to blame Parliament for the loose
way in which it was drawn. But that didn’t
satisfy Justice Pring ; he must cast off his judicial
robes and plunge into a general political con-
troversy. To quote from a newspaper report :
Mr. Justice Pring agreed that the section was an in-
novation into English law, and was repugnant to his
mind. Incidentally, he referred to another equally re-
pugnant piece of Commonwealth legislation—namely, a
provision in the Immigration Act that, unless an intend-
ing immigrant could speak 50 words in Russian, though
he might be able to speak English, he would be a pro-
hibited immigrant.
Mr. Prynnge in this statement aired an opinion
which was utterly out of place, and which was pro-
bably founded on a dense ignorance of the subject.
The provision of the Australian Immigration Act
referred to (in a muddled sort of way) was
copied from the Natal Act ; was approved
by the British Government when passed by the
Natal Legislature—in fact, the adoption of the
existing clause, instead of a clause excluding un-
desirable colored races, was forced on Australia by
British dictation ; and was again fully approved
when enacted by the Australian Parliament. Even
if that were not so, if it were entirely without pre-
cedent and utterly opposed to British notions,
it is the law, and Justice Pring’s duty is
to administer and respect the law, whatever
Mr. Prynnge’s views on the subject may happen
to be. If from a deep personal conviction that
the law is unjust, Mr. Prynnge feels that hecannot
conscientiously uphold it as Justice Pring,
resignation from the Bench provides an easy
remedy. Then, in his private capacity, Mr.
Prynnge can speak as freely as he likes against
the law, and, if he chooses, seek to enter Parlia-
ment and have it changed. But while he is on the
Bench he must keep his views to himself ; his
incursions into the region of party politics from
the Bench have become an intolerable scandal.
♦
The Victorian Report.
A very remarkable docu..,eiit indeed is the report
of the Victorian Royal Commission on Factories
and Shops Law. This Commission was appointed
to inquire, in a calm, judicial fashion, into the
merits of the Factories legislation which came
into force under the democratic regime of George
Turner, and it was hoped in many quarters
that it would discredit, if not wholly damn,
Turner’s enactments. That at any rate was the
expectation of the Tories. The Victorian House
of Landlords has been constantly deferring con-
sideration of shops and factories matters * ‘until the
Royal Commission had reported,” looking forward
evidently to that report as a bulwark against labor
demands. If so, the disappointment of Balak,
the king who employed Balaam for a cursing con-
tract on a certain historic occasion, pales into
insignificance, beside the chagrin that the Vic-
torian House of Landlords must feel at the tenor
of the report to which it had been looking for-
ward so eagerly. Mr. A. R. Outtrim, as chair-
man, puts his signature to a document which
recommends a most prudent and admirable plat-
form of reform legislation m a form as concise
as it is clear and convincing. The commission was
not very favorably impressed with the cumbrous
laws which in Victoria strive at the suppression
of sweating, and therefore suggests the abolition
of the Wages Board and the substitution (1) of
courts of conciliation and arbitration—the latter
somewhat on the N.S.W. plan—with power to fix
rates of wages ; (2) of a compulsory apprenticeship
system, _ with safeguards against 4 4 sweating ”
apprentices ; (3) of an Early Closing Act on the
N.S.W. plan; (4) of the strict limitation of
Asiatic labor (to a total of 300 in the furniture
trade and of 150 in the laundry trade). It is a
splendid programme, and its adoption would
place Victoria again in the forefronc of the States
as regards industrial legislation—a position which
it held, or almost held, for a brief period in
Turner’s time, but speedily lost again. But it
must be a bitter pill to Balak.
♦
44 Kiwi ” from his ricketty islands :
The death of William Rolleston, one of the old school
of politicians who might have achieved great things had
he had the courage to emancipate himself from the social
tyranny of his class, has given another excuse for opening
the floodgates of nauseating eulogy. Anyone with
ordinary observation who has studied the stereotyped
obituaries of public men, could have written leading
articles on Rolleston before-hand. One phrase, “ There
were gianis in those days,” alluding to the trood old times
when politicians wept for the public good night and day,
has become almost as time-worn as “ butchered to make
a Roman holiday,” which Mark Twain recoiled from in
his “ Innocents Abroad.” The fact is, newspapers
maunder about the good times that were and the
decadence of modern politicians, pretty much as the old
ladies prattle about the times when they were young—
when girls didn’t walk with sweethearts, and didn’t let
anybody kiss ’em, and wouldn’t dream of marrying
without the consent of mama. I happen to have
known poor old Rolleston very well. He was a man
of rare culture certainly, and a Liberal at heart. In the
early days he became terribly unpopular with the
arrogant Canterbury squatters, because of his sympathy
with the small settlers and his efforts to encourage close
settlement, and the odium of the squatters scared him
into “ respectable ” moderation. Still Rolleston had a
fixed hankering in favor of enlightened legislation, and
when he became Minister of Lands he gave us our per-
petual leasing system, but whatever good he achieved
through this was spoiled by G. F. Richardson, who
followed him in the portfolio of Lands. Richardson got
legislation through permitting the holders of perpetual
leases to purchase the fee-simple, and has thereby earned
the undying ingratitude of every lover of Maoriland.
Rolleston bitterly resented Richardson’s work ; but
both were of the same party, and Rolleston was too
good a party man to be of much use as a reformer. To
the last the old man was deservedly respected, but his
long public career must, on the whole, be counted a
failure. He was socially averse from the class of men
who comprised Ballance’s Liberal party, and though he
was politically at variance with his own party, social ties
were too strong, and he who might have become a leader
of men remained a mere ornamental lieutenant of the
selfish coterie who want to keep Maoriland a land of
squatters and sheep. Rolleston was, to some extent,
the author of the Maoriland education system. In the
da}'S of the provinces he was Superintendent of Canter-
bury, and had great fights with his advisory executive,
practically suspending it an I the constitution. He secured
a public library for the province, was guardian angel of
the museum (now the best in Maoriland) and was a force
on the Senate of the University. At the general election of
1899 he was beaten by one vote, and he was too old and
tired to demand a recount. So William Rolleston
passed out, and his obsolete Gladstonian collar was seen
in politics no more.
*
About the most splendid tiling in the way of
impudence that Sydney remembers was the proud
uprising, last Sunday, of the local Faith-Healing
parson to point out that the acquittal of John-
ston (charged with slaying his wife by failing to
provide her with medical attendance) was a
glorious triumph for the Faith-Healing per-
suasion. It was especially cheeky that
Parson M'Cullagh should take for his
text the words : “They shall lay hands on
the sick and they shall recover.” Parson
M'Cullagh and his sect laid hands on Mrs.
JoHnston, and she didn’t recover. They faith-
healed her till she died. But she was strong in her
belief, and refused the medical assistance that
might have saved her. Her husband was
promptly acquitted of the ridiculous charge of
murder brought against him—partly because his
wife refused medical aid on her own responsibility,
and her blind trust in the ridiculous M'Cullagh
was her own fault; partly because, when the
crisis came, Johnston himself threw up the
M'Cullagh superstition and wanted to have
medical aid called in. If the patient had been an
irresponsible child instead of a responsible adult,
and Johnston had allowed it to die without
medical aid according to the teachings of
the M'Cullagh clan, then he would have deserved
to be treated either as a murderer or as some
speoies of mild but dangerous lunatic. When the
humorless M ‘Cullagh, after such a failure,
briskly elevates his tail and preaches from the
text, “They shall lay hands on the sick
and they shall recover he is a sorrowful example
of the witlessness of the sects. But a sect
that can seriously believe in Preacher Dowie
as its head and boss apostle— Dowie who says he
is the resuscitated prophet Elijah, and who had
a pair of purple wings made so that he might
hook them on his back and flap them wildly during
service as if he was an enlarged chookey fowl—is
capable of almost anything.
*
George Reid is practically the only Australian
politician who does his political somersaults in
public and is proud of the fact. His recent
assurance that his “Freetrade” party intends to
rely wholly on the hated and much-denounced
tariff as a source of revenue, moved Premier
Barton to quote some of his previous speeches on
the same subject. And here, in a Sydney evening
paper, is the Fatted Wriggler wanting to know
what in thunder truth or consistency or political
decency has to do with the case:
Mr. G. H. Reid is rather disappointed that Mr. Barton
has not accepted his assurance that the party he leads
does not favor direct taxation for Commonwealth pur-
poses. Mr. Barton has a strong recollection of Mr, Reid
saying in the Convention that he rather liked the Braddon
clause, because its restrictions applied only to customs
and excise, and if he were Commonwealth Treasurer he
would not be afraid to resort to direct taxation. ‘‘Sup-
posing 1 did say it then," Mr. Reid remarked, “ what has
that to do with a definite political state of things, and a
party with a definite policy ? I have laid down the policy
of the party in this way : We take the same view as the
Government that the Federal Parliament should confine
itself to taxation through the Customs House.”
Exactly! Even if G. Reid declared his perfect
readiness to resort to Federal direct taxation and
his entire aversion to customs duties, what have
these things to do with his present assurance that
he won’t have direct taxation at any price, and
that he will rely wholly on customs duties? What
has G. Reid’s “Yes” to do with his “No,” or his
“No” with his “Yes,” or either of them with his
“Yes-No?” Also, what has his left leg to do
with his right, or his Dry Dog with the Sydney
water-supply ?
Current term of N.S.W. Supreme Courtis pro-
viding much good copy to the newspapers, and
Justice G. B. Simpson, in the Central Criminal
Court, is getting as many special paragraphs as
even he could wish for. The Johnston case—an
Elijah Dowie dupe being charged with murder
because his wife had died without having medical
attendance—gave Justice Simpson his first chance.
The prosecution was obviously absurd. The
accused man believed profoundly that his wife’s
illness was more likely to be cured by prayer than
by a doctor ; his wife had the same conviction.
The husband, however, was willing, even anxious,
that a doctor should be called in—on the
principle that it’s just as well to keep your
powder dry even though you trust in Providence ;
but his wife was firm in her faith and she died.
To charge the man with “cruelly and maliciously
murdering her ” was an idiotic action, though he
might have been held in some degree culpable for
not insisting that a doctor should be consulted.
The Crown Prosecutor, who happened to be Mr.
Pollock, Solicitor-general, was very roughly re-
buked by Justice Simpson for the absurd prosecu-
tion. Next day Mr. Pollock was in hot water
again, Justice Simpson denying hisright tofileabill
at all in place of the Attorney-General, and when
Mr. Pollock tried to argue the point the Judge
threatened to send him “somewhere.” “The
profession ” prophesied that there would be some
joy when it was announced that Mr. Pollock
whs to prosecute for the Crown at these assizes
(Pollock, outside of his official position, is re-
garded as “only a junior”), and there has been
joy. By the way, if, as Justice Simpson seems to
assert, the Solicitor-General cannot legally act as
a grand jury and find a true bill, what about
the legality of the prosecutions for the Auburn
murder ?
♦
Sydney Worker re-hashes the old theory of
“ cycles ” of depression to account for the threat-
ened crisis in Australia :
As a matter of hard and dry fact, our by-gone prog-
nostications of evil were based on a belief in the cycle or
vortex theory of commercial disturbances. These recur,
in all countries, once in every 10 years or so. The last
Australian crisis occurred in 1592-1894— the next must be
due now. And these periods return in this regular
fashion, not because—as Wilson imagines—of drought,
borrowing, impeded immigration, and high wages, but
simply because wages are not high enough. Just as soon
as production overtakes and passes consumption, because
wages have not increased in direct proportion to pro-
ductive power, from that moment the vortical motion
begins which ends in social smash and general destruc-
tion.
This, as applied to Australian conditions, is
simply jingling nonsense. It’s not over-pro-
duction that tends to produce crises here, but
under-production—our failure to produce sufficient
goods for export to pay for our imports and for
the interest on our borrowings, still less sufficient
to pay anything off our old debts.
■■ »
After three years of straight-out Labor adminis-
tration the Broken Hill municipality has gone
back to the old ways. The Labor administration
was an interesting experiment, but, on the whole,
it cannot be said that it was a success. Perhaps
it did not have a fair chance ; anyhow, there was
a hole, and very early in its career the
party fell into it, losing the whole of a year’s
rates from the mines (about .£3500), besides
£7OOO in law. Apart from that, however, most
of the Labor aldermen had not learned that
to make day-labor a success there must be compe-
tent supervision, and that to get good supervision
good money must be offered. The party didn’t
realise these things because, no doubt, it is hard for
a man who has never himself earned more than £3
a week, to understand that anybody at all is
worth £lO or £2O a week. The Broken Hill party,
therefore, “sacked” the town clerk, and for the
latter half of its run also got along without
engineer or overseer; and the results make the
thoughtful members of the party sad.
«,
The Tories of Victoria never weary of babbling of
the alleged truckling to the city workers—the
Trades Hall—by the Turner and Peacock Minis-
tries. Here are a few figures showing what these
allegedly Trades-Hall-dominated Governments
did for the land-owner by the Irrigation and
Waterworks Trusts Relief Acts of ’99—one of the
grossest acts of repudiation ever committed by any
body of men in the State. Three shires, five
boroughs, 32 waterworks trusts, and 27 irrigation
trusts, mostly in the North, had borrowed from
the State £2,500,000, and of this liability no
less than £1,050,000 was wiped out in one
act— i.e., transferred mostly to the shoulders of
the city workers and posterity. In the shameful
list of defaulters, some of whom had every penny
of their debt and interest remitted, the Kyabrama-
pootra’s home at Rodney comes easily first.
Rodney owed £212,099 principal and £52,720
interest, and was forgiven £147,099 principal and
all the interest. That same district, including
Rodney, Echuca, and Waranga, Fragowel Plains,


THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD I
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
NET FUNDS, January 1,1902, £71,975,776.
Inincipal Agincy in Australasia; Company's Building. Martin Place, Sydney.
Z. C. REXXIF, Gencr.il Manager.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Rabbit Curse”
May be turned into '‘a blessing in disguise” by such as have the energy to
systematically set about trapping dear bunny.
The Rosowarne Packing Co M Ltd.
xr j — •
is now paying high, prices for
rabbits at their Chilling Works
in iNarandera and loung, in any quantity. Send for particulars to the
either at their Works or their
Head Office : 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The experiment will pay you well.
and Shepparton, bilked the State altogether of
£1,564,400! And now another £lOO,OOO is being
poured away into the Waranga Basin. Un-
doubtedly Barabbas was a land-owner. Also,
the hoi'seleech of old, who had two daughters,
must have done some farming in his spare time.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMINO WEEK.
Lyceum “The Cotton King.”
Royal “ Sweet Nell of Old Drury.'*
Criterion “Fun on the Bristol.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Palace “ Wrong Mr. Wright.”
Town Hall Jubilee Singers (Sat.).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Fortune-Teller."
Her Majesty’s. ... “The Geisha.”
Bijou.. “ The Christian.”
Theatre Royal. “ The Shadow of Night. *
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall. Dolores Farewells.
»
Perhaps the damp Sydney climate has had
a debilitating effect on “TheWrongMr. Wright”
—or perhaps the man who writes this notice is
older and more soured and less accessible to inno-
cent merriment than the one who discussed the
show on its Melbourne appearance. At any rate,
he finds it difficult to endorse the Melbourne
verdict that in this play Mr. Broadhurst has
equalled, even exceeded, the merit of previous
hilarious farces, such as “What Happened to
.Tones.” As staged at the Sydney Palace,
it appears to be the effort of a playwright with
That Tired Feeling, whose best comedy ideas had
been exhausted, and who was obliged, for lack of
inventive power, to use up again old situations
and old motives. Some of the characters are abso-
lutely colorless; in others the color is bor-
rowed from the author’s previous creations, and
put on rather thinly. There is, of course, a great
deal of fun. With all its faults, “The Wrong
Mr. Wright” is miles ahead of many of the
English and French farces, burlesques and extra-
vaganzas which find ready acceptance ; and there
are flashes of genuine humor as well as shriekful
situations. Still it does not seem that playwright
Broadhurst has maintained his previous high
standard of mirth, and he seems to frivol under
the greenwood tree of his imagination more
laboriously than aforetime.
• • * •
Most of the heat and burden of the piece
fall on George Willoughby, who, as Singleton
Sites (the wrong Mr. Wright), has practically the
only notably original character on the list. He
makes the best of it, forcing the pace at every
opportunity. The feminine broad comedy part
(Arabella Clingstone) is a clear copy from the
Lavinia of “What Happened to Jones”; Miss
Boland Watt-Phillips plays it after the best tra-
ditions of farce, and contributes a good deal to
the fun of the play. As Henrietta Oliver, a lady
detective, Miss Roxy Barton looks charming, and
acts in a semi-serious fashion which is rather
attractive. And Frank Denton, Miss Appleton,
Miss Ascoli, and Tom Cannam deserve special
praise for doing the best possible with parts that
are not too plump.
• • • •
“The Wrong Mr. Wright” is eked out
with a curtain-raiser, “ Counsel’s Opinion ” —a
bit of that sort of sentiment so dear to the
British heart. The rich, stern father who has cast
off his daughter because she married an actor (a
man with any sense would have overlooked such
an evanescent and purely temporary incident);
the actor who has died and left a struggling
widow an 1 a son (latter, in accordance with the
traditions of the theatrical profession, has been
burdened with the awesome names of “Maxi-
milian Arthur Morgan Lovelace ”); this son, who
is the Perfect Prig, softening grandfather’s heart
by tricks that would lead an ordinary man to pray
that Herod might come again and slaughter all
children—they are all there, and the gallery sniffs
and the stalls feel for their handkerchief, and a
generation which considers that Dickens reached
the supreme point of pathos in “Little Nell ” is
vastly pleased. The curtain-raiser is acted very
well, particularly by Mr. Cannam, as the heavy
grandfather, and Sydney Halliday, as the Lord
Faunfcleroy boy, whose father was an actor and
whose name is an outrage and who is the Perfect
Prig.
** * *
Last Saturday, Bland Holt staged a some-
what sad drama, called “ The Cotton King,” at
the Lyceum, and it. wasn't greatly brightened by
humor of an impossible kind, showing Mrs. Bland
Holt as a female Sandow, with alleged ability to
take Bland up in her teeth and throw him over
the fence. We don’t see Mrs. B. perform this
feat, otherwise there would be more excite-
ment. In Act I. we hear that Elsie Kent
is a good girl, and the idol of her “favther’s”
heart, upon which the experienced audience
understands at once that Elsie has been betrayed,
and that the villain will put the blame on Baker
very shortly, that gentleman being kept at the
Lyceum for the express purpose of being wrongly
accused on such occasions. Baker is a Yankee
without an accent and without much business cute-
ness, and his manner of offering to be a brother
to Elsie lacks enthusiasm. Meanwhile Styan
has falsified Baker’s cable message, and
brought him to financial ruin, besides which
he has incited the mill bands to attack Baker in
the interests of morality. However, with the
mismanagement that is characteristic of the lower
classes on the stage, they attack Styan instead,
whereupon Elsie Kent drops down at the end of
Act 11., and in Act 111. is understood to be in
“God’s Acre.” At this juncture Baker departs
to America to be cast by Styan into a
lunatic asylum from which he escapes by
means of a fire, arriving in time to rescue
Frances Ross from beneath some ton weight of
lift, which the villain brings down upon her. She
has overheard the villain's designs, and in the usual
foolish heroine manner informed him that she was
going to bring the police to him, instead of doing it
and saying nothing. However, this gives Frances
an opportunity for writhing beautifully beneath
the impending lift, and later on it is understood
that the clouds have burst asunder (they rolled
past in the last drama, and in the one before that
they cleared away), and that the fire that purifies,
as the programme puts it, has gone out at last.
* t • • *
Baker, as before mentioned, acts the
not over wise hero, while Styan, as a persevering
villain, keeps up to his usual level. Albert
Norman plays quietly and forcefully as a drunken
mill-hand, but Brightie Smith’s Lancashire accent
is an effort. Miss Frances Rutledge acts delicately
as the little deceived girl, while Harry Norman
dances lightly in the picnio scene though sup-
gised to have demolished fourteen pies. The
iss in the Ring episode possesses some irrelevant
interest; the Lift Scene excites enthusiasm,
though not so much as a red and blue electric
chair or some other more unusual method of exe-
cution ; and the Machinery Room of the Mill is
also good in a tame, prosaic way. • Also the real
rain that falls in Act I. descends in a natural, wet,
perpendicular manner, a gaudy section of rainbow
causing some irrelevant moral remarks later on.
m* * *
“Fun on the Bristol ” continues to make
a fair show at Sydney Criterion, where some
bright, new songs enliven the ancient, weather-
worn humor that attaches to widows who have
buried two husbands. The three legitimate objects
of humor in the female sex are the lady who has
not married at all, the one who has married too
much, and the one whose daughter has married.
The widow humor seems in the ascendant at
present.
*« * *
The “Fortune-Teller” (unless the manage-
ment changed its mind after this went to press)
vanished from the boards of Sydney Royal last
Wednesday evening, and the “Chinese Honey-
moon ” trailed its gilded pigtail and weary mother-
in-law joke over the scene for one night only.
Then, if the advertisement was to be relied upon,
The Players took a hand on Friday ; and to-night
(Saturday), Nellie of the Turquoises reappears as
the frail but winsome fruit-girl who mashed a
king, but died none too well off. The lady who
mashes a monarch should always make the smitten
potentate purchase her an annuity in the A.M.P.
office straight off, and there is no class of the
population which has such an incentive to patro-
nise the Post Office Savings Bank as the best girls
of kings. For the average king lives right up to
his income; and when he finds a new girl, it takes
all his money to keep her, and if the previous girl
hasn’t saved money, then the lookout is dreary in
the extreme.
** * *
Ernest Toy’s concert at Sydney Centenary
Hall, Saturday night, revealed a boyish-looking
artist, capable of really brilliant work. When
Max Schluter was here he gave us every possible
variation of the shriek —the shriek reduced to a
fine art, to perfect music, with all its jagged edges
smoothed away. It fascinated while it did not
charm. The Bananaland player revels in sonorous
chords and rolling notes ; he pours out rich golden
melodies, standing motionless with closed eyes
and bent figure, utterly lost in the sounds he
creates. And he looks such a boy. Henry Weir
and Miss Maud Dalrymple gave valuable support
on Saturday night. Miss Dalrymple’s beautiful
presence would give valuable support to Israfel
and all the angel choir. She can also sing some.
But —all violin music is unsatisfying ; it leaves
an indefinable want; though Toy’s manipula-
tion of the unmasterable instrument does not
leave such a huge gap as most other people’s.
** * *
John Coleman had a hearty reception at
Sydney Tivoli last week, when he reappeared,
after a lengthy absence, in various song and dance
items, including the Scarecrow dance. Spry and
Monti are back at this theatre with a dialogue
entertainment which is superior to their previous
inane bar-room sketch ; and the Montroses have
returned to tumble with grace and precision.
Oftierwi.se the Tivoli programme is much as it
was. W. G. Hunter and Professor MacCann are
still two of its chief bulwarks. Interest in variety
business in Sydney is just now very languid, and
there is evident need for some fresh attractions.
m* * *
Veteran Howard Vernon, when last heard
of, was visiting the small towns of Soustralia,
with a small co., under disheartening conditions.
Next time Vernon strikes Sydney and Melbourne
the public, who cherish kind recollections of his
bygone Bunthorne and many another popular
character, would be glad to hear of a big compli-
mentary benefit —say two benefits—for their tall
old friend. Casting its eye back on a long series
of the Firm’s comic opera productions, in which
Howard Vernon “ created ” all sorts of characters
for Australia and stamped his own identity on
everyone of them. The Bulletin can think of no
worthier object for a ben. than the man who
played the old warrior in “Ma Mie Rosette.” In
many cases “Utility” Vernon was the most
successful member of the co., though he didn't
play a “ star ” part or draw a glittering salary.
His Lord Chancellor (“lolanthe”) came next to
BrOugh’s; his Majah General (“Pirates of
Penzance”) was the principal man on the job;
likewise his Koko, in the “Mikado.” And the
“Yeomen of the Guard,” unique among Gilbert
and Sullivan operas, owed much of its Australian
popularity to Vernon’s humorous, gruesome
picture of Wilfred, the jailor, who proposed to
entertain his bride on winter evenings with tooth-
some stories of the torture chamber. Then there
was the Grand Inquisitor, in “The Gondoliers.”
Has he no claim to a benefit ?
** * *
The jubilee of Melb. Philharmonic Society
was marked last week by an interesting social
reunion of members old and new. The venerable
Phil., it seems, was originated by the choristers of
Wesley Church, Melb., a little tabernacle which
stood on the site of the present Bank of Australasia
building in Collins-st. Two of the first soloists
of the infant society came up smiling on this
jubilee occasion—W. H. Williams, publisher of
the awful ’Awklet. and F. G. Smith, the
Williamstown town-clerk, who brought along his
diary recording the birth and christening of the
Phil. Armes P.caumont, S. Lamble, and Mrs. R.
S. Smvthe, soloists identified with its early years,
must have felt young again when Williams and
Smith, and Edwin Exon talked of the time before
it was established. Beaumont i a a mere boy in
vocalism compared with W.H.W. who gave ad vice
to the enterprising novice Smythe re his pioneer
venture in concert management. In the course
of this reminiscent evening George Peake, the
modern conductor of the Philharmonic Society,
announced a proposal to start its next half century
with a big oratorio performance in the Exhibition-
building.
** * *
“The Christian” came to pass at Melb.
Bijou on Saturday night, and this new setting of
the old trouble appeared to be taken seriously by
a patient congregation. Miss Maud Williamson's
drama is made comprehensible by a previous
and somewhat gloomier play, which traded on
the notoriety of Hall Caine s novel. The public
hold the key to the mystery. When John Storm
pops up in a long black gown they know that he
has escaped from the Holy Brotherhood of the
Gethsemane, because the previous drama threw a
dim religious light upon John’s sojourn among the
“ poor blokes at the monkery.” The omission of the
monkery scene in this case is only regrettable for
one reason. There was a husky, matter-of-fact
coster who brought vegetables to the back door of
the Gethsemane enclosure at early dawn, and
used to blow on his cold fingers whilst he talked
with Brother Paul concerning women and other
worldly things. The coster, with his sympathetic
irreverence, was a more impressive preacher than
Storm, for he taught the futility of holiness, and
reminded one that all men are but mere blokes
and consumers of ’taters from a barrow.
» • • •
Glory Quayle, who was always a giddy,
full-blooded deceiver, is, in Miss Williamson’s
play, rather more permanently giddy than of
yore. Also, friend John chases her in a more dis-
tinctly hypocritical spirit. John has gone into
business as a General Preserver of Young Girl,
and he takes no Christian interest in his fellow-
man, unless the masculine sinner happens to be
poaching on his (John’s) precious preserves.
John s furious anxiety about Girl terminates at
the point where Glory holds out her arms and
implores him to grasp his opportunity.. Then
he hurls himself into the haven of hug, and
Glory gives him a “ Zaza ” kiss—a kiss so tropical
that the curtain comes down. After his pleasing
lapse. John makes no further attempt to rescue
girls, but he continues his old habit of stoushing
the male species. The drama affords fleeting
glimspes of brother John on the stoush. He
smites the lower orders, and he biffs Lord Robert
Ure, his grievance in each case being due to a
spinster’s baby. Finally he receives a fatal stoush
himself, and dies upon a sofa, after having con-
verted his own auburn girl into a respectable
married woman. The drama doesn’t explain how
John comes to be hurt, but it seems probable that
the middle-classes rise against him in a body and
avenge the indignities which the “ lower orders”
and the long-suffering lordship have endured at
his hands.
* * m *
Miss Maud Williamson puts a lot of work
—light, medium, and strong—into her Glory
Quayle performance, and most of it is well done.
Alfred Woods makes John Storm a beauteous
ranter who shapes himself elegantly in his wrath,
and might easily be mistaken for one of the ewe
lambs he is dragging into the fold. A pair of
mild young men appear as the parties reponsible
for Glory’s stage career; also several other men
come forward to receive vituperation or physical
punishment from John the Smiter. The loudest
of these is Alf. Boothman. Miss May Hesford,
who graduated in amateur comic opera long ago,
turns out to be a capital Mrs. Jane Callender
with a tuneful Eloise Juno accent. “ The
Christian” is a fairly smart show, and quite
likely to prosper. It contains enough cant and
cuddle to satisfy any right-thinking parson.
* * * *
The two musical shows from Sydney fall
due in Melbourne next Saturday (28th). “The
Fortune Teller ” will be staged at the Princess’s,
with Madame Slapoffski and LemprierC Pringle
in the principal parts as before. At Her
Majesty’s, where silence has reigned for three
long weeks, the J.C.W. comic opera co. will
return for the immediate purpose of playing “The
Geisha.” The east thereof will be as it was in
Sydney. This is a time of year when a number of
red-faced men cross the Murray to attend some
races in Melbourne. The language of these rubi-
cund travellers when they find themselves con-
fronted by the shows they’d left behind them will
be very like the ejaculations of the jim-jammed
citizen who wonders whether he has got ’em again.
* * * *
Talking of the awful results of drink—it
seems that a grand temperance drammer entitled
“ Man’s Enemy ” is preparing for production at
Melbourne RoyaL Meanwhile, “ In the Shadow
of the Night ” supplies the weekly want. G. F.
Carey fires the petroleum store, and Willard tries
to roast him in his own furnace, as it happened on
the first night; but since then the conflagration
scene has improved the blazing hour by gathering
new details and effects. The latest effect is a
minor conflagration of Carey himself, whose
clothes are burning in two places when he gets
rescued. One of these places is just where he
couldn t possibly have caught fire if he had been
sitting down on a sheet of iron.
* * * *
Jacques Inaudi, the calculating
started to calculate at Melbourne Opera House
last Saturday. Possibly he is a wonderful person,
although they have set up a boy calculator at the
rival variety show, and the boy rival undertakes
to reveal how lightning calculation is done.
Whether wonderful or otherwise, Jacques is cer-
tainly a bore. He dances not, neither does he
sing. He stands upon a plank and arrives at
arithmetical results by intuition, or something.
As a freak of brainwork his performance is less
interesting than that of the men who can photo-
graph a whole sheet of daily newspaper upon their
memories. The bill at Rickards’ will be changed
considerably on Saturday next.
* * * *
Mdlle. Antonia Dolores, who was always
as charming, but never so popular an artist as
now, is about to give her positively last recitals in
Melbourne ere she returns to Europe. These
Dolores farewells are announced for Saturdav
evening (28th) and the following Thursday after-
noon. There was a time when The Bulletin
made a point of urging an unenlightened genera-
tion to go and hear Dolores, but to-day the genera-
tion needs no urging. It crowds into the Town
Hall, and cheers the singer with almost as mnch
enthusiasm as she is worth.
* * * *
The Adelaide Royal now has “Dick
Whittington ” (with cat) in full swing, contrary
to the local custom of producing pantomime on
Easter Saturday—if at all. H. H. Vincent has
staged the whole thing practically as it was seen
in Melbourne. At the Tivoli, Seeley and West
turn out to be remarkably funny comedians, one
white and one black. The idea of producing
music from all kinds of unlikely implements is
not new, but the white man and the colored
brudder do it with a quaint humor that is their
own copyright. The Schenk brothers, head
balancers, “direct from the Folies, Bergeres,
Paris,” have just been dropped into the pro-
gramme.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life ASSUR-
ANCE SOCIETY.
Income. Outgoings. Added to
y , -n r *• Assurance
Premiums. Interest. Claims. Expenses. Fund.
1897 ..£150,602 £58,446 £121,983 £38,060 £49,005
1898 .. 155,539 58,881 108,768 41,936 63,716
1899 .. 161,603 60,853 115,640 48,950 57,866
1900.. 171,740 62,050 122,187 52,079 59,524
1901 .. 183,805 63,293 109,639 56,519 80,940
Contingency Reserve carried to Assurance Fund 9,324
1902 .. 182,091 67,205 138,383 51,718 59,195
The assurance fund now amounts to £1,577,753, and
but for the fact that the claims were heavier than usual
last year, siill better results would have been shown.
Seven years ago the Australian Widows’ Fund wrote off
about £125,000 to cover depreciation of properties during
the boom-burst period. Since then, some of these pro-
perties have been realised and have, in most cases, yielded
more than the written-down valuation. The income from
“ Profits on Realisation of Properties” is not included in
the above list. These profits were kept separate and put
to a reserve, which, in 1901, amounted to £9324. Then
the management yielded to the temptation to make an
extra good showing in its bonus year, and carried this
amount to the life assurance fund, which helped it to
declare £100,049 cash bonus, equal to £160,400 of rever-
sionary bonus. During 1902 “ Profits on Realisation
of Securities” amounted to £4366, and this was put
to a new contingency fund. This time, it is to be hoped,
the contingency reserve will not be absorbed in the as-
surance fund. In fact, it ought to be separately invested
and allowed to accumulate at compound interest, as a
precaution against the next panic. After the experience
of 10 years ago, the life assurance societies of Australasia
should lean to excessive caution rather than to open-
handed recklessness. The Widows’ Fund values on a3£
per cent, basis a safe figure for the present at all
events; but if the fund was wanted for no other pur-
pose, it might be of material use in plaeing the accounts
on a 3 per cent, basis later on.
The expense rate shows as follows !
Expenses Compared with Total Income (Profit on
Securities not Included in Income).
1897.. £lB 4 2 percent. I 1900..£22 5 6 percent.
1898.. £l9 11 2 „ 1901..£22 17 6 „
1899.. £22 0 1 „ | 1902..£20 14 11 „ f
The reduction made in the expense rate this year is very
substantial. At the same time the rate is even now very
high—higher than it was at any time between 1890 and
1898. Still the fact that the upward movement in the
expense* has been arrested counts for a great deal.
Another point on which there has been a veey
substantial improvement is in the rate of interest yielded
by the invested funds. In the following comparison the
whole funds (contingency fund as well as life assuran'-e
fund) are included, in order to put the present'year on
the same basis as its predecessors : -
Interest earned on Average Funds.
1897.. 15 6 per cent. 1900..£4 8 4 per cent.
1898.. 4 11 11 „ 1901.. 459 „
1899.. 410 7 1902.. 4 6 8 „
The assets look, on the whole, a very respectable lot, and
when everything is taken into account—the increased
income, the improvement in the interest returns and the
diminished expense rate—the year 1902 may be regarded
as a very favorable one for the Australian Widows Fund.
In fact, if it were not for the very great foolishness of
carrying the contingency reserve to the general fund and
applying it to bonus-paying purposes, there would be little
to complain of. That act is one that can’t be condemned
too strongly, and it is to be hoped it will not be repeated.
• • • •
More of the unlucky candour of the Owe’Sul-
livan :
“ He cannot understand the outcry that is being raised
in England and New South Wales against further borrow-
ing. So far as he is concerned in the expenditure, he
states that he always endeavors to use the money with
judgment and discretion, and he /crimes that, but for the
manner in which the Government has proceeded with
public ivories in a time of unexampled distress, there
toould long before now have been a crisis. He blames the
press, both here and in London, for wild and extravagant
statements." ' . J-*.
This constant assuring of Bull that New South Wales is
tottering on the verge of an abyss, and is only being
temporarily kept out of it by big’loans, isn’t calculated
to reassure the British money-lending person. Of course,
the statement may be true enough, but fancy a man talk-
ing that way, while he is blaming other people for saying
the same sort of thing.
•*‘ - • •
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria Ltd.
(Melbourne) still fails to make ends meet. The losses are
not very large certainly, still they are larger for the
second half of 1902 than for the’ first, and. they are
steadily eating into the foundations of t-he business. The
record since the bank wrote its old deficit off capital, and
commenced to construct the new deficit, has Been as
follows :
Apparent Appar-
Loss Loss by ent Loss Total
on Discount on Pro- Loss. Deficit.
Busi- on Prepaid perty
ness. calls. sold.
Dec., 1900.. £2263 £459 £2722 £2722
June, 1901.. 1049 565 1614 4336
Dec., 1901.. 1792 169 1961 6297
June, 1902.. 1053 36 £772 18311 171
£7957 profit on repurchase of bank’s debentures/
Dec., 1902.. 1217 3426 4643 4814
The above statement shows the accounts exactly as they
are presented in the successive balance-sheets. But the
bank has been buying up its debentures on other occa-
sions besides the one shown above. Also it has been
selling its properties all along, though only in the last
two half-years is there any indication of the exact
amount of loss on these sales. It seems probable, there-
fore, that other profits on repurchase of debentures and
other losses on property sale 9 have been set against each
other without anv particulars being given.


i
-*
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
STOCK®* in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails
Steel and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. IND E N TS. -LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEP LAS TRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppbl, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
?j:r aret l ° P urchase or develops, with option of
purchase, big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties oifered
Melbourne** 6?t l ° ,aBpeotlon • Cable address: “ Option,”
* * * *
itrnest de Beer, Salisbury Buildings, Bourhe
St., Melbourne, has opened up a fine shipment of
plumbago crucibles. He seems to be progressive in
oatering for assayers’ requirements.*
* * • »
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
d® p,et f Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
tustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
e P ba , n Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
fu S beel ? a great improvement in the general
of ‘he engineering business since the new year
and fc ‘ at i, hlS making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
?n Jh b *' ng f x n e 0 ° uted at Cootscray works is one for 7 miles
fnr fhi" lB ' n ' dwmeter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
cnntrnnfTc C - lan Wate , r suppl . v '• and at Perth works a
pr . ogres | over 6 miles of lOJin. diameter
Tin MinK P»Pes. flanged Jolnts> for the Greenbushes
Sy t nd L Cate> About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
.4- Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
«3Jt Urn - ed from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining- properties (not
My surface shows), situated iri any part of
maeh?npr! a re B, u, . nn * furtber ca Pital for development and
canahlo v, °" y § r ® nuin ®. and legitimate ventures,
entertained b * g th ® stnctest examinations will be
* • * *
, T he Policy Holder, July, iyo2 writes •
in 1873 the Colonial Mutual from the outset
bifused l bun'’ 53 ," 81 "” amount of ener k r y and enterprise
infused into its management. In all 88,299 policies
covering £26,826,380 have been issued.”* policies
• * * »
CrI I ? e qnmh erg^Und , E l^ trio Haul «ge plant at the
Great Southern Consols Mine, Rutherglen, has been in
.I?? era^ 0 " f ° r 80m ®, m° nths with most satisfactory
A K d ?u es a Rood of the saving to be
b y th ® use of electricity, intelligently applied,
over the old system of horse traction. Although the
ar ® not yet in best condition or the men quite
„ the^ neW , ByBfce “ l he manager states the expenses
ar ® f, 7 per day less, with an increased quantity of dirt
p! . ant \ vas supplied and installed by the
Engineering Company of South Melbourne,
a " d s ° f th ® well-known Ganz manufacture, who make a
speciality of electricity applied to mining purposes, such
winding pumping, driving and lighting.
d "« of . V? elr .® xper t electrical engineers is attached to the
staff of the Austra l ODs Engineering Coy., and is avail-
able to give expert advice to Mining Companies on all
erB p ? rtain >ng to the use of electricity in mines and
Supply estimates of cost and saving.*
• * m *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
00., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
£°wn a i nd \L Large . ge amount of their reserves of
18 ‘ nveBte d m the States. Net revenue (1902)
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
• ♦ * *
.Cyanide. Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and 00., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
°°y, er) °, f illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Price Is. 6d., post free.*
• • • *
Queen Margaret (W.A.) is making very slow
progress in treating the trial parcel of 400 tons of ore
F° ra Tu new pr °P ert y. the South Gippsland, at Vosper-
wUl k £V* na^T ent is still confident that the result
h s h b satisfactory, but all sorts of adverse rumors
affairs tu"? '? ‘“Possible to get at the real state of
?” a ' rB , „T h f lates t yield from the co.’s Bulong mine only
r'P'fd 9dw , tB - and as ounce ore barely left a margin co.
must he gettihg into a bad way financially. It begins to
I,?f>- a 8 S?' muBt either reconstruct, if the new property
warrants it, or wind up if it does not.
INSIST ON GETTING
SCHWEPPES
GOLD
MEDAL
SELTZER WATER
Supplied, to Her Late Majeßty Qween Victoria for 63 Years.
ssnaa sf ? 4v<s£ra
j^ttsmaS^-ssasa
and ior last Mi-Van fir wSre SiSSPhS” l . B P t ° v ?<>.
»»£KSSir
creditors appear to be now only about £570,000. 8
e , Ne w South Wales Fresh Food and loe
fuckattached^uT 68 *®“ eer Which Beems to have n °
Profit. Dividends Written Re-
JSSBLIS? |■«•-»-«!» A JSI&
June, 1900.. 5465 6 ” ”
Dec., 1900.. 2587 ’_ ’* 4693 gOOO ’w
June, 1901.. 4510 _ 2000 h I? 2 ' 392
Dec., 1901.. 4541 _
June, 1902.. 5340 _ ;4,443
Dec., 1902.. 727 2600 45 ’ 010
The profits represent only about 17s. 7d. per cent oer
annum on the paid-up capital of £165,114, which is far
from cheering. And the co. makes no visible progress at
paMng off any of its heavy liabilities. Its net P overdraft
follows b ; a anCeS and Cash 0n hand deducted > has been as
Net Overdraft.
Dec 6 ’ 1899 " June,l9ol .. £26,540
j»ni m:: Sul sBB s-jg
Dec., 1900 .. 21,891 Cf/Sra ”Ig
. m^u' n £ of Profits (on paper anyhow) only seems to
increase the Fresh Food and Ice Oo.’s liabilities! Ind its
reserves are subject to dark suspicion, for against them
*‘ be * et ( a , goodwill item of unknown amount (th™
balance-sheet lumps it in with other items as “plant
goodwill, &c., £208,517, ' and whether £5,000 or £lOO,OOO
of that is goodwill there is nothing to show). The idea of
a company in the present position of the F. F. and I Co
nf U nn^n - Vl u- ' u} tS balance-sheet as a saleable item
of an> amount, is highty absurd.
**• . *
a highly successful Sydney brewer: Allt’s
at 'Y av , erl ®->'* S - vdne 3', was originally estab-
lished with a capital of £200,000. In ’97 Mr. Edmund
Resch purchased AUt s assets for £64,000. He brewed at
Waver eyuntd 1900 ; then he bought the assets of the
Sydney Lager Bier Company at Dowling-st., Moore Park
, had B P ent on its plant and buildings,
and had borrowed another £16,500. He spent £25,000 in
idditiona! plant and buildings, as the original co. had
only the plant for brewing lager, and he brought all his
brewed 81 Wh? 9 ’ &C ‘ 'IT to Moore Park and
MrufA la f" and sfc °c k a»e. The amounts spent by
£iossm h th }sta b llsh j n B: his present business are thus
The oth ® r d .a.v. although he has been in posses-
SSP:« nt business only 2J years, he was offered
£250,000 for his assets and chances. He declined the
offer on the ground that, if he did sell for £250,000, he
d ‘ d know where to look for a better investment for
tn 6 money.
* * * *
Accident Insurance Co.
(Auckland, M.L.) shows good results for 1902. This co
started with £2OOO of paid-up capital, which was all the
SL 8 « < tl d f rs the business. The other
£23,000 of capital and the £79,453 of reserves have wholly
accumulated out of the business. This is the ream!
“fitn C l at # Cr j dl u ? f P'ate-giass and other small mis-
cellaneous funds being included in the reserves
~ ~ . Added Total
Profits. Dividends on £5OOO. to Re- Re-
ioQ, „o 000 „ serves. serves.
TsoJ" “ J2i per cent.« £625 £2,298 £15,698
Iff .. 625 1,881 17,579
•* - 12 * •» » 625 1,133 18,712
1895 ' 1?* ’* •• 625 4 .967 23,679
isofi" if ” ** 750 6 ' 368 29.047
1896 i>'<;nnn’ 286 15 '1 V 750 6 > 536 35,583
£5OOO reserves transferred to capital 30 583
Dividends on £lO,OOO.
1808 ” io’oio JO per cent. =£looo 7,080 37,663
ISOq” ll’aoa Jo’ " •» 1000 n ’ 2lo 48,873
lorn" in •’ » 1000 10 - 898 59,771
9,082 10 „ „ 1000 8,082 67,853
£15,000 reserves transferred to capital . 52 853
Dividends on £25,000.
iwS" 7 P er ce, *t. =£1750 13,715 66,568
1902.. 15,385 10 „ „ 2500 12,885 79,453
That is the way the co. presents its own accounts, but if
the real state of things were shown—if the dividends were
calculated on the £2OOO which the shareholders actually
P 1??. the business, and the capitalised reserves were
still reckoned as reserves—the New Zealand Accident In-
surance Co. would show up for the last five years thus :
Dividends on real capi- Added to Real Re-
i cno tal of £2OOO. Reserves, serves.
£ * 2,2 ™" 60 P e rcent.= £lOOO.. £11,210.. £56,873
fonn" fn *’ ” 1000 -- 49,898.. 67,771
1900.. 9,082.. 50 ~ „ 1000.. 8,082.. 75,853
}991•• 45,465.. 87£ „ „ 1750.. 13,715.. 89,568
1902.. 15,385..125 „ ~ 2500.. 12,885.. 102,453
All that on an original capital of £2OOO, and all done in
23 years ! The reserves consist of reserve fund, £30,000 •
re-insurance fund, £26,000 ; contingency fund, £5,500 ;
undivided profit of accident business, £3158 ; and un-
divided profit of fidelity, plate-glass, and miscellaneous
business, £14,795. The £23,000 of profit capitalised at
various times makes up the rest.
• * * *
■ Attorney-General Wise has been stating
!?£ ondon 4bat all doubts of Australian solvency are but
the outcome of a fantastic dream,” which is wrong •
they are the outcome of a fantastic loan. He also says
49*14 Australians “scorn any repudiation of their respon-
sibilities. That is true enough—and their banks did like-
W'seunt!] 1893. About the only really reliable statement
in Wise s speech for the defence was that “ the charges of
extravagance against the Federal Government were un-
founded. There B.R.W. was on solid ground. If the
btate Governments were half as economical as the Federal
one things would be very different.
* ♦ •* *
‘Bushman”: Wouldn’t advise you to touch
any one of them. No. 6 would be good if it wasn’t for
the heavy call liability on the shares.
• * * *
Toohey s, Limited (Sydney), a great brewing
concern, publishes its second half-yearly balance-sheet
Deficit
(preliminary
expenses).
£5,605
Carried
Net to Nominal
T , Profits. Dividend. Reserves. Reserves
July 1902.. £11,416 _ £11,416 £5,811
Jan., 1903.. 25,606 6 p.c. = £16,500 9,106 14,917
These reserves, however, are purely nominal, and exist
»n papef. They are called : Ordinary reserve fund,
£2500; reserve against goodwill, £sooo;'and undivided
P(9 H 4. £7417. A genuine reserve is siiripl.v the amount by
wmch the nominal reserves exceed goodwill orotherpaper
items among the assets. Tooheys, Limited, has a large
goodwill item to write off before any genuine reserves
? 01 ??£ ln 4o existence, but as it lumps goodwill in with
ouilding, plant, machinery, rolling stock and properties
impossible toBay n how mTh dC, t® item u f £423 - 404 - *«•
now provid ed eoef fc '•?' or how far the £5OOO
tainly P handsome and C . The profits are cer ‘
the same thisTrL»r d f^ e Pf os P ec ts excellent, but all
dark as tothe nniit eep "i g *u h ® shar eholders in the
commendable. Good winin'!,£ W “ cor J cern ‘8 not
time, and what nn««iv.i t 0 be ®®6 forth every
Tooheys can have for ?bi r a eaa K° n t, P ro co. like
understanding. ° r th a absurd concealment passes
did T n^ e m2fe R su^ f lo? ( ? EWERY ’ L * imited (Melbourne),
1901, the absurdk lnw P n° £ re ss du ring 1902 as it did in ■
Melbourne just now at u which is sold in
drawback was the facf thn? . m j Ch a & ainsfc Another
interest payable shows an inp nder fc h e new arrangement
still something further ™ a s„ , e ° f sl !" htl >' over £3OOO.
appalling shortage whlh done to " ardB clearing off the
cleaned up in 1896 Thp „,, aS revea ’? d when things were
look a little less Dorfcen ton mak . es its shortage
asset “goodwill £l5O oorv’h* i 11 - 8 *W Putting d °wn as an
ment that £lso doo L ;np?’ ~ T- 111 4he Allowing state-
isn’t much ofanitpm !" C L uded ,n tbe deficit Goodwill
business which bv wild hn Y CaBe ’ the ff oodwill of a
perties, has acc’umuUted m fi s P® culat ion in hotel pro-
capital is a thing to lie scoffed at t 0 12 timCS itS
Deficit Deficit remaining
Prnfifo (? 00d , wlll >f Capital
Profits, not reckoned were wholly '
4 ffi •• - £41 A llo| X written off.
isos “ £3 ’ 550 407,752 £381211
S :: «■“ “H
SS :: S-i iS SKS
■» ?.21 . SS 8835
bjht ,“m n S5t- ° f ' he CarltM Brew “V ma,
biabilities.
sasssis* °-i s£%.
•J3ST:- •• ’Xf “?. •• • *»*«.
_____ Deflcit •• • 322,893
rp, £832,2/3 £sg9 97s
is 1 s'lowlfbut ’steadily •- debentllre -
ST’Sr aT^a
capftaf 411 8",, half the net P rofi 's- As the
cent, dividend represents
omy about £B3l, which isn’t much—but a company with
such a heavy deficit has no right to pay away even 3 £B3b
safe «i l ough MaC ' D ’ ” : Your life assurance society is
°* » *
The Industrial and Provident Permanent
Deeem , ber 119l I 90 D 2‘"- ANI) IIiVBSTMBNT Societv (Sydney)' to
„ , Added
pfofita Dividends. to Re- Re-
-1896 __ serves, serves-
-1898 ” £ W7 about6 P-C-=»£5519 -
38 :: SS :: SS - SS
gg ” 3211 - "'SS £576 ' 7950
1902 “ 9qql ” >• 3400 ~ 7761
1902 .. 2994 „ 2975 19 7780
The reserves consist of contingent fund, £3972 : and un-
£3BoB. There is also a fluctuating item
at £335 • huMt- 8 d S r, Pen 'f accou ? t ’” whi ch stands just now
at £335 , but it doesn t seem to be a reserve, though its
exact nature is hard to identify. The withdrawal of
paid-up shares still goes on continuously, and the paid-
up capital which stood at £113,525 in 1895, is now only
£47,590. If this process of withdrawal is continued till
there is only one shareholder left, that last lone person
will presumabiy get the reserve funds—if there are any
lx”,: fh they Bho T ? diminishing tendency on the
th ? re . ma y nob be any. The society is less than
to*ll2B Sfln B even years ago-the assets amounted
co £1Z8,522 in 1895, and they now represent only £60,891
Management expenses have diminished also, but not in
the same proportion, and they are likely to absorb a
S and . la , r ff er Percentage of the earnings as the insti-
institutions' 1^8 Th ' B 13 the trouble of all diminishing
• • • .
Yh u e bankruptcy examination last week of David
Chenhall, ex-solicitor, of Sydney, was chiefly interesting
aa sb ?wmg h°w a big legal firm may keep its accounts
mostly in its head, or on its shirt-cuff, or chalked up
behmd the door. Chenhall stated quite frankly that,
when he was practising on his own account, he didn't
even keep a cash-book, let alone a ledger. When he took
a P«taer proper books were started, but they soon began
to fall through from sheer weariness. For the last four
years he thought a cash-book was kept intermittently,
put that was about all. The firm sometimes gave receipts'
for money, and sometimes it didn’t. Even Chenhall’s in-
come-tax return was only prepared once ; in other years,
apparently, he and the Commissioners scrambled to a
compromise. He “ drew what money he wanted ” from
the firm, and didn’t know what his partner drew. This sort
of happy-go-lucky firm is more common than is generally
supposed, and is to be found in all countries. Writer
knew years ago of a large English insurance co. which
casually mislaid some of its books, and couldn’t tell to
within £200,000 or so what properties were insured with
it. Another sold its business very cheaply, mainly
because it had lost all hope of finding out from its own
books how it stood. The chief accountant was badly
wanted in the course of the sale to offer some attempt at
tangible explanation, but he had been missing for a week
ever since he “went to the races.” He was found in
Pans (it proved to be the Grand Prix he had gone to),
very drunk and assaulting a gendarme, but quite unable
to explain anything. And one of the biggest rows that
ever happened in a long since dead English bank only
terminated when the manager found about two dozen
lost cheques hanging up in his old coat, and reckoned he
put them there, as a piece of humor, in some of his
hiceupy moments.
* * *
The City of Goulburn Gas and Coke Co
D’mited (Goulburn, N.S.W.), with a paid-up capital of
£lO,OOO
Added _
Profits. Dividends. to Re- " ,e ‘
_ serves. Berves '
June, 1901.. —•— £59^7
Dec., 1901.. £BO2 15 per cent. =£7so £52 5979
June, 1902.. 762 15 „ „ 750 12 5991
Dec., 1902.. 942 15 „ „ 750 192 6183
These results should be highly satisfactory to the share-
holders.
* • • *
The protest of the A.M.P. Society against the
proposal of Victoria to levy income-tax on the income
derived by assurance societies from investments in that
treme 0 ber “ l » B™* considering the ex-
A. P and otherfiL- w . hlct ?, Victoria has treated the
following tohifch ke u lnBtltutlons U P to now. The
W , h^ r , e the bi - society’s Australasian
each stfata; 00ated m i9O1 > and how much tax it paid in
Premiums Taxes
collected paid
Si" 11 ” if* %!Z
Queensland ... \°' d ™
South Australia 145 029 o'iS
Tasmania .. esnm
Westralia .. 62,808 30
of 1 r^= Maoriland , h u 3 su PP ]ied a little over one-eighth
of Vh» b f«-i f SS ’ an( ?-, has . taken » Pood deal over onedialf
businLa a nH tl i < lv; o H hl e 7 lCtoria ' Bu PP lied a fourth of the
Business and levied no taxes on the A.M.P. Society at all.
nwJvf I’ HEA ™ E Royal Proprietary Co. Limited
(Melbourne) makes pretty steady progress nowadays :
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re-
, Reserves serves.
Dec 6 ’ 1901 moo || P er cent. =£6oo £248 £2469
June’ m)l !9?n A " » 600 490 2959
Dec 1902 IMK li " ** 600 610 3569
Dec., 1902 1365 3J „ „ 800 565 4134
f be earnings show a material increase, but even now
£4B onO A r nj;?r nt 6 f r Cent ' on the Paid-up clpital ot
<t4o,(MJO. And the co., it must be admitted puts the best
face on its accounts. No allowance seems to be
made for depreciation of the building ; and when £413
cTrg P ed n to°the ne h':h eCOrationS aboUt W ago it wasn’t
cnargea to the half-year s earnings, but put down as an
l^u be w 7 ltten . off b y instalments spread over five
of five yJa h rs Se deCoratlons wiU be P re tty grimy at the end
* * • ,
Weeks novv there has been talk of the
Burra (S.A.) mines resuming operations The latest
rumor-one that has often been hashed up before-U
that the mines are to be worked on tribute.
*** ’ «
Arltnnga goldfield, Centralia, is providing Ade-
early e ?uallin^the^ the madnesf of the
early iiroken Hill and Westralian days. All on the
strength of glowing reports from a F.G.S. who glories in
sesquipedalian technical phraseology. These reports
want a lot of chewing before being swallowed P
‘‘Wandorer”; Too diffuse and vain-glorious.
"Mti’s" T h ™ if""
to prevent the stoek from beinq quoted, but if Uiere wefe
a proclaimed buyer at 3d., the chances are that he would
have "early 30,000 shares shot at him. Mark Twain
knew what he was writing* about when he stated “ t hp
Sc .^ h R barKlle i the amalgam has the big end of the
at ai k '- no ,y uotbing about the managing director.
• ?L UlC f ' I revlous answer applies to your case. Ba«*
is the slave who pays—calls. *
* * * •
B. H. South has had a poor half-year 1
, Ore treated. Gross profit. Divs. Reserve
June, 99 .. 43,150 tons £15,656 £20,000 Nil"
Dec., 99 .. 48,137 „ 29,731 15,000 2500
June,’oo.. 48,004 „ 29,207 so mn 9™
Dec., ’OO .. 49,007 ” 30,807 !o,Z 25W
June,’ol.. 51,091 „ 15337 10 ’o£;
Dec., ;01 .. 51,650 ” 8 695 £
June, ’o2 .. 67,359 „ 23,622 10 000 n
Dec., >O2 .. 68,948 I! 8&1 NU
In the three half-years since June, ’Ol, old tailings have
also been re-treated, as follows Dec., ’Ol 85 tons •
June, ’O2, 12,276 tons ; Dec., ’O2, 13,245 tons The
reserv o fund was started in ’99, and now amounts to
£7500. It does not appear, though, that this fund is
kept apart ; £5OOO is apparently represented by dehen.
tures (Metrop. Board of Works), but the other £»500
The. “gross profit” showniswiS
deduction foi depreciation or for income tax ; the co.
follows the questionable practice of charging the whole
year s income tax to the Jan.-June half. The directors
making the not too liberal allowance of 10 per cent ner
annum for wear and tear of plant, write off £4373: this
l^ 8 * 4 -' 4 net Profit, and the income tax still to pay
tha? I^^'rnn^f 8 mab marerin > notwithstanding
that 13,245 tons of old tailings were re-treated, which re-
duced the stock of this fairly rich and cheaply-handled
product to less than a 12 months’ further supply The
i,
Half-year lead. Silver, Half-year Lead, Silver
to p.C. oz. to p.c 07
Dec., 1899.. 23*4 B*2 Dec., 1901.. 17*7 93
June, 1900.. 21-4 8 - 8 June, 1902.. 18'3 9-2
Dec., 1900.. 19‘88 8 - 9 Dec., 1902 17*7 7-4
June, 1901.. 20-49 9-2
On the basis of last half-year’s working the co. can pav
bare working expenses with silver at Is. lid. and lead oh
ff b , o he fn 0 IS ', 6d - Apart from the price?
its best hope lies in the improvement of metal recoveries •
at present 30 per cent, of the lead, 46 per cent, of the
silver and 92 per cent, of the zinc go over the waste
dump, and the zinc that doesn’t go that way isn’t paid
* * • *
B.H. South is wisely rushing on its new shaft:
not only is it sinking from surface, but it is also “ rising ”
from crosscuts at 500 ft. and 600 ft 8
• • • .
B.H. South Blocks had, at Dec. 31, reduced its
credit balances to £2708; £2600 was spent in the half,
year in further developing the ore body, which at 200 ft
L 8 P°w exposed for 420 ft., with a width where tried of
2 i ft - Directors and manager say nothing more definite
about this ore than that it is of “high grade"- as a
matter of fact, though it may average 21 per cent lead
its silver runs to only 3or 4oz. Even then; if the co had
a, milling plant and railway connection, the ore isn’t
grade enough to pay. Lead will have to see
£l2 10s. before any profits are made-that, or big changes
will have to take place in Broken Hill ore-treatment.
• • * *
The opal market is very sick again, especially
i°. r Pv?nf S 7n ( V and rl h t ere 13 btt,e of other «>rtoffering
at White Cliffs. Returns from the older blocks have
fallen off very much ; yet few men will face the heavy,
dead-work involved in prospecting new country with
practically no “indications ’’ to help. *
• • • •
Several months ago it was prophesied that
Araluen Valley Consolidated Co. would soon be on the
div. list, and that “an average weekly yield of lOOoz
and that was expected to be exceeded- meant monthly
6d. dividends. A 6d. div. absorbs £l2OO, and at 400 oz
per month, worth, say, £1520, leaves £320 for working
exs. Anticipated lOOoz. per week has not come off—
it never does-but at least 60oz. per week has been
obtained. This, on above basis of £320 working exs ner
month, should leave £590 profit, or £3540 for six months
and not even one dividend has been declared ’
• *,, * * *
‘ Sessill : Hammond and Begg are apparently
doing well in the black sand near Cape Byron (N S W )
although continued rough weather has given them heavy
stripping. Platinum, tin, gold, monazite, and iridium
tire being won. The patch is, however, nearly worked
out, and the party is prospecting by means of that in-
genious contrivance, the sledger. These valuable black
sand patches are obviously the effect of natural sluicing
by, the ° ce an.Close by the party's camp is a huge bank
of kuch sand which is beyond high-water mark and would
not come within cooee of wages. The country round is
the natural sandy heaths or hills-the red, volcanic soil
stopping short of the coast, there, by some miles. Hence
the mouths of an old river or two are apparent Ham
mond showed me splendid wash tin (grey), and a small
diamond obtained from gravel wash ten miles inland.
The men are capable find are said 'to have soilie secret*
process of separation Little attention is paid to mining
in the Big Scrub, but the 'Nightcap Range (between thl
Tweed and the Richmond) is worth prospecting for both
stanniferous and auriferous indications. Probably
M’Pherson Range also. J
Assocmtod (W.A.) has a diamond drill at work
le ou of , Judd’a shaft, and is boring about
Should the continuation of the Brown
in be CU * ; there would be a very sharp rise
Ji V? 6 ®?"P- A ba / crosses the country near the boundary
, ?? se ’ an d may have knocked things endways.
f h ®°'. the , ore . *>™g through the mills is coming from
daha h - le ' e ej ’’ S Bllaft > Where some verv rioi *
tin„ Pfl v™! ng ° ( - b i altle l, The ,lline on the whole con-
furnaoo* patchy. The first of the dozen Merton
hnt- ihe f n H der are ex P. ected to arrive early in April,
in the year* d ° Zen 416 not “ kel * v to be at work tiu wel * 011
,** * •
Associated Northern (W, A.); Ore reserves are
Thenho d h at \?°’ 000 tons > containing 291,0000 z. of gold.
Isnow Lm® bee ? Cut J a i the 750 f - level, and the ihaft
nass thrnnn-h oontinued down to the 950 ft., and should
Anri) th p .n h the . rlcb ore located by the drill early in
mnp L o f h ° re , I s st ' n bein 8T despatched to the Dapto
Xnt maintain the current yield till the mine’s own
Monarch rFu 8 three outsid e blocks- Iron
hVJL K h * Menlnd,e Hill, and Menindie Hill East, which
t-inn 6 been mor . e . or less under exemption since co.’s flota-
drill’in^ 6 t , horou - h I.V Prospected by diamond
Ihp pmmi These blocks are situated to theN.E., where
naLhin ml h t S been very little prospected, and where no
paj able lodes have so far been located.
* * * ,
ifo^ rea . fc (W.A.) appears to have got over
” C u° U u le - 8 ’ Annual meeting will be held next
month, by which time it is expected that everything will
cnmPn and - the Postponed dividend will be forth-
lhe mine continues toopen up satisfactorily at
’ and . reserves of ore are gradually on "the
increase. During January the 60 head mill treated
,’°; jbtons Jo/. 12 - 894 oz. in 30 days. This shows a duty
fnH m mp 0f j ons dady, wh ich is a record for the mill,
the quart! g °° d work > considering the hard nature of
cj * * • •
bons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), is looking
01 ' a J° ng time Past. Main undelay
n 1 400 ft., and at several of the lower levels
south nf showingmarked improvement both north and
s®“*,, L the . sl ? af u’ Mlne is now in charge of Mr. G.
working ei K h th manager in five years. Co. is now
t , n a Bmall proflt> but > as it is unlikely to pay
I^.AH than -e°i Pe /o Cent - on its present grade of ore on its
" ap ' ta ' of 318 ' 000 shares, scrip is intrinsically not
lative m ° re tban par * an J b 'K b er price is purely specu-
• *
F xt ? nded (W.A.): First parcel
ch “te ymided 51}50z. from 2041 tons, an
j a ® e ot 2^°. z - P, er ton. This looks good enough, but it
lonk m n a tOI1 I ! ess than the management led people to
mon/ho of?°" W u- P robabl y maintain this output for six
after 'j hl ® b the deluge. No prospecting work is
bein,, done, and the eastern lode, on which co. will have
to depend for its permanency, has proved very patchy
p U :; e S le B< \ far - Pr °P ert - v is situated just on the
known payable" ores? a " d 18 " 0t in the tle,,d of a '*J’
( Continued on page 30. )


David Jones & Co.
-ORIENT” BOOTS.
Special Purchase oi Aatencaa-
tnade Scots, Black *r 3rc * 3
Via Kid.
r'i- - i
By Post
22 -
George 4 Barrack Sts.
-^SYDNEY.
• •
kuppers FJberteld Lager.
Society
[?]
[?]
There will be a h irer controversy over the
St. Patrick s day holiday question in N.S.W. this
year. The R.C. organ evi et tly knows that a
public holiday will be declired. and stares that
tie Cardinal will merely jsk the Premier for the
day as a formal matter. Last year the holiday
proved a fiasco, ait-b if snytrr g. the sectarian
feeling is now more b- trer than ever, so that if the
day is declared it will not be generally observed.
It is quite possible that Premier See will declare
the day. and then haggle afterwards, as be gener-
ally does, and finally get angry and declare
irrelevantly that t.ie remarkable success of tae
last loan effectually dispro -es tne charges of has
enemies. Ac.
• • • •
Police Commissioner Colonel Mad ley is
gstti-g anxious to bang someone in South Aus-
tralia. The late tragedy at Stirling West has
recalled the fact that the murderers of Bertha
Sv ’ppar and Mrs. Martin rare not vet been eoe-
vicced. Three unsolved murders within 15 months
is a good deal foe a quiet, tuous Lstle place _ke
S.A.'
THE USES OF A GOOD SET.
F[?] GILL: "Can't [?]d you [?]. Will you my it DRLIN!"
CRAN[?] SCSSC[?] (who [?] [?] wuiting for hulf-an-[?]ur): "I [?]'t [?]ing any[?]ting. I
[?] only gainding my [?]!"
A writer ia Melb. Ac* jib 5 06 , oa sonae-
taing or other that doesn't matter signs nimseii
* • Patriot. * Patnccs of tne same sort irocced ap
on 0 ? •'« during the late war. wnen our toys ’
mere figotmg for their ecceatry. Anyone mho
has tne creek to call mused a patriot ought to be
kicked. If a man. after a hie stent in tne serv.ee-
ec ms country, and after sacrificing everything'
in ns cause preferaci v a bistr cause , awnld i.azani
a theug- 1 of reward, it might oe toa: suctreeumg
generanons snculd confer on lun the sacred aa-ne
of patriot. Aad yet every mean scribcer mho
boycotts 'os neig-ibor for daring to direr from
J .das of Birtnmg''am, has tne audacity to deecrme
bimseh by t.e name that graced Leo nidus.
Burglar Bill" speaks from experience :
Specimen of **inside” justice. A prisoner may chad
Is.-re the weight of his bread, meat, sizar, tea, etc- The
scales and depaty-governor are immediately on the
•cene. If the article ts short the deficiency is made ap.
If it polls the scales the prisoner is looked up, broach t
before She visiting beak, and gets, oa aa average, three
days “ light cells. ” I challenged the weight three times.
Twice I was in the riche ; the third time—well, I faced a
charge of •'making a statement r-e-zard:r.g food which
was liable to cause a riot” After that even if the pound
of bread had beea IT ounces short I wouldn't have said
aav thing.
• » • •
Evangelical conference now or Lately
sitting in Sydney has been drawing big audi-
ences to listen to the discussion of the pops*
latioo problem, and such like subjects. Canon
Jones, in a vigorous lecture, objected to the fre-
quent elimination of certain parts of the marrixie
service, and strongly condemned the habit or
“ limiting the family. * There is a carioasly wide-
spread agitation against Xeo-Malthusianism ia
the world just now. The Ftenen Governnsent
has been striving by legislatior to deal with a very
slowly-increasing—almost stationary—population,
and t le strenuous United States President has set
on ibota^social agitation against child leas marrieew.
Public critici'-n and discussion seem to be having
some good effect. In France the population
returns have improved lately, and in Australia
families are becominc the fashion again. Syd-
ney’s birt/i-rate for 19»i3 was the best, numerics y,
sate IAU. and the best relatively to the adult
population since lllU.
• • • •
A com in unity gets just what plague it
deserves. The back yard of the premise-* where a
recent outbreak occurred was filled with old bones,
stinking fish, and other waste matter a foot deep:
but. because the owners were haring renovations
made in other parts of the town, the local Board
of Health did not insist upon the refuse being
carried away, though it had made an order to that
effect.
• • • •
Noteworthy whac one strenuocs. energetic
man can accomplish. The Melbourne Board of
Hetltr is practically Dr. GresswelL the rest of
the members being segligeable. In spite of its
rery limited powers, the Board aas already got
the'meat supply of Vic. mecrooolis at a stage near-
ing terfecciec. and is now engaged on a Bill regu-
lating the milk striply. It seeks power to keep a
fatneriv eye cm the cow. the paddocks it came
from, the miser, the sheds, the dairy, the uten-
sils. and even the small boy who adjures Straw-
berry to get along. Erery dairy-aim. if the Beard
has its w\v. will hare to supply bis local coancil
with a half-yearly certificate of Strawberry's
health.
In N.S.W. there is ctie Aw fir the white
A i'trxluAn and aoccher muc c -uilu ten branu rer
the Chew and the foreigner within our rates.
Wren a white riis,irt mnreaed into Qucug Tartk
’ -.-.- 1 l.u '•’ 1 . * * 3.1- 1 1 - it :
that estimnnle Chinese dealer e ver tne read witn
an iron bar. the Law rare _:m 13 rears. Mire
recently, a Chinese cab me maker, named. A-d hzzs
at Waterloo, attacked a party of white Australian
boys with an open knife and scaiced one to dean.
That Chow baa just been awarded fmr y«zrs only.
The mints Aistreliaa gets 13 years for hitting a
Chow. .ut a Chow only pite four years for ki—mg
a white Aistranam
HE MOIGHT HOV SHPOILT THE WAKE.
MISSES HENNISSY: "So poor Casey's game."
MISTHUR BURKE: "Yis, and ph[?]at did he doi
fron?"
MISSUS H.: "The doether [?]id gellov panders."
MISTHUR B.: "T[?], by Hiria, it's a good job
fur th' decti[?] that C[?]ky [?] know th'
color till he pegged out."
Mr. George Reid parades his merecririoGS
“ decr-ora- y on everv possible occasion. A
Sydney railway suburb tas- a leper resident mho.
haring' is to be momiadilrd in at tso-Aied
house of his own. instead of being consigned, to a
lazarecie. Mr. Reid, in a fetter to a meeting
called to protest: —
H the "eatieniaa. foe whose :Tmess we must *2 feel the
most profound re-rrec, had been a peer nan. would he
act have beea iaim so she usia, pdure hr tne sreannent
of sack iiseases wefioo; at j sect of letav -ir teremccy *
Of course, if the puneni had been a poor man. he
mould aoe be aole lo buy a special house And pay
for special nursing. TbaXs ohn< xm tmngh Eat
Mr. Rend atauc paste his political pesters even on
tee body of ah an nappy leper patient.
As to the advisability of the B-iant of Health
allowing a leper to be segregated ia a pocu'.-wr
suburb, that is a matter which has to be irgnec
on grounds of prejudice ratber than at scr-r.ce.
It A ctmanly speaking, qaite rertara that tne
dwell mg of a leper in an isolated ho-ise ia a
populous quarter mould be of ao prepniice so the
public hestlth. Lepreev A not at all easily ecm-
muni'.'-ai-.e. and a scmciencl.y ngr: qaarintime
eoclri be secured tracer such conditions. But
lirtocant popular prejudice has tc be considered.
ScrathJield. the suburb affected, is mostly inhabited
by the fairly weL’-tc—io. who are more liable than
any ocher cltss to ignorant prejudice. And it is
possible that the weighhorfeood m which the lecer
takas np his residence mill te banned. That
mignt indact grave cars on innocent mdi finals,
leading to serious depreciation at the value of
their property. S viney Eoarb oc Hsaltn tad.
pereaps. becter shift its pr. -ate laaarette to some
more snareelr-inhaitted rejmon.
• • • •
The average successful robber is me a
good business man. In tact, he :as no idea of
lusmess at all The pecc.e who are supposed to
have gcc away with the Bank of Australasia's
neews a: Ralgto-rlie aeced ;usc as the m-i-omy f
itscy incomptiecss do. They travelled cp and
down the country and made a great spiaso. Iniying
cosciy rings and pearl and diamond trmkess. T e
business class of meter, when has portmanteau s
safely packed with the plunder, steals away like
the rase less fabric of a dream, and s reard of no
mere. X.' sciash. ac Sreworks —nocring. In tne
Weesralian ase reran theatrical people ha-re
been arrested. Hem they came into th - basin ess
isn't clear, hut it * so rarely that t e waa'iering
player 'as a good time, and is able to throw
money about with bota han-is. that it mas cruelty
to mterrupc them. Australia, by the may. 15 a
good place fee tee big emcesrler to jet away m.
if tne average embezzler only knew his tusmess.
He wants to have tee regmstte eld dcches ready,
tlso tie requisite ccecs. and joss strike rnlanu.
5 r the time be has been three days on the road
if te can avoid deteccicn sc 'eng. he will re
disreputable and nnsnaved enongn to decue any
ordinary sentiny. ?ut wren be fires in bus own
ordinary character by ri. 1. then Australia ma t a
good place for tue recreating embezsler.
• • • •
MfeirlLtnd savertrsemec.'
Loos.—On January "Iftn. *3 ;re wifi# of
Wulram Lock .tile CmwatMl ?reviife-‘, of a son.
Uhe riling passica scroeg m birtc 1
• • • •
Tie country Method it. it mvm i seem, .s
icc sc slow and saint. • after all. In aug scuebere
IS 5 - v town toe 'k- ly-ias oi c sed s. rets* as
a means ex'ado ng to the ch xr.-h reads and tb s
was tae advertisement n the local pairecs;—
osjcvr stsTaoctas ban^cit.
Tnssoav. Jastra** 13ra» n«SS.
XTTTTNIi s»ewc. Mr Opening the Sew Ysac.
Taoies reciec* wrek saitKy wtaovis.
Saais, Pkuitrv. Beef, itucren. Shnitiings, Pies.
■Satuos. Jedies. Fn.t, see., sec.
Ottm.im ua> wa.cresses,
T .wscs. ami SSng-.mc
pickets 2s.
, Hum. Sec.
As a further inducement tire trekess also scaree
t.:ere was good movckgot’
• • • *
Vffsashsy, A Msloeume body s busutees
sign:—
Madame . So.-e u ic ''xx.se. rereacicu’sc. -''a.usce,
Piaacctn s teacaer Suppog : FleutA issswus.
The tattooeEs art received
nicer a set-back a few weeks ago
when a woman of the unfortunate
ckt-ie wa* found dead near Mel-
bcurne wrth th* names of one-time
ardent lovers arti-tkally tattooed
oc her I’m be, with incriminating
meseag-s accompanying. Love may
d.e. bat the tattoo lie remains till
the worms gAther at the feast!
Tocher day, Mrs. Cuxiewis ''Ethel Turner),
in she g-xjdness of her heart suggested in the
press that, as a method at b&pisi “the drought-
izr.ck~a oat-hack, she eoar.sabtf-dk*posed should
Ti«ce onto ia bam a packing-ease (the larger the
cfetter . into miner mere to be stowed Polly's last
year's hat. “with some fresh nbbooa,* Mary's
ditto bfooae, papa's and the boyr anetent pants,
etc.. and such varied as.~GrtEiens of other wearing
ac carei. as woiijir. t he otetakew for mosquito-nets
in a Moderate light Any odd space Lett after the
pa.: smug of these items was to be filled with such
caltitt toamodibei as any well-regulated pantry
would pre-side. The resile anti cress drew a
no oug picture of the cm-caok girl being suddenly
drawn tack frutn the »ery orink of despair by the
ad rent of tee year's iresclyier.bbooed’hat;
and liirem-ige. of the out-back kid arriving home
from scnocL to “ find roof, moist fruit oo a clean,
wzize cfoKh, instead of the bare table, with
its reeking nat, damper, etc.* Next day,
F-;— .10, iLI_A. ilsc in print. waned wroth at
the idea, and opined t.tat the sturdy self-respect-
ing And independent cookie weed look upon such
lifiemss as an rnsudi to himself and his family,
A.-d threw oot a general sort of invitation
to the lady to be present as the Arrival of the first
case, if sue had aut euncsisy as to the vigor of
sue cockle s ary. Thus seems to have hurt
the lady scmeccw. and sue next paper showed an
is.- and sere at letter frees fier pen. wherewith she
adoad IQ guineas as a sign, of ter indignation.
The puodc men. sas dew- to wait for Holman,
V LA, to become in;tree by sue lady's remarks,
and send deng- luoer er T) girl teas to show his
wrath. After iB, she lady's well-meant sng-
zesti*:n wis rather impracticacie. When the box
rad bees oaeksc. and tad gone by slow tram to
•lodficrrecten. auc tad Lam. there ia the sun for a
da- or two -fi" it rcihd te sukreed by mail-coach
or cudeck-dreT ;n a 24-tocr sirecot to Godfor-
saken. and is Ay there Agtdt till some casual
person tatcened along to give the sun-.-truck
—:i * 1,-c a fifit tnreoiru the ta&ustc*m to its final
testmation. its rcc tenia mould be emefiy foul
rags, aaCs auc sc n.sh.
HIS FIRST REBUFF.
"'[?] brks yer 'orrit r[?] [?]k-[?]'s 'ot. Yer
beam al[?]yin' [?] in yer tr[?]rs [?]."
Birr;a wee* frota P«t (^el-
knsrrott. ML. ;
T\Oik.Y. sae wire -rt lies. zt i Baby Monkey :J** h
-*- iuing vt&i. is Htsrncccaam s Tat
SStente
• • • •
Aascrtiiugts ohujuj eipMt * Io« nu®
plaunt a * recent i's'£yt»i Xkw? :
’ Sr. 4L Berer-dite «t-te rem Hay :—*-»* °J"“£
stfwrs M's ieeufed. upon »«V «ort no®."*, so
. wee nscswi Jt soi trxns «wi > ■
£Bu> causing seesaws neon re<neaee and ** . •
person rt trace jf any tmi The rempiauics ever?
ire taw fee* .. . I**fcatrip «. **r h*2“
Sing s Cress. London. » -- assW'*. *» r > T «■* -
si utce as sniaes 3-' Hat n sans xctirt.
sara,! .rest. smooej tra-riling ansi * «**■
bowed Sot is. id Tw asn hhßuuut **“ *
takes IT Jours ior *5O miles.” . ...
Fri*tt*y «ea Hgy las m«* gwl»<*g
also iit« ta seres «■'•.«. Bat .* “ I **v __
: ■ 1 .. ■ • . " '• ' ,T
sowtuo a; aLL la tne bcld Cuan**?* i .
x «i<- cu.leers OKN across a w(P« A
a.vut u.-se * wir times as Jaickly pefpi- ,
- -•'•■' •:.
WteWittW VW WUcfe “
un-ewkwayed »tins day.
FIRST INNINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It matters not wko (fences with jet sweet.
With whom she bicycles of afternoons.
Wha; oaa she talks to ia the mid-day street,
Ov ia what aftemoou-tea-shop she spccoa.
These aier. are stale to her. even as the day.
Aid she has heard the words they say before ;
If they make lore, their time is thrown away—
They wakes memories In her. nothing more.
For I was walking with her at sunrise ;
I tasted from her lips the morning dew;
We saw the dawning in each others eyes.
And keep the sight ia mind the !ccg day through.
AWANNA.
IN MY OFFICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tne Jos'* on the wave,
The gulA float free;
And the a, tatrteg sails
On the open sea.
The salt breeze calls
T«v the tern,
Aid he red-zums tall
To the waters yeans.
Scr-sfcin* led breeze,
Blue sky, white spray,
Cad to my heart—
“ Come, come and play |
** Work is for Age;
Youth shcoid be free
To dream away life
On tee ta-girt sea !*
FATR[?]


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen's hairdressing saloon in
Syd ney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney.*
m
tt
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but!
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
66
L
K
V
H
S
w
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD. ~
’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
r When the plague last visited Melbourne,
• there was much talk of rat extermination and
garbage destructors, etc.—the town clerk was
even despatched on a European -tour to inquire
.into the habits and customs of these machines.
The plague passed, and with it all good resolu-
tions. T’other day. Health Officer Dr. Morris
tfound the W. Melbourne dock and wharves
“literally swarming with rats, and the tip fairly
.alive with them.”
* * * •
N.S. W. Full Court warily dodged peti-
tioner Chard’s application to fix the civil value
of a wife. Chard had married “in second
nuptials” before a decree absolute, with its
days of grace attached, was complete,
and on the strength of that desired to have
his marriage declared null and void. The court
refused to declare anything of the kind, and
Mr. Chard determined to go farther on—to the
Privy Council. But the Privy Council will not
entertain an appeal on a matter under £5OO
value, unless under certain complicated circum-
stances that don’t apply in this case. That legal
ass’s bridge makes Mr. Chard advance the plea
that a wife is worth £5OO or over. But as cer-
tainly she is sometimes worth less, N.S.W. Full
Court showed sense in keeping silence. No wise
Court would rush into such a discussion when it
could avoid it.
• • • •
The things that Sydney Harbor Trust
dredged out of the Beautiful Harbor during 1902 :
3944 rats, 2344 dogs, 1631 cats, 2337 fowls, and one
bag of fowls, 415 bags of meat, 442 bags of fish, 19
ducks, 34 pigs, 1 porcupine, 426 bags of rabbits, 1
native bear, 17 calves, 3 kangaroos, 1 wallaroo, 61
hares, 48 sheep, 1 case of sheep’s trotters, 26 goats,
8 bales of hay, 85 bags of chaff, 31 parrots, 3 fly-
ing-foxes, 4 sharks, 2 bullocks, 1 snake, 3 sides of
beef, 16 turkeys, 5 lambs, 4 stingrays, 2 squirrels,
and three crates. This makes no mention of the
half-a-dozen citizens fished up during the year,
they, apparently, not being counted in the “bag.”
Seemingly, the whole index of the living and the
dead is pitched into the beautiful harbor in a short'
twelve-months space. Still there is consolation ;
the harbor is a lot more beautiful with those
things out of it.
INSUFFICIENTLY DECAYED.
HE: “ You think I am too old for love. ”
SHE: “Oh, dear no; hut you are too young for
marriage. Why, you might live another
dozen years.”
The veteran Boucaut, presiding at S.A.
Criminal Sittings, dealt sharply with one or two
appeals from the dock. He developed a fondness
for year-and-a-half sentences, giving these alike
for bicycle-stealing (several cases), a small em-
bezzlement, shop-breaking, and a big embezzle-
ment, the last-named case having the benefit of
an impassioned appeal by Josiah Symon. But a
man who stole a horse from squatter Angas, and
pleaded that he thought, out of so many
hundreds, one would not be missed, was told he
had a “bad mind,” and got two years. And a
humorous reprobate with a bad record, who
suggested that he should be discharged under the
“Old Offenders’ Act,” was called a “licensed
villain,” and a “bad brazen man.” “I would
sooner give you life,” said the indignant Boucaut;
and gave him eight years. Humor is an expensive
luxury—in the dock. Boucaut is largely develop-
ing the habit of lecturing offenders. A young
man who pleaded guilty to libelling his uncles,
two prominent citizens, was released on his own
recognisances; but he was told “if you received
12 months’ imprisonment with a whipping, it
might teach you better manners, and you would
not be getting too much. ... I don’t know
whether you are a little bit touched.” And as
the accused was settling formalities with the
Associate, the Judge leaned over and remarked,
“ It ’s a pity you have not been in the navy and
married the gunner’s daughter once or twice ! ”
which piece of nautical slang seemed to bewilder
the youth completely.
* • • *
A German nine-year-old at a N.S. W.
public-school, asked for an essay on “the most
miserable day I ever spent,” wrote with some
wisdom:
The most miserable day I ever spent is not so very easy
to find out, but I think it is when I was a baby. I only
had to sit down, and keep there. If I wanted to do any-
thing, I had to cry. Another thing, I could not
sit where I liked; I had to stay where I was
put. And when I got bigger enough to be wheeled
about in a purambulator, it was not very pleasant. They
would tip it up side down, and I would get a buster —a
lump on the head or something. And, after they tip me
over, they don’t tell. I think that is my most miserable
day ! ever had.
How’s this for a fine sample of cheek?”
News item from Melbourne (19/2/’O3): —
Those prisoners who were to be tried at the Criminal
Court, some of whom may be acquitted, all had their
trials postponed one day, through Mr. Justice A’Beckett
suspending the sitting of the Court because his son was
to be married in the afternoon.
Doubtless, the marriage of Mr. A’Beckett’s son is
of more importance to Mr. A’Beckett than the
insignificant circumstance of keeping possibly
innocent men in gaol a day more than is absolutely
necessary, but Mr. A’Beckett is paid, not to
attend his son’s marriage, but to sentence or re-
lease those men with the least possible delay. If
Mr. A’Beckett hasn’t noticed this it is time some-
body led Mr. A’Beckett into a quiet spot and
mentioned the fact to Mr. A’Beckett.
* * « *
A shock for Railway-Minister Bent.
Verbatim copy of letter received by a country
M.L.A. (N.S.W.):
Honered Sir.—l hope you will not think me intruding
to much in asking you to get me a free pass to Albury
and then to Melbourn. My hollidays start in ten days,
so pleas lose no time in getting it for me. I will want it
for one munth. Pleas write soon and don’t forget. I
voted for you last elecsion.
Your humble servant,
• * * *
Earl Yarmouth recently enlightened the
British public on Australian customs generally,
and gave the following specimens of dance lingo
near Mackay (Q.): “I actually heard the
M.C. announce—‘Gents will please choose their
meat for the next polka.’ . . . Also —‘Seize your
skin for a waltz !’ ’’ The Earl seems to have
spent most of his time philandering among the
pushites.
• • * •
“ Seraphina ” : At mv boarding-house a
lady laments the murderous tendencies of her
three-year-old son. He kills every living thing
within his province—chickens, kittens, flies, ants,
beetles, etc. He tried a hornet last, but a hornet
is full of “buts.” Later on the lady confided to
me that she “tried all she knew” to destroy the
child before its birth. Cause and effect?
* • •
Policemen collecting information for elec-
toral rolls are in the habit of deciding on
the “ occupation ” of married women,
according as they employ servants or
not. If the latter, they are labelled
“domestic duties”; if the former,
“lady.” As
the latter
“oecupa -
tion” is un-
known to
the law, as
its use
draws in-
vidious
class - dis -
tinctions
not intend-
ed by the Electoral Act, as
it compels the working-
man’s wife to declare that
she is not a “lady,” and
as the practice bears signs
of being evolved from the
brain of some flunkey-
spirited police officer or
official, clear directions
should at once be issued
to remove this snobbery
from our new rolls. If “married
woman ” is a good enough description
for the purposes of formal legal deeds
iti is certainly good enough for the purposes of an
electoral roll.
* * * *
Dr. Klein, expert to the Local Govt.
Board, London, bought, by direction, two Bd.
pork pies and two 2d. pork, - and analysed them.
“None contained bacillus coli, and none con-
tained spores of any pathogenic aerobe. But all
contained spores of anaerobic non-pathogenic
bacillus babyricus. Also, all contained spores of
bacillus mesentericus vulgatus and staplylo-coccus
albus of two different kinds.” Truly fearsome-
even for a pork-pie 1 But what The Bulletin
wants to know after all this is, were the pies
really bad ?
* • • *
A letter from “Cheetah”:—
Considering: the numerous blunders of members of the
medical profession, I think we should have a Medical
Judiciary, the members of which might be placed beyond
reproach by reason of their salaries and training. On
account of the number of deaths through the malad-
ministration of chloroform, the cases of septic poisoning
that arise through the use of dirty instruments, the care”
less diagnosis of even the simplest infantile complaints ;
and for a thousand and one other valid reasons—this is’
necessary. At present many medicos are merely legalised
butchers, while the majority are of little use other than
to give “ a certificate of death ” to permit of no delay
over the funeral of the departed. Wanted--an indepen-
dent Court of Medical Inquiry !
Which is interesting, if only to show public mis-
conception on medical matters. Deaths from
chloroform are too common: septic poisoning
from the use of dirty instruments is, however,
rare ; and as to careless diagnosis of the simplest
infantile complaints !!—well, the medical treat-
ment of the adult (who can describe his symptoms
and tell where the pain is) may be generally
described as putting drugs that little is known about
into a stomach of which much less is known ; and
the scientific medical treatment of the “simplest
infantile complaints” is a thing that sanguine
doctors don’t even dream about as yet. “Chee-
tah’s” idea that it is easy to treat an infant
“because it is such a little thing” is almost
equalled in absurdity by the statement that “the
majority of doctors are of “little use other than
to give a certificate of death.” Almost all legally
qualified doctors can be relied upon to be able to
give some help in eases of illness, very great help
m eases of accident. That they can’t perform
miracles and see into the inside of a squalling
infant is not their fault, but the fault of the reli-
gious organisations which let miracles go out of
fashion.
NO ENCOURAGEMENT.
FORTUNE TELLER: “Come an' 'ave yer fortune
told.”
BILLO : “ Na—bli’me if I do. The larst time I
was told I would be ’ung.”
Part of the legacy of the war. Some
Sydney push members now are armed with
Mauser pistols, brought over from S’Africa by
cohentingenters; and the Mauser pistol is the
deadliest small-arm in the world.
* * *
TheN.S.W. magisterial bench which will
be able under B. R. Wise’s new Bill to rope-in the
putative father before the illegitimate is seen
may, according to a veteran stipendiary, meet,
with trouble, There is, it appears, an unrepealed
Act of Charles 11. which, in the event of a
magistrate’s decision in such cases being success-
fully appealed against, decrees that the magistrate
shall support the illegitimate child until a father
for it can be found.
* • * 9
There is quite an appendicitis scare in
Australia: and one effect of it is that passion-
fruit are not popular, it being imagined that the
seeds are liable to cause appendicitis
A man named John Candler was, the other
day, prosecuted at Stawell
(Vic.) by a “ combine ” of
clergymen for sending
what they were pleased
to call blasphemous matter
through-the post. Thisjs
the first result of a very
dubious clause in the Com-
monwealth postal, law. It
seems that Candler had
sent to the clergymen of
Stawell a printed circular
denouncing the Biblical
theory of creation and
Christianity as
preached in these
days. For this he
was fined £lO, with
£3 3s. costs. He was
further prosecuted for
circulating printed
matter not bearing the
name of the printer. This
time he fell in to the extent
of £5 fine. The second,
fine was deserved, although it
would appear that
the meek and
lowly parsons in-
stituted the prose-
cution out of
malice. Although .
Candler was fined ,
for sending blasphemous matter through the post,
it is quite certain that neither the parsons who
prosecuted nor the bench that adjudicated could
define blasphemy. Cardinal Manning tried, arid
only ended in the vague assertion that it was
“ resistance to the known truth.” But 150 years
ago it was a known truth that Slieol was situated
in the interior of the earth—and where is that
known truth now? A much better definition was
given by Ingersoll, when he said : “ Priests have
invented a crime called blasphemy. That crime
is the breastwork behind which ignorance, super-
stition and hypocrisy have crouched for thousands
of years, and shot their poisoned arrows at the
pioneers of human thought.”
* » • *
Writes “Sol. S.’’ on one side (and not
necessarily the right side) of a controversy :
The Maoriland First Offenders Probation Act, well-
meant as it was, is proving not only a dismal failure, but
an incentive to crime, as the juvenile criminal can
generally count on getting off the first time. Few of
this class seem to care for work after conviction, even
when employers are forthcoming. They prefer to hang-
round the country pubs, in some menial capacity, some-
times being useful to the police as spies. But, Sooner or
later, they find their way to gaol under the Vagrant Act. .
The last case on record is that of a bank office-boy, who
opened a letter and spent the contents (some £7O), and
when arrested cheerfully pleaded guilty. The beak, poor
old ex-Judge Kenny, who ought to have known better,
abused prosecutor for not having registered the letter,
and Supreme Court Judge Conolly (another fossil)
admitted the young thief to probation, repeating part of
Mr. Kenny’s remarks to the witness. Parliament ought
to put a new broom in the Justice Department, aiid
squash the Probationers Act.
HIS POSITION DEFINED.
MRS. DUBBS : “So, you had yer poor husband
cremated, Mrs. Mills?”
MRS. MILLS: “I had. And the motto for the
tombstone was, ' Well done, thou good an'
faithful servant. ’”
Adelaide is in danger of losing still more
of its park lands—this time for an extension of the
city cemetery, which is now about as full as it can
he. Over £25,000 was spent on a new ground 12
miles along the north railway line; but it is
growled now that the place is too far out, th.,'b
people can’t afford to die if they have to be buried
there. But that is easily got over; municipalise
the undertaking business. For the time actually
given'to the job there is no trade that pays so well
as the ghoul’s; and with the concentration of the
work the necessary thing could be done, often
more decently, and always for half the money.
HIS TROUBLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O, Captain Cook, what ails you on your pedestal so tall.
And what brings upon your face of bronze a frown ?
Your clothes are good as ever, man—what troubles you
at all—
You who are the finest figure in the town 1
Through the night and through the day,
While the seasons pass away,
And the generations rush the gap to fill
That comes quickly in the census,
Through the life that now so tense is
And the strife,
Tooth end claw, and fist and knife,
For a crust of bread, and beer,
You stand stately and austere
On your noble monument —
And you have to pay no rent—
Then, what troubles you, O elevated captain on a hill j
There is nothing that the heart could wish by way of
scenery
That you cannot view when folk are in their beds ;
You are placed in a position whence the blindest man
could see
All the ships of all the world come through the Heads.
In the moonlight weird and wan,
In the rosy light of dawn,
You know well you have the gallantest outlook
On the Harbor blue and sparkling,
On the Harbor grey and darkling,
Night and day
You know well, old sea-dog gray,
That you see with pride profound
All the buildings fine around—
The Cathedral dusky-pale,
The Museum, and the gaol
Then what makes you look so worried, O silent weighty
Cook?
Then Captain Cook made answer in a voice subdued and
low,
And the green, green tears of verdigris he shed ;
His speech was like a speech made through a foghorn
stuffed with tow,
And these are something like the words he said
“ There’s the Harbor that I found !
Search the whole wide world around
And you will not find a Bay with it to cope i
It was once as calm and quiet
As a seaman on low diet
After rum—
But who knows the things to come ?
It is now a wet disgrace,
And a squalid market-place.
And as sure as now I stand
On this pedestal so grand,
With my outstretched bronze right hand
Indicating Pride and Hope,
I shall wake from dreams some night,
And find in that same hand—
Which I wish it held a rope—
• With horror and affiright,
A disgusting big advertisement of Brown’s Gorilla
Soap.”
OREEVE ROE.


pw~ la the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS mTT a m -
KLEINERT’S HOOKON
ISTHEONLY Correet Hose Supporter
To Wear with the NEW FORM CORSET.
Sold only at the Best Shops.
SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Absolutely Painless
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit.
Extractions and Stoppings Guaranteed.
'Special Attention Given to Regulatdng Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxfo v d-st. Sydney
°°ts <**
VQ* y
The Lactk ivEjuiuiKs —What they are. How
to use them, and speedily obtain a beautiful
plumpness of face, neck and arms, and a perfect
bust. Write for H. Westall Guest’s new pamph-
let, post free, 229 Bourke-st., Melbourne.*
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
- UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable
Recommended by “ Lancet."
J. McBRATNEY (Wholesale only),
321 Flinders Lane, Melb. 389 George-st., Sydney.
’ “CR ANNETTES
ltsf\ Are: Fabrics
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 24, 1903.
Mr Dear Arini,—
I’ve been on a visit—my first visit—to Hobart. I
mentioned this quite unimportant fact to a young
woman on the deck of the Oonah as we drew into
the wharf, and in a sea-sick undertone wondered
if I should “ see any difference. ” She turned to
me sympathetically, and said, slowly, “I live
here, ana I’ve been seeing Sydney and Melbourne
for the first time, and I don t see much difference.”
She paused, and her fine, bovine eyes rested on
Mt. Wellington’s lapis lazuli head: “Except in
this—you can’t help noticin’ it—the buns in our
confectioners’ winders have four times as many
currants in them as the buns in Sydney and Mel-
bourne.” ‘
That kind of girl must be lovable. Someone
else may discourse on the value of travel to broaden
the mental outlook. This honeymoon land (it is
full of couples newly Wedded, and they walk
about leaning on one another and making human
triangles with the pavement as the base) is afire
With flowers, carpeted riotously with the china
aster, dominated by the giant sunflower and
scented by the mulberry. There is a smell of
crushed mulberries all over the sky-dyed land,
although Ethel Turner says that to her Tasmania
fairly exudes raspberry scent. If you come
early in the summer it is strawberries that per-
fume the land. Hedges are green with hawthorn
“pips,” and fruit of the briar rose. The haw-
thorn crop is so unusually heavy that a severe
winter is anticipated. “One of nature’s pro-
visions,” said the Hobartian, who pointed out
the berry harvest “ for the birds.”
Besides honeymooners, Hobart is still well-
stocked with summer girls and their mothers
from N.S.W. and Vic. You may know them
from the native-born by their sunburnt faces—
noses, cheeks and foreheads one confluent scarlet.
Also may you know them by their louder, sharper
voices, voices with something of the galah-parrot
in them. Hobart women’s voices are softer, more
mezzo, but, great Mount Wellington ! how badly
they have got some of the Cockney pronunciation !
The weather—“the soft, consenting atmos-
phere,” the windless blandness of each day, makes
one think that heaven and earth are holding a
dreamy tryst together. I am told, and I don’t
wonder at it, that lives are longer in Tasmania
than in other Australian States. If you could see
Adye Douglas, now in his 88th year, frisking
down to his office every morning like a boy going
to a cricket-match, youd believe it. Adye has been
married three times —three sisters —and his
voungest child is young enough to wear a Little
Lord Fauntleroy costume.
Very little things minister to pleasure in this
city of dreams, hills, and afternoon-teas. On a
day this week a garden fete was given at the
place of a local Somebody in aid of the homoeo-
pathic hospital, and feminine Hobart was there
selling sweets, playing croquet, or strolling among
the vivid flowers with a Puritan demureness. Old
ladies (they who say there are no old ladies nowa-
days ought to come to Hobart)—such old, old
ladies, beautifully dressed in black —sat round on
rustic seats and talked massage; middle-aged ones
discussed the Melba fiasco—a theme that will last
Tassy for weeks yet. The few husbands present
stood silent and patient. Miss Clarke just
back with her father, Justice Clarke, from
U.S.A., was around. I met her some six or seven
years ago in Melbourne. She then had hair down
to her toes, or thereabouts, and the late Julian
Thomas was guide-booking her. Now she has
Americanitis very badly, for Boston, and especi-
ally the boys of the Stanford Uuiversity, did her
proud.
I was recently asked to a political afternoon-
tea when 23 ladies (and a mere man to steer the
entertainment) assembled in the usual-sized
suburban drawing-room, with the temperature 2
below boiling |>oint, to hear what the referendum
and decision by arbitration were all about. The
young gentleman read his information heavily
from a type-written document, and the ladies
meantime double-banked his gems of knowledge
by teaching one another in an undertone the
mysteries of fish-boning and bird’s-eye stitching.
Tea was wedged in with difficulty—it came in
sideways, so to speak—and everybody agreed that
the proceedings showed woman to have made
great intellectual advances since she got the vote.
One woman was afterwards found looking for the
referendum in the cookery book, but some of the
good seed always falls on barren ground.
Apropos the servant-girl discussion, in England
a number of well-educated women, finding them-
selves alone in a cold world with a few hundred
pounds, which unkind friends advised them to
invest in corner shops where cash is scarce and
credit is long, took counsel among themselves and
founded the Guild of the Dames of the House-
hold. The Guild, taking up pleasant quarters in
London, advertised for pupils to be taught house-
keeping, cooking, parlor and pantry duties on
scientific lines. The idea caught on, and the
Dames and their pupils are in great demand, and
the supply is far from adequate. They have fixed
rates of remuneration below which no dame will
accept service. They will live on the premises
if desired, but prefer to stay in the Guild
House. They have a proper legal agreement
which stipulates the hours and nature of their
duties, the remuneration, and the holidays; and
stipulates that the dames shall be addressed as
Mrs. or Miss, according to circumstances.
In marriage notices done hy country papers,
the bride always “looks charming,” no matter
how she’s “got up” or what her color is. To
look charming is the aim and delight of all brides
at the critical moment of crossing the “ Bridge of
Sighs,” and the country rag daren’t say they
looked any other way. A bit of candor like this
{from a Missouri journal) once in a while would
>e refreshing:
MARRIED. —Miss Sylvia Khades to James Oarnaham,
last Saturday afternoon. The bride is an ordinary local
girl, who doesn’t know any more than a rabbit about
cooking, and never helped her poor mother three days in
her life. She is not a beauty, by any means, and has a
gait like a fat duck. The groom is well-known here as
an up-to-date loafer ; has been living off the old folks all
his life, and don’t amount to anything nohow. They will
have a hard life while they live together, and we hasten
to extend absolutely no congratulations, for we don’t
believe any good can come of such a union.
A Sydneyite writes this :
Three things are certainly on the increase among the
women of Sydney : the drinking of alcoholic liquors in
public places of refreshment, and the smoking of cigar-
ettes and opium. Opium is usually associated with
Chinese, but to-day there are opium parlors (they cannot
be called dens) in Sydney where a pig-tail is never seen,
and where the practice is carried on amid surroundings
altogether beautiful.
A lady from Paniput (India) told me of one opium
parlor, and proposed to take me there. Each member of
the opium club is allowed to introduce a friend, but is
financially responsible for any injury or mischief caused
by that friend.
The cab emptied us out in a narrow lane largely com-
posed of two brick walls with trees hanging over them.
The lady from India produced a latchkey, and with it
opened a door in the wall, and we wandered down a
shaded garden to a rambling house at the bottom, and
the same key opened the front door. An Algerian lamp
swung in the hall, and its rays fell obliquely on a por-
tiere on which a golden dragon sprawled in a field of
poppies—beautiful crimson poppies. “ It’s the only
Chinese thing in the place,” said she, and spoke in a
whisper, as though it were a holy place. She drew back
the portiere and the crimson curtain that hung behind
it. A puff of pungent fume irritated, and then, in a
sense, delighted the nostrils.
Right round the wall ran a dado which was a field of
dreamy crimson poppies. They swayed in no breeze, but
hung there dreamily in the deep hush of the burning
afternoon. Around the wall ran settees—an endless chain
of sofas, whereon men and women, mostly the latter, lay
head to head and feet to feet. In the centre of the room
were ferns and palms, and a fountain sprayed and dripped
—dripped with a monotonous rhythm. On the edge of
the marble basin a bronze bird stood meditatively on one
leg. Beneath, gold fish swam round, and a live frog or
two hopped and splashed in a languorous manner
s ’ -gesting that the fumes of the drug had affected them
also.
they lay, men and women—“ladies and gentle-
men ” rather, for there was not a skirt in the room that
cost less than £6—head to head, feet to feet, with the
tiny lamp on which the opium is cooked between them ;
and while dreamy music floated through the slumbrous
atmosphere they cooked the beautiful golden opium.
Head to head and feet to feet. Their faces dreamy,
languid, mask-like. Over them floated a blue-grey cloud,
and it drifted and swayed and veiled the smokers for a
second, and when they appeared and re-appeared they
were more like masks than human faces—dim ghosts
around whom clung no horror and no terror.
The lady from Paniput smoked a pipe and told me
afterwards of the feeling. “The body became buoyant,
the senses keen and alert to extract the least grain of
pleasure and beauty from sight and sound ; the drifting
vapor came closer and shut out the gross material world,
and one drifted along the strains of music to Eden, but
never quite got to Eden. You breathe the perfume of the
blossoms just inside the gate ; you hear fragments of the
songs they sing ; you see flashes of the glory—and then
the cloud lifts, and the bronze bird standing meditatively
on one leg by the marble basin takes form, and—
’Tis the earth once more, and a terrible headache.”
Three-fourths of the occupants of that drowsy parlor
were women. They lay there smoking serenely. Some
few were really unconsious—they were novices. Most sat
and lounged about, with their bodices unfastened at the
neck. The experienced woman-smoker, I learned, leaves
her corsets at home or in the ladies’ dressing room, and
enters the parlor closely clad. Tight-fitting garments
spoil the real comfort of the smoke. All talk is carried
on in whispers, or in a voice keyed so low as to be
inaudible a yard away. There is nothing ribald, no sign
or sound of abandonment, and if there is a casual
exhibition of an ankle as some woman twists into a more
comfortable position, no opium smoker is interested.
There are subtler delights in the golden opium.
Most of the women patrons are the idle well-to-do—
women whose husbands occupy good positions in the
city and who live in the fashionable boarding-houses that
are now so thick around Potts and Darling Points. They
have no children, no household duties, no hobby, and
time drags wearily. And they turn to opium-smoking
and its dearly-won delights.
Papa Lyne at Sydney Masonic Hall the other
night had a list of 200 articles, “ which are as cheap
and in many cases cheaper than when the tariff
went on.” That speech is causing trouble in the
boarding houses. Some hash ladies have been
declining to give potatoes with the cold meat
lunch; the price absolutely forbade it. Now the
hungry boarders confront them with Lyne’s
figures, and the landlady subsides sullenly, and
remarks that she “ hopes as how the prices won’t
go up agen when Mr. Reid comes back.”
Talking of Mr. Reid, a lovely caricature of that
politician is given by George Willoughby, as
“The Wrong Mr. Wright,” at Sydney Palace.
He has the same sandy hair, cleared off in patches
in the same inartistic fashion, and the portly front
is similar, but not quite so pronounced ; if Mr.
Willoughby wore a monocle the picture would be
complete.
Bert Toy, the Queensland violinist who played
at Sydney Centenary Hall, Saturday night, with
Mr. Henry Weir and Miss Maud Dalrymple, is
boyish-looking with a pleasant smile. He’s pure
merino, born in Vic., and reared in Bananaland.
He has a splendid opportunity to be original; if
he had his haif clipped short he would not only
improve his appearance but attract attention as
the first of a new Australian breed of short-haired
violinists.
The man who recently victimised school marms
in Sydney and Melbourne is nOw operating in,
Auckland, M.L. In that province they grow
ladies of stout minds and generous proportions:
and the man may meet with well-deserved trouble
on his predatory career.
Banjo Patterson’s engagement to Miss Alioe
Walker is announced in the Evening News,
which ought to know. The marriage takes place
shortly. Miss Walker is a daughter of the late
Mr. W. H. Walker, of Tenterfteld Station, and-a
cousin to Miss Eadith Walker of dollar fame.
Mr. H. H. Share, who was private secretary to
Sir Lewis Beaumont, returns after a brief visit to
Europe to resume the same position on the staff of
Sir. H. Rawson. Mr, Share took a leaf out of St.
Paul’s book, and was “ all things to all men and
women.” Hence his popularity.
The news has been privately received here that
Mr- J. C. Williamson has offered Miss Ada
Crossley an engagement somewhere about August.
Who talks of the effete British aristocracy ? The
Marquis of Donegal the other day married his
third wife (a Canadian girl) at the age of 80 !
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Said that at the Delhi Durbar the Europeans
looked dull and dowdy beside the Orientals. Yet
the Westerners had put their best feet forward.
Viceroy Curzon’s wife, when she first went to
India, took with her a wardrobe worth from
£lO,OOO to £12,000, exclusive of jewellery. She
had a hundred gowns, one valued at £2OO, and a
pearl chain which cost £2500. A woman with
dress traditions of such splendor to live up to
would launch out even more than usual on the
occasion of a Durbar ; but it was the glittering
elephants that seemed to dwarf and fade their
riders into insignificance. When it comes to a
contest of gems and colors, there’s room for so
much more gem on an elephant than a woman.
I often wonder why bookmakers and such don’t
marry elephants.
“A huge crowd took part in the Castles’ ‘fare-
well.’ Rather an angry crowd to start with be-
cause the seats were mismanaged. The balcony
ushers, what there were of them, were mere
children, physically unable to prevent in-
truders from ‘jumping’ reserved seats. It
was quite alarming to hear threats of
eviction, &c., bandied to and fro between
trespassers and lawful owners. One ancient
dame literally keened. She had set her heart
on one of the promised Castles ‘souvenirs,’ and
got in the end neither souvenir, progamme nor her
reserved seat. An enormously fat woman, with
warm-colored hair and a squint, grew so desperate
with standing that she sat right down on top of a
nice young priest, and then apologised and said
that she had not seen that anyone was there. He
squeezed a niche for her between himself and a
jolly old ‘father,’ who chuckled over his blushing
junior’s discomfiture, while everyone within sight
of the trio caught the giggling infection, till in
that part of the hall the seat tragedy resolved
itself into a farce.
“That gifted singer who, as a schoolgirl,
habitually tormented her teachers and teased her
parents, has mounted so high on the ladder of
success, that present-day rompers, in view of the
sometime hoyden’s dazzling achievements (social
no less than professional) are apt to turn a deaf
ear to warnings against ‘loud, unladylike con-
duct.’ The Personage was brought up by a staid
Scotch father on the same lines as her sisters who,
in their salad-days, were fair, slight damsels, given
to sitting up straight and behaving so nicely that
Dad constantly held them up as models to their
dark, rollicking senior. Not that the anxious
parent was less fond of his first-born, but, for her
own sake, he wanted ‘Madcap’ to sober down.
In those days, girl visitors at the house were kept
on pins and needles by their frisky chum’s non-
sense. Dad would scarcely have turned away
after delivering a lengthy, fatherly leoture to the
culprit before Missie s tongue would shoot out
derisively, ‘ I’m looking to see if my tongue
is as long as Dad’s,’ the owner would ex-
plain seriously, squinting horribly in her attempts
to scan the protruded member. At that time she
frequently made one of the family party, which,
headed by her father, weekly attended Sunday
service and choir practice at Scots’ Kirk. The
pilgrims travelled by bus, and the ball was gener-
ally set rolling by Mam’zelle’s naughtiness in
perching beside the driver. After arguments pa
would give in, and, surrounded by the more rest-
ful members of the little flock, would go inside
the vehicle and soon be peacefully pondering
double chants, &c. Then a beady-black eye,
twinkling with mischief, would reconnoitre the
placid scene through the ’busman’s peep-hole, and
next thing an ear-splitting whistle would rouse
the dreamer from his reverie of psalmody to re-
ality, and he would catch his daughter blowing
through her fingers into the eye-chink, just above
his head.
“ A Hobart person forwards this further report
of Melba’s brief and disastrous career in Launces-
ton :
The meteor-like flight of the Diva was too much for
Launceston, and the poor disconsolate mutton-birds are
now hiding their diminished heads under their several
wings, woe being writ large all over them. Nellie was
received at Launceston by a prominent “ interrer of our
dead selves,” and was conducted to an hotel, where a
diminutive slavey after asking “ Who BE you, mum?"
showed her to a room. Nellie arose again after a few
crushed moments and mildly requested—“ Lunch.” A
very magnificent personage announced—“ Lunch will be
served at the usual hour, madam,” and then and there
Nellie, silently ejaculating “ This is no place for Austra-
lia’s noblest daughter,” picked up her skirts and fled.
Mr. Thompson, who arranged the trip, was at first blamed
for not depositing the thousand guineas, but the facts
were that the Diva had a wretched trip over, a bad
throat when she landed, a strong disinclination to be
serenaded by the band when she wanted to sleep, and in
general her “will not” came out in much stronger force
than her “ will.”
On Friday morning the streets of Hobart were thronged
with Kodak fiends and fiendesses who assembled in their
might to snapshot our Toby, who arrived at 10 a.m. per
Omrah, and the only Melba, who left in the Moeraki at 12
noon, for Maorlland. Tobias, who grows thin, addressed
a meeting same night in the Town Hall and struggled
with the “ paramount issue of his side ’’ which, as Dooley
savs, “ is th’ wan th’ other side don’t like to hear
rointioned," and was listened to attentively. But why ! 0
why 1 will he leave his safe platform of stately calm to try
and be jocular 1 Why try to be a monkey climbing up the
stick that is already occupied by Reid ?
“It seems rather significant that Tassy’s small
eye-glassed Gov. Havelock beat a retreat to the
Lakes prior to Premier Barton’s call on the little
State. V.R. civilities were paid in proxy by the
private secretary. Lady Havelock, however, with
her liege lord, went to some trouble to show Melba
that their experience of her Cup gaiety was not
forgotten. Failing all else, they snatched at the
only en route chance afforded, and treated the
cross diva to tea at Parattah in the leading hotel
of that port of call.
“The reigning Queens at a swagger Melb.
hostelry are the two chorus chums who married
from opera bouffe ranks into the squattocraoy last
year. By this time, they have learnt their social
Cake-Walk fairly well. Saw them sail into the
punkahed dining-hall, last week, a delightful pair
of frockers, and the limp and listless ladies ‘of
older creation ’ looked long in envy at the demure
dignity of the newly exalted. A woman is a
wonderfully assimilative and imitative creature.
“ It wasn’t in reason that a she-lion would long
be content with the company of an exclusive little
dove. The climax came a while back when one of
the Better-Not brotherhood threw out a hint that
the dove had better coo in congenial company.
Parental authority seconded the motion, and
called for a division. Carried.
“Crowds, indifferently dressed, poured out to
the wind-up of the V.A.T.C. Autumn meeting.
Saturday was one of those boisterous ‘political
weather ’ days, when a variety of changes made
havoc with gowns. A sable-coated woman looked
suitable for one minute, a white muslinite the
next. Mrs. Leslie Macdonald showed resource-
fulness. When the spring sun and south breeze
minuetted on the lawn, she strode forth in a royal
blue canvas garb, roomy but decorative. When
the north-east wind blew, and grey clouds subdued
the emerald-tinted sward, she took a turn in one
of the new three-deck autumn coats. A returned
tourist, Mrs. Toorak Payne, and Mrs. C. Raleigh
tried conclusions in very fine black toilettes —the
latter sporting sky-blue trimmings with success.
“The most daring turn-out was owned by the
wife of a Collins-st. dentist. She struck a bold
note with a black coat covered from collar to
knee-hem with a costly and uncreasing layer of
real lace. This garment hugged the contours of
the figure closely, recalling Zaza s glove-fitting
garb. Mrs. Fred. M'Evoy, of C.O. chorus fame,
wore an aesthetic turn-out of pale blue voile, and
black picture hat.
“There was a sudden break-out of the matri-
monial fever last week, marking the annual
Lenten prelude. In all the R.C. and C. of E.
quarters the shepherds were briskly coupling.
Several of the newly-wedded are booked for
S’Africa. One of the order describes Johannesburg
as a new Paris. He tells his bride so, to put all fear
of the strange land out of her heart. She believes
him and takes a wardrobe equal to the hope.
“ The Waxellency’s family contemplates atrip
’Ome. There is in the air a scheme to get the
Yallanges settled in their villa under the English
oaks, and to have the clans foregather there at
intervals of globe-gadding. But all depends upon
Miss Ruby s plans. She is just now on her way
from the Durbar, where her coon songs are said to
have charmed all ears.
“The story comes from Ballarat of a spinster
in the 40’s having plighted her troth to a male of
28. She pleads for him to her relatives that he
has ‘ such old-fashioned ways ! *
“ After ‘Zaza,’ last Saturday night, I noticed a
racy set of fashionables consume their magnums
of fizz at a Collins-street cafe, and conclude supper
by a round of cognac for the smart young dames,
and absinthe for the males.
“ All the Western Woolites are rallying for the
Flemington race meeting on the 28th and the
Polo programme of the following week. Polo is
a signal for petticoat and hose purchase. You
see, there is a continuous getting in and out of
lofty carts and other smart vehicles during the
progress of the play, and stepping over grass-
grown fields. Skirts are consequently hoisted
high and hose becomes of importance.
“From a golfing district comes the story of a
handmaid getting notice because her coquetry
interfered with dinner-parties, and had led to one
guest in particular making sheep’s eyes at her over
the mutton-broth. The mistress of the house didn’t
tell her maid what was the real trouble, but a
reduction in wages was suggested. The young
person was generous. ‘I’m sorry things are so
bad, but I like the place ; I’ll stay even at eight
bob!’ Then the mistress, completely flouted,
went and held counsel with her spouse. He was
brutal. ‘ Tell her to go straight. Say she isn’t
giving satisfaction! ’ The mistress faced the
situation again. Then the young person snorted:
‘ If you think I don’t know what’s up, you’re a
fool. It’s rank jealousy ; and I, pooh, I wouldn’t
give a straw for your red-nosed old men. You
can have the lot. I’ll go and get into better com-
pany.’
“ Talking of good-looking housemaids recalls
the fact that Melbourne has a humorous registry-
office agent, who boasts of gauging to a nicety the
home-conditions of applicants. The lady who
requires ‘ a strong woman for the kitchen, a stout,
reliable wench not afraid of work, ’ has, she guesses,
a Lothario for spouse, and means to keep him in
order if she can. It is a timid, gentle wife who
asks for a nice, clean, smart, pretty girl, as ‘ her
husband likes that kind.’
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


STRONG YOUNG MEN.
Young man are you satisfied with your health ? Your manly powers ? Your physical strength ?
No, you are not ! You have the dull eyes, parched cheeks, and weary backaches that tell of overwork,
late hours, or worse.
No, you are not the straight, strong, spirited, strenuous, stiff-backed man you ought to be. Your
nerves are shaky. Your energy has gone. The summer finds you languid—leaves you limp.
You need a Tonic a blood Tonic —a nerve Tonic—a spinal Tonic. You need Dr. Williams’ Pink
ppi s and you need them now. They’ve made strong men of others who were weak. Here is positive proof:
“ Business worries and anxiety made great inroads on my strength six months ago,” says Mr. J. Christen, 9 Bligh
Street Sydney. “ Attacks of nervousness wrecked my whole enjoyment in life. I felt tired after the least exertion, and
I was always listless and depressed. I couldn’t sleep, and quickly grew weaker and weaker, for if I slept a couple of hours
one ni< r ht i would be awake altogether next night. Three months ago I was recommended to try Dr. Willinms’ Pink
Pills I bought a supply from Messrs. Pattinson and Co., and felt better after the first half-a-box. Four boxes completely
restored me to good health. By building up my blood they gave me new health, vigor, strength and manly power. My
system is now thoroughly strengthened, my nerves are braced up and I both eat and sleep well.”
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. 2s. 9d. per box; six boxes, 15s. 3d.
Medical Advice given absolutely free. Write to-day, giving us full particulars.
I
I
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
J. H. Carruthers, leader of N.S.W. State
Opposition, is 45 years of age; graduated at 18 and
was M.A. at 22.
Reid indignantly protested against an
Adelaide interjector who called him “ Yes-No
Reid.” He declares that what he said was
“No-Yes.”
,T^ e 0 r ~ g i e Reid ; Wedne «day of this week
(Feb. 2o) completed his 58th year, and on the
previous day Judge Andrew Inglis Clark (Tas )
was 55. '
S. M. Herald describes the successor of
the Rev. Unfinancial Dunstan in Sydney Pitt-st.
Congregational Church as a man of “sterling-”
eloquence. “Sterling” is good in the circum-
stances.
Some birthdays in the first week of March
"f 6 i, **• F ysh, of the long white beard, 68 on
the Ist; Samuel Davenport, who was a member of
f mV Leg i Go^ cll -°nt h e sth ; and John Douglas,
of Thursday Island, 75 on the 6th.
Peter Woods, said to have driven the first
steam locomotive which ran in N.S.W. (Svdnev to
Parramatta, 1855), died recently in Victoria. For
many years it was understood that the late Wm.
Sixsmith was the first driver, but his claim seems
to have fallen through.
Among bygone Victorian orators who
wrote their speeches and committed them to
memory, Chas. Gavan Duffy was the only one who
was ever letter-perfect in his part. His delivery
was that of a half-choked squeak, but as he was a
literary artist, he always scored when his addresses
appeared in print.
During the 46 years that he was a Bible
Christian minister James Rowe, who died in Ade-
laide lately, kept accounts which showed that he
had averaged barely £2 a week ! Mr. Rowe, a
knotty old Cornishman, was, with Chief-Justice
Way’s father, the pioneer of his sect in S.A., and
personally “established the cause” in Victoria.
Henry Lawson reckons his fall off the
cliffs at Manly was of material benefit to his
business prospects (reminiscent of the Paris
publisher who told an author “to try a little ad-
vertisement, ” and suggested that he might be run
over by a ’bus !) Since his fall, several other Aus-
tralian poets of renown have gone to live at
Manlv. So far there have been no further
casualties.
A FRIEND INDEED.-
‘Yer orter be proud ter meet this bloke; he made
me look like this in wo secs. He’s ’bout the
best pal I got.”
A Bruce Auction is proposed in aid of
N.S.W. drought victims. Why not a Bruce
Smith auction ? Think of the joy of purchasing
the lovely Smith and taking him home for daily
adoration ! Or why not raffle O’Sullivan ?—lO,OOO
members at an 1.0. U. each. Or Dan O’Connor !
Fancy winning Dan, and having Beauty at the
breakfast-table, Eloquence on the wood-heap, and
an Electric Belt on the cheap !
Charles Nicholson, now in his 95th year,
is still a conspicuous figure in London. Having
taken his M.D. at Edinburgh, he emigrated
to Australia in ’34, and for 30 years was
a leading Sydney citizen and Parliamentarian.
He alone survives of the first Australian Parlia-
ment that met in Sydney in 1843. After serving
for some years as the first Chancellor of the
Sydney University, he returned to the Cold
Country in 1862.
Foxton (M.L.) claims to have the two
biggest children in Australasia in Ruby and Wil-
fred Westwood. Ruby is aged 9, weighs 16st.
121 b., is 4ft. 9in. height, with a chest measure-
ment of 52in. The boy is 4 years old, stands 3ft.
weighs lOst. 41b., and is 41in. round the
chest. The father, who is a storekeeper and flax-
miller, turns the scale at 12st., while the mother
weighs only 6st. 121 b. There are five other
children in the family, but none of them is re-
markable for size.
A Sydney broker back from Africa
“speaks of the strange passing of Baden Powell.
There is great prejudice against B.P. among
South Africans, who look upon him as a posturer.”
But the evidence against the military Barnum and
his circus “siege” was already convincing. The
other night The Bulletin dreamt it wandered
down York-st. and heard a voice raised in bitter
lamentation. The voice said : “ Give us back our
sword ! give us back our charger ! give back the
babies’ pennies ! ” Then there was a loud yell of
“ Bogus ! ” and the moon winked distinctly as The
Bulletin wandered on.
Byron Moore, a Victorian of 50 years
standing, has now turned his 70th birthday, it
seems. A wonderful veteran is the secretary of
the V.R.C. Placed in the forefront of the racing
world, he takes no interest in horses except as
manager of the ground where they provide the
entertainment. Couldn’t compile a good handi-
cap to save his life, but can compose an anthem,
if required. SHfas written a capital little book of
fairy tales, and conducted oratorio performances.
Versatile fellows of the Byron Moore stamp never
grow old, like their heavy, pompous contem-
poraries among the “representative* class.
There's nothing heavy about the septuagenarian
see. of the V.R.C. He wears light-grey clothes,
and a hat to match, and dispenses with the
burden of a stummick.
Old Dean Marryat, of Adelaide (who is a
nephew of Captain Marryat, the sea novelist, and
a brother-in-law of Governor Fox Young, who
accompanied Capt. Cadell in his first trip by
steamer up the River Murray), was in 1853 chap-
hinofth6 penal establishments at Darlinghurst
and Cockatoo Island, Sydney. He will never
speak of his experiences there, however. He has
now been in Adelaide for just half-a-century, and
he has been Dean for 16 years. He is very rotund
and very bald, and has a very cracked voice.
F. B Suttor, Vice-President of N.S.W.
Deg. Council, has held Ministerial office longer
than any other local M.P. He began with Parkes
m 1877, a.nd has been included in half-a-dozen
Cabinets since. He is 63 years of age. The only
sensational event in his political life was when
he formally discarded Freetrade and adopted
Protection. The vengeance of Parkes, who
preached Freetrade and ran a fine, large Protec-
tionist tariff himself, pursued him to Bathurst on
that occasion, and fairly flattened him out.
. John O’Shanassy was largely instrumental
11 1 bringing the late Chas. Gavan Duffy to Victoria
6 rt , 6 a^er had gone bung as a Home Ruler in
the Cold Country, and in organising the fund with
which an estate at Hawthorn was purchased for
Duffy served in two Ministries with
O Shanassy, but a fatal quarrel was only a question
of time as Gavan would never play second fiddle
to anyone. After the fatal rupture, big John said
of his former lieutenant: “He never had a friend
he did not desert, nor a cause he did not betray.”
No previous Vic. Premier maintained such
solemn state when receiving deputations as does
Irvine. He surrounds himself with other Minis-
ters and departmental magnates, and at one
recent interview, on the subject of a small country
railway, _ was supported by Ministers Bent,
McKenzie, Taverner, the Secretary of the Lands
Dept., the Surveyor-General, Bent’s secretary,
and a dozen other functionaries. It only needed
a couple of coolies waving fans above his haughty
brow to make the ceremony as imposing as the
Delhi Durbar.
Oppositionists in Vic. Assembly complain
that Premier Irvine, when making important
statements to the House, invariably turns his
back on them, and addresses himself solely to
Sammy Lancaster and the Kyabram crowd at his
back. It is also impossible for the gallery
reporters to hear half what Irvine says.
Parliamentary courtesy demands that a speaker
should face the chair. Irvine affords Speaker
Gillies an excellent view of the place where he is
supposed to keep his well-advertised “backbone.”
Co-incident with the temporary
absence of lordly little “Johnny ” Clay-
ton from Melbourne Town Clerk’s office
there has disappeared from Council
circles the air of “culchaw” in which
his soul was wont to wallow. Under
his direction verandah and telegraph-
posts were adorned with calico-signs
stating that “Pedestrians are re-
quested not to expectorate on the
footpath.” When “Johnny” went a-
jaunting, giving place to democratic
Alex. Stewart, these were torn down
and enamelled signs bearing the legend,
“Do not spit,” &c., substituted. The
Post-office people, however, went one
better than “Johnny.” In the E.T.O.
lobby, where the shipping news is
posted, may be read the assurance:
“Gentlemen WILL NOT expectorate
on the floor.” And the shellback comes
there. to see if the brigantine Eliza
Ann is sighted, and spits cheerfully on
the floor, and wonders what on earth
“ expectorate ” means.
In Southern Maoriland, where the
M‘Nab clan flourisheth mightily, a free-
lance named Raymond dared to poach on
the M‘Nab electorate. In Mataura town-
ship Raymond had just finished his election speech,
and at the hall door met a canny Scotchbyterian,
hight Wattie Davidson. They shook and spoke.
After a while, conversation becoming kinna
general, Davidson mentioned that he was beginning
to ha’e his doots about Robert M‘Nab. (Getting ex-
cited) : “In fac’, I dinna think he is half as truth-
ful a mon as he was three years syne.” Raymond
(scenting a vote): “Then support me.” David-
son : “ Na, na ! Ah always kent you were a leear
—ah’m only dootin’ Robert M‘Nab !”
Shiels, Victoria’s dismal financier, is striv-
ing hard for mastery in the Irvine Cabinet.
Irvine is anything but the stern, strong man that
his press hacks make him out to be. When Shiels
was taken into the Ministry, it was reported
about the lobbies by members that Irvine in-
tended to keep the doleful one in his proper place.
He was not to be the “ equal-in-all-things ” Trea-
surer he was in the M‘Lean Ministry. That
has proved to be all flam. Shiels is as much boss
in the Cabinet as Irvine himself. He has shown
this more than once in the House. For example,
he refused to be dictated to in regard to the
matter and manner of his budget statement. And
again, he deliberately arose and stated that if
he had been in charge of a certain measure instead
of the Premier he would not have permitted an
amendment which the Premier allowed.
Melb. barrister Box, whose
name is being mentioned among
possibilities for succession to
Judge Hartley Williams, made
his first rise at the bar in a novel
fashion. As a briefless junior,
he was drifting round the courts
one day during the initial pro-
ceedings in a very big and costly
suit, in which every barrister of
any standing in Vic. 30 years ago
had been engaged. A solicitor’s
clerk came up and asked whether
Box had a brief, which so tickled
that inexperienced sprig that
he laughed outright. “If you
haven’t,” remarked the clerk,
“you’d better take this one.
You're about the only man I can
find who isn’t in the case
already.” Box took a place
among the counsel, and this, his
first case, brought him in £l2OO
ere it finished.
Maoriland Police Commis-
sioner Tunbridge, who is retiring
from the position on the alleged
ground of ill-health, started as a
foot constable in the London
Police, and 26 years after was
occupying the position of chief
inspector in the Criminal Investi-
gation Dept. Then he came to
Maoriland and re-organised a
force that had sunk rather low
in public estimation. He was the
practical author of the Police
Provident Fund, out of which
decayed and injured “bobbies”
obtain pensions which make it un-
necessary for the Maoriland man
in blue to go through the pockets of affluent
drunks to provide for his old age. The real reason
for the Commissioner’s resignation is said to be
the action of a desperately officious Minister of the
buzzing blue-bottle variety in overriding his
decisions re a slight unpleasantness which occurred
in connection with the force in Nelson.
“ Melb.” : A statue to Sargood ! Oh, by
all means. Set it over against that to Baronet
Clarke, so that there won’t be room for a Higin-
botham, or a Flinders, or a Fawkner, or a Batman
statue. These be your gods, O Israel! Then here
is nearly £9OO cash planked down for the Burns
statue/ Of course it would! be justifiable to put up
a Burns statue in Timbuctoo, as tribute to a
democrat. Yet the Austral-Scotch don’t read
Burns, and simply can’t. A few of them read
Scott. His statue would be more sensible, and
yet not sensible enough.
“ N.” : O’Shanassy said “Duffy is the
greatest scoundrel unhung. Inter alia, he told
this to a clergyman of my acquaintance. Borrowed
from Johnson’s saying to Bozzy, “Oh no, sir,
O’Corighley is not the greatest scoundrel unhung !
To be sure he is a lawyer, but he might have been a
parson, and he is an Irishman, but he might have
been a Scotchman.” Similarly did Fellows steal
from Heine a saying which he applied, in the
Victorian Legislative Council, to Money Miller :
“ His counting house is his church, his ledger his
Bible, and his money his god.
“ 8.A.L.” reminisces :
Par. re John Ross (Bulletin 14/2/’O3) calls to mind
Arthur Ash win, now on the East Murchison (W.A.), one
of the party who first overlanded stock from 8. A. to the
Territory. For this feat the S.A. Govt, of the day offered
a monetary reward, but meanly cancelled it whilst the
stock referred to were on the road. Ashwin afterwards
tried for gold in the Mac Donnell ranges, and with a mate
prospected Mt. Browne (Barrier) receiving the Govt, re-
ward for same. In late years he has done a lot of
pioneering in W.A., being one of a little party who
opened the Cue-Southern Cross, Kurnalpi-Mt. Margaret,
and Lawlers-Lake Darlot roads. Ashwin, contrary to the
general rule, bids fair to spend his declining years in
comfort.
In 1898 the election expenses of the
remarkable Geo. Fisher, M.H.R. (M.L.) amounted
to about three half crowns. At the last election
they were £9. He only held one meeting in a
hall. On that occasion the Choral Hall was
packed and crowds stood outside hoping to hear
“ Our George.” When he made his appearance
upon the stage he struck a dramatic attitude and
said, “ The heart ! the heart! the heart! ” all the
time placing his hand where that organ was
supposed to be. That was his speech and as it
brought forth vociferous cheering, he followed it
up by singing a bar of “ Sons of the Sea.” Then
he retired not quite gracefully—and was elected.
Lord Roberts’ alleged refusal to pay the
fees of his new title is really a good example to
democracies. When Premier Parkes took the
“G.”of his trumpery order he had to apply to
friends for money to pay the fees. Dibbs, when
he took his “K.” was very hard-up. Titles with
the charges attached to them are cunningly-
devised royal weapons. They bind flunkeys to
the court at the expense of other flunkeys. When
up-standing men refuse to pay the fees kings will
recognise that- the game is up. Every now and
again the Pope makes a “ Monsignor ” in Austra-
lia. The elderly bhoy has to plank his £25 or so
to get the stamped document in his hands.
SHEVENTY PER CENT.
YOUNG IKE: “Fader, vas dey a
vord called brinciple?”
FADER : “ Der vas two of them; von
vord you must take great interest
in, and the other you need nod
bother about.”
“ R.C.” : Be late Bulletin par about the
new “St. Oliver.” Dr. Plunkett was an ancestor
of the earl of Fingall who has been so lucky in
Westralian mines, and of Father Plunkett, the
Redemptorist, who died at Sydney a year or two
ago. He was Archbishop of Armagh and in those
days (end of 17th century) when a man who
brought in a priest’s head would be paid for it, he
went about in secular clothes and was known as
“Mr. Cox.” He was hanged at Tyburn on a
bogus charge of treason. A few years ago I saw
his head in a convent by the banks of the Boyne.
Colonel Lamb, who lost an eye in the
Spion Kop fiasco, closed his military career the
other week by shooting himself whilst crossing
from New York to Liverpool, aboard a Cunard
liner. The Colonel’s final arrangements were
polite and practical. He wrote a letter to the
captain :
Sir—l am extremely sorry for what I am about to do,
and for the mess I have made in the cabin. I would have
dropped over the side instead,only I was afraid you might
pick me up before I drowned.—Yours, Thomas Lamb.
P.S.: There is money in my bag to pay for the damage
done to the cabin.
A recent print of the principal monuments
in Melbourne Cemetery recalls that there is no
suitable memorial over the grave of J. B. Thurston,
the first Colonial Secretary and third Governor of
Fiji, who was buried there eight or nine years
ago, while holding office as Governor. Thurston
was the ablest and most hard-working official that
Fiji has had, and the island colonists ought not to
allow his remains to rest in an unremembered
grave. The only other British Governor interred
in Melb. Cemetery is Chas. Hotham (Vic.,
1854-5). V
“ Onlooker ” from Maoriland :
What you say (Jan. 2) about Russell as leader of the
M.L. Opposition is perfectly true, but you err in sup-
posing that the party doesn’t know as much about it as you
do. Three years ago they conferred and decided to have
no leader. But Russell occupied the seat, and, aided and
abetted by Seddon and his crowd, quietly re-established
himself as leader, never objecting when they called him
leader ; allowing himself to be interviewed in that capa-
city, and on ail ceremonial occasions rising after the
Premier just exactly as of yore. Next session he was
compelled to announce in the House that he was no
longer leader, but, notwithstanding all that, the position
remained practically unchanged. Hints have been un-
availing. Hutcheson’s platform entreaty that he would
efface himself availed not; still, like the old man of the
sea, he clings round the neck of the doomed party. For,
let the party say what it likes in Parliament, Seddon still
maintains to the country that Russell is leader. The
only thing that will break down the legend is the appear-
ance of some other man in the leader’s seat. The
job is not a nice one, but Russell’s refusal to efface him-
self, his rejection of a means of escape, his unwillingness
to “place himself in the hands of his friends,” have gone
far to loosen those ties of personal friendship which made
the position so difficult before, for now the patience of
old members is about exhausted, while the new men are, of
course, free agents. Russell is far and away the best man
for Speaker, possessing presence, voice, experience, and
a soldier’s notion of discipline. Not so sure that Seddon
would not appoint him, for in big appointments that
bulk largely in the public eye he usually does the right
thing—witness Stout, Tunbridge, Edwards, Warburton—
and then proceeds to run riot among the small ones. But,
whether Russell sits in the chair or not, there are tl ose
who say that he will not sit in the seat reserved for the
Leader of the Opposition. If, as many suppose, his
reason for declining the Speaker’s chair is laziness and a
fondness for bed—or perhaps I ought to be fair to him and
say that he is 65 —this reason even more disqualifies him
for leadership against the untirable Seddon.


TELLS
THREE STAR
BRANDY
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
To CoxtribCtors. —ln the ease of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
AN EXPLODED HORSE-MYTH
South Queensland papers have been re-
joicing for months over the break-up of the
drought in Western Queensland. Inland, how-
ever, large areas are devoid of grass; stations are
shifting their stock to relief country; bush towns-
ships are still existing on goat and pig-weed, and
a clear .unbroken February sky indicates only too
clearly a time ahead full of menace to the
grazier.
Sundry stations in N.W. Queensland,
elated at the present price of beef, are refusing to
sell meat to neighboring townships. Result:
Nobody goes without meat all the same, and meat,
though contraband, is much cheaper than hereto-
fore. Mr. Manager Grindem rides out one even-
ing and finds a local artist skinning a bullock in a
remote corner of a paddock. Artist takes up a
rifle—“ Look ’ere, Mr. Grindem, did anyone see
you cornin’?” Grindem shortly: “No!” Artist
(pointing his gun): “Well, then, clear out, or,
by Heavens, nobody ’ll ever see you goinV’
• * * *
The “reddest” day ever experienced in
Hay, passed into obscuration on Saturday (14th
Feb.). There was a little dust blowing about all
day, but at 4 p.m. there came up from the West a
solid block of red soil which slowly rolled over the
town and put it into total darkness. Lamps had
to be lighted, and even then one barber shut up
shop altogether because he could not see his cus-
tomer in the chair, and because the sand dried up
the lather as fast as it was put on the face. A
pathetic feature about the storm was the restless-
ness of the horses in their stalls. They whinnied
and squealed most piteously all the time the place
was in darkness. Hay is always next door to
Sheol, but that day the partition was taken down,
and the two places were one, and the demons
called in affably to converse. It was some hours
before the sluggish cubic mile of suspended hot
red smellful earth crawled on to curse some place
further east, but it felt like centuries. And no
one could drink with any satisfaction to quench
his misery, for the beer was hot, and it gritted
between your tee'.h, and the sand banked up in it
as you drank it.
» • * *
“ A.F.L.” . Travelling through the mallee
one is struck by the new-chum methods of con-
serving water for stock and domestic use. The
Lands Department, when cutting up new country,
should survey and mark out the most suitable
spots for tanks, and should insist on a properly-
made tank, with connecting drains, and silt tank,
as a clause in each lease. Such a thing, if insisted
upon, should save the Government thousands of
pounds in water-trains. The average Mallee
farmer cannot think for himself, his thinking
machinery being rusted through long disuse, and
the Government which wants revenue from the
dry parts must show the settler how best to stay
on the land.
« • < «
“ H.S.R.” : Re the pea-rifle. Half-holidays
in country towns are often ill-spent by some Goths,
who ride out on bikes and shoot anything that they
get a chance at. I heard one storekeeper boast that
he had shot 22 magpies on a just-previous holiday.
Have even known “ the happy family ” and “ the
twelve apostles” ruthlessly shot down by these
savages. The Federal Govt, ought to put a tax
of about Bs. per 100 on cartridges.
Near Cairns, a short time ago,
a man was struck by a falling tree.
The tree was filled with bees’ nests
and when the poor fellow was found
be was covered with bees and green
ants. He lingered some 24 hours
and then died.
“ Scutum ” : The birds mentioned by
“E.C.” (B. 14/2’/03) are not protected at present,
except perhaps finches. Galalis, parrakeets, and
all kinds of parrots, except the kins: parrot, may
be trapped from Ist January to 31st December
inclusive; magpies and butcher-birds from Ist
February to 31st July. The only Australian birds
absolutely protected are the lyre-bird, black
cockatoo, bell-bird, emu, jackass, kingfisher,
regent-bird, rifle-bird, nankin crane, native com-
panion, fish-hawk and sea-gulls of every descrip-
tion.
Out at Pooncarie the other day Poon-
carie is a sandhill near the Lower Darling water-
course, with a pub. and a
blacksmith’s shop on it
(on reconsideration, writtr
isn’t sure of the black-
smith’s shop, but lie’ll
chance swearing to the
pub.) Anyhow, out there
a man struck a legal
snag, of whose existence
a lot of people aren’t
aware. He was charged
with “ wandering with
N. S. W. aborigines,”
found guilty, and sen-
tenced to six months.
No doubt he deserved
it. Any white person
who “ wanders ” this
weather with all that is
left-of the Lower Darling
blacks gets a good lot,
and deserves more.
This is the time when out-back
horses are esteemed by each other ac-
cord ing to their length of tail. They
stand toget! r, head to heels, and
patiently brush flies off each other all day. The
bob-tail is an outcast, and the most miserable
animal that walks, and scrapes his lonesome carcase
inefficiently against a tree if there is one.
• • ■» •
“ Bobrid ” Concerning “Frank D.”
(B. 31/l/’O3) and his critics. Seems to me
that Frank was out on a “leg-pulling”
expedition. The cocksure critics are inter-
esting. “E.” writes: “Only rank new chums
would waste time fiddling about with the so-
called rabbit-traps sold by ironmongers to-day.
Squatters condemned them years ago, and there
are thousands of them stocked and hung up in
sheds on N.W. stations, while the managers go at
bunny with strips of wire-netting.” Very strange
then that the “so-called rabbit-traps” were
practically unprocurable either in Melbourne or
Sydney last winter —the demand far exceeding
the supply; and does “E.” think that trappers
(the discussion excludes “managers”) are such
bloated capitalists that they take round a convoy
with them ? There are now plenty of wire-netting
traps on the market but they were never intended
to catch rabbits —only “ flats ” ! The legitimate
trapper uses only the common spring-trap. Every-
one knows rabbits are “easily shot,” but it isn’t
sport, any more than “ sooling ” the dog on to your
mother-in-law’s hens, and a perforated rabbit isn’t
always marketable. As for digging rabbits out,
only the cove who cannot afford traps takes that
on ; I know plenty of burrows which a man could
not dig out in a week. By the way, how many
trappers take the trouble to bleed their rabbits ?
But it’s worth while since the whiter the flesh the
better for sale—at least, in the Cold Country.
• • * •
“Jaf.”: Re covered-in tank (“Jarrah,”
8., 14/2/*O2). A very good idea, but a lot depends
on the nature of the soil. I built one with much
care, but the banks started to crumble away, and
the roof is now in the bottom of the tank, where
it is neither useful nor ornamental.
* • • •
“ Jimmy ” Tyson died just in time, per-
haps. The buyer of his Meteor Downs (Q.)
station, Springsure district, has mustered since
the rain, and cab find only 1000 of the 95,000
sheep he bought. The price for the lot was said
to be £lOO,OOO.
• • » •
A correspondent (Jonathan Wigg) to the
Sydney press suggests that the occurrence of opal
deposits in Australia tells a climatic tale :
Opal owes its origin to Nature’s wanton-
ness in causing an abundant rainfall, alter,
nating with long periods of drought. It
is evident that such climatic conditions
have prevailed in portions of Australia for
a vast length of time, and the opal is Na-
ture’s intimation of this fact. The opa-
liferous deposits in this country' are in.
variably old lake beds In the interior of
the continent so-called salt-lakes—t'.e.,
lakes which contain in solution various
mineral substances dissolved by inflowing
waters from the surrounding country—are
common. Their waters, highly alkaline,
contain silica in solution, the substance of
which opal is composed. On the shores of
such lakes crystals of lime sulphate are
plentiful during dry seasons. This mineral,
known as the miner’s “kopi.” is always
found associated with opal at White Cliffs.
. . . Every level marks a period of drought
in which the lake waters were dried up,
the dissolved silica deposited in a gela-
tinous state, and subsequently hardened
by further abstraction of its water. Opal
is now being mined at White Cliffs at a
depth of over 60ft-., a fact which will help
one to form a notion of the vast ages
during which our country has endured
the blighting career of the drought fiend.
“ Chass”: “D.H.R.’s” statement (Bulle-
tin, 14/2/’O3) that ears of wheat mentioned by me
would have ripened into smut would be a very
ingenious guess, only I was stripping the field the
ears were taken from, and they contained good
hard wheat on one hand and dry smut balls on
the other. “D.H.R.’s” theory that smut is
caused by moisture is discounted by farmers’
experience, for they invariably have most smut in
dry years. Present season has been the driest
and worse for smut experienced ’by S.W. Vic
farmers. Writer saw grains of wheat taken from
Dart’s Imperial seed, the flour part of which was
streaked black and white. The grains were grey
in color and very hard. How would the uneven
moisture and sun theory pan out in that ease.
• » * *
“G.S.”: A tale of gruesome cruelty
comes from Bourke way. An Afghan, travel-
ling along the Darling, loaded his camel so that
it got a sore back. This the man utterly neglected,
and the sore became as large as an ordinary tea-
tray. At last, fearing punishment for his bru-
tality, the callous wretch sewed a piece of hessian
into the poor creature, thus covering the raw part
from observation. The camel died ; and, after
its death, the hessian-covered agony was dis-
covered. Not sa the Afghan. All efforts to find
him were futile.
• • • •
The crows have this season, for the first
time, found out that dates are good eating, and
they are stripping the palms which S. Australia
has planted at its Far North bores and water-
holes.
COUNTRY CATTLE SALE.
SALESMAN : “ Now, then, gentlemen, a nice lot o'
young cattle, heifers and steers. The steers
predominate ."
COCKY FARMER : “ I thought there was somethin'
wrong with the dashed calves .”
Up till the end of 1902 only 74 inches of
rain had fallen on the Johnstone River, N.Q.
This was looked upon as having been the driest
year on record. Inland stations that had got lOin.
in the year were accounted thrice lucky. And
yet there was only a difference in position of two
or three hundred miles.
• » » •
Victorian rabbit-trappers propose to form
a union. A future Melbourne eight-hours’ pro-
cession may flaunt a rabbit-skin banner with a
strange device in the face of a people hitherto
accustomed never to say “ rabbit ” without pre-
fixing “ damn.” Stated that at least 5000 workers
in Vic. alone are interested in rabbit-trapping.
* • * *
“A.H.J.”: That dog howl and rooster-
crow story (B. 31/l/’O3) reminds me of a dog we
once had. Used to follow an old rooster round
the run wherever he went. He wouldn’t touch
him —just followed him in the rear. If rooster
stopped, dog would step. At last, rooster would
get tired and take shelter under any barrel or
boards handy, whereupon dog would walk away
quite contented. This performance would be
gone through nearly every day, though we could
never find any explanation. Sly theory was that
the dog thought the rooster wanted exercise, but
another common view of the case was that he was
lost in admiration of the bird’s tail, and was, in a
manner, mesmerised by it.
PERFECTLY TRUTHFUL.
SMOGTHFACE : “ See here, Joe, you told me the
creek on your place never ran dry, an ’ its
been dry ail summer.”
JOE: “ Well, I said it never ran dry. When it
runs it isn't dry, an' when it’s dry it doesn't
run. See?"
Wellington (M.L.) Land Board has for-
feited a selection on the ground that the occupant
failed to make the stipulated improvements ; his
whole year's work consisted in putting in 12 posts,
and they weren't put in straight.
OLD CHUMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(One Glass.)
Old man, I’m glad to see you, by the livin’ Lord I am 1
I never thought we’d meet at Tally-ho 1
You’d hardly shed your milk-teeth when I left you at
“ The Dam,”
I reckon that’s a d long while ago !
But let us have a shicker, mate (a white man’s son are you),
For olden times and old acquaintance give the froth a
blow
(Two Glasses.)
I reckerlect.old party, when we tramped the Barwon down,
What time we couldn’t muster up a chew ;
The dodges we invented for a jamboree in town,
And got diddled with a brand we never knew ;
But come along and name it, ’tisn’t every day we meet,
For olden times and old acquaintance let us tap the
brew,
(Three Glasses.)
I knew your blanky father, and your (lovely) mother, too;
And I uster dance yer sister on me knee ;
1 b'lieve she hooked it after that (beauty) from Waroo—
I saw him last in Walgett on the spree ;
Bub come and wet your whistle, mate, and then we’ll
have a yarn,
For olden times and old acquaintance have a glass with
me
(The last to-day.)
Your father —yes, the d d old dog ! he shook a horse
of mine,
And sold him to a cockjq name of Bain ;
Of twenty years I’d known him he’d been out of chokey
nine—
In fact, he’s half his life-time on the chain ;
But let us have a rouser, mate—.hi stuff yer mother
liked—
For olden times and old acquaintance fill ’em up again.
(Just one more.)
You’re not too fond o’ shoutin’, you a:e what I call a
“bum”;
You’ve got your father’s curse, that’s plain to see ;
And, if I perished through it, I would never hump my
drum
Along the same track where you chanced to be.
No, 1 don’t want to fight you—hie!—it’s up to you to
shout—
For olden times an’ oldsh acquaintance, have a glass
with me 1
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
BURNING-OFF!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our Dad has bared his hairy amis
For eighteen months and more,
He’s rung the timber—every, stick ;
Felled gum-trees by the score ;
He’s had weary days, and sorrowful days,
But at last his heart grows light,
And he doesn’t regret a drop of his sweat —
For he’s burning-off to-night!
And the Lady Dark with her myriad eyes
May peer through the curtain’d gloom
At the Flame-King’s imps, as they snarl
and gnaw
The trunks to their ashen doom;
He has dragged them up, and piled them
up,
And now, by his watch-fires bright,
The world may know there’s an end to
his woe—
Dad’s burning-off to-night!
Our good old Dad ! He will stand and
stare
In a red log’s glowing core ;
And what do you think he’s watching
there
Through the reek and heat and roar ?
He sees a harxest, he sees a home,
The goal of a pioneer’s fight;
And it’s smoke—would you bet?—makes
his eyes so wet
As he’s burning off to-night!
RITA AND L.
Ernest Favenc writes :
Re your par. (21/2 *O3) about a singular yarn in the
London Jkwisii Chroxiclk. ‘ These exploring stories that
occasionally get foisted on to gullible editors are generally
too absurd to contradict, but this one about finding an
aboriginal Jewish tribe one thousand miles beyond the
Leopold Range is so absolutely absurd that one would
think the most credulous mortal would scarcely have
taken it seriously. One thousand utiles north of the
King Leopold Range would land you well in the Malay
Archipelago, south would bring you near the Great
Bight, west would sink you far in the Indian Ocean, and
east would drop you in Queensland. The goats and
Saturday observance business would not satisfy an ordi-
nary laughing jackass, and the Hebrew prayerbook is
beneath contempt. Still it is a great pity the record
of Australian exploration should be mixed up w ith these
audacious falsehoods, as there are so many people foolish
enough to believe anything they read in print. Sydney
Klein may he a business man, and, I should imagine, a
smart one, but of his merits as an explorer no one has
yet heard. “ There ain’t so sich a person ”as the aborigi-
nal Hebrew, and the varn is not even circumstantially
told.


STARVATION
White Bread starvation is the unsuspected cause
of wide-spread weakness and debility. The
strength of Wheat lies largely in the Bran-
Phosphates, which are, however, removed in
making White Flour, but are restored to the
diet by using CEREBOS SALT at table and
in cooking.
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
£5 ss.
RINGS^
Engagement Rings
Dress Rings
THE 5 DIAMONDS are gems of beauty.
THEY are exquisite, white, lustrous stones.
THEY are double cut, and of Special Brilliancy.
THEY hre set in our workshops in Hunter-street.
THEY have 18ct. gold settings of extra finjsh.
THEY are made by imported Ring Artists.
5 Beautiful,
Lustrous Diamonds,
£5 58.
Choice Pearls and
Diamonds,
£5 ; larger, £B.
They are sold for Cash and at LONDON’S LOWEST PRICES.
We stock no inferior Diamonds. Those bought from us always afford pleasure, because thev
compare favorably with any stones put against them. y
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery House In Australia,
23 HUNTER STREET.
ERNEST TOY, AUSTRALIAN VIOLINIST.
Photo, by Paul C. Poulsen, Brisbane.
Dear Bulletin.—A few hints to the
amateurs discussing tea-making in your columns.
Place the quart on two sticks to cause a
draugh underneath, and. put a short stick in
the water to prevent same from getting smoked,
iut two sticks on the fire. Boil till hydatids
and other microbes bubble up with the froth
which should be removed, if necessary, with
a stick. If there is more froth than one stick can
remove use two sticks. Insert the tea. Place
twostmks crosswise through the handles and lift
on the fire. 1 hen place two sticks crosswise over
the rim to cause tea leaves to sink rapidly. Have
a stick handy to keep the Big Flat-footed New-
ehum from upsetting, and then move your ears
rapidly to and fro as you pass it in.— R. W
Paterson.
* * * •
Written often that a snake exhausts its
venom temporarily, in one bite. This is, of
course, not so. Latest instance to the contrary
comes from Ararat, and is recorded in Melb. Age
(18/2/’O3). Rabbit pursued by 10-year-old boy and
his dog took refuge in a log. A snake, who in-
habited the log, bit the boy, the rabbit and the
dog, and all three died. The rabbit and the log
must be responsible for 75 per cent, of the cases of
snake-bite recorded.
“Apteryx”: About the most
liquor-ridden portion of Maoriland,
bar Auckland goldfields, is the Sed-
donised West Coast, where in the
townships almost every second build-
ing is a pub. As the pub-keepers and
brewers take the lead in politics,
the Parliamentary candidate who
doesn’t “lubricate” freely has no
chance. This time, however, cold-
water Isitt contested the four West
Coast electorates, just to ensure a full
poll on the liquor question, and he
didn’t even visit the place. I was
amused at the pains Bung and co. took
to impress the voters not to take Isitt
“too cheap.” They didn’t mind so
much the fate of “Rowdy ” M'Kenzie
or “Jimmy” Colvin, but they feared
lest the solid little band of anti-
liquorites should, through the indiffer-
ence of the majority, succeed in carry-
ing Reduction or No Licenses. A
drowning man could not struggle
more fearfully than did these paunchy
liquorites. The legal provision for-
bidding pubs to do business for the
first half of the election-day is flag-
rantly violated. The police dare not
enforce the liquor laws down there
because everyone’s hand would be
against them if they did. The liquor-
interest bosses municipal and county
councils, hospital-committees, etc., as
well as race-meetings and all kindred
local affairs. Yet the place has the
usual proportion of churches and other
supposed adjuncts of high civilisation.
How things must have hummed in the
“good old days” when “Dick” Sed-
don kept a calico pub. at the Big
Dam ; when a drink cost a pinch of
gold, when the earthen floor would
pan ounces to the dish, when disputes were settled
with gloveless fists and boots ! What an interest-
ing autobiography would Seddon’J be!
“A.M.” to “ Nym ” (B. 7/2/’O3) : For
years, when resident of the Upper Clarence, we
used the spoon-bait, trailing it from the stern of a
boat; and we often caught in an afternoon 40 or
more perch'from to 41b. Many who might
see this can verify it. But perch when much
“ fished ” amongst in this manner become wary.
I have often seen them dart at the revolving bait
and turn. Have caught them hooked by the eye
and frequently by the side. We also caught flat-
head, but never cod, although we have tried where
they abound.
Vincent N.” re certain Maoriland
mountains:—
Brothera <B. 22/11/-02; writes of Maori-
? traveller, not as a resident.
Hence it is that New Plymouth is the more
h i?’ be ? ause Mount Egmont is in the
mv Ck ff n s Now, I can see this mountain from
Xnl, v . era ndah in a New Plymouth suburb
'™ e "®y er c |_ oud and f og permit. It is an irregular
a rC Jfnr mo T e or 'ess covered with snow—
s£&**&*- m v uman ob J ect - Ifc has its uses
e ‘ A Ifc ls , a barometer to the weatherwise,
cuts us® wi?h US ih Car andbeau tiful streams; but it
«haL!L-h the cruellest winds. Its volcanic
h a a f^ff“l n^ B u ? that, merciless as it now is in
iharT™ ’-V . b ? en * and ma y again be, worse
than merciless in its fire. It will never inspire
wstaS^ffh 8 w hen 1 Baw ifc flrBt , far across the
patera of the Manawatu Bight, glowing delicately
P‘" k the light of evening—a mysterious hoi- 1 1,
mount of vision, a home of pure spirits and
, wh ° 8 ? no man had won? If you
H ?i!° ve , th f. mountain, see it rarely, or if you
t ZZT fc ? h n e w,thin of it, settle some
itself w 0f mll ? s i away - where it shall reveal
itself but now and then, in fresh mornings, rising
f" d shadowy to crown the dreams from
y .°o have but just arisen ;or under evening
S’wv ln pensive grey or hopeful rose-
C^°J k 3 V hlB P e r P eace . But it is no neighbor.
as a background for common use give me long
langes which scarcely touch the snow-line, such
as the Tararuas or Ruahines. Under the play
ot hght and air, their colors vary from hill to hill,
and hour to hour. Now they show their spurs
and gullies, now the tint of their plentiful grass,
sometimes the trees of their bush, and sometimes
the pathetic skeletons of trees that were. Roads
cross them ; they are grazed and dwelt upon.
, bey are bu man and friendly. They answer all
moods. I lived nearly two years in sight of
them, and they kept their newness. The best
part of Mount Egmont is that which is most like
them, its base, which indeed is better in one
respect, for the rocks and snow above give it the
interest that belongs to all transition forms. But
1 d 0 up l look at it too often, for since that chilly
mountains P ° inted 1 inoline to be thrift >’ with my
* * • *
“Thurla”: “Bob R.” (B. 31/l/’O3)
speaks of the Cape marigold as being introduced
to Australia by soldiers from S’Africa. But any
time during the past 18 years this plant—Cape
weed as it is also called—has flourished vigorously
in the Gunnedah (N.S.W.) district.
* • • *
“ Awakino " : Concerning billy tea ; even
if properly made, half the time it is spoilt by
being smoked. A lid does not always cure, unless
it is an exact fit 5 but a green branch laid across
the top of the open billy is a sure preventative.
At one time I thought everybody knew tin's tip,
but of late I have several times endured smoked
tea.
• * • *
“ A.C.” re moon reflections in mirror :
Explanation is to be found in any good physics primer.
The reason is much the same as the reason for the multi-
plication of images of a candle, placed between two
mirrors. When light strikes the surface of a mirror, part
is reflected ; part penetrates, is refracted (bent as an oar
appears to be in water), and is reflected from the silvered
surface. This is the principal ray forming the image.
But part of this ray is reflected downward again from the
first surface upon the second (silvered), to be again
reflected to form a second image. The multiplication is
infinite ; but the eye appreciates only a finite number.
“BILLY” ELTON , AS THE DEAF BOAT-
OWNER IN “THE GUV’NORN
Photo, by Falk Studios, Sydney.
“ Ninnat ” : Once a chronic camper-otrfc
has acquired a taste for billy-tea he will be satisfied
with no other ; but it is the addition of the sugar
—especially coarse brown sugar—that gives the
charm, not the boiling. Uhsweetened billy-tea is
nauseous.
* • * •
“L.”: That poisonous fish (8., 14/2/’O5)
was evidently a toad-fish (sapo). They are often
hauled up in nets, sometimes among shoals of
garfish or pilchards. Boys and other fiends blqw
them up and use as footballs. Toad-fish is known
to those in the trade as a handy poison for eats
and such like.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
A o liability is undertaken in any ease to contribu-
tions voluntarily submilted t whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
9.F. : Easy sentiment in evil metre A.W. :
Faint and dull—like the mildewed memory of Melchisedek.
....Maoriland Correspondent: Well, Freetrade Britain
is, compared to the rest of Europe and the United States,
the country where the big landlord appears in his most
-rulent form. Most Protectionist countries have a race
of small proprietors. And when George Reid took the
duties off silks, satins, jewellery, precious stones, pic-
tures, statuary, carriages, scent, pianos, plate, and so on,
and proceeded to tax the small, drought-stricken farmer
at the same rate as the rack-renting landlord, he did
a noble thing, didn’t he ? Make no mistake—the bulls of
the big squatter crowd was with George Reid all the
time. The farmers were largely against him, but that’s
quite a different thing. The squatters are mostly Crown
leaseholders, who don’t in the least object to see the
farmer taxed Fred. S. : You give a general effect of
smartness, but there’s nothing behind to validate y0u...,
S. Wood : Some humor in it, but, upon the whole, too
crude....Deeby: Well, the fact is that the women sur-
geons capable of performing gynaecological operations
haven’t appeared yet; and it is better to be saved by an
expert man than killed by an inexpert woman. Where
a false sense of modesty makes a woman reluctant to be
operated on by a male surgeon she is often assured that
a lady doctor will act; the chloroform is given and
the male surgeon comes in and operates . S.G B •
“ Stress ” shows a good deal of skill, but is on very hack-
neyed lines; try at something within your own experience.
..J.J.M. (Stratford) : No, it isn’t... .D.H.:Can’t think of
anything disrespectful enough to fit your verses
A-S a : “We Two" nearly illegible, but seems rather
weak, also bloom ” and “June” won't rhyme.. Ang
G.: “ Paris ’’ and “ parasite ’’ joke is older than the'hills!
It !s a descendant of the pre-Abraham joke about
damn and “cuss" and “ Damascus.”....Arthur O. :
You may develop into a fair descriptive writer, but at
present your work is crude and awkward Woman-
Voter : The diatribe you forward savors of actual mental
aberration.... Parana: It’s too long and lean and shaky
on its pins Myra : Bright, but too evanescent
Shingler: An overgrown and unwieldy yarn about
nothing'in particular.... W.J.W. i Don’t remember it.
Politan : What shocking MS.! Why not type-write?
W. H.M. (Melb.): Join the art class at the National
Gallery, or apply to the instructor for the information
von require... .T. Scott: The case is a bad one, but
unless the State which grants old age pensions makes it a
necessary qualification that the recipient must have lived
for a considerable number of years in that State all the
aged of Australia would bear down upon it. Then in
addition to the loss it would appear in the census returns
as the State with the lowest birth-rate, the highest death-
rate, the smallest percentage of able-bodied population,
and other horrors.. Mark Julian i Not nearly bright enough.
•••■ H ; R -W. : Too dull as a story and not told as a fact...
Wilhelm : Sorry still below the mark... Jeanie B. : You
are improving, but you’ve still some distance to travel.
... . C.C.H. : Not ill done, but we couldn’t well print such
a ' ‘ Aurelius : Entirely devoid of spirit and vigor.
The Shadow: Has merit. May be printed . FS •
Very laborious humor Genung : Not much in it
Jas. P. : Hopelessly bad verse.... L.W.S. : Rhyme
wretched and metre mixed....R.F.S.J. : Good material,
but we couldn’t use it in such an awkward form....
G.W.M.: Afraid we are not quite up to appreciating the
argument that to shear non-union is worse than to steal
horses. We would, however, advise bushmen to do
neither Kobbi : Some promise, but a lot of work
needed yet.... Dolly D. : You send us “a slight parody
touching lightly on the terrible state of the country.” If
you took the trouble to read The Bulletin you’d know
that we detest “slight” things, loathe parodies, and are
not wont to “touch lightly on” terrible things....
MabelS.: “Weeds” has some originality and pathos
but syntax too sloppy.... Dick Gore: Hardly worth
while H.M. (W.A.): Interest not strong enough..
Mitty : Good ; but the sugar-making technicalities are a
heavy handicap... .Sinbad the S. • You should take legal
ad v ice.... Rupert W. : What a profoundlv unhumorous
person you must be—to have taken that seriously. Why
Slut looked out of every line of it Lota : A w'ild whiil
of unsound arguments and ill-applied epithets F.F.P. ;
“Interesting” is very commonly pronounced with the’
accent on the third syllable, but there is no dictionary
authority for the practice ...Amanda: Spoilt by its fiat
finish. Great is the art of leaving 0ff....8. Mac: Too
closely modelled on “Mr. Dooley.” W. Faddy : Well
conceived, but faulty in execution... .Kim : Yon do not
give the title of the yarn... .Harold K. : Good stuff, but
handling rather heavy.... Speed : Bears the impress of
truth, but hardly makes “ story” enough. .Mark Henry :
Too much dialect ; and a very mixed and heterogenous
-dialect at that. .... .Lor : Weak and commonplace
Ton. L : Good lines in it but not quite up A.H. : Holi-
days aren t all built that way ; and exaggeration on the
subject does no good Kettledrum: We’ve already
dealt with that matter...“ F” :On too familiar lines....
G.M.F. : Takes too long to get to the point G. H.
See : Yes, foreign-owned vessels, except men-of-war, are,
when they enter an Australian port, subject to Australian
shipping 1aw.... J.F. : You don’t get the uncannyness
you strive for in “ Peter Marlin”; other yarn too thin
-Alone : It’s a tired verse and that’s perhaps why it limps.
.. .. O.K. : Hardly, for u 5.... Wilmot N. : Your argument
lacks the one important step—proof that the worker is
going to be any better off by limiting population
Roan Mare : Possibly the Ocean Accident Insurance Co
would do business of that character J.A.R. : Cut your
pars down a whole 10t.... J.M.L. : Poison gag a chestnut;
lolly yarn not good enough... .Annandale Ratepayer:
Half-a-column about the small inanities of a small
municipal election! YVhat do you take us for?
Anna K. : Well written in a homely, gossipy way, but out
of Bulletin’s line Matchbox: Worth consideration,
anyhow... .The Lad : Fear it’s too much of a hair-raiser.
Sadie W. : Too artificial and far-fetched Dido:
You have literary ability, but you lack artistic self-
irestraint. If you’d strive less after cheap effect, you’d
do much better... Sara M‘B. : Technically good verse,
but hopelessly hackneyed themes.... Ratty :Ah well—
you ought to know !... .Beta :No ; the Solomons were
yarned by De Meyra, who discovered them, “Laslslas de
Salomon,” because he supposed them to have been the
sources of Solomon’s wealth. They are now all British,
save Bougainville and Buka (German).. .. Bullfrog: Can’t
croak in Bulletin. ... W.W.G. : Sydney Garden Palaee
was burnt in 1882... .G.M. : Thanks, but we really
haven’t time for puzzles R.G.M. : Too stilted \
'Thomson : “ Revenge ” has too many mixed metaphors
C.W.P. : Verse stumbles very badly.... Awakino: The
Bulletin calls Maoriland a State (1) because it hates the
word colony (“ nothing good ever came out of a colony”) •
<2) because it darned well likes ; (3) because it feels that
way ; (4) because if Maoriland isn’t a State it should be •
<5) because it will be a State some day ; (6) because name
seems to aggravate a lot of people ; (7) out of cussedness...
Cecil E. J. : Thanks ; already commented on in 100
•quarters J.: See Bulletin Books ad. on “Red Pa«-e.”
“Bulletin Reciter,” price ss. 4d., post free, should’fill
your bi 11.... Kauri : Works round to a good finish, but is
too inconsequent and digressive F.J.C. : Well enough
written, but too conventionally treated for Bulletiit. ...
Dolly B.: Begins in the middle, and ends nowhere....
Wanganui: Painfully pretentious and prosy A.W.8.:
That yarn crops up regularly about once a month
graphicViff 0t ba<l material, but you haven ’t the para-
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W.M.O. : Unsuitable to emphasise by illustration
ir N f lther drawing nor gag good en0ugh....J.0.:
Hoary chestnut, badly illustrated; sometimes we de-
liberately print a chestnut, but only with a specially good
Hinh«n t ‘ o TiV'' i J ' J ; H ' : • Stale J oke » faulty drawing....
Hiphen . Third-rate private bar Joke rejected without
thanks.. ..Ou : Maonland Govt, shouldn’t allow the cir-
culation, as a post-card, of such a ghastly horror. It
looks as bad as a Seddon war speech... Nym • Neither
suggestion very hopeful, Unavailable : H.P., J. 8., Uloola,
Balb., W.M., A.W., Goondi, J.J.F.
. Mr. -Percy Bates is a Sydney tenor singer of
distinction, whose benefit (preparatory to study
abroad) takes place shortly. From six years of
age Mr. Bates has been a pleasing singer—as a
boy soprano first and latter as a tenor. His first
appearance as a tenor in Sydney was in 1894, and
since then he lias been very successful as a concert
performer.
MR. PERCY BATES.
Photo , by Peels, Sydney.
T. M. Smith writes from Greymouth
(M.L.) :
With reference to your paragraph re Sangal case
(31/l/’O3, page 13). The London Globe is wrong in stating
“ that no woman temporarily reprieved for a similar
cause has ever been hanged in England.” In the seventies
the notorious poisoner, Mary Ann Cotton, sentenced to
death at the Durham assizes, was respited for some
months, yet as soon as was possible after the birth of her
child, she was duly hanged in Durham gaol, the child
having been adopted by a lady. This woman was, I
believe, the last murderess examined by a jury of
matrons.
The Bulletin Recitek has been taken by
Bill and Jim straight to their warm hearts, and
already its contents have gladdened thousands of
audiences all over Australia. Most of the best
and most famous Bulletin recitation-pieces are
included in this fine collection—price ss. post*
free from Bulletin office.
Ernest Toy.
I made my first terrestial appearance at Bendigo
—not Charters Towers—23 years ago. I struck
the latter place when I was only a few months old.
An old. Palmer diggings-man gave me my first
impression of divine melody; after this, a local
barber gave me a few wrinkles , and then Man by
took me in hand in London. When I had put in
seven years’ rough work, Ysaye advised me to
study under Hollaender at the Sternsches Con-
servatoire in Berlin. There I became leader of
the orchestra and first violin in the quartette.
“ Then I obtained an engagement at Monte
Carlo, and, on my return in the Nice express, got
my first, and I hope my last, experience with the
train-robber. But the affair is pretty ancient
now, anyway.
“On my return to London I got several good
concert engagements and some ‘at home’ work,
h had offers from H. J. James, the conductor of
the Queen’s Hall concerts, and but for my father’s
death, which meant a return to Australia, I should
be at present touring Spain with Marix Loeven-
sohn, the ’cellist.
“London? Yes, all right when you’ve got it,
but it takes a bit of getting. I had splendid
letters of introduction to people when I came back
from Germany, but they wouldn’t even hear me.
You want a stiff upper lip, I can tell you. Of
course you can get plenty of appearances if you
like to pay for them. I could have played at St.
James’ Hall, or anywhere for that matter, if I’d
taken £5 worth of tickets.
“ You want to . show people something else
besides letters of introduction. I saw Florence
Schmidt there—her voice seems fuller and richer,
and she has a good footing. I also met Mrs.
Creed, Hetty Holroyd, Kate Rooney and Maggie
Sterling, who are all doing well; but there are
others . . .
‘‘ My violin ? Yes, it’s a Gasparo di Salo, 1869,
right enough. Former fiddle came off worse than
I did when I was attacked by train robbers, and
before I left London the Queenslanders there pre-
sented me with this one. Ross Robinson (who
has known me since I was a two-year old), Lord
Lamington, and good old Sir Henry Norman
contributed their bit. She’s a clinker— ‘ a blanky
poem in wood,’ as a Charters Towers enthusiast
told me last month.”
ARNOLD DENHAM.


A SATISFACTORY GUARANTEE?
“Premier flee, of N.S.W., has cabled to London a refutation of the attacks of critics on the State's finance: he has also arranged for Attorney-General Wine, who is now in London, and Agent-
General Copeland, to reply to the statements and defend the State’s credit.” — News Item.
BELL COLLEN: "GENTLEMEN, GENTLEMEN, WHAT ABOUT THE SHECURITY?” CHORUS OF TBREE : “OH, THAT’S ALL RIGHT; WE’LL ALL GUARANTEE HIM.”
THE MAN WITH THE WOR' (who has hern wisely left outside) : “SHALL I COME IN AND GUARANTEE ALL THREE OF YOU?”
CHORUS : “NO, DON’T! IF HE SEES YOU IT’LL SPOIL EVERYTHING.”


<5 oc '^ , <^ c
of I \t] «,
between employee L'
e.rr\ployer - between
Cdsh'ldJ Labour'
is responsible for
loT” of irjiscbicf
|oi' no sue I 7
really exists
—
Host- to Hostess -
frje . my fo
xnTv'oduce my les/~
'ft'iend Srtjltft
of S €W «
X*Tt[e WorKer %< ftfe ‘
pl&nT' j>l'o'iid«d hi*« t
of Cv HiJ v * s ° , w !£* t * te
V -C °«
V7°iV -fliv-r ‘ r ‘S "f« + "Wf^S
'fJjorrj S 'Hjacf' (Vf> , 'W
> Üboar **« Iwo ,
irjic* r 4
Q u lie right", Dz.'SxJ
"fijese
d iSn*lC,'tiOrjS
l I)2k'/* 1?««*7
k do*T« V^*v-Y
I v/t t(] |o*7o
L *5
■*w
(Ab.taJ "SITc/
nw -
'iife (oancil W handed
ifjg j'o rrr; &H
''fc 4
I* >7 tioT~ lan"^ -
3 ou+of' e.ve* v6' Consoled W&re
l^bo rfed Jx'fyX*- w'rls blzf K labour.
' , (~K*d°r Co fl'»7owod<)
Chief Set t
| l^\)rr* y *iof 1
*7ee<4 -for fefornry
irj disJ'nZr With
CfiiTjiriaJs
170 Kt7<?wlgdge
op
Sys^rr,
Very s°fry . "iy
, We
, fc'b&K
un+rll *s
*ll 4fts lefT
°V h'"7-
VC Ije we lj*ye
Wt. K«eb Out- httnC^^
■ttje W K ,r ? l |Ke ;
X cC«U VVO, ' K £
*5 2*4**u*jJsVed
''tijc
SU’*i -|t*o*r>
|rVine —n€ s° £
Iv w *> ,<s
|>W> - fy 4 *^
wbev hes noisome -if
"BSp* * l "foK your s e'f
yc«A<i A°^
v C**7<l^ r
life offer of Million* l '*
lo '%& S4-O.OVO fi/ol
\/etieyeJ\ t/ C^trrq^
W \ eiri Aed frjeA ■
rjtr4
tn<,s
V
An* yet" -ftps IS
rj&f>f>e*i ip our
"fo of dv-fiVcK
VICTORIAN IDEAS.


A. SAUNDERS
FOR HANDSOME AND USEFUL PRESENTS —WATCHES, CLOCKS,
JEWELLERY, SILVERPLATE, LEATHER, AND OPTICAL GOODS,
A. BAUNDEHS.
Fare Solid Silver TOILET SET, Square Cut Glasses, Chased and
Ornamented Silver. Large Size, as above pattern, £4 ;
size smaller, in Bound Glassware, £2 10s. Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ First-olass Pure Silver PURSE, beautifully Chased and
Embossed, Bin. x 2in., £2 6s : large size, 4§in. x 2in., £3 3s.
In Silk-lined Case.
«
e.)
rJ*-'
i
*
$
S2S
I
M
m
'em
gm.
o.
$
o>r>
-vX
•v
£t3
*n
\.
jQy
<TS
iOn^
£*j
0.--
VS-
*£s
rS
ifu
S S
4*
a
iy>si
m
m
m
$3
c/v
m
£k£
Z.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies' First-class Pure Solid Silver TOILET SET (18 pieces), in Beautiful
Silk-lined Case, Handsomely Chased and Ornamented, £l5 10s.
Post Free to any part of the Commonwealth.
A. SAUNDERS.
No. S9l. Highest duality Two Pure Solid Silver
BRUSH, COMB, and MIRROR, in Silk and Leather
Case, Double Catch, £5 10s. Handsome Present.
rii
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s SHAVING SET, Pure Solid Silver,
40s, 50s, £3. £3 10s. A Nice Present.
SlO7. —COMB, Puie Silver-mounted,
Real Tortoiseshell, 20s.
Similar, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver
EAU DE COLOGNE,
Full Size, 22s 6d ;
A. SAUNDERS.
Six Silver-plated on Hard White Metal
SERVIETTE RINGS, in Oise. 17s 6d.
Ai Quality, by James Dixon, London.
SS x.
Ladies’ Pure Silver CARDOASE, Chased aud Embossed,
in Silk-lined Case, 255, with Monogram.
C.—Two JAM and Two BUrTER, Beautifully Chased,
Pure Silver F.lectro-plated on White Metal, Pirst-class duality,
15s, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s ; 2 only, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20a
All in silk-lined cases.
mm
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Solid Silver Top White Cut Glass PUFF BOXES,
v>4 . 10s, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHIED'S SET. A 1 Quality, Pure Silver on White Metal, 25e.
Other Similar Styles, 3 Pieces, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
All in Silk-lined Cases.
A. S ' UNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 30s.
A Handsome First-class Article.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS, Pure Silver-mounted,
■Fancy Cut Glass, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d ;
White Cut Glass, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure SilTer CLOTH or HAT BRUSH,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver
THIMBLES,
Gold-mounted, 4s (3d.
Other Styles,
Is 6d, 2s (3d, and 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies'
HAIR BRUSH.
Pine Silver, Chased,
20s, 255, 30s.
Splendid Value.
Cheaper Lines,
xOs and 12s 6d.
HAT PINS, Any Initial.
Pure Solid Silver, Is 6d ;
Stone Set, 3s 6d, 4s 6d.
Pure Silver-mounted KNlb'E RESTS,
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d ;
Large size, 21s.
CAKE or DESSERT KNIVES and FORKS, Handsomely Carved Ivory
Handles, in Silk and Velvet-lined Case, f'4 10s. A Handsome Present.
Six FORKS only, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ or Gent.’s Travelling DRESSING CASE, in Morocco or Russian
Leather, Nicely Lined, 30s. Similar Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, £2 £5
Gent, s WALLET and POCKET BOOK. All Improvements. Silver-mounted
as above. 10s 6d ; with extra Shield, 12s 6d. Initials Nicely Chased. Is Extra’
Other Styles, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s. A Nice Present.
A: .SAUNDERS.
CHILD’S CUP, Pure Silver-
mounted and Nursery Rhyne-,
10s 6d. Post Free.
Two
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies' PURSE and CARDCASE,
Crocodile Leather,
Silver-mounted, 5s 6d ;
with Shield Centre, 7s 6d.
Pure Silver-mounted Lizard Skin
PURSE, 7s 6d, 12s 6d, and 15s.
-N
Gent.'a Solid Silver HAIR BRUSHES
and COMB,
Silk-lined Cuse, £B, £3 10s.
w
S*f4fcS
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Latest PURSE and WALLET,
with Strap, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20j.
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver, chased,^6<L Latest and Newest Design*-
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted
PIN CUSHION,
7s 6d.
Pure Silver-mounted
Ladies’ COMPANION. IBs
smaller, 13s 6d.
6d
A, SAUNDERS,
or\r\ on S nl > o lead, NG JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH, .
CO9, 811, 813, 815. 817 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY
NEARLY OPPOSITE BAIL.WAY STATION.


Disorders of
the Stomach
Reg-ulated by
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets
Price 1/6. lust what you need.
Disorders of the stomach are, as a rule,
caused by a torpidity of the liver and bowels
and irregularity in living. When the diges-
tion is naturally weak, as is often the case
with people of middle age and older, too much
care cannot b@ used to keep the bowels
regular, for when they become constipated
the trouble is greatly aggravated. In fact,
constipation is the prime cause of nearly
all disorders of the stomach. Keeping the
bowels regular, however, will not alone cure
these disorders. Only easily digested food
should be taken, and that moderately and
well masticated, And at regular hours.
Fully six hours should elapse between meals,
so as to give ample time for digestion and
allow the stomach a period of rest before
more food is taken. The liver and whole
digestive apparatus needs toning up, for which
purpose take two Chamberlain’s Stomach
and Liver Tablets to begin with and then
one tablet each day for a few days until the
disorder is corrected, They should be taken
immediately after supper. In case one tablet
a day does not keep the bowels free, take two j
or if one each day causes the bowels to act
too freely, take only one every other day.
NOTE,—If not able to obtain Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon re-
ceipt of 1/G, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 123
Glorious Rains at Last!
More Hopeful Prospects.
that the Drought really appears to have broken,
and prospects seem more hopeful, you will feel
inclined to invest in a . .
WATERPROOF or OILSKIN COAT!
In which case, post your orders to
CHARLES GILBERT,
The Specialist in Men’s Wear . . .
Queen Street, Brisbane,
Whose values in these goods are notoriously the best in
the Commonwealth. All Coats guaranteed Waterproof,
with sewn and taped scams at 215., 255., 30s. to 50s.
Oilskins, 15s. 6d., 17s. 6d., 2 2s. 6d. (leather-bound and
double-lined ) Carriage paid to any address. Send a
Trial Order to day for anything in lien’s Wear.
Missing Friends.
IF CEORCE KENNEDY (son of GEORGE and MARGARET
■ KENNEI) ), formerly of Ararat, Victoria, will
communicate with the undersigned, he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
If dead, his representatives should communicate.
Any information acceptable.
r. j. McCullough,
Solicitor, Barcaldine,
QUEENSLAND.
AT, BERT MINIKEN, last heard of at Broken Hil
and Whiteclitfs, January, 1901, is anxiously sought
for by his brother CHARLES. Any information respect-
ing him urgently requested by
CHARLES MINIKEN,
G.P.0., Stydnej*
W. N. Willis, M.L.A., aa a land agenfc
needs no black-tracker to guide him through the
devious paths of the Land Acts. He fights all
his cases, and the harder the task the better he
like it, and wins all the time. 21 Bligh-street.*
DRYSDALE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed bv physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Timbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills', All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W,
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton.
England.* F
NATURE
ET. AL. VERSUS
DEATH.
VERDICT FOR PLAINTIFFS.
T * u- n lllusfcrat ! on j of the manner in which Nature, though worn and weary, being aided by Human
Hutchinson; Rold N olthßrighton, “ in the f ° lloWing letter fr ° m Mr ' Jam6S
~ /. n ebruary, 1899, iny wife was taken dl after her confinement. I had a doctor and a trained nurse
attending her for two months, at the end of which time she was so ill that the doctor came to me and
proposed to call in another medical man, not witli any hope that doing so would be of any use, but in
order to assure me that all that human skill could do had been done to cure hr. At this juncture a
friend offered to nurse my wife. Seeing how she was affected, the friend bee . cl me to send at once
and get a bottle of Warner s Safe Cure. I had no faith in patent medicines, but alter repeated solici-
tations 1 consented. I had to send ten miles to get a bottle, and well remember with what little
faith I gave it to my friend to try its effect. On the following Tuesday my wife was slightly better,
and in about two weeks she was able to sit up in the bed, and in about two more she was able to
attend to her household duties.
• co^ fr° ln the doctor the change of medicine, and in four or five days after we started
giving Warner s oafe Cure he said that lie could hold out some hope of reoovery, as he noticed a
decided change in her condition. I said nothing about the change of medicine, and when my wife
was up and well again, he presented me with his bill for £25. I then undeceived him, and told him
what had effected the cure. He told me that my wife’s was one of the most obstinate cases of kidney
trouble that he had ever met with, and that he had no hope of her recovery after the first fortnight.”
Nature cannot be outraged without affording Disease and Death an opportunity to defeat her
and Disease and Death are ceaselessly waiting for opportunities. Any weakness or interruption of
the natural action of the
KIDNEYS OR LIVER
is a chance they eagerly embrace. Nature is strong, but Disease and Death are strong also. Human
intelligence and Science are INature s allies in the struggle for victory. Ignorance and Stupidity are
on the side of Disease and Death.
The Kidneys. —To the Mffr.eys belong the duty of cleansing the blood from certain impurities.
The kidneys of the average person filter ami extract from the blood about three pints of water every
day. In this water should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains, in weight, of
uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce
If the kidneys are weak or diseased a quantity of this refuse matter is suffered to remain in the system'
and becomes actively poisonous, causing us to suffer from Rheumat sm, Gout, Lumbago
Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, AnsenDa, Gravel, Stone and Bladder
Troubles. The commonest indication that there is anything wrong with the action of the
kidneys is
PAIN IN THE BACK,
but a simple test as to whether they are doing their duty efficiently is to place some urine, passed the
first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy,
shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural colour, or has particles floating about in' it, then
the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must at once be taken to restore them to health and
activity, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some other serious illness will result.
The Liver. —The liver deals with a different class of waste matter of the body. There is
perfect sympathy between the kidneys and the liver. When the one is sick the other is sick also. If
the liver is sluggish or diseased it not only affects the kidneys, but it causes biliary poisons to remain
in the system and produce Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache, and Blood
Disorders.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
This remarkable medicine was discovered about thirty years ago. It is the only medicine known
to science which possesses the power to act beneficially alike upon the kidneys and upon the liver.
It restores those vital organs to health and vigor, and because it does this it necessarily cures
Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Persistent Headache, Anaemia,
Stone. Gravel, Bladder Troubles, Indiges ion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Head-
ache, Blood Disorders, and any disease due to the presence of urinary and biliary poisons in the
system.
A treatise explaining the curative action of Warner’s Safe Cure, and containing accounts of many
cases cured, when recovery was despaired of, will be sent free on application to H. H. Warner & Co.
Limited, Australasian Branch, Melbourne, Vic.
The HXTIE-W CENTURY RIFLE
15s
Full Length, 35in. ; Weight, 31b. ; Fires 8.8. Cap, or
22 Long, or 22 Short Rim Fire Cartridge. Takes down
with a single screw. All parts of Best Steel. Per-
fectly Machined throughout. Accurately sighted and
well Rifled for Perfect Shooting. Will kill at 300yds.
Carriage Paid to any railway station in N.S.W. Orders despatched same day.
P.O. Orders payable to
Sydmy Small Arms Co., 57 Post Office Chambers, Sydney,
AND CROSSED E.S. AND A. BANK.
A Full Stock of D. 8.8. L. Guns, Rifles, and Revolvers always on Hand.
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
Mr. Chamberlain’s Red Mark.
It must be credited to the English newspapers
that they lied manfully and well on behalf of Mr.
Chamberlain’s tour in S’Africa. All party con-
siderations were sunk to assist his enterprise. The
puff preliminary, the trumpet anticipatory, the
fiction introductory, suggested the kindly press
treatment of a poor but well-advertised theatrical
“show.” If the English newspapers could have
made a success of the Chamberlain appearance
in the role of a Peace-maker on the S’African
stage, they would have done so. But, alas it
* e - The actor was entirely un-
fitted for his part. Enthusiastic falsehoods about
his first appearances were tried, but when
the theatre began to resound with hoots and the
stage to be littered with curses, the truth had to
be told. The “show ” was a failure. It is hard
to see how any reasonable men could have been
led to hope a single moment for any other result.
Mr. Chamberlain was the Man who Made the
War, the statesman who soaked S’Africa in
British and Boer blood, and put back English
moral civilisation a century by an attack on the
little farmers’ Republics. The ex-Radical, ex-
Kepublican, ex-business man, who had crawled
on his belly into the councils of the “Gentle-
men of England,” wished to make a
mark on history as one of them. He did
—a red mark. We will do him the
justice of believing that he was not aware how red
the mark would be, that he contemplated only a
three months’ war, and then so many thousands
of miles added to the British Empire in the name
But even when the foulness of
the deeds necessary to be perpetrated was clear to
him, Mr. Chamberlain persevered. This man,
who had made up his mind to wade through a
stream of blood to his end, was not to be deterred
when the stream turned to a torrent. In short,
tne plutocrats of the Transvaal goldfields wished
to destroy the white democracy of the Transvaal
in the interests of cheap labor ; Mr. Chamberlain
wished to make a mark on history ; and there was
war. For Mr. Chamberlain afterwards to send
himself to the stricken and bleeding community
into which he had plunged the knife to the haft,
as mediator, conciliator, peacemaker, shows how
great a fool a cute business-mail can be when he
enters a field where considerations of moral senti-
ment must be given some weight.
HAT S.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ B.” : A quaint error occurs in the
pictorial pages of Melb. Austbalasian of Jan.
24. A highly fanciful illustration, depicting the
main entrance to the city, the ornamentations and
improvements of which comprise the only good
result of the visit of Mrs. York’s husband, is
given, and in it the carriages, etc., are all travelling
on the wrong side of the road.
“A Mainlander,” wiiting up Hobart Gaol
in Tas. News, incidentally drags in a Dunedin
(M.L.) reminiscence :
Cyrus Haley was a prisoner. A man of education and
some means, he had been a popular resident of Auckland.
That city was suddenly thrown into a state of intense
excitement by the report that he had been arrested for
attempting to murder Mr. Thomas Russell, a prominent
lawyer, and the head of many large financial and other
institutions. There was a woman in the case, of course ;
hut there was more than that, too. There had been
many mysterious fires in Auckland. Tried for attempted
murder, Haley was found guilty ; also on two, indeed, I
think, three, other indictments, all for arson—burning
down the N.Z. Insurance (Jo.’s buildings in queen-street,
and burning down the Choral Hall, in Synions-street, and
burning down a kerosene bond off the Grafton-road. Of
every one of these crimes he was convicted, and his motive
was thesame in each—revenge on Mr. Russell, oras he was
generally called “Tom” Russell, who was pecuniarily
interested in every place destroyed. Three, if not four,
periods of twenty years was the sentence of the Judge,
the much-beloved Chief-Justice Sir George Arney. He
was sent for safety, with another notorious Auckland
criminal named Plummer, down to the Dunedin gaol.
I had known Haley in Auckland. When “doing” the
Dunedin gaol I was allowed to see him, and he asked me
to get him some shorthand books. His behavior was
good— he was placed to assist the warder at the front
gate of the gaol. Taking in a supply of meat from the
contracting butcher one morning, he suddenly turned,
threw pepper into the eyes of the warder, and bolted.
He was recaptured. A second time he bolted, a year or
so later ; was called upon to stop, but refused. There-
upon the warder coolly dropped on one knee and shot
him through the back. He fell dead on his face. In its
passage the bullet had passed through a packet of photo-
graphs he had in his breast, and, as shown to me after-
wards by the governor of the gaol, every one was tinged
with blood, for the bullet had gone through them. They
were portraits of his children.
It is reckoned that there are just now 900,0C0
male workers (a large number adults and heads of
families) unemployed in the United Kingdom.
ihe_ ever-increasing. U.S., German and other
foreign competition is the worst trouble, but the
disbanding of absent-minded beggars, and the
stoppage of the war demand for ships and all
of supplies, have also helped to make this
a bitter and terrible winter-time in Britain. And
meanwhile, for the gladdening of the British
workman, who sees more and more of the goods
f lu to ma,<e imported from the Land
ot the Wooden Ham, tilings like this constantly
appear m the English papers :
The cause of Cobdenism will not, says Public Opinion,
e assisted by the statement published a few days ago by
Mr. G. D. Kelly, secretary of Manchester Trades
council, as to his recent study of industrial conditions in
America. He goes so far as to say that in the U.S. wages
are in many cases double what they are in similar trades
in England, and this difference he attributes to the
operation of Protective tariffs. To what extent those
tariffs increase the cost of living, he does not appear to
show ; but, whilst he says that Protection enhances
wages by as much as 100 per cent, in certain trades, other
students are of opinion that 10 per cent, covers the in-
creased cost of living. If that be so, many wage-earners
are 90 per cent, better off in America than in England.
Mr. Kelly like a growing body of men who originally
believed that all economic truth centred in Cobden, ad-
mits that. experience is shaking his faith in the wisdom
of adhering unconditionally to “so-called Freetrade
principles.' In America, he found trade organisations
more perfect and in the enjoyment of greater liberty than
m England, and poverty, as we know poverty, is not as
obtrusive as it is in England.
+
(x. R. Sims remarks that there never can
archbishop, for the reason that an
ideal Christian worker would not accept the billet.
~ hit of people who suffer from a reverence for
churches and parsons ought to chew the fact that
no earnest follower of the Nazarene could consent
to become a highly-dignified pillar of any blessed
church. An archbishop is necessarily a satire on
his religion as far as it professes to be derived
from the New Testament.
A new book on “Self-Help” might be
written with this personal confession of a London
clerk to the Daily Mail as a text
When 16 years old I worked 10 hours a day in an office,
and another five hours at home learning German and
French. At 20 I was correspondence clerk at a salary of
£1 a week. To improve my position, I learnt two more
languages and made myself a walking encyclopaedia of
facts and figures. Net result: 30s. a week in my 25th
year. Then I did some home work to increase my income,
often slaving till the early morning hours, and at the age
of 30 was making £2 10s. a week. That was the largest
salary I ever earned, and upon the strength of it I
married. Now lam 55, and my present employers value
my services at £2 a week.
“ Quiz ” : T’other day I was on a Sydney
electric tram, travelling at limit-speed between
Bridge and Hunter-sts., when a fat, big-bingied
man waved frantically for tram to stop. Driver
picked him up and, turning to me, said : “ Ain’t it
sick’ning? Fancy ’im blocking me like that!”
“What did you pick him up for?” I queried.
“Is he a departmental man?” “Not much,”
the driver said. “ They ain’t got no bow-windows
on ’em like that in the department.” “Why?”
“ ’Cos they loses ’em chasin’ us poor chumps round
all day to see we earn our screws and don’t run
over drunks.”
TALL HAT.
rules the world with iron rod I —.
The person in the Tall Silk Hat.
He is its sordid lord and god —-
Self-centred in a Shrine of Fat.
He keeps the
Hoi Pol lot in
peace,
With opiates of
Kingdom
Gome :
His is the Glory
that is Grease,
The Grandeur
that is Bum.
ne sends the
nations foi t i
to fight,
The war - ships
grim across
the foam :
They battle for the right—ms right—
A mortgage over hearth and home.
He strokes his stomach with a hand
Bejewelled, and he scorns the poor ;
“One thing,” he says, “they understand—
Bouche va toujours — toujours, toujours.
“ The workman strikes —and starves, and dies
His widow on his doorstep be; s ;
I hear his children's bitter cries —
And calmly eat my ham-and-eggs.”
Let us, who are by Fate forbid
To live in rich, luxurious ease,
Thank Fate, or kindly God, who did
Not make us like these Pharisees,
SLOUCH HAT.
He had an iron
spoon at birth;
He was not born
to live in ease.
He is the Tiller
of the Earth —
He is the Toiler
of the Seas.
Down where the
sun is dim and
pale,
And grey seas
rave round icy
lands,
He battles through the bitter gale,
And takes in sail with bleeding hands.
In drawing-rooms he is not met,
With Governors he does not dine;
His feet are in the furrows set,
His lamp is shining in the mine.
Slouch Hat has sweat upon its band,
The sweat of one who toils to win
A crust by scouring sea and land —
While Tall Hat rakes the harvest in.
STRAW HAT.
Straiv Hat, when office
work is done,
Strolls down the
Block in Ugh 1-
soled shoon,
To add new lustre to
the sun,
Give reason for tl e
afternoon.
Straw Hat will al-
ways well behave,
For he is to the
fashion bred,
Tall Hat shcdl al-
ways have a slave
While people liie
who should be
dead.
V. J. DALEY.


HOW TO KEEP COOL.
We strongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condy’s
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath.
A Condy’s Fluid Bath imparts a most
delightful sensation of coolness, freshness
and purity, it invigorates the body and
braces the nerves. The strengthening and
cooling effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book
on bottle contains full directions.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists
throughout the British Empire. Beware
of substitutes. Insist on having “ Condy’s
Fluid.” * r £!ondy & Mitchell, of London,
England,-*are the only Makers and their
name and address is at foot of label.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratia.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Coitins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st, Sydney.
SPECTACLES
■
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, r.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
, .. ,_ . , dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT
By its use you can Test your own sight and del
termine for youjself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BAjtRACLOUGH. Optician,
385 Ceorge-st., Sydney formosite St, rnnH
Don’t shout”
" 1 hear you. 1 can hear now
as well as anybody. \
■ •How? 1 Oh some- \
thing new— The Wilson,
Common-sense Ear- v
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can'l see them
they're invisible. I woman
\ know I had them in mysel .
only that I hear all right. '
The Wilson Ear-Drunt'*
really a substitute for me
parts of the
natural ear. Has n°
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just comfortable " Totally
different from any other de-
%
v *c* Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CWAiHtBS. 229-281 CoUln* »»., M*!»L
POLITICAL
POINTS
A person of English extraction writes :
Noteworthy the number of Scotch names mixed up
with M'Kenzie in his recent smellful land grab. Scotch-
men, like wolves, hunt in packs, and where there is any-
thing to grab their scent is keen.
The last 12 months’ record of a goods-clerk
on N.S.W. railways : Regular hours, 8.15 a.m. to
6 p.m. ; back after tea to 9.30 p.m.; Saturdays,
8.15 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.,
and 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
A. J. Wilson, the wild-eyed stormy petrel
of English finance, who is now saying unpleasant
things about our stability, made himself similarly
disagreeable in ’92. And didn’t something or
other happen in ’93 ?
In M.L. recently the Arbitration Court
has upheld the Registrar’s refusal to register a
Firemen’s Industrial Union at Wellington, on the
ground that Seamen’s Unions are already in
existence there, and the men could join these.
Premier Jenkins (S.A.) has given up his
contemplated trip to England in the interests of
the Northern Territory Ninety Million-Acre Land
Steal Railway. Opposition leader John Darling,
however, sailed for the other side of the world
this week, and he will do all he can to secure the
“float.”
The syndicates are lying in wait in
Queensland. Electric tram rights in Rockhamp-
ton, Townsville and Charters Towers are three
steals contemplated. The middlemen of those
towns, with the Brisbane example before them,
should be electrocuted if they allow the deals to
come off.
According to the Journal of Maoriland
Department of Labor there are 3,393 men
employed on co-operative works in M.L., and the
outlook is such that Seddon promptly resumed two
big estates on which to settle these men when the
work is done. During the month 772 unemployed,
with 804 other people dependent upon them, were
assisted by the Govt. Only 38 were sent to
private employment, the other 713 being put on
to State works paid for out of loans.
One of the portions of Premier Barton's
last speech most carefully omitted in the Free-
trade daily paper • "'orts was the long list of
new factories that have been put up in and around
Sydney since the advent of the Federal Protective
tariff. They represented an expenditure of over
£1,000,000. The silence of the Sydney dailies on
this item was phenomenal. The great art of the
Sup-Press is to leave out all the strong parts of
your enemy’s speech, and then complain that the
speech is weak.
THE COLOR LINE.
WAITER : “ Vite soop, red bream, blue cod,
black duck.”
MISTER O'ROURKR : “ Bring me some grain
paies!”
Public demonstrations in Queensland
(the first for years) indicate the increasing unpop-
ularity of the Philp Government. The business
people, enraged at the income-tax, are joining
hands with the workers who are disgusted with
the poll-tax, and are raising a vast uproar. If an
election took place this year, the poll - taxers
would certainly go down amid universal execra-
tion.
Telegrams from Tasmania allege that
Premier Lewis is almost certain to go down be-
cause he imposed an income tax to square the
public accounts. Probably if he added the deficits
to the public debt he would come back with
a big majority. Philp, of Queensland, who sat
securely enough when he only added the shortages
to the public debt, is likely, also, to find his
Waterloo by reason of his income tax.
Westralian Senators Pearce and DeLargie
have drawn the attention of the Prime Minister
to the number of Asiatics finding admittance to
W.A. in spite of the Aliens Immigration Act.
During 11 months of 1902 no less than 786 Asiatics
entered the State The administration of the Act
in W.A, must be seriously at fault.
Melbourne Age, which is beginning to
repent of its Irvineism :
One can understand the impatience with which mem-
bers in the Labor Corner resent even the appearance of
delay in discharging this duty, because they have a
resentful recollection of a recent colleague of their own
who was expelled from Parliament FOR AN OFFENCE
NOT ONE-TWENTIETH AS DEGRADING AS THAT
COMMITTED BIT MR. M'KENZIE.
A new trial has been granted in the libel
action Griffith v. the Newcastle Herald. When
the application was before the Full Court, Mr.
Justice Prynnge argued and ‘ ‘ barneyed ” with
the applying counsel in a fashion which—con-
sidering the general public condemnation of his
attitude at the first trial —was not in the best of
taste.
Geo. Reid, at Adelaide Town Hall, “ona
Silitical question of the day ” : —“ Mr. Edmund
arton said‘No.’ The Ministry said ‘No.’ The
people said ‘No.” A voice—“ And you said
‘ YES-NO ’! ” Reid —“ And the funny thing is
I was right both times.” Such an interjection
right at the beginning of the harangue would
have knocked out anyone but the Wriggler.
A London correspondent to an Australian
Freetrade paper mourning over the crumbling
away of Cobdenism in the Cold Country:—
For the first time within my recollection or within the
scope of my reading, an British Government has entered
into a business and financial partnership with a private
firm, under which the latter is subsidised at the cost of
the taxpayer. The simple fact is that the British Govern-
ment is deliberately entering upon a policy of steamship
bounties, which, if persisted in, must eventually extend
to the whole of England’s mercantile marine.
George Reid made this luckless remark in
Westralia:
I believe that the public is more honestly, more equally,
reflected in the Government and in the politics of Aus-
tralia than in any other country in the world.
And the result of that honest and equal reflection
of the public in the Government of Australia is
that Barton, Kingston, O’Connor, Bill Lyne, and
George Turner run the show, while Reid plods
round the country with a futile yarn and a stale
joke and a dry dog.
The beginning of a Great Lie. Mr.
George Reid, in the Sydney D.T. on Monday
week:—
Some of the Acts of the Federal Parliament have pre-
disposed the British public to look rather sourly upon
Australia, and things Australian, at the present time. I
especially allude to the imprisonment of the six hatters.
It won’t take very long, at the present rate (“the
exclusion of the six hatters,” which was a false-
hood, has grown in a month or two to the “im-
prisonment of the six hatters,” which is a lie) for
the George Reid-DAiLY Telegraph version of the
hatters episode to state that the unfortunate men
were flogged and hanged, and their wives sold
into slavery. And that will be the Complete Lie,
and will be seriously believed by some. It’s not
Freetrade tactics to spring the Complete Lie on
the community suddenly, but to let it grow
gradually to its full height of mendacity.
Maoriland has set apart a special settle-
ment for its returned Cohentingenter, which is a
sensible and praiseworthy
method of dealing with
that enthusiastic, but not
too level-headed, person.
All the same, the Lord
High Jingo Seddon is
not going to make him a
present of the soil, so
that he can dispose
of it and have a
red and roaring time
on the proceeds,
and then come back
and camp once
more on the
Ministerial
doorstep. The
land, which is
situated in the
Auckland dis-
trict, has been
surveyed into
blocks of not more
than 320 acres each,
and is to be disposed
of by lease at a rental
of about 4 per cent, on
capital value. Improve-
ments worth 10 per cent, of
f the value of the land have to
be put on during the first
year ; another 10 per cent, worth
of improvements within two years.
Within six years, the permanent im-
provements erected must equal in value the
whole cost of the land. Also, the ex-Cohen-
tingenter has to reside on the selection, and
rear his family there, if he has any. Altogether,
the scheme seems carefully devised to anchor
down a troublesome mendicant at a safe distance
from the Treasury.
“Vul.” : A batch of Adelaide amateur
military—aw !—officah persons went out of their
way, t’other day, to show their contempt for the
common private fellah. The new staff-officer,
whilst conducting a class of instruction, requested
the officers to fall in with a squad of non-coms.,
but the superiah ones declined point-blank on the
ground that it was beneath their alleged dignity
to do so ; and on the instructor insisting, left the
ground. The amusing part of it is that, outside
the ranks, as often as not, the private is the boss,
and the superiah officah person is an inky-pawed
“menial” who follows him about with the ledger
and humbly says “ sir ” every two words. It may
surprise this box of tin-toy warriors to know that
even the ultra-superiah English officahs take their
place in the ranks for instruction in the elements
—otherwise, not knowing, how could they teach ?
The British Resident Commissioner in the
New Hebrides explains why it is dangerous for
many Kanakas now in Queensland to return to
their homes:—
A great many of the natives had left the villages on
account of having done something for which they
deserved punishment, and as these things are never
forgotten by the natives it would be awkward for these
men t'o return. _
In other words, the Commissioner _ state that
Queensland under the Kanaka system is the dump-
ing ground for Polynesian criminals.
It may be only the new-comer’s usual
“gallery” effort, but Victoria’s newest Larnds
Minister, J. W. Taverner, seems to be going into
the land settlement business with vim. Finding
nearly 1000 applications for land waiting m the
department he has determined to have 100, OUO
acres made available almost immediately, lnclud-
ing areas in the Mt. Fatigue, Fumma, and the
rich but heavily timbered Beach Forest districts.
Also, he proposes the sub-division of some 50,000
acres of “Blue Block” country between Hamilton
and Horsham (held under a grazing licence which
expires in June); but this is an item that does
not look too promising. Anyhow Taverner doesn t
share M‘Kenzie’s idea that the duty of a Lands
Minister is to get big areas for himself and his son.
The report of the Vic. Parliamentary com-
mittee in the M‘Kenzie case is a fine, unconscious
satire on the term “ adequate
rental,” as applied to grazing
areas. In one section of its report
the committee says:—
The block of 14,000 acres was put up
for tender, and Mr. M‘Kenzie’s tender of
£5 per annum was accepted. Adjoining
this 14,000-acre block was another block
of Crown lands, containing about 7300
acres. . . . On Bth Sept., 1902, Mr.
M'Kenzie offered £5 for a grazing license
from Ist Sept., 1902, to 30th June, 1903,
and two days later the offer was ac-
cepted. On 10th Sept, Mr. M‘Kenzie
definitely instructed his agents to dispose
of his grazing rights in both the 14,000-
acre block and and 7300-acre block. . . .
He did sub-let the united blocks to Mr.
Hugh Ross at a profit of nearly £lOOO.
Then, in their conclusions from the
evidence, the committee “ acquits
Mr. M‘Kenzie of obtaining any
grazing license for himself or for
any relativeat an inadequate rental.”
The land he licensed for £5 per
annum for two-thirds of it, and £5 per half-
year for the remaining one-third of it, was
sub let to Mr. Ross at £lOOO for 10 months. Yet
he had not obtained those blocks at an inadequate
rental l
The famous Cloncurry syndicate line that
was to revolutionise the Gulf country, turn Nor-
manton into a flourishing seaport, and make
Cloncurry into a busy mining town of 10,000 in-
habitants, still hangs fire. It hangs just as do
the Tasmanian Great Western railway, and
Snow’s Adelaide trams, and the other works of
Private Enterprise in general. The time for the
forfeiture of the Cloncurry syndicate's =£lo,ooo
deposit is rapidly approaching, and the Philp
Government said it would forfeit with Roman
sternness if the syndicate didn’t keep faith.
A curious sequel to the closing of the
Bowen (Q.) railway on the ground that it didn’t
pay working expenses is the application of a
station-master and an engine-fitter, formerly em-
ployed on the line, to lease the whole outfit and
run a fair service. The terms are not yet dis-
closed, but the applicants are willing to take over
the present rolling-stock, charge the same old
rates, and to keep the line in repair. They are
said to be highly qualified officers, and they know
the line thoroughly, so evidently they reckon that
it can be made to pay—if there is any serious
desire that it should pay.
Speaking at Melbourne, t’other night, G.
H. Reid stated that he had seen a newspaper
ad. wherein someone offered £lOO for a billet in
that city. This as an instance of the scarcity of
work there. Responding to an interjector, George
said the man must have come from N.S. W., where
he could save £lOO. But the ordinary man would
have stayed in N.S.W., where he had saved the
£lOO, and make another £lOO, instead of trying to
“blew” it on a presumably unremunerative job
in bankrupt Victoria. If, as Reid asserts, a
N.S.W. man will give £lOO to get to Victoria,
what has happened to N.S.W.?
Sydney D.T. (which, it is well to re-
member, assisted to drive George Reid from
office in N.S.W., on the ground of his political
dishonesty, when Bill Lyne and Randal Carey
were such dear friends) now solemnly lectures, in
the blessed name of political morality, Labor
leader Watson for suggesting that it is “bad
tactics’’for Mr. Reid to raise the tariff issue at
next Federal elections. Mr. Reid, the D.T. says,
is too noble a man to consider tactics as against
principles, and the D.T. says it is too noble a
paper to countenance such a thing. The humor
of this needs no explanation.
The pamphlet of the Jenkins land grant
railway makes big statements as to the possi-
bilities of the Northern Territory. It has 30 good
rivers, one has some codfish in it, still another
some perch, and all have grass in them, if nothing
else. There are also to be found several creeks,
and also some coal. Diamonds of untold worth
are somewhere about, and gold is rich—simply
rich —in Macdonnell ranges. In addition, there
are said to be emus, cockatoos, an occasional
kangaroo and wallaby, and quite a profusion
of native dogs, rabbits, locusts, and snakes. The
Northern Territory has never had such a “lift”
in its life before.
N.S.W. Full Court has decided that, in
spite of section 32 of the Industrial Arbitration
Act (that section says in effect that there shall be
absolutely no appeal from the Arbitration Court),
it has power to prohibit the Arbitration Court on
appeal. The Bulletin recollects an A.W.U.
correspondent feeling very scornful towards this
paper for maintaining what the Full Court has
now declared. It’s a very difficult thing to
establish a court of absolute and unchallengeable
jurisdiction : there are so many constitutional unfl.
legal obstacles. A Parliament may pride itself
on the fact that it has done so, but generally finds-
that it has made a mistake.
Lascelles, the Mallee boomster, has a.
grievance against Vic. railway department because
it won’t carry seed-wheat for his distressed
cookies gratis. According to Lascelles, it is no
wonder the railways don’t pay, when the managers
are not previous enough to realise what a great
increase of traffic the seed-wheat would bring the
railways in from next year’s crop, and how it would
pay well for the concession. But the trouble is that
the agriculturist has already got the wheat rate
down below paying point, and the joy of carrying
seed for nothing this year, in order that there
may be more wheat to carry at a loss next year,
doesn’t appeal to a department that is always
being asked why it can’t make the lines pay.
The officers of the Vic. railways are making
gallant efforts to carry out Bent’s 5-days-a-week
scheme. This is one locomotive man’s time for a
recent week:—Monday, 13 hours; Tuesday, 13
hours; Wednesday, 22$ hours ; Thursday, 9
hours; Friday, the day off ; Saturday, 13 hours.
The system that compels engine-men to work 22$
hours out of the 24 in order that one day a week
may be shown in the time-books as “off-duty”
opens up a lot of chances for the travelling public.
Apart from considerations of public safety, the
TRYING TO GET UP ANOTHER WAR.
“For all these years since the outbreak of the
Yukon field America has remained in possession of
the disputed ground.”— Melb. ARGUS.
callousness of the Bent order of things might be
worthy the serious attention of, say, the Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. The
men don’t feel that they are entitled to claim any
higher protection under present conditions.
“ Chasselas ” : Noteworthy in Vic. the
number of electors who favor the abolition of the
State Parliament. It a vote were taken that
unsatisfactory institution would probably go by
the board. Naturally in this matter the people
are ahead of politicians and newspapers.
Suggested in some quarters that the pre-
sent unrest in Morocco is primarily due to an idea
among the Moors that the time is ripe now for a
movement to reconquer Spain. Great Moorish
families still cherish the title-deeds of the pro-
perties in Spain from which religious bigotry drove
them 400 years ago.
G. H. Reid, who obediently yelled in
chorus with the foreign importers over the case
of the imported hatters, is now trimming thereon
in his best yes-no style. Federal Labor leader
Watson has publicly demanded that George will
give a straight reply to three straight questions:
(1) Does he, or does he not, object to the clause in the
Immigration Restriction Bill relating to the importation
of contract labor ?
(2) If he does, why did he not say so at the time, and not
allow the clause to go through Parliament with Pumpkin
Smith’s blessing, which was the only criticism his party
bestowed upon it?
> (3) If he does not, what is he kicking up all the row
about ?
To this challenge Reid now says that he warmly
approves of the law in question, which is a very
nasty knock to the Freetrade press. All he objects
to is the fact that the Barton Government en-
forced the law.
One member's contribution to the recent
land debate in Yic. Assembly:—
“ One selector might get 50,000 acres that won’t carry
1000 sheep to the acre.” Members laughed. “What I
meant,” resumed the hon. member, “ is that one man
might get 5000 acres that won’t carry even 5000 sheep to
the acre." The laughter became louder. “I meant to
say," again resumed Mr. Thomson, “ that one man might
get 50,000 acres that won’t carry 1000 sheep, while another
man might get a block that won’t carry 5000 sheep to
5000 sheep.”
Then he stopped just at the most interesting
point. If he had continued he might have ex-
plained that 5000 selectors might get one sheep
that couldn’t carry an acre to the selector; and
that 5000 acres might be owned by a selector who
couldn’t carry one acre to a sheep; and that a
man with 50,000 acres might have a sheep that
couldn’t carry a selector to the public-house ; and
so on indefinitely.
G. H. Reid, at Melbourne ;
I have a dim recollection that I brought the Federation
movement down from the clouds, and enabled the people
to deal with it as a matter that directly concerned them-
selves.
Probably ’twas George’s modesty that prevented
him from mentioning the politician who shackled
the aforesaid movement with the 80,000 minimum,
and then “laid it out” with a “Yes-No ’’under
the ear. And doubtless it would have been
unbecoming in him to even allude to the cost and
vexation of the second referendum, entailed by the
above circumstances; or to the fact that he got
the proviso inserted that the capital must be at
least 100 miles from Sydney ; or to the faot that
he procured the rejection of the measure at first
by reason of the Braddon clause, and then pro-
cured its re-insertion. Even the owner of the
Unwetted Fiscal Dog hadn’t the impudence to
re-call the whole story.


15he
STEINWAY
PIANO
Used by Royalty.
*
SOLE.
AGENTS
Palings.
Sfte STEINWAY PIANO * *
Is beyond question tbe Best Piano tbat
Has ever been manufactured.
It is tbe outcome of brains, energy,
and mechanical sKill of tbe Highest
order.
Tbe Steinway Patents produce re-
markably pure tone quality, great
delicacy of toucb, and extreme dura-
bility.
It is tbe most expensive Piano made,
but then—lT'S THE BEST.
No further argument needed.
Catalogues and Price Cists Free.
Old Pianos taken in Exchange.
W. H. PALING (a CO., Ltd
338 George Street, Sydney,
Brisbane and Newcastle,
■ INDIGESTION AND DEBILITY
CURED BY
VITADATIO
— —
New Plymouth,
11th October, 1901.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Sir,—Being a sufferer from indigestion and debility I
was recommended to try VITADATIO. Since taking a
few bottles I have thoroughly regained my strength, and
have much pleasure in forwarding you this Testimonial.
C. BENFETT,
Leech-street, New Plymouth,
For further particulars,
S. A, PALMER,
184: Vitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write tor Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS
with AA marks
PATENT
RUBBER
FEET and
HANDS
ARE THE BEST
PROCURABLE.
Sole Agents and Manufacturers :
DENYER BROTHERS
281 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY,
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Catalogues and Prices on application.
Glorious Rains at Last!
More Hopeful Prospects.
that the Drought really appears to have broken,
mid prospects seem more hopeful, you will feel
trifelined to invest in a . .
WATERPROOF or OILSKIN COAT!
In which case, post your orders to
CHARLES GILBERT,
The Specialist In Men’s Wear . .
Queen Street, Brisbane,
Whose values in these goods are notoriously the best in
the Commonwealth. All Coats guaranteed Waterproof,
with sewn and taped seams at 215., 255., 30s. to 50s.
Oilskins, 15s. 6d., 17s. 6d., 225. 6d. (leather-bound and
double-lined ) Carriage paid to any address. Send a
Trial Order to-day for anything in Men’s Wear.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
'TIIK Bh'ST FOR ALL AFFECTIONS OF THE THROAT.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M. P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288. 82 KIIMG-ST., SYDNEY.
Lately a Victorian railway employee was
charged with stealing-four biscuits, valued at a
penny, from a case in the goods shed, and was
fined .£lO. The same day another railway man
was charged with stealing five ofcandles,
valued at half-a-crown, from the same place, and
fined £5.
The Westralian postmaster who shook the
infernal machine that almost immediately after-
wards blew Mr. Lowmes’ arm off had heaps of
luck. When Lownes got hold of the thing he
could not get the top off the case, and pulled it
with all his strength. When it did give, the
movement fired the cap. and the dreadful thing
blew up. The miscreant who sent it was evidently
brought up on the cheap and lurid melodrama.
The machine was wrapped in a newspaper con-
taining a gore-and-yell yarn entitled “Guilty or
Not Guilty,” and the hunk of the yarn that still
adhered seemed to have some significance. It
ran so:
Desperate diseases require desperate remedies, and you
are the man I have pitched upon. Either make or un-
make yourself. It has employed my invention for some
time to find out a method to destroy another without
exposing my own life and deify the law.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
The comments of J udge Docker, at Par-
ramatta (N.S. W.) Quarter Sessions recently, on the
moral depravity of the qpuntry, seem to have been
warranted in the case referred to at any rate. A
young man, 18 years of age, was charged with
indecent assault on a girl of 13. Evidence re-
vealed a shocking state of brothers and sisters
sleeping together in one room ; while the assaulted
one abode in another room with her parents.
There wasn’t a “drawing-room ” in the house, yet
there was a piano. Altogether an absence of
moral ideals pervaded everything, Medical evi-
dence suggested that the girl was rather in the
habit of being assaulted than otherwise. The
strange mixture of squalor, neglect, moral ignor-
ance and piano seem to show that a musical instru-
ment is no remedy for a soul diseased. The
accused was sent “forward” for six months to
reflect and become wiser.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Some statements made in the Victorian
Assembly about the State’s wonderful railways:—
Fifty of the 350 engines on the roads were not fit to be
in running. Day after day engines were hours late in
being brought out of the sheds, owing to their crippled
condition ; and on one day there was not a passenger
locomotive in fit order to take a train out of Melbourne.
The department was, therefore, forced to use goods
engines. Two engines had to be used to take a train to
Bendigo, and were put in the repairing sheds immediately
they got there. Two other engines had to be employed
to bring the train back, and they also had to be laid up
as soon as they reached Melbourne. In one case two bags
of bran ha!d to be put into the boiler to close up the leaky
pipes ; while in another instance it was found on a journey
that the wheel of an engine was loose.
It was Labor member Prendergast who drew this
picture, but Railway Minister Bent put the
finishing touches to it by. admitting that, out of
]the State’s 544 locomotives, only 354 were fit to be
bn the road. And the inopportune Shiels has just
annexed a large part of the Railway Accident
Fund, which looks as if it might be badly wanted
soon.
™ CALLAGHAN SHOE
BY POST
/ to any address
1 in these States
Another
Lady’s
Opinion
about
Callaghan
Shoes.
NO RISK IN FIT
WEAR A LONG TIME
*
YOU CAN’T DO BETTER
“ Messrs. CALLAGHAN & SON.
way
“Dear Sirs, —Enclosed please find cheque for
£ll3s. 2d., amount due for shoes, which are in every
satisfactory.
"5.5.8., Walcha Road.”
12/11,
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
13 6
/"AMERICAN GLACE KID SHOE for
{ LADIES, with Dressy Patent Leather
and new fashioned Collarette.
Please remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note with order.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st„ Sydney.


Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3ST.S.W-.
fl]ontdepieteo.»M|.Co-,Ltd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
§74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
■ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT. General Manager.
-THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
flon. 3 F Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robirts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruck Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870
Policies issued 88.299-assunng £26,826,350.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction a* to
\ravelling. Liberal Bonuses— eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
fhe Bank of north Queensland
t.iMITKD.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J P Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... - - * 7W - 000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Sha, ‘~ »<noQ ttSSO.MO
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
oapitat PAID-UP .. .. •• *456,9-/
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 176,239
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,wu
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edwd. D. Dat. Asst Mnsr. W.B. Auord
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondent*
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting jjompg.
™ (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TJUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
tor Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland the Branch
Office, 64 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
The savings bank
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 4.V per cent, in sums of £5OO I to £ l s - on . ™
Properties ; and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yearly.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at H per cent, for 31i years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspeet-or-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
nir.-'tors— Sydney : Hon. A. W. Mb.bks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. Jons Sbb, LL-Col. Burns (Burns,
Phifp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Esq.
Manors: Melbourne, D. Clysb ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Uilsos; Perth, A. \>.
Farouhar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
r arquuar. w. ii.nAut 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Amountof Capital payable by Shareholders
2,000,000
600,000
Total Capital - .. £2,600.00°
The trustees, executors
Am
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st, Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP A 90.000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) . i, 4
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWM AN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
Our
No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
a the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in-connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Cas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
,-y-,« ,tipns on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street.
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
SUpplng.
3XT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦ r P ivi n _ or* rp vp
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIN, Ist APRIL.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney^
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,OOO*ton Steamers.
PERSIC to Sail on or about 20th MARCH.
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC,
to follow.*
FABES— Capetown
London
New York, <fec.
£l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 27 0 0
25 2 6 to S 3 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlet*, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
agents.
Huddart, Parker & C°’s D ine
MRI.BWTHNK,
LAUNCRSTON,
HORAUT,
WEST AUSTKAMA,
NEW ZKALAND POU'liN
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
AMD
LINE
A
via
San Francisco,
California.
FASTEST AND BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
Bailie of New South T Vales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability ..
Total
„ 2,000,000 0 0
.. 1,300,000 0 0
... 2,000,000 0 0
.. 5,300,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackbllar, H.L.0., Presiden-
The Hon. Sir Norm and MacLaurin, Kt, M.UU.
Senator James Thomas Walkbr.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cotter, Esq.
Richard Bixxik, Esq.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Other, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
aid invests money on their behalf in
a the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
of credit, and conducts all customary
on debentures; a
public securities ii
takes the agency
notes and letters
banking business. . , .
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
For Sale.
NORTH WEST COAST.
mHE VAX DIEMEN’S LAND COMPANY is prepared to
-*■ receive tenders for the renting of portions of their
estates situated at the Surrey Hills and to let parts of the
Hampshire Hills, and farms near Burnie.
The lands consist of rich basaltic soil, well-grassed and
timbered, and abundantly watered by numerous per-
manent rivers and streams.
The Surrey Hills Block, extending to 150,000 acres, has
late'y been re-surveved and divided into 11 Blocks vary-
ing in extent from 2000 to 24,000 acres, to suit the re-
quirements of those tendering.
The Hampshire Hills Block (10,000 acres) will also
shortly be surveyed, and will be dealt with in smaller
'°The lands are very favorably situated and are served
by direct railway communication with the Port of Bumie
whence there is "a regular Intercolonial Steam Service.
This railway passes through the full extent of the
lands to be let and provides ready means for the trans-
port of cattle and goods to Mount Bischoff, Zeehan, and
the Western Mineral Fields.
It can also be arranged to let, if desired, smalleruleared
farms near the Coast, or houses to suit requirements
would be built in or near Burnie.
TENDERS FOR LEASES OF THE
SURREY HILLS RUNS
for a term of seven years from the 31st March, 1903, will
be received on or before the 14th March.
Full particulars as to conditions of lease, etc., may be
obtained at the offices of the VAN DIEMEN’S LAND
COMPANY, BURNIE, TASMANIA, where a plan of the
property may be seen. ' ....
Applicants may tender for all or any number of the
runs stipulating that only one or more of their tenders
may be accepted.
The highest or any tender may not necessarily be
accepted,
Bv order of the Court of Directors,
A. K. McGAW, Manager
, Burme, Ist February, 1903.
RARE.
BOOKS
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN.
2 -
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box 116 PARIS.
Missing Friends.
IF this should meet the eyeof ANDY MILLOX,
who left Taihape, North Island, New
Zealand, some 6 years ago, or any friend
knowing his whereabouts, would he or they kindly
communicate with the undersigned, who will
supply new 6 of beneficial character.
G. N. JENSEN,
Taihape,
North Island, New Zealand.
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA \
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand. -
R.M.S.
VENTURA
SIERRA
SONOMA
Sydney. Auckland. S. F’cisco. London,
March
March
April
March 6-March 23
March 27 April 13
April 17,May 4
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCtCANXC STKA3ISUIH VO.. J TD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Prrr asd Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
w ALL-RED ” ROUTE.
Miowera, March 23.
Aorangi, April 20.
Moana, May 18.
British Built Ships on Pacific and
Atlantic.
CROSSING BRITISH POSSESSIONS IN
AMERICA.
CHEAPEST ROUTE TO LONDON.
i
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing: Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passengei Agent.
Medical.
WEAK EYES—RESULTING FROM
DUST, SUNGLARE, OVERWORK, &c.,
Cured by
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Free for Asking:.
WRITE to us an<i we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice’ it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like mastic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to G. Spbctfic, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.
Hygienic UJater filters
AVOID TYPHOID, ILL-HEALTH, and DISEASE
BY USINO OCR
Hygienic Water Filters
With Rubber Attachment to fit any Top.
THE CHARCOAL AND SILEX
which these Filters contain is the very
Best Water Purifier Known to Scientists as it
Removes all Cerms and other Impurities.
When ordering mention size of tap in use.
PP.ICF.: LARGE A <-. MEDIUM Qe POST
X'V' SIZE, SIZE, PAID.
Agent- QUEENSLAND : ARTHUR BRAY,
92 EAGLE ST.. BRISBANE.
Agent-TASMANIA : WERTHEIMER, BENJAMIN and
ANDERSON, HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Agent—SOUTH AUSTRALIA : AUSTRALIAN TRADING
AGENCY. GENDERS BUILDING, ADELAIDE.
Agent—N.S.W. : ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS-
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON i; CO., SYDNEY,
and all Hardware and Ironmongery Stores.
If not obtainable at your Storekeeper, send to
Sole Agent, Australasia,
J* LANDES, 108 Pitt St., Sydney.
At Dawn and Dnsk:
By * J- Balky. In handsome doth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIM(TK!>).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE '
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Tramshippingrat Fremantle
to al! North Western Ports
8,3. Warrego,
Friday, February 27
(To Melbourne Only)
S.S. Marioo,
Saturday, February 28
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Oalrna
I
5.3. Allinga, Frid., Feb. 27.
8.8. Warrego, Sat., March 7.
S.S. Rockton, Sat., March 14.
Heat and Cheapeat Ifoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL. & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P AND O COMPANY’S
* ■ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
A. GORDON WESCIIE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6300 tons, under Postal Con<raet with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUi N'E, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows: -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombav, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every asiistano*
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc. and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between inter-
state Ports are available lor return by P- and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company odices,
Queen's Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
•Does not call at Port Darwin.
These steamers specially built for the Eastern passenger
trade are fitted with EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR
TROPICAL TRAVELLING. The Saloon Cabins con-
taining two berths only are all on UPPER DECK AMID-
SHIPS, and are large, «x>l, and fitted with Electric ians.
Through bookings at special rates to Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN 5.3. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT A CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fNLORODYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, Ax, bears on
the Government Sunup the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 2S, 1305, says:
- If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to 0
most generally useful, to the exclusion of a
others, I should say Chloeodynk. I never trave
without it, and its general applicability to
relief of a large number simple ailments torn
its best recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL HAIR I
Naturally Curly Fringes. f?6d to 3-Os-each.
Hair Tails. os Sd to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair ana
T&ilSy w w w tteV
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you mnt.
Hva.a Hair of-every Description in Stock. .
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing L
Every for Saloox Csb is Stock.
Uainlressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CRAIGr & AITKBN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney
GENTS.
Adduks* .
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
-L.D.1.. 300 Collins St., Melbourn


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
The newly-enfranchised women voters of
N.S.W. should read The Bulletin’s “ A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond.
Post free from Bulletin office for 7d.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYFLASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
ISi EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
©
©
©
@
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
General Electric
>
Incandescent Lamps.
THE EDISON LAHIP #bs#l,lte, »
THE BEST!
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750
were purchased by the Melb.
City Council.
LONG LIFE. HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
mm ELECTRIC CO.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Melbourne and Sydney.
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, etc.,
also in Stock.
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
@
ENO’S
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.. ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
toy J. C. ENO’S Patent.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Cornei” of
Olarenco Street)
19, 21, 23 EZizig Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES ...
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Purr.ps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, eto.
1
Use
That Bald Patch will get larger
if you don’t do something.
GAPILLA HAIR TONIC.
All Chemists, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs * Helidcii. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
Some Aspects of the Tariff Issue.
The cause of Protection would have no reason to
fear the result of an acceptance of the flamboyant
challenge of George Reid to make the tariff
the issue at the next Federal elections. What
measure of Protection exists now, exists despite
bitterly unpatriotic efforts of the Freetraders, and
largely because of the financial exigencies of the
Commonwealth. A Reid Government could only
interfere with it to a very slight extent, and, in
e , V , en f of ._ sucl > a Political calamity as Reid
rule, the tariff would be, at the worst, modified a
httle m the direction of favoring the foreigner
and throwing our native laborers to sand-hill re-
On tuI 01 t| S a 'k d soup-kitchens for maintenance.
On the other hand a straight fight over the tariff
issue—at the last elections there was no such
dominant issue, the Protectionists making them-
selves a party to an understanding that the
fisca issue should be the subject of a com) omise
for the sake of more securely laying the founda-
tions of the Commonwealth system of legislation
could hardly result in anything else than such a
decisive declaration in favor of a national policy
as would justify the Government in improving
and strengthening the existing barriers against
the products of foreign labor. It is, however
unfortunately, not at all a matter of certainty that
a direct contest on the high tariff v. low tariff
issue will be secured. There is a possibility, if
not a probability, that the existing Barton
Government, or whatever modification of it leads
the National party, will confuse the issue
with the question of preferential trade with
Britain. It is only from the linking of such
a proposal with high-tariff advocacy that
Protectionists have to fear. Without much
doubt the majority of the National Protection
party views the suggestion to make gratuitous
tariff concessions to Britain with disfavor. The
conclusion of a reciprocity treaty, if Britain
had adopted Protection, would probably be advis-
able. The granting to our most formidable
manufacturing rival of Freetrade privileges, or
concessions tending thereto, for no return at all,
would be an absolute negation of Protection. The
Barton Government, or whatever combination
succeeds the Barton Government when the
almost certain reorganisation of the Cabinet takes
place, may wreck the cause of Protection, and
help to power the mongrel “low-tariff” system
suggested by Mr. Yes-No Reid, by adding to the
Australian National platform an absurd and con-
tradictory proposal for fostering English manu-
factures at the expense of Australian labor. But,
failing that event, a tariff contest will surely
affirm high Protection.
• • • *
The present tariff, it cannot be too often pointed
out, does not provide high Protection. YVhat
Australia needs is a practica ly prohibitive tariff
on the lines of the M’Kinley 'Act in the U.S., a
taritr which will protect every industry from shoe-
making to pin-manufacture, from locomotive con-
struction to glass-moulding, that is reasonably
possible of success. Australia, with large coal,
iron, copper and other metal resources, but
with, on the whole, poor agricultural prospects, is
marked out by Nature for a manufacturing
country; and her rulers, by involving her deeply in
debt, have assisted to make the manufacturing road
the only one to prosperity, indeed the only one to
avoid ultimate bankruptcy. The Commonwealth
is in the position of a community with a vast
and varied estate, but under the burden of an
enormous mortgage. It must, to struggle back
to solvency, decide to make for itself —even if at
the expense of some unnecessary labor, and at the
sacrifice of some beauty of style in the product—
all or nearly all that it requires. A poor rack-
rented tenant finds it necessary to get his children
to be bootmakers, tailors, blacksmiths, and so on,
for the family, at the cost of much effort, and at
the loss of much elegance, simply because he
cannot afford to pay outsiders the money fordoing
the work. Australia is practically in that posi-
tion, and as a matter of self-preservation, let
alone of ultimately securing prosperity, must
decide very soon to live a self-contained life, to
make for herself practically all that she needs,
and to do without what she cannot produce
within her own borders by her own labor. The
way to that consummation is by a prohibitive
tariff —a system of Protection such as that which
has made the United States tho greatest country
of modern civilisation.
• * • •
The present Federal tariff falls very much short
of that. It fails to protect sufficiently the great
iron industries which could give employment to
at least 100,000 wage-earners in the Common-
wealth; it palters with the question of nurturing
into existence textile industries and still allows
not only the cottons but the woollen goods of the
people to be manufactured abroad; printing,
furniture-making, shoe-making, glass-working,
shipbuilding, carriage-making, the marino
transport trade all these as yet lack
efficient and thorough Protection. No
printed matter, iron goods (except a few
patented articles), textile fabrics, shoes, furniture,
glass-ware, or pottery should come into the
Commonwealth from abroad, except to gratify
some few faddists willing to pay dearly for
the privilege of importing. No carriage
between Australian ports should be allowed l y
vessels not wholly owned and manned in Austral-
asia, and, ultimately, by vessels not built in
Australia. Australian banking and insurance
institutions should be protected against the
competition of concerns owned outside. Pro-
ceeding further, by adequate protective legis-
lation in regard to patents and copyrights
such as exists in Germany and America, a
fair share could be secured for Australia of the
work in connection with the manufacture of
patented articles and the production of copyright
wxiks. . Adequate, scientific, comprehensive
Protection would provide for all that, and
m doing so not only add enormously to the
population and tax-paying ability of Australia,
but also make the task of meeting our oppressive
loans easy, by allowing practically all our exports
of staples to be devoted to the payment of interest
and principal, instead of, as now, being largely
absorbed in payment for goods which we could
manufacture ourselves,
• • • *
Such a system of National Protection only needs
properly expounded and championed by
public men to find ready and general acceptance
by all classes of the Australian community, except
that small section of linen-drapery soul and foreign
sympathies which gets its living by importing.
Put Protection has always in Australia lacked
adequate political and press championship. Our
public men have generally been bound more or
less to England, and consequently to the
English Freetrade fetish. Even so-called Protec-
tionist politicians, from lack of knowledge, from
enslavement to some paltry need of the moment,
from want of courage or from foreign sympathy—
or from a combination of all or some of these—
have, as a rule, been bad Nationalists. To cite
an instance: If in N.S. Wales there should be a
genuine Protectionist in politics, it is E. W
O Sullivan, at present Minister for Works. He
has climbed into prominence as an apostle of Pro-
tection and of high wages. Protection, and Pro-
tection alone, has given him political life. Yet at
a recent test of the genuineness of his faith, he
was guilty of a shameful desertion. For the new
reservoir for the Sydney water-works, construction
of which has just been put in hand, 75,000 barrels
of cement were required. The Federal Govern-
ment, to protect the Australian cement industry,
to allow here the payment of a high rate of
wages, imposed a protective duty of 2s. 6d. a
barrel on this article. When tenders were opened
for the supply of 75,000 barrels—the production
of which would have found employment for along
term for many hundreds of workers —local manu-
facturers offered at 12s. 6d. a barrel, the foreigners
at 13s. By the curious arrangements under the
Braddox clause of the Australian Constitution, of
the 2s. 6d. duty paid on the foreign importation,
three-fourths (Is. 10£d.) would go back to the
State revenue of N.S. Wales. Mr. O’Sullivan
proposed to purchase the whole supply from the
foreigner (out of loan money, by the way—the re-
bate in duty would, however, go to revenue), and it
was only’ in response to indignant representations
by the Chamber of Manufacturers that he modified
that intention and split up the order so that 25,000
barrels went to each of two local manufacturers
and 25,000 to the foreigner. The loss of wages to
the N.S.W. workers by this action of a so-called
Protectionist Minister was at least £lO,OOO. Had
he carried out his original plan, it would have
been at least £30,000. And the advantage to be
gained by this betrayal of Protection was, pre-
sumably, that of indirectly securing a certain
amount of loan-money for the current revenue
account. It was only by threats of a public agita-
tion that Mr. O’Sullivan was induced to abandon
his original intention of giving the whole order to
the foreigner, at a time when the clamor of the
unemployed filled the air and the Minister was
posing as the sincere friend of the workers.
* • • •
When in a matter of administration a so-called
Protectionist can thus seek to go behind the back
of the Australian Parliament, and nullify the
arrangements it has made for the Protection
of the Australian worker from the cheap
foreign laborer, it is clear that the National cause
needs to be on guard against secret as well as open
foes. But Protection will one day find in Aus-
tralia its M ‘Kinley ; Nature has clearly intended —
and political circumstances have strengthened the
intention—that Australia should commit itsdestiny
to a career as a great manufacturing country.
When a sincere, earnest and able politician recog-
nises that, and makes a prohibitive tariff the aim
of his public life, he will win lasting power for
himself and lasting prosperity for his country. It
is only the treacheries, the weaknesses and the
ignorance of so-called “Protectionist” politicians
that have allowed the Freetrade idea to survive to
this century in Australia.


FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
A Parson’s Gratitude To His Doctor.
A good deed deserves thanks. If the deed is
one that has been of great help, one that has
rescued a man from imminent danger, then the
thanks should be of an overwhelming nature.
Gratitude for a service rendered shows appre-
ciation for it, and is moreover edifying to those
who have performed the deed. The Rev, T. B.
Swift, a well-known and highly respected reverend
gentleman, of Alexandra, Vic., has just expressed
himself in glowing terms for the great goodness
that has befallen him. For a longtime he suffered
all the agonies that constipation and indigestion
bring in their train. He long sought a cure for
the pain that tormented him, and although he
tried high and low for a remedy, none was forth-
coming At last, almost as though by the work-
ing of Providence, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
were brought to his notice. Then, and not till
then, did he recover his health and with it his best
joy and happiness. So pleased was he with his
complete cure, that he wrote to the proprietors at
once, wishing them to publish broadcast the good
news, in order that others might be similarly
benefited. “I am now in my eighty-first year,”
he says, “ and for 52 years I have preached the
Gospel. For years I suffered from constipation
and indigestion, and it was not until recently,
when Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills were brought
to my notice, that I obtained the slightest relief
for my pain. Bv taking the pills regularly I
became relieved of my ailments, and my bowels
now work with the regularity of clockwork. The
pills I have found assist nature, increase the
appetite, produce sound sleep, and' give elasticity
of spirits. I am now in perfect health, thanks
solely to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.” AVhat
other remedy can produce such sound and reliable
evidence? t)r. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
perfect blood pmrifier, and a positi%’e cure for
biliousness, indigestion, constipation, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples boils and blotches, and for female
ailments. Put up in amber bottles and the full
name blown thereon.*
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Caulfield Futurity Stakes provided a new sen-
sation in bumping finishes. After Wakeful, the odds-on
favorite, had been apparently outpaced, the gay colors of
Emir, Sir Leonard, and Chantress were seen to be bunched
at the head of the field. Emir ran next to the rails. Sir
Leonard and Chantress were jostling together on the out-
side of the plucky two-year-old. Some 50yds from home
Emir got knocked out of his stride, and as the other two
strugglers passed him, a small boy fell out of the saddle.
It was Emir’s five stone pilot who had dropped like a
parcel on to the course. Meanwhile, Sir Leonard was
Seating Chantress by a neck, with Wakeful and the
riderless Emir three lengths behind them. In the hurly-
burly Chantress must have got her face jammed, smacked,
or what not, for she returned to the paddock bleeding
slightly at the mouth. Hence the protest against Sir
Leonard, which was dismissed.
• » • •
The Futurity Stakes result suggests that if Sir
Leonard and Chantress could show such a marked
improvement on their recent “ form,” other Newmarket
candidates may be expected to do likewise. There is no
“ real good thing ” with an undeniable claim to favoritism
for this year’s Newmarket. Chantress is a beautiful little
mare—the very cut of a Caulfield Cup winner—but over
the straight 6 furlongs at Flemington the longer-striding
Sir Leonard is likely to beat her again. And Sir Leonard
is no cert, with 9.8 to steady him. Purser looks none
the better for the fact that Wakeful, who beat
him on the previous Saturday, was vanquished in
the Futurity. Dulcimer’s chance has lost a little
of its “ papier’’-weight now that the Oakleigh Plate
running is known to have been even less genuine than it
appeared at the time. Present scribe believes in what
he has seen as regards Sir Leonard and Chantress, and
is impressed by what he has heard re Maharani, Tip Top
and Drawbridge. Preferring those five fancies to Purser,
Dulcimer, and several others, he guesses wildly at
1. Maharani
2. Sir Lrosard
3. Tip Top
4. Chantress.
One must guess at something, although anything may
win.
• • • •
As for the Australian Cup, it promises at time
Of writing to be a sufficiently interesting race. Among
the older horses Flagship, Footbolt, Australian,_ Vanity
Fair, Patronus, Acrasia, and Dulcimer are “in” it. The
St. Leger on Saturday should convey a notion as to the
relative strength of Abundance, Great Scot and Rienzi.
One of the 3-year-olds will probably win the Cup next
Tuesday—say Great Scot.
• • • •
Kiota, if he keeps well, will have very little to
beat over the big sticks at Flemington. The jumping
events don’t promise to be good sport, but the w.f.a.
races may provide a lot more excitement than usual—
which is not saying too much. Everything with any pre-
tensions to first-class character has been entered for two
r three of w.f.a. prizes, and will probably have a go for
one of them at least.
• • • •
The added money for the four days of the
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting amounts to £ll,OOO or there-
abouts—an average of about £450 per race. And the
distribution of the coin is calculated to encourage the
man who has a good gee-gee and runs it straight. Un-
fortunately the honest intelligent owner is himself a rare
animal.
* » • *
The Essendon Stakes, on Saturday, may bring
out Wakeful, The Victory, Footbolt, Flagship and Vanity
Fair, and will, in that case, be a Champion trial between
the first two, and an Australian Cup trial for the other
three. This scribe expects The Victory to win the
Essendon and the Champion.
• * * •
Manner in which big Sydney Tatt. s Mo.
follows the lead of his small shop brother is amusing.
Half-sov. will often bring a nag down two or three points
in the shop, and double that sum frequently promotes an
outsider to first favorite. Yet every week sees layers
making favorites on the course of nags the shops have at
shortest prices A case in point. Paradenyia did a
decent gallop—nothing out of the way ; but someone saw
it and talked, with the result that a few pounds went on
on the off chance, and the mare was soon very “ hot.”
Mo., as is his custom, opened up with Paradenyia
favorite, thus giving people behind the ultimate winner
Beaufleur a chance to back him down from tens to threes,
which they did with heaps of spirit. As there was little
or no coin on the favorite of their own creation the
raucous voiced fell in badly
• • • •
How Sydney shops bet. Recently a Randwick
trainer, desirous of backing a horse of his quoted 10 to 1,
sent a friend along with a fiver, the whole of which that
individual foolishly endeavored to “ get on ” at ’he first
shop. But they’d'only lay the odds to £l, and when the
“commissioner” fled next door he found 4 to 1 the
best available, and it was the same, or something close
thereto, everywhere else. The shop first entered had
sounded the alarm by telephone.
• • • *
True Blue—Specula colt Blue Spec got away
with Rosehill Hep., Saturday, but only after a tough
struggle from nearly 5 furlongs from home, and in
something the same* fashion as Acrasia won Saturday
before at Warwick Farm. Equator, Silver Ray, and
Redeemed were tackled and squelched in turn, and then
Wootton’s big deceiver, Marathon, came, full of ginger,
in the last 220 yards, but Blue Spec landed the prize well,
and evidenced grit of no common order. Though trying
often, and shaping well mostly, Blue Spec hasn’t been
first past the post since appropriating 2-year-old Maiden
Stakes at A. J.O. meet March last-
• • • •
What punters have to contend with. Heavily
backed (down to 5 to 2) Mura for Nursery Handicap at
Rosehill, Saturday, fell badly in her preliminary, and
was so lame that she had to be withdrawn. Mura never
got near the starting post, but her backers lost their
money through some rule of the Mo.-protecting Tatt.’s
Club.
*
Pendant (winner of Tatt.’s Carrington Stakes
and Oakleigh Plate) was sold as a yearling for 210g5., but
after failing to score in nine starts, she went to present
owner for 140g5., and has since won stakes something in
excess of £llOO.
At Christchurch, Saturday, M.L. champion
trotter Ribbonwood cut Australian mile down from 2.13
to 2.11, and 2 miles from 4.43 to 4.35 4-5. This has
brought additional interest to match ’tween Ribbonwood
and N.S.W. top-notcher Fritz. M.L. people believed
Ribbonwood capable of 2.10. Fritz hasn’t done better
publicly than 2.13, but those behind him insist that he’ll
improve materially when it is wanted. Ribbonwood is a
youngster, and Fritz an old ’un, and consequently less
liable to break.
• • • •
A case of hard luck. At last race meeting at
Forbes (N.S.W.), Algy was the only acceptor for the
Welter Handicap. The jockey walked him leisurely
round the course, but on being weighed in be was found
to be short of weight, and it was declared no race.
• • • •
Methods of A.J.C. stipendiary stewards are
puzzling. Saturday they “carptted” and cautioned
riders of Hello and Araxes at Rosehill. This was Araxes’
second experience within a few weeks, Will the stewards
go on cautioning for ever?
How they drop. Once fore-front-hurdler Iramo,
by Marvellous, went for Hgs. at auction t’other day.
• • • *
Once allegedly absolute and incurable cripple,
Jay Rye, gathered in a double at recent W.A.T.C. tneet.
Same reports about same nag have been heard ever since
his career began, and often it was authoritatively and de-
finitely announced that he’d never sport silk again. On
occasions, too, Jay Rye has done duty at the stud.
« • * •
’Murkan Jock Ames, in Sydney months ago,
and in whom The Bulletin had great faith, has made a
big reputation in India. Recently he won Coronation
Stakes (10,000 rupees) on Up Guards, after a dead heat
with ex-Australian Crettons. Most Sydney trainers
wouldn’t stand Ames’ style because It was new to them,
and this despite that he succeeded with one or two nags
nobody else could get home.
• • • •
Heavyweight jock Montgomery was much in
evidence at Rosehill, Saturday. He landed three mounts
first past the post -two-year-old Airlock, Royal King and
Contest. Last was a brilliant performance. • A few strides
from the finish six nags were in a line, and only skilful
riding of a high order did the trick— by a head.
• • • •
Sydney trainer Fielder’s crack colt Famous,
backed early for Newmarket Handicap, and taken in
heaps of doubles with Australian Cup nags, was scratched
Monday, owing to his having broken away and getting
badly knocked about after running in Futurity Stakes,
Saturday. Famous, like most of his origin, is too un-
reliable to consider seriously, though he does brilliant
work on the track ; he first shaped miserably in St.
George’s Stakes, and then, after two or three excellent
gallops, was backed for Oakleigh Plate, but failed again.
Subsequently, on the track, he downed the Futurity
Stakes winner, Sir Leonard, and thus tempted further
support from his party. Probably it would be a good
thing for all concerned, bar Mo., if Famous never raced
again.
• • • •
Old time well-performed nags, Taranaki and
Abuse, died at Albury t’other day. Taranaki gathered
Williamstown and Wagga Cups amone other things.
Abuse was in the neighbourhood of 20 years old ; he won
lots of up-country plums, and owned exceptional stamina
—St. Kilda Cup was his biggest success. Taranaki was
by Albury from Axiom, and Abuse by Slanderer from
Jointress.
• • • •
Parsonic Jos. Nicholson, of the Wesleyan fra-
ternity, is breaking out worse than ever on the tote
subject. His latest demonstration is a challenge to any
member of the V.R.O. to meet him on a public platform
and discuss the sin and wickedness of a legalised betting
machine. Can anyone throw a little light upon Jos.
Nicholson’s visrilant and voluminous opposition to the
tote? He seem 9 to live for little else. No hired agent of
Ikev Mo. could work more persistently in Ikey Mo.’s
Interest.
• • • •
An alleged stable commission to back Abund-
ance for the Australian Cup wa9 advertised by a dispute
concerning a wasrer of £lOOO to £2OOO. The question as
to whether this enormous bet had been duly taken from a
“great” bookmaker was referred to the Victorian Club
committee, which august body decided that the layer
must stand to half of his offer. The delectable wrangle
makes it appear that the “ring” is in deadly terror of
Abundance, but such appearances are sometimes decep-
tive.
• • • •
“Le Chasse ” ; — Re Ancient Bookie Davis
(8., 14/2/’O3), he was certainly the first to earn the term
“ Leviathan,” and his career shows how much more
valuable pluck and shrewd horse sense are to a man in his
sphere of life than blue blood and scholarship. Davis was
originally a stonemason, and being employed to build the
subscription rooms at Newmarket, he put in his “ smoke
oh,” and other spare time, layinsr the odds in “ half-
bulls ” with his fellow-workmen. Then the moment came
when fortune swung her golden ball towards Davis, and
he gripped and held it fast, coming out of his first big
betting venture £57 ahead. Later on he plunged heavily
on Sir Tatton Sykes for the Derby, won his wagers, and
threw down the chisel and took up the pencil for good.
When the Act for the Suppression of Lotteries was passed
Davis, knowing that many men must gamble or die, saw
another chance to score, so he published his first list in
1846, at the Durham Arms, Strand, while at his head-
quarters, “ Barr’s,” in Long Acre, Davis and a staff of
clerks stood at huge bankers’ ledgers and entered bets.
So great was the confidence reposed in Davis, that a
winning voucher of his was as negotiable as a Bank of
England note.
• • • •
The real cause of deferring the visit of an Eng-
lish cricket team until, perhaps, the end of next year, is
(according to Captain Archie Maclaren) the diffi-
culty in securing suitable bowlers. It is no longer con-
sidered a picnic when an English team visits Australia ;
instead there’s a great deal of hard graft to be got through
to win test matches against Australia’s “ best ” ; and,
with that end in view, the cream of ’Onie trundlers don’t
care to take it on. Also, the counties won’t risk a journey
to Australia of the best English professional trundlers,
and, therefore, it’s more than likely that we will have
to wait a while yet before anything like a represen-
tative team is brought out.
• • • •
A. C. M'Laren is stated to have been “elected
to a seat on the hoard ’’ of a London firm of wine-mer-
chants. He is to have as much free time as he may
require for cricket, county or otherwise ; and to play the
game regularly in England means giving one’s whole
time to it from the beginning of May till the middle of
September—to say nothing of visiting Australia, South
Africa, &c., in the off-season.
• • • *
The proposal to widen the wicket to 9in. will
probably meet with considerable opposition in Australia,
where it would certainly tend to shorten the long drawn-
out matches. Of course this would liven up the game,
but if it reduced the four days’ match to, say, two or
two and a-half, there would be a slump in the gate
receipts. And with the local cricketing bodies, the gate
talks every time.
» » • •
Hundreds went out to Hampden Park again
Saturday hoping that Trumper would repeat his big Red-
fern achievement, but they were disappointed. Sydney
bowler Mcßeath got him for 3. Thus have two “ Sydney
district” bowlers (t’other was Marsh) scattered the
world’s champion bat’s stumps on successive Saturdays
for a total of 12. The luck of it.
• • • •
At Christchurch, the “most English” of all
M.L. cities, on the third day of Lord Hawke’s team v.
Canterbury, Sims and Pearce were batting, and Bosan-
quet had just sent one to Pearce. Although the wicket
was all right, one of the bails was off, and Whatman,
keeping wickets, cried, “ Well bowled, Bose.v,” but Sims
called to Pearce to appeal. Umpire Spencer could not
see the wickets, and it was found that a fog had got into
C. Bannerman’s eyes also. A wrangle resulted, and Eng-
lish captain Warner said with all the loudness of excessive
irritation that it was “ the most disgraceful decision he
had ever heard on the cricket field.” Then, after the
match, and the defeat of the Maorilanders, it was said that
during the rest of the game Bosanquet and Whatman
kept up a running fire of gibes, putting the local men off
their game. The fat was in the fire, and for days there
was no other subject worth mentioning in the city,
and more excitement than over 50 elections or wars.
Two days later Warner offered an alleged apology in the
press, but as he admitted offence, and sought to condone
it by saying that it was a remark not meant for the ears
of the world at large, his apology only made things
worse. Then Bosanquet apologised pretty frankly, and,
on behalf of Whatman, explained that Whatman would
apologise to Sims for a certain insult if it could be proved
that he was guilty of the said insult, and as it was
practically whispered into the ear of Sims, it is a case of
one man’s word against the other’s. Then the employer
of Sims, a very influential person, and a real Sportsman,
wrote Sims, stating that he would refuse to allow Sims
leave for the Maoriland match, unless Whatman per-
sonally and directly apologised to Sims, and this letter
was faithfully chronicled by the excited newspapers. The
whole affair is quite the most unpleasant in the history of
Maoriland cricket. As one of the two Maoriland
matches is to be played in Christchurch, the visitors will
have a lively time. Meanwhile cricket here has a dark-
brown taste. And it all arose from the one-in-a-million
chance of two umpires caught napping, coming to pass.
It was all fat for the papers, and they saw in it all sorts
of horrors, from the disintegration of the Empire to a
solemn warning against the degrading effects of English
public schools. The politeness at the remaining matches
will almost certainly be painful and protuberant.
There is a deal of trouble imminent between the
Earning bodies of cricket in Australia—the game o
msy which has characterised the *?£ionB of t
es for years. The real trouble 18 the other Sta
will not recognise the Melbourne Cricket Club aa t
“authority,” and the M.C.C. having been the mouthpiece,
so to speak, of cricket in bringing English teams to Aus-
tralia, considers it is entitled to the “ boss-ship. So when
the N.B.W. Cricket Association or the &A. body proposes
to introduce anv new idea, it is promptly sat upon by t
Melbourne authority—which procedure, having been
tolerated for a long time, must ultimately have a climax-
The position has been strained recently, k®* e T,£ r J, /
Frank Iredale, who gave notice, at the last N.5.v».1..a.
meeting, “ that, when the proper time arrives, the Asso-
ciation take steps to send the next Australian Ai. to
England.” It is but the thin end of the wedge
to a mighty upheaval. Then, again, the S.A. autbon-
ties proposed a visit of that State’s “ best’ to Westralia
at Easter-time ; and when the Melbourne body heard of
it, it announced its intention of sending a team on the
same errand. There are many leeks to be eaten—whicn
body shall do the “ feasting ” remains to be seen. What
is wanted is an Australian Federal Cricket Association,
composed of an equal number of delegates from each of
the States, which shall be expected to gi ve final decisions
in all matters connected with the game, as well as hiil the
position of representative head in dealings with, the
English, S’African, and other bodies. While there is no
“ boss ” authority the old jealousy will remain.
• • • •
Charles Bannerman is umpiring in the matches
played by Lord Hawke’s team in Maoriland.
• • • •
They had been playing poker all night in a club
in a Maoriland town. Of the party was an American
traveller. His luck was appalling, but he never lost his
calm. He had one unvarying formula : “ I’ll see you.
What have you got?" “Three Queens.” ’ Take it
away." “ I’ll see you. What have you got * F our
Jacks." “ Take it away.” As soon as the bank opened
in the morning the traveller went to draw £2O against his
letter of credit. He filled in the application and handed
it to the teller. The latter, asking the Yankee how he
would take the money, said : “Four fives ? ” The drum-
mer, with his wonted phlegm : “ Take it away ! ”
• • * •
Provided you can streak, it is better to be a pro-
fessional cyclist than a Crown Minister in Australia.
Yankee flier Major Taylor got £l5OO to come to Aus-
tralia and ride only 16 races. Also, he was to keep all he
could win, and now he is to receive an additional £5OO to
remain till April 14. It is understood that for some years
this dark young man has never made less than £9OOO per
annum for rushing round on a machine before a multi tudeof
people. Meanwhile George Turner, Australia’s careful
financier, who handles millions, and who has more to
do with the happiness and prosperity of every man,
woman and child on the continent than any other indi-
vidual man, will receive £l5OO for his year of crushing
responsibility and the work that kills. Still Thb Bulletin
would rather be George Turner.
• • • •
Major Taylor shunted his influenza very speedily,
and there were none of the usual after-effects about it
either. Last week, with four men taking half a lap each,
the black bikist got over a mile on St. Kilda track in
1.50 2-s—the world’s fastest behind single pace ; he
“ jumped ” the last ISOyds. in 11 2-ssea, and finished
wonderfully strong. How Don Walker figured that he
had a hope with Taylor surpasses this writer’s under-
standing.
• • • •
Story published in a religious paper of Major
“ Holy ” Taylor, cyclist: “ At one of the recent contests,
a well-known cyclist was somewhat severely injured by a
collision on the track. As soon as possible, Taylor and a
number of members of the craft went to visit their fallen
comrade in the hospital. Standing by the bedside, the
world’s champion took the poor fellow by the hand, and
said in a voice as tender as that of a woman, ‘Well,
brother, I guess that you don’t want us to talk to you.
About the best thing we can do is to pray for you.’ And
in a moment the man whom everybody in Sydney has
recently been talking about was upon his knees, and
offered a prayer that will never be forgotten by the
astonished cyclists who were present. The way he pleaded
for the restoration of ‘ our dear brother’ was touching in
the extreme.” The “astonished cyclists"? Our oath,
yes 1
• • • *
Crack bikist Morgan is now showing his form
of four years ago, when he was top of the heap in scratch
races; then Don Walker assumed sway and Morgan
dropped off. Some think Morgan’s vanquishment of
Taylor ere the latter leaves Australia better than a
possibility, especially as Morgan “ jumps ” much like the
black.
» * • *
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen received but 110
entries for the “ Sydney Thousand ” —a handicap which
ought to have set the cycling world on fire. Apparently
the Australian plugger prefers smaller prizes, but plenty
of them. Seems a pity that the cyclists aren’t as enter-
prising as the League.
That Melbourne bicycle meeting in aid of an
Injured Cyclists’ Fund raked in £l5O for the good cause.
Now that a start has been made the idea should be pushed
along vigorously, and N.S.W. League should take the
matter up and give a day’s racing, on which occasion the
Sydney Cricket Ground Trustees might give the ground
free and insist upon all members paying a shilling
entrance fee. Still, there’s not much chance of the
S.C.G. doing either—the octopus cannot change its
nature.
• • • •
Motor-paced bike show at Sydney Cricket
Ground ended Wednesday and Robl, Dickentmann
and Co. left Europewards Saturday, not over pleased
with financial results, but foretelling a possible good
time for their department ot the wheel game in
the future when Australians are educated up to
it. Last display saw the Teutons allow McDonald and
Goodson 440j'ds. each in 3m. McDonald was never
caught and got home brilliantly—a quarter of his start to
the good. Dickentmann was second. A punctured tyre
put Goodson out of it but he came strong in the mile
which fell to him by 6yds. after a hot tussle with
McDonald right through the final lap. Neither Robl or
Dickentmann had a chance at any stage. Among best of
all during the three days was a five miles event. Dickent-
mann had half a lap and Goodson and McDonald 1J laps
each. Goodson’s tyre collapsed just inside 3m. from the
start. McDonald (overhauled a mile from home) made a
good fight of it but lost his pace and Dickentmann
qualified for the coin or whatever there was in it. Public
stayed away considerably—evidently full. Paced racing
doesn’t go down in these parts.
* • • •
N.S.W. crack swimmer, George Read—now a
full blown pro.—easily beat Wheat State champion Moon
in 500yds. S.A. supremacy, last week, after leading from
go. T me (6.25) is only 4-ssec. behind “Joey” Nuttall’s
world’s best, and considerably better than anything ever
previously done in Australia, yet Adelaide swimming
scribes wrote that their fresh water was slow compared
with that of N.S.W., because of lime being present in
large quantities. Rats ! If Read hadn’t shed his amateur
mantle through competing in S.A. his 6.25 would have
stood a world’s record —2-ssec. better than Billington’s
(England) established last year.
• • • •
Thousand yds. supremacy of S. A., Monday night,
went to Read, who won by 60yds. from local crack Moon,
in 14*31. Australian record is 13 51 1-5, and belongs to
Read, who put up that time at Farmer’s (Sydney) baths
December 7,1901.
• * • •
Plunge premiership of N.S.W. at Pyrmont
S. C. gala (Saturday) fell to W. M'Donald (East Svdney
S. C.), who traversed 63ft 3in. W. B. Coates (61ft. 4in )
was second, and previous holder (Keers) third. Austral,
asian record (one minute time limit) is 69ft., accomplished
by M’Donald; but world’s best (79ft. 3in.) belongs to
Englishman Taylor. 6
* * • *
Dick Cavill broke another world’s record at
Pyrmont (Sydney), Saturday, when swimming with that
object in a 120 yards handicap. He covered the distance
in 1.141-s—l-ssec. faster than the existing figures (Fred
Lane’sh and 2.1-10 slower than Cavill’s swim at Newcastle
recently, when, unfortunately (through carelessness!
conditions didn’t fit record rules. rciessness),
* • • «
Past week saw speed-swimmers, island-boy
Wickham and Dick Cavill. streak over short spurts
phenomenally. One day Wickham traversed 50 yards in
27sec. ; couple of days later he improved on that 3-ssec
and further on same afternoon put up 26sec. First lap
(25yds.) of last-mentioned swim was thrown rearward in
11 3-ssec. ; but Cavill lopped 3-ssec. off in a trial and is
thus responsible for possibly the fastest dash over 26
yards ever known, while Wickham's fifty tops all records.
• • • •
Sydney racing yachts competed on Saturday
last for the Beauchamp Cup, presented by the ex-Gov. to
the Royal Bydney Yacht Squadron. Said “squadron"
is some half-dozen boats which career up and down
Port Jackson every Saturday. Sydney yachting is di-
vided between two bodies, who take themselves quite
seriously, named the R.S.Y.S above, and the Prince
Alfred Yacht Club. They share equally the year’s yachting
programme and the friendship of the Royal family. They
possess separate commodores, vice-commodores, club
houses, and yachting get-ups, but unfortunately
they possess, also, the very same racing yachts; so that
when the R.B. Y.S. announces a race for the King Edward
Cup, the Saturday tripper on the Manly boats knows that
the skipper on the bridge is trying to dodge the same
little fleet of boats that the week before were seen chasing
each other round the Sow and Pigs for the Queen
Alexandra Plate competed for by the P.A.Y.C. In con-
sequence there is none of that rivalry existing in Hobson's
Bay between the different yacht clubs.
* • • *
Heavyweight bruising supremacy of the conti-
nent for £2OO a-side and a purse of £325 will be fought at
Sydney National S.C. Tuesday night next week between
Dan Creedon and present holder, Billy McCall. Both
have been through a thorough preparation and are very
confident. It's an unusually good match physically for
they are strong, well-built men about the same height,
and the difference in weight won’t exceed 2lbs. McCall
may start the better favorite as Creedon is the visitor,
but anvhow there’ll be heavy wagering. Creedon has
been fighting perhaps 12 years in all parts of the world
and is still forceful and active ; he is cleverer, too, than
when he went to 'Murka as middleweight champion of Aus-
tralia. McCall is a comparative novice, lacking the skill
and wiles of Creedon, but he is a plucky, tough, hard-
hitting fighter who can stand thumbing and do some of it
himself to the other man’s detrim.jt when opportunity
offers. It’s a fight that probably won’t last six rounds
but there’ll be no let on once it starts.
• • • •
Waterloo and Botany (to a man almost) watched
their champions, Booth and Porter, scrap at Sydney
Golden Gate A.C., Saturday night, and roared satisfac-
tion or otherwise continuously. Porter punched
hard and often; Booth came rarely, but when
he did ’twas a stiffer thump than any Porter sent along.
Not once, from start to stop, did the yelling cease, and
when Booth, waiting and watching, found an opening
and dropped his man cold and limp, the scene fairly
beat anything of the kind writer ever witnessed. It
was no push c ash ; it was an inter-district fight between
representatives of centres that boast more bruise lovers
than any other four suburbs. Botany is sure to find
another ‘man for Booth, and before long, too; then
there’ll be another big battle worth some trouble to
look at.
• • • •
Ex-silver-digger Jim Hiscutt and clever, but
ineffective, fighter Montv Andrews shaped at Sydney
National S.C. last week. 'Each punched the other every-
where, but neither fell as the result of a blow. Hiscutt,
strung up high in mind, arm and leg, quivered again
with the excitement of the thing, and Andrews looked
fiercer than a bull pup, showing his teeth and throwing
loads of intention into what he did ; but, tho*h much
more skilful, he was as harmless almost as his
opponent. Hiscutt charged and ran against Andrews’
extended left frequently, and this damaged his
lips and put an eye badly in mourning. Never did so
many hooks, swings, jabs, &c., land on and near the
chins of two men with such poor results. Neither could
hit a hurtful punch. The battle went the full trip—2o
rounds—with Hiscutt forcing always, though completely
pumped out towards the end. Andrews won, but hap-
penings at any stage never justified the odds of 5 to 2 and
3 to 1 laid on him.
* • • •
Novice pug competition at Sydney Gaiety A.C.
ended remarkably. Each of two semi-final bouts and the
final were over inside the first round and all through
knock-out punches. There are few r parallels to this in the
history of bruise.
• • * •
S. A. Lawn-tennis Association this year hardened
its heart to drop J. R. Baker from the inter-State six.
Baker (who is now an Adelaide city councillor) has been
one of the leading players for some 15 years, though only
actual champion twice, and is the recognised local
authority' on the game. He came back into this year’s
team on a chance vacancy, to the general satisfaction.
Australia lost an able and resourceful
journalist in Mr. Joseph Evison, who died last
week of internal cancer at Bondi. The son of a
military officer, Mr. Evison saw some service in
China and India. Then drifting to Maoriland, he
was first an agnostic lecturer and then a journalist
—one of the positions he held being, curiously
enough, that of editor of a very pious and vigorous
Roman Catholic paper. In Australia Mr. Evison
was engaged for many years in literary work, as
leader-writer on the Australian Stab and in
other positions. He also contributed to Thk
Bulletin. Owing to his long and painful illness,
which incapacitated him from work, he was in
poor circumstances at the close of his life and The
Bulletin had collected a little money for him
from sympathisers; future receipts to the fund
will be handed over to Mr. Evison’s widow.
Mr. M'Mahon, of M‘Mahon’sPoint, North
Sydney, has called at this office and given an
amused but emphatic denial to the yam that
appeared in The Bulletin of Feb. 14— that he
hung a picture of Pastor Chiniquy in his drawing-
room in the belief that it was that of Marshal
M'Mahon, sometime President of the French.
The M'Mahon who was taken in by the swindling
picture-vendor dwelt somewhere in the neighbor-
hood of Bungendore. He will probably come
along with his contradiction next week.


ICE!
ICE!
ICE!
TH* Hot stifling summer days are Here/
“ y not £ et » Rsfrigerator, and use Ice ?
Keeps all perishable Food in good con-
txon. Makes the distressing Heat bear*
Jfte timely use of Ice often saves life.
Our Ice is made from distilled water—'
as Hard and as clear as crystal. * * *
Sent in special transport boxes to any
railway town where not represented by
agencies. SEND FOR. A PRICE LIST
C 'ha i
N.S.W. FresH Food (D. Ice Co. Ltd.
Sydney
HIGH GRADE
HIGH GRADE
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLES
ATHLETIC SUPPLIES
Cricket,
Nichols’ Spec, Golf Goods,
American Lawn Tennis,
Canadian Lacrosse,
Send fob Illustrated Catalogue.
Sandow’s Physical Culture Apparatus.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
( Branches ,n Every state. 357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
DE HIGH GRADE
Franz Josef Lager
THERE IS NOTHING BETTER.
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office : 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 tos. to £is
REMINGTON RIFLES j 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Special Sale of Second-hand Bikes.
It is the seaaon of Sales, and we keep up the custom. Now is your time, for never before in
the history of cycle-selling was such a cheap lot of bikes offered for sale as we offer now All
sorts, from £3 upwards, guaranteed in perfect order—to make room for our new 1903
RED BIRDS, now on the water. Country customers can send in their money, and depend
on us to return full value. r
Branches in every state. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., Sydney.
We have just landed a very special stock of high-grade Sporting Goods.
ENGINEMAN’S MASTER KEY— AII Subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations ;
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also, Coles,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
SHRRPS H 6 OTIH <S
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
IF you wish to get good work and value
,y you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES)
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Melbourne.
(Creeiier's' Representative).
The Veterinarian.
THE DIFFERENT PREPARATIONS OF
“SALVITIS
101 HORSES, CATTLE, SHEEP,
PICS, &C. ARE WORTH TRYINC!
SALVITIS Index of Diseases, Free.
Remedies suggested in this Column promptly supplied
by Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
it
n
Ensures abundance
of EGGS and
Healthy Poultry.
USED BY LEADING BREEDERS—I/-, 5/-, 10/-, 20/-
SALVITIS ROUP PILLS, 1/6 per box.
Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
pOR NIGH A CENTURY
WILLIAM !’ B BAR
has been the FAITHFUL FRIEND of the
TONSORIAL ARTIST.
TO-DAY, The Potent Phrase. “THIS SHOP USES ONLY
WILLIAMS’!” is a Sure PASSPORT TO PUBLIC FAVOR.
Send a Penny Stamp for Williams’ Face
Puzzle. Can you explain it? J. B. WILLIAMS CO.
Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A. ; and 232Clarenee-st., Sydney
m
m ni mi
LU
a
m»m\
LU
B
□.--111,1, N
cm
■pOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLI
x ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY
That is ‘'Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” ~9J
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Pos
Office. Proprietor—GEO. IV. ELLIS.
mm
a Tool
I was—not to buy VULCANISED
Ifi
f i^° u ' dn ’ fc have had tMs continual trouble ! Nothing but “ Dunlops ’
lor me IN THE FUTURE. ®
trade mark K 33
Guaranteed for 12 Months. Beware of Imitations.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
108 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And st Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch, N.Z.
I
.S. W. Depot:
150 Clarence St
Sydney.
“ Kahore ” writes :—
The impression conveyed by a recent personal item re
M.L. Speaker Maurice O’Rorke’s defeat is quite incorrect.
During last Parliament, and more particularly last
session, there never was enough noise to wake a man
from his afternoon nap. Fact is, O’Rorke never was a
strong politician. Despite the name, he had no “Irish ”
in his veins—never could “ show willing.” His position
as Speaker prevented him from being a strong party-
man, also from introducing deputations to harass Minis-
ters for roads and bridges, and howl for the main trunk
line ; and ill-health gave him further obscurity. Then
the Farmers’ Union Wanted to try its-strength, and the
Prohibitionists owed him one for his defence of the
publicans. But the folly of the average elector was the
chief factor in a good man’s defeats — -
Mrs. W. A. GROVE, Sterling Centre, Maine,
writes :
“ I was taken with a HARSH, DRY COUGH, and grew
steadily worse. My neighbors thought I was going into
Consumption. JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT CURED ME
IN LESS THAN TEN DAYS.”*
In a letter to his sister dated “Sydney,
Sept. 15, 1841,” Henry Parkes wrote : —“1 saw a
case in tire newspapers last week of a young
woman who was turned out of one of those
emigrant ships when the 10 days were up, and
was found by a policeman sitting on the Queen’s
Wharf and taken to the watchhouse. The next
morning she was brought before the magistrate
charged with being drunk ; and though she stated
that it was faintness, and that she was meditating
suicide when the policeman came to her, yet she
was sentenced on the oath of the policeman to sit
one hour in the stocks.”
Patents for Inventions.— Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world..
Highly treasonable statement from Sydney
Daily Telegraph
This is not the place—although this might be a good
occasion—-for discussing the unreasonableness of setting
these limitations upon Russia’s advancement. It is
difficult to understand why Russia should be regarded as
a caged wild animal whose escape from confinement
would imperil the world’s peace and safety. Russia has
often been held guilty of acts, possibly provocative of
war, but lias never, at all events in modern days, deliber-
ately provoked a war, which is more than can be said of
France, Germany, Austria, and even England. If Russia
is to become a progressive and highly civilised nation she
must expand. As she cannot do this commercially, she
has to resort to diplomatic methods which are generally
not more dishonest than those which, under cover of the
protection of commercial and financial interests, are
resorted to by other nations such as England, Germany
and the United States. As for the Dardanelles, it is
difficult to understand why they should not be as much
an international highway as the Suez Canal.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
“X.” Viewing the stately mummery o.
King Edward’s coronation procession in the bio
graph pictures, one is struck by the idea that the
general gorgeous effect is discounted by the pow-
dered wigs and trappings of servility worn by
postillions and footmen who figure in the show.
Thackeray’s jibe is recalled to mind. In “The
Newcomes,” published 1853, the satirist wrote :
The carriage of Sir Brian Newcome now drove up, from
which the Baronet descended in state, leaning upon the
arm of the Apollo in plush and powder, who closed the
shutters of the great coach, and mounted bj' the side of
the coachman, laced and periwigged. The Bench of
Bishops has given up its wigs; cannot the box, too,
be made to resign that insane decoration ? Is it neces-
sary for our comfort that the men who do our work in
stable or household should be dressed like Merry
Andrews ?
The Paradise of flunkeydom (which its name is
England) has somewhat modified its garish old
snobberies since 1853. A baronet’s menials are not
ordinarily dolled up to the same extent as of yore
when they take the h’air on master’s kerridge.
But the Merry Andrew costume that Thackeray
ridiculed is none the less essential to the
“majesty” of a royal procession. In a comedy
where every mummer wore a livery more or less
absurd, and the king himself sported a travelling
crown on his bald head, it was very necessary that
flunkeys should be extravagantly disguised, so as
to keep the king in countenance. Monarch,
peers, court officials, generals, and all engaged
upon the .gaudy. jobjbar. the .aaihuu.
men) were Merry Andrews of various degrees.
In selecting a man to contest the Victorian Leg.
Council seat, rendered vacant by the retirement
of alleged Senator Robert Reid, the Reform
League has shown its claws badly. It has been
strenuously denied that this combination of self-
seekers is tinged with Toryism. Yet the League,
after careful consideration in private, chose fa*,-
man William Cain, as a landlord after its own
heart. In his manifesto, Cain says he will sup-
port the Government in promoting economy in all
public expenditure—in fact, it seems that he
believes in robbing anybody rather than in paying
taxes; he is in accord with the proposal to cut
down the numbers in the Assembly to 56, but
does not think the Council should be reduced in
proportion. Also, he supports sweating in the
public service and Railway Department, but
opposes adult suffrage. Then Cain winds up
with some flapdoodle about the Govt, having
‘‘ fa ?ed difficulties which threatened the future of
the State in a manner which no previous Govern-
f;ad done.” About the other democratic
ideas that were embodied in the Reform Bill
Cain says nothing, but, judging from his general
attitude, he proposes to bury them in the same
grave with his brother Abel.
4
“ Quilp N.” writes :—
Re the loss of the Elingamite and subsequent dis-
crepancies between the engineers’ and deck-officers’
evidence. The engine-room staff would feel a slight
bump which would not be felt on deck. On coastal
steamers trading across shallow bars the engineers fre-
quently hear and feel the vessel scraping over the sand,
when there is not a tremor perceptible up above. When
a propeller-blade strikes even so slight an object as a
S-v.” cm- ' ° X ll ? e t) * ow r ' n £ 8 > n the engine-room like a bell,
lhe Elingamite s engines went half a turn astern, which
proves that the reversing-gear was in order. The theory
that kelp clogged the propeller-blades will not stand
investigation. It would take more than kelp to hold
powerful machinery such as the El in samite’s —she had
been logging 12 knots previous to the fog coming down—
and unless some of the fires were drawn the steam would
not be likely to fall to a dangerously low pressure, as has
been suggested. Rather, using but a little, the pressure
would be inclined to rise. It is most probable that the
engineers evidence is correct—the propeller fouled some-
thing, and the shock was not felt on deck. I have known
of a steamer grinding across a bar, and an old chain, half
buried in the sand, rattled against her plates. The
engineer on watch heard it clinking as distinctly as if
the sound had been in the engine-room. He was the
only one who heard it.
Tasmania struggles along with four paid
Ministers at £750 a year each, and some of the
‘‘reformers” are demanding that one-third of
these (i.e. one Minister and 33 per cent of another
Minister) shall be abolished, and that the salaries
of the remaining two Ministers and two-thirds be
further reduced. Now, what salary do these
reformers think would buy the services of a
competent manager for a financial institution with
£800,000 a year income and nearly £9,000,000 of
liabilities; or for an assurance office with 172,000
clients; or for an estate of 12,000,000 acres? No
doubt a manager for the A.M.P. Society or
Broken Hill, Proprietary mine-, could be got
for a few pounds a week, but what kind of
A.M.P. Society and what kind of mine
would there probably be after the few pounds a
week man had been in charge for a few years ?
And think of the folly, from the Tasmanian
reform ” standpoint, of paying Wellington the
salary he received to command the Allies at
Waterloo, when there were plenty of people ready
to take the job for £2 a week and the cocked hat.


J
9
FT^T 7T
\,4 T"' ■: •• a ' ; ;sf < >x 'w, > ' •
' -/■, ' ~
sSr&i#® '
!? K
■H
s *&■
*\ i -! ■
!^#4'
:. As. J
' ' oC ."*
#
\" , ' ,' »' " ' u , A.!
u> , i rtviln j ; " : 'V->-''"t;
«L .33 ;0 11 O
. i . £ . a *V*gkii :..' **s■'*... A
fan
IP£ ■', 1 a' \' V K 'V && I #®
|£v f '
v .; :>
IB' s \l*> s .■ M
>(
Sisi
i|P^|'
Us
a 44 °}
s/feMjt? aj*?
$!: : ft
mu
liiilwsO
v
■V
m
a
a
o
CLEANLINESS.
In manufacturing articles for human consumption or use absolute cleanliness is essential. The machinery, the building which contains it, must be free from dirt. The
operators must be healthy men and women. Fresh air should be allowed to circulate freely into every corner. Our factory is one of the healthiest, cleanest, and most
airy in Sydney. The floors are such that you could eat your dinner on them. There is light and fresh air everywhere. The tobacco used is the best and the cigarettes
are made up under better sanitary conditions than most foods and delicacies. The public need, therefore, have no fear in smoking them, there being absolutely nothing
hurtful about Guinea Gold Cigarettes. OGDEN’S, LIMITED, 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion 1 If so, under the skin you have poison that defies alt
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured-
Send at once for
ALBERT S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad L*g«,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per b .x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, FarLingdon-Street, London, England.
Agents*. .\LLIOTT B KOS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
The Soothing Influence
Of a mere inspection of the new pattern
“ PREMO ” and “ POCO ” Cameras im-
ported by the BAKER & ROUSE PROPY.,
LTD., is admitted by all Photographers.
The “ POCKET POCO ” and the “ POCKET POCO A ’
appeal irresistibly to Ladies, and the magazine hand
camera, “THE SNAPPA,” to all members of the craft.
Call and see them.
NEW MOULDED EDISON RECORDS—AII the Latest.
The Pick of the World’s Photographic Annuals for 1903.
Sydney.
Melbourne.
Adelaide.
Brisbane.
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.,
<— 375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Alsi MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism! Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
w
communicate
HEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALFALINE Vitality Pills which have cured
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that Xich
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing and he will
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair but
te with him without delay, no matter where you live. ‘ Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free. ’
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
R ASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER arid KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-Tamed, and his PILE POWDERS never Tail ; 6s per box each
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office
547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St.
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N-Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORLIE: 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.
“ N.” : Concerning Gavan Duffy : —
Though Duffv left his own elaborately chiselled monu-
ment,'in the “ Autobiography,” he has not drawn his
portrait—that shuffling ge ltleman who used to be noted
in Melbourne streets, shaking his head, and talking to
himself, as he went with his eyes on the pavement. He
arrived in Vic. just at the right time. The old semi-
nominee Parliament was moribund, and the new Consti-
tutional one about to spring into being. The outcome of
his colleagueship with O’Shanassy in two Ministries was
that the big O’Shan, said, “ Duffy is the biggest scoundrel
unhung.” However, it must have been in somewhat of a
Pickwickian political sense, for Duffy records in his book
that, after their final political parting, O’Shanassy called
on him in London. He introduced O’Shan, to some of
his fine friends there, in return for O’Shan.’s putting him
on his legs in Melb. Over 40 years ago the news (false)
of Duffv’s death was passed round in the Victorian
Legislative Assembly, to the surprise of nobody.
He had notoriously the most rieketty constitution in the
whole House. Notwithstanding, he despised injunctions
to take care of his health. After returning home at mid-
night from an exhausting Parliamentary debate he would
read till about daylight. He insisted on a big and late
dinner, and said to Sam. Winter : “ Never attempt to
dine in the middle of the day.” Did that prop him up
till eighty-seven ? As a politician Duffy had not much
sincerity ; but it should be always remembered to his
credit that he originated the Parliamentary agitation for
Federation. In 1857 he moved for the appointment of a
select committee of the Victorian Assembly V to enquire
into and report upon the necessity of a Federal union of
the Australasian States for legislative purposes, and the
best means of accomplishing such a union if necessary.”
The committee was appointed, and though its delibera-
tions came to nothing, Duffy toiled at his Federal idea
all his political life. There was a suspicion that Duffy’s
real motive was separation from England ; and the time
was not ripe for that. For what political work he did
Mr. Duffy was, unlike most politicians, well paid. In his
long life as a pensioner he overtook any difference
between what he had deserved and what he had drawn
as salary.
Harry Morant and his sorry fate, told of
in “ Bushman and Buccaneer” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Pietersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Booksellers and Bulletin office (post free Is. Id.)


WILD WITH ECZEMA
And Other Itching, Burning,
scaly Eruptions with
Loss of Hair.
Speedy Cure Treatment.
Bathe the affected parts with Hot Water and Cuticura Soap, to
cleanse the surface of crusts and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and apply Cuticura Ointment
freely, to allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, and lastly take Cuticura Resolvent Pills,/to cool and cleanse the
blood. A single set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, burning, scaly, pimply humours, eczemas, rashes,
irritations, and chafings, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
The agonizing itching and burning of the skin, as in eczema; the fright-
ful scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair and crusting of the-scalp, as in
seal led head; the facial disfigurement, as in pimples and ringworm: the
awful suffering of infants and the anxiety of worn-out parents, as in milk
crust, tetter, and-salt rheum, all demand a remedy of almost superhuman
virtues to successfully cope with them. Such are the Cuticura remedies,
the purest, sweetest, most speedy and economical curatives for the skin,;
scalp, and blood ever compounded. Mothers are their warmest friends.
Milllonsof Women UseCuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and tho
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes and chafings, in the form of baths for
annoying irritations and of women, or too free or offensive
perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves, as well as
for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
_ odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid CtJTiciTRA Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Cuticuba Remedtes are cold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.. Sydney. Britiah
Depot; 27-28. Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot! 5 Rue de la Paix, Parie. Pottee Drug and Chxm.
Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S- A.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bobble are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
Sc
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS. <&a
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
IWhen in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a 193 to 195 Cleveland-strcct, Redfcrn, SYDNEY
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and everv description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order.' HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
'enf. mor" to- - our t
OIK SI'KCIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
OellTered at any Wharf «r
N.SiW. UailirajK, Station
£lO 10/-
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s (Ltd.)]
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS J
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being' rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
draitm to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OP
PENS.”
3
Each pattern beirvj made tn to-uv degrees of flexibility and Points.
Ask your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series. Works : BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
M ELLIN’S
FOB INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send (or Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
Castro’s Cast Sacrament
And other Stories,
BY ALBERT DORRINGTON.
“ The Most Brilliant Short Stories Produced in
Australia .”
A CONBEN3UB OF CRITICAL OPINION.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
'* He has been everywhere and seen every-
thing, and he has to no ordinary extent the
power of presenting things as they seemed to
him—the gift of vivid and powerful narration.
.... Contains dramatic pictures which the
best of our artists in words might well envy.”—•
Sydney Mot ning Herald.
"The stories are often filled with incidents
that startle the reader, and emotions whose very
strength makes him shiver. . . . Mr. Dorring-
ton’s warrant as a writer of short stories is that
of absolute genius.”— Sydney Daily Telegraph.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
; ewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
any name or three initials) made of extra quality
>ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
eed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICZ, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address—
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE. AUSTRALIA
THE FINEST TONIC
PER BRA7AIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drop*.
PER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthr constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation ."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-'Mtfcai nil
the good effects gf iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth ■“
*nir> ST CBSHISTS AI.L TUI WOSI.D OVF*.
WHOLESALE : Paris, ISO, Rue Lafayette.
Too Stout
I was for years; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to 10st. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
DEAFNESS.
TN addition to the inconvenience inherent in the In-
firmity itself, DEAFNESS has a marked influence on
the Mental Development of the individual, when the
latter has been attacked by it in youth.
Fora long time DEAFNESS and CHRONIC AFFEC-
TIONS OF THE EAR have been considered almost
INCURABLE, but recently a very simple means has
been found in the ELECTRICON to successfully apply
Metallic Galvanic Electricity direct to the ears, perma
nenently curing Deafness, and completely banishing al
distressing head-noises.
Those who are interested in the subject would do wel
to read the complete description of this method of treat-
ment in the “ Journal for the Deaf,” published by the
R. VERNON COY., 60-64 Hunter-street, SYDNEY,
and sent FREE to anyone asking for it.
EVERY WOMAN
Is Interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
’S EXPECT OR ANT
THE WORSTCOUGHS.
In Hospital
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was in G Ward—-a temporary Wreck—watching
the bars swinging. Over every bed, suspended
by a chain, is a short bar, by whioh patients who
cannot move their legs may draw themselves up
into a sitting posture. The patients set the bars
swinging to break the monotony; I’ve seen
nearly all the bars going like pendulums at the
same time. The motion soothes many : it never
soothed me.
• • * *
The old night-nurse in spectacles is making
beds, and getting a few convalescents out on to the
verandah. There seems no change in the ward,
save that a screen is drawn round the bed oppo-
site me. It tells me that a quaint and stubborn
old spirit passed out during the night.
There are forty-nine wrecks beside myself—
forty-eight since last night; but there is a man
walking lustily to his work this morning (and
averaging £3 a week) who, this night, will be
carried in and laid on the dead man’s bed, smashed
by a tram,
A cheerful young Swede who has lost a toe is
scurrying round in a wheel chair. He is a sailor.
He reminds me that there are several Swedes in
the ward, all of whom have met with accidents on
ships or wharves in the harbour. “We Swedes
hold on as long as we can—the others get from
under quick,” one explained to me.
* • • •
I think the popular idea is that hurt men suffer
great pain all the time till they get well. As a
rule, they don’t. I had a broken ankle, and can
honestly say that I scarcely felt it at all after the
first night. Toothache is ten times worse than a
broken bone. But here men suffer mentally ; I
believe the mental, in most cases, is much
greater than the physical suffering. Honest,
sober workmen are tortured by the thought of lost
time and wages, and by the forced inactivity. And
what of the wrecks (the sinners) brought to this
by their sins or because of woman’s work? You
see the majority of the accidents come about
through drink, and
The hell the Christian fears to name
Is Heaven to his fierce remorse.
“ This experience makes a man callous,” I said
to Dr. A , one morning.
“We are not callous,” he said ; “I often see
things that I feel keenly ; but we must appear
cheerful whatever happens. . „ . The trouble is,”
he added, reflectively, “ that we never know what’s
behind. We never know what’s behind.”
* • ’» *
Afternoon . . . visitors. . . .
Bill’s wife (poor, worried, hard-worked woman)
con es in her Sunday best, with a friend maybe, if
it’s Sunday, also Bill’s mates. “’Ullo, Bill !
how are yer poppin’ up?” and they all grin.
Bill’s wife—poor worn working woman—is rather
proud of the situation, if the truth were known ;
as thougli Bill had done something meriting
special recognition, instead of getting drunk and
being knocked down by a Newtown ’bus on
Saturday night.
And it’s pretty and refreshing to see Jim’s
sweetheart come to see him. How many first
sweet kisses are given, and how many love secrets
surprised in the casualty ward ?
There’s the sailor or foreigner who never has a
visitor nor receives a letter, but doesn’t expect
one, and so is contented. Yet I suppose the
sailor frets a bit for his mates in the fo’c’sle of
the ship that has sailed without him.
And there is the wreck who waits and hopes
and watches ever for the visitor or the letter that
never comes. He may have callers, new friends
and the old, half-forgotten friends, and has now a
chance to judge between the false friends and the
true. But he is past caring for these trifles ; he
scarcely heeds a word they say ; his eyes wander
over to the ward-door, watching for the one who
never comes. He watches till the last moment;
he watches after visiting hours ; he watches all
through “off’’days; he watches through impos-
sible hours of the night; and, in spite of medical
science, nursing, care, attention, and sympathy,
he wears himself out watching the ward-door for
the one who’ll never come.
“ We never know what’s behind.”
*•- • »
I think I know what’s behind it in many cases :
Woman’s Work. The accident brought about
through drink, and the drink the result of
woman’s work. I wonder how much it costs the
country to fix up woman’s work ?
Take the old hard-case who was carried out
swiftly just now, hidden in the black trough-
shaped stretcher. His wife nagged him all his
married life. She only thought of him for his
wages. He had been knocked down by a vehicle,
and for the first three or four days she insisted
that he was well enough to leave the hospital and
go to work. On the third or fourth he dressed
and made an attempt to leave the ward with her,
but, half-way down, he collapsed into a chair, and
was hurriedly undressed and tumbled into the
nearest vacant bed. The doctors didn’t know he
was so bad. Then, when she thought the case
was hopeless, her visits ceased altogether.
They kept him up with hypodermic injections ;
ahd, oh ! but the old soul was tough ! Helpless,
propped up on pillows, kept alive with broth and
the hypodermic syringe, you heard his old tele-
phone going all the time. His last remark was
that all men are fools, and he was severely
admonished for the dash. He wanted to get up,
but they wouldn’t let him. Then he wanted to sit
up with his feet on the floor, and they wouldn’t let
him. He said he’d smother if he lay down. They
put the boards up to keep him in, and he got
excited. The last I saw of him was his feet stuck
up on the edge of the sideboard in a very
immodest and defiant manner, to show the other
wrecks and the navigators in this channel of pain,
trouble and death, that old Hard-Front hadn’t
struck his colors yet.
Later on tne (tear old night nurse soothed him,
maybe he told her what was behind ; and, about
daylight, moving silently, she drew the screen
round the bed.
“ All men are fools.”
» * * •
Nurses ...
There were only two nurses there that I was
afraid of ; one was the head, and the other a
probationer, the most practical girl and the
greatest little bully that I ever came across —she
always gave me the impression that she’d spank
me, and spank me hard, if I her a back
word.
“ For (xod’s sake, girls,” I’d say to the nurses,
“go and have a rest, and let us have one 1 ” but
they took no notice. .
The little bully sticks a clinical thermometer
under my arm and claps the arm-down over it.
“Why don’t you fold your towel? she asks
sharply. „
“I—l beg your pardon, nurse, I forgot.
M Always fold your towel! ” she says, with a
snap.
I tty to say something funny as she takes out
the tnermometer.
“The under-head nurse says I’ve got no tem-
perature.”
“ Well, what then ? ”
“ Well, what’s the use of you trying to take it,
then ?
Most of the nurses are good-looking or pretty,
and some of them are so beautiful, with a strange
sort of spiritual beauty, that you never get tired
of watching them.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
When the Brisbane train had passed
Gatton on a recent trip a first-class passenger
suddenly broke his journey by stepping out into
space. Some allege thathehad just wakened up and
“ didn’t know where he are,” while others assert
that he jumped out. Anyhow, he hasn’t been
seen since, though the way of his going led to the
death of another man. Station-master Woodgate
of Gatton, on being wired, started along the line
to search for him, and while crossing a railway
bridge fell a distance of 60ft, and died shortly
after being discovered.


. A Great Sale.— Bacon and Co., Gunnedah,
report having sold for H. C. White, Esq., from his well-
known “Havilah” Estate, near Mudgee, 1165 cast stud
ewes, in lamb to Havilah stud rams, at 355. per head
cash ; purchaser, Thomas H. H. Goodwin, Esq., of Booloo-
cooroo, near Gunnedah. This is the first draft of cast
ewes sold from the famous Havilah stud for many years,
and Mr. Goodwin has secured the nucleus of what should
eventually prove to be one of the best stud flocks in the
Commonwealth, and is to be congratulated upon hi«
enterprise. The introduction of pure Havilah blood
sheep to our district will give small holders an oppor-
tunity of securing some of the progeny of this valuable
strain, which throughout Australia stands second to
none. In view of the drought so long prevailing, and un-
favorable prospects generally, this sale may be regarded
6- a reborn one.*
A cheerful critic protests against “ the pessimistical
moanings and groanings to which modern music is
inclined." 7
Melb. Just now Is suffering from the outbreak of bogus
pressmen who, more persistent than most of their class,
'ontrive to obtain tickets of admission to the most select
3 pots of public entertainment. Not long ago one push-
r'ul individual secured his name “on the doors’’ of one
ir two theatres on the shadowy ground that he was con-
nected with a journal that was going to be published. It
has not yet materialised. It would appear as if there
would shortly be more press than public at some of the
open-air shows
Mr. Oscar G. Roberts, of the well-known firm
of Fairfax and Roberts, who is lecturing around
Sydney’s environs on “Sight Failure: Its Cause and
Jure,” tells some remarkable yams about astigmatism.
Sir Edward Landseer, according to Mr. Roberts, used to
paint an animal with his left eye and hand, while with
his remaining optic and the other hand he was hard at
work on another portion of the picture. Gladstone had,
according to Mr. Roberts, the same extraordinary gift,
and use to write all his letters in duplicate, one with each
eye and hand, and in the course of his long life saved the
cost of several copying presses and alsp the leakage that
comes of trusting documents to be copied by a confi-
dential clerk.*
Amusements.
HALL, 8 Y D N E Y,
OWN
NEXT SATURDAY NEXT
1/- PEOPLE’S POPULAR CONCERTS. 1/-
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS.
Reserved Seats 25., at the White Rose Confectionery,
Pitt-street, corner of Royal Arcade.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S Latest Melodramatic Production,
THE COTTON KING.
POPULAR PRICES—3s„ 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
CRITERION THEATR E, SYDN E Y.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager Mr. Frank Weathersby.
THE LAU< SEASON.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS. . SEQUENT BURSTS OF
APPLAUSE greeted JOHN F. SHERIDAN as
WIDOW O'BRIEN
In the
Recoiu-o. caker,
FUN ON THE BRISTOL
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2 p.m.
PRICES —35., 25., Is. 6d. & Is. Box Plan and Day f- ale
at White Rose Confectionery, Royal Arcade, 269 Pitt-st.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
Manager, Mr. T. P. Hudson.
SATURDAY, FEB. 28, Return and Grand Re-Opening of
MISS NELLIE STEWART
with Mr. George Musgrove’s
LOITDOIT COMEDY CO.
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pV-ACE THEATRE. BYDNEY.
under the Management ,oi Messrs. WILLOUGHBY
and GEAOH.
THE WRONfi MR. WRIGHT
Has Arrived in Sydney at Last,
AND COMEJ TO STAY
For Many Weeks to Entertain the Populace.
A QOWAN, Manager.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY^
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Positively for 2 Weeks Only, THE MONTROSE COMPANY
Enthusiastic Reception of MR. JOHN COLEMAN.
Big Success of London’s Great Comedian and Raconteur,
MR. W. C. HUNTER.
An Entirely New and Original Repertoire by
MARK ANTHONY.
SPRY and MONTI, PEARL LOVELL, MALVENA
MOORE, PROFESSOR MACCANN, EDNA SEATON,
and all our Great Tivoli Co.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m. -
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
Enthusiastic Reception of MISS CRACIE EMMETT.
Splendid Success of FRED POPLAR, Ml*? KITTY WACER,
DIAMOND DUO.
ELSIE M'LACHLAN. LES WARTON. MAY LEWIS.
BIOSCOPE.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is. ‘fa Plan at Allan’s.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address —L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Amusements.
pRINCESS’B THEATRE, MELBOURNE. ~~
Sole Lessee ... .. Mr. George Musgrove,
Return of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
grand comic opera CO.
First Production In Melbourne of
THE FORTUNE TELLER,
A New and Original, Romantic Hungarian Comic Opera.
The Finest and Most Expensive Production of Comic
Opera Ever Given in Australia.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL,
Lessee
Melbourne!
„ Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. % William Anderson
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON'S Famous Dramatic Organisation
headed bv Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN
CROWDED NIGHTLY.
First Production in Australasia of the Latest Continental
Success, the Great Sensational Drama
IN THE SHADOW OF NIGHT.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
MELBOURNE ~
Manager, J. F. MacMahon.
BIJOU THEATRE,
Lessee, Mr. G. H. Hunt.
EVERY EVENING,
Australia’s Greatest Actor, ALFRED WOODS, and
the Celebrated English Actress, MAUD WILLIAMSON
supported by the Full Strength of the Famous’
WOODS-WILLIAMSON CO.
Maud Williamson’s Adaptation of Hall Caine’s
Remarkable Work,
THE CHRISTIA.KT.
AIETY THEATRE, MELBOURNE!! '
Lessee, Mr. G. H. Hunt. Reps., Mr. T. Perman.
STILL BOOMING,
THE CAIETY NOVELTY ENTERTAINERS.
The Moubrays, Mrs. Harry Carroll, Barton Maccabe
Cissilie Whitford, Nelly Sheddon, Marie Lloyd, Miss
Lilian Knight, &c.
Over 60 People Engaged.
And Everyone Repeatedly and Enthusiastically Encored.
Quick and Lively From Start to Finish.
PRICES—Is., 6d., and 3d, ; Reserved, 2s.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■* Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
Return of the ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.,
Inaugurating a New and Important Season of Comic
Opera in
T H E O E I S H A..
Interpreted by a Novel and Interesting Cast.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
■pOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
LAST APPEARANCES of
MDLLE.
ANTONIA DOLORES
in Melbourne, prior to her return to Europe.
TWO FAREWELL RECITALS,
SATURDAY EVENING, 28th FEBRUARY.
THURSDAY AFTERNOON, 6th MARCH.
MDLLE. ANTONIA DOLORES,
Assisted by MR. CLARANCE NEWELL
Reserved Seats, 6s. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Under Direction of MR. F. YERT.
Representative, MR. J. NEVIN TAIT.
Rupture
! Free Cure.
Wonderful Home Treatment That Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. S. Rice (Dept. 268), 8 * 9, Stonecutter
Street, London, E.C., has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, danger, operation, or
an hour's loss of time from the day’s work. To
avoid all questions of doubt, he sends free to every
V* i
'mm/.-
M\\m
mm
MR. JOHN WESLEY.
sufferer a free trial of his method, and there can be
no earthly reason why anyone, rich or poor, should
not avail themselves of this generous offer. As an ~
instance of this remarkable method, the cure of
Mr. John Wesley, Castle Lachlan, Inverary, Argyle,
is a welcome intelligence. Mr. Wesley is a well
preserved and highly respected gentleman, 72 years
of age. After a short use of the Rice method the
rupture healed entirely. To-day he’s sound as
a bell. If you kuow anyone ruptured you should
tell them of this wonderful method, which will
be sent for trial free of all costs.
©
s
■m'
FREE TRIAL
for 90 Days^^
Not a penny down. Simply drop me a postal
card, with your name and address, and I will forward
you at once one of my latest Improved High-Grade
Electric Belts. You can use it for three months, then
pay me if cured, and the price will be only half what
others ask for their inferior belts. If not cured, you
can return the Belt to me, at my expense, and YOUR WORD WILL DECIDE. lam
willing to trust you entirely, knowing that I have the Best and Most Perfect Belt u§ed in
Australia to-day, and nine men in ten always pay when cured.
I WILL TRUST YOU.
This modern Belt is the most perfect and complete ever invented. It will cure all
cases of Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and
Stomach Complaints, Nervousness, and all Weaknesses of Men and Women.
FREE
A beautiful, illustrated Medical Book, which should be read by all weak men. This
will be sent Free, sealed in plain wrapper, all charges prepaid. It is free, and oan be had
for the asking. " . ‘
Don't neglect this splendid opportunity to regain your health. We will make a
written diagnosis of your case FREE. Write To-day.
The Dr. J. H. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Menzies Alpha (W.A.) is a gradually improving
proposition. The four rich chutes of the Lady Shenton
are gradually dipping south into the Alpha property, and
will eventually all get there at depth. The Shenton,
under great disadvantages as to transport, firewood, &c.,
has distributed £120,000 in divs., so that the outlook for
the Alpha looks highly promising. In January mine pro-
duced 805 oz. from 421 tons treated. Co. is, however,
financially weak and badly equipped, and would have to
be reconstructed to be put on a satisfactory basis. The
two mines are under one manager, and the underground
workings are connected, so that possibly the best policy
would be for the two co.’s to amalgamate; such a step
would materially improve the position of both concerns.
• • * •
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) has just had its
best half-year since 1898, the last year in which it dis-
tributed 28. per share. As the co. also added a 6-head
battery, self-feeders, rock-breaker and rock-drills out of
profits, it is now better equipped than ever, for clean
working. The developments both above and below the
446 ft. level are highly satisfactory, and good ore is being
broken from both the hanging and footwall lodes. The
ore reserves are bigger than ever, so that regular divs.
seem to be assured for some time to come. As co. isnow
treating about 750 tons monthly for a yield of fully
1200ozs. it looks as if current year’s divs. would tot up to
3s. a share.
s s » 1
The Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.) has struck
a supply of water estimated at 5000 gallons daily in its
main shaft at 300 ft. This mine is regarded as one of the
best outside of Kalgoorlie, all the stone taken out in
development having averaged 3oz. over the plates. The
Kalgoorlie syndicate, which owns the show, appears to
have been born tired, as it has taken three years to Sink
the main shaft 300 ft. A large quantity of similar stone
to that treated is developed, and it is now proposed to
erect a m il, and treat the stone on the spot instead of
paying heavy charges for carting. Up to now the Davy-
hurst district has been regarded as barren of water, and
this find may put new life into prospectors. If this mine
had been held by an energetic co. it would long ere this
have been a large and regular producer.
• • • *
The little Victor mine, Mt. Usher, on the old
Crocodile field, Rockhampton (Q.), seems a property better
than many in that district. In the hands of a syndicate
which divides up every available cent after each crush-
ing, vyith development work consistently left till rooting
out stone makes a little more absolutely necessary, and
with cost of crushing at a public mill tacked on to cartage
and unduly heavy working expenses accruing from abso-
lute lack of any machinery whatsoever, the Victor has,
for the last couple of years, paid its way, besides yielding
steady dividends of a very gratifying character to the
syndicate. Crushings run consistently over the ounce
from battery, with about 10 per cent, of concentrates
ranging between 3 and soz. The expensively equipped
Mt. Usher shows up very badly in comparison.
* • » •
London mining papers of 16th January contain
the following cable from Langford, chairman of Briseis :
“ After making a most thorough examination my opinion
is Fraser's policy excellent. Doing splendid work. The
present output is easily obtained. There is no doubt as
to wisdom of change of management. Am writing fully."
Which seems rough on Hawley, the late manager.
Langford’s approval of change of management had the
immediate effect of knocking down the shares, and they
have been on the down-grade ever since. They are being
panned out wholesale in Melbourne. The “ wisdom ” of
the change of management is not obvious to the dis-
interested outsider, and, so far, would-be boomsters have
not profited by it. Hawley was told that he must
increase the output of tin, which he declined to do, as
any effort in that direction would have materially inter-
fered with preparations for systematic operations. Im-
portant negotiations are said to be proceeding between
Briseis and Brothers Home co’s for joint working, which
ought to be mutually advantageous. Without some such
arrangement Briseis will soon be in trouble as to the dis-
posal- of debris from a large section of its property.
Briseis is unquestionably a big proposition, if rightly
handled, but looks in peril of being wrecked on Boom
Bluff. ' '
• • •
Tasmania G.M. Co.’s record to date : 563,3070 z.
from 484,224 tons ; value £2,066,654 ; divs. £772,071.
Last half-year : 20,319 tons yielded 13.4460 z. ; value
£50,273 ; divs. £3OOO. Cost of pumping, £15,26-’, equal
to ss. sd. per ton of ore. If the output had not been
increased, cost would have been 18s. Id. per ton.
Manager reports that there is “ no evidence of the mine’s
lode becoming poor or diminishing in width as depth is
attained.” Proposed English deal declared off owing to
legal difficulties.
• • * *
Moon stocks still to the fore at Bendigo. New
Moon looking particularly well and will give South N.M.
a close run for first place on the div. list this year.
Bendigo’s hope lies in this end of the field, which is now
being thoroughly prospected after being neglected for
nearly half-a-century.
* * • ' '•
Castlemaniacs have had their nerves badly
shaken by Cumberland and Phnenix. Battery started a
few days ago. Champagne flowed freely enough to run a
sluicing claim. Share values corresponded with the
ebullitions of carbonic gas, but what a difference there
was in the morning, when the first clean-up took place.
Writer worked in this ground 25 years ago. It is as
patchy as Joseph’s coat! For that reason, stock may
become a good gambling one
• • • •
“Merudic” writesln “B. 7/2/03,” referring
tq the |ease title question, you say no one has yet cited-
afi instance where a lease was unjustly forfeited. Some
years back the machinery, &c., of the Clunes Co.,
which had been shut down, were sold by auction, and
bought by Messrs. Mi.ler and Co., machinery merchants*
Ballarat, for purpose of removing and re-selling 'the
machinery, and with no intention of working the mines.
Thinking, however, there might yet be something in
them, it was decided to try the South Clunes property
before removing the plants, and a considerable amount of
monej' was spent, which proved that there was yet plenty
of payable stone. But the mines had been so worked in
the past, that heavy expenditure On pumping machinery,
and a long period of unproductive labor were necessary
before-payable results could-be hoped for. Efforts had
been made to obtain capital in Melbourne, before
selling, in ord r to carry on, but without avail, and
for some years Mr. T. Cornish had tried in London with-
out success. Eventually Mr. John Lowles was i duced to
take the matter up, and a sum of £2500 was remitted to
his son here to commence work with. While these
negotiations were going on, application for forfeiture had
been made, and deputations from Clunes had waited
on the Minister urging it. The leases were forfeited,
although the Minister was aware the money was here and
the applicant for forfeiture could show no bona fides and
only promised to obtain capital within a certa n time. The
result was that all machinery was removed, and the mines
have bean idle ever since ; the £15,000 subscribed in Lon-
don were put into a Maldon mine, which has been a failure.
Had this money been spent on the South Clunes there is
little doubt it would have been working to-day and
returning profits. Messrs. Miller and co. crushed a large
quantity of stone, and proved that there were large quan-
tities left above the old workings, if the water could be
coped with (this, of course, was only a question of funds).
I think this is one instance, and people can draw their own
inferences. What is complained of is the absolute power
left in the Minister’s hands. He may be strictly
honorable, but, on the other hand, he may not;
and in case he should not be (recent events show
Ministers are not always all that could be desired), it is
as well that his powers should be limited. I can give you
one or two other instances of injustice with regard to
lease matters that have occurred during seven years resi-
dence here, and am of opinion that an inquiry into the
past working of the Dept, would, on the evidence that
could be adduced, lead to some extremely interesting
revelations.- [“ Mundic” is evidently not aware that the
English-owned Port Philip Co., after making enormous
profits out of thq property, refused to use funds in hand
to develop the m»f They thought so little of it that
they used reserve funds to buy a mine in another part of
the world. By resorting to all manner of devices, they
retained possession of the property for many years, trust-
ing to the pluck and enterprise of local co’g to find some-
thing new. “ Mundic " disproves his own case in his
admission that the local man who purchased the leases
made an effort to work them. Writer agrees with “ Mun-
dic ” that an inquiry as to why the Clunes leases were
allowed to be shepherded so long would remit in some
“interesting revelations.” Next case of injustice,
please 1]
At Poverty Point.
Recent Trisco Chronicle, commenting: on the present?
of Royalty to artists, relates that Melba, when in Yankee
land, used to exhibit a brooch given her by the late
Queen Victoria on the occasion of her visit to Windsoi
Castle. The brooch is said to be of the description that
Billy, the milk-youth, givesi his donah, and theCiißONicu-
states that it used to be a standing joke with Melba tt
ask people to guess its value.
Deceased pantomimist Charles Lauri’s first engage
ment was with Hollingshed at the old Westministei
Theatre. On applying, he m(et at first with a refusal
but, while talking to Hollingshed, he lifted his fooi
and scratched his ear therewfch in such an off-hand
everyday fashion, that he was engaged on the spot to
play the “Cat ” in “Dick Whittington.” He continued
to play animals till his death. Panto runs in the Lauri
family; the great grand-father and great grand-mothei
were pantomimists, and famous in their day. The story
of Charles Lauri shows that the mummer has at least some
advantage over, say, the clerk. The unemployed book-
keeper who asked the A. M.P. Society for a billet and was
refused, might scratch his ear with both feet sim-
ultaneously on the steps of the big office in Pitt-street for
a whole day without improving his prospects in the
least.
Senator Higgs in Melbourne Argus :— * One commences
to understand the reason of Mr. George Reid’s popularity.
Music, sir, music. Mr. Reid minus the music would not
attract so many, but Mr. Reid plus a free organ recital
for those who do not want a reserved seat will fill the
Melbourne Town Hall to its utmost seating capacity. Is
it not too bad on the part of a politician of Mr. Reid’s
standing to compete against the theatrical and kindred
professions? Instead of his advertisement appearing in
the Argus under the heading of ‘ Meetings, &c,’ It is
placed in the category of Amusements,’ in the same
columns as Mr. Harry Rickards’ screaming farcical
comedy • Mrs. Murphy’s Second Husband,’ and other ad-
vertisements concerning dancing, gipsy fortune-telling,
and face massage, showing clearly that Mr. Reid hopes to
get the amusement-loving public to give him a hand in
his forlorn hope of trying to down the Barton Admin-
istration."
What strikes one as being most human in the farcical
character of Sites in the “Wrokig Mr. Wright" is the
aggressive robustness of that 45-year-old. How he flares
up at the suggestion of his having left town in search of
health 1 Slaps his chest and asks whether he looks like a
sickly man. Health ! —he’s got “ health for sale.” At
the age of 45 (the writer speaks feelingly) a full-blooded
Sites invariably slaps his shirt front if anyone ventures an
aspersion on his manly vigor. He wants it distinctly
understood that he never felt so strong in his life before,
and never intends to weaken. He has arrived at the
time for emphasising his immortality. And his young
friends, who will be 45 themselves some day, are expected
to take the matured rooster seriously, i
A beer-drinking contest was advertised to take place
in Adelaide on Saturday, Feb. 14, but the weather was
so rainy and cold that the momentous event was post-
poned. The publican stated that he had a man who,
under favorable conditions, could drink 19 pints of ale in
three hours. Nothing very wonderful. One of the old-
time comps, in the Advertiser office is said to have drunk
18 pines in one hour.
Albert Marsh—presumably the same who was the
original blood-curdling “ King of Crime " in Sydney—
lately produced a new three-act farce at one of the
English sea-side theatres. The easte included Charles
Glenney, G. W. Anson, Miss Itatfia Conti, and Pollie
Emery, all of whom are well-remembered in Australia.
Miss Conti is least remembered. She came with the
Broughs some years ago. Played the heroine in “ The
Happy Life,” and was one of the wrangling sisters of
Brough’s serio-comic Napoleon.
Maggie Stirling’s fine voice, considerably polished by
Marchesi, appears to be making its way in England. She
got glowing notices for her singing at a Richter and Hallfe
Concert at Manchester, with the result that a select
musical cult in London has begun to bring her along.
During the years since she left this country, Maggie
Stirling has had to battle hard for a chance to get herself
really known. Her occasional “ successess ” —reported
by cable—were worth very little to the struggling mezzo-
soprano. Now she has at least made a favorable im-
pression.ln quarters where influential people pass judg-
ment.
“ Cascart ”: I saw “ Zaza" a second time last night.
Went to the amp hitheatre, which was packed to the
ceiling, and mostly with women. Women, women every-
where. I counted 21 in one row, with but one man
amongst them ; another row contained 30 women with
but two men ; and in another row, from end to end,
there were 45 women and nine men. What is there in
this play that fasesnates women so much ? Is it the un-
veiled naughtiness of the play, or the presentment of a
heroine who emerges Purified from a burning fiery fur-
nace of improper Love. Every girl has a purely theoretical
admiration for the heroine who is Purified.
“Melb.”: Opinion is pretty general that there is no
warrant for sending Miss Dolly Castles to Europe. There
are 40 voices in this city and suburbs as good. The fierce
light pf Melba, and the lambent flame of Dolores, have
tried Amy Castles. She came out worthily, but vet is not
a “cert” for the very front, although I will say she is
intrinsically better than Lalla Miranda or Frances
Saville. Dolly just has obstinate pluck. <
Dolores, following Melba at a distance of three weeks or
so, scored a tremendous success in the West on her
return visit. Crowds were turned away from her first
concert at* Perth after £250 had been wedged into the
hall. The Melba boom, with its resultant booming of
Dolores, considerably impoverished the market for ordi-
nary shows.
May Yoh<|, the divorced wife of Lord Francis Hope, has
lodged a claim for £9OOO against his lordship’s insolvent
estate.
The Wirths got £4OO under their canvas at Broken
Hill, on the same dust-heap where the Fitzs. made their
record a few years ago.
Re Elton and Lauri (“ Haresfoot,” notwithstanding).
Lauri at his best has never approached Elton at his best
in the creation of parts in comic opera. For example,
compare Elton as Lurcher, Polydore Poupart, the thief
in “Ermine,” in “Marjorie,” and,as Jack Point, with
Lauri in “La Poupefc, “ Geisha," “Ma Mie Rosette,”
“ Rose of Persia.” Lauri at his worst is an artificial
boisterous humorist, with a good singing voice and clever
feet, and an irritating habit of not allowing his audience
to see the joke for themselves—in fact, the apotheosis of a
clown. Elton never clowned even when under great
temptation, as in “ Morocco Bound.” Finally, as to
artistic restraint. Compare Elton’s Duke of Plaza-Toro,
in which the actor allowed Gilbert’s humor to perco ate
through him and to emerge unadulterated, with the
lamentable blasphemy of Lauri’s boisterous Ko-Ko—as
played in Melbourne, anyhow. —Esmi.
The sad little Victorian town of Ararat seems to be
rather an unfortunate place for “poverty-pointers” to
wander into. Recently a “ Royal Dramatic Company ”
that had been playing to withered wheatfields, sun-dried
sheepskins, and sand-filled tanks up in the Mallee coun-
try drifted Ararat-wards to make a rise. It had just left
without the rise when the Woods-Williamson co. arrived
to give “ The Christian ” and “ A Woman’s Sin,” but on
the second.night the town-clerk and the management
disagreed badly about something, and there was trouble.
When the play-going crowd arrived it found the hall in
darkness and Alf ”on the steps explaining what he
thought, of Ararat officials. Mayor Wild came along and
tried to square matters, but A.'W. only tossed his long
hair a little farther back, and refused to be comforted.
However, after a long and fierce interview out in the
dimly-lighted streets, Hall Caine’s powerful work started
about 9 p.m. But Ararat didn’t care much about Hall
Caine’s powerful work by this time. What it had
expected to see was Alf. Woods pounding the Mayor and
town-clerk simultaneously in the street ; and the loss of
that free show grieved it badly.


MEN’S DISEASES.
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
The Famous Specialist.
We have cured Hundreds of
Cases like Yours II
riIHERE is nothing gained in employing an un-
practical person to do an expert’s task. Nine
# times, in ten, EAIRTJRE follows. The average
physician is oftentimes an amateur in the treat-
ment of grave nerve diseases. His time is so fully
occupied in treating a full assortment of human ills
that he cannot devote special study to any particular
branch of practice. Some diseases are sufficiently
simple as to require only the general knowledge
obtained in colleges and general practice.
The More Complex and Perplexing Ailments
are not always favored by the family doctor. He pre-
fers to be relieved of tasks which call for special know-
ledge and special skill.
f
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE,
Physician-in-Chief.
The true SPECIALIST is a physician who is absolutely expert in the treatment of a few diseases. He knows all
about the complaints he treats, and he supervises difficult cases with the same certainty with wnich the general practitioner
treats a common ailment. , 6 *
For over 30 Years we have been treating Nerve Diseases.
We began our special work after thorough training in some of the best known colleges abroad. We have cured more
men of their troubles than any association of men in Australia. You can come to us feeling certain that we know -just
what to do, that you will be free from malpractice and certain of a cure if one remains for you. J
WEAKNESS.
The Functional derangement, commonly
termed “WEAKNESS,” is generally a direct
result from inflammation causing severe pro-
static troubles. The nerve parts governing
the afflicted centres require stimulating.
Sound medical treatment under the
supervision of a skilled SPECIALIST is
required, combined with the wearing of our
specially tested Electric “INVIGORATOR”
or Belt, which pours a current of vital energy
into the weak parts, giving them new life and
strength. Over ninety per cent, of our cases
have been completely cured in this manner.
This “INVIGORATOR,” the best in Aus-
tralia, is ONE POUND ONLY. It is a
genuine Electric Belt, and the only one sold
in Australian medical practice locally certifica-
ted. Duty is paid free to all Australian States.
VARICOCELE.
Men who have for years been afflicted with
Varicocele, can come to us with com-
plete assurance that we will effect a per-
manent cure in a few week’s time, by a
painless and absolutely harmless method.
There is no dangerous operation or detention
from business. We regard each case as a
means of proving our superior skill, and show-
ing the needlessness of a surgical operation.
We will cure you quickly, thoroughly, and
without the need of hospital care.
BLOOD POISON.
There are many phases of this complaint
and its origin is sometimes obscure. No
man should trifle if he suffers from any
disorder of the blood. An unhealthy state of
the life fluid of the body sometimes imparts
the worst form of physical and mental disease.
We have special methods of cure. We treat
successfully those cases aggravated by the
tampering of others.
rupture.
Since our practice commenced we have
treated over 2500 cases of Rupture. We cure
many cases without cutting or painful opera-
tions. Our patients seldom have to wear
trusses after our treatment. Of course there
are some cases in which a truss must be worn,
and for those we have on hand the finest,
cheapest, and most comfortable kinds yet
devised by science.
mm
A Bond of £lOOO.
We are under a guarantee bond of £lOOO to faithfully perform all or
any medical contracts that we may enter into. We do not consider any
man cured until he asserts it personally or sends in his testimonial. Of
these we have many thousands, of which a few extracts are here published.
Our Medical Institute, supervised by a Staff'of Skilled SPECIALISTS,
is the most scientific in Australia. Over £lOO,OOO lias been expended
upon it. Its medical literature embraces an annual disbursement of 25,000
volumes of medical works.
When under treatment you are under the care of an internationally-
registered SPECIALIST, who holds nine diplomas and certificates of
qualification, and registration by Australian, English and American Boards.
Sir Dominic Corrigan, Bart., Physician to the late Queen, says of
him : “I entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace respecting his profes-
sional qualifications.”
Read what the
Cured Say!
MR. PHILIP NEWBURY,
the great English tenor, now starring in the leading
musical Ixrndon, writes :
“ Fob »ears I have suffered from uric acid
in the blood. Thanks to the wonderful
efficacy of your Electric ‘ INVIGORATOR,*
I am now completely cured.
(Signed) “ PHILIP NEWBURY.”
MR. CHAS. KENNINGHAM.
principal tenor, Royal English Opera Company,
Savoy Theatre, London, and Royal Comic Opera
Company, Sydney, testifies :
“I was afflicted for years by insomnia. I
wore your Electric ‘Belt* constantly, with
the result that I now sleep well, and my
general health and appetite are now improved.
(Sgd.) “CHARLES KENNINGHAM.”
A Victorian says:
“ Warwillah, Hawkesdale, Victoria.
“ I beg to acknowledge receipt of Eleotrio
‘INVIGORATOR,’ which I have used ac-
cording to instructions, and find I sleep much
better. I must admit I feel a different man
to what I did when I commenced your treat-
ment. “ Yours faithfully,
“H. J. SHERRING.”
Newcastle Man writes!
“Merewether, Newcastle.
“Please forward me more medicines. I
am still improving. I think those ‘ INVI-
GORATORS ’of yours are very good. I
have not had any pains in my shoulders this
last fortnight. Am pretty well right again.
“ Yours truly,
“WILLIAM DAVIES.”
A New Zealander attests:
“ Limestone Island,
“Auckland, N.Z.
“Your ‘Belt’ came to hand all right. I
am wearing it according to instructions. I
feel much better. It seems to make me sleep
well since applying it.
“ Yours sincerely,
“H. HEWLETT.”
If you are interested in these cases,
write for special brochure, illus rated.
You may find there a case similar to
your own.
A\
m
ces
Gene
Dise
A
fli^lToNWicil*
ijlijil COMSULTIMt
l»W COITION. 7
This Book is Your Best Friend,
This famous work is now in its tenth edition. “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES” was first published in 1901. Since
that time over 500,000 volumes have been issued throughout Australia. It is a handsome, exhaustive work, containing over 550
pages letterpress and 150 MEDICAL PLATES. A chapter on Anatomy covers 30 pages. There are life-size diagrams of the
human body and its various functions. There are over 30 chapters upon general diseases, and 20 additional articles upon the
treatment of persons afflicted with SNAKE-BITE, SUNSTROKE, PLAGUE, FEVERS, ABSCESS, CONSUMPTION,
BLOOD DISEASES, WEAKNESS IN MEN, INSOMNIA, Etc., Etc.
This Magnificent Work will be POSTED FREE to any Address in Australia on
receipt of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS. No Further Charge.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D , L.R.C.P , E., L.F.P.B , E., L.M , Physician-in-Chief.
M
edicincs packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly attended to.


In “All About Burns, Philp and Co.
Limited,” the enterprising firm in question has
turned out one of the handsomest and most useful
booklets of its kind that The Bulletin has seen.
As indicated by the title, the origin, progress,
and present development of the firm’s business
are primarily dealt with, but beyond this there is
much to interest and instruct. First, is pre-
sented a synopsis of the leading agencies held by
B. P. & Co., including—besides the Australian
Inter-State Coastal, and Pacific Island Lines—the
Oceanic Line (to U.S. via Maoriland), the Occi-
dental and Oriental, the Pacific Mail, the Queens-
land (London via Torres Straits), the Nippon
Yusen Kaisha, the Eastern and Australian (to
Japan), the British India, and the Netherlands
B'hursday Island to Singapore, via Timor and the
utch Indies). Full information is supplied, as
regards these and other lines, concerning vessels,
passages, ports of csll, and all particulars needful
for intendmgtravellers. Interesting descriptions—
freely illustrated—are given of the numerous
places where the firm’s branches are located, and
British New Guinea is dealt with at considerable
length. There are also maps of the Pacific
Islands, Australia (showing steam-routes), Torres
Straits, the China Straits, New Guinea, the Malay
Archipelago, and a couple of comprehensive route
charts covering the greater portion of the globe.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 page
The Best Collection of Short Stories and Literary
Sketches yet produced in Australia. Price, 4s. 6d.;
postage, 6d.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. v
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about, the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough wag not gevere, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked."—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cin for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Viotoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Yio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who iB suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John 8. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katanga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne's
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having tieen tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case,
cured by one small bottle.
Mr. W. O. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
X remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria,
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yourssincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to tryHearne's
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine qui
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:— 1 I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
eturn of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
BRANCH DEPOT
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
THE
SMELTING * REFINING GO. of
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
TRALIA
1901, Limited.
V v ur-
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay* Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
For all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
O & *
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
ixindon Medical Record.
‘“Bengep*B Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger’s
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritiv*. and : igastible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t > find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger s
Food ’ everywhere.”
" If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


Just a Word or Two with you
on the Watch Question.
|[IRST cost should not be the largest saying on a Watch-the real economy
of honest wear and correct timekeeping is the true test of value. The
man who pays a little price for a Watch gets but little satisfaction-
pt' m wVc T ? rd y expect more * We hav€ built up a reputation for
Rehab e Watches and we intend to keep it by selling only the dependable kini.
We illustrate and describe a few Watches here—for others see our large
Catalogue, which we send free to anyone who cares to send for it.
w
<A v
No. Glooo.—This is a particu-
larly neat little Jewelled
Movement Steel-cased Keyless
Watch for a lady; price,
£1 2s. 6d.
12
11
10
uaw
4
Lady’s Key-Wind, Solid Silver, Engraved
Case, Jewelled Movement Watch, with
Silver Dial, exquisitely deooated with
Gold; price, £2 2s.
Lady’s High Quality, Keyless,
Hunting Waltham Lever Watch,
Solid Silver, Engraved Cases, and
(or extra strength Case is fitted
with Solid Gold Joints ; price,
JE4.
The Waltham Lever Watch, with Fine Jewelled Movement and Solid
Silver Hunting Case, Keyless, Brequet Spring, Compensation Balance,
Price £3 10s.
The “ Princess” 18ct. Gold Hunting-
Cased Watch, with a thoroughly good
Jewelled Movement : price, £5 10s.
If Open Face, £4 10s Silver
Hunting, £2 10s. Open Face, £2.
No. F9so.—The Silver “Triumph'* Watch,
suitable for men or boys, Jewelled Movement,
Keyless, Solid Silver Case ; price, £1 10s. In
Nickel Silver Case, 18s. 6d.
/
3
I
m
The “Eclipse” Watch, Key-wind, Capped and Jewelled
Movement, Strong Solid Silver Hunting Cases, price £2.
Open Face, £1 10s. Lady’s Sizes, with Engraved Case at
the same prices.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free*
No. F934.—A f-Plate, Jewelltd Movement,
Keyless, Solid Silver, Hunting lase, English
Lever Watch, with Compensation Balance and
Brequet Hair Spring ; pr.ce,
£4 10s.
No. E9666.—A Highly-polished, Steel-
cased, Keyless, Open Face, Crystal
Glass Lever Watch for Ladies. It has
a First-class, Jewelled Lever Move-
ment ; price, j? 2 ss.
■:AhWAYSP
YOURMONLY^
jgWORTHH
3
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL ♦ ♦ * .
TALKING MACHINES
. * BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
GKAHOPIOIE
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone $ Typewriter [td.
This is a “ JUNIOR fIONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
BT is well to remember this when discussing the artistic merit of sound reproducing contrivances. There is little
; difficulty in reproducing a sound. There is, however, a gigantic difficulty in reproducing good music, and the actual
I voices of famous singers. We would ask you to remember that THE GRAMOPHONE made by The Gramophone
and Typewriter Ltd. does this. How do we do it ? Why, because we have unlimited capital at our back, and because
we do not hesitate to obtain the services of the finest and most celebrated artistes of the day to sing for us. The better the
artiste the better the song. The public are the best judges in the world of tne intrinsic value of an article. We are selling
FIVE MILLION RECORDS
per annum and why ? Because our records are real reproductions of these singers. Our catalogue includes records made
by Carusa, Platon, Renaud, David Bispham, Ben Davies, Andrew Black, Richard Green, Joseph O’Mara, Mesdames Calve,
Suzanne Adams, Kirby Lunn, Esther Palliser, Percival Allen, Connie Ediss, and Marie Tempest. Also Dan Leno, George
Robey, Louis Bradfield, and Maurice Earkoa, besides hundreds of others.
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND; Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Represented all over
World.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Somebody named M. M. Phillips, “ Vice-
President of the Metropolitan Committee of the
Australian Natives’ Association,” is of opinion
that “in the present financial condition of Aus-
tralia it is inadvisable to incur the cost of creating
a new Federal capital,” and proposes to raise a
discussion as to the advisability of altering the
Constitution to allow of Sydney being the capital
for the next 50 years. Well, that sounds all right
as far as it goes, but it sets one wondering whether
Mr. Phillips’ tender consideration for “our pre-
sent financial condition ” may not have something
to do with a fear that —borrowing having been
sternly discountenanced by the Federal Labor
party —the wherewith to erect the new capital
may not be looked for from a Federal graduated
land and income tax. We have heard and seen so
much of the man who had a tender consideration
for his country when such consideration meant
extra tenderness for himself, that we look with
suspicion on the man who would be extra tender
in a tearful voice. Also, why leave the expense of
erecting the capital to the next generation in such
a mean fashion —it will have to bear enough of
the cost, anyway, before all is paid up to pawn-
broker Bull in the next couple of hundred years.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearl 3 and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
THE PIANOLA
What
It
fleans
To
You
If you could suddenly be provided with the ability to play the
piano perfectly, and to retain the ability without the necessity of constant
practice, would you not gladly pay £6O ?
The PIANOLA will provide this wonderful ability. It will give
to any one absolute control over the piano.
It will enable you to play your piano, although you may not have
played one note in your life.
No musical knowledge is necessary and the possessor of a PIANOLA
finds himself master of a technique greater than that of any artist that
ever lived.
Is it not worth while to consider the advisability of owning a
PIANOLA yourself ? If you will write us, we will mail you free a
catalogue describing the instrument. When writing, ask for Catalogue “B.”
The price of the Pianola is £6O for prompt cash, or £65 &r
moderate monthly payments.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SYDNEY : 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
APPENDICITIS PREVENTED.
Liver, Kidneys and Bowels Regulated.
IT is now common knowledge that the
term Appendicitis is applied to in-
flammation of that portion of the
bowel known as the appendix, and is
generally caused by the accumulation of
faecal matter, which in course of time
becomes hardened into a concrete mass.
Every stage of life, every condition of
existence, is susceptible to this disorder.
The infant, the adult and the senile,
the rich, the middle class and the poor,
the King and the peasant, are all subject
to imperfect nutrition, faulty assimila-
tion, and the ailments arising therefrom.
The Court Chemist to
His Majesty King Edward VIL,
And to the late German Emperor Frederick, King' of Prussia, and to
other Foreign Courts, Mr. Frank R. Squire, of San Remo, while
on his holiday in England, writes;
“ London, July 9th, 1902.
“Messrs. S. Kutnow & Co., Ltd.
“Gentlemen, —I thank you for your promptitude in sending your Kutnow’s
Powder asked for; it is one of the most useful remedies I know, and I never like to be
without it. “ I am, Gentlemen, yours faithfully,
“ FRANK R. SQUIRE.”
Success in business or the profession,
or in any walk in life, depends very
largely upon the state of health.
All who work with the brain value
health, and all who value health take
Kutnow’s Powder. , *
To be brief, the chief merit of Kut-
now’s Powder is the remarkable power it
possesses of effectively cleansing the
bowels, stimulating the liver, clearing the
kidneys, irrigating the organs, and ex-
pelling all poisonous and putrefying
deposits which may have accumulated in
the system.
Beneficial Effects in
Appendicities.
GALLOWAY KYLE, Esq., F.R.S.L., See., Editor of The
County Monthly and The Bkitish and Northern Magazine,
.writes: —
“July 3rd, 1902.
“Sirs, —I have used your Kutnow’s Powder after an attack of
appendicitis, and as a preventive to further attacks have found it
beneficial and satisfactory. In regulating stomachic disorders inci-
dental to a sedentary life, too. it has proved most useful, and the
preparation is agreeable and does not cause any discomfort. —Faith-
fully yours, “ Galloway Kyle.”
And again, on July 10th, 1902, writes : —
“I believe the Powder saved me from a further attack of appendicitis
lately, and has rendered me less liable to attacks. —Faithfully yours,
“Galloway Kyle.”
Accept no
Fraudulent Substitutes.
CAUTION.—There are some unscrupulous
dealers who, for the sake of extra profit, try to
sell substitutes of Kutnow’s Powder. These may
be offered for a few pence less, but are worthless,
and consequently dear at any price. Firmly insist
upon having Kutnow’s Powder, and do not allow
yourself to be persuaded to accept any substitute.
Accept only the Genuine
KUTNOW’S POWDER.
The International
Journal of Surgery
SAYS :
‘‘ Despite the great progress in medical science, especially in sur-
gery, the most skilful operator has yet to combat with the distressing
nausea patients are subject to after the use of anaesthetics, which often
considerably retards recovery.
“Our readers will, therefore, be pleased to have their attention
called to a very simple remedy to overcome this difficulty, which they
will find in Kutnow’s Powder, a prophylactic and antiseptic aperient,
which was extensively used and highly valued by the late Lawson
Tait.
“Should the physician desire a peristaltic action within 24 to 30
hours, t le doses should be repeated about every two hours, yielding
most gratifying results without any danger or discomfort.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtained from all Chemists and Medicine Stores throughout the World.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO.. Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
[2-8] ' " ,
A Tea-Time Trifle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Were you never in love with Mrs. Pagette?”
said Mollie over her clasped hands to me. “It
would be a sin whose iniquity would plead for
itself.”
“ Once,” I said sentimentally, “ I was.”
“ I thought so,” said Mollie, delightedly, help-
ing herself to sugar. “And now I want to hear
all about it.”
“Oh,” said I, a trifle blankly, “ do you?”
*' Yes,” said Mollie determinedly.
“There’s really nothing much to tell,” I said
rather foolishly.
“ Well ? ” from Mollie firmly.
“Eh?” I said.
“ I’m waiting,” she said reproachfully.
“Oh, well,” I began weakly.
“When did it start?” Mollie interrupted,
crumbling a biscuit.
“ Oh, at a theatre-party,” I began vaguely,
“and I think she asked me to fasten a bracelet.
She had the dearest, dimpled Wrists ” —I noticed
Mollie glance surreptitiously at her own. “Just
here,” I added, laying a hand on hers.
“ Don’t be absurd,” she answered with dignity,
drawing away. But she didn’t seem displeased.
“ Go on,” she said encouragingly.
“ Certainly,” I replied, edging my chair nearer
and leaning over for her hand.
“No, not that way,” she laughed, flushing.
“Besides, those palms are not a screen. About
Mrs. Pagette—after the theatre ? ”
“ I saw her home,” I replied, eyeing the palms
with disgust. “She said pathetically that she
was lonely.” (Here I may be mistaken in think-
ing Mollie sniffed.) “They had only been mar-
ried a year,” I put in hastily, “and her husband
was paying a flying visit to Maoriland.”
“Urn,” said Mollie, taking another lump of
sugar. (She hates her tea sweet).
“ Next day I called,” I said tentatively.
“Um !”
“ And the next.”
A pause. “ And—the next ? ” drily.
“ I suppose so,” desperately.
“Yes?”
“Well, I went about with her. You know—
the usual thing.”
A negative raising of eyebrows.
“ Oh, there’s nothing to tell,” I said irritably.
“ By Jove, there’s not.”
“Well?” rather icily.
“ There’s nothing,” I returned injuredly, tilting
my chair back and drumming on the table. “ I
suppose I thought she meant to amuse herself.
But all the time I could never understand her in-
nocence quite. So we went steady and we trotted
round together like —like brother and sister.” A
sarcastic smile from Mollie opposite (it brought
out no dimples) was irritating.
“It was bewildering,” I went on, tilting
further, “ running round in a circle and always
arriving at the place you started from.”
“I know that feeling,” said Mollie, sweetly.
“George Danvers taught me that.”
“ The dickens he did,” I said, coming down
with a bang.”
“ Go on,” said Mollie, beaming.
“ Well, I did,” I said viciously, “and it didn’t
come to much. Before the beginning came the
end. One day I went, and I found her crying in
a ohair, and (reflectively)she was awfully pretty! ”
(No help from Mollie). “And (desperately) if a
fellow finds a pretty woman crying, it knocks
him off his perch and he’s got to comfort or kiss
her, or something.”
“ Indeed ! ” in a frozen voice.
“ Well, I tried it on anyway,” I said swiftly,
“ and ”
“Succeeded?” from Mollie, with the tiniest
yawn.
“No, by Jove, I didn’t,” I said, ruefully, one
hand furtively at my ear. “She blew my world
to pieces. How dared I? How wasa fellow to know!
And she thought I was a friend ? I thought so,
too, but didn’t venture my opinion. And she was
only crying because Jack was coming home, and
she was so glad. That knocked me over. Not
that I was ever hard hit (stealing a glance oppo-
site) but my vanity had miscalculated. I had the
sense not to apologise and—came away. She has
forgiven me now, to the extent of a bow.” (A
?ause.) “ But I never really admired fair hair,”
added, tentatively, “or the ingenue type.
And (an afterthought) her hands are not very
beautiful, and (confidentially) she often had a
cold.”
A smile crept suddenly round Mollie’s mouth.
It’s her best point, and she knows it.
“ And you know,” I said, lowering my voice
and edging nearer, “I never liked her China-blue
eyes.”
“ Why, they’re brown,” said Mollie, lifting
eyes into which the smile had danced to mine.
“Are they? I forgot,” I said, hypocritically,
bringing my chair quite round.
I have often wondered since if those palms were
a complete screen.
CARO.


sf<«-
. . 4'
SEI
The
cog
<P.D ;
CORSETS
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
Havelock
GUARANTEED THE HIGHEST QUALITY
TOBACCO
DARKandLIGNTPLUG
ALSO
CUT In2oZ. AND 4-02. TINS
The M.L.A.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a magnetism in the land that drew
him from the town, a desire for ownership, for the
rhythm of regular work—an instinct, perhaps
hereditary, that a wrestle with Nature at first
hand, clearing, delving, ploughing, was what his
best self craved for. And together with this
longing had grown up a hatred of the city, its
chaffering, bargaining, buying and selling. He
was not dismayed at the giant timber on his sixty
acres, for his imagination saw it cleared, fenced,
a house and barn erected, and the live stock in
the yard. Had he been mathematical he might
have counted the labor of it all, the months,
years, lifetime of toil before him ; but his measure
was a rubber rule which made time elastic.
In the first struggle of work there was a fierce
joy as the pent-up energy found outlet. Each
thundering crash of a grubbed tree seemed the
surrendering cry of a conquered enemy. The work
quickened the circulation of his sluggish city
blood ; his chest expanded with the deep inspira-
tions of physical effort; a thrill of content
possessed him, a love of toil for its own sake.
Yet, busy as his hands might be from jackass-cry
to curlew’s wail, years passed and the labor was
not done. And with the years his youth had
gone; the beauty of his wife had faded, and his
interest in the outside world had shrunk. He had
no time to read, to visit, to think. His mind
stopped working, like a clock run down, and dealt
only in reminiscences. A chance stranger with
the ideas of the day found him impatient and
dogmatic. Year by year the horizon had drawn
nearer and nearer, till his whole world was
bounded by the fence of his sixty acres.
In a different way the Bush put its brand on
the wife. Naturally coquettish, with a love of
company and dainty things, she had at first re-
garded the country life as a kind of picnic, and an
.esthetic haze softened the rude outline of slab-hut
and stump-sprinkled paddock. For long she
strove to keep up a neat and even coquettish
appearance, to gain a word, even a look, of ad-
miration from her husband ; but her reward was
meagre. His work tired him to utter weariness ;
he devoured his food ravenously and in silence;
and in the evening when she would have gossiped,
retailed the little incidents of the day as she did
her sewing, her husband dozed torpidly in his
chair, his remaining energy busy with digestion.
So the time came when? with the work of three
women on her hands, she cared less and less how
she looked. It was so easy to put off the mending
and making of her clothes ; easier to go barefoot
than to darn stockings ; easier to bind her hair
in a rough knob than to dress it properly. No
one noticed.
There were two boys, who, from the time they
could run, had no playtime but such as they could
steal from chipping, chopping, or hunting cows.
Their little lives were one long task never done,
a task to be dodged, if possible, a task hated be-
cause of its monotony and everlastingness. On a
day the fattier spoke: “Do you think we can
manage it, Ann ? ”
“ We must manage it, Dad. The boy wants
more schooling ; that’s certain. And, there’s my
•bjitter-money I have been saving for the buggy ;
he might have that.”
“ I thought you were so set on the buggy, Ann ;
you have talked of it for years.”
“So I am, God knows! We have walked all
our lives, or jolted in the cart; and it’s many a
time I’ve thought, as folks dashed, by in their car-
riage, ‘ I’ll ride like that when I’m old, and spread
dust on other people.’ But, never mind ! The
boy must have his chance. Let it go. I’m a
silly old woman. The cart has been good enough,
so far ; let it do to the end.” There was a tremor
in the wife’s voice. “ And there’s Tom’s money
for the apprenticeship. We might borrow that
for a time.”
“Oh, yes! Tom can wait. He will do well
enough at home. What does he want with engi-
neering ? Isn’t the farm good enough ? ”
But Tom would not wait. He was indignant;
his usual stolid acceptance of parental authority
ceased abruptly. “It’s not fair, Dad ; here I’ve
been waiting for three years, and you know I
shall soon be too old. I don’t growl at Fred being
the favorite—l suppose he is clever; but if you
gave him the last sixpence in the world he’d not
as much as sav ‘Thank you.’ And I'm not going
to be a bushie all my life. I’d rather carry a
swag.”
“Then carry a swag, you young good-for-
nothing ! Won’t be a bushie, eh ? Then what am
I and your mother, Mr. Toff ? ”
The father spoke with a sharpness not tempered
by the thought that much of his son’s grievance
was just. His slowly-developed plans had not
included Tom, who was not brilliant, and had
given none of those signs that in the younger
brother, Fred, had aroused in the parents’minds a
long-dormant ambition. They felt intuitively
that for them life had been a mistake for which
there was no remedy ; they had given their all for
sb little. Fred, at least, should make a better
bargain, and his success should be a consolation to
their old age. Unfortunately, by this plan Tom
suffered, and the father’s anger with himself made
him doubly angry with the lad.
“ I didn’t say nothing about you and mother,
cried Tom passionately ; but the old man turned
away impatiently and would hear no more. And
at tea-time, even his mother looked sourly at
Tom, saying not a word Prepared to sacrifice
herself, she could not understand the slackness of
others. Going supperless to his room, the boys
Resolution took shape during his sleepless night,
and before sunrise he was trudging down the track
with a swag on his back, and only the mocking
wy cf the goburra to wish him God speed.
• • • *
Years passed since Tom had shouldered bluey
/nd disappeared in the mighty West. I rom
time to time they knew at the homestead that he
must have earned a cheque, for small remittances
came by post- from places bearing strange and
outlandish names, with a- few weirds added, and
they were always the same. “ Ihe enclosed is to
help mother to buy her buggy.’'
Fred saw some of these letters, and laughed at
the writing or spelling, while he found a plausible
excuse for taking the contents ; but gradually the
letters were less frequent. Then they altogether
ceased, and Tom was heard of no more.
It seemed for a long time that the money spent
on Fred’s education was to yield small tangible
result. He found no steady employment m the
city, bei g full of schemes that came to naught,
and big words which always resulted m extracting
the last shilling from the old people. Still, with
the hope of devotees, they never lost faith, t red
was to be a great man, the man his father might
have been had he had the chance ! They knew of
his doings vaguely, and read with pride the news-
papers he sent them in which his name appeared
as a speaker at public meetings. “ He is getting
on, Ann,” the father would say ; and the day
would be brighter to them as they went about
their work. Only when his wants were urgent
did bred come to see them, and it seemed as
natural for them to give as for him to take. It
was after one of these journeys that Fred met his
father in the garden.
I tell you what it is, Dad ; I must go into
I arliament. An election is coming on, and I’ve
a splendid chance if I had a couple of hundred for
expenses.”
A couple of hundred, Fred ! You know your
mother and I have not ten notes in the world.
Your education, and all the rest of it since, has
been very expensive.”
“ But you might raise a bit on the farm—only a
matter of form, you know, I’m certain to win,
and <£3oo a year will soon pay it off.”
.I ve never borrowed, lad. I’ve starved many
a tune rather than owe for a crust. And a mort-
gaged farm is a farm gone; I have seen it so often.
1 hey are never paid back. The worry of it would
kdl your mother.”
I hat’s all prejudice, father. It’s done every
day. And what was the use of educating me if I
was not to have a chance?” Fred spoke resent-
fully, and puffed vigorously at a big cigar. The
father walked by his side, carrying on his bent
back a small bag of potatoes up to the house.
But, despite his words, there was a glisten of
pride in the father’s eyes as he looked at the man
at. his side, with black coat, white shirt, and
shining boots.
“I’ll speak to mother.”
The mother was spoken to, was over-persuaded ;
and with tears in her eyes she gave a half-consent.
The election was fought and lost, and another
election, following quickly, was fought and won.
The old people were full of joy. “Fred an
M.L.A.! Taking his place with the best of
them!” Even the mother, forgetting her buggy,
drove proudly into the township on market-day
in the old cart. No more was thought of the
mortgage. “Of course, Fred would see to that
now”—and, two years passing, it had almost
dropped out of memory. Then—perhaps it was
the depression in the land market, perhaps arrears
of interest not paid by Fred, or perhaps the
advent of a new manager—for some reason the
bank became suddenly urgent for its money, and
sent a peremptory notice to the old man. He—
doubting, wondering, at one moment assured, at
another despondent—posted the letter to Fred.
At first they were sanguine. “ Was not Fred an
M.L.A. and a power in the land ? ” But a week
elapsed, during which father and mother scarce
slept, before this answer came:
Dear Father. —I wish you could have made some pro-
vision to meet this claim. As things are, Ido not know
which way to turn for money, and, of course, my position
has to be kept up. Perhaps, on the whole, it would be
better to let the old place go—it was never much good—
and make a new start. I might be able to do something.
Your affectionate son, Fred.
The mother turned very white, and gripped the
table hard as she stood and listened. “ Make a
new start!” she gasped. “How dare he say
that ? Our life is here ; our blood and sweat have
made the place what it is. Make a new start! ”
she repeated ; “ when I move again it will be to
my grave.”
“It’s very rough, Ann,” stammered the old
man ; “ but perhaps the boy’s right—he must have
a lot of expense ; and be sure we shall never come
to want now he is an M.L.A.”—and, with tears
in his eyes, the father pronounced the final words
with a kind of triumph.
With the advent of the man who took possession
the mother fell sick. Perhaps if Fred had come
to see them it might have been better with her.
For the rest, not a reproach did she utter. “ I
suppose the poor boy’s busy. A member of
Parliament must have such a lot to do.” Nor
when her state became critical would she have
him sent for. “It might upset him ! ”
• • • *
A year later, by the influence of Roseworth
Richards, M.L.A., an old man of the same surname
was admitted to the Govt. Benevolent Asylum,
and R. Richards, M.L.A., caused an allowance of
eighteenpence a week to be paid to the inmate.
With bowed head and a sickening sense of
wounded pride the old man put on the livery of
charity “He had made a new start.” But when
the first pang was over, the thought of his son
“amongst the best of them” gave him a dogged
courage to hold his head high even on the shaded
bench where he sat the day long with his fellow
unfortunates. At times, one of these obtained a
newspaper, and the old man showed a childish
eagerness to hear the news of Parliament. When
it chanced that his son’s name occurred in some
debate, his eyes brightened ; but he gave no hint
of the relationship. “It would be hard on the
boy,” he muttered to himself, “if it were known
his father was in the poorhouse.”
The parliamentary progress of R. Richards,
M.L.A., was rapid. In less than three years he
was chosen a member of the Works Committee,
and his income rose to £BOO a year. It chanced
that while the pleasure of his second success still
warmed him the son met the father in the pre-
cincts of the House.
“ You here ! Why did you come ? What’s the
matter ? ”
“I got a day out, sonny; and I thought I’d
come and hear you all talking in the big place,”
the old man answered diffidently.
“ Oh, that’s it! I thought—but no matter. I
tell you what it is, Dad ’’—and the son lowered his
voice so as not to be overheard —“I’m not quite
so hard jammed for cash as I was, and I mean to
put your pension up a bit; but not a word, mind.”
“ Mum’s the word, sonny! mum’s the word !
Do you take me for an old fool! And never you
mind the extra money. 1 don’t want it. A
shilling will buy my bit of ’bacca ; and you must
be under no end of expense now. ”
Till the old man worked his way to a front seat
in the gallery he failed to hear distinctly, and
even then he caught only disjointed sentences.
But his face glowed as he heard his son was speak-
ing on old-age pensions.
“We must think of those who have borne the
heat and burden of the day. All have helped in
their degree to build up the wealth and grandeur
of this great country. Who dare say that the
reward of each is fairly apportioned? Is not
wealth too often the badge of selfishness and
greed, or an accident of fortune that no foresight
can control? The honorable member talks of
‘thrift’; lam sick of ‘thrift.’”
The face of the old man glowed as he harkened,
and in his excitement he nudged first one neigh-
bor and then another. “ Ain’t he just grand ! ”
“Listen to that now!” The usher warned him
to keep quiet. He was silent for a time, till the
peroration of the-speaker caused a fresh outburst.
This time the usher led him from his seat, and
unresentingly, the old man walked away. “ What
did it matter? His boy had finished ; and wasn’t
he wonderful; just wonderful! ”
In answer to an urgent telegram, R. Richards,
M.L.A., hastened to the death-bed of a pauper in
the asylum. When the attendant had left them
he bent over the patient.
“ I hope I didn’t trouble you—l asked them to
send. Come closer, sonny ! I want to tell you
something—l never spent the half-crowns, I saved
them for you ; you will find them under my
pillow. I knew well enough you must be under a
power of expense.
“You have not said anything, father?” in-
quired the M.L.A. anxiously.
“Do you think I’m as dotty as that? Never
you fear! No ! Mum’s the word ; mum’s the
word to the last.”
* » * *
“Did you know him?” inquired the attendant
as he drew a sheet reverently over the bed.
“Oh yes, pretty well. He was an old pensioner
of mine—a kind of distant relation. Down on his
luck and that sort of thing these last few years.
I did what I could for him.”
“ Very good of you, sir.”
“ Oh, help a lame dog, you know,” said the
M.L.A. “ One does what one can.”
N.S.W.
HENRY FLETCHER.
Portleigh’s “Indian."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Early one morning, accompanied by Paddy, a
Diamantina blackboy, I crossed the heathy
waste which skirts our part of the coastline, for
an hour’s sport among the rabbits. Where a
grass-grown roadway made a tempting stamping-
ground for “bunny” I took shelter. Paddy
touched my shoulder.
“Look out, Boss!” he said. “Fork come
up ! ”
“ Fork” is the nearest he can get to “ fox,” and
it was to a fox carrying some white object that he
drew my attention. I raised the gun and fired.
The fox dropped its burden, and disappeared in
the undergrowth. The burden proved to be a
goose, recently killed. Paddy lifted it from the
ground.
“Coose belongin’ to Portleigh,” he said.
Portleigh is a new-chum—a Londoner, and my
nearest neighbor. No doubt, as Paddy said, the
bird was his; I had remarked geese near his
place often. I told Paddy to take it there, and
explain how we found it. He tucked the bird
under his arm and departed.
The Portleigh family was at breakfast when he
arrived. To them entered Mary-Jane, maid-of-
all-work, who said :
“There’s an Injun at the back-door, ma’am,
with a message ; but I can’t make nothing of
what he says.”
“Confound him I” said Portleigh.
“Don’t let your breakfast grow cold, Henry,”
said his wife. “Let the man come up and
deliver his message.”
Mary Jane retired and presently returned with
Paddy, whose eyes wandered over the well-spread
table. He drew the bird from beneath his coat.
“ Coose,” he said. “ Fork bin kill-um.”
Mrs. Portleigh looked at the bird, but failed to
recognise it.
“ What does he mean ? ” she asked.
“ Well, I fancy he’s one of those Indian hawkers
we hear so much about, my dear,” replied Port-
leigh. “No doubt they sometimes have to take
poultry in exchange for their goods. Do you want
to sell the goose. Blackie?”
“Baal,” said Paddy; “ fork bin kill-um.”
The lady looked puzzled. “Fork?” she said,
and glanced at the silver upon the table.
“Hindus are particular, I believe, in the way
they kill the creatures they use for food,” said
Portleigh. “You killed him with a fork, eh
Blackie?”
“Fork bin kill-um. Fork! All asame as
dingo.”
“I see. You gave him stingo with a fork.
Well, it’s as good a way to kill a goose as any
other, I suppose.”
Paddy looked perplexed.
“The bird seems fat—and fresh,” remarked
Mrs. Portleigh. “Give the man three shillings
for it, my love, and let him go.”
Portleigh drew some silver from his pocket and
proffered the amount named to Paddy, who looked
wistfully at the coins but made no motion to
accept them.
“ Fork bin kill-um,” he repeated.
“The fact of the bird having been killed by a
fork adds to its value, eh?” said Portleigh, “Well,
then, here’s four shillings for you.”
To finally refuse riches thus thrust upon him
was more than Paddy could do. He took the
money, and with it purchased a red cotton hand-
kerchief and a damaged concertina which, much
to my satisfaction, would emit no sound save an
asthmatic wheezing.
When I met Portleigh a few days later he said :
“By-the-way, Banks, did you hear how my
wife was taken in by an Indian hawker? The
fellow actually sold her one of her own geese—
killed with a pitchfork, he said —and she hadn’t
the slightest suspicion that she’d been ‘had’ until
some time after the man had gone. Pretty rich,
wasn’t it? But, by George, if that’s the way these
hawker fellows carry on, I don’t wonder at there
being an outcry against their admission to the
States. ”
R. V. L.


w,
8
IUE
fo
mo
t
HIIV3H
go
xoa
v
JUST WHAT
YOU NEED
DURING THE
PRESENT
TRYING SEASON
THE present season, with its rapid changes, is
particularly trying to the health. It often
destroys the appetite completely, robs the
system of its strength, and lays it open to
the ravages of various diseases. A short course of
BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS, taken at
this season, will put the system into fit condition to
withstand the heavy calls made upon it, and by so
doing will ensure continued good health.
As an illustration, Mrs. E. J. RAMUS, of 1 Arundle-street, Forest Lodge, Sydney,
says : “ Your Bile Beans have proved a valuable remedy in my household. I was
sometimes troubled with debility, especially during the hot weather, and when I feel
done up with a tired, listless feeling, I take a Bile Bean or two with beneficial results.
As a gentle purgative they are all that can be desired, and leave no evil after-effects
whatever. My son and daughter also take Bile Be n ns, with like beneficial results ; and
from an all-round experience I can safely say that Bile Bean > are unequalled for poor
appetite, sleeplessness, and that out-of-sorts feeling so prevalent during the present
season.”
BILE BEANS have been proved to be an undoubted specific for BILIOUSNESS,
INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, BAD BLOOD, PIMPLES, AND
ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS, BAD BREATH, WEAKNESS, FULLNESS AFTER
EATING NERVOUSNESS, DYSPEPSIA, SICK and NERVOUS HEAD-
ACHES, DIZZINESS, LOSS OF APPETITE, INSOMNIA, ANAEMIA,
SUMMER FAG, and a host of other ailments that owe their origin to defective bile
flow, assimilation, and digestion. Bile Beans are obtainable from all Chemists.
n
Q
He
eans
Price, Is. 3Jd., or 2s.
9d. LARGE BOX (con-
tains three times Is.
l|d. size).
ONE BEAN
ONE DOSE
Rhymes with
t
SV
' 7 -
K.
1
.L,
v///s
1
»
1
2
>
/
&
\ -v
and so does
PEARS
The Holy Twilight.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was the Holy Twilight,
The last of the Last Day ;
The sun had shrunk from heaven,
The moon had fled away.
Archangels wept above her,
The Earth that was so great,
The Regent of the star-worlds.
The Star Inviolate.
Orion, slowly turning,
Set three lights at her head,
Three lights in silence burning,
Three lights above the dead.
It was the Holy Tsvilight,
Between the night and day,
And there was time for sorrow,
And there was time to pray.
There came a wind of darkness,
There came a wind of fire, \
And smote on land and ocean
The Star of our desire.
I stood upon an island
Where Glory had her birth,
The last of all the green land
That once we called the Earth,
Five little children, singing,
Were waiting on the sands,
White roses on their foreheads,
And lilies in their hands.
And “ Who are you, my Sweet One ? ”
And “ Who are you, my Dear ? ”
“We are the kind deeds you have done
Many and many a year.”
Seven kings in raiment royal
Their gold crowns offered me—
“Oh, hide us from God’s anger,
And take us on the sea ! ”
There came along a Poet,
And very poor was he ;
He brought a bird upon his hand,
A dog beside his knee.
The five sweet angels, smiling,
Set all the kings aside—
Said : “ We have room in plenty,
And you shall with us bide.”
And Israfel, the Singer,
Spake, smiling quietly:
“ The birds shall go to Heaven—
They are good company.”
The wild beasts in the forest,
They gazed with wistful eyes ;
They had no Guardian Angel,
No friend in Paradise.
Thcri gleamed from that last forest,
As they paced up and down,
The spotted leopard’s topaz eyes,
The lion’s eyes of brown.
Then spake a bold Archangel,
His voice was brave and high—
“ These also are Thy creatures,
O God—and must they die ? ”
God laughed at His Archangel,
The beasts came at His nod —
For there are many forests
In the wide lands of Gol.
It was the Holy Twilight,
The last of the Last Day,
God send us time for sorrow !
God send us time to pray !
N.s.w.
VICTOR J. DALRY.
“A Bit of a Gonoph.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Wish you’d back the dray into the fire a bit,”
said Charley, “ it’s goin’ ter be darn cold.”
“We’ll have to lift her bodily then, or you
won’t be able to lie down.”
The reason was that the trooper had handcuffed
Charley to the dray-wheel, while he went out to
let his horse get a bit of grass. The horse would
have to stand by a tree, too, through the night,
for he couldn’t be trusted in hobbles.
Charley was our cook, and we had 800 bullocks
going down to Overland Corner. He had only
been with us three days—three days out of Tere-
bong. Jimmy Brown got drunk there, and
nothing would shift him while his cheque held.
Then Charley turned-up, and, after one day’s
experience with him, Jimmy’s absence was not
regretted.
The trouble was a very simple affair, as Charley
put it. “I come in dead broke, trusting to old
Silas to see me through, and he wouldn’t stand me
so much as a pinch o’ sugar. Had given it best,
he said ; he’d been had too often ; and my boots
were broken right across, and the straps had cut
the blankets through. It was as easy to open
Silas’ store as pull aside the tent-flap. His money
was stowed safe enough, but I didn’t want that;
a rig-out an’ some rations an’ a bit of weed —Silas
owed me that much, anyhow. But I nicked two
pair o’ pants and gave one lot to Jemmy Rickson;
they put me away.”
“An’ you’re wearin’ the others?” said the
trooper.
“Yes, an’ there’s the blankets, an’ the hat, an’
the boots ; Silas can swear to ’em all. And now
why not peg it back through the night ? Your
horse is fit, and I’d rather pad the hoof than lie
here like a chained dingo.”
The trooper funked the night trip. “I’ll loose
you now,” said he, “ and you can sit down an’
pitch till next watch. Then I’ll put the bracelet
round yer leg and fasten t’other end to me own
with a dog-chain, and we’ll both sleep comfortable
enough.”
But Charley didn’t sleep well. When I came
off watch' at twelve he was sitting up on his
blanket smoking, the Old Man alongside him.
I heard the Old Man say, “An’ how the devil ye
face it, I can’t understand” ’* Charley answered :
“ A couple o’ years’ll do it. I’ll live through
that. ”
“Two years! an’ for less than ye’d earn in a
fortnight ! It beats me, Charley—beats me
clean. ”
“There’s two things agen you, boss—agen your
understanding, I mean. First, you’ve never been
there, and I have, half-a-dozen times ; second,
you never knew the pleasure of handlin’ other
people’s stuff.”
“Ay!” said the Old Man, “that’s agen me,
true enough ! ”
Then he put the logs together, shoved on the
billy, and, after a spell, brought over a pot of tea,
and got Charley to talk some more. Queer talk
of the life a man who has got the “gonoph’s”
kink in his nature is foredoomed to live. Twenty
years of it, in and out of Berrima, Pentridge,
Darlinghurst ; yet half the time of liberty, spent
in good, capable, honest work. His voice grew a
little bitter towards the end, and be whispered
fiercely : “If he’d started in to-night neither of
us would have seen Teribong, an’ I should have
been heard tell of shortly. ”
I thought the Old Man ought to have spoken
out then, for it was plain he meant something,
and a little puff of hope would have drawn the
devil out of Charley. I wouldn’t have insured
that trooper’s life for next day’s journey.
But the Old Man was always better at doing
things than talking about them. He told us at
two o’clock he was going to look ahead a bit and
mightn’t be back till late. Then he rode away
into the night. The trooper wasn’t in much hurry
to get away. He fastened Charley to the wheel
again at daylight, and gave his horse an hour’s
good grazing. “It’s under 30 miles,” he said,
“ an’ we’ll do it easy by sundown. I’ll carry your
swag.”
“Oh, yes,” answered Charley, “we’ll do it;”
but he didn’t smile much, and he tucked a big
hunk of damper and beef inside his shirt.
They got away at 8, a sorry sight in the big
country—trooper up, spick and span, on his well-
groomed horse ; Charley down below, handcuffed
to the stirrup. Most men would feel bad that way
before they had done half of 30 miles.
Charley meant trouble from the start, but, as he
told months after, he had to foot it 20 miles before
his chance came. Trooper made him fast to a
nine-inch sapling while he boiled the billy about
12, and after that they had to cross a lignum
swamp full of dead logs and crab-holes where a
horse was bound to stumble over or into some-
thing.
He did stumble, and then, as the trooper told
the tale, “ seemed to lurch right over, and I went
out of the saddle as if the devil kicked me, and
me head must have hit the log hard. .. .” That
was all he knew. It was by good luck that he
was permitted to tell it.
For as Charley tramped along the determination
grew in him to do no more “time.” He watched
his chance, and when it at length came in a log-
littered, crab-holey patch, he put his shoulder right
beneath the trooper’s foot and gave a quick heave.
That was the devil’s kick. (Don’t try it unless
you are in earnest).
Half-a-minute later he had unlocked the hand-
cuffs, hitched up the horse, and transferred pro-
prietary rights in the service revolver. He was
going right on for robbery, too, and didn’t know if
he’d stop there. There was nothing at the end but
the rope or a bullet. He meant to get all the
start he could. If the trooper didn’t turn up he
might reckon on two clear days. His wrist was
sore and his feet burned, his legs ached. Black
gall had been in his soul since daybreak. But the
trooper looked pretty ghastly, stunned, white ; a
trickle of blood on his cheek. If he would only
make a move ! But he didn’t.
First movement was in the scrub and close at
hand. The Old Man and Silas the Jew were
riding cautiously, and their horses’ hoofs made no
sound on the soft soil of the dry swamp.
Charley had just shoved the revolver back into
its pouch when they were upon him.
The Jew tumbled down in a hurry : “Ith he
dead ? Ith he dead ? S’help me, but it’s a pity.
And to pinch you, Charley ! Didn’t I give you the
clotheth and the blanketh, an’ thame day they
went through me for five-and-twenty pair, thame
as on Jemmy, the drunkard. But ith he dead ? ”
He was only conveniently dazed and sat up a
few minutes later. Aud then things were ex-
plained. The Jew was rather convincing than
satisfactory. The case was dead, anyhow.
“ Charley,” said the Old Man, when they had
travelled a mile or two together, “ it’s cost me £5O
to square the Jew.”
“ Then I’ll do a whole year’s graft for you for
tucker. Two if you like.”
“ You’re as good a man as ever followed cattle,
Charley! ”
“ I can knock most of ’em.”
“ Then while I’m in the world you’re with me,
lagged for life, d’ye see ! ”
I met the Old Man trucking at Wagga thirteen
years later, and Charlie was out on the common
in charge of his camp.
F.M.
Conjugal Amenities.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Twice that day his wife surprised him reading a
note from another.
“You will know that letter backwards soon,” she
said as he thrust it away the second time.
“It is from Ted,” he said, passing a note to
her.
“The other looked smaller,” she said, jealously.
He laughed at her foolishness.
* * • •
She called him softly in the night.
“Gilbert, Gilbert!” she whispered, and gently
shook his shoulder. He feigned sleep, and
watched —the note from the other crushed in his
hand, since he dared not leave it about.
She rose quietly and lit the lamp, her eyes
spear-points on the calmly-breathing figure in the
bed. Creeping to his clothes she carried a hand-
ful of his letters to the light, and searched them.
Two small notes fell to the ground. She swooped
upon them, glanced at and threw aside the one
from Ted, and with trembling fingers opened the
other.
It was a sonnet addressed “To My Wife” in
her husband’s writing ! Like magic the letters
vanished, and the light went out. She kissed her
husband very tenderly, and slept the sleep of the
happily-deluded.
He raised the note in his hand to his lips, and
slept the sleep of the well-beloved.
M.
Japanese health authorities have been
tackling the problem of keeping the navy men
(20,000 of them) healthy. Smallpox has been
absolutely abolished by repeated vaccinations and
beri-beri almost so by improvements in diet.
There were 2000 cases a year of beri-beri a decade
ago ; now the number has decreased to six a year.


Purifies the Blood
Bushmen Musi Drink Bad Water. This Makes Bad Bland. Sickness
Follows. How to Make the Blood Pure.
2
&
u'At
ym:
■#
Mr. Alexander Johnson, of Bourke,
New South. \v ales, sends us his photo-
graph and says:
u For many years I have been en-
gaged in shepherding,
and other occupations so well known
to bushmen. Often the drinking-
water was very bad, and I was ex-
posed to other hardships of bush life.
I found all the men around me using
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, sol tried it. For
cleansing and purifying my blood, and
for giving me new life and energy, I
found it the most wonderful medi-
cine I ever used. I do not see how
bushmen get along without it. I
advise all who read this to keep a
bottle of this grand medicine on hand
all the time, for it’s a great health
preserver.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Perhaps you are not exposed to all the hardships of bush life. Yet you
have probably suffered from impure blood, great debility, nervousness, exhaus-
tion, indigestion, and other evidences of a weakened system. No matter what
your occupation, nor where you live, if you are in need of a blood-purifying
medicine and something to build up your nerves, you should certainly take
this grand family medicine.
You will make a great mistake if you try any other Sarsaparilla than
“Ayer s. This is the kind that has been making the cures for sixty years.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
Strengthens the Stomach and Builds up the Nerves
Ayer’s Pills—a gentle laxative for the whole family.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEB & CO.. Lowell. Maas.. XT. S. A.
ON
On Our Sel-ectitn, written by A. H. Davis
(“ Steele Rudd *') and published b.y The
Bulletin Co., has earned the title of “the
jolliest boob ever printed in Australia.”
There is laughter on every page ; vet the
book remains grimly true to the facts. As
a picture of life on an Australian selection
it has never been surpassed. Since it was
published, little more than two years ago
upwards of 12,000 copies have been sold at
aa Australian publishing record. The reawlao^toe^saletemotfar to
people who have bought the book know they have got value for their money •
ana they recommend it to others. The price is comparatively high because the hnct j.
produce. It is well printed, and strongly bound in uloth in good Itvlp Thcrp a™ „ expensive to
by sueh well-known illustrators as Mahouy ll£t,“bertJl& J ' re3
cover to cover the book is Australian-the product ,f Au" ’ uUwood ' and Vincent, b rom
tralian workmen, ir it were produced by cheaper labour
»» England, it would cost less, and could be sold at a
cheaper rate. The publishers prefer to employ Australian
labor only. When you buy On Our Se-UeUtn you pay
a little more than you pay for an English book ; but
you get 100 times the Australian value. “ Steele Budd’s ”
book has gone all over Australia, and wherever it has
gone it has become the treasure of, a household, often
the delight of a township. People never leave off
reading it until it is thumbed to rags ; and then they
buy another copy. The characters of “Our Selection”—
“Old Dad, ’ “ Joe,” “ Dave,” “Sarah,” and the rest —
b?retor r „ mail7 ith “■ P ° Stage> direCt ' to T “ E BffU ‘ E ' flN ° ffice > it; will be forwarded “to any‘Xresl
iv\
I
■
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
IT
BY USING
*»•
&
0
&
Res
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
U'W
m
%
Vi
SK
- lb
VrfTTTs
The “LANCET” says:—
“We counsel the public to drink Lime-Fruit Juice
whenever and wherever they list. It is a far more
wholesome drink than any form of Alcohol.”
“Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice either with water or
aerated water is a delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees:
EVANS SONS, LESCHER, & WEBB, Limited,
London and Liverpool.
AGENTS —Elliott Bros., Ltd. ; J. Cowxell & Co., Sydney.
I). Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
E £ pWS
|^ o p.?!'. lous ;l ud Nervous disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Guhlniess, I illness and Swelling- after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
[ ng K a* J,' leat ’ Ij0 ?* of „ A PP etlte Shortness of Breath, CosMveness. Blotches on the Skin Dis-
\V,T r nvr SnVii w Trenibli P < - r Sensations, &c. THE FIRST’ DOSE
W'LD GIVE RKLIEF IN TWENT’Y MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
GUINEA 'inbox'” ° ne 0X 0f these Pills ’ and they wiU be acknowledged to be “ WORTH a
BEECH AM S FILES, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. Thev
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
aimising with the Roseiiudck Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
•vrf, . a _ a< lmitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
i\ous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. 1< ull directions -with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY by
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is and ‘Ah Od each.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR'S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
//)
“Maioimhalf-
a-Miuate by
tee mere ad-
dition of boil-
ing water-"
IN PINT
PACKE I S.
CRYSTALS
Manufacturers—JOHN MOIR * SON, LTD., LONDON, ABE,'BEEN and SEVILLE
Head Office: 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON, E.C.
POPULARITY PROVES MERIT.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME ON ITS MERITS.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL IS THE MOST CENTRAL, THE MOST COMFORTABLE, AND THE MOST
UP-TO-DATE HOUSE IN SYDNEY. N.B.—Visitors only Pay lor what they actually have.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern Syetem of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments : BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Doable, 6s. per day.
SINGLE ROOfl, with Full Board, 6s. per day, £2 2s. per week.
ENGAGE YOUR ROOM AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.—Send to Roberts’ Wine and Spirit Store, Market St., for Price List.
lt is an Eye-Opener.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., E.R.C.S.E.,
L.F.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elixabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest discovery has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases oT Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients treated by
correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One Pound. All Sufferers
should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work, entitled, “Mind Over Matter; or, How to
Secure a New Lease of Life without Drugs, Medicines, or Quack Nostrums.” This work should find a place
in every household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
; herein. This Marvellous Treatment, Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


Asbestos
for Boilers.
Experiments have proved the great economy
effected by covering Steam Pipes and Boilers.
Asbestos Boiler Covering saves, among other
things, 25 per Cent, in fuel.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3cwt. casks,
75., Bs., 9s. cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 125., 145.,
16s. cwt.
PERDRIAU & CO
270 GEORGE STREET
(Between Hunter and Bond Streets).
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brake*.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using cjd. Stamp. Address Dept 346 D
Mead Cycle Co.
Chicago,
V.S.A.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
•W. C. EXjIDRIDG-B & CO ,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET?, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
t onntry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON,
TRADE MARK.
32 & 34 Clarence
Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
jj>>,oxxc3L fox* OfitS'lo Su.©«
Spoors, F° rks >
pocket-Knives & Scissors cutlery
Celebrated
PLATE and
mark.
C©o©©®
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs.. SHEFFIELD
At tho Showroom*—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-Sfc
SYDNEY.
Also At
Wrp-CTT! EIXaOCJB:,*’
Ccllins-st.. MELBOURNE.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
. _ MELBOURNE: 435 Bourke Street.
TTn,T7c for ctud to arrive . « .1
piuifpme MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
mieotors Reducing Valves, Steam Cauges, Steam Traps, Laendry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers’
Machinery Eng neers’ Machine Tools, Shafiing, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil, Brunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY
Consulting Engineers on all matters relating to mining, hydraulic, and general engineering
propositions. Manufacturers and importers of mining machinery, and steam engines and boilers
of all kinds Mines furnished with complete plants—Milling, Concentrating, Cyaniding,
Chlorinating &c Pumping outfits designed and supplied with all plans necessary for erection,
capacUy guaranteed. All classes of pumps kept in stock and ready for immediate delivery;
together with boilers, pipes, and other items of equipment Correspondence invited from
nastoralists and others requiring plant for irrigating purposes. Brickworks designed and brick-
making machinery of the most modern and approved pattern supplied to order. Quotations
Sven for complete installation of any kind of plant whatsoever. Iron and woodworking too s
and all kinds of engineers’ fittings and supplies kept in stock. Agents for Ingersoll rock dulls
and air compressors, Knowles pumps, Gates rockbreakers, etc., etc., etc.
60 Clarence St.,
Sydney
A.OOHESSES s
533 Collins St,
Melbourne
21 & 23 Fremont St,
San Francisco
Bushman
Harry Moranti
His ’Ventures
and Versos.
and Buccaneer
By FRANK RENAR.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
EDWARDS, DUNLSP&Ot.i
SYDNEY.
Suss, 5J* * si* x V.
We are D!rect Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE-?**
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers , , Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO.,
97 Clareaoe-et., ftytlnay.
i
%
The Unirersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructation*, Bilious Affections.
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA]
N. GUTHRIDQE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Manufacturers of RACKAROCK
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Manufacturers and Sole Proprietors of the new
Patent Explosive Compound,
RENDROCK
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS ot ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
JL Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at la,t
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CU3B, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
KArioesa! A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNBY.
Trewhella Bros.’
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
■Wt
If you have Stumps, Boots, Stones, or Logs to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, ana the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Pwci
Double Purchase Jack 4 65/-
19
6
2k
75/
45/-
99
Single „ 99
With AUTOMATIC LOWERINC GEAR, 5/- extra
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victoria,
o* H. HINDS, 17 Loffeus St., Sydaey.
