

McEWAN’S ale.
m
CHAMPAGNE
R. G. WATKINS SZ> CO.,
107 Kent street,
Mining and . Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
m
ftind Per
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application*
Most
Up-to-Date
Machines.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
usefulfor examining small objects),The Pocket Companion
nr Combination Comet, Candle and Match Box, the great
Yankee Bicycle Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all,
the Famous Wizard of the North's Disappearing Coin
Trick (instructions enclosed). This splendid packet posted
to any address in Australasia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
m
Sawing &
Vertical &
Woodworking Machinery,
Horizontal Band Mills,
*'G-raxi.d. I»rlx,” □
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
'aria,
ieoo.
HOLD THE WORLD’S RECORD
GIBSON, BATTLE & C 0.,« mt SYDNEY.
“HERVEY’S RACKARQCK
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Explosive. Cor. CLARENCE* KING STS.,
if
SYDNEY
J
WHISKY.
THORN
Estbd. 1831.
XXOB^HT*.
m
PIONEER
LEATHER
m
m
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
SYDNEY-
R»yal, April, 1903,
CHAMPION CUP
and
SIX FIRST PRIZES.
*
August, 1902, Grand
Championship of
Australasia.
GjX 'fi&f
O'
Q Q
0
EROOM’S
INDIAN
POLO STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S.-Afr'ca,
E'lypt.CliinaCand Ceylon
rt=>
and used by all the best player* in India. Agents wanted
in Australia, N.Z.. and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddlers
and merchant* are invited to write for trade terms.
I
K
EROOM & CO.,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
*
\ Q O
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
m
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYiiYARD SOTARE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot—Commonwealth Buildings,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
.
m
m
THE
*
ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
v*" like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kina of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and. having had them in use for a number of year*, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Th* “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Raior, 7* Sd.
• RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
r-int-lt Razor, in strong leather Case, 108 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, Si*.
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 30*.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange, on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Chequts.
sole Agent* CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
“On Our Selection.” By “ Steele
Price, 6s. The Bulletin Newspaper Go. Ltd., Sydney.
mm
is Distilled under the supervision
of the Federal Excise Department
which is a Guarantee of its Purity.
IL\
/OVIAMDOPEARSOH
the Discoverer.
/OO years oJd
Indigestion
The Robber of Health ;
The Bane of Existence;
The Sapper of Vitality;
The foundation of the ills
that flesh is heir to.
PEARSON’S
PEPTO-CHMI
lias relieved thousands of sufferers. Why not you ?
i’EPTO-OHLOR makes unsteady nerves steady, and
c .res the source of the trouble, viz., Indigestion.
A GREAT NERVE TONIC.
Obtainable at all Pattinson’s shops, and all leading
hemists at 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle. If your chemist
does not stock Pepto-ehlor, send direct to the Alls*
tralasjra,n Head Office, Sydney Stock Exchange Buildings,
113 Pitt-st., Sydney. Add 9d. for postage.
THE
BEST
PEN.
m
BEST
MAKERS.
Overlooking
A Good Thing
is what you are doing if you have
neglected to come in and look over
fil e <gW'AK
Fountain I?eN
Made of the very best material; fitted with
the world's most famous? gold pen, and the
only perfect ink feed known to science, it
will meet your views in every particular.
Get one on trial.
MAEIE. TODD & BARD.
London and Manchester, England.
Jewellers, aad Importers.
Sold fay Stationers,
m
From
The Bulletin
Vol. 24.—N0. 1236. ]
[Thursday, October 22, 1903.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


Boon Crafle Jfflpmisement,
NEW BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S nA »
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Besant, Essays and Historiettes, 6s, postage 6d.
Dufferin, Letters from High Latitudes, 3s, p. 4d.
Oman, Mystics and Ascetics of India, 17s, p. Is 2d.
Jeffery, king’s Yard, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Fowler (E. F.), Place and Power, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Sergeant (A.), Love that Overcame, 3s Cd, p. 6d.
Mitford (Bertram), A Veldt Vendetta, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Phil May, A Medley ; 48 pages of sketches, Is, postage 3d.
Darwin, Origin of Species, 6d & Is, p. 3d.
Margaret Fuller’s Love Letters, 6s, p. 6d.
Upward, Secrets of the Courts of Europe, Is, p. 3d,
Oxenhani, Mr. Joseph Scorer, Is 3d, p. 3d.
Brown, The Mannerings, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Cleeve, Indiscretion of Gladys, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
m
OTICE! NOTICE! j* j*
Two New Bulletin Books
will be ready in November.
OUR NEW SELECTION, by “Steele Rudd."
Price, Six Shillings. <>* £
HEARTS OF GOLD, by Will H. Ogilvie.
Price, Four Shillings and Sixpence. <£* J*
OUR NEW SELECTION will extend and
confirm “Steele Rudd's" wide popularity. The
“New Selection" stories make a larger and
handsomer volume than the old, attractively
bound in cloth, with more numerous and better
illustrations.
HEARTS OF GOLD is a new collection of
Ogilvie's verses, with about a dozen full-page
illustrations. Ogilvie’s popularity has been
steady from the outset, and this volume is
eagerly expected by many readers. £ A
Charming Xmas Present, «£*
ORDERS ADDRESSED NOW to The
Bulletin Office, accompanied by Postal Note
or P. 0.0., will bring the books to any address
immediately on publication. «£*
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE.
, . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
a
A. The Larynx, or organ ot
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
b. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
nnntain no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
Contain NO Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
, in tins, 1/6 ; from the Proprietor, G. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt
of stamps. Sydney Dep6t: 6& 7 Queen’s Place. Made in Australia. Agencies in all Australian States and fI.A
Sold by all Chemists, i
THE RED PAGE.
The Sweet Uses of London.
ONE VIEW
I LANDED in London nine stone odd, finan-
cially weak, but with plenty of confidence
and an abundance of that restless energy
which is found in human weeds and living
skeletons —especially when the weed lands in
foreign parts under circumstances such as call
upon a weed to “ buck up.” I landed in London
on Saturday, had a look round on Sunday, and,
that week, I was settled pretty comfortably, and
writing, in a village in Herts.
I had a box full of old printed matter and copy,
finished and fragmentary, which I’d humped about
the world for years, and which I thought much of
and cherished, principally because it had been so
persistently rejected by The Bulletin and every
other paper I submitted it to. It got mixed up so
often and I wasted so much time sorting it out and
looking up parts of it to use in new stories (under
the impression that I wrote better long ago) and
trying to put it together for a book; and it
worried me so much for fear I’d lose a page of it;
that at last I made a heap of it in the back yard
of my last lodgings in City Road and set fire to it.
That was the only occasion I remember on which
I had words with my friends, the Metropolitan
police : the flame and smoke from my old copy
brought a fire engine, and the firemen got wild
and laid a complaint. (It cost me something in
drinks).
When last I roamed at liberty on this page I
advised Australian writers to go to London or
Timbuctoo, or shoot themselves, and I remember,
by the way, the scribb ers who got most excited
and barked loudest at me in print—and flatly
refused to take the advice 1 did n’t intend for ’em
—seemed to have altogether overlooked the words
“whose talents have been recognised.” But
what’s the use of raking up old things?—it only
leads to sadness and excitement.
My advice still is : Go to London—don’t bother
about Eternity or Tftnbuctoo. Go to London.
If you want to write popular sensational stuff and
make money, and if you have a gift that way, you
will probably make money, and get into society
that will do you no good, and live beyond your
means, and have illustrated interviews with your-
self in a magazine, and in the end you’ll be
dragging out a miserable existence slinging slush
for penny and halfpenny papers for a penny a
line or less ; your name forgotten, and not even
of any consequence to the editors of the rags for
which you write.
J*
I know several Australian writers who went to
London with letters of introduction, put money
on their backs, lived in expensive apartments,
hustled an article or two on popular subjects into
new magazines, and then kept alive by writing
articles, theatrical notices, and society columns—
to be signed by the editor and his wife—until they
got their passage money from friends in Aus-
tralia. But if you want to do good work, and
feel that you can do it, you will need in the first
place to live for, say, twelve months in London—
for London is n’t going to be hustled.
Take a cheap flat and live as cheaply as you
can in North London or somewhere, or a cottage
in a quiet little farming village up the Thames—
avoid a middle-class village, for the narrowness
and paltriness of people, whose whole soul is in
“ keeping up appearances,” would drive you mad.
And few Australians can stand “apartments ” or
a London landlady for any length of time. Don’t
bother about letters of introduction—l took a
parcel home, kindly sent by friends, and never
used one.
jft
There is room and a magazine for good work in
England and Scotland, and the editors want the
work—not letters of introduction. In good work,
simple domestic yarns and true sketches of the
better sides of human nature, of man, woman and
child nature, go best now. They don’t want the
other man’s wife in England—she’s done. Editors
of good magazines and readers for good publish-
ing firms read all MSS. that are not absolutely
hopeless from the start. A publisher’s reader
fears the possibility of his neglecting a story which
another publisher might make a hit with.
Work hard and do good work, and keep to
yourself. I had invitations to suppers at the
Authors’ and other clubs, but I had n’t time. The
big men are of no use to you—they have n’t time
to waste on you; the middle men want their own
advice. The little men only bother and-waste
your time. But I must say this: That the
smallest men of London journalism are many
times larger and more broad-minded and generous
than are the little men of Australian literature.
But writers only worry each other; they are of no
use to each other; each wants his ideas for himself;
and if you run after writers too much, in the end
you’ll be writing to please them, and not the
people.
First of all, get a good agent—and trust him
with your soul, and let him alone. I’m giving
you a lot of advice that I did n’t use myself—and
I want you to bear in mind that I’m giving you
the free benefit of experience that I paid ten per
cent, cash and gave the two hardest years of my
life to get. The agent knows the literary busi-
ness world, and you don’t. He reads your book,
and knows what publishers are most likely to
take it up and give a fair price for it; he reads
your sketch, and knows the magazine it is most
suited for. And he’ll get two hundred where
you’d weaken and take fifty. You’d be blunder-
ing for a year or two all in the dark.
And, another thing, which seems a little thing:
when you send out your first story, and it is
returned with thanks, you may be discouraged
and throw the screed aside or into the fire in dis-
gust. The agent is n’t discouraged : if he’s a
good agent, and your story is very bad, he does n’t
send it out at all. It spoils his business to send
out bad work. He returns it to you with advice.
But when he sends it out, and it is returned, his
clerk slips it into another envelope and sends it to
another editor right away, and so on until it is
placed. You may have to wait, but you only hear
the good news. You get no short and nasty
letters from publisher and editors which would
fire you to write cheeky ones back and spoil your
chances there for ever. No ; your agent gets the
nasty letter from a worried, overworked editor,
and he writes a polite and dignified reply and
sends another MS. tor the editor’s consideration.
J*
Don’t listen to the talk about editors and pub-
lishers preferring to deal straight with the authors,
and wishing to see them and know them.
Straight editors and publishers, when they mean
business, would sooner deal with a business man.
The reasons are obvious to editors and others who
know the writing animal. Should your agent
consider it advisable for you to lunch with an
editor, or a critic who seems really interested in
you, he. will stage the business for you. Another
little hint: if you have to leave London for a
distance—or if you stay in Australia and put your
work into the hands of an agent, tell him to open
all your London letters, private anA**! l erwise,
before he forwards them to you, are
editors and others who will persist in voting to
the author on business and ignoring the agent;
and in your case three or four months would be
lost in mailing. Get a good agent, trust him, let
him alone, and write with a mind free from
business worries.
H.L.
ANOTHER VIEW
TO shun editors ; to abjure society ; to trans-
act business through an agent; to live
secluded in North London But, if
this be the road to success, why go to
London ?
“ Editors want your work; not you,” Then the
post will carry your work. “Leave it all to the
agent.” A month later or sooner makes no
difference to the class of matter we have in mind.
Then why go to London ?
If you go to write Bush stories or sketches, there
is no reason for going. Going to spy out the
country ; going for journalism ; going for experi-
ence ; going for pleasure ; going with assured
means to a definite end : these goings are reason-
able. But, unknown, with a boxful of MS., to
go to London in the hope of “ succeeding in litera-
ture” —well, for the average person who reads
these lines, it is folly.
J*
Patchett Martin, who knew all about so-called
“success in literature”—from the mediocrities’
point of view—gave sound advice when he coun-
selled unknown Australians to sit tight and write.
Lawson gives unsound advice. There is in
London, for what is called “ Australian litera-
ture,” no market that cannot be reached just as
well from Australia. Without saying so, Lawson
himself says so.
And Lawson himself was an exceptional case.
He had made a name in Australia: he had pub-
lished a couple of successful books; and the
famous “shoot yourself” article, which was an
interesting statement of a peculiar attitude, had
been widely quoted, and widely misunderstood.
Despite his suspicion of strangers, despite
everything, the average Englishman remains
“a simple-minded bloke.” His emotions were
touched by Lawson’s picture of tragedy, just
as they are touched by yarns about Turkish
outrages upon the meek Christians (!) of Bul-
garia. He stood ready to pity and patronise:
pity and patronage being moral agents of self-
esteem. Besides, Imperialism was in the air;
and there was a general feeling that these wild
Australian geniuses really ought to be encouraged,
don’t-you-know.
And Lawson was the genuine article: there
was no mistake about that. There was enthusiasm
for him ten years ago : there is appreciation still.
When his first little book was published by his
mother, it was written for The Bulletin (5/l/’95)
that “Henry Lawson is the voice of the Bush,
and the Bush is the heart of Australia ” —and so
on with words of warm commendation and
encouragement. His work does njt amount to
much on the grand scale ; yet it is a big thing for
Australia, and a few Englishmen could under-
stand that.
J*
But when Lawson talks of “succeeding” in
London, one asks what that kind of success
amounts to. He was away from Australia a
couple of years, and he sold to English publishers
two or three books of old matter and new, and a
number of magazine articles. And he has sold
or will sell more. Probably his receipts were
about a book: possibly he drew or
jS7OO in all. That’s over and done with.
If he had “ sat tight ” in Australia and stuck to
work, and kept up the quality of his work, he
could have made as much more here—and the
agent would have done his business, on his own
showing. “ Steele Rudd ”is another typical and
popular Australian author —Lawson’s inferior in
some points, his superior in others. He sits tight
in Australia. This year his income from On Our
Selection, published four years ago, has been close
on £i a week. The book is selling better than
ever, and the income keeps on. The wholesale
agents’ order for Our New Selection, to be pub-
lished next month at 65., is 4000 copies—the best
advance order such a book has ever had iu this
country.
“Steele Rudd ’’deserves bis success. So does
Lawson. But “Steele Rudd’s” Australian suc-
cess is worth a lot more than Lawson’s “London
success.” There’s no sense in pointing Aus-
tralian authors to London while Australia is so
liberal in encouragement. If Lawson had sat
tight, and managed his business properly, he
ought to be drawing a steady £6 a week from the
sale of his books in Australia. With the “London
success ” thrown in—by the agent whom Lawson
declares should be left alone to achieve it.
J*
Apart from cash, there is no profit in “going to
London.” There appears to be in some Australian
minds an idea that London is a desirable
place to go to with the idea of “ succeeding.”
Daley writes vaguely of the fascination “ when
London calls.” Nothing in it. London is, from
one point of view, a nice, friendly, familiar city—
with that curious air of homeliness that Sydney
has, among Australian cities. From another point
of view, it is a filthy hole. The men are beasts of
burden and the women beasts of pleasure—hard
driven. The air is unspeakably foul. The climate
is vile, with variations. In good weather, it’s a
good place to visit. To live there is ghastly.
This is no wail of the disgruntled, because Aus-
tralian journalists do well in London, in their
modest journalists’ way. We ’ll talk of that an-
other time.
MEMORANDA
Pennell’s eulogium of Whistler m Sept. North
Amer. Review extends to books as well a9 pictures ; and
is so unmeasured in the one respect, where we can
measure it, that one doubts its validity in the other.
Whistler's hooks are clever, fevered, and (with the
expressive adjective) thin : they are in no sense great
literature. Suppose posterity were to apply a similar
judgment to the paintings'! 1
Pennell has no alarms. “ No one since Velasquez and
Rembrandt has had such an effect on the art of the
world. And not alone by the graphic arts will he live,
but by what he wrote and what he said. There is no one
who has carried on the traditions of English literature of
the days of Elizabeth and James, as this man has done, in
one book. (!) Nor is that all. As a patriot, as an
American, it would be hard to find his peer.” (! !)
“ He painted the White Girl and the Piano Picture, he
etched the French Series and the Thames Set. And they
are immortal.” “But then one is always surprised at
common sense in anything connected with British act-
criticism.” “It is a popular superstition that Whistler
was accepted in France. Until 1883, he was treated
rather worse, officially, in France than in,England, and it
is only this year" that, sending to, Budapest, he
found himself carefully ignored. Success for him
meant a fight in every country for recognition.”
“ Rembrandt has not changed, and Velasquez has not
changed, and Whistler will not change. For genius was
the portion of these three artists, and immortality is their
reward ...” “ He was in no sense an English artist;
English artists never did one single thing for him during
his life nor since his death ...” “He had no interest in
British art, save that which is above nationality, like
Hogarth’s. And near Hogarth he now sleeps.”
Old Times, a Sydney publication of some inte-
rest which collected anecdotes and memorabilia of “ old
colonial days,” has suspended publication with the fifth
number. •
To the disgust of local booksellers, an Edin-
burgh firm last week loaded a Sydney auction-room with
some 2000 books, which realised about £200. Prices
ranged a little under wholesale values, on the average.
The books, however, were not a very valuable lot—con-
sisting partly of remainders, impressions from worn
stereos, and general shop debris, sweetened with a few
good items. Competition was hot keen, and in compari-
son with local prices, purchasers secured bargains.
Reviewing On Our Selection, by “Steele Rudd,”
The Athenaeum of 5th September says“ Among the
small, the regrettably small, population of the Australian
Commonwealth, we understand that some eleven thou-
sand copies of this book have been sold. We think it
should find a few thousand new readers upon this side of
the world. It is certainly worth perusing, if only because
it is entertaining. But it has other merits. Its five-and-
twenty chapters depict with absolute truthfulness,
as well as humour, one kind of life lived in Aus-
tralia. It is nob the kind of life of which tourists are
shown anything. Newspaper correspondents send
us no cable messages about selectors, cockatoo
farmers, or life in the back-blocks. The selector has very
little concern with marvellous Melbourne, Sydney Har-
bour, the Federal Parliament, or Government House
entertainments. Well-fed city residents in Australia do
a great deal of talking about capital and labour, demo-
cracy and freedom. The selector has no breath to spare
for this sort of thing ; he is too busy fighting the droughts,
the bush, the forces of Nature in fact. He fights all day,
and half the night very often, over his share of making
the great country he iives in habitable for himself and
for future generations. He is further away than his
countrymen in the cities, less noisy, and more
modest. And so it happens that the world
at large knows very little of the Australian
selector, who is, perhaps, a good deal better
worth knowing than any one else in his country.
Novelists who lay the scenes of their masterpieces in the
Antipodes have a way of clinging to the largest and most
comfortable sort of stations, where every one dresses for
dinner and the company is select. Others, again, of the
realistic kind, tell us of sundowners and “spielers,” as
who should say that Australia is populated by wealthy
squatters and "thieving tramps. This book gives us the
selector upon his selection in the bush, with his brave,
rude, hearty wife; his ragged, mischievous, hard-working
children ; his hopes, and fears, and difficulties, and weli-
earned little triumphs. It is a volume of papers sketched
with absolute truth (the reviewer can answer to this from
his own experience) and with real humour.”
Catalogues for the Melbourne sale of Phil May’s
drawings may be obtained at The Bulletin office, or from
the auctioneers, Gemmell, Tuckett, & Co., 359 Collins-
street, Melbourne—price, 6 d. each. Edition of 25 num-
bered copies, bound in white buckram, lettered in gold-
28. 6 d. each.
Justice Joyce, in Eng. Chancery Court (re-
ported August 2) reiterated the dictum that “ there is no
copyright in news, though there may be in expression
and in the language in which it is conveyed.” English
law in this matter would probably be held to govern
current Australian : both being vague beyond belief.
One hopes that Commonwealth Parliament will attack
copyright soon and sensibly.
B. L. Taylor tells an Araer. maga. that Andrew
Carnegie, pining for occupation a^ Stt ? bo ’.l ia l cotg Some
trahs ating Shakespear into gude braid Scots.
specimens of his work upon Hamlet
Act I.— Scene 5.
Mar. Laird Ifahnilet.
Hor. Heeven be wf him.
Ham. Aweel.
Mar. Hoots, toots, ma laird. , „ nom
Ilam. Iloits, toots, callant! Coom, burdie, coom.
Hor. Whit news, ma laird ?
Ham. Och ! uncos.
Hor. Gude, ma laird. Tell’t.
Ham. Nae, ye’ll let bug'if ah tell’t.
Hor. Ahll nae let bug, ma laird.
Mar. Ah’m doom, my laiTd.
Ham. Cross yer hert ?
Mar. Av, cross ma hert, ma laird. . .
Ham. Aweel, aweel. Whisht! There’s nae veelam in
a’ Denmark but he’s a leean knave. Dye ken that. ,
Hor. Ay (to Marcellas). He’s daft, ah in thinkin .
Act lll.— Scene 2.
Ham. D’ye ken yon clud—the yin that’s unco like a
cahmel ? .
Pol. Ay. ’Tis suspeechiously like a cahmel.
Ham. Ah’m thinkin’it’s a weasel.
Pol. It ha’ ivhuskers like a weasel.
Ham. Ah’m thinkin’ aiblins it’s a whale.
Pol. Ay, it ha’the neb o’a whale.
Ham. Aweel, aweel. Ah'll coom to ma mither the
morn.
The octave of a dedicatory sonnet “To Maurice
Maeterlinck,” by Frederick Langbridge—
Ah, you who dwell in a dim, haunted place
Where flesh is halfway spirit, where young eyes
Are large and heavy with innocent tragedies,
Where a strange, wistful twilight veils a space
Of ominous water, breaking round the base
Of an undated tower, in human-wise
Sad, and old woods in questions and replies
Rumour the sorrow of a fated race .. .
Wanted a clean copy of The Hidden Tide, by
R. Quinn. Two-and-sixpence will be paid at this office.
CORRESPONDENTS
Rebel: Minor interest, and three weeks late
J.M.: Too vague. Want references, full and precise....
R.R. demands of the Infinite, “ Who isthe author of
‘Brother Ben,’ a droving yarn in verse?”.... Audie-
mur” asks for author of “ What from thy fathers thou
dost inherit, earn it, then it becomes thine own.”
Astonishing with what an impressive air these illogical
maxims stalk about. What you inherit from your fathers
is Yourself— i.e., you very ownest own, however (in
another view) it belongs to others your forbears. If the
reference be to cash and similar extrinsics, there are apt
retorts to every explanation of the mystery W.K.A. :
Kindly kill “the Hobart poet named Mason.” A.E.M. :
“ S.M. Herald attributes to Longfellow the boy that
stood on the burning deck”? Very 1ike1y....“ Burglar
Bill ’’agrees with Daley regarding the simplicity of the
ideal writing-room. “ I found half the prisoners in
gaol were poets : the other half would have become poets
had they stayed long enough. The cells were devoid of
ornamentation. I remember one simple horse-stealer’s
verse—
With eyes blood-flecked with the glare of Hell,
Face hardened with wind and hail,
Is the bull-faced hound who runs us round
The ring at gaol!
RECEIVED
Chambers’s Ethnological Dictionary of the English
Language (Is. net). [A new edition up to date, and
indebted to the same publishers’ Twentieth Century
Dictionary, of which indeed it is practically an abridg-
ment. Gan be recommended for school use.]
Quid Bits frae Robert Burns; illus. by W. F.
Brown (Glasgow, Bryce ; Is. net.) [A choice of texts
from the Scottish bible.)
Henslowe’s Annual, No. V (Melb., .Henslowe ; Is.)
[This magazine of impudents and incompetents has
varied in five numbers from the tolerably bad to the
intolerably bad. The current number is tolerably bad:
it would have been tolerably good if the editor had per-
mitted it. He has the aft of getting contributions, but
not the art of getting good contributions. Yet there
are bright spots worth the low price.]
The Book of the Peach, by H. W. Ward (Walter
Scott; 2s. 6 d.) [Deals with Eng. conditions, and
peaches under glass.]
Frank Baylis, by John Crane (Walter Scott;
5 5.) [An inexpert writer’s novel. The plot is indis-
tinct : the subject is the experience of an English
youth in training for the Roman priesthood—treated
irreverently.]
Barlasch of the Guard, by H. S. Merriman
(Macmillan ; 2s. 6 d.) [Merriman has written better
novels ; but even these were somewhat stiff, lacking
dash 'and fascination. Barlasch is all stiffness —a
skeleton of deliberate “adventures,” inanimate and
uninteresting.]
A.G.S.
TO J. le G. B.
My eloquent fnend So you’ve come at the end to weep
in rhyme, and pray
For this Self, con temned, whose comrade Self lies mur-
dered by the way.
Fresh from the flowers and sun-lit hours, the evening and
morning stars,
You tip-toe along the dark prison of tcrong, and prattle
reproof through the bars:
To the whites of your eyes
You are shocked at the cries
Of your old chum, who dies
In the Valley of the Shadow of Death.
Where goblins peer and daemons jeer y o u uttered a cry or
two!
(You remember your rhymes of the terrible times when
you were battling through ?)
But suppose your feet like mine had failed, your heart at
last gone do wn f
Suppose you had carried my heavy cross, and lost my
splendid croum,
Would you count it a crime
Had you rapped out a rhyme,
As you sank in the slime
Of the Valley of the Shadow of Death ?
With the latest breath of this life in death, 1 swear, by
the Self I have slain,
Were I now on the track where I never turned back 1 would
tread the old foot-prints again—
1 would follow my weird till my soul was seared beneath
the fiery rod
Of the pitiless Fate whose name I hate—the God who is
not my God.,.
So—a quivering lip,
And a good-bye grip,
As I stwnble and trip
Down the Valley of the Shadow of Death.
D. O'R.
(with love to the Prisoner.)


WIOI
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AIMD PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & CO., uo.
Are by far the most successful Salesmen
OF
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Babbit and Opossum
mm
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Wool Stores-PYRMONT.
Head Office and Produce Store—ll Phillip St.
SYDNEY.
Sol® Wool-Selling Commission
to the Growers—
If Per Cent.
Trust Account.
Regular Sales of Wool & Produce.
Prompt Returns.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT, 231
Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
and Produce Mawhanta-
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Cera Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
THE LEADING HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBAGOO.
Leola.
KTTIdSCK
\ _
Santiago.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GOODS EXCHANGED or MONEY RETURNED.
v/*”
r
O'
Ml MANILA
No. 1 Manila.
rtUfio
BOTHSCWIPS
El Mundo.
0 UARANTEE. —EVERY CIGAR SOUND
AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. eth. States
Post Free Post Fret
N.S.W. oth. States
ROMA QUEENS ..
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke ..
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS .. ..
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“ Borneo, Mild Smoking
EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor uu
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. de Mendoza) 100
In box.
d.>
100
100
100
100
13 8
15 0
Per 100.
m
“ REVOLUTION ”
IN THE TOBACCO TRADE
“ RED SEAL” TOBACCO
AT MILLION PRICES
TO SUIT THE TIMES.
“Red Seal”
Dark Pluar
Strong: & Modlum
}3 /•
per lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Out
2oz. Paoketa
4/3
par lb.
Poat Fraa
“Red Seal”
Bright Plug
Mild Smoking
>3/6
par lb.
Post Freo
lip Ar | C Aa I Bright Cut v \
BUU OUcll 4oz. Patent Tint/ 1
4/3
per lb.
Poet Free
“RED SEAL” is a REAL GOOD Smoking Tobacco, guaranteed BEST VALUE la the States.
W* RECOnnEND Smoker* to give “RED SEAL” Tobacco a TRIAL.
Mick Simmons, XZaymarket, Sydney*
I. Hollis
& Son’s
JV
a
“THE RELIABLE.”
Price J 36 12a. 6d.
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top lever, bar action, real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross-bolt, left choke, rebounding locks snap fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powder.
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney
ELEC
CBELT
s
5Z
IT is the Strong Man who succeeds nowadays. Not the man of brute
strength, but the man strong in nerve, strong in intellect, strong in his
convictions which he believes to be honest. Who is it that fills the big
places in commercial life ? Why, the strong man.
Who is it that is pointed out as a leader of men?
The strong man again. Who is it who does not
know what failure means? It is the strong man, of
oou’se,
GET SOME LIFE IN YOU. =
Don’t be weak, don’t go on from day to day listless and careless of life. If you are weak, we will
make you strong. If you have Backache, Nervous Ailments, Stomach, Kidney, or Bladder
Troubles, Rheumatism, or Lumbago, we will cure you. We know the secret of the life germ. It is
Electricity, and, if you will follow our advice for three months, we will cure you, permanently.
OUR FAMOUS ELECTRIC BELT
Effects cures that read like miracles. It absolutely gives new life to the human body. We know that because we have seen it done
every day, and we hear men say they know it also. It is the grandest invention of the age for weak men ; the surest and easiest cure
for all nervous and chronic diseases. Its wonderful power is directed to the seat of the nervous system, through which its vitalising
strength penetrates into all parts of the body, carrying new life to every function which has been weakened by dissipation, restoring
energy to the brain and power to the vital organs. No weak man, no sickly or delicate woman, will ever regret a fair trial of the Dr.
McDane-hlin Electric Belt, which is Nature’s restorer of vitality.
PIT DO NOT BUY AN ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE
ABSOLUTELY DECIDED TO USE NO MORE DRUGS.
Mr. JOHN DOOLEY, of Shepardstown, N.S.W., who suffered for 15 years, says: “ Dear Sirs,—l am
very pleased with your Belt; it has taken all the pain out of my body. I was a sufferer for about
15 years. Since I have been using your Belt the pains have all gone away, my health has improved
in every way. I find much pleasure in recommending the Belt to anyone suffering from ill-health.”
Mr. CHERN LEE, of Narromine, N.S.W., a well-known and respected storekeeper,
writes: “I am pleased to say that I have derived great benefit. Since using your Beit
the indigestion I have been suffering from has entirely disappeared, and I am perfectly
satisfied that your Belts are genuine and a wonderful invention.”
Mr. HENRY WARREN, 2 Little Gore Street, Fitzroy, Vic., after doctors had failed, speaks: “I am glad
to say my health is grand. I have had the Belt three months, and it has done me a lot of good—more than
the doctors did for me in 10 months. I can eat like a horse, before I wore your Belt I could hardly eat at
all. I have gained a stone in weight, and my leg is alright.”
SPECIAL OFFER.
Every day we have complaints from
disappointed people who have bought
for a few shillings what they were LED TO BELIEVE was an Electric
Belt “as good as McLaughlin’s,” only to find it a rank imitation and
utterly worthless. If you have been taken down in this way write us full
particulars, and we will GUARANTEE TO GET YOU YOUR MONEY BACK
or its equivalent in value. This applies to any article bought during the
last two years. Be sure you state your case plainly to us.
DON’T FAIL to write to us for particulars
as to how “FREE BELTS” are sold,
and for our handsome book as described
above. It shows how we cure, and we
want you to know. Don’t be misled by
cheap imitations of our Belt.
Free Book
♦
THIRD hundred thousand lot of
our Beautiful, Illustrated Treatise on
“Electricity and its Use,” is just to
hand from the printer, and we want you
to have one. They explain how to cure all the
complaints peculiar to weak men. They
should be in the hands of every man and
woman in Australia. They show in great
detail just how we treat the ailments of men
which do the most to make life miserable.
This book contains a lot of information for
men which explains many points they want
to know. It is written in plain language, and
the illustrations are of the highest type of art,
showing the best developed specimens of
manly strength. No man who feels any doubt
as to his physical powers should be without
this book. Sent, closely sealed, without
marks, free, upon application.
= DIAGNOSIS FREE.=
NO CHARGE is made for a Diagnosis
or Advice. Do not send a Pound when you
send for one of our Books. Simply send your
name and address. It might be well if you
state in your letter the principal source of
your complaint.
All our diagnosis are written in compre-
hensive language, free from technical terms,
and point out the cause and result of each
symptom of your ailment. No charge of any
kind is made for it. Hours—9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
= POST SYSTEM. ==
Ours is the largest Medical correspondence
in the world, and our system is perfect; your
letters are assured immediate attention, and
the strictest professional secrecy is maintained.
Write to us to day or call for FREE
ADVICE or FREE TEST.
The dr. McLaughlin co.
IOOw. Market st„ Sydney
MELBOURNE OFFICE-1674 SWANSTON STREET.
WELLINGTON OFFICE—S 4 WILLIS STREET.


PERDRIAU & CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 1881.
First Manufacturers of Rubber Goods in Australia.
Rubber Sheet, Rubber Valves, Rubber Buffers.
Armoured and Plain.
For Gardens. For Steam.
Any Sizes
or Thickness.
KOSE.
TUBINC.
For High-pressure delivery.
For Suction.
Of best Quality Rubber.
Will stand any Climate.
A Full Assortment of
all Best Makes.
Best Quality.
Any Size.
ENGINE PACKING.
RUBBER BELTING.
TITAN JOINTING.
To hold
400 lbs. steam.
Won’t Slip.
Up to 36 in, wida
For High
Pressure Steam.
Will make a tight and lasting joint on any surface and under any steam pressure.
. Will stand any degree
of steam heat.
DUGONG JOINTING.
The best Jointing' ever
made for Ammonia.
Rubber and Oil Waterproof Clothing,
Rubber Coats, Boots, Goloshes, Leggings, Oilskin Coats, Jackets, Pants; in hot,
everything to keep out the wet.
Enemas.
SURGICAL
Air and Water Cuihion* and Beds.
Fountain Syringes.
Hot Water Bags.
Operating Cushions.
Ice Caps. Atomizers.
RUBBER
Rubber Gloves.
GOODS
Elastic Web Goods.
Bandages, Stockings
Urinals.
Sc CO. 270 George St., Sydney.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free on Application.
DRINK i— —W
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
SECOND
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His 'Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
V By FRANK RBNAR. \f
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
RUPTURE
CAN BE CURED
Without
Operation
Pain, Danger, Inconvenience, or Loss of Time. A genuine success. IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
The acme of comfort and a feeling of perfect confidence is secured from the first hour of using
Dr. Langston’s combined treatment. Write to-day for Treatise No. 12—posted 2 stamps—and
read the CONVINCING TESTIMONY received from all parts of Australia, from hundreds
of men who HAVE BEEN CURED. Used and endorsed by Clergymen, Statesmen, Lawyers,
Physicians, Farmers, Artisans, Navvies, Miners; in fact, men and women in every station of
life. These living witnesses support facts that leave no room for doubt.
VARICOCELE
CURED—No Cutting or Pain.
The stagnant blood is driven from the dilated veins, and all soreness and swelling subsides.
Men suffering from Weakened Nerve Force, Constant Depression, Gloomy Forebodings, Fast
Becoming Unfitted for Active Business Life, fail to attribute their deplorable state to the
PROPER CAUSE. They know they have VARICOCELE, as they have suffered some dis-
comfort on account of it, particularly while standing. But the evil effects due to
VARICOCELE are so gradual that they neglect it until the entire system is undermined, and
they are forced to realise that something must be done to prevent them from breaking down
completely. To such sufferers I say, Don’t fall into the hands of Quacks —don’t submit
to the knife —don’t pay enormous sums to so-called specialists for medicines, electric belts, etc.
My perfect, simple device will CURE YOU EASILY, Permanently, and Quickly, without
inconvenience or loss of time. Send for Treatise No. 15 —posted 2 stamps.
Surgeon LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.
129 Collins St., Melbourne; and at 177 Liverpool St., Sydney.
m
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World RenowneJ
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
k
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
dinnefordU
MAGNESIA.
m
FREE TRIAL FOR 90 DAYS
m
Not a penny down. Simply drop us a post-card with your
name, and we will forward you at once one of our latest Im-
proved High Grade Electric Belts free. You can use it three
months then pay us if cured, and the price will be only half
what others ask for their inferior belts. If not cured, you re-
turn the belt to us at our expense and your word will decide.
We are willing to trust you entirely, knowing that we have the
best and most perfect belt ever invented, and nine men in ten
always pay when cured.
WE WILL TRUST YOU.
This modern Belt is the most perfect and complete ever
invented. It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varicocele,
Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and
Stomach complaints, Nervousness, and all weaknesses of
men and women.
WE WILL GIVE FREE
to each person writing us one copy of our beautifully illustrated Medical Book which
should be read by all men and women. Drop us a post-card and we will send it to you
Dree in plain wrapper. If you are weak in any way delay no longer, but write to-day for
our splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. (Dept. M.)
49 ELIZABETH STREET, fIELBOURNE, VIC*
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WBAK BYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BHBRACma
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1908 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with oyer 50 engravings,
3s 6d posted. Magic Up-To-Date; Easy Conjuring
Tricks por Beginners, illustrated. Is posted. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged: edition, 40
engravings, Is. How to Dance, Is ; post, Is 3d. How
to Wrestle, Is ; post, Is 2d. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Fop, Is 3d posted. Tailoring for
Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s
each posted. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, 6d each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, is; post, is 3d.
Georgette, Is; post, is 3d. The CubKOLD, is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, is. Maria Monk, 1 Is 9d. Howto
Make Love, Is 6d. Fowler’s Science 1 op Life, 10s 6d.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d!
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d. 5 Nat Gould’s
Sporting Novels, 2s edition for Is 9d,post paid, any
of them. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the -Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post!
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is."
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Horse and Cattle Doctor!
Is. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Letter
Writer Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Cabinet Making for Amateurs,
illustrated, 3s 6d post. Resurrection, Bd. posted.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pT" Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE OOT FROM THIS ADVT.
»
Write for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE,
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook,' 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is. 3d. post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d.,
and Is. Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Ro-
mances, 2s. Ingersoll’s Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 6d. posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), 1?. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
W annan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
ELECTRIC BELTS
».... ■
Protected by Royal Letters Patent*
YOU never saw a Genuine Electric Belt in this
country if you have not seen ours ; you have never
worn a Genuine Electric Belt if you have not
worn ours. We are protected against all those who
would like to encroach on our Patent Rights. Our Belt
has no cumbersome, obsolete chain to be saturated in
VINEGAR or SULPHURIC ACID TO TORTURE YOUR SKIN, and
you do not lose the current after a pew days’ wear.
We have the very latest achievements of Medical
Electric Science, an Electric Body Battery, for the
cure of all nervous and other diseases, in all stages,
however caused, which will restore the wearer to
robust health and vigor, and it weighs only seven
ounces. Call and examine our Electric Belts before
throwing your money away on useless Toy Belts. Test
them on the galvanometer, and also feel their life-
giving galvanic current. Our “Electric Era” and
price list is sent post free anywhere.
Address: Electric Appliance Company
DEPT. 7,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
(9HSp : '■'^Kvw
fsi ; : : .
■
CHOICE
TIPS
From the Famous
Farms of South
Africa.
Black, White, or Cream
5/'
The Bunch
Post Free.
Worth
15/-
These feathers cannot be bought
for twice the money in any
other house.
WRITE NOW ! Send Postal Notes.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATNERSNOP,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention Tub Bulletin.
THE BULLETIN STORT BOOK:
Price, 4s. 6d.


“A friend
in need is a
friend in-
deed.” This
is an old
proverb,
but as true
as it is old.
Here is just
such a friend.
Never be
without it. Keep it
close at hand all the
time.
umin
Ayers
Cherry Pectoral
It will prove a good friend when you
have a fresh cold, bringing immediate
relief. You will find it equally true
in old colds, bronchitis, whooping-
cough, asthma.
And you will declare it “the best
friend in the world” if you will use
it for an irritable throat or weak lungs.
It acts as a strong tonic, clearing up
the throat, giving tone to the relaxed
tissues, and greatly strengthening the
lungs.
There are many substitutes and imi
tations. Beware of them! Be sure you
get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr- J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mas«., U.S.A.
Cockroaches!
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists,
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand”
Eucalyptus Oil
For Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds, Coughs, Colds and
Sore Throats.
CAUTION.—Ask for Bosisto’s
PARROT BRAND,
and Beware of Imitations.
"Til Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
BOLE AQBNTS.
The Result .
CRAIG & AITKEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Too Stout
I was (or years; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
IF YOU WANT IT
1 CET IT WITH A
KODAK
m
m
0
MFNTION this paper
V *
freren
GEaa
WILL CURE .THAT
Hack in'2 Cough.
W J Vw'
. Troublesome Gold,
ff§
11\2
oriuenza
Asthma, Bronchi Ids. Consumphor
LARGE.& SMALL BOTTItS 1r6&2'6l r 6&2'6
HWrfcUtfV,
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10a.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sfc.,
SYDNEY.
iST Send for a
Catalogue.
m
Rent Shaft Sulkies.
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE fc«
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest,
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £Bl Os.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
w
SNVtSIMi
B4.IHS 'd kf
21/"
21
YOU WAHTag-*
A Good Timekeeper
at a Reasonable Price.
HERE IT ISIS
A Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch
Warranted 2 Years.
Posted Free to any part of
Australasia—
-21/-
Send/or my New Catalogue—FßEE
H. F. SMITH
Queensland Leading: Jeweller, QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
w r
ft
. .22 Caliber Cartridges
If you want to use .22 Caliber Rim Fire Cartridges that shoot
strongly and accurately, buy the time-tried Winchester make,
having the trade-mark “H " on the head. They cost but a
few pence more a box than the cheap, unreliable kind, and
they are shillings better. Winchester .22 Caliber Cartridges
are furnished loaded with either black or smokeless powder, the
latter being loaded with the celebrated Winchester Grease-
less Bullets, which make them very dean to handle.
FOR SALE BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
Our Stock of WINCHESTER GOODS
Ts unequalled in the Commonwealth, Catalogues Free,
PERRY BROS. - -
HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE.
ENO’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
‘FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
m
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See Capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT*’ Without it you hare m
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, BING.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists , &c., everywhere .
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tired.
Tired of sins of mine, and sins of others,
So tired I faint upon the arid road.
The dust of failure ev’ry effort smothers,
E’en proud ambition answers not the goad.
This living death kills hope within the bosom,
I’m like a menial by a tyrant hired,
Who fruit demands from trees nipped in the
blossom,
None knows save God how utterly I’m tired.
The tyrant Life has bound me fast, in fetters
Forged ere my birth; I see, yet cannot reach
The goal the world says is for those, my betters.
The little world of volubles, who preach
From themes compounded from the vaunting
chatter
Of grinning Cant, by grinning Cant admired—
That I dissected things I could not flatter,
These have assailed me until I am tired.
What little seeds of Truth the God has given,
I sowed in love and watered with my tears ;
And more by sorrow than by anger driven,
I wandered down the graveyard of the j ears;
And marked the slain where slayers should belying,
And strove until my frozen blood was fired
To tell the Truth, and why the weak went crying,
Like me, the almost universal Tired.
Tired, deadly tired, of lying pictures, painted
To suit the creed and fashion of the day;
So ye grew strong, no matter what ones fainted,
Or lived in pain, or gasped their lives away.
One time, ah, fool! I took ye for your seeming—
That fool at least, I weep not, has expired,
He lived in days made up of hope and dreaming ;
Hope, too, is dead—and, losing hope, I’m tired.
Here on Hope’s grave, in most regretful slumbers,
I sit and nod and start to life in pain.
But what’s my plaint when Truth points out the
numbers
Of more deserving ones who strive in vain ?
Still one’s own battle always seems the wonder,
We think we’ve fought when only we’ve aspired;
A little sound we magnify to thunder;
A little toil and trouble, and we’re tired.
The world on weary, leaden feet is trudging
Its endless, changeless round amid the stars,
And on its dusty surface ants are drudging
And dragging weary loads on creaking cars,
And all of it is to such little purpose,
The workers are in sordid rags attired;
Some petty heap of soil they metamorphose,
And then they perish—just through being tired.
W.A.
M. ASTON.
Beside the River.
There’s a bend adown the river, where the noon-
day sun-glints quiver,
’Twixt where gum-boughs, gnarled and twisted,
the "water’s bosoms lave,
And each coy ripple on the stream parts with an
azure sparkling gleam
As sapphire fishers dart and dine upon the shoals
of baby bream.
There’s an orchard round the bend there, and the
autumn tintings blend there.
And ’mid the boscage all aglow the mellow cream-
bloomed quinces grow;
While below the reed-beds rustle, and the gnats
are all abustle,
As the bittern hunts, with stately tread, for water-
snail and mussel.
When my soul re-seeks its Giver, may I sleep
beside the river,
Where budless plumes of sombre green o’erpall
the water’s merry sheen,
And the blithe dawning of each Spring my timid
feathered loves will bring
To the trysting tree above my head their sweetest
notes to sing.
vio.
RITA SUNYASEE.
Love May Come.
Love may come a gentle thing,
Hovering on airy wing;
Love may come a burning fire,
Blazing with the soul’s desire,
Cleansing all of dross away,
Leaving nought but love to stay.
Love may come a mighty wave,
Hungry as the open grave,
Bearing out a life that lies,
Shrouded as death’s mysteries,
To cast on the mocking shore
Of a lifeless Nevermore.
Love may come a homely bliss,
For kind care and quiet kiss ;
Bear whatever guise it may,
True love comes to rule and stay—
Unknown how it came to me,
I awoke to love and thee.
N.S.W.
C. A. FORDE.
The Reason.
The lonely homeward track I went,
I met her at the back (I went
That way that I might miss her);
The night was inky dark, and yet
(There wasn’t one to hark) —and yet
I didn’t like to kiss her.
Next day the postman handed me
A scented note, which branded me
A hopeless mark for Cupid :
“You met me all alone, and yet
(You had me on your own)—and yet
You never—Oh ! you stupid ! ”
No brother near, no sister there,
And yet if I had kissed her there,
She would have screamed, I’m thinking ;
•She’d have been sure to smell it, and
Quite sure, likewise, to tell it, and—
The fact was, I’d been drinking.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


A NOVEL PRESENT.^
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
9ct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 16ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
mm
“ ACTS I,IKB A CHARM.”
JONES’
Rheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CURE
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
60LD EVERYWHERE
28. 9d. PER BOTTLE)
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
EVERY WOMAN
m
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
k. It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. ® Budorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, Q.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
MORRISS
IMPERIAL
OINTMENT
CURES
ASTHMA CURE
6RIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
For AsthmaUo people who Buffer from
OPPRESSION in hrpathjng, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA* DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grlmault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by allCh»mitt»,
OLEAC" cures ECZEMA
AND ALL SKIN
DISEASES.
Discoverer—Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., f.r.g.s., m.b. Ph.s., L. Botanist to the King of England
during His Majesty’s Indian tour.
STOPS THE INTENSE ITCHING. BRINGS OUT THE DISEASE.
IS NOT A GREASE. USED IN MELBOURNE HOSPITALS.
Testimonials from sufferers Skin Specialists failed to cure. Advice Free—Personal or by Letter,
Price —2/6, 4/6, 15/-. Postage extra. All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Hordern’s, Foy’s, Pattinson’s, Lasseter’s, Grace Bros. Depots— Horwitz, Pitt Street, and
Elliott Bros. Ltd. Chief Depot— F. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ITCHING HUMOURS
SPEEDY CURE TREATMENT
FOR EVERY HUMOUR.
Bathe the affected parts with hot water and CUTICURA
SOAP, to cleanse the skin and scalp of crusts and scales, and
soften the thickened cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and
apply CUTICURA OINTMENT freely to allay itching, irritation,
and inflammation, and soothe and heal, and lastly take CUTI-
CURA RESOLVENT PILLS, to cool and cleanse the blood.
This pure, sweet, and wholesome treatment affords instant
relief, permits rest and sleep, and points to a speedy, perman-
ent, and economical cure of the most torturing, disfiguring,
itching, burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours,
eczemas, rashes, and irritations, from infancy to age, with
loss of hair, when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, and for all the pur-
poses of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Millions of Women use Cuticura
Soap in the form of baths for annoying irritations, inflammations, and
excoriations, for too free or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes
for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS, CHOCOLATE COATED,
Are a new, tasteless, odourless, economical substitute for the celebrated liquid Cuticura
Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour cures. Put up in screw-
cap pocket vials containing 60 doses. Cuticuka Pills are alterative, antiseptic, tonic,
and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest, most successful and economical
blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives, yet compounded.
Cuticura Remedies art sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British
Depots 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 6 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Pottbb Drug and Chem.
Cob?., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES m “ B Z is °’* v * SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, An.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WILL ANDRADE’S » BOOKS
s^?
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, Illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Astrology,
6d. How to Dance, Is ;
post Is 3d. Howto Wrestle,
9d &Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Tailoring for
Amateurs, Is. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic •
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Mystic Oracle,
6d. Phrenology Made Easy, 6d. House Painting
and Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d ; post, Is 6d.
My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Georgette,
Is ; post,' Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Big Value Premium Budget, 6d.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is ; post Is 3d. Piano
Tuning and Repairing, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, _ls. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d ; post Is 6d.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; posted Is
2d. Australian Doctor', cures for all diseases,
Is 3d; post Is 6d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Self Instructor :
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, Is. Cabinet
Maker’s Handybook, Is 6d. Cabinet Making fop.
Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is 6d. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/3.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d;
post, 2s lOd. Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made
Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is 6d.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is 3d, post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues :—No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6 :
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE —,
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHJ;
MJOUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted - with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pkout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
Hypnotism
m
Reader, why not he able to nee the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feata
| that are possible to the Hypnotist.
' Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
I conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
[gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I hav#
just issued in book form a mammoth
. Illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
|of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artlstio engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt ef 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance ef
a life-time. Address—
m
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
m
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. READ,
street, Melbourne.
m
m
•HousaSta
i\ 0009
tUIM 03AVJ
si oilvas 01
ovoh ssi
Charcoal
Speedily caret Acidity. Flatulence, Heartburn.
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, Ac. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all Impari-
ties in the stomach and bowels,giro* a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards oft all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many on Illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER In
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations, please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L.B., in monogram.’on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
TAEAR SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURSI,
street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
m
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fras, to
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
lend stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites,
CALVERTS
20 per cent.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soap for toilet purposes.
Most useful to prevent or cure insect bites
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, etc.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Enf


Dyspeptic Emesis
A LONG PERIOD OP SUFFERING.
A Permanent Cure in Newtown.
The Case of Mrs. C. WALKER-
(For tht “ Independent.”)
A subject necessarily inviting to all, and
the discussion of -which has of late years
employed many able pens, was recently
touched upon by Mrs. Gertrude Walker, of
No. 17 George-street, Newtown, when chat-
ting with our special representative.
“ It is in reference to the most effective
means of gettipg rid of one’s personal
enemjes that I wish to speak to you,” said
Mrs Walker, “and I think that I am
entitled to speak on the subject because my
liver was out of order for a long time and
my sufferings were extraordinary. lam
tweive years older since my troubles began
with an attack of neuralgia, which I
endured for three months without abate-
ment. >The terrific pains lodged in the back
of my head at first, then they affected my
gums, which became very sore, making it
impossible to properly masticate my food,
and then the tortures shot up to my eyes.
Later on there was not a part of my head
which escaped the maddening agonies of
neuralgia, and often I thought they would
drive me out of my mind.”
“ I expect you got but very little sleep ? ”
enquired the write?.
“ Sleep was denied me altogether,” re-
sponded Mrs. Walker. “Often I have paced
the floor for hours when everybody else has
been fast asleep, and when morning came I
was not fit for anything. My nerves were
all of a shake, nervousness having such a
hold upon me that I was afraid of my own
shadow, and when a knock came to the door
,t caused me to tremble so violently that I
? °”ld scarcely I was afraid at every
turn, an idea being iiTfriy mind continually
that somebody was standing behind me,
though when I looked round there was
nobody, and I could only reproach myself
for my folly. Still, I could not help feeling
timid, and to be so every moment of the day
had the effect of making me fretful and
despondent. I lost flesh till I became as
thin as a skeleton, for which I blame my
poor appetite and the trouble I had in keep-
ing my food down. My stomach was in a
dreadfully weak condition, a fact which
accounted for the frequent fits of vomiting
I had, for it was all the same in effect what
kind of food I took—it would not stay
down. Many a time I thonght I was going
to be suffocated by the sense of oppression
in my eldest, for when it was at its worst I
had to gdsp for breath in a most alarming
way. I could not make out what was
wrong a little distance below my neck.
There seemed to be something pricking me
there—a very tantalising sensation—although
at other times the pain was as great as if I
had strained myself. I cannot imagine
anything more vile than the taste which was
in my mouth, and to make it moi;e un-
pleasant still there was a coating on iny
tongue which made me feel quite sick. On
arising from bed I was distressed by the aches
running through my legs and across my
loins, for they set at defiance any attempt I
might make to do any light work about the
house, although at the best of times I was
so easily overpowered by exhaustion that I
had to let matters take their own course.”
“Did you obtain advice from any
source ? ”
“I should rather think so. A doctor
from Sydney was doing his best for me, yet
I cannot say there was anything satisfactory
resulting from his treatment. lam sure his
medicines did not benefit me, because my
internal troubles multiplied week by week.
If I walked a few yards I was brought to a
standstill by an attack of giddiness, and on
many sccasions when I walked a little
distance in the garden a mysterious sensa-
tion come over me which made it appear
that the further I walked the further the
fence seemed to be away. And then my
heart gave rise to serious reflections. The
slightest excitement or exertion always caused
it to flutter and throb, but even when I was
sitting still it used to suddenly start pal-
pitating with such vengeance that its
beatings could be heard quite distinctly.
The sharp pains which ran through my heart
from time to time also lent color to the idea
that it was diseased in some way or other, and
as the physiol w»* taking did not alleviate
my sufferings in the least, it appeared
certain that I was going to bo an invalid
for life. With my yellow skin and my
features distorted by the pbysicial agony
and the anxiety of mind I was enduring, I
looked as if my days were almost numbered,
but now, thank Heaven, there is a great
difference in my appearance, and although
I am over thirty years of age, I feel as young
and active as a'girl of sixteen.”
“Can you account for Buch a wonderful
transformation.”
“ Easily Clements Tonic did it, and only
for an old friend who told me about that
medicine I might still be suffering, or per-
haps be dead, as nothing else could cure me.
Several days passed before I felt any better
by taking Clements Tonic, and I4>waa
beginning to think that it was no benefactor
oi mine, but I kept on with it and then I
commenced to feel revived. The neuralgic
pains, I noticed, were dying away, and then
they suddenly stopped; but although this
was a great relief, I was more concerned
about my internal organs, and I was in a
state of painful suspense as to whether
Clements Tonic was equal to the occasion.
Sure enough it was. I became regular in
all my habits, freed from the unpleasant
taste in my mouth, my tongue was cleansed,
and I had an appetite to enjoy my food.
The wind which used to arise from my
stomach did not form now, and I never had
the least inclination to vomit my food. I
thought this was a remarkably satisfactory
test of the merits of Clements Tonic,
and when my first purchase was exhausted
I got more, as I meant to get quite well
whilst I had the chance. From that time
onwards I gained strength by leaps and
bounds. As regularly as I lay down to re.- 1,
I had calm and refreshing sleep, and I
did appreciate it after passing so many
wretched nights not long before. Tits
freedom with which I could draw my breath
was evidence that my digestive organs were
being benefited by the use of Clements
Tonic, and as my heart had resumed its
normal pulsation, without ever paining me
either, I knew that it was not diseased, but
that my anxious fears had been induced by
the bad state of my liver. For my nervous
system there was nothing I had taken which
could approach Clements Tonic for general
excellence, as my nerves were left without
a tremor and I could walk anywhere in the
dark without any fear. By adhering
to the use of Clements Tonic for some weeks
I became as healthy as I have ever been, and
for several years my constitution has been
perfectly sound. If these admissfons will
assist people similarly afflicted, you may
publish them in any way you please ”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
1, Gertrum Walker, of 17 George street
Newtown, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin
cerely declare that l have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of five 'olios, and consecutively
numbered from one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full pet-
mission to publish in any way my statements—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any
payment; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, aud
by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Newtown this seven
teenth day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before, me
FREDERICK JONES, J.P.
RTffir
mm
11
74GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victoria.
Ganz Induction Motor. 80LE AGENTS :
The flustral Qtis Engineering fin., [td., South |||elb.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS.
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
PRICE, 4s. Gd.
From all Booksellers, or the Publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 214 George-st., Si/dnei/, Australia.
rcm the strsiflt wohsceh
am
Su/c
msEsan.
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM- BU K CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
jg-OTICE TO MSS.BOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEOROE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Sir. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
entisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Host
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets anti
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES. TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
ifor£{u.Let ■liighU;
Jd&sl
m
Refuse a///m/fat/ons,
Satisfying. Strengthening. Soothing for Infante
.Agreeable. Digestible, Ncyrishi/ig
AGMrS FOR SYM£K
sAYffis AUPORr & Porr£#
I
ridge's food Mins. London, ewo.
DEBILITATED
T\7EAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
vv trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
SiT See my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
jbypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S.. Ene,,
129 Collins-st., Melbourne.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
OURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
S3TZD Untie "y.
XJSEI -
SPOONER’S
suu
==r:i:-m
%
tirzzr-
SPO ONER’S
V
*
*
rv-* * *•**•*
f UTENT LEATHER BOOTS
’ GLAZES Kl 05 M
P,»*Uh*> ' #*• •••
«»•*«*
-«»•««» «*«n%Vl#*
5
L
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
I Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shovs. Saddlers, etc.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
•* They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen*"
m
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. “WO
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAri.
Wore a Torture
BELT.
SUFFERED TERRIBLE AGONY.
From wearing an Electric Belt
charged by the use of
sulphuric nem.
Mr. W. Folley, Alfred Woollen Mills,
Williamstown, Vic., writing to the Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt Co., tells how he
was scarred and burned by the use of a
Free Belt, which he had erroneously
been led to believe was as good as theirs.
He paid £4 for the Free Belt because
he had been convinced that by paying
this cash price he was obtaining a similar
appliance to Dr. McLaughlin’s Famous
rejuvenator which has gained Worrd
Wide fame as a Curative Agent. It goes
to show how misleading are advertise-
ments which seem to offer something for
nothing.
Gentlemen —In answer to your kind in-
quiries after my health, I beg to state that
I have been completely cured of the Scia-
tica that has troubled me for years. I
cannot thank you enough for your gentle-
manly treatment and fair dealing with your
patients, as I know from others that their
treatment has been the same as mine.
I may just as well let you know my ex-
perience in seeking a cure for my trouble
before I purchased one of your High Grade
Belts. I had been under doctors and re-
ceived scant relief; and also tried various
quacks, but it was all the same. I then
placed myself in the hands of a Specialist
(in Melbourne) guaranteed to cure Rheu-
matism and Sciatica, but received very
small benefit from the treatment. I then
had my attention drawn to Electricity.
Well, I thought, “ Never venture, never
win,” so I PROCURED first of all a Belt
for £i and was very much disappointed
because I was informed that it was -neces-
sary to take a long and exceedingly ex-
pensive course of drug treatment. I would
not do this and then I wrote for, and ob-
tained a so-called Free Belt, with a
most “ Wonderful Pedigree,” at a cost of
£ 4. I wore the Belt according to the in-
structions given faithfully for a period of
five weeks, and by that time I was Burnt
and Blistered so badly that I could not
wear it longer, and still no relief was
gained, although the Belt was guaranteed
to Cure Anything in Sciatica in One
Month. You bet I was very much dis-
couraged in regard to Electric Belts.
However, I was persuaded to come and
just see you, gentlemen. I then found
that I had been wearing a Torture Belt
and very Wrongly Applied, and quite
enough to give and patient a Horror of
so-called Electric Belts. After the con-
sultation I decided to place myself in your
hands. I knew my case was very diffi-
cult, as I was compelled to follow my em-
ployment, and standing at the vice was
irksome, and the complaint was a very
stubborn one. However, gentlemen, your
Belt, coupled with your advice, has made
me a grateful patient. I thank you kindly
for supplying me with a remedy which has
Completely Cured Me, and strongly recom-
mend it to all and sundry that I find - are
suffering from the distressing malady
called “ Sciatica.”
I have not been wearing the Belt for the
past fortnight, but have passed it over to
my wife, who has received great benefit
for nervous troubles.
I remain, your grateful patient,
W. FOLLEY
GENUINE BELTS give GENUINE RELIEF.
Send to THE DR. MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
100 W. Market-st., Sydney ; 167£ Swanston-st., Melbourne'
64 Willis-st., Wellington, N.Z.
NOTICE
To sufferers from G out, Rlieu mati sm,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy*
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdhstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy!
all Parasites of Head or Body. ■ ,
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d. -V
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poi.ngdestrk & Tuuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


m
The
Genuine
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
I• I ITIIJJII!;.! * *1:, :'I
3jHULoR::
ju/.l -I I lip-
'/i l;lf*-siC.i |iT; : f •'? S, i ?
• ,i- ill! inf
A ii h i,(in.
'vT,': n:?' SMS
’l'^i|'i.i'r?ui||!T, l |i < J'l. r
HOTEL
DIETROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from,
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted onapplica
tion to The Manager.
King Marine Oil Engines.
2\ to 500 H.P. 1903 MODELS.
Estimates given for Fitting Cargo Boats, Tug Boats, Fishing Boats and Trawlers, Auxiliary
Power or Pleasure Boats. Vessels of all sizes built and fully equipped.
PUMPING PLANTS. REFRIGERATING PLANTS. COLD STORAGE for Fishing Boats.
Information and Prioes furnished by—
j. f. McDermott & co 30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Factory Agents for Australia and the South Seas.
The Pleasure
of smoking is enhanced by the pleasure of being able to offer something you know is good to your
friend—something you have no possible doubt he or she will appreciate—and so you keep
“CAMEO” CIGARETTES
and give happiness to others as well as yourself,
“All who Joy would win, must share it—*
Happiness was born a twin.**
* BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
lOjliS* Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine •• ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled £,-0-U-|-S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
j mv Hoa: hivh
aooo
m
m
All Ghkmists.
f
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ’ Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
/ST For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES. OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
.. rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
%
m
m
Washington H. Soul & Co..
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASEB OF THE HAIR.
Bold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 Georg*
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
>E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
iliri
m
livnii g 11
©
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only an
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W, W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
CAMPBELL OIL ENGINES
m
Portable and Stationary.
—■ 26 Working in Queensland.
The Most Simple Oil Engine using Kerosene only.
Lists and Particulars FREE on application to the
SOLE AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND—
CLARK and FAUSET,
Eagle Street, Brisbane
A COOL SMOKING TOBACCO.
Absolutely Pure, and manufactured ' ■ ,
; 4 * * * c*. : ]
from the finest selected Virginian Leaf. " ■ ~ .
ASR FOR
“KEYSTONE” TOBACCO
Dark and Bright.
Gut or Plug.
All Tobacconists and Storekeepers.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0. 1236.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1903.
Pbioe 6d.
A RESURRECTION-(YES-NO REID 13 ON THE FREETRADE STUMP ONCE AGAIN.)
"ALAS, POOR PUP, I MUST ONCE AGAIN BREAK IN ON YOUR REST. SUCH IS THE STATE OF LIFE. WE MUST DO ANOTHER TURN TOGETHER.'


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co
£l 4 Oeorge-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales!
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERM'S TO SURSGRTBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
fading-direct ta The Bulletin Office Twenty.
Aix Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to ue addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The _ contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers. “
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge m the "Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
( those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
mg two columns in length, or, say, 3000 tvords, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Made and White. *
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and luterestcind adapted for direct reproduction, or
cm?/ interesting photograph illustrative of a current events
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea , but unfitted for direct reproduction
-—i.e. y any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under uihich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Coines of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
Wilson, 22 flout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
T ANCOtJVEß ‘ —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
T/ie'^xxZl^zoz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1903.
The Decaying N.S.W. Labor Party.
The time has come when genuine reformers in
N.fe.W. must re-consider their attitude towards
the Labor Party in the State Parliament. Por
some time past, as that party acquired knowledge
it has lost a certain amount of its original earnest-
ness, has become more politic as it became better
acquainted with the temporary advantages that
can be won by skilful manoeuvring. This
process of acquiring knowledge and of losing
sincerity was emphasised at the inaugura-
tion of the Federal Parliament which took away
from the N.S.W. State party men like Watson,
Hughes, Spence, Thomas and Watkins, and
left behind several other of the more master-
ful members with a grievance against Federa-
tion because they had been rejected by
Federa.l constituencies. The gaps in the party
were filled in obedience to party considerations
rather than on the dictates of principle. The
Labor Party showed a willingness to take as its
candidate any man willing to sign its pledge and
subscribe to its platform, even though he alto-
gether lacked any previous good record as a
Radical, and was, so far as his public past was
concerned, of at least doubtful character. The
party, in short, began to rely too much on its
platform and to look too little to the character of
the men to whom it entrusted its representation.
The consequence was the intrusion of a few men,
who are not in any sense of the word “Labor
men,” or even sound Radicals, and whose sincerity
is not open to question only because the lack of it
is so obvious. All this—the loss of some good
men, the picking up of some very indifferent
men, the sore-headedness of otherwise good
men whose Federal ambitions were thwarted,
together with the fatal growth among almost all
of a spirit of compromise and bargaining—has
brought the party to a lower plane. Seeking
numbers rather than quality, it has lost influence
as it has gained numbers, and it threatens now to
merge into a party of the old familiar stamp,
vitally interested only in the question of “ins”
and “outs,” and ready to trim its sails to almost
any wind for the sake of “ practical politics.”
* * * *
At the time of their entry into Parliament, The
Bulletin welcomed the Labor members as bring-
ing a promise of honesty and sincerity into the
grossness of party politics; and, since, it has looked
to them as the best standard-bearers of reform.
But it becomes more evident every week that
there is no certainty that the present Labor party
?'.v any longer a satisfactory reform party, and that
democrats must cast about for some other hope.
It would be hard to name a single genuine reform
measure which the N.S.W. Labor party is now
sincerely striving to advance; but it is not hard
to point to many political misdoings which it
either tolerates or openly approves. Three of the
most serious complaints which must be urged
against the Labor party, in its role of a soi-disant
R form party, have been brought into special
prominence during the past week. They are :
The Labor party tolerates and encourages a system of
finance which is as dangerous as it is dishonest. It made
no protest against the reckless prodigality of the Owe’
bULMVAN, or against the mal-administration bj- which he
covered with discredit the principle of State employment.
JNow that the Government is warned off the London
market it supports a policy of scraping up every penny
possible by underhand borrowing, and, at the same time,
ot allowing the roads and public works to be starved of
their proper maintenance money, instead of insisting that
Che situation shall be faced, and an honest system of
squaring revenue with expenditure adopted. It is
willing- to follow the See-Owe’Sdllivan Government to
finance * n *^ le Quagmire of muddling Micawber
Through some of its principal members it flouts and
opposes the first great land nationalisation scheme ever
proposed in-Australia, and wails for the land increments
caused by the building of the Federal capital to be given,
in whole or in part, to the private landlord. This may
not be the official attitude of the party, but it is the atti-
tude of its deputy' head, Edden, and some other pro-
minent members, who are not contradicted by others of
the caucus in their public campaign of narrow Tory pro-
vincialism. r
It can no longer boast of that jealousy of the honor of
t would insist that in the administration
of the Government, not only corruption, but the appear-
ance of anything approaching to it, must be avoided.
• • • *
As to the first of these charges, it is now a
wearisome and oft-repeated tale, but none the less
still calling for serious attention. The’SEE-OwK’-
Sullivan finance is rapidly bringing the State to
the very verge of a crisis. Unable to obtain
money in London, all sorts of desperate expedients
are being adopted to scrape together loan money
localljr*ftnd these are of such a nature as to even
affect the credit of the State’s banks. Withal,
there is a big shortage in loan incomings and it is
being met by the simple and foolish process of
starving the maintenance of public works—one of
the worst features of Victorian Kyabramism.
ihe Labor party makes no suggestion as to
ending the muddle and extravagance, as to finding'
by taxation the money to which the State is
committed. It neither insists that economies
shall be honest and real (not merely the passing
on of the bill for repairs to another Administra-
tion), nor proposes to meet the deficit by the
direct taxation which is part of its platform. An
honest _ disposal on its part to meet the present
situation would please neither the See-Owe’-
Suluvan nor the Carruthers section, and
probably would not have the ghost of a chance of
acceptance in the present Parliament. But it is
what the public wants and what the public will
insist on having, one day, from some party. The
Labor party, it is becoming mournfully clear, will
not be that party.
• » « *
The second count of the indictment is, in respect
to its practical effect, not so important; in respect
w? a l *!L ’lustration of the extent to which the
N.S.W. Labor party has degenerated, perhaps
more important—certainly more significant.
What Messrs. Edden and Holman and Dacey
may say as regards the site of the Federal capital
wdl, probably, not have much influence, one way
or the other, in the Australian Parliament, but
when they— apparently with the full approval of
their fellow members—come out publicly against
land nationalisation, and demand that, not the
people of Australia but the private landlord shall
be the harvester of as much as possible of the un-
earned increment of the capital area, the effect
upon the Labor voters of this State must be a
disillusionment. The Labor platform would be
best served by the nationalisation of the largest
possible area as a Federal territory. Yet Edden,
deputy-leader of the Labor party, said in the
N.S.W. Assembly on October 13 :
I cannot for the life of me understand how the Federal
Government could have the audacity to demand, or even
to ask, from this State, 1000 square miles of territory.
What do they want it for ? If I had my way, the seat of
Government should be brought down somewhere about
National Park, and occupy about 50 acres. Let us tell
the Federal Government straight in its teeth that, as far
as this Parliament is concerned, we are totallv opposed
to the granting of any such request as that which they
have had the audacity to make. lam very pleased to
say that the party to which I have the honor to belong
are totally opposed to granting the request of the Federal
Parliament, and will oppose the proposal at every turn,
and do everything we can to prevent its accomplishment'
which is no doubt the wish of many of the leading spirits
in the Federal Parliament
Subsequently, in an interjection—
Mr. Edden : Do not let the hon. member be under any
misapprehension. I did not speak on behalf of the Labor
party. I said, “I think.” The Labor party are responsible
for their own actions 1
Mr. Wood : The hon. member spoke as deputy-leader of
the Labor party, and he spoke of his party.
Mr. Edden : I said, “ I think the majority of them, at
any rate ! ”
Which would seem to indicate that Edden’s first
most explicit statement was either a mistake on
his part, or an indiscreet admission of a fact which
it was considered best to conceal—that the N.S.W.
Labor party is totally opposed to the nationalisa-
tion, by the only truly democratic Australian
Parliament, of a territory large enough to secure
for the people the full benefit of land increments
caused by the building of the national capital.
But the disavowal does nothing but add to a
betrayal of principle an impression of lack of
candor. Holman and Dacey have, before this,
expressed the same view as Edden, and the Labor-
party, as a party, has not repudiated their views.
It must be concluded that, as a party, the N.S.W.
Labor party thinks with Edden, and is in this
important respect a Landlords’ party.
* * * *
As to the third charge—the most serious which
can be brought against a political party, for it
marks the last stage of degeneration when there is
no longer a zealous regard for the purity of
administration— The Bulletin will not say
that it is wholly established, but it is very
nearly established. The Labor party at least
brought itself under strong suspicion of con-
niving at a transaction which is certainly
an improper one, on October 14th. On that
night the Government brought down a Bill
partly to enable it to borrow more money through
the Savings Bank, partly to approve an agree-
ment into which it had already entered for
the lease of land from the Citizens’ Life Assur-
ance Co. for the purpose of building a new
Savings Bank. It is open to question
whether the present site of the Savings Bank
could not contain a sufficiently large build-
ing. It is certain that there are many blocks of
land owned by the State suitable for the accom-
modation of the Savings Bank if new premises are
necessary. No need exists for the leasing of land
from a private oi. lo enter into such an agree-
ment without consulting Parliament was a serious
error on the part of the Government. When it is
further considered that Federal Minister Lyne
and State Premier See are directors of the
Citizens’Life Assurance Co. which is to make such
a very good bargain with the State, it is apparent
that a strong additional reason existed why no
contract should have been entered into between
this co. and the Government without preliminary
Parliamentary discussion or approval. This view
was put before the House and should have been
endorsed by a repudiation of the contract. That
seemed to be at first the opinion of the Labor
Party judging by an interjection from Mr.
Edden. But subsequently the party gave a block
vote against an amendment by Mr. Mahony
which would have had that effect.
That mere suspicion, added to so much of
known fact, as to the Labor Party’s anti-Federal
and anti-democratic and dishonest attitude on
certain questions of politics, suffices to make.it a
pressing question whether the Party has not out-
grown its usefulness and lost its sincerity. That
question will be answered very shortly by the
electors, and it can only be answered in one way
Dy democrats if there is not a prompt change in
the minds of a majority of the N.S.W. Labor
members. The Labor party must not make the
mistake of “considering itself an end—a reform
in itself. It is merely a means to an end,
an instrument of reform. No actual good
is effected by creating a Labor party—taking
this and that publican, lawyer, or mechanic,
branding him “Labor,” and putting liim into
Parliament. He must, when there, be one of a
party to act for the benefit of the people at large.
That cannot be said to be the case now.
The N.S.W. Labor party seems disorganised,
demoralised. It must either be regenerated or
perish, and pass away into the political limbo
where rests Jacob Gabbard. Jacob Garrard
was once a Labor party.
Wanted—A Freetrade Leader who
Believes in Freetrade.
The alleged leader of Australia’s alleged Free-
trade party has made a preliminary announce-
ment of his policy for the coming Federal election.
George Reid and his dog have turned another
temporary somersault, and the great inverted
clown is, for the moment, in a state of violent
Toryism. He is against the law which prohibits
th» importation of contract labor; he is against
the employment of white labor on mail steamers
subsidised by Australia; and he is savagely
opposed to the education clause as a test for
excluding undesirable niggers. Because he, when
Premier of N.S.W., was the first man to adopt
this educational test; and because in his unspeak-
able political crookedness George Reid is always
most bitter in his denunciations of the thing he did
himself ; and because the tiling he says is most
degrading and loathsome always proves to be the
thing that used to be a leading feature of his own
■ policy—it is natural that he should be especially
violent over the educational test. But these, after
all, are mere side issues. The really important
facts are that George Reid appears again as the
leader of the Freetrade party in Australia, and
demands that he shall be made the Freetrade Pre-
mier of Australia, and he says that Freetrade is
the only sure road to political salvation —and,
behold, there follows the old, unaccountable dis-
appointment ! There isn’t a single promise of
Freetrade in all the Reid programme. The
Freetrade apostle asks to be made Freetrade
Premier on the strength of his assurance that
he won’t do so very much damage to the
Protectionist tariff after all. Australia is still
waiting for the Freetrade leader who believes
in his own creed; who doesn’t find his
own gospel too dirty to be handled, and his own
faith too brutal and callous to be practised ; who
has sufficient confidence in his own ship to put to
sea in it; who will fire off his own gun with an
honest assurance that it won t burst. And
Australia has waited a very long time.
• * * *
The essential feature of Freetrade, as the term
is commonly understood, is that no local industry
shall have any tariff preference over a similar
foreign industry. There is nothing in the policy
to prevent the raising of an adequate customs
revenue. A Freetrade Government can tax all
the things which, for climatic and other
reasons, can’t be produced here; where
there is no local industry to be protected
these duties are not protective. And it can
tax imported spirits, wine, beer, sugar, tobacco,
cigars, &c., and levy an exactly equal excise duty
on the local products, and thereby get abundant
revenue while preserving its cardinal principle
infact. Then if it charges the same postage on
local papers as on foreign ones, and abolishes all
radway rate and wharfage rate preferences that
now exist in favor of local produce, it can get,
under a strictly Freetrade regime, all the revenue
it can possibly want —unless the country goes-to
utter smash through Freetrade, and w'e'have the
assurance of Reid, M‘Millan, Bruce and
Pumpkin Smith, Jawbone Neibd, and other
eminent Freetraders that, instead of going to
smash, it will blossom like the rose and flourish
like the cedar that used to hang out on Lebanon.
« * * *
Yet all these people, when in power, have
avoided the policy which they say is the sure
harbinger of prosperity, as if it were a serpent.
When M'Miluan and Bruce Smith were in
office in N.S. W. they protected beer, dried fruits,
bacon, biscuits, butter, candles, cement, cheese,
cider, confectionery, fish, galvanised iron goods of
all kinds, tongues, jams and jellies, red and
\«4*ite.J#fd, preserved milk, molasses, treacle,
sugar, wire-netting, paints, timber of almost
every description, salt, railway sleepers, tobacco,
snuff, cigars, cigarettes, wine, varnish, news-
papers, &c., and they protected the local agricul-
turist by giving him special railway rates on his
produce. When George Reid was in office, he
largely protected sugar, beer, newspapers, wine,
tobacco, cigars,-cigarettes, confectionery, &c., and
he also gave a large general Protection to the agri-
culturist by giving him specially low railway rates.
These people were not driven to this iniquity
for the sake of revenue; they sacrificed a great
deal of revenue and their blessed principles at the
same time by not levelling up the local taxes on
beer, sugar, wine, tobacco, etc., the postage rates
on local papers, and the railway rates on local
produce, so as to make them equal to the rates
charged on foreign articles. All this is an old
story, but in view of the present attitude of the
alleged Freetrade Party That Is Afraid To Practise
Its Own'Doctrines the old story is always reason-
ably new,
■5 « * *
Australia is overrun just now with Reids and
Smiths and Cooks who are prepared to hold forth
at' almost any length about the blessings and
advantages of pure, unadulterated Freetrade; it
hasn’t even half a Cook— and it is difficult to
any thing much smaller than half a Cook —
who will 'pledge himself, if he gets into office, to
practise pure, unadulterated Freetrade. There
isn’t one leading Freetrader in the crowd who
isn’t, if his own words and acts can be ac-
cepted as evidence, either an unmitigated liar
when he says he believes Freetrade to be the
most beneficial policy for the country; or an
unmitigated traitor who practised a certain
measure of Protection in the past, and is prepared
to practise it in the future, for the deliberate pur-
pose of injuring the country ; or an unmitigated
cur who sold, or is willing to sell, his alleged
principles for office. On their past records and
their present statements, there isn’t one Freetrade
leader in the present campaign who doesn’t
deserve the unmitigated contempt of every honest
man. The old allegedly Freetrade Governments of
N.3.W. lied when they said they practised
Freetrade. They lied when they said that what-
ever prosperity the State then enjoyed was owing
to Freetrade, for there was no such thing in exist-
ence. If they acted as they did because they
knew that the country, when once it got an
experience of real Freetrade (when once it ceased
to have its beer and sugar and tobacco, and wine
and newspapers and agricultural produce pro-
tected) would turn and rend them, then they lied
when they said N.S.W. was a country with a
fixed and solid attachment to Freetrade prin-
ciples. And they either lied, when they said they
believed pure, genuine Freetrade to be the best
thing for the country, or else they lied when they
said they were doing their best for the good of
ij
old Freetrade Governments was a lie.
o * * *
If there is any real Freetrade party in Australia
it had better hunt up leaders who are prepared to
run the Government on real Freetrade principles,
and thus show that they are not ashamed of their
creed, and who are prepared toYeally confer upon
the country those alleged blessings which they say
Freetrade will bring. The idea of such a vast
stock of blessings lying handy on the shelf, ready
to be lifted down at a moment’s notice, and every-
body flatly refusing to lift them down, is pathetic.
But if the Freetrade Party proposes to get into
power, and keep in power, in the old way, by
denouncing Protection, then by practising Pro-
tection and declaring falsely that it doesn’t
practise Protection, by declaring that the results
of its semi-Protective policy are evidences of
the benefits of Freetrade, by subsidising with
heavy Protection alleged Freetrade newspapers
to bolster up its lie, by scoffing at the
political party whose policy it has stolen under
false pretences, and by delivering long speeches
about the beauties and advantages of the creed
that it dare not use—then it is too degraded a
thing for any honest man to touch. And if it
isn’t going to do this, then, as already stated,
it badly wants new captains. The present ones,
on the evidence of their words and actions, are a
bad lot.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Capital
In striking Tumut out of the Federal Capital Bill
and nominating Bombala, the Senate has acted
honestly and patriotically, and N.S.W. is the very
last State that has a right to complain. When
the Federal Capital question was younger than it
is now, the N.S.W. State Government nominated
a commissioner—selected on the ground that he
was the best man obtainable for the work—to
report on possible site. He reported that Eden-
Bombala was far and away the best—that by com-
parison the other sites were left hull down on the
horizon. This was the report of a man who had
no constituents to placate ; who didn’t depend on
the importers of Sydney for advertisements and so
wasn’t called upon to lie on behalf of the site
the trade of which would go to Sydney; who had
no land to sell to build a capital on; who didn t
require to consider whether any place was in Bill
Lyne’s electorate or in anybody else’s electorate.
The Senate has accepted liis report, and unless
N.S.W. is prepared to say that its Commissioner
is a liar or a fool it has no reason to object. Also,
unless the other States can show better reason
than they have done they have no reason to object
either. _ The Senate has simply disregarded all the
log-rolling of the House of Representatives and
gone back to the merits of the case ; and it must
be remembered that at ballot, when every
man presumably voted for what he believed to
be the best site, and before the logs began
to roll, the House of Representatives gave its
heaviest vote for Bombala, thereby endorsing the
action of the Senate and the report of the N.S.W.
Commissioner. It now remains to be seen what
the Representatives will do with the matter. The
action of the Senate gives the other House a
chance to repent of its provincialism, and fall in
with the national Australian view. Those mem-
bers who fought for N.S.W. interests, or Queens-
land or Victorian interests, may now expect the
parochial section of their constituents to be satis-
fied with the efforts already made, and may regard
themselves as free to vote as the public interest
directs. _ The parish-pump interest has been pla-
cated quite sufficiently. There is not the slightest
doubt that the majority of the Representatives
is, at heart, just as sure of the suitability of
Bombala as the majority of the Senate. Except-
ing a few dainty weaklings who fear the winter
cold of Bombala (there is no reason, by the way,
that Parliament should meet in winter), and a
few slaves of the Age newspaper, who are willing
to do anything to keep the capital in Melbourne,
or a few slaves of the Telegraph to whom
Sydney’s calico importing trade is the beginning
and end of all things, there are no members of
the Representatives who do not honestly consider
Eden-Bombala the best site. Electioneering
exigencies have, so far, interfered to some extent
with the honest expression of that opinion, but
since the Senate has declared definitely for
Bombala, the opportunity is given for a re-
consideration of the matter on patriotic prin-
ciples. The N.S.W. and Queensland members,
in particular, who are anxious to have the question
settled by this Parliament, should hasten to fall in
with the Senate’s decision. That is the only way
to reach a settlement 1 in this Parliament. If the
question is allowed to stand over until the next
Parliament, the delay that will thus be caused
may stretch into years. Following the example
of the first Parliament, the second would proba-
bly postpone action until the closing days of its
life. That is a habit which so many Governments
have —of keeping back any proposals which are of
value for “bait” as long as possible. In the
game of politics it would be considered foolish to
settle to-day that which, if hung up till to-morrow,
can be used as a threat or a means of cajolery.
In the closing days of the second Parliament
another disagreement might arise, and the
question be again left unsettled. All things
point to the necessity of pressing on a
settlement now. It is now or some time
in the very indefinite future. As regards the
people of Tumut, who hung out their premature
flag and drank their premature beer, there is this
to be considered. Just now they have a chance of
a Federal capital about 100 miles from their doors.
By next Parliament the Armidale interest may
have looked up, or a movement may have set in for
repealing the Federal capital clause altogether, and
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, and a dozen other
places may be clawing wildly for the honor and
dignity. Therefore Tumut had better instruct its
Bill Lyne to reach out for the half loaf that is
available, for next year there may be no bread.
There very often is no bread next year.
♦
George Reid “ Can’t Sufficiently Express
His Contempt.”
George Reid, in his speech at the opening of
the Imported Shoddy campaign:
There is another thing to which I want to refer, about
which there will also be a difference of opinion. I allude
to the Immigration Restriction Act. I cannot sufficiently


express my contempt for the lines on which that Bill was
drawn. The Act says that any person arriving in a ship
at any Australian port depends for his admission on a
possible ordeal, that a Customs officer may come up to
him, and if he is a YorUshireman ask him to write from
dictation fifty words in French or German —(laughter)—
or if he is a German fifty words from dictation in French
or English ; or if he is an Italian fifty words in Russian.
(Renewed laughter.)
Extract from Coghlan’s “Wealth and Progress
of New South Wales ” for 1900-01, page 955 (words
in brackets are The Bulletin’s comments):
In 1896 (when George Reid was Premier) the question
of the influx of the alien races was deemed by Parliament
to be sufficiently grave to justify it in extending the pro-
visions of the Chinese Restriction and Regulation Act of
1888 so as to exclude from the State the colored races of
Asia and Africa and the colored inhabitants of the islands
in the Pacific arid Indian Oceans. An important feature
of. the Bill was that it proposed to restrict the immigra-
tion of persons belonging to the inferior races, whether
they were or were not British subjects by birth, and the
existing Act was so amended that Chinese born in British
territory were shut out from free entry into the State.
. . . This measure, which was termed the Colored Races
Restriction and Regulation Act, 1896, was reserved for
the assent of the Queen, which was withheld. . . . The
Immigration Restriction Act of 1898 was accordingly
passed (being drafted and introduced by the. Reid
Government, and passed by the Reid majority),- and was
assented to on the 3rd August of that year. This Act,
which came into force three months after the Royal
assent was proclaimed, prohibits the immigration into
Keib South Wales of any person who, when asked to do so
by a properly-appointed officer, should fail to write out in
some European language and sign an application to the
Colonial Secretary in a specified form.
George Reid looks at his own idea adopted by
the Australian Government, and “cannot suffici-
ently express his contempt.” If he means that he
cannot sufficiently express his contempt for him-
self a good many people will agree with him.
Propsting’s Troubles.
Tasmania’s reforming Government is making so
little progress that people have almost forgotten
the good intentions with which it started busi-
ness. The Propsting Ministry commenced by
making the usual bad mistake ; it decided to be
strictly constitutional in its dealings with a grossly
ignorant, selfish and unpatriotic Upper House —a
House of narrow-minded and parochial bigots, in
dealing with whom constitutional methods are as
out of place as is remonstrance when applied to a
bear, or the offer of a tract to a swordfish. The
Propsting Government should have set out with
a clear understanding that its House of Dodery
cared nothing for justice, political honor, or politi-
cal decency ; that that House was fixedly resolved
never to see the necessity of anything that could
lead to it being called upon to pay its fair share of
taxation ; that it was political hog and had to be
driven accordingly. Instead the Propsting
Government treated the lamentable institution as
a gathering of rational beings. The results have
been remarkable. The House of Dodery rejected
the Bill for economising on the salaries of future
Governors by 11 votes to 3, The same day it
rejected the Lotteries Amendment Bill by seven
votes to six. About half-an-hour later the
Government’s Early Closing Bill went down the
Council stairs in a heap by seven votes to four.
The Bill for the abolition of the tax on incomes
derived from personal exertion received the same
sort of treatment. Probably Premier Propsting-
would have begun to fight the gang of brutally
selfish landlords about this time if he had
known how, but he didn’t ; it requires a
stronger man with a far more original mind
to get out of the constitutional rut at such
a time. Propsting allowed his own House—-
the Assembly—to reduce his proposed graduated
land tax, and to almost abolish his proposed
absentee tax. He “ conferred ” with the Council
about its refusal to abolish the tax on in-
comes derived from personal exertion; and the
Council, with its usual resolve not to tax itself as
a landowner, proposed to sanction the abolition of
the tax if it were replaced by a house duty of 6d.
in the £ (or less when the finances allowed) on the
rateable value of each house worth £lO a year or
more, said tax to he paid by the tenant in every case.
It was not to be a charge on the property ;
it was not to be recoverable from the land-
lord; and it was to cease while the property
was unoccupied. This would be, to all intents
and purposes, the tax on small incomes in
a worse form than ever. The present tax:
strikes the man with over £lOO a year income ;
the proposed one would strike everybody who-
lived in a house worth 4s. a week or upwards, SO'
it would even rope in the man with 30s. a week.
Yet there appears to be a tendency to view the
occupiers’ tax seriously, and to describe it as a.
reasonable compromise. The weakening Prop-
STING has given an assurance that he will propose
no fresh taxation on land, and that about knocks
out any hope that he will be able to keep his other
promise—to charge in future all unproductive
public works to revenue; he won’t have the neces-
sary revenue to pay for unproductive works. Im
the early days of the session, when the Council
first began to throw his financial measures down
the stairs, Premier Propsting, instead of declaring;
war against that disgraceful institution, asked the
Governor for a dissolution of the Assembly, and:
was refused. If he had got the dissolution it.
would have made no difference—the Council
doesn’t mind how often the Assembly dissolves ;.
but up to that time the Assembly had been,
supporting Propsting strongly, and the base
ingratitude of the proposal, to put its members to.
the trouble, risk and expense of a dissolution,
because the other House was cantankerous as.
usual, didn t make it feel better towards Prop-
sting. The Propsting Government now proposes-
to bring in a Bill providing for a joint sitting as a
remedy for deadlocks between the two Houses,
and when the Council has thrown that measure-
outalso it will be about time to close the session,
and let the well-meaning failures go home for
a rest. What Premier Propsting has plainly
failed to realise is that there is no possibility of
reforming anything in Tasmania until he has.
first radically reformed or utterly abolished the
House of Dodery, and unless he is prepared to-
stop supplies, and let the whole machine of State
go on strike till the House of Dodery consents to.
its own reformation or abolition, he may as well
leave the business alone. There is no strictly
constitutional means by which a constitutionally
immovable body, full of the worst intentions, may-
be shifted.
■ •
The Weeping Sharebroker.
The cowardly weepfulness of the Australian e®nr-
mereial classes is one of the most depressing;
features in this country’s outlook. As a sample;,
this is taken from the report of T. J. Thompson;
and Sons, sharebrokers, Sydney (most share- re-
ports contain the same kind of weep):
It is one dead level of stagnation. We are taxed! alll
round up to the hilt, and nearly every penny we earn goes-
to support an improvident Government. The Labor Party
look upon the position thus created as a noble object, no-
doubt, but the shoe is beginning to pinch with a vent-
geance. The labor leagues and unions are-the masters-of:
the situation, and this fact alone has successfully stopped!
immigration and encouraged emigration. There are-no-
inducements whatever for any man to seek for a home ini
Australia, and, as an influx to our shores means-capital
brought to the State, the Government thereby kills the
goose laying the golden eggs.
Australia is full of this poisonous literature, issued
by a tearful crowd which is very, sorry for itself.
In Sydney the municipal taxation is about one-
fifth of the English average. The income-tax is
less than half the English figure. Dozens of small,
vexatious imposts that afflict the Britisher are
unknown in Australia. Australia is not taxed up
to the hilt ; it is, on the whole, a very lightly-
taxed country. The labor leagues and unions,
being only a small minority in Parliament, are
not masters of the situation, except through the
incapacity of the class to which Thompson and
Sons belong—a class whose unfitness for self-
government is something pitiable. If that class
didn’t vote for Carruthers in State politics, and
for the Reid push in Federal politics, then both
the State and Federal Governments would he
independent of the Labor party and it wouldn’t
dominate things. It is the irreconcilable attitude
of a hopeless and sore-headed Freetrade minority
which gives Labor its commanding position. The
Labor domination didn’t stop immigration. As
regards Australia in general, immigration practi-
cally came to an end in 1892 when the incom-
petence and dishonesty of the class which Thomp-
son and Sons admires brought about the disgrace-
ful bank smash ; but the State where immigration
stopped most definitely was Victoria, where there
never was any Labor domination. The commercial
class of Australia, with its lies, its weeping, its
self-pity, its unmanly lamentation because it has
to pay taxes which in . other countries would be
regarded as very light, its maudlin helplessness,
and its complaints about not being treated pro-
perly, is a sorry spectacle. The Labor papers,
when things go badly with the cause they repre-
sent, are angry and defiant; the commercial pub-
lication suggests a henpecked individual shedding
tears against a horse-trough.
Tiie Meddling Country Councillor.
It is surely time that the Victorian Government
spoke a few plain words to the bustling riobodies
■who infest the country municipal councils, and
;gave them to understand that their business is to
attend to their roads and bridges, and »thistles,
and insanitary cow-yards. Just at present, the
councils are out on one of their worst jamborees,
in connection with the Government eoirtpulsory
land purchase proposals. The North Ovens coun-
cil opened the ball with a circular to all other
municipal councils, asking for their “ co-operation*
and support” in opposing such an unjust and
unnecessary law; and, all over the State, fat
squatters and landlords are “ co-operating ” with
the greatest vigor. These country councils are
almost wholly composed of large landowners, so
that their unanimity on this question is not sur-
prising, though their opinion is about as valuable
as that of a conference of dingoes on the merits of
a Scalp Bonus Act. For example, one of the
councils—Mortlake—which has decided to “co-
operate,” contains (out of 12 members) eight squat-
ters. So far, only one council has decided—by a
majority of one ! —that the matter is outside the
:scope of its municipal duties, and in this case
the Argus is careful to point out that the
•opinion of the majority was not in favor of the
Act. A few years ago most of the councils
kept religiously aloof from political matters, but
the glory of the Kyabram conferences and the
importance of the delegates, together with a cheap
trip to Melbourne, have demoralised most of them,
and the old style of council that attended to its
work, rooted up its thistles, and built its own
bridges, is rapidly becoming extinct. These very
same councils which are spending the ratepayers’
money in trips to conferences lately quoted the
Local Government Act as a conclusive reason for
not spending money in stamping out the swine
fever in their districts. Nowadays the Govern-
ment cannot open its mouth without a long pro-
cession of fat, short-breathed, long-whiskered
country aldermen wending their way to Melbourne
a few days later to enter a “protest.” Even in
the reign of the Tory Irvine the, streets of
Melbourne are half the time blocked with muni-
cipal delegates and deputations protesting against
his departure from the worst Tory principles, and
what will happen when a Democratic Ministry
comes into power is too awful to think about. The
Ministry has a new Local Government Aot in
hand, and the best advice that can be given is that
a clause be inserted making it : a felony for any
council to discuss or pass resolutions concerning
political questions; and providing that any council
infringing the law shall get no Government money
either as endowments, grant, or “compensation
for license fees” for a period of three years.
Unless something of the sort is done, Local
Government will become a dead letter in Victoria.
The election of persons to spend their time circu-
larising each other about the doings of Parliament
isn’t Local Government; it is debating society
with whiskers on it and grass-seeds in its hair.
5 + ,
The Splendid National Resources Again;
A pitiful little deputation waited on N.S. W. Lands
Minister Cp.ick, tne other day, and implored him
to help the people it represented to exchange their
selections in the Central Division for something
that would give them a chance of a decent living
closer in. They did not come from the farthest
west, or even from the west either; they came, in
fact, from a part around Condobblin, less than
270 miles from Sydney, which the men farther out
regard as at least half way to Eden. Yet of the
place that looks green, compared with the western
half of the State, the deputation drew this
picture:—
Originally, in 1890, 85 selectors took up land on the Mel-
rose Estate, and at the present time there were only 41
there, and out ol that 41 he did not think a single man
could say that he had earned a shilling during the last
three years. He pointed out that the estate was taken
up 33 years ago, the area comprised being 535,000 acres.
Soon after being taken up there were 220,000 sheep on it,
bur, now there were only about 7000 sheep there alto-
gether.
Ami the Minister could, for the moment, only
sympathise—and promise not to ask for any rent
for five years, if necessary. Beyond that there
was no power to go. Certainly, though the selec-
tors had undertaken to pay £1 an acre for it, the
land was obviously not worth 55.; and, even if
there were any provision for making an exchange
—which there isn’t—how much good land, he
wanted to know, could they expect to get in ex-
change for land that they had proved to be not
worth ss. ? Also, if the State took back the land
on even the 55.-an-acre basis, what was it going to
do with the country when it got it back? The
deputation didn’t know; and neither did
the Minister. The only thing that anybody
could suggest was that, anything approaching
close settlement having proved a disastrous and
cruel failure, the State should simply lock the
land up again. That was the suggestion of Scobie,
M.L. A., who knows the Far West as few men do ;
while the deputation believed much the same
thing—that the district could never be handled
except in large blocks at a peppercorn rent; and
this i 3 probably the unpleasant fact. So far as
the State is concerned the incident discloses,
indeed, two unpleasant facts. The first is that,
even the more favored parts of the West having
been proved unfit for settlement, an enormous
sum must be written off what were thought to be
the national assets; the second that, the State
having spent a vast sum in “developing the
natural resources of the country,” and a great deal
more than half of the country having been proved
not to have any natural resources that will stand
developing, the vast sum spent to develop them
must be written off, too. N.S.W. (that is to say,
Sydney) has had the vague idea that there were
almost boundless areas behind it, to which it only
had to give railways and post-and-telegraph offices
and Government dams to settle upon it producers
in vast numbers. Now it is finding out that it
isn’t that sort of country at all, and that, as the
result of attempting to make it carry more, it
really won’t carry half as much as it would before
it was “improved ” by all this vast expenditure of
borrowed money.
♦
A New Blind Leader.
Brisbane’s new paper, the Daily Mail, began
its career with one article on “ Public Borrowing”
and another reviewing generally the Australian
financial situation. Apart, for the moment, from
what the Mail has to say, it is, anyhow, some
satisfaction to find that these matters are now
reckoned as of so much importance that a
new paper must say something about them with
its first breath. But, beyond that, there is not
much satisfaction to be got from the Mail’s atti-
tude. True, in the vague and general terms in
which the older papers expressed themselves even
at the height of the borrowing boom, it says
that we must be careful that we must
see to it that capital is ; only “judiciously
expended.” For the rest, ipstead of stressing our
Vast borrowings, it stresses “ our vast natural re-
sources.” “ This State comprises nearly 428
million acres of land, of which only 17 million
acres have been alienated,” it says. “The un-
alienated balance, at the average price of ss. per
acre, forms a State asset worth 102 f millions
sterling. . . Our State debt is £39,300,000, much
of the interest of which is met by net earnings
from railways and other productive works.” This,
and the rest of it is the language of a paper whichi;
can be trusted to advocate more borrowing so soon
as anyone can be found who will lend—of a.
paper which is satisfied that Queensland can be.
pulled deeper yet into the mire without smother-
ing it. What Queensland needed was a paper
which would tell it that already it carries the*
greatest public debt per head in the world ;:
and the Daily Mail tells it, instead, that,
it has plenty of assets' yet to put into pawn,,
and that its public lands, which, under the pre-
sent system, are all required to pay current ex-
f enses, can be relied upon to pay its debts with.
t needed a paper to tell it that, while Victoria,
has spent only £6 per head of its borrowings on
works which do not yield revenue, Queensland,
has spent over £29 ; and yet Victoria finds itself
driven into an ignominious position in the house,
of Bull-Cohen. But the Daily Mail doesn’t
remind Queensland of that; it tells it instead,
that “old residents unanimously believe that-
good seasons have now set in, and that
we shall soon find adversity succeeded by
a high degree of prosperity.” Queensland
needed a paper that would tell it that even its so-
called reproductive works are a failure, and that,
the railways, which are the most important of the-
revenue-producing undertakings, don’t now pay,
and never have anything like paid, their way.
It needed a paper to tell it that, in order to keep
the railways running—the railways which repre-
sent the best part of the debt—the State has hiid
to subsidise them to the extent of over £3,100,000
during the past 10 years ; and it needed a paper
to ring the fact in its ears that that subsidy
has been provided simply by borrowing the
money. But the Daily Mail tells it
none of these and the other things it
needs to be kept reminded of—of the other fact,
for instance, that; within 20 yfeara, it will have to
raise £26;000,000 to pay and that
it has not even the beginnings of a.sinking fund.
Instead, it drones out the old* familiar feqngs of
“ Never Mind and “ Let it Slide; ’■’ and shows
itself one of the essy-going, shiftless' crowd “that
will at the first opportunity invite Queensland to
go and “ have another;” . . t
• - , . ’/prfrn —j
The Australian Fatman and his friends,-who write
in the Sunday Slimes that socialistic legislation
and a tyrannical Industrial Arbitration Court are
driving people out of Australia to make fortunes
in U.S.A., must have had a bowled-out feeling
when the American files brought full accounts of
the trial of the Yankee union “ walking delegate”
for alleged blackmail of the master builders of
sNew York and Chicago. During the trial, it was
alleged that, in 12 months, the master builders
had been bled to the extent of $400,000 under
threat of strikes. Therefore, according to the
local Tory’s own yarn, the employer is Worse off
,in the paradise of private enterprise, where there
is no Industrial Arbitration Court, than he.is in
N.S.W. where the nefarious court exists. Of
course, in a community in which the law of simply
and demand is supposed to be the sole arbiter
between employer ai:d employee, the extortions
of the walking delegate were quite logical. This
workmen were justified in asking for all they
could get, and if it meant ruin to the master
builder it was the master builder’s funeral. If
the master couldn’t apply the starvation argument
he ought to have given in, according to the rules
of the game as laid down by the Telegraph and
the Sunday Shellback. Such a process of blend-
ing individual employers is impossible in N.S W.,
the Arbitration Court attends to such things:
Most often it is Capital that plays the tyrant, and
for that reason Capital usually objects to arbitra-
tion courts, and demands that disputes between
employer and employee should be settled by free
fight—the employer giving as little as he can, and
the employee exacting as much as; he can. And
when he gets the worst of. the deal, he cables all
over the earth about the iniquity of Labor.
.. t — -■ ... ■
About a returned M.L.C. :
When this country’s M.L.O. comesback from “ foreign
parts ” and is interviewed, the barrenness that he brings
back with him is often painful to contemp’ate. ; The
latest sample is R. J. Black, of N.S.W. Upper House,'
just returned from Canada. Black, M.L.0., found
Canada prosperous, and tells Australia to go- and ,do like-:
wise. He doesn’t suggest, puriously enough, that Aus-
tralia should do likewise by establishing high Protection,
by resolving to get its debt down to about one-third of
what it is now, by resolutely providing out of revenue a:
big sinking fund, and by doing everything, through Pro-
tection and bonuses, and other aids, to create local manu-
facturing industries that will enable us to do with less
imports. These things, which are all within our power,
do not seem to occur to Black, M.L.C. But he thinks
that we should imitate Canada in giving away,
our public lands gratis. The idea is worthy of a
M.L.O. Canada has so much land which is at [least
moderately capable of settlement that it is giving it
away. Australia has so little available that when a good
piece of soil is offered at a respectable price there are on
an average about 40 applicants. A vast amount rnore
land could certainly be made available by forcibly resum-
ing the big estates of the class to which the Tory M.L.C.
belongs, but Black, M.L.0., doesn’t seem to suggest that,:
His idea is apparently that Australia, which hasn’t,
enough good State land available to anything like meet
the demands of its own purchasers, should give the little
it has away for nothing t-o foreigners—because Canada is
doing so. It is a pity Mr. Black didn’t carry his imita-
tion a little further and make things perfect.' Canada is
giving away the lands of its centre, west, and north-west,
Australia wouldn’t seriously object to doing likewise. If
any rush of European immigrants will take up the
M‘Donnell Ranges, or the Great Victoria ,Desert, or the
great sandy wastes further north, Australia will, doubt-
less, let them go quite as cheaply as Canada is doing.
But Australia hasn't followed Canada’s example in adver-
tising that it will give away its far interior gratis to
farmers, simply beoause it doesn’t want to have the bones
of thousands of dead farmers on its mind! It recognises,
that circumstances alter cases. Some Ms.L.C. don’t seem
to recognise even that much. , : ' .
♦ : -;
Sydney Telegbaph lately came but again with its
old grey-haired howl on the subject of Federal
old age pensions. The atrocities of the Irvine
regime in Victoria having attracted, attention in
the Australian Parliament, the scared Telegraph
arose to point out that it was better that the pen-
sion matter should be left in the hands of the
State, because the Common wealth hasnomachinery
for distributing old age pensions, and it would
mean the creation of a large and.expensive depart-
ment ; and furthermore, the Commonwealth could
only “obtain the money required by raising four
times the amount in taxation.”-- The last item was
deliberate lie; even the Telegraph knows that
though the Federal Government can only retain
one-fourth of the tariff revenue, it can raise the
money required by direct taxation,, to which the
Braddon clause doesn’t apply. The statement
that the Australian Government has no machinery
for distributing the pensions was also a lie ;. it has
the whole post and telegraph system of the Com-
monwealth. Therefore the statement that a large
and expensive new department would be required
was a third lie.
♦
A pair sample of N.S.W. State politics was Mr.
E. C. V. Broughton’s speech on the financial
statement. The financial issue is absolutely the
most important to N-S.W. just now.;, that is
possibly why silly, useless members use it always
as an occasion to play the ineffable political goaf.
Some extracts from Mr. E. C. V. B. :
Last December I brought before the House the case of
Mr. Watson, who has been licensee of the Paragon. Hotel’
for 35 years. When the land on which the hotel stands wap
sold by the Crown manyyears ago, a certain promise was
made that his view of the water would not be interrupted.
One day I went with Mr. Watson to see the Prime Minis-
ter. The Prime Minister sent out a memorandum
requesting me to put jay. wishes in writing. But I said
I would not tolerate that sort of thing. Mr. Watson is-
more precious to me than any Prime Minister. ' Govern-
ments come and go, hut constituents remain for ever;
and I said that unless the Prime Minister was prepared
to receive Mr. Watson, I would move the adjournment of
the House. I have always found that threat very effec-
tive. The result was that the Prime Minister saw Mr.
Watson, and received us in a most gracious manner. But
we received no satisfaction from the Government, and
when the time came I voted against the Government in
the House to show my disapproval of their action. I
then went to Mr. Watson with Hansard, and I said to
him, “ There is no vaporing or blank cartridge about me.
I was logical, and I followed up my protest by my vote,
and if you had been King of England I could
not have done more for you.” The result was
that Mr. Watson, who was strongly opposed' to me
at the last election, became my supporter. .\. . I
was made a scapegoat, but, thank God, I have lived it
all down, and I am now in this position : that I can look
every man straight in the face, because I have done
everything a man possibly can do to vindicate his posi-
tion. After I had severed my connection with the
'Government, I found that my credit in the city had gone
The Peddlers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Sing a song like ancient Homer,
Song of genuine bardic fire
Let it tell of noble conflict,
Champing steeds and hero pyte.
Sing it, with a voice of rapture*
Till the hearers sing as well,
Till we catch a noble chorus, ✓
Like a thunder pealing o’er us
Till the chant of dauntless heroes rings like distant
ocean swell! ”
’Twas the band of little people, .
They who live by truck and trade,
Cried unto the casual minstrel
And he hearkened as they bade ;
And he took his lyre and smote it
In the face of all the throng,
And he smote it till he hushed them
Into silence, when he crushed them
With the fury and the laughter and the'loathing
of his song.
“ Sing a song (ye cry) of Homer !
Homer flung his ballad-peal
In the face of brawny warriors
Who had heard the clang of steel;
Not in alleys mean.and narrow
Did he chant his splendid lay,
But he sang to sturdy yeomen,
Gallant chiefs and brawny bowmen
On the hillsides, in the valleys, of the .Amland far
away.
“ What would ye with glorious Homer ?
Would ye deal him out a dole,
If he sang the things ye treasure
In your little peddling soul ?
Would ye pay him weekly wages
For his rnetred minstrel time? v
Would ye make a paltry proffer
Of your farthings—would ye offer
Of jwiir pence and smallest silver when ye heard
ihassong sublime ?
“ When he called the steeds to battle
Ye would dream of vending ware,
Ye would wander to your ledgers y‘ ' .
When he blew his battle blare ; -
Ye would bid him sing of profits
And of bullion by the ton,
And his song would be forgotten
While ye clavered all of cotton
And the doom of mighty Hector find you yawn-
ihg every one ! ”
And the little trading people 4,
Held their heads a moment so.
And they whispered soft together : -r
“He is crazy—let us go !
Let us back to mart and counter,
Let us set the trader’s gin,
Let our hearts be close and chary
Let us watch in manner wary,
And when strangers come to greet us—let us take
the strangers in ! ”
Q.
P. L.


“ With total Assets standing at £78|089,283j Thb Mutual Life Insurance Company
of New York occupies the premier place as the largest and strongest Life Office in the world."
THE MUTUAL
LIFE INSURANCE
Established 1843;
RICHARD A. McCURDY.
President.
COMPANY OF NEW YORK-
From its Organisation in 1843 to 31st December, 1902,
It has paid to living’members .. •
To beneficiaries of deceased members .. ..
Total paid to members, living and dead ..
Invested for present members.. ;
Total paid to and invested for its membere
Bonuses paid to policy-holders amount to ..
Contingent Guarantee Fund and Divisible Surplus
£37,496,649
55,726,749
£123,223,398
78,039,284
£201,312,682
£22,005,481
13,991,627
Total Profits to Members .... £35,997,108
The Payments made by The MuTtJAt Lira InsPRaSCE Company of New York to its Policy-holders are
fat in excess of - -
Copy of i
ENDOWMENT,
policies on select
; HEAD OFFICE FOE AUSTRALASIA—
iMUTUAL LIFE BUILDING, Martin Place and Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A •• Z. 0. RENNIE, General Manager and Attorney,
iiiubc oi any otner coinjjan^
Annual Report and particulars of Policies to meet every requirement, whether for LIFE,
INVESTMENT, or ANNUITY, may be obtained on application. Power to issue binding
lives and pay Claims immediately upon receipt of proofs at the
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount'
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny ” for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Rosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. F „ furlher addm,-
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFFICE-
-70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
NARANDERA
or YOUNG.
up. I was proposing to buy a property running into
some thousands of pounds, and I was told by a member
of one of the largest firms in the city, “ We are going to
lend you the money ; I do not think there is-any other
man.except yourself to whom we would lend it, because
you have been true to your word:”
It is worth while giving space to this silly bleat-
ing; as it shows two things—the sort of issues on
which State politics are now run in N.S.W., and
the sort of debates that the State Parliament now
engages in., ; , •
SUNDRY SHOWS.
• *
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Toreador.”
Lyceum..,.. .. “ Her Second Time on Earth."
Criterion. “ The Shaughraun."
Palace...... “Man to Man.”
Tivoli .................. Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty’s........ “ Monsieur Beaucaire."
Theatre R0ya1........ “ The World.”
Opera House ......... Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall.. ..... Ada Crossley, in “Elijah."
——
A Sydney Lyceum play, which includes a
bathroom scene, with the principal comedian in
the bath, makes out a prirhd facie case for favor-
able consideration. Not that the bath has any-
thing to do with the story ; so far as that goes,
Bert Bailey might have crawled up the chimney,
or gone down to Melbourne to back something for
the Caulfield, and “ Her Second Time on Earth ”
would have moved along to the same gory conclu-
sion. Unfortunately, when the author put the
comedian into the bath he just about exhausted
his stock of original ideas. Even the name, it
turns out, is a bit of a fraud. It isn’t anybody’s
second time on earth. It is all, in fact, about the
inopportune reappearance of Inman’s old wife just
as he has married a new sweetthing. The old wife,
having a husband or two on hand already, isn’t really
Inman’s wife ; but he doesn’t know that. Still,
it is about time Inman began to have his suspicions
about wives who turn up in this way ; they have
done it so often, and there hasn’t been a genuine
one in the whole crowd. Until he does find out
the truth, Inman, as usual, has a bad time, for
what particular mischief Miss Duggan can’t think
of, her friend Willard suggests. Most times
they dip pretty deeply into Inman’s purse ; this
time, however, they don’t—but that’s the other
barrel of the story. Captain G.P. Carey has been
away making a fortune in unspecified parts, and
is taking it home in his cabin ; and nobody knows
that,he has it. Inman’s beautiful first wife (who
isn’t his wife) happens to be on board, makes love
to the captain, womans out his secret (this verb
is usually misprinted “ worms”), drugs him, shoves
him overboard, thinks him dead, and gets away
with the fortune. But he isn’t dead; a passing
liner picks him up—mad. Now, by one of
those remarkable coincidences that occur
oftener at the Lyceum than anywhere
else in Australia, Inman’s second wife is the
daughter of the captain whom his first wife has
treated in this unladylike way. And that turns
out badly for the lady ; for the captain is naturally
taken to'Tnman and his daughter, and he sees the
lady as she hangs round to do more mischief; then
he recovers, and recognises her; so virtue and
Inman are again triumphant, and the curtain falls
on Miss Duggan swallowing poison and Willard
mortally wounded by a shot fired from the wings,
the proper gun, held by Miss Duggan, having
refused to go off.
* \ * * *
G. P. Carey, for the second time this
season, makes his part the most conspicuous
feature. The quiet of Carey’s madness Comes
as a blessed relief; and his pathetic but
futile efforts to remember things that he has
a sudden, fleeting idea he ought to remember
area striking part of an exceedingly well-preseuted
anff interesting character. The rest of the co.
just about as well as usual—perhaps a little
better, especially the cab-horse that draws Inman
toi h,is wedding. This horse, on the opening night,
slipped on the stage and fell under the cab; and
it lopked as though, the ceremony would have to
be hung up long: enough to allow Miss Duggan
and Willard,, wrho were i,n the neighborhood, to.
overtake thp contents of the vehicle; but matters
were, arranged. This part of the proceedings
(watched by one of the largest and most excited
audiences of : the season) will probably not be
repeated ; but the other parts will be continued
until further notice.
*• # * *
“ Man to Man,” as produced at Sydney
Palace by the Fitzmaurice Gill Co., must needs
suffer by comparison with previous representations
of the same piece on a much larger stage, and with
a co. which was one of the best of melodramatic
organisations. But the difficulties in placing
a piece of this character on a small stage are
mastered very well--the large “sensational ef-
fects” are crowded in without wearing the
crushed expression that might be expected, and
since the first night the co. has played
without a hitch, and its performance has shown
a great deal of merit. The prison scene and the
big railway disaster are especially well-managed,
and to crowd a railway disaster of such magni-
tude into so small a space and yet make it look a
real thing—not a toy train crumpled up in a band-
box—is something of an achievement. The comely
Miss Fitzmaurice Gill is not seen at her best as
Ethel Maythorne; the cares of management seem
to sit somewhat heavily on her and interfere with
her acting. A lady with a railway disaster on
her mind has something pretty serious to think
about. In the humorous-villainous part of Bill
Burkeley, Gus Neville is very successful; and
Albert Gran is effective at times as Philip Ormond,
though he shows a tendency to over-act in places
“ Man to Man ” has been received very cordially
so far.
*# * *
The reliable “It is Never Too Late To
Mend,” which Charles Reade wrote with the
object of exposing some of the brutalities of the
old prison system, was revived for Alfred Dam-
pier’s last week at Sydney Criterion. Both the
novel and the drama were written just at the time
when the first gold discoveries were being made
in Australia; and Tom Robinson (Dampier),
the man who is Mending, comes out to
Bathurst, or thereabouts, to live his new life.
Now, Reade knew a great deal about the gaols
of England, but he didn’t know much about the
goldfields of Australia; so when we find the re-
formed Dampier and the spotless young man,
Vivian Edwards, coolly striking a prospectors’
camp, and making the diggers unload all the gold
in their possession, we begin to have doubts
about the reformation, though the dramatist
apparently had no idea that that wasn’t
quite the usual way of doing things in
Australia. Also, the Australian diggers
who, having found gold, are disturbed by
Dampier and his mate, are armed, every man
of them, with bowie knives —and that wasn’t
quite Australian either. These reflections on the
manners of Australia are not Dampier’s fault,
though, and they are not Charles Holloway’s.
Dampier did his part thoroughly, playing with all
his old captivating ease and breeze ; while Hollo-
way mounted the piece admirably. The set
showing the creek where the gold discovery
was made was especially good. Several others
did better than usual—Miss Beatrice Holloway,
as the small boy-victim of the gaol Bystem (on
the whole, Miss Holloway is a better ragged boy
than anything else so far); likewise V. Edwards,
and chaplain Ashton King; while Miss Conroy
put in good work as she always does. This Satur-
day Charles Holloway himself makes his first
appearance for this season in “ The Shaughraun”—
another romantic play of which this paper seems
to have heard favorably before.
** * *
Fisk Jubilee Singers are having such good
audiences at their concerts that it looks as if they
would have a Saturday night lien on the Town
Hall for many weeks to come. “He Moves in
the Middle of the Air ” does not refer to an
aeronaut. It has a sacred significance and is a
melodious chorus in which the company takes
part. “Religion is a Fortune” is another sooth-
ing song. “Elijah” Dowie and others could
make affidavit as to its truth.
** * *
“Toreador,” at Her Majesty's, Sydney,
will run yet another two or three weeks. Some
seasonable racing gags are introduced by Lauri,
and Celia Ghiloni has got a new song: “That’s
What I Want to Know.” There is about as much
melody in the song as there is in the crowing of a
bantam, but the knowledge the lady seeks is of
an amusing and faintly blue nature. She “ wants
to know,” for one thing, how an attractive young
laundress can wear diamonds and keep a motor
car on the proceeds of the laundry. Personally
speaking, writer is quite sick of so much Sir
Archibald Slackitt. R. Roberts, who takes the
part of the drawlsome baronet, has a most agree-
able voice when he lifts it in song ; pity he can-
not sing some of the drivel he drawls. But as
there is so much talking in the piece it were well
that the talkers speak intelligibly. Pat Bathurst
and Beattie often drop into patter speech, or bite
their words to death, or smother ’em. For the
rest, the superb staging is as it was; Florence
Young’s singing of “My Toreador” is as full of
fire and fine notes as ever; and the Spanish dance,
with scarves, by four handsome girls, deserves
this rather belated mention.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli the return of Fuller and
Hallen —American sketch artists—does not serve
to, withdraw any attention from Marzella and her
wonderful birds. Pretty nearly all the attention
that the audience has about it is required for
Marzella and her heap of strange fowl. Some
new arrivals are promised at this theatre shortly
—including a female Sandow with the physique of
Magog. There is a disappointed impression
abroad that, for obvious reasons, her display of
muscle will not be as complete as was Sandow’s.
** * *
“ The World,” staged for twelve nights, is
far from being Bland Holt’s most effective produc-
tion of that old-established melodrama, but it will
suffice to fill time whilst a perfectly new show is in
the throes of preparation. There are a good many
stirring occurrences in “The World,” and the
excitement begins early, which is better than
having the first act padded with a mild birthday
party, or a prolonged love scene in the vicinity of
a “ dear old home.” Nobody has a dear old home,
neither does Baker play the hero. Albert Norman
is the hero for a change, and Holt is the sham-
nosed Mossy who plants an infernal machine on
the ship which bears most of the other principal
characters from Capetown to England. When the
infernal machine has blown them on to a raft in
mid-ocean, it happens that a casual parent with
many diamonds concealed about his person confides
a heap of jewels and a long-lost daughter to the
care of Albert aforesaid. Then the poor old
gentleman dies of thirst, and the survivors get
mixed up in London. A nice girl from the raft is
engaged to marry Albert’s wicked brother,
whereas the brother is already married to the
rather bad girl who has inherited the diamonds
Another man from the raft covets those diamonds,
also the bad brother and Bland Holt are anxious
to remove Albert the Good. The first result of
these complications is the murder of a villain by
mistake; secondly Albert is confined in a lunatic
asylum where the keepers lure him on to deeds
of violence; thirdly, the bad brother falls down
the lift hole at a hotel; and, finally, the rather
bad girl dies in a ball dress. Her decease seems
quite unnecessary, but it leaves her at liberty to
join her late husband in some place beginning
with H. Bland Holt is likewise dead, or within
easy distance of the gallows, when the curtain
falls; so, take it altogether, “ The World ” is very
strong in retributive justice. Miss Harrie Ireland,
as the penitent adventuress, puts a reasonable
amount of earnestness into her work. Miss
Brightie Smith plays a trim-built youth in an
almost convincing manner, and Brown, who offers
a murderous suggestion to the polite villain, is an
impressive solicitor. Bland Holt is a popular
Mo3sy Jewell, as before, though he doesn’t seem
to make as much of the part. The other parts
are not very well played, Albert Norman being a
conspicuously unsuccessful hero on account of his
unnatural voice and weird, peculiar grin. Mrs.
Holt and Walter Baker are standing out of the
proceedings.
* * * *
Miss Nellie Stewart, who is reputed to
have gathered in a lot of money backing that
namesake of hers who won the Caulfield Cup,
returns.to Melbourne Princess to play a brief and
sudden season of “Sweet Nell ” during Melbourne
Cup week. With this added to the other attrac-
tions, and Bent’s train to take one to the scene, it
is difficult to see what more even the most grasp-
ing Cupite could expect.
* * * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.), the light and
garish romantic comedy of “ Monsieur Beaucaire”
draws large audiences and pleases most people.
Silk clothes don’t make charming stories from a
mere man’s point of view, but a costume play
which positively reeks of the best Bath society in
the year 1735 is calculated to interest every woman
who has ever fought for refreshments at a
Gov’ment House ball, or devoured a love story in
the Family Herald. And the fact that it pre-
sents the best dressed member of the cast as
an irresistible Royal Highness is a matter for
rejoicing. “ Beaucaire ” is commonly said to be
a “ sweet ” play. According to an advertisement
quoted from the local evening journal it is “a 3
sweet as the scent of new-mown hay.” All the
characters are powdered, patched and heavily
perfumed, the men toy with lace-edged hand-
kerchiefs and walk through life as though it were
a minuet, and the sole subject of discussion
throughout the whole play is a supposed barber
who is thought to have contaminated the Bath
pump-room with his low-born presence. This is
the comedy that smells of new-mown hay 1 The
critic who detected rural fragrance in the
neighborhood of Beau Nash’s citadel would be
capable of gathering buttercups and daisies in
Zaza’s dressing-room. The performance at Her
Majesty’s has gained a little polish and “finish ”
since the first night, but it still leaves a lot
of better acting—which in this case mostly means
better airs, graces and deportment; especially
Deportment to be desired. The , minuet
is ill-done, and the Major, whose story excites the
ladies to strew red roses for Beaucaire to walk
upon, is not at all elegant about the legs. Eardley
Turner, as Beau Nash, hardly realises one’s con-
ception of a historical master of frills and cere-
monies, yet he and the young man who leads the
“ comic relief ” are much more at ease than the
other minor characters. The Duke of Winterset
is an ineffective card-sharper, and Julius Knight,
intelligent, painstaking, and handsome enough,
plays the unparalleled French hero with a rather
heavy English touch. Miss Maud Jeffries makes
the mistake of trying to get too much sympathy
for her character, which is only the character of a
supercilious Bath beauty deeply in love with her-
self, like the Lady of Lyons.
* * # *
Ada Crossley in Oratorio is due at Mel-
bourne Town Hall on Saturday, 24th. Melbourne
Philharmonic Society has arranged with manager
Williamson to revive its “Elijah” for this one
special occasion, before the songstress sails away
to Maoriland. Peterkin, in the capacity of the
Prophet, is to support Miss Crossley, and the
name of the audience will be Overflowing.
iff * * *
Fitzgeralds’ Circus, opening on Caulfield
Cup night, had a distinctly horsey audience. The
heroine of the night was Mdlle. Onra, piquant
poseuse of the silver wire, whose “ turn ’’ goes as it
went in Sydney. Mam’zelle trips in, dressed as if
for a fete, in pale-green muslin. The roses wreath-
ing Mam’zelle’s rustic hat are pink; her toy parasol
is parrot-blue. These alien colors, so far from
quarrelling, kiss one another, as it were, for
toilette and wearer are of the Frenchiest.
The vision floats on to the wire—train,
parasol, and all—posing most charmingly, and
in-ofessing to be shy. The vision is about to
undress on the silver wire. The sunshade is
tossed to an attendant; the hat follows. Off
comes the muslin gown, revealing a beautiful
under-bodice and a petticoat, blue like the para-
sol. The small, white vest is discarded, the blue
skirt should fly after it, but first night the run-
ningstring jibbed; and the jupon prudishly clung
to its owner. Circus-men, with bungling fingers,
pawed sheepishly at the tape-ends, but without
avail. Mam’zelle, in despair, ran to the end
of the wire, where she could lean against
an upright and’ wrestle with the too Puritanic
tie-lace—undress herself by force, so to speak,
At last, Beauty stood revealed in pink tights,
and, after all the exciting suggestiveness, the dis-
robed one was clothed as fully as most circus
fairies are when they start work. Mam’zelle is a
pretty woman, with ankles and wrists of surpris-
ing slimness in comparison with her otherdom.
Sensationalists, who take their pleasure thrill-
fully, are well catered for by the Fitzgeralds. A
suspenseful act is supplied by the “Flying
Meteors,” one of whom, blindfolded, and with his
head tied up in a bag, leaps from a swinging bar,
aloft, hangs by his mate’s hands, and swoops back
unseeifigly to the bar he started from. Gee-gee
Newhaven, who, at the Bendigo show (15/10/03),
made his record jump of 6ft. llin., continues
to shine as an Excelsior bounder. Manzoni’s
trick-dogs, Barn a to, the educated donkey, Gil-
leno, a musical joker, the Tylers, La Belle Rose,
and the clown that never dieth keep the ball roll-
ing. Elephant Lizzie shows as a more accom-
plished performer every time she visits Mel-
bourne, but, like the rest of her sex, her temper
sharpens along with her wits, and she grows more
and more an identity to be respected rather than
loved. Last time she eloped (in Gippsland, just
t’other day) she met a man and paused in her
flight to chastise him. The man hopped through
a fence and congratulated himself that the virago
was too fat to follow, whereupon she began to tear
down the barrier. But the moment Lizzie saw
her keeper, Zapf, coming she dropped her eyelids
and sighed heavily, and began to pose as a lonely,
home-sick, strayed-lamb kind of elephant.
** * *
For the alleged sake of charity, two crowds
of hardy amateurs have been enjoying themselves
at Melbourne Princess’s. “Bob Roy,” by the
Caledonian Society, was not a shocking maltreat-
ment of the queer old musical play. Bailie
Nicol Jarvie has, in his time, been many a worse
amateur than J. T. Pielcen, who exclaimed “Ma
conscience! ” (which is a diverting Scottish re-
mark) on the two nights when John MTntyre
didn’t star in his stead. The bold Macgregor’s
middle-aged wife was evidently a younger lady
than the damsel of the piece, and the old man who
fell out of bed made some palpable preparations
for the unexpected event; but any flaws in the
performance were nothing to laugh at. The
present historian has always regarded “Rob
Roy ” as a serious play when acted by profes-
sionals, and no feeling person could contemplate
last week’s ceremony with a dry eye.
* * * *
On Saturday the “Arion" Operatic
Society applied itself to a moderately tuneful
exposition of “The Mikado,” and made steady
improvement as the evening wore away. One
expects the chorus to be a redeeming feature of
an amateur opera co., but the volume of sound on
Saturday was an inferior volume with ragged
edges. Also the principal men, who have been
creditable amateurs on sundry bygone occasions,
were less creditable this time, especially in the
first act. They did some things well and other
things horribly, and where they were chiefly to
blame was in allowing their less experienced
colleague, Katisha, to appear on the stage with
the facial make-up of a spectral rag-doll. The
next band of amateurs will appear on Saturday,
with Purves, K.C., as interlocutor.
m * *
A low-comedy Biograph, plain and colored,
is the newest “turn ” at Melbourne Opera,House.
Fields has introduced further variations into his
juggles, and the decorative soprano now sings
about her Honey, and the Lentons circulate their
felt hats as usual. Meanwhile the Female Sandow
and other strangers are drawing near, and an
expectant populace is advised to watch the advt.
closely.
*# * *
With the Adelaide Royal and Tivoli both
olpsed (for the first time on record), music has
taken the chance left it by the drama, all sorts of
oratorios and band and other concerts rushing into
the gap with great vigor. A fine band from
Boulder city moves into the Royal for one evening,
and Ada Crossley had record booking, even at
10s., for her two appearances at the Town Hall.
Also, there has been the annual show of S.A.
Photographic Society to fall back upon. The
society hangs 300 exhibits from all parts of the
world. Championship and gold medal again goes
to David Blount, of London, with a different pose
of the same small girl as last year. (These medal-
winning exhibits become the property of the
society.) The process is gum-bichromate. Styant
Browne, of Tasmania, wins the open landscape
class, and not a single local exhibitor has been
successful in any “ open ” class. A Melbourne
man shows a nude lady standing sideways under a
blossoming plum-tree. Her figure has caused much
discussion, and is the subject of a mildly con-
demnatory sub-leader in the Register. The nude
lady out in the open air is always regarded with a
certain amount of gloom in Adelaide.
The Wild Cat Column.
Westralia has had more surpluses than any
other State during the past 10 years ; and yet it has little
reason to be satisfied with its position. Its balance-sheets
have shown the following results :
Revenue. Expenditure.
1894 .. .. £681,246 £656,357 Surplus £24,889
1895 .. .. 1,125,941 936,729 „ 189,212
1896 .. .. 1,858,695 1,823,863 „ 34,832
1897 .. '.. 2,842,751 2,839,453 „ 3,298
1898 .. .. 2,754,747 3,256,912 Deficit 502,165
1899 .. .. 2,478,811 2,539,358 „ 60,547
1900 .. .. 2,875,396 2,615,675 Surplus 259,721
1901 .; .. 2,964,121 3,051,331 Deficit 87,210
1902 .. .. 3,354,123 3,151,427 Surplus 202,696
1903 .. .. 3,630,238 3,521,763 „ ' 108,475
The surpluses, it is true, totalled £823,123, while the
deficits total only £649,922, leaving a net surplus of
£173,201. The argument which is used to support a
borrowing policy is that the loans are necessary in order
to develop the resources of the country, the presumption
being that the country, when developed, will go on
yielding wealth indefinitely. But that argument, though
it might apply to an agricultural district, certainly
doesn’t apply to a mining field; for the more gold you
take out of a field the less there remains to be taken out.
Moreover, the early profits of a mining field are almost
invariably the greatest; the exceptions to the rule
are so few that they are not worth mentioning; and,
anyhow, the Westralian goldfields are not among them.
The past 10 years have thus seen the cream
skimmed from the goldfields; no less than £41,338,707
worth of gold was exported between July Ist, 1894, and
June 30th, 1903. By that much was the natural wealth
of the country reduced. Moreover, nearly the whole of
the profit derived from skimming the cream was sent out
of the country. Through the absence'of local industries,
even the money spent in equipping the mines and in
feeding and clothing the miners for the most part
vanished. Avery large amount of the surplus earnings of
the miners was also sent out of the State. Altogether, it is
hardly possible to conceive of circumstances under which
a State should have more strongly insisted upon its works
being paid for out of current revenue. Instead, however,
of doing this it has increased its net indebtedness (after
allowing for the sinking fund accumulated) by £11,693,421.
The State let the cream go, and now the bill will have to
be paid out of the skim-milk.
The State that could only just pay its wav even


m
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.—Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but,an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Bails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS—Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING.
S3T Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLABTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orbnstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (.Tasmania).
The Pioneer Tin Mining Coy., of Bradshaw’s
Greek, Tasmania, which has had a most successful
career, has decided to increase its plant, and has
placed an order for a very large and powerful suction
dredge and appliances, with the Austral Otis Engineering
Company, South Melbourne, who built their original
plant. The new dredge will be fitted with a 15" sand -
pump, and a compound condensing vertical engine of
450 horse power, and two boilers of the marine type, for
a working pressure of 1601bs to the square inch. The
pontoon to carry this plant will be 60ft. x 50ft. by a depth '
of 5ft. The plant will be capable of raising 100 cubic ;
yards of tin drift per hour to a height of 80 feet into ■
sluice boxes. The new plant is very similar to the older
one but contains improvements in detail suggested by
the two years experience of the older plant. The latter
has done excellent and continuous service since its first
start. The average cost of raising tin drift to a height
of 70ft. during tne period above mentioned, including
cost of all repairs and renewals, has been less than 3d.
per cubic yard.*
• * * *
The Policy Holder (Manchester)— 29th July
1903—writes of The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society’s latest report:—“Turning to the report which
has ijust been issued we find all the elements there
which are necessary to make up a remarkably good
account.”*
• * • *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
• • * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in ah
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
* * * «
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-at., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * • *
With a constant sensibility of l/3000th. grain,
assayers will welcome the “Galopin'’ Assay Balance
(price, with weights, £21.) “It is all you claim for it,”
writes a customer to de Beer, Silberberg and Co., of
Gasoline furnace fame, Bourke-street, Melbourne.*
• • • *
H. Brandon Skertohly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * ■ * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * •
If you wanb to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Oastlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * »
E. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade.
Marks registered throughout the world.*
• • • •
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who'
hope to get a good price for their wool. E„ Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stoeks.*
* • • •
Doyle and Finney, Kanowna (W.A;), have
cleaned up another 12 tons from their Red Hill lease for
164oz. This brings up the total yield for the past twelve
months to 3178oz., valued at £11,500, from 184 tons of
stone. Doyle, the best-known man on the fields, has
returned from Europe after a six months’ trip, and
arrived just in time to welcome the result of the latest
crushing.
y
SUN
HIGHEST
quauty
mm
BRAND
SOLD
EVERYWHERE.
SCHWEPPES DRY GINCER ALE
A record established by no other Mineral Water Company in the World.
SCHWEPPES Mineral
Waters have held the
Royal Warrant contin-
uously since 1834.
to even Totl° Slngf lts ? ream can ’* He seriously expected
unless ;e kee P square when the skim-milk period comes,
nerind h QC erg . oe ® a & reat change ; and the skim-milk
therefore nne me t 0 .^ esfcralia ahea d of the change. It is
defieit- sur P nsln ff to see the State on the way to a
soeeeh Vw U ;T er „ Gard iner, who made his Budget
£!si9 h w? Ctobe - r 6 ’ cerfcainl y estimates a surplus of
<?wi n Hie he .arrives at that conclusion hy the political
revenue °LH ri ngmg recent surpluses into this year’s
revenue. The real position is
Estimated Revenue .. .. £3,613,200
Estimated Expenditure .. .. 3,843,347
Estimated Deficit .. .. £230,147
And the Westralian Treasurer doesn’t propose to do any*
Ho avert the threatened deficit. This, then, is
lame ntable situation : A State, whose mines are
expected to pay to the owners (almost all
£2,000,000 in dividends, and out of which
,f, r worth of gold will be dug and exported,
*?e unable to pay its way. Though over £35 worth
Wl *‘ He raised for every man, woman, and child in
ok!! c 9 untr y> and though £9 per head will be paid to the
absentee owner, the State will allow itself to go to the
Daa to the extent of over £1 per head. That sort of
out alone Sn Hke having sense enough to be trusted
* », • *
Even if Westralia gets no worse a deficit than
.treasurer Gardiner foretells (so far, it looks as though
tiardmer s estimate will easily be almost doubled), its
record will not be far from the worst in Australian
history. At £230,147 its deficit would be equal to
us. 7d. per head of the population as at the commence-
", of the financial year. N.S. Wales reached its
j Heights when, in 1886, it managed to accumulate
a deficit of £1,484,462, being at the rate of £llos. 3d. per
bead. Victoria’s worst, or thereabouts, was in 1890, when
the gay boomsters let the State drift £1,126,578 to the
bad, besides adding 2£ millions to the ordinary debt ;-the
drift was equal to about 19s. lOd. per head. Queensland
was fruilty of £528,189 in 1901, or £1 os. 7d. per head, and
of £494,299 in 1890, which was equal to £1 ss. 2d. per
head. S. Australia has not done anything famous in this
way; while Tasmania managed £132,038 in 1892—equal
H® I'®- 6d. per head. Thus Westralia’s Treasurer quite
cheerfully looks forward to his State putting up very
nearly the worst Australian record. And He does it in
spite of the fact that Australia is supposed to have
learned a lesson, and in spite of professions that it Has
resolved for the future to go financially straight.
Honestly, just how much of the lesson has Australia
learned, and has it even seriously thought yet of going
straight ?
* * * *
N.S.W. State Savings Bank pays interest on
deposits only up to £200; but Treasurer Waddell has
casually dropped before the Assembly a proposal to raise
the limit to £SOO for ordinary depositors and to abolish
the limit altogether for friendly societies. At the same
time he even more casually mentioned that an agreement
had been made with the Citizens Life Cos. (chairman,
John See) for the lease of a building to be erected opposite
the Citizens’ office. Perhaps if it hadn’t been for the
latter part of the arrangement the Bill would not have
had a bad reception. But it came out that what had
been agreed with the co. was that the latter should put up
a building to cost £27,000, and charge £2OOO a year for 16
years, the State to then have the right to purchase build-
ing and land (value of land not quite certain) at £54,000.
That means, boiled down, tfiat the State borrows
£54,000 from the co. for 16 years at about 4£ per cent.
The Government cannot do any more straight-out bor-
rowing except on disastrous terms ; yet, so saturated is it
with Owe’Sullivanism, that it must Owe’Sullivani3e some-
how ; and when it can’t borrow in an ordinary way, it
must invent new ways of borrowing. And it doesn’t im-
prove the smell of the thing that the new style of borrow-
ing begins with a co. whose most prominent director is
also head of the Government.
So the mixing up of the Citizens’ with the busi-
ness leads to a close inquiry as to what the new Savings
Bank Bill itself is stuffed with. On the face of it, any
measure to make the Savings Bank more like what a
State Bank should be would commend itself; and a Bill
authorising it to accept and pay for deposits of over £2OO
ought to be good. But the Bill stops right there. It
doesn’t propose that the Savings Bank shall take over the
work of the State Advances to Settlers Board, and put it
on a proper footing. It doesn’t propose to make it free
of political control, as it must be —so free of political con-
trol that if it preferred, for the good business reason that
they yielded a better return, to buy the bonds of Victoria
or Maoriland instead of those of N.S. Wales, it should be
at perfect liberty to do so. It proposes, in fact, nothing
more than that money shall be encouraged to flow into
the Savings Bank ; and, as it doesn’t propose new ways
for it to flow out, the only possible presumption is that it
is intended to flow out in Owe’Sullivanism, because the
Government has command of all the bank’s unused
balances. Therefore this, too, becomes a mere round-
about way of State borrowing—another way of prolonging
the drunk even after the regular liquor-sellers have
declined to serve out any more poison. And the proceed-
ing is more odious than it would otherwise be because it
trails the good, democratic idea of a State Bank in the
gutter; it suggests nothing so much as the man who,
having pawned every stick of furniture, continues his
orgy Hy rushing his daughter’s charms into the market
place. That looks about as low as any Government can
get to ; but there is no telling—the present N.S.W.
Cabinet is a Government of great resource.
* * * *
A George Turner, jun., trained in the old man’s
office, might have delivered Queensland Treasurer Kid-
ston’s Budget speech. The Morgan-Browne Government
came in at the end of September ; and Kid3ton at once
set to work to measure up ex-Treasurer Crib H’s estimates
on the basis of the three months’ results. Cribb’s idea of
things was :
Estimated Revenue .. .. .. £3,680,000
Estimated Expenditure .. .. 3,702,144
Estimated Deficit £22,144
He reckoned to get £895,000 from the Commonwealth,
while Commonwealth Treasurer Turner calculated only
£791,090 —or £104,000 less. Kidston wrote to George
Turner, asking him whether, after the three months’ ex-
perience, he could not hold out hope of something Hetter
for Queensland ; and Turner replied that He couldn’t.
Kidston therefore followed Turner’s safe lead, and
reduced the estimate to £791,000 ; then revised tHe other
figures in the light of the quarter’s experience ; dealt with
the expenditure returns in the same way ; and finally pro-
duced this :
Estimated Revenue £3,495,000
Estimated Expenditure (on the basis
of Ist quarter) 3,687,476
Estimated Defieit .. .. £192,476
The deficit estimated by the Philp Treasurer meant only
something more added to the debt; the deficit shown by
Kidston means, he says, one of two things—more taxation
or less expenditure. The difference represents the
beginning of the whole difference between honest finance
and the other sort. More taxation or less expenditure,
Kidston says ; and the House says it must not He more
taxation. Queensland certainly does already pay con-
siderably more per head than any other State in the
Commonwealth except Westralia, whose circumstances
are exceptional ; in fact, Queensland was paying £3
Is. Bd. as against the £2 16s. lOd. of N.S. Wales, the next
highest, even before the poll-tax was put on. Still, this
can’t be helped ; if a State will have the Biggest Debt on
Earth, sunk in things that don’t yield anything or in rail-
ways that yield little more than half the interest, it must
pay for the honor. (So far this year the interest has
sucked up 51 per cent, of the total revenue received 1)
Blocked, then, from wiping out the deficit by
taxation, the Coalition has to rely on reduced ex-
penditure ; and how it is going to _ reduce it
enough it has not yet quite decided. It is a tough
problem—tougher than it looks, because the savings
can’t be made out of the whole £3,687,476. No less than
£1,550,000 has to be paid to Bull-Cohen as interest; and,
whoever else has to be pinched, Bull-Cohen must be paid.
Further, Queensland last year spent £1,022,405 of loan
moneys, which was much less than usual; for years it
has paid out of loans for many services which ought to
have been paid for out of revenue ; and as the Coalition
does not intend to borrow anything—does not at present
even intend to try and place the unsold portion of the
last loan authorised—it will have to pay out of revenue
for things which its predecessors paid for out of borrow-
ings. Truly, the loan policy of the past has left the
honest financier with a hard row to hoe. Yet it must be
hoed. The only alternative is further drift; and that can
mean one, and only one, thing—ultimate repudiation.
• * * «
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne):
Added to Re-
Profits Dividends. Reserves, serves
Mar., 1897 £3398 3 p.c. = £2250 £ll4B £ll4B
Sept., 1897 3626 3 „ „ 2260 1375 2523
Mar., 1898 3865 3 „ „ 2250 1615 4138
Sept., 1898 4088 3 „ „ 2250 1838 6976
Mar., 1899 4315 3 „ „ 2250 2065 8041
Sept., 1899 4624 3 „ „ 2250 2374 10,415
Mar., 1900 6843 4 „ „ 3000 2843 13,258
Sept , 1900 6863 4 „ ~ 8000 2863 16,121
Mar., 1901 6488 6 „ ~ 8760 2738 18,859
Sept., 1901 6700 6 „ „ 3750 2950 21,809
Mar., 1902 7061 6 „ „ 3760 3311 25,120
Sept., 1902 7095 6 ~ ~ 3750 3345 28,465
Mar., 1903 7880 6 „ „ 3760 3630 32,095
Sept., 1903 6819 6 „ „ 4500 2319 34,414
This resalt breaks the continuous upward movement of
profits; yet, if it hadn’t been for the income tax (£625)
there would have been no break even now. The share-
holders’ funds as at the commencement of the half-year
were £182,095 (£150,000 capital and £32,095 reserves), on
which the profit was equal to £7 9s. 9d. per cent, per
annum. This compares with recent earnings in this way :
Sept,, 1900 .. £7 6 7 p.c. Sept., 1902 ..£8 2 1 p.c.
Mar., 1901 .. 716 3 „ Mar., 1903 .. 8 5 6 „
Sept., 1901.. 718 9 „ Sept., 1903 .. 7 9 9 „
Mar., 1902 .. 8 4 5 „
This doesn’t look as well as it might; hut still the new
expense above referred to must be remembered ; without
that the figures would have been £8 3s. 6d. The position
compares further with that disclosed 12 months back
Sept., 1902 Sept., 1903 Increase
Note Circulation .. .. £5,940 £B,IOO £2,160
Bills in Circulation .. 30,628 32,809 2,181
Deposits 612,779 705,472 92,693
Advances 527,775 633,451 5,876
Public Securities held .. 96,195 133,200 38,005
Bank Premises and other
real estate .. .. 19,817 75,911 56,094
All Liquid Assets .. .. 283,870 326,290 42,420
Decrease
Profits 7,095 6,819 £276
The interest-bearing deposits have increased by £111,821
in the year, and the advances by only £5676. Against
that, however, has to be set the increase in public
securities and the new banking premises, which cost over
£54,000. The Jiquid asset? are equal to 43 per cent, of the
total liabilities to the public—a Higher average than
usual.
• * * •
Victorian Premier Irvine, who has just annexed
Turner's sinking fund, assured the Assembly that Tren-
with’s sneer at his own sinking fund was quite out of
place; “no Treasurer would he guilty of such repudia-
tion ”as would be involved in the stealing of it. It seems
that a great deal depends on whether Victoria has the ill-
luck to run against any more Irvines.
* » * *
The Launceston Gas Cos. (Tasmania); —
Net Dividend and Added to Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
June, 1899.. £1320 4 per cent. = £IOSO £270 £4960
Dec., 1899.. 1863 4 „ „ 1050 313 5273
June, 1900.. 1203 4 „ „ 1050 153 5426
Dec., 1900.. 1252 4 „ „ 1050 202 5628
June, 1901.. 984 4 „ „ 1050 5562
Dec., 1901.. 1159 4 „ „ 1050 109 5671
June, 1902.. 1147 4 „ ~ 1050 97 5768
Dec., 1902.. 1111 4 „ „ 1050 61 5829
June, 1903.. 1328 4 „ „ 1050 278 6107
The virtues of the incandescent light have, it seems, now
penetrated even to Launceston, and the result is an extra
demand on the co.’s supplies, which shows itself in the
half-year’s profit. The co.’s balance-sheet, by the way, is
a bit of a curiosity. The document winds up with
“E. and 0.E.” Apparently they don’t take any unneces-
sary risks down in Tasmania.
* * * *
Investor: No market for A.B.H. Consols for
months past. They are not an investment; they are a
very long-shot speculation Investor (another of them
—Australia is full of investors, especially this time of
year) : Doesn’t follow because Bewick, Moreing show
reduced costs that shareholders should be happy. You
can sometimes “ save ” 15s. in wages, etc., by wasting 20s.
in metal E.P. : Solid.
* * * *
That great, noble, robust, upstanding thing,
Private Enterprise, is at it again. A while ago a syndi-
cate that said it had any amount of money and energy at
command obtained authority from Queensland Parlia-
ment to build a railway from Normanton to Cloncurry.
It, of course, didn’t build a mile of railway; it was the
Adelaide Tramway syndicate and the Tasmanian Great
Western Railway syndicate over again. It now proposes
that it should build the line with borrowed money— the
State guaranteeing the interest ; in other words, that the
State shall stand the loss when there is one, and the
syndicate shall get the profit when there is one. And
there is quite a hostile feeling in the lair of Capital
because the Morgan-Browne Ministry declines to enter-
tain this impudent demand for State interference with
Private Enterprise.
♦ * * •
The Langridge Mutual Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne) :
Profits. Dividends. W s ten toße*
Sept., serves. •Keserves-
-1893.. £5149 Nil £5149 £21,269
1894.. 3378 Nil £55 3323 24,592
1895.. 3046 Nil 2861 185 24,777
1896.. 1917 Nil 78 1839 26,616
1897.. 2254 Nil 882 1372 27,988
1898.. 2472 Nil 2472 30,460
1899.. 2768 2 p.c. = £1682 545 541 31,001
1900.. 2918 2£ „ „ 2024 283 611 31,612
1901.. 3149 3 „ „ 2382 1924 30,455
1902.. 3962 3i „ „ 2703 2729 28,985
1903.. 3981 3| „ „ 2665 853 463 29,448
The reserves now consist of £24,126 contingent reserve,
£3OOO reserve fund (anew creation, to which it is proposed
to add steadily), and the balance undivided profit. The
contingent fund is held specially against property, in the
realisation of which there may be a loss. There is very
little to show how this realisation is panning out, because
until 12 months ago present value of loans and book value
of foreclosed properties were bunched into one item. In
the past 12 months, however, properties having a book
value of £2926 have been realised, while the contingency
fund has been reduced by £853 ; hut it is not certain that
the whole of this was loss on the transactions. As, how-
ever, the total book value of foreclosed properties is now
down to £65,931, a contingent fund of £24,126, which
would allow of a depreciation of 7s. in the £, should be
ample. It is further in favor of the Langridge that it is
working almost exclusively on its own capital, on which
its year’s earnings have been equal to a highly respectable
£5 4s. per cent. The only disquieting feature is that the
directors excuse themselves for only paying 3J per cent,
again. Directors of a co. with a capital of about £77,000,
and reserves which probably don’t amount to more than
£6OOO, need not excuse themselves for not paying more
than £3 10s. out of £5 4s. ; but they would have to excuse
themselves very hard if they paid a cent more.
* * * *
“V.”: During the present session of M.L.
Parliament, 84 petitions were presented, asking that the
Bank of New Zealand be taken over bodiiv by the Govern-
ment and turned into a State hank. The Public Petitions
Committee, after brooding on the subject for a while,
reported suddenly, t’other dajq that it was unable to
recommend the absolute taking over of the bank, but
suggested that whatever State support is granted at the
end of the present arrangement should take the form of a
partnership, the State joining as chief shareholder, and
taking a proportionate control of the management of the
institution. This is the system on which the Bank of
Norway is run, and it has proved very successful in that
cold country.
* * • *
The Castlemaine Brewery and Wood Bros,
and Cos. (Newcastle, N.S.W.) ;
Written
off (de- Added Nominal
precia- to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. lion), serves, serves.
1900 - - - £41,890
1901 £13,093 4 p.c. = £IO,OOO £3OOO £93 41,983
1902 13,185 4„ „ 10,000 3000 185 42,168
1903 13,080 4~ ~ 10,000 3000 80 42,248
The paid capital is £250,000, on which, combined with the
reserves as at the commencement of the year, the profit,
before the writings-off for depreciation, was equal to .just
under a very moderate 44 per cent. The principal item
in the balance-sheet is “ properties, buildings, machinery,
plant, goodwill, &c., £213,938”; and, by reason of the
inclusion of this goodwill paper item, the reserves are
described above as nominal. Further, the item (the
amount of which is not disclosed) is not being written
off ; all the writings-off are directed to machinery and
freehold property. To go on year after year including
goodwill as an asset is bad enough ;to bunch it with
other items is worse still, and the habit should be sup-
pressed. The co. is still working on a heavy overdraft
(£39,230), together with £10,643 of deposits; but the
amount is not increasing very rapidly. Twelve months
ago the net indebtedness on these accounts was £39,298 ;
on September 30th of this year it was £43,235, but the
increase is all represented by cash on deposit.
* * * *
Silver has moved steadily up to 2s. 4d.; last
year’s average was a fraction under 2s. ; even in the early
part of this year it was down to Is. 9d. and one-sixteenth.
Threepence per oz. means, on the Broken Hill Prop.’s
present output, about £28,000 per half-year to that com-
pany alone. The improvement is probably due to an
increased demand from India, the Straits, and China, but
whether it is likely to be permanent it is impossible to
say. The market is likely to be a little better than it has
been during the last year or two; but there is no pro-
spect of any substantial rise.
* * * ♦
Broken Hill Prop, can do remarkable things
when it tries. In the last four weeks an effort was made
to wipe out the shortage in the returns due to the July-
August water famine, and the result was an out-turn of
5090 tons of lead and 366,1160 z. of silver—at the rate of
66,000 tons of lead a year, equal to about one-seventh of
the whole world’s production.
♦ * * *
The Sydney promoter of what London Critic
calls “an obvious wild cat ”is issuing with the
prospectus an open letter, purporting to be signed
“ John See, Premier and Colonial Secretary of the
State of New South Wales in the Commonwealth
of Australia,” and running that the bearer “ con-
templates visiting Great Britain on business matters,
and it will be regarded as a favor by my Government if
any attention or information can be afforded him which
might assist in accomplishing the object he has in
view.” Did Premier See, if he wrote that letter,
find out what the traveller’s “ object ” was ?If
he didn’t, how could he say that the Government of
the State would regard it as a favor for persons to
assist in accomplishing it. London Critic refers to some-
one who is co-operating with the visitor as “ a notorious
individual,” and adds that the fact that the letter is being
used by this man “to inveigle unsophisticated British in-
vestors into what is obviously a wild-cat scheme should
make Premier See a little more careful.”
» * * *
Another of the rare finds of opal which run
into thousands has been made by a small co-operative
party working on the English company’s blocks at White
Cliffs (N.S.W.). The blocks are now worked on pay-
ment of a small monthly fee, so the hopeless co., which
has not got within coo-ee of a dividend for years, makes
nothing directly out of such hauls.
• * * ,
J. B. Jaquet has been appointed Chief
Inspector of Mines in N.S.W. in succession to W. H. J.
Slee ; and the appointment is likely to cause ill-feeling.
For one thing, Jaquet has previously had no experience
in this branch, and the fact that men who have had years
of experience in it have been passed over isn’t likely to
add to the popularity of the service. The Department
has had great difficulty hitherto in retaining its best men ;
two of the seniors lately went out—a mining company
took one of them at double the salary the State
paid him. In future, as a result of this blocking
of promotion, the Department is less likely than
ever to retain its best men, and mining accidents
will probably increase in consequence. For another
thing, the only mining the new Chief Inspector of Mines
has ever done was for 12 months as a cadet in Cornwall—
presumably the 12 months which it is necessary for a
student to put in in order to get a London School of
Mines’ diploma. It is of very great importance that
the Chief Inspector should have the confidence of both
managers and miners, and 12 months’ service in a Cor-
nish mine as a student-cadet isn’t at all likely to give it.
Asa geological surveyor Jaquet has done very good work,
and there is much work of the same kind still waiting for
him to do. To take him from that and pub him on the
other job is like taking a good chemist and putting him
in charge of aP. and O. liner because he knows the com-
ponent parts of salt water.
* * * *
All Adelaide’s pet gambles for the past 12 or 18
months have had a shocking ending. Stannary Hills,
boomed beyond half-a-million four months ago, are back
to £130,000. The whole crate of Arltunga cats are
nominally worth £5900 now; six months ago they
represented £300,000. Smith’s Creek has gone from
pounds to pence in 12 months. Practically all the copper
specs., floated when the metal jumped over £6O, are dead ;
and the oil boom, which showed its nose over the hills,
never got any further.
* • • •
Field’s Reward, Yalgoo (W.A.), which was re-
constructed in February last, i 3 now under the control of
W. H. Hobby, well known in the eastern States. The co.
is in 320,000 shares of 10s. each, of which 313,750 are
issued paid up to Bs. 6d. After reconstruction the co.
started with £7BOO odd, cash in hand, and has still £23,500
to call up. It owns an old 20 head mill and 36 acres of
land. The old co. treated some thousands of tons of
14dwt. ore, and spent £21,000 cash, in addition to pro-
ceeds of gold won, before landing on the rocks. Whether
the venture under present management will repay outlay
is a moot point.
• * * *
Paddington Consols (W.A.) has apparently seen
its best days, and is quite unable to provide stone to keep
the mill fully employed. Barring sinking the main shaft
from the 500 ft. to the 700 ft. level, by contract, very litt #
development is being 1 done. Unless the; next level shows
a vast improvement the life of the co will last just as
long as current funds.
• •« » *•
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), is a good
example of too many cooks spoiling the broth. All ex-
perts who have seen the property agree that it is a
good one, but it has never been a success. The
mill recently erected is a ramshackle concern, bought
at a low price; but by the time it was erected it cast!
really more than a first-class mill could have been erected .
for. Now it is found that there is insufficient water to
run full time—a fact which might easily have been fore-
seen. Yet the directorate consists of mine managers and
ex-mine managers. Until water is Obtainable the mine
can never do itself justice, and will certainly never be in
a position to earn divs. ; and running the mill one shift is
simply wasteful.
The consignment of the old 50-head stampers
of the Lake View Consols (W.A.) to the scrap heap will
come as a relief to the staff. The 25-head mill erected
by manager Hartmann just prior to his dramatic exit,
together with the new 50-head now on order, should
treat about 8000 tons monthly. As the grade of ore will
be considerably lower, the current yield of, gold is not
likely to be exceeded. Last year, according to the
monthly reports, the total local costs panned out at 39s.,
but the yearly accounts showed 75s. Unless a very
material reduction can be effected, it is impossible to see
how lOdwt. ore is to meet current expenses. Mine is
now being opened up at 1400ft., and the main
shaft is on its way down to 1600ft., where the
next level will be opened up. The co. has paid
£1,312,500 in divs., but none have been forthcoming for
two years, and, unless a vast improvement occurs in the
grade of ore, it is impossible to see where any margin of
profit is to come from.
(Continued on page SO.)


ym
f
Panama Hats
GENUINE,
FINE GRADE,
• HAND SELECTED,
UNBLEACHED
PANAMA HATS^
rfrfvmawr, mi. ■wn .
prices- 19/6 37/6.
MEN'S
FOLDER,
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
GEORGE and BARRACK STS., SYDNEY
Si
fS
It is the simplicity by which nice photographs are
made of friends, pretty scenes and interesting incidents
that has popularised Amateur Photography; and it is
lie entire satisfaction given by Cameras and Photo-
Supplies obtained at Harrington’s which has made their's
the foremost establishment for the supply of everything
pertaining to Photography.
Beginner’s Outfit, complete with Camera, Acces-
ories and Book of Simple Instructions, for taking
Portraits, Views and Snapshots, price 13/-, or posted
t) any address in N.S.W. 14/9; to other States and New Zealand, 16/6.
Or the celebrated “Victor” Camera, price 30/-; posted in N.S.W., 31/3; other States and
N.Z., 32/6. The “Victor” Camera and Outfit, complete, price, 37/6; posted in N.S.W, 40/-; other
States and N.Z., 41/6. Both these sets are exceptionally good value —practical, genuine and simple
to operate. Other Cameras from 5/- up to £5O. Illustrated Catalogue, over 300 pages, Free!
Harrington & Co., Ltd., Photographic Merchants, 66 King-st., Sydney, and 93 Queen-st., Brisbane.
Society
AFRAID OF IT GETTING ABOUT.
G OLDSTEIN: “ Thorry I can’d help you, but
don'd think me hard-hearted. Fact ith
I’m very charidable, but I’m thryin' to keep
it a thecret.”
,The High Court should keep clear of the
adversely - criticised practices of State courts.
Chief Justice Griffith was not warm in his seat
when he appointed as his Associate, at £3OO a
year, his son, E. P. T; Griffith. In such cases
the Judge simply quarters his son, who may or
may not be competent, on the taxpayers.
“ Werrimee”: London journals are already
exercised with regard to a name for the Federal
capital, and with the Britisher’s usual originality
in matters of nomenclature, as shown in New
South Wales, New Zealand, New Guinea, New
Caledonia, New England, New Ireland, New
Britain, New York, &c., such abominations as
Londona, New London, &c., are suggested. The
name of Tumut is considered a monstrosity ; yet
England teems with such malformations as Chip-
ping Norton, Pokestogg-on-the-Hike, &c, One
Godfrey Burchett, “son of a pioneer colonist,”
proffers his views—a sample of many :
Might not the new capital become Alexandra, a lasting
memorial to one of the most gracious figures in British
history, wife of a king who has the interests of all his
subjects at heart, and mother of a Prince who under-
stands and sympathises with the spirit of the colonies ?
George Pile understands and sympathises with the
spirit of the cawlonies much more than the prince-
ling can possibly do, so why not Georgepile, or
Pilesdog, or Dogpile, or Pilegeorge ? Again :
Henry Parkes was among the “ Fathers of Federation ”
(the curse of having too many fathers), so why not
Parkestown ; Lord Hopetoun was your first Governor-
General, so why not Hopetown ?
What about our explorers, the first man to settle
on the site, or the aboriginal monarchs of the dis-
trict ; are they not more entitled to the honor
than Lord Hopetoun ? Besides, Queensland
already has a Hopetown, and Victoria has a
Hopetoun, and Westralia has a Hopetoun, and
S. Australia had one, but it died ; and there are
other Hopes kicking about —mostly in despair.
It is noted a little hopefully that some of our
legislators are patriotic enough to put Australia
first, and are putting aside their Bibles and Han-
sards, for the time being, to study aboriginal
dictionaries with a view to obtaining a name that
is both euphonious and appropriate.
« * * *
A passer of valueless cheques with a mar-
vellous steel-plated cheek turned up in the Vic-
torian criminal court ’tother day. He had been
convicted nine times. Asked if he had anything
to say, he remarked: “If it were not for the
facilities offered to commit crimes of this sort I
would not be here awaiting sentence. Hotel-
keepers and others are far too ready to accept
valueless cheques.” The injured ring in his
tone as he lectured the people he had swindled
sounded like the cry of an importer, who had
diddled the Customs, complaining of the facilities
offered by the department for passing off goods
under their proper value. It was the Rev. Dr.
Marshall who, when a “respectable firm of inir
porters,” the members of which were members of
his congregation, was potted for Customs swind-
ling, alleged that the Federal Parliament, was
“making laws which manufactured crime.” Ap-
parently, the Victorian steel-plated person is of
the same opinion about the law as to valueless
cheques.
Lunacy is still on the up grade in Victoria.
The annual report of the Inspector-General of
Asylums for 1902 shows that there were 4547
lunatics under his charge on December 31 as
against 4501 at the beginning of the year.
Out of 784 lunatics admitted during the year
the Victorian natives numbered 357 —a very
small proportion considering that the
native born are nearly three-fourths of the
population. There were 96 English, 83
Irish and 30 Scotch. The religious table
shows 246 Anglicans, 243 Roman Catho-
lics, 102 Presbyterians, 69 Wesleyans,
24 Lutherans, seven Pagans, four
Hebrews, and one Mahommedan. The
ratio of lunatics to the whole population
rose from lin 268 to lin 265. The
age table shows that the greatest num-
ber of admissions take place between
the ages of 30 and 35 years, and the
greatest number of deaths between
40 and 45 years.
Everything seems to be in the con-
spiracy to freeze out the last traces of
the Jingo fever in Maoriland. W"ar
medals have been at a discount for
months past; but the warrior who wore
the D. 8.0. continued to expand his
manly bosom, until the Royal decree
came along that the R.V.O. ranks ahead
of it. And as the R.V.O. has already
been awarded to the head steward for the
nice way in which he served out ice-
cream at the State ball at Delhi, as well
as to the German hotelkeeper who made
up a parcel of sandwiches for the Duke of Con-
naught before he went out tiger-shooting, the man
who simply owns a D.S.O. has begun to seriously
reconsider his position, and his head isn’t nearly
as swollen as it was this time two years ago.
Melbourne University authorities propose
to celebrate the jubilee of their institution, and
discover that they are as ignorant of its birthday
as if it had been found on a doorstep in infancy,
with a note pinned to its clothes urging some
kind old female to take it in and.bring it up on
the bottle. The Act of incorporation was passed
in 1853, aud it is thought that teaching was com-
menced shortly afterwards ; but it was not till ’5B
that the Sovereign was memorialised to recognise
Melbourne University degrees, and it was ’59
before letters patent in answer to that prayer
were granted. It is proposed to split the differ-
ence with an axe or some other handy weapon,
and make the jubilee year 1906.
Dr. Gresswell is the Hercules of the Vic-
torian Augean stables, but it will take him longer
than a single day to clean up the mess. Hercules’
troubles in the cleaning line were as nothing com-
pared with poor Gress-
well’s. The ancient San-
dow only had to deal
with the mess made by
3000 oxen in a cow-
shed that had not
been raked out for
30 years. Also, he
had to face only
one dirty king.
Gresswell has got
some very ineffi-
cient Bills (the
best he could
get, however)
drafted to sup-
press the fil-
thy dairy,
and to polish
up and scour
out the stink-
ing milk-can,
and now he
has tackled
the question
of the pollution of
rivers. He declares
that there are many
rivers and creeks in
theoountry districts '
supplying water for
domestic purposes
that are grossly con-
taminated, and he
advocates the framing
of a Rivers Pollution Act. One
example given by Gresswell
describes how the drainage
and sewage of the town and
hospital of Mooroopna goes into
the river that supplies Sheppar-
ton with water a few miles lower
down.
“ Notice : Should the petitioner
or respondent contract marriage before
the decree shall be made absolute,
then such contracting party will be
guilty of bigamy.” Such is the
warning now printed on every
decree nisi pronounced by the
Divorce Court in Maoriland. The
law does' not require it, but the
Judges have adopted it as a matter
of practice, for the reason, as one Judge
put it recently, that the anxiety of one of the
parties to, get free is generally due to a desire “to
run the risk of another shot at it.”
• • * •
Casterton (Vic.) has produced—and just
lost —a remarkable girl. She was 16 when she
died. Her mother told her to darn her own
stockings. She protested, and as the mother
insisted, went into her bedroom and consumed
the contents of a small bottle of strychnine kept
bv her father for poisoning foxes. The girl who
will take her life rather than mend holes in her
hosiery is certainly something new. If she had
been asked to darn anyone else’s stockings she
would probably have slain most of the population
of Shiels’ electorate.
* * * •
The judicial demand that there should be
sworn evidence that Pitt-street is a street, or The
Block a public thoroughfare, sometimes strikes as
absurd. Yet it is not a bad principle that the
Judge should strive to know as little as possible
outside of what is directly sworn to him. “Well
any sensible man knows that,” said a Judge at
Broken Hill the other day, “In the street there,
I see a newspaper office with the Silver Age
advertised on it, and I naturally know that a
newspaper of that name is published there.” And
then the Court roared. The Silver Age had
stopped publics lion years previously.
UNNATURAL AUSTRALIAN HISTORY.—
THE SHORT SUNFISH.
Orthaqoricus (extraordinary cuss). —This order derives
its name from the curious structure of the jaws,
which are fixed together in a very peculiar manner.
The short sunfish has been frequently seen on almost
all parts of our coast. It is of a most singular shape,
looking as if three-fourths of a very large fish had
been cut off, leaving only the top half—like a marine
Baron Munchausen’s horse. It attains to a very
large size, round, and has been known to weigh
30ulbs., its length being only 4ft. sin. It lives mostly
at the bottom of the sea (of Freetrade), but frequently
rises to. the surface, and lies, perhaps asleep— but
always lies — floating. When struck, it uses very
desperate, but exceedingly ludicrous, efforts to
escape.. It is not good to eat.
A FRIEND IN NEED.
THE CHICKEN : “ Thanks, awfully, I’ve been try-
ing to get out all the week.”
It didn’t matter much, if it mattered at
all, how many pamphlets that amiable Melbourne
crank, Bookseller Cole, published in Australia on
the wickedness of this, continent in looking un-
kindly upon yellow immigration ; but the fussy
old meddler has now gone to Japan, where he has
published in Japanese, and widely scattered, a
treatise of the same silly and superficial character
inviting local people—“editors and other thinkers”
especially—to say what they think of the Aus-
tralian wickedness. For a start, some of the
“editors and thinkers” are telling Cole things
that he hardly expected to hear. One of
Cole’s great points is that man is one, only for
the color of his skin —“a color which everywhere
has been dyed upon his flesh by God’s glorious
orb, the sun” —this is addressed to a people who
are accustomed to see the snow four inches deep
in Tokio, and who recently had several
hundred soldiers killed by frost, but whom
Cole evidently takes for a tropical race
fried brown.” To that the Yokohama Daily
Advertiser says the local equivalent for “Rats!”
and asks Cole to “ remember that the Eskimo
denizens of the zone of the midnight sun are not
described by travellers as pale-faces.” The Japan
Advertiser says that “nis free and easy refer-
ences to the ignorance, &c., of the white man in
Australia may not impossibly rouse unexpected
emotions in the breast of the brown man of
Japan,” and adds, “Mr. Cole will leave for home
on the 17th inst. It may be pointed out that we
advised him to do so some days ago.”
OUR BROTHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bishop of Carpentaria says :“I have just returned
from a most hopeful missionary journey to the aboriginal
station reserve on the Mitchell River. The people are yet
unspoiled by drink, opium, or disease, and we have a
great future'before us.” He proposes that an expedition,
in which shall be included troopers, shall start for those
happy hunting grounds.— Daily paper.
The Bishop wandered northward and he struck on virgin
soil,
Way upon the Mitchell River, where the heathen do
not toil;
Where they dwell in naked modesty, and never deem it
sin,
And extend unto the stranger a simple, friendly fin.
There no pub, nor gaol, nor church is ;
There no social gimblet searches,
And no reeling soaker lurches
In that happy, northern clime.
’Tis a Land of Milk and Honey, as fair Canaan was of old,
Ere Joshua’s freebooters stole the corn and wine and gold.
There the grenadilla blossoms and the ruddy pine grows
wild,
And you find the fried bear pleasant, and the ’possum’s
good when biled.
There life a thing of ease is ;
There no virulent disease is ;
There the furtive ’gator seizes
Upon Nature’s happy child.
We will hasten there and teach the .heathen murder is a
, sin.
We will sell to him the axe with which he shouldn’t smite
; his gin.
We’ll take him rum, and tell him all the evil it has done
(Haw can he learn to shun it till he has some drink to
shun?)
Men should learn to love each other,
But we can’t convert our brother
From shooting at his mother
When he hasn’t any gun.
yic..
HET THULE.
THE HEATHEN IN THE SLUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He drinks a stinted draught of light,
lie breathes a breath of fetid air,
His day is reft of visions bright,
His youth is carked with sordid care ;
A human wolf in city lair.
He grows with soul and senses numb
To all that’s good and true and fair—
Ih: scunted heathen in the slum !
He knows the lore of vicious Night,
He kens the crew the gutters bear,
His eves are blear, his form is slight,
His forehead hid in towzled hair ;
He sprang from some degenerate pair
Whose souls were stricken deaf and dumb,
And so he grew—a human tare—
The stunted heathen in the slum !
Yet some day—if I read aright—
His savage kin shall do and dare,
S isll swing the blazing torch with might,
And light the town with hellish glare ;
Shall dance on all our treasures rare
While Ruin beats her rolling drum,
And princes die beneath the blare
Of shouting heathens in the slum !
May Heaven forefend that we should share
A fate so black in days to come !
Oh ! Hear the voice that bids, “ Beware
The stunted heathen in the slum ! ”
L.


I suppose you shave ! or, if not, of course
you require your hair trimmed. The most
fashionable gentleman’s hair-dressing saloon in
Sydney is Wild’s, at 30 Sydney Arcade—the
Arcade that runs from George-street to King-
street.*
Patents for Inventions.—Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.»
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
WATSON’S WHISK Y.
.Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
STARCH
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
Helpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Unvarying:
in
Quality*
* A, W.H.”: Me par (B. l/10/’o3)aboutadvt.
tor girl, poor wages, no objection to baby.” The
thing is only too common. At Melbourne
Women s Hospital the authorities actually help
representatives of various “religious homes” to
persuade the “ fallen ” girl to Scrub godly linen at
the consecrated washtub for as long as three yours
in return for cadged broken victuals and a bed.
n^ or^ ages ’ , ind^d; n 0 Wages would be a lot
j er t ! e ™ark. The only remedy seems to be a
Factories^t^ 63 “ aU liXUndries under a "ise
* * * *
. The National Service League ” —a new
British organisation to urge the vital importance
to the empire of compulsory naval or military
training, which is seeking members in Australia—
has an ingenious way of catering for the large
rabbit-brained section of humanity that has a
craze for titles and scraps of alphabet. You can
become a member for a guinea, but by sending
hve pounds you become an “Honorary Vice-
President. It ought to be worth the money—
Honorary V ice-President of the National Service
Eeigue! But if Alderman Biggins wanted to
be Honorary Emperor or Archbishop of the show
W 1 ij u tltle “His Tremendous Grace”—what
would that cost ? Writer inquires feelingly, having
a personal interest in these matters; he is himself
an hereditary honorary private in the Polish in-
surrectionary army when there is one. It came
about in this way. Writer’s father was a Con-
servative locally, but sympathised much with
liberty abroad, and gave his cheque manfully
to aid oppressed nationalities, red-shirted Gari-
baldi ans, and so forth. He handed the usual
donation to a Polish collection taken up in
England during the 1863 insurrection, and was
formally thanked and enrolled as something or
other—Friend of Oppressed Nationalities, or
something.. Anyhow, honorary private seems
abott the size of it, and writer reckons he inherited
the honor.
■*', * * *
M’s.L.A. Ramsay and Williams have before
Victorian Assembly a brief but sudden measure
entitled the Barmaids Restriction Act, which sets
forth that no person of the female persuasion
shall henceforth attend to customers in or about
any licensed victualler’s premises, excepting said
person be the 'wife or daughter of a licensee or a
female licensee. The restriction is not to apply to
existing barmaids until January Ist, 1909, which
gives Polly five years in which to get married.
And if Polly can’t get married in five years, with
no new competitors coming into the business, she
is a slower girl than she looks.
»** * -
Melbourne’s 'Anglican bishop, Clarke,
lately bewailed the increasing tendency of wealthy
citizens to ignore the church when making their
wills. “ One of these wills not long
ago obtained probate at £106,000,
and not one penny was left to
the diocese for church purposes,”
wailed the bishop, “yet there was
scarcely a will made in Yorkshire
by a well -to- do person of the
mediaeval period that did not con-
tain a bequest for the building of
York Cathedral.” One fair infer-
ence might be that the church has
been found out in the interim.
Another way of putting it might be
that it is the church’s business to
convince people of the advisability
of leaving their money to cathe-
drals, and it has failed badly.
When people no longer pay to see
a show, the assumption is that
there is something wrong with the show—at
least, the actor and manager are expected to look
at the matter in that light. When J. C. William-
son or Alfred Dampier fall in they are not allowed
to threaten the public with the horrors of a -here-
after for not liking the show.
* * * * - :■
Years ago there was a great siege of
Truth office in Sydney, when A. G. Taylor
ran it.. -Another siege took place recently at
the Melbourne office, when old ex-P.M; Ogi'er
obtained a verdict of ,£5OO and costs against John
Norton. Justice Hodges refused stay of execu-
tion, unless a big sum was paid into court,
and Ogier sent a warrant of distraint. The
great John was at the time in Sydney, but his
manager erected fortifications and threw up
entrenchments. Papers were sold through the
iron bars of a window, and copy was received
through the same medium. There was a bum/
bailiff-in the front of the office and another at the
rear, but nothing very sensational happened.
The siege lasted a very short period. A cheque
was signed, and the prothonotary holds the
money pending the appeal which is promised.
* * * *
For years past the Victorian Government
has had a lightship off Williamstown, which
always breaks adrift when a storm arises and
dodges about like a will-o’-the-wisp, to the bewil-
derment of mariners. At length it has been
decided to replace it by a pile light, and the old
burlesque of a travelling lighthouse will soon be
a thing of the past.
A Melbourne parson has been lecturing on
" Purgatory Completely Upset.”
“Marat,” having collected his thoughts,
sends this :
This barbaric Eight Hours procession doesn’t make me
enthuse one bit. Went to look at it the other day, and
came away disgusted. Fat marshals, and vice-marshals,
who had never been on a horse since last Eight Hour
Day, led the way, and pushed people out of the path of
huge trollies full of the Fat Man’s goods. Slushing along
in the mud behind each load were scores of persons
stuffed full of pride because they, made the goods. The
fat one looked out of the window and cheered ; he was
getting a great advertisement. A couple of lions and
tigers were there in a cage. They also were slaves of the
big man, and it was quite right they should march with
the other toilers. One banner had a picture of a king,
archbishop, and laborer. The laborer was between the
two, and he looked rather crushed. A knacker’s cart
with a nearly dead horse on it finished the procession. I
fancy the horse represented Labor. I went home and
took a Bilious Beanseed. I felt bad.
* * * *
Australia breathed a great sigh of relief on
Monday when the cable brought the assurance
from Northcote, the new Governor-General, that
he intended
to render justice to all dwellers under the Southern
Cross.
There had been quite an amount of fear that he
might have inaugurated a regime of oppression
and spoliation, with knout accompaniment, over
Australia, S’America, S’Africa and other terri-
tories under the Southern Cross. But all that is
now removed. Perhaps G.,G. Northcote might
further add to Australian comfort by pledging him-
self that he will well and truly lay all foundation
stones submitted to him, and not hang by the neck
until they are dead such church bazaars as come
within his range of duties ; and, further, that he
won’t insist on using the Australian forces to
coerce the S’Americans if they object to him lay-
ing their foundation stones and opening their
mothers’ meetings.
UNDER AN EVIL STAR.
HIM: “ You, remember Brown Smith.”
HER: “The poor unfortunate man who lost his
young wife, about six months ago! ”
HIM: “Yes, unlucky beggar; he’s been married
again.”
Chief Justice Way, at Adelaide last week,
passed sentence of 12 years in gaol and 20 lashes
on two larrikins, aged 18 and 20, who fired at and
wounded a policeman. His Honor added that he
had reduced the sentence on account of the
prisoners’ youth. What is his Honor’s complete,
unreduced sentence like?
Maoriland Mary Anns
have not baulked at
the stiff job of draw-
ing up a “ log,”
though when they
first tackled the work
they wept bitterly
in their pinafores
at the magnitude
of it. They de-
mand, first of all,
that from the
time when they
begin to get the
missus’s early
morning cup of
tea ready, to
the time when
they empty the
last drop of
washing-up
water down the
sink at night,
shall not exceed
13 hours. If
they are wanted
up after that,
then they must
have “ a little
extry ” say,
sixpence an
hour to go on
with. As to
time “ off,”
Mary must have
one afternoon a
week (Thurs-
days where pos-
sible), besides
every Sunday after-
noon ; if, however,
only one Mary is employed, then she must
come home in time to get tea and do the wash-
ing-up, but shall be entitled to go out again for
the evening. Wages she only makes a mild pre-
tence to settle. They ought to be at least 15s. a
week, she says ; but, though she must never get
less than 75., any arrangement in between these
two figures may be left to the interested parties.
The Canterbury Domestic Helps’ Union talks of
presenting the “log” to the Arbitration Court if
the local ma’ams don’t take to it a little more
kindly ; and if it does it will also ask that a “ pre-
ference of employment to unionists ” clause be
added to the award. The “log ”of the Canter-
bury Dish-droppers’ League looks very reasonable
anyhow.
Infant mortality in Westralia is still
appallingly great. In 1901 the record
was down to 128’89 per thousand, reckon-
ing children under five years, which was
about 30 per 1000. above the Common-
wealth average; but last year there was
a deadly spring to 147’9 per 1000. These are
almost the highest figures in the world—
higher even than the average of those English cities
which have so unholy a reputation. Perth ought
to be one of the healthiest cities in Australia, but,
having no proper sewerage system and the surface
being extremely porous, the sub-soil has become
an abomination.
* * * *
Melbourne’s quaint Chinese strike among
the furniture-making heathen, which was sup-
posed to be practically ended, seems to be still
alive. The settlement has broken down badly.
In addition to their first demands—that the 10
per cent, reduction be restored, and that the
objectionable employers abandon their combine—
the yellow workers now insist, as a condition of
their return to work, that the employers shall
first offer two pigs as a sacrifice to Joss. As most
of the bosses are quite civilised, and “ belong allee
samee Church of England mission in Lilly Buck
stleet,” the desired abasement and recantation of
“faith” is anathema. Also, in addition to the
unions, two semi-religious societies have taken a
hand, viz., the Bo Leong and the Gee Hing,
Corresponding to the Free and Accepted Giraffes
and the Enslaved Bricklayers of more civilised
races, and these threaten trouble if Joss is not
immediately appeased. This intrusion of the
religious element into the business is likely to
make very serious trouble.
* * * *
In reply to a Melbourne clergyman who
wrote him on the question of the danger to health
arising from the common use of one cup in the
celebration of communion, the Archbishop of
Canterbury answered, through his secretary :
'i he matter is one which is receiving very careful con-
sideration fronrthe church authorities, but the highest
medical authorities think that there has been great mis-
apprehension and needless alarm upon the subject.
Who are the Archbishop’s “highest medical
authorities?” So many big doctors have spoken
out in the open on the other side that the Arch-
bishop must specify his witnesses.
* * * *
On behalf of a Melbourne young man,
found guilty of Stealing a bicycle, it was success-
fully pleaded that the theft was “a drunken
freak ” and the prisoner was clearly innocent of
evil designs, seeing that he didn’t know how to ride
a bike. Next time’ a hungry vagrant is charged
with stealing books he ought to be able to escape
punishment by pleading that lie Can’t read, and
the person who embezzles a herd of Cattle should
be all right if he can bring evidence that he is a
vegetarian and so couldn’t possibly have intended
to eat t,l e herd.
In the vain hope of securing peace and
quietness for Sammy Way’s speech at the next
Adelaide University Commemoration, the. Board
of Discipline has held consultation. with the
senior students, and. asked them to find a way
of stunning the juniors into respectful silence.
Said seniors started with the wise suggestion that
if Way didn’t say anything he probably Wouldn’t
be interrupted.
£ * *' *
A case at Dubbo(JSl.S.W.) recently, where
a girl swore that her father assaulted her, and that
she recognised him by the light of the moon which
streamed into her bedroom, whereas an almanao
showed that the moon was in its dark quarter at
the time, recalls a celebrated case in Ireland. It
was an agrarian charge, where all the Crown wit-
nesses swore that the moon was at the full, and
that all the accused were distinctly identifiable.
An almanac was produced in evidence, and it
testified that there was no moon. As in the
Dubbo case, the Irish accused were instantly
acquitted. Subsequently it was found that the
Irish almanac was a manufactured one, printed
for the occasion. The late Judge Dowling always
had an almanac as part of his desk requirements,
and when evidence was given as to dates, days,
moons, and such things he consulted the oracle.
* * * * '
N.S.W. Education Minister Perry is fruit-
ful of new rules. He now ukases that inspectors on
their visits shall ascertain “the local character
and reputation of teachers.” How will they do
it? They collect information about the local
character and reputation of teachers now in an
unofficial sort of way, mostly by gossiping in
hotels. Where the inspector puts up he generally
confabs with Mrs. Public-house. If the teacher
drinks there, his character and reputation are
probably high ; if he doesn’t drink, or if he drinks
elsewhere, verdict accordingly. Teachers did not
mind that much, as only rarely did the inspector
take any official notice of Mrs. Public-house, but
if he goes about now clothed with a mandate' to
ascertain and officially report, some new course
should be marked out for him. Will he ask the
police? Or will he, which looks a fairer way, call
a public meeting and take a show of hands? Or :
will he aSk the parson, the priest, the publican
and the bobby? A teacher who was well spoken '
of by all four should be a pretty comprehensive
sort of man.
THE CHINESE STRIKE.
“In consequence of the employers having locked out
their hands as a means of defeating the strike of cabinet
makers much privation exists amongst the Chinese."-
Melb. press item.
THE WHITE CABINET-MAKER (frozen out, and now
a diver in rubbish-barrels): “Great Scott!
more Chinese competition! ”
Characteristic bit of sanctimonious blather ;
by General Booth (due to stump the Common
wealth early next year, age and feebleness per-
mitting), contributed to the local War Howl
under the self-denial heading of “Smashing the
Target!”
A little fellow, a cripple, was saved in an Army meeting
just about the time of the self-denial week. He was •
present when the offerings of the corps were brought inl-
and wept, heartbroken, to think that he had nothing to
lay at his Saviour’s feet. Then and there, however* he
resolved that during the coming year he would lay aside
a halfpenny a day, and in spite of all sorts of trouble and
discouragement he stuck to it. A few weeks before self-
denial came round again typhoid fever carried him away.
When dying in the little top attic, the boy gave instruc-
tions to his captain to sell his crutches to make up what
was short of his promise, and, “Mind, captain,!’- he
added, “ don’t spend it on the box in which you put me,,
or the hole where you leave me till the resurrection-
morning. Let it all go to my self-denial card.” This is
all very beautiful, is it not? And yet, notwithstanding
all these toilings, and prayings, and pleadings) and -
sacrificings, I cannot help asking myself the question
whether we might not—nay, whether we ought not—do
a great deal better with this wonderful opportunity than
we do.
This is Booth’s creed all over—take the cripple’s
crutches and let the ungodly pay the burial
expenses.
STARSHINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a bushman, tall and brown,
And she was queen of the bar ;
He was a reckless devil-may-care,
And she was a tavern star.
Oh ! why did she gaze in his eyes that night,
In the glare of the heated room ?
\nd why were her lingering arms so white
»n the witching light of the moon ?
And why has he kissed her lips so red,
And fondled the dull, gold hair ? I
And why does her color come and go ?
And why is her face so fair ?
Oh, the why and the wherefore of love and hate
Are questions beyond our ken ;
But the fisher is Fate, and the hair is bait,
And the fish that are caught are men.
RIFLE SMOKE.
LOVE AND PAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Know ye not my name is Pain ?
1 I am Love’s twin brother.
No art o’ thine can break the chain
That binds us to each other.
I let my brother lead the way,
And then his keys I borrow ;
Fond heart, you oped to Love to-day,
You ope to Pain to-morrow 1
M.L.
LOLA RIDGE.


(
yy
“VALAZE Russian Skin Food eradicates
freckles, wrinkles, sunburn, sallowness, acne pimples,
all blemishes. Guaranteed to improve the worst skin in
one month. Price 3s 6d and 6s, postage 6d. Miss Nellie
Stewart writes : “ Valaze has made a marvellous differ-
ence in my complexion; cannot praise it enough.”
Helena Rubinstein & Co., 243 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
IS
“CRAV , EMETTES
U»K
|»y RAINCOATS.
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
P.D. CORSETS. * P.D. CORSETS. * P.D. CORSETS. * P.D. CORSETS.
PD
■ *
m
m
THE ABOVE TRADE HARK 13 A GUARANTEE OF THE HIGHEST ART IN CORSET HAKING
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 20, 1903.
Mt Diab Arini,—
Some of those who liberalised their education
by travel to Tumut during the Governor’s visit
complain that “local” color of the proposed
Capital site was submerged, so far as theTumutoes
were concerned, by the influx of Sydneysiders and
Melbournians. On the racecourse were dresses
good enough for the forthcoming Cup; at the
ball were gowns correspondingly choice. The
Melbourne women were specially smart, wearing
those “ vive Varmie ” coats with military buttons.
But if the invading army suppressed the inhabi-
tants, it didn’t obscure the landscape which will
remain shrined (or framed) in the hearts of the
Rawsons and their aides what time they remain
in the land. Reason : It reminded them of some
parts of dear old Fogland with its rolling, curving
distances, and its river bordered with alders,
poplars and willows (a Tennysonian stream in
which the wine flask might cool in moss), and its
cottage gardens, over the fences of which the lilac
waved its plumes, white and amethyst, at the
amber-eyed goats —and at the aides.
Not many Tumutoes were at the ball and the
banquet. The tickets for the first were a guinea
the double, and for the banquet 15s. The toast-list
was as long as the river, and somewhere after 11
his Excellency said good night and went back to
the train and berthed himself. The sight of the
long lighted train, silent and standing at ease in
the deep velvet darkness of the country night,
helped to raise Tumut’s self-respect, and its hopes
for the capital. There was the ducal car for the
Rawsons, their suite and servants; then the Pull-
man, holding amongst others, State Premier
See, his dame and the fair Miss Lily, some
of the Sam Sees, and Mayor and ’ess Hughes,
and the Ministerial car with Minister O’Sullivan,
Mrs. and Miss, another See girl, Engineer-in-
Chief Deane, and Dr. and Mrs. Nash. The Vice-
regal party had its meals aboard its car ; Minis-
terialists and Pullmanites went up into the town-
ship hotels for nourishment. A ’bus used to come
down and fetch them. Hotels were too congested
to offer more than a straw mattrass on the floor of
a washhouse to anyone arriving later than the day
on which the Governor’s train puffed in.
From the neighboring townships families came
in caravans and camped in good style. One of
these caravans, which had been three days doing
the journey, had its milch goats with it.. There
were babies amongst the immigrants.
Tumut has a hospital with a fine view. But
there are only two patients to enjoy the outlook,
and one of these will presently be well again.
Premier See coruscated, saying “ they must have
been run in for the occasion.” One is an old man
of 88 who was once a reporter on the S.M.
Herald. Mrs. Donaldson, wife of the member
for the candidate village, came in for
considerable vice regal attention. She is de-
scribed as having very black curly hair and
milk-white complexion—which pounds Spanish
enough. Mrs, Mason, wife of the local doctor
(he is a sportsman as well as a physicker), enter-
tained (I believe that is the proper term) the
vice-regal and Ministerial parties at after-
noon tea on the racecourse. Lady Rawson
is reported as not looking as well as she
might. Her snowing-up near Kiandra, and
the inability of some accommodation houses to
provide her with any sustenance but tender
gum-tops and such like native-bear and ’possum
rations, isn’t exactly the regimen a doctor would
S rescribe for one only just recovered from in-
uenza. Yarrangobilly provided so much bacon
and eggs for the famishing tourists that they are
now ashamed to look a hen in the face orjneet a
pig in the street.
There were ten ladies in the jury-box, as spec-
tators of course, at opening of Federal High Court
in Sydney last Thursday; still, they didn’t save
the function from being rather mouse-colored.
The three Judges seemed oppressed by the majesty
of their new offices, and it was not their day to be
eloquent. Mr. Wise only pumped up a two-inch
enthusiasm, and Mr. Julian Salomons got tangled
in his metaphors. He said he felt that “the
hinges of the door opening out to a better world
were now rolling back on its hinges.” And in
expressing his regret for the fewness of the Fede-
ral Judges, he remarked that “it was wrong, now
that we have an admiral as Governor, to spoil the
ship for a few pots of paint.” Chief Justice
Griffith is a distinguished personality; also, he
has a cogitative nose and a resemblance, in his
wig, to the Sinaian law-giver Moses. When the
Three took their seats, they went through the
farce of pretending to write something—there was
nothing to write about. In the evening of the
historic day the Chief Justice of Australia, Justice
Barton and State Attorney-General Wise dined
on board the new Federal liner Dorset, with Mr.
Owen Cox, the managing director of the line, and
the new ship’s “ old man,” Captain Prentice.
Mrs. Commanding-Officer Douglas Mackenzie
removes to Tasmania presently. Her husband
goes there to command the forces. The “forces ”
of the Flyspeck ! V ictoria Barracks is humming
like an apiary at swarming time over the depar-
ture of the dominating lady. She kept the
barracks in a wholesome state of scare and marched
at the head of the society column all the time.
The paragraphist of penny novelette leanings
has started on Lady Northcote: “ A certain Lord
Mount-Stephen and his wife,” runs the story,
“were so struck by the beauty of a little girl
walking in the snow, and dressed in the scantiest
of rags, that they took her home and adopted her,
and from that day forward all things prospered
with them. The little one proved a mascotte.” It
sounds like a flagrant ease of child-stealing. Any-
how, it’s not true. Mr. Stephen and his first wife
adopted, in the first year of their marriage, the
child who is now Lady Northcote. The Stephens
at that time had no arabesques or state or dollars
about them. They were plain canal folk. That
was over forty years ago, and the “ Lord ” and the
“ Mount ” are recent accomplishments. The
Mount was assumed as a sign that Stephen had
become elevated, no doubt—just as a Jones rising
to greatness might call himself Himalayajones.
There was a fashionable wedding—that of
Mr. Kenneth Duncan, to Miss Violet Rawson—in
Wellington (M.L.) the other week, and the struggle
amongst the uninvited public to get into
the church and secure good coigns of view is
described by a spectator as being worse than
a panic he once witnessed in a crowded lecture-
hall which was jolted in three directions at once
by a bull-earthquake. In both cases women
fought and scratched and butted and tore each
other’s clothes. In the one case it was to get a
view of a girl in the conventional bridal raiment.
In the other it was to avoid getting too close
a view of Archangel Michael or others of the
Heavenly Host.
Fresh Air League Ladies had a very swagger
annual meeting in Sydney Town Hall. Mrs.
Hugh Dixson provided an afternoon tea in Gov-
ernment House style. Mrs. Matthew Harris tore
herself away from her Japanese room and inhabited
the platform with Miss M. Harris, Mrs. See, Mrs.
T. Hughes, Mrs. Kellick, Mrs. Caro, Dr. Mary
Booth and others. F.A.L. charity sent during
the past season, from Nov. to April, nine men, 136
women, and 141 children to the country for rest
and change. Since the League was started in ’9l
4,416 persons have had the benefit of it.
A good idea is that of the N.S.W. Bookstall
Co. to issue booklets of colored views of nature’s
pet spots and of Australian birds, in place of the
time-worn Xmas card with its New Testament
greetings, or its Tennysonian, or Adelaide
Proctor or Ella Wheeler Wilcox couplet. Our
friends in Pokestogg-on-the-Hike (England) and
Auchtermuchty (Scotland), and in these notable
Irish centres, Ballymena, Cullybackey, Bally-
money and Coleraine, will look with interest
upon the eleven views in this booklet—Sydney
Harbor from Circular Quay, Waterfalls at
National Park, the castellated humpy where
the Governor-General lives, the Bulli Pass
(what a honeymoon haunt it looks), and
others, including a view “In the Far In-
terior of Australia.” This last picture adds the
ginger to the pictorial pie. It may be the cause of
some titled stockman being called ’Ome to take
his proper place in the House of Lords. Aback-
ground of gums, a middle distance furnished with
an old shed and a dog-leg fence, and a foreground
inhabited by white stockmen and blacks A fine-
looking white varlet stands well in the front, with
one hand resting on the shoulder of a gin whose
lack of clothing is partly compensated for by the
long grass in which she stands. Her nude rela-
tives “pose” with spears and boomerangs.
The other booklet—a colored series of birds by
Neville Cayley, shows, amongst others, our
beautiful blue wren, rosella, galah, rifle bird, and
the kookaburra with the Mark Twain expression
of humor in its eyes and beak.
From Messrs. Paling and Co. comes Nevin’s
setting of “Oh, That We Two Were Maying,” the
song to which Miss Crossley gave such an impetus.
Cover bears a fine portrait of the contralto. But
the title sounds incongruous. People don’t
May in this country, though they November
occasionally. “’Neath de Silber Moon,” by Claire
Newton, is a jolly little coon song and dance. The
Hawkesbury Waltz, by Harley St. J. Wilshire,
has a lot of good work in it. It ought to become
beloved of dancers.
In the ladies’ cricket match, in aid of Children’s
Hospital and Distressed Actors’ Fund, to be
played to-day at Sydney Cricket Ground, a team
representing Mr. J. C, Williamson’s Royal Opera
Co. and another selected by that enthusiastic
cricketeress, Mrs. H. Donnan, will compete.
There will be other attractions, as, for instance, a
contest between a Roman chariot drawn by four
horses and a motor car. A large doll, “Sweet
Nell,” will be raffled. A lucky name that. The
play and the horse were winners.
Miss Fitzmaurice Gill, who, on the authority
of competent judges, is an unusually fine sample
of the Australian native-born, opened in the
melodrama “Man to Man ” at the pretty Palace
theatre last Saturday. Miss Gill gives a good
picture of the melodramatic heroine militant and
triumphant, but her make-up was inartistic.
Roman knighting of Mr. Dan O’Connor is said
t d be the work of the Armidale prelate, Bishop
Torregiani. It causes a tenth of a smile to see one
R.C. press organ coldly quote a daily paper as its
authority for the knighting, whilst the other
R.C. paper gives columns and a portrait.
If a certain divorce case now in its initiatory
stage gets as far as the court Society will be con-
siderably shocked, startled or pleased, according
to the mood it is in, and the quality of the sermon
it heard from the last fashionable preacher.
I saw a wonderful specimen of the straight-
front tourist a month ago. She was doing George-
street very slowly on large tan feet, a wide tan
belt encircled her waist, her frock was hopsack,
quite short; a pith helmet with a fringed
scarf and green veil were hers; also tan
gauntlet gloves. From that belt depended
a swag of tricks, including a combination
knife (scissors, corkscrew, and button-hook
and blades) a scent bottle, a pencil and
tablets. But it was her figure (as she had made
it) that magnetised all who met or overtook her.
She was a thin., narrow woman, but she was
stuffed back and front to get the sensational
figure effect that you see in the. pianola poster
girl She would have made a capital illustration
for: •' ‘ And the vessel that he made of clay was
marred in the hands of the corsetihre. ” _ As the
tourist loped along she exclaimed, in high, thin
tones to a companion, ‘‘ O, look at the lofly
flawhsl” (flannel flowers in Jean’s window).
“ Hoe nace ! I’d lake to stop heah a long tame.”
Did you ever hear of a Billposters’ Union ?
There is such a body in Sydney, and it threatens
to make trouble. Some person, who deserves the
largest monument we can borrow, has a measure
before Parliament to do something towards pre-
venting any further defilement of our Harbor
shores with advertisements. He wants to abolish
the huge placard showing Uncle Jim leaping
a fence while in a state of ancient and
unnatural vitality brought on by using some-
body’s Short Pills for Long People, and to
obliterate the garish thing about the three-and-
threepennjr waistcoat. And the Billposters’ Union
urges Parliament to reject the measure because
the Union lives by pasting up these disfigure-
ments. I don’t want to see anybody de-
g rived of his living, but the harbor should
e kept sacred. If anyone will start a sub-
scription to find work for the dispossessed bill-
posters at painting the houses of the members who
vote against the Bill—painting them blue with
diagonal yellow stripes—l will give my mite. Any
billposter can paint a house quite as well as the
house that that sort of man lives in deserves to be
painted.
Canon Sharp specially invited a large number
of medical men to the sermon which he preached
last Sunday at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, on the
text “ From the Most High cometh healing.” The
medical man is nearly always the unbelieving
man. He is so used to dissecting bodies and find-
ing no traoe of what lives after death that when
the human machine ceases working, he remarks
“The engines have stopped.” Canon Sharp
replies, “No, the engineer has left.” A pious
doctor is as rare as a religious sea-captain is
oommon.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The south wind was tempered to the summer
chiffons on Saturday, so the Caulfield Cup had
larger and more joyful crowds than for many a
season. One vice-regal pen was full to the steps,
the second had nothing substantial inside its circle
<>f palms. The Clarkes, with a suffering aide in
tow, were off to Gippsland—the bereavement
period not yet admitting of gee-gee frivolities.
The Terrace swarmed with the most gorgeous
figures. The approved summer charmer is a grace
with a general slope on. Her shoulders, her
chest, her waist girdle, her skirt shirrings are all
on a declining grade. When the effect is shown
in liberty silk, a smoothed-down Gainsborough
girl is the result. Shoulders dip down the arm,
the seams appearing above the locality of the vac-
cination brand. Only the hips rise to the occasion,
mostly by the aid of light, reliable pads.
“ Mrs. Clive Miller, with a billowy blue Liberty
frock and the clear shoulder slope, struck the eye.
A fragile bit of millinery gauze, a cobweb rim,
and an occasional pink rose, supplied a capital
top piece to the frail sweet frock. Miss Vera
Clarke might have “ arrived ” with her classical
silk garb, but for a hot flame-red hat. Mrs.
Langtree had a truly wonderful dress. It was a
white glace, mounted in costly black lace, which
had an elaborate trellis design in black mirror
velvet tabs. Mrs. D. Mackinnon, Mrs. J. Grice,
Mrs. Edward Miller, and Mrs. E. Raleigh, won
points for either handsome or telling raiment.
“ The most jubilant soul in the Caulfield throng
after Sweet Nell’s victory was Rupert Clarke.
He and trainer Scobie and the mare held a levee
in the bird-cage. ‘I knew it; oh, I knew it all
right! ’ said Rupert, chewing his cigarette and
stroking the quivering steed. ‘ I wired to the
West last night—l told all I knew to plank their
last penny on her. She gets a Roman Catholic
church a stained-glass window. Yes, I said they’d
get a slap-up stained one if Sweet Nell won. Isn’t
she great? Yes, like her namesake and god-
mother ! ’ The crowd gathered. Society dames
upbraided the dear baronet for not forcing the
certainty on them. A highly excited female went
to deposit a kiss on Sweet Nell’s nose, but the
mare wasn’t taking any. She reared, and slapped
the lady’s cheek with her tail.
“ Congratulations on their engagement crowded
on Miss Annie Mitchell—the golden-haired sister
of Melba—and Mr. Harry Box at the recent
races. Miss Mitchell wore a gorgeous white frock
with large, florid applications of black lace. It
was a Paris-stamped toilette with points to spare.
Mr. Box is one of the dear pets of Society. He
has revolved at every function of note for the last
ten years, and has never looked blase.
“There is ho shining happiness in Justice
Barton’s visage. Nothing sorrier could well be
imagined. ‘ Oh, I’ve done it now ! ’ is the mes-
sage in his woebegone expression. It is well-
known in the House that there is absolute regret
down in the deep corners of the Barton heart that
the political turmoil is over for him. And his
new judicial expression says as much.
“ The she-riflers are coming on. It’s the correct
thing to dine and toast these young women shots.
A Recent Saturday saw a Ballarat team come
along to knock bulls-eyes off the Commonwealth
contingent, which is mostly an Essendon institu-
tion. The programme for the day included a
municipal welcome by Mayor Gillott and a drive
to the Town Hall. There breakfast, with cham-
pagne, toasts and the wine circulating freely.
Then came a drive through the city and St. Kiida
in open drags. A heavyweight luncheon followed
at the Vienna. Then a drive to Essendon and
the match. Of course the Ballarat team was
defeated. After all that hospitality what else
could be expected ?
“They say there is to be another effort to
achieve that liquor license for the Alexandra Club,
and that the dames are confident of success. The
new woman will have really arrived when, meeting
a male friend on the Block, she can take him into
her club for a peg.
“When the American beauty-rose comes here,
as come it will, lofty floral adornments will
prevail, because the beauty-rose grows on stems,
tall as a man. A fortune awaits any gardener,
who has it all a-blowing, all a-growing here,
in readiness for the beginning of its boom.
Growers, who had in stock the 12 roses which
topped a recent press rose-poll, have been bought
right out of the winning varieties. Suspicious
people fancy that professional gardeners wrote
most of the letters in said competition, signing
different names, but voting every time for the
roses that it would best suit the writers’ pockets
to bring to the front.
“ The local Caledonian Society has been serving
up ‘ Rob Roy ’in aid of hard-up Scots. On open-
ing night, Mr. George Gibb, president of the
society, took the front of the d.c. in impressive
kilts, whose tartans could hardly be seen, owing
to big, braw, siller buckles and buttons and
siccan. For that reason beholders remain
ignorant as to the color, etc., of the Gibb tartan.
President Gibb, in appearance a big go-ahead
Scot, is a widower with an only child, a daughter.
Said wee lassie is already being instructed in the
art of playing the bagpipes. The McGibb had
with him various school girl members of the
Frank Madden clan, his Kew neighbors.
The M‘Eacharn, brand - new Lord Mayor,
came with his clan. Miss Vera Clarke (Cliveden)
looked very dainty and girlish in palest-blue,
with knot of darkest red roses nestling in corsage.
Her school-sister, in all white, seemed to look
upon a ‘ nicht wi’Scotch amateurs’ as excellent
sport. On the stage, Gregor Wood, as the young
hero, appeared on somewhat stiff terms with his
well-dressed arms and legs, but acquitted himself
fairly. Mrs. Hugh Paterson, all of whose stage-
business was connected with a small, pliable
riding-whip, made, on this account, a slightly
monotonous though meritorious Diana Vernon.
Secretary Hector M’Lonnan as Rob Roy, and
Messrs. Picken and Skinner as the Bailie and
Dougal respectively, were all refreshingly con-
vincing. The keening of the lament for Rob Roy
and the subsequent reels and strathspeys in the
rocky pass were good bits of work.
“Donald Macdonald, war correspondent, in-
tends, I hear, to run for a seat in the Senate.
“Suburbanism, pining for the necessary frou-
frou, has been provided with an execrable lining
called ‘rustle.’ This is supposed to give all the
frou-frou charm at a trifling cost. Really, it
crackles like stiff brown paper, and you wonder,
when your ear is struck with the sound,. whether
an animated draper’s, parcel is marching towards
you. The device of the flutterer who, not being
able to stand the expense of silk linings, makes
for noiseless movement and glides silently through
the season is worthy of imitation. If one can’t
frou-frou in the one and only fascinatingly subtle
way, then the thing is to get effect out of noise-
lessness. Be fairy-like and mouse along softly.
It’s a sweet, refreshing contrast.
“Rain drizzles have spoilt all the recent garden
parties. The second Tennyson party had to
abandon its garden intentions for mackintosh
reasons and go indoors. As nearly two thousand
processed along and deposited cloaks and gamps
in the outer hall, the sun came out. So the fountain
court became a temptation to the choicest trailers
and the smartest sunned themselves, thankful
that the weather vagaries had left the field
almost to themselves.
“ Probably never did the spring chickens and
the poultry who are old enough to know better
make such an exhibition of their banality as they
did at the Tennyson shivoo, when, in honor of
Julius Knight, they wore the red rose 3 of the
stage Bath romance. Those who had omitted to
corsage a rose annexed one from the table decora-
tions as soon as Julius came in sight. He himself
wore the romantic blossom with a lavender striped
shirt, a lavender tie, and tan kid gloves, and
some other fixings. He was brilliantined and
toned up beautifully. I have a lively fear that
one day one of these stage beauty men—Julius
Knight or Wilson Barrett of the short white
garment —will run for the Senate, and get in oh
the silly-female vote.
“The fashionable are in the throes of new ex-
citement —a croquet tournament. :It comes off in
a few.weeks under the supervision of the dimpled
Clarke aide. The dear young captain sails off
home soon to ‘join his regiment,’ which has a
ping-pong tournament, or a big ‘ ragging,’ or
other martial task of importance before it. They
say that croquet is growing in favor in the British
army—it is such a ladylike game.
“Miss Agnes Murphy denies that she is secre-
tary or any kind of a working partner to her
Crossley. Pure, disinterested friendship inspires
all her boom efforts ! £?o that the advance-agent
look of the thing is all wrong, and Miss Murphy’s
preliminary visits to all the localities where the
star is to sing count for nothing. The pen-woman
admits that, whatever little help she may lie able
to give towards swelling the receptions to Ada,
she gives and gladly.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lacti, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
7s. 6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne. Sydney—Mrs. Rogers, 54 Strand
Arcade; and Miss Cuthbert, 11 Victoria Arcade.*


“In Fighting Form.”
KIDNEY TROUBLE knocked me clean out,” says Mr. Wally Dawson, the popular
professional boxer, 8 Blanche-street, Collingwood. “ First I thought it was a cold
in the loins, but I got so bad that I had to see a doctor, and he said my kidneys were all
wrong. I had to be on the everlasting go, for the pain wouldn’t let me stand still five
minutes. My nerves were broken-down and shaky. The least thing made me jump like a
nervous school-girl. I couldn’t sleep. I used to double up in all shapes to ease the pain.
You can just imagine what this life was for an athletic fellow like me —hobbling about
with a stick. Patent medicines did me no good. I thought I’d have to throw up the
sponge, when a friend made me take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. He said they actually
made new blood, which flushed the kidneys clean and swept out the painful poison. The "Just hobbling about."
first box showed me they were doing what was claimed for them—and the second box conquered the pains and
steadied my nerves. My face regained its healthy look and I began to brighten up-
Five boxes made a new man of me. Now lam stronger than ever I was and feel in
true fighting form—thanks entirely to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.”
And Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure headache backache, rheumatism, sciatica, neuralgia, and anemia, just as surely
as they cured Wally Dawson s kidney trouble. But you must get the genuine-always in a package just like Mbs-
never sold loose or in bottles. Price, %a. 9d. a box ; six boxes 15s. 3d. Sent Post Free.
s
jWf D* VflL LIAM S ’
/*»
ILLS
ALE
COi
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The remains of John Norton were buried
last week at Rookwood. But it was another
John..
George Reid, with an affectation of
philosophy, repeated his old gag: “There is no
reason why I should live my life over again.”
“ Oh, yes,” said a hearer; “you could then start
No-Yes.”
Latest news of Mr. Jack Want is that he
is improving in health and is taking the waters at
Bad-Langen-Sehwalbaek, which is probably as
near to bad language as the saintly Jack has ever
managed to get.
The clergyman who celebrated that Sydney
marriage service which has led to sensational
police-court proceedings was a parson of “ The
Reorganised Church of Jesus Christ of the Latter
Day Saints. ’ And yet he only charged “a quid
a hitch.”
The recent anonymous donor of £lOOO to
Melbourne Hospital said he did not wish his name
to be made public, as he had nothing to advertise.
He didn’t even want to call attention to his
seventeen-and-sixpenny pants now going at a
great reduction.
The Epping (N.S.W.), prisoner who
didn’t kill anybody—was recommended to mercy
on account of his youth, whereas the jury should
have rather made allowance for the fact that his
name was Butler. Butler seems a most unlucky
name to wear in the dock.>
Knight of the Gregory-powder Danyell
O’Connor intends to send to Rome for the uniform
of his new decoration. It is said to be a beautiful
combination of parrot feathers and beads, designed
by a saint whose personal taste in clothes was of
the stained glass window order.
“When I see a high-salaried officer in
another House carefully place the mace on the
table, and then carefully take it off again, and
retire to a seat to do nothing, I often wonder
whether we are really fit to conduct the business
of the Commonwealth.” —Senator Stewart, on the
Black Rod.
“Hop.,” at latest, was at Toledo, Ohio
(U.S.A.), where he was born. He reports, as
many others have done, that going back to look
a.t old scenes isn’t all it is cracked up to be.
Somebody has always been building on the old
scenes. You go back to gaze on the tree you used
to climb as a boy and find a ten-storey hotel.
NATURAL LOGIC.
“Hey, Bill, pipe her nibs an' the fry in -pan.”
Yep; I s'pose she’s goin' to one ov them gypsy
teas.”
The Revs. Curnow and Kelynack, Wes-
leyans, arrived in Sydney by the same vessel half-
a-eentury ago. They worked for years in various
parts of Eastern Australia. One turned to
journalism, but the other kept on at church work.
Now they lie in adjacent graves in a Sydney
suburban cemetery.
Senator John Downer will not stand for
re-election in December. There is a steady ten-
dency on the part of big men to drop Australian
politics ; the financial sacrifices necessary are too
great. Australia will have to soon decide to pay
more to, or to expect a good deal less from, its
members of Parliament.
John See says he will instruct his colleague,
the N.S.W. Secretary for Public Works, to take
steps to prevent steamers controlled by the De-
partment being made available in future for ex-
cursion purposes on the Sabbath. “The Sab-
bath! ” One almost sees a Sussex-street purveyor
o£ spring beans with a gilt-edged Bible under his
left arm. t
Died, last week, Mrs. John Blaxland, relict
of John Blaxland, who came to New South Wales
in 1807 with a large capital. This John Blaxland
was born at Fordwich (Kent, England) in 1769
He died in 1845, so that the lady recently de-
ceased had remained a widow nearly 60 years.
She was Mr Blaxland’s second wife, and a
veritable link with the long past. -
The death of F. A. Wright, “ the
old grey horse” of the New South Wales
■[Northern rivers, has inspired some of his con-
stituents to compose very bad verses in his
honor. The late member for Glen Innes was not
so .much a politician as a father to the people in
his district. He knew most by their Christian
names, and of late years liked to be called “the
old grey horse.”
Maoriland has just got on to the track of
one of its long-forgotten children. A former
Surveyor-General, Ormsby, had a son, born at
Auckland, who went to Ireland as a young man
and didn’t return. He is now president of the
Royal College of Surgeons of Ireland, the author
of many surgical works, inventor of many surgical
appliances, and was K.B’d. lately.
South Australia has lost its hoariest
cyclist—John Miller, town clerk of Unley, the
largest of Adelaide suburbs. Right to the end,
which came when he could throw a brick and
strike his 70th birthday, he used to bike over the
hilly roads of his district, pursuing the wandering
cow to her lair and seeing that the culvert near
the councillor’s residence was kept in good order.
Quinn’s Bill, before N.S.W. Assembly, to
make newspaper writers sign their names to
articles might do some good. A little personage,
the other day, said he wrote all the important
leading articles in a certain daily paper during the
past twelve months, and if the Bill becomes law,
and a new signature appears in that paper’s lead-
ing column, his friends expect to enjoy hearing
him explain.
Dr. Chisholm Ross, who, as Superinten-
dent of Callan Park Asylum, did much to help on
reform in the treatment of lunacy in N.S.W., has
given up his official position to enter upon private
practice as a mental specialist. The State service
thus loses an excellent man through “ retrench-
ment.” N.S.W. is not as bad in that respect as
Victoria, but still is reluctant to pay a fair price
for high ability.
Miss Vida Goldstein, speaking at Korum-
burra (Victoria), in reply to a question as to whether
she had not been selected by the Reform League to
organise the women’s vote, said “ Heaven forbid !
I am a thorough-going Democrat, and if ever
there was a rank Conservative body it is the
Citizens’ Reform League.” The chairman of
Vida’s meeting was also the Chairman of the local
branch of the league, and he smiled a sad, sad
smile.
Labor member Peter Airey (“P. Luftig ”
of The Bulletin) refused the position of Whip
to the new Queensland Government, preferring to
take up the Labor Party leadership, left vacant
when Browne joined the Morgan Ministry, The
billet of W hip is worth about £3OO a year, with
free Parliament House lodging and clerical assis-
tance thrown in. The Labor leadership brings in
no extra money, but a tremendous amount of hard
work and responsibility.
There are only two members, King
O’Malley and Mauger, who have attended every
sitting of the Australian Parliament. This session,
however, there are 11 in the Reps who have no
single absence against their names —Hume Cook,
Crouch, Fisher, Holder, Kirwan, Mauger,
M‘Donald, O’Malley, Tudor, Turner, and Wilkin-
son. As in the State Parliaments, the Labor men
show up conspicuously here also. Maedonald-
Paterson, M'Lean, and Spruce Myth are at the
other end of the record.
That worn veteran, “Foxy” Graves, is
turning out just such another failure in the
position of chairman of committees in Vic.
Assembly as Duncan Gillies proved when jockeyed
into the Speakership. The Iceberg Govt, insisted
on appointing Graves for the same reason that
actuated it in appointing Gillies —the other
candidate was a Labor member. Graves never
quite has his House in hand, and frequently tries
to deliver long harangues from the chair instead
of just mentioning that he wants order and intends
to have it.
The Rev. £ £ Bevan’s half-given consent
to run for the Federal Parliament in Victoria
sent off an opposition crowd to Rev. “Larry”
Rentoul. But Fighting Lawrence wasn’t taking
i any. “I pushed away from me chances to go
into politics in the old lands, and I shall continue
for the same reasons to put them away from me
here.” Parsons, of course, aren’t barred from the
Australian Parliament as they are from some
State Houses, and there is one member of the
Rev. Rentoul’s kirk —Ronald—in the Reps,
already.
ViscountessGlentworfch, who died the other
week, claimed to be a centenarian, but the old
lady had probably added a good few years to her
life. The daughter of a country squire, she was
still a spinster at the time of Queen Victoria’s
coronation, therefore her reminiscences of the
coronation and “the dignity of the Queen’s bear-
ing throughout the ceremony ” were probably
imaginary. Westminster Abbey is a small place
for a show, and there are no seats to spare for
unmarried daughters of squires on very special
occasions.
The crowd with which the late Duncan
Gillies was connected, and which he for years led,
talks a lot about the necessity for a man to have
“ a stake in the country ” before he can be trusted
to manage its affairs. Yet it turns out that
Dunky had been for years a director of an insur-
ance co., on the strength of a mere handful of
shares of which he was only the nominal holder,
they being mortgaged for far beyond their value
to another director. And he ran the stake-in-the-
country party while borrowing small sums from
another Tory to goon with.
Belated by Frank Lawry, in the M.L.
House of Reps., that in the old provincial days
when Auckland province was hard-up, George Grey
asked the manager of the B.N.Z. for £lO,OOO for
the Treasury until the financial weather broke.
The manager agreed on condition that “ Hori ”
would stand security. The great pro-consul glared
at the banker, thanked him for nothing, and drew
out his own cheque for £lO,OOO.
“ B.’' writes :
Daniel Henry Deniehy’s death has just been
commemorated by a few old associates.
It is nearly forty years since the
ill-starred solicitor died, un-
honored and unsung. “ The
greatest orator and literary
power Australia has pro-
duced,” said one- of
these associates the
other day. I do not
agree. At all events,
I ask evidence. I
was invited a few
years ago to compile a
biography of Deniehy, with
copious citations from his
speeches and literary essays,
but after going through the
materials supplied, had to
report that the work was
not worth doing. Deniehy’s
charm of delivery must cer-
tainly have been great.
Parkes, Dailey, and others
attest that. But his
literature is a painful
struggle to be smart
and learned.
The retiring
Westralian Sen-
ators are De
Largie, Harney,
and Saunders.
Harney will not
run again, and
Saunders was
only lately sent ’
up as a stop-gap
by the State
Parliament in
place of Ewing. The local Labor'
will run, for the three seats, De Largio,
George Henderson, and J. W. Croft.
In the recent ballot of unionists De
Largie had 8535 votes, Henderson 4671,
Croft 4491. The fourth man scored
only 2780; so that this preliminary
ballot was decisive. Henderson is well-
known in N.S.W., especially on the
southern and western coalfields, where
he was miners’ secretary—a position he
now holds over in the West. Croft is
secretary of the Coastal Perth) Trades
and Labor Council.
At Lawson, on the Blue Mountains
(N.S.W.), a dairyman named Brannagan won a
large prize in a “ Tatt’s.” sweep, and, pious man,
put a good deal of the windfall into helping to
build a R.C. church in the township. He has his
reward, for they call it locally—but not officially
—St. Brannagan’s Church, and popular rumor
(which is a lying jade) says that Mr. Brannagan
and family have provided for them a gilded pew
with two candles burning in front of it.
When the late Lord Salisbury was in Aus-
tralia, he was a guest of the late F. H. Dutton
and his brother, F. 8. Dutton, at Kapunda, the
site of the earliest copper-mine worked in 8. A.
Said mine was discovered by F. 8. Dutton in
1843, on his brother’s run, and yielded splendid
profits for years. Francis S. Dutton went into
politics, and was Premier of 8. A. in 1863 (for 11
days), and again in 1865 (for six months). In the
following year, he became first Agent-General for
the State. Frederick H. Dutton stuck to copper
and sheep, and died in 1890 worth several hundred
thousand pounds.
“ T.D.” : Speaker Beazley has now bossed
Vic. Assembly for a month without wearing the
traditional wig, and considering the severe nature
of this handicap, he hasn’t done at all badly.
Beazley is rather badly furnished in the matter of
hair, too. It may sound treasonable, but I do
believe Barton and the others could have got
along well enough without covering themselves
with horsehair. If some of the people who wear
wigs could only get horse sense along with the
other part of the horse it would be all right, but
they don’t. I never drive behind a horse without
wondering if I will one day be convicted by a
judge with the animal’s tail on his head —or is the
blessed wig made of jute after all ?
Still another female candidate for the
Senate is announced. The latest upheaval is
Mrs. Moore-Bentley, who used to hang her wash-
ing out somewhere up Parramatta way. Mrs.
Moore-Bentley is going to support George Reid
because “Protection did not bring about that just
and equitable distribution of wealth which legis-
lators had promised ; nor did it result in that
measure of good to organised industry and labor
that had been claimed for it.” Perhaps this is the
real Freetrader at last —the one who is going to
abolish all George Reid’s protective duties on
sugar, wine, beer, tobacco, newspapers, etc., and
his special railway rates in aid of the local pro-
ducer, and to advocate the real nude Cobden
gospel for the first time in Australia.
For a while, the Queensland Parliamentary
Labor party consisted of one member, _ George
Kerr; he won ’ the Barcoo at a by-election, has
held it ever since, and
is still, with the party,
though outside he makes
little noise. Buodaberg
was the next seat won,
also at a by-election;
soon after that canto the
general elections of ,1893,
when Labor re-
turned 15 mem-
bers. The num-
ber now stands
at 24.
THERE ARE EXCEPTIONS.
1ST JOHNIE: " Do you know your sister quite
surprised me. She’s just as clever as she’s
beautiful.”
2ND JOHNNIE : “ Yaas, all that looks like gold
isn’t brass, doncherknow.”
“Gr.L.” : R.O. conventual establishments
are becoming so numerous that the supply of
names for the sisters, if not of the nuns themselves,;
must be perilously near giving out. At least one 1
would think so when one finds Sister “ Attracta
conducting a female choir at the recent Jubilee of
the Mother Provincial of Loretto Convent, Bal-
larat. I live in hopes that Sister Kangaroo may
yet be heard of.
One of the things which the world of
science wants badly is a reliable anemometer, -an
instrument to measure the force of the wind: The
German Naval Observatory (that is about as near-
as the translator can go) recently offered a big
prize for one, and inventions poured, in from all
over the world. The judges weeded them out till
at last they are sitting in consideration of the last
half-dozen or so, and one of those still in the
running is the device of a Sydney man, Mr. Henry i
A. Hunt, of the Observatory. Mr. Hunt iai
almost the only man in Australia who has eontri-.
buted anything of value to the literature of-
meteorology, but Australia isn’t wildly scientific,
as yet, and a man who does things like that gets
more recognition in Germany than here.
Late Mr. Curnow--even allowing him all >
the extra credit that comes with death—can'
hardly be called a great journalist. Origi--
nally a parson of the Methodist Church, he *
was reputed to be a brilliant preacher. In time ho ,r »
drifted on to the editorial staff of Sydney Mornino
Herald, which had then a very strong taste for t
parsons, and afterwards became editor. But the >
man who makes a first-class parson rarely makes :
a first-class anything else. Mr. Curnow kept the -
Herald tame and colorless ; under his leadership
it always limped in tardy imitation after its rival, a
and never boasted even a flash of brilliancy. Still
it was, compared with that rival, honest and fair,
and that is a great thing to be said to an editor’s,
credit. Personally, Mr. Curnow was a likeable
man and held in very high esteem bv his intimates..


To Play your Piano
m
The Pianola will aid you-
We are mailing free to anyone who will
ask us a book called “ Music in the Home."
This book tells about the Pianola, what it
is, and what it will do. It will be of in-
terest to every person who loves music,
and particularly to the many thousand
owners of pianos whose instruments remain
unused for months at a time.
The Pianola can be played by any one,
even though they may never have played
one note in their life.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt
cash, or £65 on moderate monthly pay
ments.
J*
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
185-187 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Hardy Brothers,
Vice-Regal Jewellers.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney;
118 Queen Street, Brisbane
(And at London).
Ladies’ Watches
In the Newest Designs in Gold, Silver
and Gun=Metal ; Enamelled, Chased
and Jewelled.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE*
Lady’s Gold Hunting Lever Watch,
with heavy 18-ct. gold case, fully
jewelled and adjusted, engraved
with any monogram, £l5. Strongly
re lornrn ended as a reliable time-
keeper. Others from £9 to £42.
Aboriginalities.
CONCERNING THE FINANCIAL EM-
BARRASSMENT AT SYDNEY ZOO.
“ The council of the Zoological Society is under the
unpleasant necessity of calling attention to the want of
further monetary assistance ; failing which, closing the
gardens and dispersing the collection of animals may be
necessary.”
Note left by an Italian sleeper-cutter at
his camp some miles out of Collie (W.A.)forthe
butcher who calls on him twice a week. The
butcher had left him some meat that was a trifle
subsequent:—
Mr. Butscher of Collie, you can taken vack vis Beef no
good Wanten good Beef no stinkt leicht tat. Wanteu
good Beef everey time.
So changed is the climatic condition of
Broken Hill that a recent Barrier Miner prints
a half-column account of a serious boating acci-
dent. (Imagine boats on the Barrier !) It appears
that two ladies who were out on the raging dam
were upset and got really wet. And there has
been a boating fatality, too. Five men built a
galvanised iron punt, and went sailing on the
tempestuous waterhole, and the galvanised iron
fleet capsized.
* * * *
People living round the shallow lakes at
the mouth of the Murray have for nearly six
months been watching an interesting struggle
between the sea-water, driven in by the tides, and
the rising waters of the river. For . weeks the
volume of fresh water made no appreciable differ-
ence in the lakes; then little by little the salt
water was shut out, then the mixed water was
gradually driven out, and now, five months after
the river started to rise, the lake water is again
fresh enough to drink.
* * * *
“Rita S.” (who seems to have been there):
The paragraphists who have been giving women teachers
“lip” in your columns, are astray in their surmises. The
stiff lip of the pedagogue in skirts comes of the same
microbe family as the lip worn by successful
actors, actresses (down the gamut of histrionic art, from
heroine of a problem play to warbler of coon hums),
judges, lawyers, &c., &c., who have to use their tongues,
nerves, and faces. In repose, the average mummer s
face is a cast-iron facade ; in play, an embodiment of the
emotions —as required. When “ off the chain ” the
woman teacher’s face is at rest, the lip hard-set and pro-
jecting, the face like a wrinkled meat-hatchet, with
freckles. See the same woman (especially if she likes her
calling, and some do) in the classroom, and her face is a
picture of kindness, patience—and intelligence. Women
teachers have to play their parts on the schoolroom
boards, and what nerve-racking, patience-exhausting
parts they are, where young Australia is over-brimming
with healthy animal spirits, and has a locust in each
pocket! * * *
At a small Victorian assize town, recently,
where Justice A’Beekett had been engaged on
circuit duties, four prisoners sat at _ the police
station awaiting the arrival of the daily train to
convey them to their “retreat.” The sergeant in
obarge, who had the “ calendar ’’—setting out the
names, crimes and sentences—in his pocket, went
to stable his horse. While standing by its head
for a moment the curiosity of the animal was
aroused, and, with an almost human interest m
anything blue, it extracted the document with its
teeth, and reduced it to a pulp. Then everything
in the vicinity got blue to match the envelope.
The prisoners could not be landed at their desti-
nation without the authority, and the horse
couldn’t be committed for contempt. The diffi-
culty was overcome by the Judge discovering a
duplicate “ calendar ” in his bag.
Wool-robberies
were common occur-
rences out-back before
unions were established
and wool-shed watch-
men appointed. Sheds
on the banks of the
Darling and _ other
rivers were special vic-
tims. The wool thieves
used to row up at night
in a boat, at shearing-
time, sneak up to the
shed, and carry down
whatever loose fleeces
were in the bins. In
the eighties two wool-
robbers on the Paroo
had a complete. wool-
pressing plant in the
bush, and used to send
four or five truck-loads
of wool to Sydney in a
season. It is common
back- block talk that manywell-to-do pastoralists of
to day made a start in that manner. Wool was
plentiful and valuable in those days. “Scrub-
shearing,” i.e., mustering and shearing the other
fello ws’ flocks, was also a common crime in the
good old fat days which are so awfully dead now.
The wool some large Western stations lost thus,
years ago, would now pay off their mortgages.
A PATRIOT.
BRUMBIE : “ My word. Jacky, you bin go terry grey."
JACKY : " Budgery, mine believe it in White Australia pretty quick I
“Ed." : Near Heathcote (Victoria), on a
range of lulls of volcanic formation, is a large
quarry where the blacks obtained the stone for
their tomahawks. All about are to be found the
heads of stone axes partially
shaped out but spoiled by a false
blow. I have collected as many
as 30 in an hour’s search, but
none have the edge ground on
them. The stone is of a close,
flinty nature, very black and
hard. Judging by the accumu-
lation of chippings, this quarry
must have been used for many
generations. As suitable stone
is not widely distributed, the
owners of the quarry bartered
the stone away to other tribes.
The stone is in detached pieces.
These were gouged out with
yam sticks ; the piecesjwere held
on a large rock and chipped into
shape by striking with another
stone. The roughed-out heads
were then taken to the camp and
ground on a slab of sandstone
—the male black held the stone
upright while Mrs. Aboriginal
rubbed the axe-head up and
down until a suitable edge was
obtained. For a handle the
pliable sap-wood of a box-sapling
was taken, a strip split out, and,
while green, bent in the middle
so as to enclose the axe-head,
which was lashed into the han-
dle with kangaroo sinews, the
whole being plastered with the
gum from the grass tree. The
blacks used these stone toma-
hawks for cutting out bark for
canoes, for cutting out ’possums
from hollows, and for opening
beehives. They very seldom
used them in fighting.
» * *
“ Elmore ” : lie peculiar
deaths of animals (“WarE.”
3/9/’O3). Wire-netting is the
cause of a number of miserable
deaths of dogs and foxes. When
they are jumping through wire
and netting, if latter is not
securely fastened, they catch
toes of hind foot in one of the top meshes, and
hang head downwards till relieved by death.
* * * *
Near Colbinnabbin (N.S.W.) a female cat
is contentedly suckling a couple of young foxes
that were put among her kittens. The little foxes
bark occasionally, but their foster mother doesn’t
object to the strange row.
“Postern ” :
Travelling ne a r
Young (N.S. W.), I
asked one of the
inhabitants the way
to Ferdinand
Casey’s selection.
This was the dia-
logue that ensued:
“And so you want
to find the road to
Oase y ’ s selection.
Well now, listen here,
young man, first yer
just lets down them
slip-rails, an’ yer’ll
just put them up
agin’, ’cause that there
land belongs to me.
Then yer takes up the
track on yer right till
yer get to the creek,
which you’ll leave, and
then follow along by
the log-fence till yer’ll
come to Black Stump.
Now yer leave that
log-fence on yer right,
or rather it leaves you,
as the road goes
straight on, and the
fence goes on round
the bottom of that
there mountain.
Now, there’s two
roads goin’ off from
that Black Stump,
an’ if yer take the left
an’ toiler it along for
two-mile-and-a-’alf or
thereabouts an’ yer
strikes the road that
leads into Joe’s humpy
ver’ll just have to
turn round an’ come
back to Black Stump,
’cause yer’ll have to( k
the wrong road. So
ver’ll take up the
track on yet right an’
go along it till yer
come to a biggish bit
of plain with a bit of
scr ib like on the near
side, a box-tree here,
a: kurrajong Lliere.
Well, yer goes 1 hrough
t h f an’ cross the plai h,
then you’ll come to
the s'h an t y where
Ohance is.”
“Thank you, sir,
thank vou. I’ll find
it and manage all
right.”
“ An’ what will yer
be doin’, young feller,
when yer gets to
Ohance ? ” *
•‘Oh, I’ll ask him the
way on from there.”
-Oh, yer will now, will yer? An’ it’s divil a word will
Chance tell yer of the way to Casey s.
“ Wed’ 'yer it’s this way-Chance was a
working-bullock, an’ has been dead this three month.
THE LATE WILLIAM CUENOW, for many years editor
of SYDNEY MORNING HERALD.
Photo, by J. Hubert Newman, Sydney.
On October 2 a remarkable nest, supposed
to be that of a magpie, was picked up on Hexham
Plains (Vic.). The centre was, as usual, of wool,
grass, &c., but the frame was a 2ft. 6in. network
of scraps of fencing-wire (something like a crino-
or a hen-coop), interwoven with wonderful
B kill. The nest was built on the ground—a corn-
mon practice this year, which, according to native
tradition, is a sure sign of furious gales.
O’HARA’S TIN PATCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tin, tin, tin, and the everlasting din,
Trees a-crashing, water splashing, while pick and anvil
ring:. . T i
Hear the falling of the kauri and the voice of Jack the
Maori,” , . ,
Vibrating voice of thunder, calling “ Now then, stand
from under! ”
Oh, the vines and lawyers cling.
Then the thud, the flight of shadow,
And the sun lights up a meadow,
As we stand all mutely watching the sunbeams gleaming
down,
Brighter than the jewels that bedeck a royal crown.
It’s the opening of a window, the lifting of a latch,
And the dawning of a city, clustering round O'Hara s
Patch.
Swing, swing, swing, the crickets cease to sing,
Palling tendril, tree and creeper as the axe cuts ever
deeper,
JJow the mauls and wedges ring !
Drear and dead, decayed of ages-when the world’s
medialval sages
Wagged their wigs, these trees were twigs; wide their
arms the shadows fling. _ •
And like kingdoms they go under, live their lives and fall
asunder
In the van of push and progress, breaking darkness down,
Haying deep the new foundations of city and of town.
It’s the opening of a window and the lifting of a latch,
P’r’aps another empire’s rising just around O’Hara’s
Patch.
Break, break, break, how the echoes wake !
The trees are falling down like the fall of king and crown,
Like the falling of the spires of some old monastic town.
Hear the superstitions dropping as their branches we are
lopping,
And the old dry-rotted dogmas and the lies so sere and
brown,
Where some tall and ancient wrong
Cast a shadow grim and long
There is light upon the meadow, for the axe has laid it
low,
And the dank aisles of the forest open to the sunrise glow.
Bo we stand all mutely, watching the old systems dodder
down
Where nations used to wilt beneath the petty princelet’s
frown.
It’s the opening of a window wide, the forcing of a latch.
We’re building a new era here, around O’Hara’s Patch.
4.
O. NEWTON.
NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dark Night swoops down on a drowsy world,
And tears the torch from out the hand of Day ;
Which glares with a great reddened eye of wrath,
Then fadeth downwards in the lurid bay.
The gum-trees shake and deep the gidgeas sigh,
And dews hang on their drooping boughs like tears,
The wind howls in a muffled monotone
Like to a goblin chased by myriad fears.
Then high above the gloom the white moon sits,
A jewel in the long black hair of Night,
And from the sky, sown with a crop of stars,
It pours the rich wine of its borrowed light.
The log of silence doth some strange fowl split
With the loud axe of his unearthly jest;
The dingo flieth with the poisoned bait,
And hollow winds moan on the mountain’s crest.
Till at long last the lengthy ears of Dawn
Appear above the far horizon’s rim ;
And down the murky stairway of the west
The Night departs with all his hearse plumes grim.
And toiling up the ladder of the hours
The laboring Sun doth bear the hod of Day;
And casts the constellations overboard
And girds his burning loins up for the fray.
S.A.
ADELAIDE PRIMROSE.


TABLE SALT
While common Salt is only a Seasoning,
CEREBOS SALT is a Splendid Food. Used
in the kitchen and at table, it gives
greater strength to the diet and builds up
the Constitution.
Prom Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
SICK BABIES IN SUMMER.
It is during the warm months of summer that
mothers have to be most careful of their little
ones, and at the first unusual looseness of their
bowels should give the little sufferer a dose of
Chamberlain’s Colic Diarrhoea Remedy. This
Remedy has been in constant use for over thirty-
five years, and is without question the best and
safest remedy in use to-day for diarrhoea and all
bowel complaints. A bottle should be kept in
every house for such emergencies. Get it to-day;
it will save trouble later on. Sold everywhere.*
The Philippine Islands are not the best of
good bargains for Uncle Sam. Reported that
there are fully 12,000 lepers in the group.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
WE
ARE
ASKED
By very keen buyers at times : “ Can
I buy cheaper at a Wholesale House ?”
We answer, “NO ! ” Why ?
Because we are the actual manufac-
turers. Direct from Factory to
Wearer. No intermediate profits any-
where.
Choice Diamond and
Fire Opal, A 5/5/-
Five Opals,
18ct, Settings,
from 30/-
Sapphire & Diamond,
£3/3/-
Diamond J-hoop, £6/5/-
Then our stock is much larger, and our output considerably greater, than 95 per cent, of the wholesale jewellers.
Then we sell to the wholesalers. No house can supply Bings lower than the actual makers.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“ Caber ” : Be wood-adders. Any bush-
man knows that the common variety of wood-adder
is about as dangerous as a garden worm, but its
resemblance to the death-adder makeß the average
city Johnnie regard it with
suspicion. When the line
was being constructed across
the main range from Ipswich
to Toowoomba, in 1864, the
navvies brought out by Peto,
Brassey and Betts held most
of our reptiles in holy horror.
One afternoon, Dugald was
bitten by a wood-adder, and
all Holmes’ camp was thrown
into excitement. The bite
was cauterised, and Dugald
filled up with camp brandy.
He was trotted up and down
till nightfall to keed him awake;
but the liquor was doing its work
if the bite was not, and the victim
became mbre and more drowsy and
inert. As a last resort, he was
mounted on a horse and despatched
to Ipswich (60 miles) with a trusty
mate, armed with a whip to liven him
up and ward off the sleep that would
know no awakening. Dugald arrived
wide awake, and Dr. Dorsey explained
that the bite was perfectly harmless, but
that Dugald had been wakened so violently
that he would be laid up for a week. Then
Dugald ungratefully assaulted his faithful mate
Jock, and the riot was so violent that the doctor
wished he had given them both strychnine at
first sight.
“ Jerong ” : Travelling from Broken
Hill to the Darling, in company with
Jimmy the Rooster, we were awfully
meat-hungry. Struck a ground-parrot’s
place on the Darling. Jimmy accosted
the woman who made her appearance at
the door with: “Any chance of a bit of
meat, mum? ” “No ; haven’t a bit in the
house, only a bone my poor husband left
unfinished on the table.” But Jimmy could '
see something hanging in a cart-shed, with
a cloth tied round it. “You have a sheep
or a goat hung up in that shed,” he said,
persuasively. She burst into sobbing, “No,”
she said; “that’s my poor husband. We had
a row last night, and because I wouldn’t give
in to him over the women’s vote, he went to
the shed and hung himself.” Then some big
sobs, and, through her tears: “You can have
the bone.” Jimmy brought along the bone that
the suicide le/t unfinished, and we devoured it.
• • * *
“Ciro”: In a recent B. par. “Scally-
wag ” speaks of the rarity of birds meeting with
accidents. Just saw a gate-woman at a wayside
railway crossing, down south, run out and pick up
a black swan that had struck against a telegraph
wire. In the early seventies, when trollying of a
morning near the Murray, used to pick up swan,
wild duck, and numerous spurwing plover beside
the railway line ; and when wire fenoes began to
replace the stone walls on the plains near Mount
Cotterell, scores of quail would be found along
the dividing fences. On fast locomotives, too,
have seen ground larks, in their excitement, fly
right in front of the engine and get killed.
MRS. WOOD (MISS ESSIE JENYNS).
Photo, by her husband.
“War E.” : Travellers this year are a
heavy tax on the shearers’ tucker bill; every
shearing-shed has a host to feed night and morm'
ing. At Goree (N.S.W.), as many as 300 received
supper and breakfast at one go, and at the roll-
call at North Yanko (N.S.W.), fully 600 men were
present in excess of requirements. All are willing
to work. What sort of “ patriotism ” would there
be now, if Australia called for volunteers at ss.
a day !
AN EXPERIENCED MAN.
SCOFFER (on foot): “ Ho!' on tight, Ginger; yer
got a long way to fall.”
GINGER : “ Get out! I bin ridin' ’ones ever since
I was a kid.”
“Periwinkle”: The average Bill, Harry,
and Jim promise to be just as superstitious as
the blackfellow. It is the exception rather than
the rule in the country to find any male not wear-
ing an iron ring as a charm against rheumatism.
Every lad in his teens around here fancies he has
a touch of the disease, and makes a bee-line for
the blacksmith’s to be fitted with a section sawn
off a rusty old gun-barrel. Blacksmiths are
making a good thing out of the craze, as a barrel
cut into sections will run into a couple of. pounds.
Where the anvil-man is an artist, he drills a few
holes round the ring, fills them with copper and
zinc wire, and the delusion is complete at 7s. 6d.
to 12s. 6d., and the simple inhabitant goes forth
as happy as the Hottentot with his amulet.
“ Ne’er-do-weel ” : A fright
and sturdy Bananalander, about 14
years of age, a remarkably plucky
and intelligent lad, told me that he
and a companion of his own age
were fishing in one of the few
remaining deep waterholes in the
Moonie during the recent drought,
when they saw a huge shape like
“the bottom of a large over-
turned boat, without the keel, ”
suddenly appear in the water at
their feet. I asked him to describe
the appearance more particularly,
but he could tell me very little
more, except that it was black,
quite smooth, and shining “ like
marble.” Asked if they were
frightened, he replied, “ My word !
we cleared ! ” He said he did not
notice any head or tail—could not,
as the creature was not far enough
out of the water. He. ridiculed
the idea that it might have been a
large fish—“no cod in the Moonie
was ever a quarter the size.” His
companion corroborated his story
in every particular, and no amount
of. cross-examination could shake
either of them. Many people be-
lieve a large species of fresh-water
seal is to be found in our inland
waters, and the blacks point to
tracks for which it is hard to
account otherwise.
* * *
“ Elmore ” : How far do ants
travel from home for tucker ?
Mixed some oats through a bag of
“ cocky chaff,” and turned it out in
a corner of small paddock for my
hack. Returning, about three
hours after, struck a trail of ants,
each struggling laboriously witli
an oat. Stepped distance, and
made it 380 yards. They were
what we call the “ meat ” ant— purple body, red
head. , * * »
. . ~ e „
Rewi was trying to sell a horse
Pakeha, and Honga, who happened to _ co , r ?°
along, thought he would put in a word to help the
sale if he saw a chance. He s not very
said the prospective buyer as he walked round the
horse. “But he’s blanky old, though, chimed
Honga, who here thought he saw his chance.
The Phil May Fund.
Even after the 15 years Which have elapsed since
the departure from Australia of that gifted artist,
t he late Phil May, there are many here who
vividly remember not only his unrivalled powers
as a delineator of character in black and white, but
his genial and generous nature, and the charming
personality of his hospitable and ever-devoted
wife Genius, as a rule, has no time, to look after
its domestic affairs , and Phil May was no excep-
tion to this, for he died leaving his widow practi-
cally penniless. A movement to raise a fund to
buy an annuity for Mrs. May has been started in
London under the auspices of a committee includ-
ing editor Burnand, of Punch, playright Pinero,
and Shannon, the celebrated portrait-painter.
To assist it, The Bulletin, which will start the
local list with a donation of £2OO, asks for sub-
scriptions from Australia. Any money sent to
this office for the fund will be duly acknowledged
and remitted to the proper quarter in London.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications iwnllaiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any ease re contributions voluntarily sub-
milted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and m
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Robt. T. : Thanks, bub you are under some
misapprehension. (1) Tint Bulletin fought the naval
tribute as hard as it could ; it warned Barton before he
went to London not to betray Australian interests in
that regard, and then sought-publishing several car-
toons, leaders and other articles—to get the Australian
Parliament to repudiate his action in the matter. The
cause was lost mainly because opponents in the House of
Reps, left the fight until too late, and partly because
R. E. O’Connor bamboozled the Senate into acquiescence.
(2) The Bulletin has given no countenance to any
Imperialistic ideas mixed up with Chamberlain’s tariff
policy, and has from the first objected to Australia being
pledged to any preferential trade proposals which are not
based on sound business lines. But The Bulletin is not
o-oing to be such a considerable ass as to scream against
Britain adopting Protection, if that country has the sense
to take the step, nor yet to advise Australia against reci-
procity with Britain provided the terms are advantageous.
(3) Tiie Bulletin isn’t “anti-English” ; it’s merely pro-
Australian P.W. (Melbourne): Of no value W.
M‘A. : Only shows again that screed deliberately
labelled “Poetry” is nearly always rubbish
Sandalwood: Some of your matter is good
as much as possible Albert P.: Certainly no offence
taken “ B.” is always glad to hear from candid critics...
Dick Gore : Amusing-, but too slight and flimsy.... Roma,:
For Heaven’s sake, don’t roll your copy - .M.J.E. . 100
much spun out, and spoilt by bad metre....Jujube .
Flabby and futile... .Jacob : You don’t sink very far, but
you never rise... .8.W.5.: If you would read The
Bulletin notices on page 8, you d save us a *?t of
trouble.... Huron: It may boil down to a par.... it. 1..
Returned accordingly O.J.S. : to rhyme
“brim” with “grin,” and “wine with mind. .....
V K H. : The magpies are building their nests on the
ground in Victoria because things have become so rotten
that they are afraid to trust their weight on the trees.. „
J.F.D. : “Disillusioned” not suitable.... James JN.x. •
(1) * Your cutting doesn’t say definitely that the Govern-
mint sub-let that water-supply. (2) “Sinking Fund
was so called because the country is supposed to sink
money in it, and the fund so seldom rises to the occasion.
Some countries (Canada, for instance) manage to keep
their sinking funds intact. Don’t know any Australian
State Government that can be trusted with 0ne....
Hiphen: Humor of “Dreamers’ is rather forced....
Warrego : Amiable maunderings about nothing m
particular.... Hubert B. : Same old petty sneer about
another’s unavoidable ignorance of something you
happen to know. It’s an argument that always cuts
both ways D.F.A. : Too many vicissitudes in the
metre....L. O’R. : Painfully precise and prosy....
Zamiei : Any reputable practitioner would be able to fix
vou up. The complaint is quite common.... Murray F. :
“Has'quartz any value in itself?” Ordinary quartz
hasn’t, but the agates and jaspers are quartz, arid the
amethyst is quartz colored by manganese oxide....
Darrell : Very carefully prepared. Pity the subject is so
hopelessly belated Barzoi: Too tiny a trickle of mean-
ing between such huge banks of verbiage.... Amy R. .
Stvle too schoolmissish and self-conscious, though not
without traces of originality John R. : Intolerably
long-winded....Olmo : Mostly uninteresting C.A.D. .
Mere doggerel.... Arch M'N. : Feeble sentiment in
wooden verse J.S.R. : That lunatic “ tig ” yarn crops
up about once a month... .A.P.R. :, Verse stiff and
unwieldy. Other item rather good, but we pass
> parodies.... Spix : Neither quite good enough.... John
■ Gilpin : Deadly dull handling of a pretty good 'idea.
Other will be looked up. Stamps of any State will
do ....Buck Nell: Not literary skill enough.
M E.C. : Too much of the “prentice hand. ....
King o’ the Kauri: It would have got in if the night-wind
hadn’t moaned in verse three. The night-wind moans so
often Manx : Can’t alter that line for you. The page
with that poem on it was stereo’d months ago. Anyhow,
it’» a mighty good poem even as you originally wrote it.
R A A : Unfortunately we hadn t enough faith in
your capacity to make the thing presentable so
we made it presentable ourselves. If J’ our rule
is that your stuff must go in without any
alteration or condensation, then business is off
Turn. : The sort of stuff which, if you were a great man,
would be solemnly published with annotations and
explanation's. As you’re not a great man you must write
sense if you wish to get into print C. and J. Mac
Too trifling, though it shows some merit.. ..A.M. .its
thin to the point of emaciation A.O.L. : Instructions
arrived too late.. ..G.8.: “ Music” and Did not Dare
both only moderate....Gebo : He was a Jew; died sth
August last. “ Little Boy at Manly ”is so dressed to con-
nect him with Captain Cook’s time ... Ratchet: Too
flowery and frothy... .W.A.T.: Style too wriggly and
discursive.. ..Pal: The name was not “invented for Port
Denison.” “ Pinchgut ”is sea-slang for a stingy purser.
MT : Will inquire about it Harry E. : Pretty-
good “ try,” but the subject is beyond your weight.....
J • Have decided to shock this moral, community by
printing “ Athirst.”.... Edgar D. : Lamentable scarcity of
particulars. ..Dingbat: Posterity would lose nothing by
the cessation of your writings—judging by sample....
W Brenta : Some skill in treatment, but after all it s only
the old, old tertium quid yarn... .Sandgroper :We shud-
der at the idea of starting a controversy, m verse, on that
subject ..Wicked Willie: Only one smart remark in
your parson sketch, “ that the Rev. is expected to dress
and live well on a poor salary so that he can feel
with the rich and sympathise with the poor. ■• •
John T. M. : Decision of the P.M. was palpably wrong.
The mere fact of the defendant failing to appear after
service of summons was sufficient for the case to be
decided against him on default... .E. : Didn t like to
contaminate the w.p.b. with it, and even the City
Council garbage box blushed to take it....R-D.W. .
Don’t remember that verse having appeared in 8......
Will S : Afraid you’re not cut out for a poet or an artist.
. ..Sea-spray: Cease, pray; cease writing.... Analeh .
No, we don’t appoint local correspondents Sanitas .
But milk can be and is delivered on Sunday W.H. .
You start with a nice, new rhyme :
’Tis the whirl of a western country ball;
’Tis the rush of a joyous scene,
Where the laughter glides as the soft eyes fall,
'Neath the glare of the kerosene.
Then you fall off lamentably After W.: Your hen lay
not quite chippy enough E.T. : Verse not bad, but
subject of little interest in Australia Solicitor .On tne
whole it is best to discourage the settler from borrowing
money from private lenders on the security of his lana.
Adelaide: Ada Crossley has done us no wrong that we
should cast wattle-poems at her.. ..W.J. : Miller U iris
rather faulty in spots... .Zadig: When figures are not too
familiar they are too strained W. : “ Pipe nearly got
in—failed on the last 1ap....A.G.A. : Somewhat jolty,
but it might have been jolted in had not the she-
politicians changed their minds and gone out on the
stump for Senate seats.... Miss P.: Surely you "
send those scraps in a serious spirit?... .W.B. : Night i
Kissed You ’’ just respectable verse. That man who sits
“dreaming” by the camp-fire “gleaming” grows weari-
some .. .Alone : “ Dawn ”is a big subject for a poetling
to tackle Daughter of Ossian : Obvious sincerity
doesn’t atone for its crudeness.. ..Sen : Well, you can
put it this way : if the appointment had been canvassed
beforehand, The Bulletin might have done something to
show the objections to it; with the appointment made
what’s the good of worrying?.....MO : Nasty story
about battering a dog received with loathing.. ..H-ii.
British authority rigorously sets its face against white
women taking to an immoral life in its Asiatic possessions
for fear of degrading the white race’s mana in the eyes
of the nigger....Alkane : Of a conventional pretty-
pretty type Zethuo: You have ideas, but not much
skill in expression. One verse as sample :
I’ve heard it played in many camps, round many a
splendid fire, .. , .
And played with skill and talent with a vim that I
admire; - . .
Its rolling, grand resonant tones in solos are divine,
When praising horses, men and dogs, and women, beer
and wine ;
No trembling, weak metallic thrill, no undecided toot.
But clear and full of spirit sounds the great Australian
Flute.
THAT PREMATURE REJOICING .
THE REV. JUMBUCK : “ Great Heavens! what
dire calamity has befallen this unfortunate
town?”
BILLJIM : “There ain’t NO c'lamity, boss. This
’re place is Tumut. An’ the inhabitants are
rejoicin’ ’cos it’s jest bin 'lected Federal
Capital.”
W.M.C.: Music-hall jingle with refrain every two lines
quite unsuitable for 8.. . . .Femur: It’s 100 to 1 that any
poem sent in with nice red lines ruled around the paper
is only suitable for publication in a newspaper that rules
nice red lines around its pages ; we don’t know of any
such newspaper... .G.R.; Yes. Labor leader Watson
supported “plumping" at Senate elections....Gimel:
Thanks for letter. Unsuitable : Ken, Duplex.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
JanL.: “Left at Post” may do as suggestion San
Remo : Subject dealt with before, more cogently John
Midwood: May use as suggestion in composed page.
Verses hardly suitable... .W. 0.8.: They are all either
(1) slight variations on jokes already used, or (2) not
jokes at all Ne’er-do-Weel: Possibly it was May’s mis-
take ; he wasn’t always careful in matters of detail....
R.W.G.: Drawing moderate; jest old R.M’L.: Un-
finished-looking drawing Show : With a newer joke it
might have passed.. ..P.E.D. (Perth) : Will use as sugges-
tion .... R.'H. : Norman Lindsay invented that gag for one
of his Bulletin pictures some months ago. You have a
“ front.” Unsuitable : Photag, J.D.M., Tribute, Kitty.


m
\
A/’ L
\ \
Jr
The S.M. Herald says Mr. Reid haswan"j|
fully burnt his boats and made any further®
[connection with the Labor party impossible.®
|(N.B. —He forgot to get out of the boat before®
he burnt it.) flll
J qi Mietit" you W viywn oJ- a
wail buiir M r M 7 "
Mro„ || "Wlw dvw iT> Joe, idorit'Kffow
” But dft ftf)l bteeje of Com|?€'titrpr7
do T?low in
't^d > oben door.
/ 7; -
S R . *1 want re doi«6.
%
J^s-T
tloW
“ It has been raining in London for 30
days.” — Cable.
The effort of the Sydney dude to meet the
situation. —-«■=
JS
lleWiT / e
v %les&l Q^ 1
y> oij clf¥ o u^r y»M w| W«^ > -
1 tf&.n'T" io W w U r
“ Preetrade meant the brotherhood of man,
which had been taught from the prophet
Isaiah down to Robbie Burns—both good
men.’’—l. Blyth, Mdb. Chamber of Horrors.
Wonder if they both had eyeglasses and
dry dogs 1
I*’ C.
RE REVELATIONS AS TO TEMPER
ANCE DRINKS. j
Ist Citizen : “But I thought Jobson was a\i
teetotaller! ” *
2nd Citizen : “Don’t you believe it. Jobson
can do his little drop of raspberry vinegar
, now and then.”
A FEW SCATTERED ITEMS.


“ The women should organise and join
the Women’s Federal Political Association*.
Political t©A9 were found to be a splendid
. means for adding to the membership/'-?*
Candidate.
a,.-
MMMWhk. c, ' d-
, io sVedk in me presence
oj men! IcT —
CojldPfies^ttenng
i . „ / • 1
fS,T A. and Mr. Ramsay,
M.L A. s, aro responsible for the Bar-
maids Restriction Bill. It seeks to pro- j
vide that no woman 4 shall bo employed \
-an attending customers at or in any bar j
on the premises of any licensed vie- I
tualler. * * Argus.
w PR opnEisc.
Tottie, M.L.A. (1910).-“ By jove old
chappie in 1903, when you introduced
your bill for the abolition of barmaids
I was behind the bar ; now T “ a • 8 ’
jng in my Bill to abolish
*??> eroy °“ are ’ d ° Q t yOU kno ' ™
WjEUmi^BILL
vWVAMSSSrSTvBf
»> ; .
i ■
} ® gp-. ! y
has resolved to sink «?e fis 1 . Federatlon
-« forthcoming election, n 6Cal ls „ sue at the
ed liis freetrade n?!„ • t ' eorgo Rcid °Pen-
.—town d ° Pilgrimage at Williams-
u,, £ HE , factories ACT
prevent to
the cabinet' and torn;. g em P l °l cd in
' licenses, and to limk ® W }. ,bout
l^acestvhich^^-^
.wrsKsff«.':*sassr
j “5. No ’European workmen £oT>e
j S a £cd by Chinese employ era.*’—One con-
x dition under which striking Chinese
agreed to return to work.
'■•■•t-‘.-7 ,r -:••■•< ”•’ —■■■■ .
v^ v) / 4 -jV
cr ~ v£.rV clcda^G^ortCe
K-^-'€*' € * Sdlfe ,<WjCdeT It
*»- - i lKnk heS sl? °"^' V
v<Ko Jowii mein pjT" loop -^ards,*"
ACjNndm dn
- T A'ZfJPzir^
I>n i c- , “f J«e ”
*-» ‘'i' “ie • hfwafts b r r - md,( «
MOSTLY MELBOURNE.


A. SAUNDERS, SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER.
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVEKb,
Full Jewelled, J-plate,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £4lOB.
In Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £Blos.
10 guineas, £l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 8,4, 5, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Three-bar Gold Buckle BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two-bar Floral, With Diamond, Blue, or Red
Stone, BROOCH, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Twist Bar, with Bow and Heart, Gold BROOCH,
6s 6d ; with Amethyst Heart, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDIiRS.
Carved Gold BROOCH, with Opal Centre, 20s.
m
Ladies’ Cuib CHATTL\
Gold Snap Padlock, 255,
80s, 85sj £2 ss, £3 ; loct.,
£2los, £3, £4, £4 10s, £5,
£6, £7 10s, £B, £lO.
10s extra
for
Key Padlock.
All With Safety Chain.
Diamond BRACELET, 15 carat Gold, Three Pure Double-cat Diamonds,
with Safety Chain, £5 ; Diamond and Two Rubies, £4.
Peace-offering Bird JDub BROOCHES, with Enamelled Olive Leaf*
17s 6d ; 15 carat Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
» Q
mrmmsL
ms
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Two Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut,
' BROOCH, £2 : with Ruby, 80s-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Diamond Cut Amethyst
BROOCH, 20s.
e»
is
eifii
a
A. SAUNDERS.
Carsre P : 7,p, Three Bar Amethyst BROOCH,
b 25b •15 Carat Gold, Amethyst, 455.
A: SAUNDERS.
Very Pretty Gold BRACELET, Diamond, Red, or Bine Stones,
T £2 10s ; 15ct. Gold, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS. All the Styles. Priees accordmg
to width. 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s , 15ct. Gold,
£3, £4, £5, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Band Kama BRACELET, in ThreeBizes,2sß, 30a, a»
above, and 40s wider ; Lsct Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Pearl Set Twin Dove Birds
BROOCH, Red Stone Centre, 17b 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Two Bar Opal and Four Diamond
BROOCH, £'2 UK Very Effective.
Sil-
ver,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ADD ARTICLES POST FREE.
£5;SU ffi r GuffiNTEE 7 i> ' ■
@r
full size
a. SAUNDERS.
Three Bar Solid Gold Pearl and Red Stone Scroll
xuiec unAAnn 01«
Gold
M.
A. SAUNDERS.
Battleaxe and Shield BROOCH, Very Neat an
Effective, Pearl Set -with Gem, 20s.
A. SAJNDERS. _
Gold Mounted Tusk BROOCH Cham and Be
15s Sd. Very Effeotive.
Ke,,|
£3los.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Bull Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with
Pure Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £3
10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Keyless,
£5.
Free-
trade
Prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong Reliable WATERBTTRY WATCHES.
Long Wind. 8s 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model. G., 13s 6d ;
Extra Quality, f-plate, 18s 6d and £l.
Silver, 85s;
Gold, £2 15s. /r . .
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
M o
Ad-
vance.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER. '
" Perfect Timekeeper. Screw Cass,
dnst and water tight, 20s.
Solid Silver, 35s ; Donble Case, £2.
A Written Guarantee Given with Each
Watch.
20s.
20s.
Black or
Nickel,
£3 10s,
"F»
%
“ FLY BACK CHRONOMETERS.'
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel or Black,
Extra Quality, £2; £2 10s; same as above, £3 10s ;
Split Seconds, £3 LOs. Pure Solid Silver, as above,
£5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25,
and £3O. r. •
A written certificate for 2,3, 4, 5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Silver,
«£5-
Solid
Silver, 1
£2los
A. SAUNDEBS.
WALTHAM LEVEES.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
; ; £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 ss;
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2los,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
- :? .4 5. and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Gold
Cased,
M 4s-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal BAND
17s 6d ;
Three Opals, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold. 30s ;
Three Opals, £2.*
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Pure Double
Cut Diamond,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Three Red
or Blue stones,
Double Cut, 255.
a. SAUNDERS.
Band BINGS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d,
15s ; 15et. Gold,
20s, 255; 18et. Gold 255,
30s, 355, £2.
Any name free.
k. SAUNDERS.
18ct; Gold, Pure Double
Cut Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£3 10s £4, £4los;
Five Diamonds, £5.
Mt
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, Pure
Double Cut Diamond,
Pure Rubies
or Sapphire, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, Two Hearts,
Diamond and Ruby,
355;
Two Diamonds, £2 ss.
Latest Style.
Gold Mizpah
CHARM,
4s 6d.
Pearl Cluster
Heart, 15s 6d ;
■with Four
Diamond, Ruby,
or Sapphire, 255.
15ct. Gold Heart,
Double Gut
Diamond. 30s, 40s;
Ruby or Sapphire,
255.
Gold Envelope
CHARM, 12s 6d;
name free, with slip
inside, 15s 6d.
Good Friendship
Gold CHARM,
10s 6d ; with Erin-
Go-Bragh, 10s 6d.
Gold Amethyst and
Peal! Heart
CHARM. 10s 0d ;
larger, 103 and 20s.
Gent.’s Solid Gold Front STUDS, 8s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s ISd each.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-Made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERb,
9ct. S jlid Gold, os 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d each ;
15ct. Gold, 15s ; Extra Heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ;
Extra Heavy, 30s, 355, 40s.
duality of Gold and Finish First Class.
A. SAUNDERS.
Signet Plain RING, 9ot. Gold,
20s, 255; 15ct. Gold, 30s, 35s ;
ISet. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Hand-Made Solid Gold MUFFS,
9ofc. Solid Gold, £3, £3 10s; £4 ;
15ot. Gold, £4los, £5, £6, £6 10s,
to £lO. Price According to
Thickness and Quality of Gold.
Photo Pendants
New Gold Photo. CHABMS,
9 ot. 10s 6d, 15s, 20s ;
loot., 15s 6d, 255, 30s, 40s.
Gent.’s 9ct. Solid Gold Amethyst
BING, 25s ;
15ct. Solid Gold, £2, £2 10s.
9ct. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
308 ;15ct. Gold; £2 10s,
Extra Strong.
9ct. Gold Heart T INKS. 12s
6d ; 15ct. Gold, 255.
Beautifully Chased 9ot. Gold
Large Size Sleeve LINKS,
22s 6d; Plain, 21s; or with
initials nicely chased, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold £2 ;
LBct. ©old Buckle, Diamond
and Two Rubies or
Sapphires, £2 10s ;
Three Diamonds, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Diamond Spaiks
and Red-Stone,
15ct. Gold. 30s *
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
Font Diamonds,
with Three Rubies,
Sapphires, or Opals,
£3 10s, £4 10s, £5, £6.
Price to Size of
Diamonds.
18ot. Solid Gold
Two Hearts,
Opals, Three Pure
Double Cut
Diamonds, £4los.
Band RINGS,
with Name,
9ct. Solid Gold,
12s 6d, 15s;
15ct. Gold, 20s, 255;
18ct. Gold, 255, 30s,
355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Half Hoop,
Five Double Cut
Diamonds, BING, £5 >
Larger Diamonds,
£6, £7los, £B, £lO,
£lO, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold, Pearls and
Turquoise, 15s;
Other Styles, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
’Bot. Solid Golh
Diamond and T*o
Rubies or Support*
£2 los ; „
Three Diamonds, w
A. SAUNDERS,
9ct. Gold Double
Buckle, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 80s i
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 GEORGE-STREET
/(NEABLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION; 1
SYDNEY.


IS LIFE EASIER RIGHT,
OR WRONG
Andrew R.
P
T
T
N
S
o
I
N
9 Duke-street, East Bat main,
Sydney, July 11th, 1902.
Dear Sirs: My little son was trou-
bled with a very terrible cough for
about six months, and was so bad, that he
could neither eat nor sleep, and wasted away
to a mere skeleton. On trying Scott’s Emul-
sion, I found he improved from the first dose,
and liked it; it first eased his cough, then gave
him an appetite for food, restored sleep to
him, and finally fcsilt him up into real robust
health.
About two months ago my husband had a
severe attack of pneumonia. I induced him
to try Scott’s Emulsion, and the result in his
case can best be told in the words of the doctor
who attended him. He said : “ lie had never
in his experience as a medical man, seen a pa-
tient who was so bad get on so well and so
quickly.”
Faithfully yours,
(Signed) Mrs. Emma Pattinson
Messrs. Scott & Bovvne, Ltd.
483 Kent-street, Sydney.
IS LIFE EASIER RIGHT, OR
WRONG } Of course there is but one
answer to the question, and if you are a true
Australian you are doing your best to put
right what is wrong, especially if there is
illness in the house. Now the way to put it
right is by taking Scott’s Emulsion. One
who has seen the cure performed has just told
you so. We do not propose to dwell on the
symptoms of childhood’s troubles; they are
known to every mother; and every mother
seeking the right remedy sends at once for
Scott’s Emulsion. That is the only thing
you wish to know from us: the name of the
remedy—it is
SCOTT'S EMULSION* Out short
your child’s suffering ; restore sleep, appetite,
health and roSes to its cheeks, the process is
so easy by the use of Scott’s Emulsion. It has
cured everywhere else in the world and will
cure here. You have one precaution only to
take ; and that is to see that on the wrapper
of the bottle there is a picture of a man carry-
ing a big cod-fish; if that cod-fish is not there,
you are not getting what promise you—a
cure ! You can obtain a sample of Scott’s
Emulsion and the choicest children’s booklet
of the year, “A Bunch of Roses,” beautifully
printed in colors, by sending sd. to Scott &
Rowne, Ltd., 483 Kent Street, Sydney, and
mentioning this paper. All chemists sell
Scott’s Emulsion.
References throughout Great Britain and CohnUi *
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
R liefs. or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Ha,v Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explai atory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: Dr P. Harold H ayes’ Asthmatic Instiiutk,
Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A.
Missing Friends.
OSCAR WALKLING, formerly of Hanson South,
will hear something to his advantage by com-
municating at once with the undersigned. Father is
dead. Any information respecting above will be gladly
veeived by us. NOTCUTT & PURBRICK, Solicitors,
NVangaratta, Victoria.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your Anger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies au
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed ie no reasou for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per b-x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ; ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look lor the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyrigh*'.
Don’t shout”
mm
" 1 hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
"'How?' Oh some-
thingnew—Tho Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can’t see them
they're invisible, i wouldn’t
know I bad them in myself,
only that I hear all right.”
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts ol the
natural ear. Has no
m
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice. Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CHAI.HtgS. 229-231 Collins. SI., Help.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
•V*
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely remove!
AII Roughness, Redness
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents— Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwa.de & Co., Melbourne.
AMMUNITION
Can always be depended upon for being sure fire,
regular, and clean. It is sold by the principal
ironmongers throughout Australasia.
task
SPECIFY U.M.C. AMMUNITION and ACCEPT NO OTHER.
The VOLCANIC
AERATING
HACHINE
£22}
fc:
THE GENUINE
Automatic Valve Aerator
Used by a. 11 leading: Melbourne and
country Hotelkeepers.
Money Saving:! Time Saving!
No Skilled Labor required.
Produces sparkling Aerated Waters of the
Highest Quality.
Absolutely Best a d Simplest Machine
known.
A few reasons why the “Volcanic” Machine is superior to all others.
1. The Valve works automatically ; no other aerating machine of this class has an Automatic Valve.
2. The Water Cylinder holds 10 gals., and has two perforated partitions inside, causing the sparkle so much
appreciated. Weight, 801bs. Copper, thoroughly tinned inside and outside.
3. The gas tube holds 571bs. pure gas, being much larger than the tubes supplied with other plants.
4. The Turn-over Bottling Rack is made of the best metal. Thirty dozen per hour can be bottled with it.
5. The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine is the only one of its kind erected in the leading houses in Melbourne, including—
The Grand Hotel, Parer’s Crystal Caf6, Parer’s The Duke Caf6, Young and Jackson’s, J. Richardson’s Hotel,
Bourke-street, Evans’ Covent Garden Cafe, Lucas Caf6, Town Hall Hotel, Sheehan’s New Treasury Hotel,
Rubira’s Cafe, Victoria Coffee Palace, Hotel Metropole, Imperial, Lucas (Confectioner), Bath’s Hotel,
Britannia, Australian, A.N.A., City Arms, etc., etc. Also many others in the suburbs and the leading houses
in the country.
Price, £3O, with all accessories.
Smaller Machine on same principle, £2O.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine was the first of its kind introduced into Australasia. It
received the Gold Medal against all competitors at the Ballarat Exhibition.
Write for Pamphlets, containing Testimonials from people who have used the machines for years.'
W. JAME 3, Proprietor. Office: 101 Queen-st., Melbourne* Depot: 130 Cecil-st., South Melbourne
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Benger's Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record,
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
enger’s
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive. and Ligastiblo.
Bender’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t > find. My wife sounds
the praise of 1 Benger’s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.
The Maoriland Farmers’ Union.
Jeshurun waxed fat and kicked.
—Scripture, or thereabouts.
The spectre of the Farmers’ Union grows steadily
larger in Maoriland politics. A good few years
ago Ballance and Seddon and John M'Kenzie
came to the rescue of what was then about the
most hopeless class in Maoriland; —the big land-
grabbers’ serfs, and made men of them. By a
policy of discouraging big estates with a gradu-
ated land-tax, by resuming bloated properties and
cutting them up for settlement, by the btate Land
Bank, and in other ways, the Government built
up with marvellous rapidity a class of small
farmers tilling their o.vn land and living well on
the proceeds. They were very humble at first,
and very grateful, but the feeling did not last
long. The work of breaking up the big estates
isn’t half or quarter finished yet, but already the
first batches of small settlers have paid off their
liabilities and grown pleasantly affluent, and begin
to have a fine large bloated contempt for the
wage-earning class from which they came. They
talk considerably of the blessings of Freetrade,
the evils of Socialistic legislation (though it was
Socialistic legislation which made most of them
what they are), of the need for cheap labor, of the
“Free Breakfast Table” fetish, and similar
follies. Putting the case in as few words as
possible they sum up the two alternatives in this
wise
Protection means good wages all round (the farmer
will also have to pay good wages), and the growth of large
manufacturing towns, which will afford a convenient and
reliable market for the farmer’s produce.
Freetrade means the destruction of local manufac-
tures and the grievous diminution of the local market.
But the destruction of local manufactures will make
labor a drug in the market. The farmer, who is r already
affluent, will be able to get cheap labor in tHb general
poverty and scarcity of work, and that, he thinks, will
make him more affluent. He will export more to England
to make up for the decay of the local market. He will
be able to treat his employee like a hog instead of like a
human being, because in the general scarcity of work the
employee will become humble. And the decay of manu-
factures will weaken the democratic trades-union ele-
ment, and enable the farmer, vvho begins to feel like a
blastiferous Torj r , now that the State’s Socialistic policy
has supplied him with land and made him affluent, to
run the country on Tory lines.
It is a curious combination of circumstances that
the class which an advanced Socialistic policy
lifted out of the pit should promise, as soon as
its numbers increase a little more, to be the
new Tory, Freetrade, sweating, cheap labor
organisation of Maoriland. Yet, after all,
the result is only what might be ex-
pected. In spite of this blatant ingratitude there
is no reason why Maoriland should slacken for
an instant its policy of breaking up the big
estates and settling the people on the land. But
there is also the best of reasons why it should put
double and treble vigor into its Protective policy,
and build up its cities and its city industries with
extra energy. Though Maoriland’s manufactures
under heavy Protection are increasing faster than
those of any other State in Australasia, yet even
now it imports nearly £12,000,000 worth of goods
per annum, and if it shut out half those goods
there is room in the making of the other half for
a vast increase in manufactures and manufactur-
ing population. The small farmer is invaluable
in one sense ; he supplies the bone and sinew of
the community, and its best fighting material,
and it is from this class that come the
big men with the 46-inch chests who
save the race from physical deterioration.
Yet withal the small farmer has a tendency
to inourable Toryism. The city worker is the
backbone of democracy, the man who leads the
way in all progressive movements the political
brain of the community, and, as a rule, for keep-
ing the country in the right political crack,
one toiler in a city bone-mill is worth ten
farmers. The Victorian Alps are probably the
most beautiful and healthful scenery in Australia,
and the best place to grow a magnificent soldiery
and a sturdy race that will keep the nation alive,
yet for political regeneration and for devising
means for the saving of Victoria from stagnation
and barbarism, there is more hope among the
grimy streets and smellful boiling-down works of
Footscray than in all the Alps. Therefore it
would be well for Seddon to dodge warily between
two extremes, and to regard the Farmer’s Union
with respect as a splendid beast of burden, but
with suspicion otherwise.
0. H. Read, from Tassy’s humble islet: —
What Tasmania is suffering from mostly at present is
the silly old story, proclaimed from various places by
several kinds of sil'k-hatter, that this country was never
before in such a prosperous condition as at this
moment. Governor Havelock and Bishop Mercer, as
new-comers, may be excused for telling the old sweet
tale; they have merely copied the blessed daily press;
but when Tassy’s Grand Old Adye Douglas rises up and
shouts the ancient legend to the whispering gums it is
about time to protest. Adye is old enough to know, and
probably does know, that Tasmania, as a State, was never
in a worse condition than she is in now. She is simply tot-
tering along the brink of total destruction loaded up
with the stupendous debt of 9J millions, and her people
are too tired, or too mean, even to erect a brush fence on
the extreme edge to warn her off danger. One little
push would do the business. And perhaps if she went
over it wouldn’t be much of a disaster. She couldn’t
land in a worse condition, and would have probably got
rid of the awful burden before she reached the bottom.
But prosperous ! Tasmania cannot live without bringing
mutton from Victoria. She cannot even keep herself
in butter. She cannot grow enough spuds for ex-
port without filling up the bags with dirt. Her
rates of wages are shockingly low with the exception
of those on the West Coast, and even they are threatened
with curtailment. Her working hours are disgracefully
long, as a rule up to 84 hours per week ; and I have
known surveyors’ men worked up to 100 hours (Sunday
included) at 255. per work. And this not so very long
ago. They have a peculiar kind of patriotism in Tas-
mania. The haste to send her best men Boer-scalping,
and piano-burning, and Bible-robbing in_ a strange
land was frantically patriotic, but Tasmanian patriots
refuse to pay any kind of a tax to get their own country
out of the muck. Hundreds of politicians and other
imaginary people have sworn on the platform to succour
the “poor working man” when they “get in”; and
every man of them has committed rank perjury. . The
present mess between the Council and Assembly is the
most prosperous-looking business that has struck this
State for years, and I pray that it will be the means of
making a clean sweep of the House of Dodery and
doddering. If not, let the old island go over the brink.
Will somebody be kind enough to give Tassy a Good Big
Push?
«
About a street corner :
The S.M. Herald has been letting a contributor supply
it with some “ interesting information ” which will pro-
bably come in handy to its enemies some day. The
interesting informant, taking the north-east corner of
George and King streets for an example, shows “ the
appreciation of land values in Sydney during the past 80
years.” In 1828 2 roods 4 perches (228 link 3 to George-
street and 250 to King street) were sold for £63. In 1834
the corner, 50ft. to George-street and 86ft. to King-street,
with l-16th of the original area, went for £4650 ; and in
1852 Wm. Toosood bought the corner, 50ft. by 30ft., with
the old Golden Fleece Hotel, for £7500. Recently, to
round off the corner, the City Council bought 5 l-sth
square yards for £l5OO, which is at the rate of
£720,000 for the block purchased in 1823 for £63. And
William Henry Moore, that first holder back in 1823,’
might have sailed for England next day, and never seen
the land again, nor spent a ha’penny on it; but it would
be worth over half a million nevertheless. Yet when it
is suggested as a fair thing for the community to get back,
by land-tax, a small portion of the value which it has
itself created, there is a cry of spoliation and robbery ;
and the noise of people saying “ Hear, hear,” as Waddell
congratulates the State upon having a deficit of £250,000
for 12 months, and as he promises that taxes shall not be
increased in the future, is deafening.
♦
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
The trail of Bent and hard times is over
the Victorian railways and their works. _ The
roofs of the buildings, the office-walls, carriages,
and engines have a universal mantle of black dirt.
Amidst all this grime and microbes you can just
decipher the signal notices and warnings not to
expectorate indiscriminately on the preniises.
When washing-up day comes round Victoria will
only begin to realise that it is an expensive thing
to trust its railways to a man who has no other
qualifications than ability to cut down wages and
bellow rude things at officials.


SPECTACLES
m
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, r.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT,
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to-
ll. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
[ennon’s fjotel, Brisbane,
Has been Re-Furnished throughout and will be
conducted as a FIRST-CLASS HOUSE.; Its
central position recommends it to Commercial
Men and Families. Trams pass the door—a penny
section to any part of the City.
S. M. COLLINS, Proprietor.
w
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOB. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st, Sydney.
mm
0-0 TO TTTIT.T..
HiOIiANIi for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
u
D.C
L
H
K
S
V
w
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Matt a lasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 23, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
There is a motion on the notice paper of
N.S.W. Assembly that a Parliamentary Com-
mittee of ten members, including the Premier,
should be appointed to inquire into and report
upon—the dismissal of a messenger! What a
poor, pitiable, peddling business N.S.W. politics
have become!
A STRONG STATEMENT.
Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy
has been the means of saving more, human lives
and relieving more pain and suffering than any
other medicine in the world. There are thousands
of homes that always keep a bottle in their
medicine chests, for there is no telling when such
a medicine is wanted. Get a bottle to-day; it
may save a life. Sold everywhere at Is. 6d,*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Prohibition is running Maoriland into an
unlooked-for expense. Prohibited towns, which
used to take the corpse to the public-house, now
have to build morgues.
Already a party by the name of Robinson
suggests in Sydney Telegraph that the Australian
capital should be named Britannia. Would
“ Britannia Metal ” be as good ?
Bathurst didn’t get one vote in the ballot
for the site of the Federal capital; yet it was
about the only town that made any serious effort
to organise an agitation for the capital.
Said that Minister Bill Lyne boasts that
he can block any Federal capital site in the House
of Reps, but Tumut. The House will be pleased
to know that it is so completely in Bill’s pocket.
G. H. Reid has forgotten all about his
fiscal referendum proposal, and now tours the
country with the resurrected Dry Dog at his
heels; and the dog doesn’t smell any the better
for its temporary burial.
A definite statement in G. H. Reid’s
announcement of his policy
The bond of union amongst us is first the removal of
-present Government.
Exactly. Our joint and several office-hunger
keeps us together.
“We are not able,” said George Reid at
his first “Freetrade Campaign” meeting—“we
are not able to pay a secretary, as the other side
can, an enormous salary; we are unable to pay a
secretary at all.” Yet there are plenty of rich
importers left. Perhaps if the Freetrade leader
would try a little real Freetrade these importers
might then think his cause worth putting some
money into.
TAPERING OFF.
DR. CHAMBRRLAIN : "I don’t see how he is to get better while you let him keep swilling that stuff.”
NURSE BALFOUR: “ Yes, I know; but I must break the habit gradually, not all at once. He
used to drink it out of a bath not long since.”
Senator Downer’s retirement will give
Sudden Solomon—the man who created a Ministry
but rested on the seventh day and never resumed
—his longed-for chance to stand for the Senate.
Sudden S. suffers from the impression that the
Senate, being an Upper House, should be Tory and
a fit place for Solomon.
Walpole, the Employers’ Union agitator,
speaking at a Geelong (Vic.) political afternoon-
tea, said the Nicest should hold drawing-room
receptions all over the State, and make a point of
inviting, their friends, particularly the wives of
the thrifty. The spider’s parlor will be open to
the flies —until after next election.
The Victorian Government allowed it to get
abroad the other day that it was “considering”
the application of an old age pensioner that his
pension might be paid in another district. It
seems the . poor old derelict had formerly
“ batched ” in an abandoned boiler near a bush
township, but had moved away; now he wanted
to go back again, as the boiler was more home-
like. An ordinary Government would have
granted his request without any undue publicity,
but the thrifty Irvine-Shiels crowd probably
wanted to see if it couldn’t charge him a shilling
a week rent.
ic. members of Parliament do not take
Irvine’s compulsory resumption move very
seriously, With the various Bills before the House,
the Budget, and the general political muddle
into which Kyabram has thrown things, the
Upper House is not likely to have the pleasure of
firing that measure out for some time to come.
Queensland's new Morgan Ministry begins
well. The Cabinet is going to make the Central
sugar mills pay up arrears. Premier Morgan also
states that loans to local authorities must be
promptly repaid when due, as the policy of the
late Philp crowd in not troubling to collect repay-
ments is a menace to the whole Local Government
system.
Chemist Thomas hoists in Glen Innes
(N.S.W.) election the same faded tail, called
reduction of members, which Lee, Carruthers,
Garland, Wade, and others hoisted before him.
But until the Government can arrange to give the
ejected members a job at demolishing buildings it
seems as if there would never be any real energy
in the reduction movement.
Bit of solid sense from the annual report
of Adelaide Commissioner of Police:
During their (drunkards’) detention no attempt is made
to cure the disease from which these unfortunates are
suffering. From the economic point of view alone the
habitual drunkard should, during detention, receive
special medical treatment with a view to a permanent
cure of his malady, and legislation should be passed
whereby hopeless cases should be dealt with as lunatics
are at present.
There was a meeting of commercial men
the other day to consider how best the State’s
commercial agent in the North could be utilised to
serve N.S.W. interests, and the president of the
“Chamber of Commerce”—the importing soft-
goods crowd—solemnly suggested that the agent’s
duty should be to fossick out particulars as to
cheap Chinese goods which could be exported to
Australia to destroy local manufactures.
Sydney Telegraph assures the public that
Premier Irvine’s heartless conduct in cutting
down the Victorian old age pension fund to
£150,000 won’t deprive any deserving person of a
pension. Perhaps it won't. But when the
pension is cut down to ss. a week, the deserving
person might almost as well be deprived of it all.
Will Major Randal Carey try living on ss. for
just one week and see how far it will go ?
This is the sort of thing that Victoria,
prompted by the Kyabram Reformers, pays
T. Bent £lOOO a year to do :
Mr. Andrews : We know what’s in the Bill.
Mr. Bent: I know a lot more about it than some of you
that are doing all the talking.
Mr. Prendergast: You are not dealing with a deputa-
tion now.
Mr. Bent (loudly) : Boodle-doodle-do !
A far more efficient person could be obtained to
oall out “ Boodle-doodle-do ” for 30s. weekly.
In spite of Shiels’ windy rhetoric and his
vapid declaration that “the motion seemed to
Eoint to the necessity of getting rid of the State
rovernments altogether,” Toutcher, M.L.A.,
carried through Victorian Assembly by 25 votes
to 15 bis motion that King Ned be asked to con-
sider whether there is any necessity of appointing
State Excellencies in future. The Kyabram
‘ ‘ reformers ” voted against it, as they do against
every reform.
The “retrenching” Iceberg Government
is spending £1,000,000 over the great Waranga
Basin irrigation business, and it hasn’t even
authorised the levying of a water-rate on the
lands to be benefited in order to recoup the out-
lay. It is simply trusting to the landowners who
clamored for the stupendous job to pay for the
water used, which their class has so badly failed
to do elsewhere. The Government hasn’t even
secured a guarantee that they will use the water.
Statute Law Revision Bill, now before
N.S.W. Legislative Council, repeals no less than
88 obsolete and unnecessary Acts of Parliament —
legislative lumber which has accumulated since
1828; it also provides for the correction of several
errors in various Acts. In the Roman Empire
they had a fine system of entrusting to a front
rank lawyer, every 10 years or so, the task of
codifying the law —both the statute law and the
“common law,” as we should call it. As a result
the law was kept fairly clear and up to date. In
Australia amendments and repeals and modifica-
tions are allowed to accumulate until, in some
departments, the law simply can’t be elucidated.
A sensible system would provide for periodical
codification and revision of the statute law at
least.
No wonder Kyabram tosses in
its sleep. Even Tory M.L.A. Swin-
burne lately jeered at the Rodney
farmers before the A.N.A., telling
how these cadgers had admitted to
the Murray River Commission that
their lands had been increased in
value by irrigation from £2 to £4 an
acre, yet their shire secretary ad-
mitted that the municipal valuation,
which has no relation at all' to the
real value but is mostly a fake to
diminish taxation, had actually gone
down, so that they could plead
poverty and “dip their hands in an
unseemly grab in the State purse.”
Whereupon Premier Irvine snuffled
that in future the people who bene-
fited most by irrigation should at
least be made to pay a fair share
of the cost. In future ! Is it yet too
late to put a land-tax on the big
landholders of Rodney ? Prime Minister
Deakin sat and listened to this bunkum and was
too faint-hearted to breathe such words as “ land-
tax.”.
N.S.W. Public Service Board's new regu-
lations have been published. The regulations,
which run into some hundreds, contain nothing
new or startling, but the sequence of the rules
has been rudely changed, and the numbers altered.
So the poor drear devils who have learnt the old
lot off, parrot.-wise, and could quote you 67 or 972
VII. at a moment’s notice, have to start to learn
them all up again.
Carruthers, M.L.A., in S.M. Herald :
It was well to confirm the faith that they had by lessons
from other'countries.. They: ought. to! learn how it was
that Canadaqvas ; adding to its population by immigration,
between 100,000 and 200,000 per'annum. At the same
time, Australia, with all its boasted resources, was losing
thousands yearly.
Carruthers and the Herald ought to have learned
long ago that Canada has a heavy and scientific
Protectionist tariff, while Australia has a mere
apology or compromise tariff, thanks to Car-
ruthere’ political friends.
The Bulletin is waiting to see a daily
paper point out how British capital is being
driven away from the country by such affairs as
Chillagoe, Mt. Garnet, Stannary Hills, Smith’s
Creek, and the like. If foreign capital is so
necessary to develop our “magnificent natural
resources,” it would seem to the ordinary observer
that the crop of disasters North Queensland has
turned out in the last five years, all engineered by
strenuous anti-laborists, would scare away more,
foreign capital than 6000 hatters—let alone six.
The poor, mean, abject attitude in Aus-
tralian politics, which is the special heritage of
the foreign-trade, foreign-borrowing, foreign-title-
seeking party, was shown conspicuously in Aunt
Emma Pulsford’s interjection in the Senate on
the capital sites question :
It would have been advisable for the Government to
ask King Edward to appoint a commission to select a
site.
Australia, in the opinion of Mr. Pulsford, can do
nothing for itself—not even decide the site of its
capital city.
Max Hirsch, the Freetrade single-taxer,
had a bad time at Mildura (Vic.) recently. His
old statement that the community was taxed to
the extent of 3d. in the £ to enable Mildura to
grow currants, turned up in judgment against
him. Compulsory arbitration, he declared, was
dangerous to the workers as it removed from them
the right to strike. The politician, in the interests
of wobble, saddles the worker with strange joys.
He will be all broken up next because the workers
have been deprived of the inestimable privilege of
being hanged without trial.
With the usual anxiety to attend to every-
thing except its own business N.S.W. Assembly
allowed itself to be addressed the other night by
Dacey, M.L.A., about the claim of a cabman
named Hanna against the Australian Government.
Between discussing Bill’s dirt-money and the
claim of some cabman against the Federal Trea-
sury, appointing a Parliamentary Committee to sit
and take evidence re a proposed gratuity to a
Soliceman, and proposing to remonstrate with the
ultan about the row in Macedonia, the weary
hours are filled in somehow.
The Vic. Government was recently struck
by two violent farmers. One abused it at great
length for not supplying reading matter, in the
shape of the Agricultural Journal, gratis—that
is to say, at the expense of the city workers. The
other represented the settlers on Moe swamp.
The Government sold the Moe swamp at £3 an
acre. Then it was induced to drain the swamp at
the public expense, and thereby made the land
worth £lB an acre—a clear profit of £l5 an acre to
the settlers. And now the Moe farmers want a
water-supply at public expense.
The recently issued report of the British
Commission appointed to inquire into the state of
the Imperial Army prior to the Boer war con-
tains ope striking passage'. Referring to the
ammunition question the report reads :
Out of 151,000,000 rounds of small arms ammunition in
stock at the beginning of hostilities, 66,000,000 rounds
proved to be not available. This was Mark IV. The
bullets were expanding, and were forbidden under the
Hague Convention, but they were rejected less on this
ground than because, if used in hot weather and with a
dirty rifle, they were apt to disable the men who fired
them.
When there was even a rumor—a rumor that was
never backed up by any evidence—that the Boers
had used expanding bullets in some cases, the
shocked attitude of Britain was something con-
siderable. And now we are officially informed
that nearly half Britain’s own stock of ammuni-
tion was of the prohibited variety, and that in not
using it against the Boers Britain wasn’t influ-
enced so much by its solemn pledge, or by
motives of humanity, as by fear that the stuff
wouldn’t prove serviceable. No official seems in
the least degree ashamed at the hypocrisy of the
wretched business either.
THE FIGHT FOR A REPUTATION.
The leader of the Opposition clearly proved to Mr.
Irvine that the reduction in old age pensions arose from
his (Mr. Peacock’s) cutting the pension down from 10s. to
8s. a week.- Daily paper.
PEACOOK AND IRVINE ( simultaneously): “ I
downed him first.”
Queensland Labor Treasurer Kidston has
taken the first opportunity to announce that his
Government is not going to run the departments
on Owe’Sullivan lines—
As far as he could affect the matter, there would be no
political influence and no personal influence exercised by
the Minister or anyone else, either in the printing-office
or in any other department under the Treasurer. ... .
A Government institution was often blamed for not being
able to compete with private firms, but it was often on
account of interference. :
If the Morgan-Browne Ministry can keep up to
these honest principles, it will be the kind of
Ministry Queensland has been seeking in vain for
many years.
The sturdy, self-reliant Victorian farmer,
as embodied in the Loddon United Waterworks
Trust, button-holed Premier Irvine lately, and
casually mentioned that it would like to be
relieved of £4OOO of its present £19,000 liabilities
to the State. In December, ’99, this blessed
Loddon Trust was relieved of £1717 of its £21,671
capital liability, and £8846 of its £9245 interest
liability, and it then solemnly promised to go
straight for the future. And since then it has only
struck one rate —which was not enforced—and,
from sheer refusal to attempt to pay its liabilities,
it has accumulated a further interest debt of
£3353. It was this that it wanted wiped out.
Irvine didn’t say that these cheeky deputationists
were attempting to practise plain repudiation,
mixed with fraudulent insolvency, or that they
were a gang of plunderers with less sense of
decency or shame than an habitual pickpocket—
he merely remarked that he could not understand
it, and that he would neither remit nor suspend
their liabilities ; also he threatened to presently
put in a receiver to see if lie couldn’t inculcate a
little common honesty, though he would hold over
this latter action for six months. He wasn’t by
any means as severe as he might have been, but
he at least sent one gang of cadging, swindling
farmers down the Treasury steps somewhat
hurriedly.
KANAKAS IN QUEENSLAND.
“Mr. John W. Anderson, of Warrnambool, Victoria,
gave an interesting account of a recent visit paid by him
to the sugar-growing districts in Queensland. He says
that from, say, 12O worth of sugar produced, the black
laborer receives £1 10s., and this small amount he does
not take back to his island, where it would be of no use,
but buys merchandise from the storekeepers.” —Adelaide
paper.
It is strongly to the interest of the Fede-
ral Government that the capital site question
should be settled this session. If it is. left in
doubt, the “ conspiracy against N.S.W.” cry of
the silly State-frights party in N.S.W. will be
much aided.


Paling’s
Victor I.
Piano
(Patented).
Overdamper check
action, full iron
frame, trichord,
ivory keys, best
burr walnut case,
3 pedals.
One of the grand-
est instruments for
wear ever imported.
Specially made to
our order, of the
best materials, in
up-to date Factories.
Catalogues Free.
Sold on Easy Terms.
*
Old Pianos taken in
exchange and full value
allowed.
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
A Fine
Violin
£1 111 : 6
I
m
©*e 90 STUDENT’S ••
MODEL.
Complete witH Bow,
Case, Resin and Set
of Extra Strings.
Post Free to any
town in N.S.W.
£1 s 11 : O.
Write for Handsome
illustrated catalogue
post free.
PALING’S
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
No
Better
Piano
Can be imported and
sold in Australia than
Steinwaj-
Piano.
It is the standard
Piano of the world,
and used by artists
of the highest repu-
tation who endorse
it as being
Best
and most scientific
Piano constructed.
Sold on Easy Terms.
Send for Catalogues.
Old Pianos taken in
exchange and full value
allowed.
Paling^s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
VITADATIO
THE GREAT HERBAL REMEDY.
HYDATIDS AGAIN CONQUERED.
TWELVE YEARS A SUFFERER.
ANOTHER WONDERFUL CURE.
READ WHAT THE PEOPLE SAY ABOUT VITADATIO.
213 Dorcas-St., South Melbourne.
, May 10, 1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER, Agent for Vitadatio.
Dear Sir, —1 have much pleasure in giving my testimony
of what Vitadatio has done for me. I was taken ill two
.years ago last November with jaundice. I was then
living at Kensington, and the doctor who was attending
me discovered that- I was suffering from Hydatids. He
brought me through that illness, but after twelve months
I was again taken bad, suffering terrible agony at times,
and a large lump formed in my stomach, which the doctor
said was hydatids again, and that I would have to undergo
an operation ; but while arrangements were being made
I heard of your wonderful medicine. After taking one
bottle, which made me very ill, I threw up three (3) gall
stones. I then continued the medicine and passed 14
more. While taking the medicine I also passed hydatids.
I took nineteen bottles of Vitadatio, and now I believe I
am thoroughly cured of both hydatids and gall stones,
and feel better and stronger than I have done for years,
wishing you every success with your wonderful medicine,
I am, yours very gratefully,
Mrs. H. WEBSTER.
P.S.—You are at perfect liberty to make what use you
like of this. My cure took plaice twelve months ago.
Anybody wishing to see the gall stones can see them at
45 and 47 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
AFTER THREE YEARS
riRS. WEBSTER
VOLUNTARILY TESTIFIES
TO THE
PERMANENCY OF HER CURE
.. . BY
VITADATIO.
213 Doreas-street,
South Melbourne,
c . May 28th, 1901.
Dear Sir.
It is now three years since I have been cured of
Hydatids and Gall Stones, by WEBBER’S VITADATIO
and I beg to state that I have had no return of either
complaint since that time, and have been in the very best
of health, in fact life is quite a pleasure to what it used
to be, as I have been a very great sufferer. I hand you
this as a proof of the permanency of my cure.
Yours' faithfully,
w , ... , ~ HARRIET WEBSTER.
We can testify to the truth of the above statement.
CHARLES FRANZ.
mv- . , «.. AGNES FRANZ.
54 Napier-street, Fitzroy.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
MF««uc"v e r? f T , A™ lc i ,^.is 5/6 alld 3 6 P er Dottle.
ILSSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Conuell-street, Sidney,
Sole Agents N.S.W*
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
m
jj
i
ntJlli
II
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late IHPERIAL),
Corner of GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.
BRISBANE
This Elastic Truss
F 7?, 'TTaj
asere*
'Him
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is something better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENY ER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (oj.p. Hunter St.).
Ann at Cor. Swanston and Eonydnlc Sts., Melbourne
Beware of a slight chill . It often
leads to a severe Cold on the Chest,
Cough and Chest Complaints.
BEWARE
HAYMAN’S BALSAM used Promptly will
Relieve and Cure. Pleasant to take.
Invaluable in the Nursery.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
m
m
m
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. V KEN ON CO
Co HUNTER ST.. SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
appiied method which will be sent post
free on mentioning this paper.
The representative book of Australian humor—
STEELE RUDD’S
“ On Our Selection.”
THE CALLAGHAN ROOT
FOR
MEN
:>
m
RIGHT AWAY
POST
AND
DUTY
i
FREE i
<
EXCEPT W.A. j
FOR !
23/6
IN TAN,
24/61
Fine French Calf Stylish made-
to-order appearance,——NO RISK
IN FIT, long wear a certainty.
Boots Exchanged or money refunded.
You may buy boots at lower prices, but you cannot get the same amount of
gTvE SATISFACTION 8 money ' Tilese boots are honestly made—
wear from
—MADE
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. „ £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street;'
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-streec.
Fremantle & Albany Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
■LOWEST INT REST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3NT.S,"W-.
(flint depieteOjH|.Co M E^.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Gknkral Manager.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOB
Mul nal Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Bon. J F. Bohns, Chairman ; Hon. O. J. Roberts
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Brock Smith, Esq., M.H.U.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, .£2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305 assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses-eouitably distributed.
Head Office: -■
lIP & 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
I tank of Nc i W So /it fi TV a t es.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,315,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. _ 5,315,000 0 0
Directors :
Hon. Ciias. K. Mackkllar, M.L.C., PresiderC.
The Hon. Sir Normand MaoLaiirin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator Jamks Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L O.
IVif,Liam Alfred (Jotter, ESq. '* ‘
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Utiier, Esq
London Office-Old Broad Street.
Witli Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji ; and Agencies and Co 1 respondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
hanking business.
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circular
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet Size Pliutos.,
55., P. 0.0. or stamps.
S. RHCKNAjEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany
: . '' • i
Legal Notice.
WHEREAS by an order dated the 10th day
of August 1903 of the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice (Mr. Justice Keke-
vvich) in an action intituled re MARY CRIPPS
deceased, Prowse v. Whitehorn 1903.—C 2068
the following enquiry, was directed to be made
viz. An enquiry whether JOSEPH STEEL
named in the Will of the said Mary Cripps late of
Burcot in the parish of Dorchester in the County
of Oxfoi’d Spinster was living or dead and if dead
when he died and if he died subsequent to the
death of the said Mary Cripps (13 November 1878)
who is his legal personal representative. Notice
is hereby given that the said Joseph Steel or if he
died after the death of the said Mary Cripps his
legal personal representative are hereby required
on or before the 7th day of JANUARY 1904 to
come in either in person or by their Solicitors and
prove their claims at the Chambers of Mr. Justice
Kekewieh and Mr. Justice Joyce Royal Courts of
Justice Strand London England or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said order. THURSDAY the
14th day of JANUARY 1904 at 12 o’clock noon
is appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon
the said claims. Note. It is alleged that the
said Joseph Steel left England for Australia in
May 1865 and that he was in 1868 in the neigh-
bourhood of the Blue Mountains, Australia.
Dated this 28th day of August one thousand
nine hundred and three.
J, C, FOX,
V • • Master.
' HERBERT M. DAVIS,
34 and 36 Gresham Street,
London.
Agent for
HEDGES & MARSHALL,
Wallingford, England,
Solicitors.
SUpplng.
3NJ. ID. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHF.R LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and.BATAVIA.
S.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 28th OCTOBER.
8.8. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 9th DECEMBER.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about 20th NOVEMBER,
SUEVIO, PERSIC, RUNIC, and MEDIC
to follow.
FARES-Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets , Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoonsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rnHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
O CEA.KTIO
SXE A MI S EC I E»
A. AND AT LINE.
COMPA.3XT3T.
THE
EAST
MAIL
LINE.
Sydney to Auckland .. .. .. 3£ days.
Auckland to Pago Pago .. .. .. 4 days.
Samoa to Fanning Island .. .. ; 4 days.
Fanning Island to Honolulu .. .. 2& days!
Honolulu to San Francisco .. .. days!
Overland to New York .. .. .. 4 days!
New York to London .. .. .. 6 days!
Passengers can break the journey en route.
m
Elaborately appointed Staterooms for occupancy of not more than TWO Passengers.
No Steamers on the Pacific compare with our ‘‘ Sister Ships,” Sierra, Sonoma, Ventura. The NEWEST, LARGEST
independent B Engines o only steamers having twin-sorews with two sets of
t) E S T I N ATI C N AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-OLASS LINE.
Send foi Illustrated Matter, including New Publication, “If Not, Why Not?” Post Free, 3d.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, Greorg'e Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by u ew
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders ’6oo|ooo
Total Capital
£2,500,000
The
Royal Queensland.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £457 o u
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS. '. 175)997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) '60,000
£693,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, ICdwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Brunches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
• Throughout the. World.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
- Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. \V. M kicks, M.L.C. (Gibbs
Bright & Co.), Hon. John Skk, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns!
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. J lessor, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Glynk ; Adelaide, \V. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquiiar J. J.ALLEN, GeneralMatfager for Australia
l3l Pitt St., SYDNEV.
The trustees! executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne. ’
CAPITAL PAID-UP J 90.000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq *
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BOItIIOWHIAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
The Bank of ||ortli Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp*Co. Ltd )
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250 000 ... £350,000
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. a. ELDT?,IDGE & GO-,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
64
m
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
Hand Head Noises, no matter of
Jhow long standing. Are the same
* to the ears as glasses are to the
ej'es. Invisible. Comfortable.
W o-n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Free for Asking-.
WRITE to us ami we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for (lie asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and'body will
vanish like magic, and you wijL be filled with .energy,
strength and ambition once in we. Posted free. Write
to Armand Goitrauu, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
F O FSTe I G- TVT P S.
Z't {}
* r
%'■
mimvp-jr
f'H RAP SETS.-8 Turkey, 6d ;
K - J 47 Spain. Is fid ; 6 British
Guiana, fid ; 8 Egypt-, 6U ; 10 Bul-
garia, fid; 11 Canada, fid: 15
Roumania,6d; fi United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Rica, 4d ; 3 Victoria, ISSO issue,
7s fid ; 4 Sudan, 9d ; 20 Brazil.
Is ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal, fid,
New Catalogue of Stamps, < Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 345 Little Col ins st., Melbourne.
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
MOANA, NOVEMBER 2,
The Most Popular Steamer
on the Pacific.
NEXT SAILINGS—
NOVEMBER 30, DECEMBER 28.
Cheapest Route to America
and London.
Via Brisbane or Via
New Zealand.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application .
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sj’dney.
WM.. STITT, General Passengei Agent. -
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
nodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
CELLULAR
SHIRTS and
UNDERWEAR.
Ladies' and Gentlemen's Garments.
A Positive Safeguard Against Chills.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LTST, PATTERNS, Etc.
POST FREF.
D. BRAHASVI ik CO ,
Cellular Outfitters,
SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.YV.—
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDKEY.
EWGINEP.aASV’S MASTER KEY. -All subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 3(15 Pages, 106 Illustrations •
6s. 6(1. posted, By L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Comulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER. SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS, !
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE, f
■Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Gabo,
Friday, Oct. 23, at 5 p.m.
S.S. Wollowra, October 24,
at 10 a.m.
S.S. Bulfarra, October 28,
at 10 a.m.
(Through to Wyndham).
BRISBANE => ~ ■ \ !
MACKAY I
TOWNSVILLE fj
And Ports North toOalrns 'l
S.S. Innamincka, Oct. 24.
at Noon.
S.S. Gabo, October 31.
S.S. Allinga, November 6.
Jiest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-Stnte Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at'the Company's Office. '
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P And COMPANY’S
■ V,B ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
_ on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
♦Leaving Wednesday instead of Saturday on account
of the Melbourne races.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON —Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto ' Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
7
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract withtha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PQRT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows: -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,.
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistant -
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Officer
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“e. and a.” line.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
E VERY 'CON VENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing- two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large,"cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe Has Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Kerned, for COUGHS, COLDS,
! ASTHMA,/BKONOHITU
DLABBHfIEA, tears on
i the Government Stamp the narno
oi the Inventor— *
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28 1895, says:
“If I were asked which .single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say C/HLORODYNK. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments furuii
its best recommendation.”
LADIES 1
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN-
Tel, 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches .at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants <en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
680-682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price ss.


Australian Mutual Provident
Established 1849. p or pjfe Assurance on the Mutt
Society
Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
?? eh ® ld ant * ®- p - (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
tv . cent '*°‘ the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f ne.
itn eciors— riiOMAs Littlejohn Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
r-sq. , senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. : F. E. Winciicombe, Esq., M.P.
TTT , Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
::
■I
™ B CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
is equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME.
THOUSANDS GLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT!
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
heing used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30 - to 84/-.
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet —FREE.
(Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd. (Dept. 8)
.(Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
Va
There's SECURITY in
ARTERS
V Absolutely OIITG
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
iFURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter’s
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30 ;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.— Visitors oply pay for wbat tbey actually fraVc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments:
BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6S. per day
ENGAGE ROOMS AT
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
.Ltd,
Lapidaries ....
Gem Merchants and ♦ .
Manufacturing Jewellers
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
6
7
m
mm
m
No. X.—3 Fine Brilliant Diamonds £4O, smaller to £10; with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamonds. £25.
No. 2.-5 Fine Brilliant Diamonds from £l2 to £5O ; 2 Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires, £lO to £26.
No. 3.-3 Fine Opals and 2 Brilliant Diamonds, £9 ; 3 Fine Pearls
and 2 Diamonds, £l2.
No. 4.—1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
No. 5.-3 Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting, £lO to £l6.
No. 6.-3 Queensland White Topazes and 2 Queens'aud llubies £6.
No. 7.—1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £5 ; 1
Queensland Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s.
No. B.—l Fine Pearl and Diamond Cluster, £2B; 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
No. 9.—1 Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubies, £4 10s.
No. 10.—1 Opal and Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
No. 11.—2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
No. 12.—1 Queensland White Topaz (as brilliant as the
Diamond), £4.
No. 13.—Marquise of Brilliant Diamonds, £lB to £3O.
13 |
12
Send for Booklet on “The Gem
Products of Queensland.”
WE HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OF UNSET GEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 100,000 GEMS ON HAND.
m
JMC SUFI^E
from Weak Nerves, Impure Blood, the Kidneys, Rheumatism, the Spine and Bladder,
WOMEN WHO WASTE AWAY
from Anaemia, Poverty of Blood, Leucorrhoea,
and Internal Complaints, &c., &c.,
A CHAT WITH YOU. DON’T LOSE HEART! DON’T DESPAIR! DON’T DIE!
err
Have Cured Mar.y Thousands. They have held their own against all comers for over 20 years,
and have never been known to fail. THEY WILL CURE YOU.
130 YOU KNOW . . .
That Herr Rassmusseu possesses the most wonderful Specific Remedies for the
Blood and Nerves?
That Herr Rassmussen guarantees his Alfaline Herbal Remedies to Cure ?
DO YOU KNOW . . .
That Herr Rassmussen s Remedies are purely Herbal, and contain no mercurv or any
other mineral poisons ? j j
That Herr Rassmussen has Thousands of Testimonials ’
*
DO YOU KNOW . . , Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies Never Fail to Cure?
ALFALINE VITALITY NERVE PILLS.
This remedy can be depended on to cure all kinds of Nervons Diseases, Debility, Vital
Weakness, Despondency, Melancholia, Specks before the Eyes, Want of Memory, Bash-
fulness, and entirely stop the Waste from the System which is so weakening to the
Spine, Brain and Nerves. It entirely builds up and restores a broken-down Nervous
System. Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d.; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.; Smaller Boxes
at 12s. and 6s. each. Posted unobserved.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a guaranteed Cure for the worst forms of Blood Diseases, no matter how caused or
of how long standing, whether secondary or any other stage. This remedy completely
purifies, cleans and purges the Blood of all kinds of Impurities, and leaves the system
as pure as a new-born baby. It contains no Mercury, like all other remedies do used
for the Blood and Skin, and will entirely Cure all Diseases of the Skin and Blood,
Gravel and Stones in the Bladder, and all complaints of the Urinary passage. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.; Smaller Boxes at 12s. and 6s. each.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Never fail to Cure all forms of Amsemia, and entirely Cure and Prevent the most fear-
ful Wasting Diseases, which defy all other forms of treatment. They are particularly
effective in the treatment of all kinds of Internal Female Complaints, and being entirely
harmless, and most wonderfully effective for strengthening and thickening the Blood and
building up the Nerves. Course, ‘23s. 6d.j Boxes, 12s. and Gs.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS.
i Th m‘ S ( “ b *° lutel y l>fti remedy for Constipation, Indigestion, Wind, Heart-
burn, Flatulence, and all complaints of the Liver and Kidneys. Boxes, Is.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS
Cure Rheumatism, Gout and Sciatica. Boxes,. 12s, 6s. and 3s.
ALFALINE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS
Will Cure Asthma and Cough, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all Lung and Chest troubles
Courses, 235. 6d.; Boxes, 6s. ■
ALFALINE PILE POWDERS, a won-
derful remedy for completely ( radicating
both Internal and External Blind and
Bleeding Piles. Gives instant relief.
ALFALINE CORN CURE. Is.
ALFALINE FAT-REDUCING POW-
DER is entirely harmless, and is the
best fat-reducing powder in the world.
Boxes, 6s. and 3s.
ALFALINE OINTMENT. Is.
ALFALINE EMBROCATION, excel-
lent for Cyclists, Cure Stiff Joints, Gout,
and Chapped Skin. Bottles, Is.
ALFALINE HEADACHE TABLETS.
Instantaneous and permanent cure. Is.
ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER.
Ees tores the Hair, 6s.
ALFALINE EUCALYPTUS. Bottles,is.
ALFALINE WORM TABLETS. Is.
COMPLEXION BEAUTBFIER. 60;35.
BOOK POSTED FREE.—A Valuable Book containing Valuable Advice for all Complaints Posted Free and Unobserved.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALITY.
All correspondence will be held strictly confidential. Remedies will be
therefore entirely unobserved, both from the Head Office and Agencies.
posted in plain cover, and
Make Cheques and Money
Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN. Register Setters containing Money, and when Special Advice is required, address letters as follows
HERR RASSIVi US SEN’S Heed Offices 547 G©orgo st HJ Sydney
Herr Ilassmnssen’s Alfaline Herbal Rennies can also'be obtained forom his Agencies, as follows
3E& HI SIB .A. IKT 3E3 s 808 C& “CJ JES JE3 H&F S T 3ES, 3E3 3E5 T?.
ADELAIDE s 15 PULTENEY ST,
W.A.: PERTH, 481 HAY ST.
KALGOORLIE : 111 HANNAN ST,
N. 2. ■ 91
QUAY, WELLINGTON.
• . , . is. ~ • • :*• ... >. • '


THOSE IN
THE KNOW
DRINK
$v c
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Fills
stand alone as the best remedy for the cure of all
disorders arising from imperfect digestion. They
get at the cause where other so-called remedies
give only temporary relief, leaving the system
in worse condition than before. They touch the
liver and make the stomach clean and pure,
assisting the_ nutritive and digestive organs in
properly assimilating the food. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier and
a. permanent and positive cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.
Packed in amber bottles, and sold throughout
Australasia.*
The great art of imitation. A Melbourne
woman recently poured oil over herself and set
herself on fire after losing all her money pony
racing. A Brisbane woman straightway improved
on the horror. She lashed herself to a post with
her feet in a tub of firewood, poured kerosene over
herself and over the firewood, and then applied a
match. When a policeman arrived at the blaze
he found a perfect representation of an ancient
martyr who had perished at the stake. she was
quite dead. The Melbourne woman was less
fortunate ; she lingered many days.
W. N. Willis, M.L.A., as a land agent,
needs no black-tracker to guide him through the
devious paths of the Land Acts. He fights all his
cases, and the harder the task the better he likes
it, and wins all the time. 21 Bligh-street.*
When The Bulletin went to press the air
was filled with language by a small knot of Sydney
parochialists who allege
(1) That N.S.W. should have the sole right to select the
capital of all Australia, the other States paying most of
the bill.
(2) That though the Constitution says that the area of
Federal territory shall be anything over 100 square miles
yet to ask for anything over 100 square miles is robbery.
(3) That though the Constitution says that the capital"
shall be any distance exceeding 100 miles from Sydney,
to put it more than 100 miles from Sydney is brigandage.
(4) That though it was N.S.W.’s own George Reid who
got the 100 miles limit and the 100 square miles minimum
inserted in the Constitution, the business is somehow “ a
conspiracy of the necessitous States.”
(5) That N.S.W. should cut the painter and go away
and federate by itself.
Piles and their Cure.— The pamphlet, by
Albert Sharp, of Sydney, entitled, “Piles and
How to Cure Them,” without operation, by the
“ Cannalin ” treatment, sent free from 257
George-st., Sydney. Cannalin Ointment (the
quickest relief known), by post Is. 7d.*
“Steele Rudd’s” second book, “Our New
Selection ! ” —will be ready before Christmas.
Better than the first book, if possible ; with many
illustrations.
mm
" TRY IT IN YOUR BATH. ■
SCRUBB’S “ST AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Kemoves Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
D . ±1 „ , Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
m
RESCH’S SELECT ST
LAGER
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
This year’s Caulfield Cup was practically the
fastest on record, although the time (2.35 i) had been
equalled in 1901, when Wakeful tried to run away with
the race and was beaten half-a-head in the last stride by
big Hymettus. The pace-making this time was shared
by Billali, then T.M.S., and then The Idler, and finally
Sweet Nell, who got a slight lead at the distance post and
won by half a length. The pretty little filly started with
the advantage of the inside berth, and was actually the
first, as well as the last, to show in front of the field.
From the beginning to the end of the struggle she was
always pretty near the rails, and never further back than
third in the order of running. She had more than the
ordinary amount of luck which is essential to victory in a
Caulfield Cup. To say this is not to deny her dash and
courage. Nevertheless, the admirers of Sweet Nell must
admit that in being one of the insiders, and keeping her
place in the forefront of the field, she got a long pull over
the animals that started on the outside and had to make
their way through the mob all the time. On a rough
calculation, Sweet Nell must have travelled a shorter dis-
tance by a dogen lengths in winning the Caulfield Cup
than some of the outside unfortunates travelled in
losing it.
* * * *
Nearly every year one is struck by the fact that
the slow beginners have positively no chance of winning
the mile-and-a-half Cup race at Caulfield. A trier that
gets off badly may contrive to get through a big field of
horses if most of them are non-triers, but when they are
all goltig hell-for-leather a fellow that starts in the rear is
a forlorn hope. Stamina is useless in such a race to the
anljnals that need warming-up to their work. Victory is
for the sprinter that stays longest. Sweet Nell was that
sprinter on Saturday.
* * * *
Apart from the Ballarat filly, Ibex, T.M.S., Air
Motor, Billali, The Idler, Rhapsody, Lieutenant Bill, St.
Modail and Flagship were the only possible winners of
the Cup as the race was run. The best of the others had
lost more ground in the first mile than they could recover
in the next half-mile. Two or three of them, notably St.
Ambrose, did gain a few lengths on the far-off leaders,
also Flagship and Rhapsody travelled, perhaps, a little
faster than Sweet Nell and The Idler in the final run
home, bub the race by that time had resolved
itself Into a match between the black gelding
and Rupert Clarke’s lady representative. Undoubtedly
Turner, on The Idler, had been too eager to get to the
front. He rushed his mount, and continued to rush it
until he was more than a length ahead of everything
rounding the turn for home. Then he appeared to have
the trick in hand, for he was crouching confidently over
The Idler’s neck, with his eyes turned to Sweet Nell.
Her effort had yet to be made. Richardson shook the
filly up for her run. Turner got visibly flustered on dis-
covering that he was losing his lead ; he sat up to ride
The Idler—to “lift” him. But Nell’s run was too long
and lively for the horse. Ilalf-an-hour later every factory
girl in Melbourne was happy. They had unanimously
put a shilling or two on the popular name.
» * » *
After the Caulfield Cup it became quite
commonly known that The Idler’s surprising improve-
ment on his Toorak Handicap “form” admitted of
satisfactory explanation. The gelding Carried a lot of
stable money on the previous Saturday, but was hustled
into an awkward position directly after the barrier rose,
and a cut from the jockey’s whip chanced to hurt him in
his tenderest feelings, sufficiently to account for his poor
performance.
♦ » » •
Flagship is a really remarkable instance of
honorable failure in Caulfield Cups. As a 4-year-old the
horse, carrying bottom weight, finished third to Hymettus
and Wakeful; last year he ran a good second (8.1) to
Lieutenant Bill; this time he was third again (8.7). Not
quite speedy enough to win a Caulfield Cup, the old
battier has thusfar failed to stay the last Jmile of a
Melbourne Cup.
* * » •
Looking at the Caulfield “form” of the Sydney
horses that ran in the Metrop. and other handicaps at the
A.J.C. meeting, one is bound to reckon them a lot of
second-raters. When they are counted out of it the forth-
coming Melbourne Cup is limited, “ on paper,” to a select
few of the locally-owned nags, plus Abundance, Postillion,
and the S.A. champion, Sojourner. The Derby—with
Belah under suspicion—is apparently a gift for Scobie’s
stable ; in fact, the Ballarat trainer is likely to supply
winner and runner-up. Both Derby and Cup will be
quiet betting races this year. The remarkable strength
of Scobie’s team frightens Ikey Mo., and the mystery
that hangs around the intentions of the stable
is a caution to all wise punters. There is a doubt
as to whether Hauturier, at present unpenalised,
will go for the Derby ; victory in the Derby would add
111 b. to his Cup weight. The possibility, or otherwise, of
getting Emir fit for a Cup struggle, even if he will stand
a fairly good preparation for the Derby, is another matter
of vexed opinion. Will F.J.A. compete against Sweet
Nell in the Derby ? His Toorak Handicap penalty has
already brought F.J.A.’s Cup weight up to the standard
appointed for Derby winners; but, then, he and Sweet
Nell are in the same ownership. United States is said to
be coming on nicely, and that well-bred 5-year-old, who
hasn’t won a race for three .years, may prove the best of
Mr. Rupert Clarke’s lot for the Cup, after all. Ikey Mo
is pretty much in the dark concerning the all-important
Ballarat horses, as he was in Clean Sweep’s year. Market
quotations for the present mean very little.
* * * *
St. Ambrose has a long-price chance for the
Cup. The imported son of St. Simon made a respectable
finish in the Caulfield Cup, after getting away last of
everything on the extreme outside of the field. He will
have 71b. less to carry next Tuesday week, and should be
a better-conditioned madcap than he was last Saturday.
Three days earlier St. Ambrose had concluded his train
journey to Flemington by falling backwards out of his
box and hurting himself somewhat. Apparently there
was no internal injury, but the backward somersault
must have upset the thoughtless beast.
* * * *
Re the Caulfield Cup. It is printed in one or
two places that some Noses will have to ask for time.
Why ? There has never been a better betting race in the
Cup’s history. At least a dozen appeared w'ell in, and
were heavily invested upon, while all 25 starters had
backers. Tatterdemalion was once favorite, then
Billali, Ibex, Sweet Nell, and Nothos, and, last of all,
Elderslie, with Air Motor close unon him. Up to his
Win of Coongy Handicap, punters’generally supported
Elderslie solely because of money invested by stable,
for in public Elderslie had done nothing hair-raising.
Last month at V.A.T.C. meet, backed down to 6 to 4, for
Warriston Welter he couldn’t get nearer than fifth. It
isn’t the first time The Idler, after being well bottled up,
has failed his crowd, and there are few, outside those who
dropped their coin, that weep because the “moral”
didn’t come off. After shaping poorly in Toorak Han-
dicap Saturday week, he was supported again to win
between TSCOO and £lO,OOO. Last year The Idler was an
eleventh hour sensation of the betting, but he couldn’t
see the trip out. Party behind T.M.S. was confident
and, ’tis said, owner “Mr. Marvel” promised all and
sundry a high old time if he won.
* *. * •
Of £9OOO prize-money given away in connection
with Caulfield Cup meet, Ballarat trainer Scobie’s stable
scoops £4950, which is whacked among five owners (for
whom he trains) as follows Rupert Clarke, £3500:
R. G. Casey, £lOOO ; J Catto, £300; W. Bailey, £135 ; and
E. E. Clarke, £l5.
* * *
Rider (“Dingo ” Richardson) of Caulfield Cup
winner Sweet Nell, has a remarkable record. Atop of
many other things he piloted Melbourne, Sydney, Austra-
lian, and Tattersall’s Cup winners Clean Sweep, San
Fran, Great Scot and Hoop Iron. Richardson is one of
Randwick trainer Tom Payten’s apprentices, not yet
19, and still able to scale under 7st. Hence it’s likely
that, bar accidents, he’ll add materially to his already
long list of performances. Interesting that Sweet Nell
is the first of her sex to win Caulfield Cup since Grace
Darling scored 18 years ago, and hers is the only instance
of Guineas winner securing the big mile and a half event.
* * * *
Those “ reversals of form ” in the Eclipse
Stakes provided a delectable competition among the
horse reporters of the daily and weekly press. It was as
though a prize had been offered to the scribe who could
most pleasantly and convincingly assure the public that
the result of the Wednesday race, in contrast with the
record of the Caulfield Stakes, run four days earlier, was
nothing to be surprised at. Wakeful was beaten out of a
place when Abundance won, and Abundance failed to get
a “shop’’when Wakeful won, and the “form” in each
instance was above suspicion, it appears. Any person
who dared to snort at the apparent inconsistency of
those conflicting results was beneath the contempt of
the scribes whose business it is to make things pleasant.
The art of satisfactory explanation lies in a careful
ignoring of details,
» * * *
Wakeful started a warm favorite for the Caul-
field Stakes (9 furlongs) and was easily beaten by
Abundance and Postillion, who carried 9st. each. The
two 4-year-okls ran in the rear whilst Wakeful and Ibex
were “ cutting one another’s throats in the van,” and then
they ran past the so-called cut-throats. Finally, Abun-
dance won in the unphenomenal time of 1.56}. In the
Eclipse Stakes (11 furlongs) Wakeful was weighted at 8.13
as before, whereas Postillion met her on lOlbs. better
terms, and Abundance carried 9,5, or 51bs. more than his
previous burden. But as Abundance is a big, strong horse
and a notorious stayer his backers had good reason for
expecting him to win again on “ form.” This time Wake-
ful started at 3 to 1 and finished several lengths ahead of
Postillion and Abundance, instead of two or three lengths
behind them. It was a fast race (2.24), and Wakeful
was always ahead of Abundance, anyhow. Yet she didn’t
“ run herself to a standstill,” neither did the big Cup
horse “ profit by his waiting tactics ” as he had profited
on the Saturday previous. The failure of Postillion
might be ascribed to lack of stamina, but the reversal of
form between the two crack performers can be ascribed
to nothing but the inglorious uncertainty of circus-racing
in Australia. When horse reporters lay themselves out
to find specious explanations of such unsatisfactory sur-
prises they only insult the intelligence (if they have any
intelligence) of backers who bet by the book. Assuming
that Wakeful and Abundance were honestly raced on
both occasions a fair critic of their in-and-out running can
only regard it with amazement.
* * * «
Nobody, looking at Nothos on his return to the
birdcage after shaping so badly in the Coongy Handicap,
would have given the big fellow a 100 to 1 chance of
winning the Caulfield Cup, yet he was quoted at 100 to 7
the same night. The stable excuse for Nothos is “ a
delicate constitution.” A great horse on his day, “ but
he easily goes off.” Judging from the distressed con-
dition of this brother to Duke of Grafton after he had
travelled the Coongy Handicap distance (11 furlongs),
present scribe would class him as a non-stayer, although
he was said to be going great guns at the'finish of the
Metropolitan Handicap race in Sydney. Anyway, his
Melbourne Cup prospects are not bright. A big, showy,
soft-looking gee, with a character for being difficult to
keep up to the mark in condition, is rarely found to be
great on the day he is asked to win a 2 miles handicap
from a big field of triers.
» * * *
It has been commonly stated and believed that
the initials, F. J. A., forming the name of Rupert Clarke’s
speedy little three-year-old, signified Frances J. Adler,
the songful niece of the Simonsens, in whose professional
career Rupert appeared to interest himself what time the
damsel was singing at Rickards’ (Melb.) before she went
to Europe. The fact that F.J.A. is a colt was never
raised as an objection to the “ Francie Adler ” theory.
F.J.A. is now said to signify F. J. Austin, one of the
squattah Austins, and the breeder of the S.A. Derby
winner.
* * * *
The old story. Once prominent jockey J.
Delaney who died of consumption and financial worry
in Sydney, the other day, inside of a dozen years ago rode
several big winners and had accumulated a goodly store
of shekels. Wealth—and the wings of the morning.
* * * *
Small M.L. town Yielding has four days’ races
every year and gives away £lOOO prize money each day,
no one race being worth less than £lOO. Fielding isn’t as
big as Penrith (N.S.W.) and is about a fourth the size of
Singleton.
* * » »
Thoroughbred 19-year-old stallion Niagara,
owned by Mr. W. C. Roberts, of Currawang (N.S.W.),
succumbed to rheumatism day or two since. Niagara
was by Anteros—Frailty, and hence half brother to
Trenton (sire of Wakeful, Revenue and eo.) and Havoc
(who begot A. J.C. Derby winner Belah). He was bred by
Messrs. T. and S. Morrin, in M.L., and did big things on
the turf, but had the bad luck to be foaled same year as
Abercorn and Australian Peer. Niagara ran second to
Abercorn in A. J.C. Derby of 1887, and dead-heated that
nag in Australian Peer’s V.R.C. Derby. At stud he
proved a big success, and last year was twelfth on winning
sire’s list with £3993.
* » * *
Moorefield races, Saturday, supplied something
extraordinary—a twice-run dead-heat of three—High-
flyer (first favorite, 2 to 1 against, and next 5 to 4
on), Loch Lochie, and Barindi. Event was principal race
—Moorefield Handicap (1} mile). Loch Lochie proved
unlucky each time through getting into bad positions.
After the second struggle owners agreed to divide.
Manner in which bets were paid left those who took 2 to
1 about Highflyer with their own money, while those who
laid 5t04 on him lost—£s to £4 would mean a shortage
to the punter of £2 on his own stake. Amount laid by
Mo. and sum handed him or booked by the backer were
added together, and the bag disgorged a third.
* * * »
Bendigo saw some tall jumping last week.
Moral, Strathmore, Newhaven and Mahonga cleared 6.8;
6.11 saw Mahonga beaten. Newhaven and Mahonga
tried twice before succeeding. Another 3 inches, 7ft.
2in. and rapidly falling darkness was too much, and both
struck the rails. Previous Austral record was Rattler’s
6.10} at Singleton (N.S.W.) show last year.
* * * *
“ Le Chasse” writes: It is hard for any out-
sider to fathom the reason (if any) which induces pony
meeting stewards to disqualify jockeys and exonerate
owners. Even when they go a point nearer to Solomon’s
record and shut down on both, they still miss the most
guilty one of all, the party with the high instep to his
nose, who puts up the glittering temptation and does all
the underground engineering. No jockey stiffens his
mount for the mere fun of the thing, or for pure devil-
ment either. Gaol half-a-dozen of the wire-pullers, and
foul riding will soon be a thing of the past. But you
might as well read a prayer over the real swindler as
inflict a fine.
* * * •
Britain’s new Colonial Secretary, Alfred Lyttel-
ton, isn’t quite unknown to Australians. He was for
many years England’s crack amateur wicketkeeper, but
cricket enthusiasts of the eighties remember him best as
the .Samson, in one of the test matches played in England
by Murdoch’s team. The Australians had scored 500 odd
for the loss of five wickets, and the lion’s tail was muddy
with trailing on the earth. Every member of the home
team had been on to the ball with the exception of
•Lyttelton, the wicketkeeper. He was, at last, asked to
take a hand, and he cheerfully took the remaining five
wickets for 30 runs. Now he starts on a somewhat similar
undertaking, for Balfour’s hesitating tail is very much
down, and will take a lot of lifting.
« » » *
The charms of English cricket, with a three-
day limit, which makes the losing side play for time!
Yorkshire had got Worcester out for 23 (!)and made 76
for one wicket. Then rain stopped all play till 4.30 on
the third day. Hawke’s only chance was to declare his
innings closed, and try to get Worcester out again for
52 or less before 6.30. ‘ There remained an hour and a
half for play when Isaac joined Arnold, but the pair
made a splendid stand. Neither attempted to score. . .
Arnold’s display was a wonderful exhibition of patience ;
he batted nearly two hours for 13.- Isaac was batting
three-quarters of an hour for 3, and Pearson 40 minutes
for 4. A good deal depended upon Pearson, but,
fortunately for his side, he rose to the occasion admir
ably. Slowly the minutes passed. Occasionally the
batsmen scored, but runs were not the object. Arnold’s
display was beyond praise. . . The occupants of the
pavilion gave the unbeaten batsmen a cordial reception
as they came in ’’—but the rest of the spectators, being
good Yorkshiremen, howled for the stonewallers’ blood.
Score of the two hours’ play : six men out, and 27 runs
made.
* * * *
George Giffen’s team (West Adelaide) fell in
badly in its first match of the season. Post office work
keeps the veteran out of the field every alternate Satur-
day. The West Adelaides won the toss on the day when
they had him with them, and put the other side in, so as
to get the use of Giffen’s bowling. But he took only one
wicket, and a slow afternoon’s play resulted in 5 for 173.
The following Saturday a storm in the night had spoiled
the pitch. The Port Adelaides promptly closed their
innings, and (with Giffen away and one man run out)
went through West Adelaide for 16! Drew, 4 for 9 ;
Waters, 4 for 7
• * « *
“ Scrip ”: Have you ever noticed that many
sporting writers, although capable of turning out really
good stuff, are absolute duffers at picking winners?
Their luck in this respect is often execrable, and as for
selecting first, second and third, they get no nearer to it
than a man who wants to evade an appointment with a
tiger. Forecasting the three is rather a cheeky contract.
Remember many years ago when a Dunedin (M.L.)
sweepist offered £lOO to the successful tipster of first,
second and third in Melbourne Cup. A trio on a local
newspaper put in a big spell of hard labor and won the
prize. There were a couple of million tips sent in
altogether, the winners contributing 125,000; and they
didn't strike the winning sequence until they had turned
their fiftieth thousand.
* * • *
Sydney lightweight Truscott closed on another
fight with £lOO side bet and purse at Sydney National
S.O. last week, beating Bob Burnett on points in 20
rounds. Several rounds were Burnett’s, but majority
belonged to Truscott, who shaped with his usual vigor,
pluck, and endurance. Truscott is of the material of which
world’s champions are made ; he only lacks knowledge of
how to use his hands and feet properly. No gamer man,
or stronger, at the weight, ev4r shaped, and few have his
staying powers. Yet a youngster under 20, prospects are
very bright for Truscott, provided he can acquire skill.
* * * *
Fight at Sydney Gaiety A.C., Monday night,
between holder Bob Turner and Monty Andrews, for
Australian lightweight supremacy, saw first-named go
very near losing his honors. Turner’s fix was not too
good, while Andrews made the best showing of his career;
and finding big spots of weakness in the champion, landed
left and right hooks and swings on side of face and ribs
almost at will, but all failed through lack of power.
Turner began carelessly, underrating Andrews, but
he soon became serious. Andrews was well in
front during the first 10 rounds—once going very near
getting the money through a blow that dazed the
top-notcher, who was saved by the gong clang. After
the tenth round Turner made most play and forced the
game always, though there was more scuffle than effect
in his operations, but the tussle excited because it was
willing and fast always. The verdict (“ a draw ”) appar-
ently pleased the majority, and little exception could be
taken to it. Bar a slight trickle from Andrews’ nose,
his swollen left ear, and a “ mouse ” under one of
Turner’s optics, it was a bloodless battle.
* * * »
First showing in Sydney of recently arrived
Yankee middleweight Frank Nicholls, demonstrated that
he is a hard, gritty fighter, capable of taking and giving
heavy punishment and living through anything within
reason. Though heavyweight Tucker punched all over
the visitor in the first round and made it appear 50 to 1
he would win, Nicholls survived and waited grimly for his
turn. When Tucker did weaken, trouble came to him so
fast and so tellingly that police interference in the 9th
round saved a sadly broken-up pug from being completely
knocked out. New arrival isn’t overburdened with
science, but has a cast-iron constitution and great hitting
power. °
• * * *
At last doughty little fighter Jack McGowan
has, like all bruisers who bruise long enough, gone under
to a punch on the point from a third-rater. Tom Dunne
did it in the fourth round at Kalgoorlie (W.A.) last week
and although McGowan stood up for some time he was so
hopelessly done that the referee called a halt and gave
Dunne the dollars. McGowan has been bruising
regularly, sometimes three times a week, for 16 years
continuously, and is the dad of two families. For Jack
McGowan the end of boxing has come.
* * » *
Micko Walsh and Silver fought a lurid fight for
the Vic. “fedder" supremacy in Melbourne, Saturday
night. Walsh was 2to 1 on, and the fight galloped from
the first. Walsh’s left remained permanently in Silver’s
face the whole first round, and sent him to his corner
v ® r y In the second Walsh tried to finish it right
off, but Sliver had pulled himself together somewhat and
responded with equal fury, and the crowd went mad
while the angels wept. Suddenly Walsh, fighting
wildly, seized Silver by the neck and hurled him
against one of the posts, and referee Joe Stokesburv
promptly and properly gave Silver the decision. Then
one of Walsh’s seconds swooped down and smote
the referee in sixteen places at once. The referee, a
husky fighter himself, responded vigorously, till the
pohce and friends tore them apart, each vowing to pound
the other to a jelly. Time Walsh dropped out of Austra-
lian boxing ; he fouled Turner in Sydney ; he threw up
an engagement with the Gaiety at the last moment, after
putting the proprietor to considerable expense ; then at
Kalgoorlie his conduct was so suspicious that the referee
cried all bets off and awarded the gate to charities. Un-
fortunately the last proceeding was illegal, and the
fighters had to be given the takings.
At Timaru (M.L.) ten of the local Harbor
Board employees essayed a tug-of-war with the same
number of Maoris. The contest was for £5O a side and
the time limit was half-an-hour. The Maoris, who in-
cluded a fragile native weighing 22 stone, were victorious
by four inches, hut the losers lodged a protest on the
ground that the winners had their end of the rope fast to
an immovable object—the 22-stone brown gentleman
aforesaid.
* » * *
Women by nature are not accurate marksmen.
When the careful housewife, with determination on every
feature, seizes a stone with the avowed intention of
dislodging the domestic fowl off the lettuces, it is time
to get your dodging apparatus running smoothly. Yet
woman seems able to shoot just as well as man, or
better. Recently a team of ladies—the wives of officers
of the 7th Regiment—came down from Ballarat to shoot
a match against the crack Commonwealth Ladies Club at
Melbourne. Out of 35 points at 50 yards, with a 4in.
bull’s-eye, six out of the 20 competitors scored the
“possible,” four got 34, five registered 33, and every one
of the others over 30—shooting which would scarcely be
equalled by the Bisley team. The affair ended in favor
of Melbourne by 17 points.
* * * *
The Adelaide handicapper makes but tifb
local men (Wilksch and Champness) as now better than
Billmartin at all distances up to fcwo m'les ; Walker, Pye,
Morgan, and Palmer are also set to give a few yards to
the once almost invincible Plugger.
* * » *
S.A. League of Wheelmen’s Spring meet at
Adelaide (Saturday) drew 6000. Eighteen events pro-
duced poor racing generally. The recently-arrived
'Murkan, Downing, though only in Australia a week and
just off the long train trip (Sydney to Adelaide), finished
second from scratch to Wilksch, with G. Morgan third,
in half-mile handicap. Merit of the performance is made
evident when ’tis remembered that Morgan easily won
half-mile Australian championship and mile scratch race
in Sydney a couple of weeks ago. Downing’s reputation
ranks him inferior to his fellow-visitors, Lawson and
M'Farland—and yet he, with everything decidedly
against him, accounted for four of Australia’s best in
Walker, Morgan, Chalmers and Martin. What are we
coming to ? What riders the other two Yankees must
be! Small wonder efforts are being made to induce
negro Major Taylor’s presence again this season.
* * * *
The Americanised idea of running a scratch
bike race was launched at Sydney Sports Ground initial
meet. It was a five mile spin, and points were allotted to
the leading trio past the post each time round. If the
race was run over 10 miles, every spectator would require
a secretary to note riders and points. The idea is too
complicated, and isn’t in the same street as the old-style
race with lap prizes, and first past the post at the finish
declared the winner. The League “amateur” race is
another event which should be wiped off programmes in
future, together with the “midget championship” for
boys under nine years of age. It doesn’t make cyclists of
them—it only strains their hearts.
* • • *
In an English provincial town, where party
feeling respecting the education question runs high, an
exponent of the noble art of “plug "has been issuing
professional cards which read :—“ To Passive Resisters
and Others.—l beg to give notice that I will open my
winter boxing classes in the last week of September !’’


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER. .. .
Continental Caoutchouc & Guttapercha Co.
HANOVER.
-i
K
Wallace Continental Bicycle Tyres,
Wallace Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres,
AND
The Celebrated Continental Motor Tyres
(Winners of Gordon Bennett Cup, 1903).
Total Yearly Output—over 600,000 Tyres.
DEPOT AT—
WALLACE PNEUMATIC TYRE COY.,
274 FUNDERS ST., MELBOURNE.
Branches in all States.
*6
®®aaaoQO*® 0 °
H
Value and Quality Guaranteed,
LOVELY PENDANTS for Evening and Day Wear.
The Prettiest Selection of Newest Designs in Australia.
Remarkable Value.
m
All Goods
Post Free.
mm
Please send
■for our
Illustrated
Catalogue^
Heart Pendants, Solid Gold set
with Real Pearls and Turquoise.
22/6. Others from 2/6 to £25.
Star Pendants and Brooches, set with finest
Pearls, Turquoises, Opals and Diamonds.
Prices from 40/- to £l5O.
The Goldsmiths and Silversmiths Alliance, Ltd
Our Only Australian Address :
90 KING ST., SYDNEY
m
Combination Pendant
arid P»rooch, Exquisite
Design, in all Pearl or
Pearl and Turquoise,
£5 10s.
50 others to select from.
Send for particulars.
New Goods Arriving: by Every Mail.
L/i The Secret of Pleasurable Cycling
is to buy a Bicycle that suits your height,
RED BIRD BICYCLES
weight, etc.
are built in every size of frame, and the purchaser can select any shape of handle-bar, style of
saddle, make of tyres, rims, chain, etc. Long, easy payment terms arranged.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St., Sydney.
the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
x ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is ‘ Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,” ~mg
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
offi ce. Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS.
J. LANDES.
108 Pitt St., Sydney.
Importer and Manufacturer of Automatic Slot
Machines, Household Specialties and American
. Novelties.
Slot Machines of every description a Specialty.
SEED’S PATENT HYGIENIC WATER FILTERS,
fit all faucets, 2s. and 4s. each.
HETTRICK’S FOLDING BATH CABINETS, 30s.
each,
ELECTRIC VAPORIZER, DISINFECTING AND
PERFUMING FANS, £1 15s.
“ COMMON SENSE ” CORN CURE, 9d.
THE PERFECTION HAIR CURLER, best in the
world, is. 3d.
LATEST NOVELTY in LADIES’ BELTS, made of
: Celluloid, all colors, 2s.
&3POur Illustrated Catalogue free on application.
All Goods shipped freight paid.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By Victor J. Daley. Handsomely bound ;
makes a fine presentation volume to friends
abroad. Post free from The Bulletin
Office, ss. 4d.
SHARPSHOOTINg
For Sport and War.
m
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/. nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The beet 1/- worth ewer Published.
|F you wish to get good work and value
1 you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFi.ES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne*
(Greener’s Representative).
RESCUED from DljlNK
m
By a new discovery, odorlejs
and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food.
It does its work so silently and
surely that while the devt ted
wife, sister or daughter looks on
the drunkard is reclaimed even
against his will and without hi»
knowledge or co-operation.
-Miss Edith WILLIAMS, who
cured her father after years of
misery, wretchedness and almost
(unbearable suffering, says:—“l
Shall be so glad if you publish my
experience, for it will reach
many others and let them know
about the wonderful EUCRASY.
I will do all I can to help any
suffering sister who will write me.” Send name and
address to THE
Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney,
and they will send you Booklet and particulars FREE.
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
WILLIAMS’
m
A Soothing
Influence—
Williams’
Shaving
Stick.
My Silent Partner—
WILLIAMS’ BARBER’S BAR.
ney ; 362a Little Collins
AS&’Every Bar
weighs Sixteen
Honest English
Ounces, divi-
ded into Six
Cakes. Not
sold in Slices.
J. B. Williams
Co., Glaston-
bury,Conn., U.
S.A., 232 Clar-
ence St., Syd-
i St. t Melbourne
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
CHAS GILBERT’S
m
PERFECTLY TAILORED SUITS
I USE BRAINS in my business; and, as a result, claim
that my tailoring is only equalled by the most skilled tailors at a
much higher price.
I am now putting Haircloth through the fronts of
every coat, keeping the garment in perfect shape and prevent-
ing the creases caused by the coat throwing back, so objection-
able a feature in many so-called tailor-made suits.
Suits to Measure from 50s* to 85s*
I know my values are unmatchable and want you to
Be sure and write for Patterns
and give my statements a thorough testing.
I guarantee a fit from my specially prepared self-measurement
forms, or will “ Return your money.”
m
m
m
R
I
S
B
A
N
e:
The resumption claims against. N.S.W.
Government are an interesting commentary on
that public delusion that the State ought always
to be asked something over the value of the article.
The Daltons’ claim for the resumed Miller’s Point
wharf, for instance, was £105,000; the Govern-
ment offered £75,000, and after a prolonged
hearing the court decided for the Government.
The resumption scheme of over 20 years ago ran
on very similar lines. John Lucas of that day,
the ponderous M.L.O., claimed £76,900 and was
awarded £4500, and there were many similar
cases. John McClockin (he deserves a monu-
ment) claimed £400 and received every penny he
claimed.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Suggested candidature for the Senate of
Dr. Bevan (Vic.) recalls the fact that, by the
Constitution Act passed by N.S.W. Legislature
in 1853, and confirmed by the Imperial Parliament
in 1855, ministers of religion were declared
ineligible for seats in the local Parliament. The
debarring clause was probably aimed at Dr. John
Dunmore Lang, who was a member of Parlia-
ment, but was absent in England when the Act
was passed. His outspokenness rendered him
obnoxious to the ascendant Tory party. The
clause was repealed in 1857, and Dr. Lang was.
re-elected in 1859. Victoria and Westralia still,
bar clergymen out of Parliament.
Writes a man from Moree (N.S.W.):
About the quaintest circus that ever reached Moree'
was a band of O’Sullivan’s unemployed. The majority
were replicas of the American “ Weary Willie,” attired in
frayed toppers, greasy walking coats and ancient dress;
waistcoats (P.S. —They also wore trousers). Top-hats are
unknown in Moree, and the small fry practised on them
with their catapults. It took half a day to land t lie unem-
ployed at the relief works, as the hand inutinii d, and.
spentsome of its two bob in beer. Its chief feat otherwise-
was ringbarking 50 acres of dead timber !
THEY APPEAL TO OUR SYMPATHIES.
The bilious, dyspeptic, and emaciated are con-
stant sufferers, and appeal to our sympathies.
There is not one of them, however, who may not
be brought back to health and happiness bv the
use of CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and
LIVER TABLETS. These Tablets invigorate
the stomach and liver, and strengthen the diges-
tion. They also cure constipation, which is the
father of many ills. If you wish to get well and
stay well, to enjoy your meals and not feel dull
and stupid after eating, use these Tablets and
observe the directions with each box, and your
wish will soon be realised. Just what you need.
Sold everywhere. Is. Gd.* , j
♦
Remark by John Kidd, an obscure mem-
ber of N.S.W. Ministry : —
I hope there can yet be money found for progressive
public works, and then let the fellows who come after pa
go slow if they like.
That w r as part of a speech in which John Kidd
called wildly for more loan money, because John
Kidd belongs to the crowd that is too lazy and
cowardly to pay for its own public works, and
believes in letting the baby shoulder the bill.
And some day, when the baby refuses to pay
John Kidd’s lazy, cowardly, dishonest bill, the
remnant of a toothless old John, sitting by the tire,
will mumble that the baby isn’t honest.
The ruin of the Vic. railway system and
the disorganisation of the service continue apae£.
At Ballarat six senior drivers tendered their’
resignations in one week, being anxious to take:
their compensation and make a fresh start else-
where. The Government refused to accept the.
resignations, which action squares with fihiels’
attitude in denying the right to compensation df
employees incapacitated through illness. Prac-
tically the Kyabram Government says to its em-
ployees : “You can work such hours as we order
at the wage we offer, or you can leave ; but, as we
decline to give you the compensation which thie..
law says you are entitled to, if you decide to
leave you will have to go without it.” Which’
is just plain robbery and repudiation.
A
Good
Trio
-
c n'\°J
ISTS
I
v-
v+s&sJfati** ~ °x * <*
rV»«*
P®
IOV
v* >*^:
At*«>*
m
cos'",
' l s»
«£hs&‘J5
f *r^
S° ,° >t»^ V -*\o09 * a
w\'oT& 4 *^'-
ti> vV y<VC«. * ~
i 1 ** -\teeV et '
Istfjsssff-
\
°U TiV° Q
m
mm
k voP
cus^ 1
it V
t^o C rt^ ie *
p
nr&
'too
rvjtibC
5*S
t\H> 1
A'fe^ 6
6f<=
Iryii^
asd
\V£
bo'' [N
Sjie»
t*Sf
,v A
ftf»r
ftif'ft
i?,';
■»«<
eftf
AroC
£
yco
\CO
vVtf^
*»e M
«nc»
Ru\^’
Jigs***'
saJ*5
.•go* 1 !
Sydney Depot:
150 Clarence Streets


-■‘ - .. - - •... . .
fc - ••• '■ ■ ■&..•>:ix • •*: •">
. ... , • ... .. -
>• <•
'•«* " ■'••'■ '■'-!;' ?•■ y ;
'nr.. i-;!'
■oa
-
■■*>;.?• j-,x "
' > I ■ . . : '•
’ -v'- ‘"t
fort
•• .
; •, ’ v £
'■ • '■' ■' •■■■ . \
>\ 0 '
AO© <\ C
.w<v v oN c >o©°
*>> B >^<>
\*
<v e
Blackwood’s Magazine, on Britain’s fiscal
foolishness:—
It will be observed that the treaties of commerce which
Canada very properly rebelled against were negotiated
40 years ago, when fiscal altruism was in its most acute
and quixotic stage. That with Germany dates from 1865,
and the one with Belgium from 1869. Self-government
had been granted to our principal colonies a few years
before, and one of the pedantic conditions to it was that
no colony should impose differential duties on any of its
imports. While this Oobden veto continued in force, local
produce could not cross the border from one colony into
another without paying the same duty as foreign produce.
In fact, it often had to pay considerably more, as, for
instance, when South Australian wines, worth, perhaps,
three shillings per gallon, had to be charged the same
duty per gallon in Victoria arid New South Wales as
French Burgundy, fetching five and ten times the price.
Not till this betine had been in operation for a-quarter-of-
a-ceritury did the colonies get rid of it.
“ S.W.,” from south-western Victoria :—
Re your par. about squatter Thomas Shaw’s alarm anent
Irvine’s closer settlement proposals : What compensation
does the Government propose to give to the poor land-
holders of 10,000 acres or so who have for years past been
using the public roads? There are something like 40
miles of fenced-in roads in the Victorian western district,
and the would-be owners have had the use of them gratis
so long that, when the local councils are appealed to by
ratepayers to have them opened, the greedy squatter
calls it confiscation, protests, employs a solicitor, and
holds on like grim death to his wrongfully-acquired land.
When finally a man is despatched by one of these slow-
moving governing bodies to remove the gates and fences
and open up the road the trouble is not at an end. The
irate ratepayer, who has up to this stage probably written
16 letters, is obliged to spend more money in stamps to
point out to the council that the obstructions have been
replaced, and the road stolen again.
1
■ 1
'wm&Ez
BY LAND OR SEA
One of the most effective aids to Photo-
graphic Success is the “PREMO”
PACK FILM. It contains 12 Flat,
Extra Rapid, Isochromatic Films with
changing attachment for use in
daylight. Rapidity of exposure,
certainty of change and beauty of results assured.
CAN BE USED IN ANY 44 PREMO” CAMERA.
44 AUSTRAL” DRY PLATES and PAPERS always fresh. No
deterioration from age or prolonged shipment.
ALL NEW EDISON RECORDS.
COLUMBIA DISC GRAPHOPHONES.
pp?
-/
Sydney
Melbourne
Adelaide.
Brisbane
AUSTRAL” CAMERAS for Plates or Films, 65., 10s., 21s. each.
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A rid at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens. -
Seven
Prize IVlodals.
mm
Works: Birmingnam, England,
These series
of Pens neither
I scratch nor spurt
They g>ide over
the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS and SAKKEY, Ltd
Oculists, Opticians, and n . . . _ . . .
Manufacturers of spectacles ... Brisbane and Rockhampton
f
a
OPTICAL BRANCH presided over by Mr. CHAS. SANKEY FRASER, F.S.n.C., Etc., Etc., who holds
the highest qualifications as an Optician in all Australia, viz. : Diploma Applied Optics, Northamton
Institute, London ; Diploma Visual Optics, Northamton Institute, London ; Diploma of the British Optical
Association, London ; Fellow of the Worshipful Company 0f Spectacle Makers of London, and Freeman of the
City of London ; Author of “ The Human iEye.” Send for Copy—Post Free.
Correspondence Invited—Prompt Attention Assured
Recommended by Leading Oculists.
The Best and the Cheapest.
WOMEN, BEAD THESE FACTS.
Many of you live far in country parts, where you cannot procure the necessities for the
NURSERY, the BOUDOIR, the HOME. By writing to us you can be certain that your
wants will be supplied. FACE and TOOTH POWDERS, Toilet Requisites in Variety,
Soaps, Perfumes, Patent Medicines, or any indispensable necessity, may be received by parcel
post a few hours after writing. We have an excellent assortment of Bath Requisites suitable for
Summer requirements. Write to us for price lists, sent free on application.
Dr. Steel’s Celebrated Indigestion
Cure.— The enemy of Indigestion & Dyspepsia.
2s 6d.post paid.
Dr. Hughes’ “Pits Epilep.” —A certain
remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms. Won-
derful cures are registered from its use. 5s p. paid
Pincham’s Capaline. —A Nursery Hair-
Wash invaluable for Children’s Use. Destroys
Vermin speedily. No mother should be without
a bottle. Is 6d and 2s 6d, post paid.
Pincham’s “Pearline” Pace Bleach.—
For beautifying the Skin and Complexion.
Makes the face, neck and hands as white as a
lily. Sure Cure for Blackheads, Pimples, and
Sallow Skin, &c. 2s 6d post paid.
Pyramid Pile Cure. —A certain remedy.
It is so effective that the worst cases are relieved
in six hours. See you get the G. 5 remedies,
3s. 6d. p. paid.
Fincham’s May Blossom Herbal Liver
Tonic.— Made from original recipe of the late
Dr. Fortesque. Corrects all derangements of
the Liver, Bilious Headaches, Sourness of the
Stomach, Bad Breath, Lassitude, Despondency.
2s. 6d. and 55., post- paid.
Dr. Clarkson’s Great Re-Invigorator.
—For weak Dyspeptic men, a splendid Nerve
Tonic and Reju venator, promotes Digestion,
increases the Appetite, enriches the Blood, and
gives vital strength. In bottles, 7s. 6d. Three
bottles (a course), £l. Post paid.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be mailed free on application to
C. P. FINCH AM, M.P.S.,
The §wl §rug Store, 227 Elizabeth Street,
" Hyde Park, SYDNEY.


Pretty Little Presents at
Pretty Little Prices
Come and see oar pretty windows—see the class of goods
we stock—compare our prices with those who sell inferior
goods. You will be surprised to ; see how many times our
prices are lower than others, notwithstanding the
difference in quality. If out of town, write for
•Catalogue. It's free. -
No. E 9417. For making a single cup of tna
without the use of tea-pot. Silver-plated
Infuser, 3s 6d.
No. E72IG. Ivory and Silver-plated
Cheeses Scoop, 10s 6d.
No. 394. Long Silver-plated Bread Fork, 4s 6d
No. F 6139. Siiver*plated Butter Knife, 2s Cd.
No F 6589. Case of 6 Silver-plated
Afternoon Tea Spoons and Tongs, 10s 6d.
u
No. 400. Silver-plated Knife Rests, 5s per pair!
No. 363. Silver-plated Sugar Tongs
large, 4s 6d.
Others, 2s 6d and 3s 6d.
No. 398. Pearl and Silver-plated Bread Fork,
Thistle Top, 12s 6d.
t: u ;:r\ l
akfmM
No. P3073.' Pearl and Best Silver-plated Bread
Pork, 15s 6d.
No. F6OOO. .Silver-plated Cheese Scoop, 9s 6J.
No. E 7930. Pearl and Silver-plated Pickle Fork, 2s ; better, 3s 6d.
No. 392. Silver-plated Sugar Sifter, 3s 6d.
Imams
No G 769. Silver-plated Crumb Scoop, 14s 6d.
No. 388. Silver-plated Jam Spoon, 3s.
No. F 6140. Silver-plated Butter Knife, 3s,
No. F 4707. Ivory and Silver-plated Bread
Fork, 11s 6d.
No. F 6138. Silver-plated Butter Knife, 3s.
...cl
No. F769C. Silver-plated and Best Steel Bread Knife, 8s <3(l.
No. 354. Ivory and Silver-plated Bread Fork, 3s 6d.
SBtwma&fjK'' >-
rfo. E 8360. Silver-plated Long Bread Pork, 6s 6d.
No. E 4099, Silver-plated Bread Fork, 3s.
No. 336. Silver-plated and Pearl Butter Knife, 3s 6d.
No. 396. Pearl and A 1 Silver-plate Long Bread Fork, 14s 6d.
Stewart Dawson & Co.
Strand Corner, GEORGE SL, SYDNEY*
Celebrated Artist.
WE have great pleasure in an*
nouncing that we have a selec-
tion of Records which are
marvellous. examples of the wonderful
technique and splendid execution of Mr.
J acobs.
10in. RECORDS.
7946 Polonaise... ..WymiawpH
AS PLAYED IN AUSTRALIA.
7945 Seranata.:. Moskowski
7in. RECORDS.
7905 Waltz Caprice
7906 Zigeunerweieen
7908 Overtas Mazurka
7909 Dudziarz Mazurka
7912 Legende Wieniawski
7513 Polonaise Wieniawski
We have also a grand selection of
Records as sung at the Ada Crossley Con-
certs, of which we may mention 44 The
Four-Leaved Shamrock,” 44 The Little
Silver Ring,” and '** Home, Sweet Home.”
Photo, by Talma.
Mr. JACOBS,
The Violinist of the Ada Crossiey Concert Company.
Agents all over the World.
RECORDS
IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Send for Catalogues and
Price Lists.
Australasian Agents
VICTORIA—
A. P. Svkes, 272 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
Messrs. J. Marshall & Sons,
Rundle Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND—
Messrs. Heindorff Bros.,
210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA—
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.,
Barrack Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND—
Messrs. H. Gentles & Co.,
9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
TASMANIA—
Messrs. Wertheimer & Benjamin,
71 Collins Street, Hobart.
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
e s a ,i i s


Rent Reform League
PROPORTIONAL RENT. No Fixed Rentals. Pro-
tection of Payer’s Interest on Purchased Farm.
A PUBLIC MEETING will be held in the SCHOOL OF
ARTS, GERRINGONG, on SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24,.
at 8 p.m., for the purpose of establishing the above
League.
ROLL UP ! and give a helping hand to free yourselves;
from an unfair load in the shape of extortionate rents.
JOHN KEAN, The Ranch, Hurstville, Organiser.
_ Missing Friends.
C ANN.— If EDWARD STANNARp CANN, formerly
of Gippsland, Victoria, and believed to have been;
subsequently prospecting at or near Charters Towers,.
Queensland, Will communicate with the undersigned,,
he will hear of something to his advantage. Any
information as to the death or whereabouts of the-
said EDWARD STANNARD CANN is particularly re-
quested.
FREEMAN and NAPIER,
Solicitors,
123 and 124 Vickery’s Chambers,
82 Pitt-street, Sydney.- ,
i“' s<
Digestic
Digestive Tonic.
Digestion converts food into
blood, brain, muscle ; gives vigour,
| vitality, health. Indigestion makes
f good food poison, breeds dolts, lag-
gards, hobbling rheumatics, liverish
tempers, nerve-racking pains. Seigel s
Syrup ensures digestion, dispels
disease, produces health.
“Six months back,” says Mr. John
Lennon, of a 6, Comber Street, Padding-
ton, Sydney, “ 1 was caused great suf-
fering by acute dyspepsia. A friend
induced me to take Seigel’s Syrup
| and the effect was magical. Alter
a few doses every ache and pain
vanished and I have had no re-
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Bole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust ; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading: Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeepers
of N.S.W.
directions for Use. —Throw the Carbide down the tube;
the Machine does the rest.
- .6
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained several
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than is
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
<k(nmZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient* water.
JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient* water.
RfINZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient water.
RfINZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient wat
&
COON - COON - COON,
I'VE MADE UP MY MIND
TO SAIL AWAY.
The Honeysuckle & the Bee,
1 Skedaddled, It’s the Man behind the
Gun, Sweet Ivy May .Terry Co,
Melindo Loo, Sometimes, When the
Harvest Days are Over, also lwo
Hundred other Oriaina ICoon and
LoveSonas. AIIHieDATEST HITS.
Posted for ONE SHILLING,
anywhere. Stamp* or Postal Note..
B.P. Co., Box 404, Q.P.O., Sydney
Deafness # Head Noises Cured
NO EAR-DRUMS. NO OPERATION.
•A Colonist 60 years, deaf 43 years, CURED HIMSELF.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Write or Call for Particulars.
MLLSOM AGENCY,
36 Carrington Street,
Wynyard Square, Sydney
“Steele Rudd’s” new book, Our New
-Selection, will be ready in mid-November. Even
jollier than On Our Selection, with more pictures.
Price, 6s. Order at once from The Bulletin.*
Amusements.
The new her MAJE ®™
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. 0. YVILLIAMSO* .
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
AN UNDOUBTED TRIUMPH.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Famous and Ever Welcome
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in
THE TOREADOR.
Box Plan at Paling’s. g-f PRICES AS USUAL
QRITERION THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
ALFRED DAMPIER, Supported by the
CHARLES HOLLOWAY DRAMATIC COMPANY,
IT’S NEVER TO MEND.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 24, First Appearance of
CHARLES HOLLOWAY in THE BHAUCHRAN.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sub-Lessee & Manageress, Miss FITZMAURIOE GILL.
BRILLIANT INAUGURATION of
MISS FITZMAURICE GILL’S DRAMATIC SEASON.
THIS EVENING and UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE,
MISS FITZMAURIOE GILL and her s P ec^lly-Se '«:ted
DRAMATIC COMPANY and MR. ALBERT GRAN
(Specially Engaged), in Wm. Bourne’s Drama, in Five Acts,
MAN TO MAN.
By arrangement with and under the Stage Direction of
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD.
PRICES— Bs, 2s, & Is. No Early Doors. Plan at Elvy s.
-J* O W N
EVERY
PEOPLE'S
PEOPLE’S
HALL, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY, EVERY
POPULAR
POPULAR CONCERTS.
CONCERTS.
McADOO’S ORIGINAL
FISK JUBILEE SIN6CRS.
Plan at White Rose Confectionery Co., Pitt-street.
Reserved Seats, 2s.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed by MISS EUGENE DUGGAN, in
HER SECOND TIME ON EARTH,
Written by Walter Melville.
Prices—B/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
THE MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES.
KING STREET ARCADE
„d- 400 GEORGE STREET.
Ahvays on View.
lAdmission FREE.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickarks
Splendid Reception of America's Comedy Sketch Artists,
FREDERICK \ d f „ MOLLY
HALLEN } Md tFULLER.
A Furore Created Nightly by MARZELLA,
Queen of the Feathered World.
Re-appearance of Mr. ERNEST FITT3.
Re-appearance of Mias PEARL NOVELL.
Emphatic Success of THE POWERS BROTHERS.
Miss NITA LEETE, Mr. ERNEST SULLIVAN,
Mr. LES WHARTON, and all our Great Co.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
LAST NIGHTS of
W. C. FIELDS, America’s Eccentric Juggler.
Brilliant Success of FRANCES LESLIE, America’s Soprano.
Re-appearanee of Mr. FRED. RIVENHALL.
WILL WHITBURN, CLARENCE SISTERS, CECII.E
STEPHANO, THE LENTONS, FRANK YORK*,
ROBERT NEEDHAM, FLORRIE RANGER, MAGGIE
FRASER, FRANK YORKE, HUGH lIUXHAM,
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
SECOND WEEK of
Mr. BEERBOHM TREE’S CO., including
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUS KNICHT
in a New Romantic English Play, entitled,
MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE,
The reigning London and New York Success.
H
Theatre royal, Melbourne
L egsee Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. .. 0. Simonsens.
EIGHT MORE NIGHTS ONLY,
Bland Holt’s Dramatic Company in that Universal Melo-
dramatic Favorite,
THE WORLD,
by H. Pettitt, Paul Merritt and Augustus Harris.
Prices 3s. 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
piTZ-GERALD BROS.’
ALL NEW CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE,
[N THEIR OWN PERMANENT BUILDING,
JUST OVER PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
The Opening on Saturday Evening
a PALPABLE and
Instantaneous Success.
EVERY ACT, NOVELTY AND SENSATION CHEERED
BY THE ASSEMBLED THOUSANDS.
THE LATEST AND GREATEST
ENGLISH & CONTINENTAL IMPORTATIONS
RECEIVED AN OVATION.
EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES, MONDAYS and TUESDAYS, and
ATT, HOLIDAYS.
PRICES— 4s, 3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan Glen’s & Grand Hotel.
FITS
Trench’s Remedy
epilepsy.
Immediate Relief.
Valuable Booklet
Free.
Permanent Cure;
CURED
The Union Mfg. & Agency Company,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Great Fingall Consols, Day Dawn (W.A.), is
being vigorously opened up, preparatory to starting the
addition to the mill. The main shaft is being sunk at
the rate of 50ft. monthly, and is now down about 250 ft.
below the No. 9 level. The latter level, which is at a
vertical depth of 750 ft., has been driven about 700 ft. The
reef averages about Bft., and is worth over an oz. per ton.
No. 5 level has been carried 900 ft. south, having followed
the new chute of ore, which is of much lower grade than
the main chute. Though this new chute is 6ft. to 7ft.
wide, the ore averages barely XOdwt. It adds enor-
mously to the reserves, but reduces the general average.
The erection of the extra 40 head of stamps is being
pushed ahead, and, before long, the mine should rank,
for a time at least, as the premier producer of the State.
The 6s. div., payable on 15th inst., should be followed by
large quarterly divs.
The South Fingall (W.A.) will pub down
another bore-hole in the attempt to locate the elusive
lode ; but as three or four co.’s situated at all points of
the compass allege that they have the lode in their pro-
perties, it must be of the octopus variety if their state-
ments are reliable. It is more likely that the parent co.
had collared nearly everything of value.
* * * •
Murchison Associated, Day Dawn (W.A.), a
mile north of the Great Fingall, is bidding for public
favor. The co. is a sixth reconstruction, and the ground
has been worked for eight years by Bewick, Moreing and
00. without result. The original underlay shaft is to be
pushed down from 300 to 500 ft., while anew vertical shaft
has been started to intersect the reef at 1000 ft. An air
compressor and rock drills are being installed, and it
certainly looks as if the Moreing people believe they are
on a good thing. As it took the same managers five
years to discover the merits of the Great Fingall, it is not
altogether surprising that they have taken a few years
longer to prove this property. The Rubicon lease, on
which work is being concentrated, was originally part of
the Fingall property. Of 400,000 shares of ss. 300,000 are
issued paid up to 3s. 6d., and 100,000 are in reserve. The
assessments should prove ample to thoroughly test the
ground.
* * • •
Lake View Consols, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), has
been gradually increasing its reserves, and these are now
estimated at ifeS,ooo tons, containing 89,0000 z., or about
lojdwt. per ton. This original 50-head mill has been
condemned as obsolete and is to be scrapped forthwith.
* * » *
Atlas, Kalpini (W.A.) has already run short of
water, the dam having given out, and one shift has been
dispensed with.
■ « * * *
South Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), has put down
the second bore hole in the Government reserve to over
1000 ft., without encountering anything of tangible value.
, * * * *
Including Government mills, the equivalent of
ov r 500 head of stamps, capable of treating nearly
50,000 tons monthly, will shortly be added to the treat-
ment plants of W.A. The chief additions are: Golden
Horseshoe, 50 head ; Orova-Brown Hill, 20 (started);
North Kalgurli, 10 (started); Eclipse, 10 (started); Asso-
ciated, 20; Great Boulder, 20; L.V. Consols, 50 (to
replace original 50); Devon Consols, 15; Associated
Northern, equal to 20; South Kalgurli, equal to 20;
Bellevue, 40; Island Eureka South, 5; Queensland Menzies,
10; Great Fingall, 40; Cue G.M. and Prospecting, 20 ; Mur-
chison Associated, 10 ; Hannan’s Main Reef, 10 ; Princess
Royal North, 10; Cumberland, 10; Lady Robinson, 10
(started); South Gippsland, 5; Bedchambers, Black
Range, 10 ; Greenmount, Southern Cross, 20 ; Nullagine,
20 ; Lalla Rookh, 10 ; Baden Powell, 10 ; Golden Ridge,
10 ; Lake Way, 10 ; Field’s Find, Yalgoo, 20 ; Mt. Jack-
son, 10.
* * * *
.- The Coolgardie water scheme (W.A.) has
proved a decided success, at least so far_ as conserving
water is concerned. The Mundaring dam is overflowing,
and contains 4600 million gallons—enough to last the
goldfields for the next three or four yean, so that the
water famine bogey is permanently squelched. There
has been great delay in connecting the mines with the
Mt. Charlotte reservoir, but this month should see the
work completed and all the mines fully supplied. This
will mean a considerable reduction in working costs, and
in cost of repairs, as the mineralised salt, and even con-
densed, water is very destructive to pipes, fittings,
pumps, boilers, &c. The mines have contracted to take
500,000 gallons daily at 6s. per 1000, and to allow
their salt water to run to waste. As this salt-water
amounts to well on for half-a-million gallons a day,
and will be supplemented by the overflow of fresh from
the mines, Boulder City may shortly have to buy an ark
* * * *
Between May and October, Mt. Morgan slumped
over a million and a-quarter in market value. Partly, no
doubt, it was due to the reaction from the Charters
To\vers boom ; but it was due still more to the mine’s own
results. In the July-September three months of 1902 the
co. got 37,2080 z. of" gold from 58,401 tons ; in the same
time this year it got only 26,0650 z. from 62,354 tons. The
fall in value of stone averaged 17s. 6d. per ton. The
steam shovel is at work now getting off more of the over-
burden, and pressure is put on in a dozen places to
straighten matters a little.
The Miners’ Accident Relief Bill, introduced to
Queensland Assembly and carried to the second reading,
runs on much the same lines as the Act which has been
doing fine work in N.S.W. for two years past. The prin-
cipal a teration is in the proportion of the contributions ;
in N.S.W., the miner pays 4Jd. per week and the co. and
the Government add 4|d. between them ; in Queensland,
it is proposed that each shall pay 3d. Instead, also, of
each mine having its local committee of management, as
in N.S.W., it is proposed that one committee (elected by
holders of miners’ rights) should serve for each field.
* * * *
The first nine months of the past four years at
Bendigo compare like this :
Gold. Dividends. Calls.
1900.. 153,2900 z. £116,302 £84,480
1901 . 140,683 127,934 100,311
1902.. 136,414 134,800 100,658
1903.. 163,476 216,622 102,346
An excellent feature is the amount spent in development
work, partly from calls, partly from gold won. Principal
div.-payers of the year, so far, have been : S. New Moon
(355. per share), £56,000: Ulster United (255. 6d.),
£40,800; Great Northern (245.), £36,000 ; New Moon
(245.), £28,000.
'** * « *
Dear Bulletin. — Re Harvey Patterson’s con-
tention that the Mungana co.’s mine might be made to
pay if Asiatic labor could be employed. Might I suggest
that the desired object might be obtained if the present
board was replaced by an equal number of Hindoos?—
White Australia.
Ready next month— Hearts of Geld, an l
Other Verses, by Will H. Ogilvie. Price, 4s. Gd.
Order at once from Bulletin office.
N.S.W. certainly rolled up its forces man-
fully at the vote on the selection of a Federal
capital. Only one N.S.W. representative failed
to; turn up, while three Victorians and nine from
other States were absent.
“Steele Rudd’s” many admirers will be
glad to hear that The Bulletin publishes next
month another book of his —Our New Selection —
with many illustrations. Price, 6s. Order at
once from this office, and the book will be posted
to any address immediately on publication.
The S.M. Herald says proudly that
George Reid has “burnt his boats” and that
his recent language makes it “ impossible for him
to join hands either with Labor members or with
Mr. Kingston.” The S.M. Herald doesn’t do
justice to the dodging capacity of its tin god. At
the very time the ill-informed paper made that
remark Reid was negotiating for the support of
the Labor party, and if terms can be arranged he
will take back all his unpleasant.remarks and say
that he never made them. It is a ease of a long
worm for a small hole, and there are many small
holes in politics for the kind of politician who
ikes holes.
Phil May in Melbourne.
On Thursday next, the 29th, Messrs. Gemmell,
Tuokett, and Cos. will auction the 139 original
Pen-Drawings by Phil May, which were reserved
for sale in Melbourne, and were not exhibited in
Sydney last month.
Some of May’s finest work—in portrait-drawing,
in cartoon work, and in humorous illustration—is
included among the lots that Messrs. Gemmell,
Tuckett, and Cos. will dispose of next week. It
was in Melbourne that Phil May passed the last
months of his Australian life, sketching the local
celebrities and identities, studying character at
the Centennial Exhibition, and enjoying a lively
time. His fame was growing daily—his Art was
then “on its mettle. ”
Nobody of Melbourne note in 1888 escaped Phil
May’s kindly caricature. Among the portrait
drawings there are likenesses of John (now
Chief Justice) Madden, Alfred Deakin, J. L.
Purves, David Syme, Duncan Gillies, the
mercurial L. L. Smith, Dr. Neild, Haddon, of the
Argus, and Editor Winter, of the Herald, Fitz-
Gibbon, “Eureka” Lalor, David Gaunson, Dr.
Bromby, the Finks (Theodore and B. J.), Butters
the Indestructible, Thomas Bent the engine-
drivers’ idol, Benjy Benjamin, Police Com-
missioner Chomley, Surgeon Fitzgerald, Panton,
P.M., Bryan OLoghlen, and Salmon Wil-
son, coupled with Henniker Heaton. A por-
trait of George Coppin is a striking example of
the artist’s genius. Miss Amy Sherwin figures as
the famous Australian songstress of ’BB, and many
theatrical people, looking round G.T.’s gallery,
will pause at the portrait of “Billy Elton, as Ben
Barnacle. ”
Some of the aforenamed men of the period are
again drawn in the well-remembered picture,
“On the Melbourne Block.” There are two fine
pages of travel-sketches ; and some remarkable
drawings satirising British politics—with like-
nesses of Queen victoria, the Prince of Wales
(now King Edward), Gladstone, Lord Salisbury,
and others. And there is the last Xmas Number
Supplement that Phil May did for The Bulletin
—a charming series of sketches illustrating some
parody verses by Edmund Fisher, entitled
“ Measuring the Baby.” There are some striking
drawings dealing with English subjects, which it
was originally intended to reserve for English
sale.. The whole of these have now been added to
the Melbourne catalogue. A number of examples
have been lost or destroyed ; others have been
sold privately; and this auction sale will be the
last that it is possible to make. Once dispersed,
it is unlikely that the drawings will ever again be
collected for exhibition.
The drawings will be on view at the gallery of
Gemmell, Tuckett and Cos., 359 Collins-street,
Melbourne, from to-day, and will be offered for
sale at 2 p.m. on Thursday, the 29th. Judging
from.the interest taken in the approaching sale,
it is expected that a good many Cup visitors will
hasten their arrival in order to be present at the
artistic “function.”
At Poverty Point.
George Rign old’s mother was a Shakspearian actress.
She played Hamlet in her time, When you come to think
of it, her grand-daughter, Dora Rignold, might be pro-
posed as a suitable impersonatress of the Melancholy
Dane.
Irreverent item by a Maoriland pressman “ P.R. Dix,
boss of the vaudeville business in Maoriland, has decided
to stage Bert Royle’s panto, 1 The House That Jack Built,’
at the Royal, Wellington, on Boxing night, and for the
next few weeks will be actively employed inspecting the
underneaths of female candidates for personal exposure
in tights at Xmas.”
Hugh Ward, on his arrival in London, got an engage-
ment from Courtneidge, who will be running a Xmas
panto, at Liverpool Theatre Royal. Ward plays Dandini,
the Prince’s page, in “Cinderella.” Meanwhile, Carrie
Moore has been taken from the travelling “San Toy" co.
to fill a part in the gorgeous “ Sans GSne ” opera in
London, which Courtneidge was to “produce” (for
manager George Edwardes) some time this month. At
his suggestion the character was somewhat altered and
written-up, so as to give the lively Carrie a fair show.
“ J.A.0.” : Ada Orossley is said to have once studied
the part of Lazarillo, in “ Maritana,” with the late
Madame Fanny Simonsen, at a time when Martin of that
ilk was running a very successful season of elderly and
middle-aged opera, and it was proposed to produce the
opera with Miss Crossley in the cast. She tried on her
boy’s costume one day at Madame’s house at St. Hilda,
and Harcourt Lee, Simonsen’s chorus master, almost
wept with joy over her magnificent proportions, and said
he didn’t care if she could sing or not; those limbs alone
would fix up the faded old opera for a long run. How-
ever, I do not believe that the performance ever came off
—worse luck 1
The dash and vigor with which the leading man
grapples with wills, “marriage lines,” and other docu-
mentary properties—thereby necessitating a fresh sett
almost daily—has long been the despair of prompters.
One genius has succeeded in foiling the forceful actor
strips of tin, with paper glued back and front, are
substituted.
Boris Hambourg, when he left with brother Mark, took
away a little thing which Marshall Hall composed for the
’cello and the ’cellist. Both the Hambourgs think you
can’t meet anywhere a finer musician than Marshall Hall,
and it is to them a wonder surpassing all wonders that he
was kicked out of the Ormond Chair of Music. But if
they had taken the trouble to study the shining lights of
the University Council—the men with the cheesemonger
souls and the well-fed conversation—Boris and Mark
would have wondered not at all.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical'
chemist, Southampton, England.*
Somebody wrote to Melbourne Argus complaining-
that firstnightperformanc.es at Her Majesty’s are muchi
disturbed ly the men who go out between the acts and
return after the curtain is up. This sounds very like a-
female counterblast to the statement in Tiie Bulletin
that women are the principal offenders in this matter.
No male grumbler could overlook the processions of
lovely woman to and fro the spacious tea-rooms at Her'
Majesty’s.
Mr. J. E. BISHOP, Enterprise, Shelby C 0.,.
Mo., November 20, 1899, writes :
“ JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT SAVED MY LIFE whern
I was a boy, and I am still using it in my family.”*


The ONLY Belt that Cores
THOUSANDS TESTIFY TO THE EFFICACY OF
The FREEMAN & WALLACE “INVIGORATOR” BELT
If you suffer and need an Electric Belt, why purchase from electric belt
firms who have no competent electricians to advise you as to its wear or
probable effects upon you? Again, why purchase from firms who have no
qualified medical adviser? Why purchase from commercial salesmen who have
no medical knowledge of the effects of a belt upon your nerves? We claim that
the Freeman and Wallace Electric “ Invigorator” Belt is the only Electric Belt
sold in Australia under bona fide medical advice. It is locally manufactured
and certificated. Its price is £l, not Fifty. If you have bought a £2O belt from
any so-called belt vendors, bring it to us and we will enlighten you. It will pay
you to save your money. REMEMBER, THERE are SOME DISEASES AN ELECTRIC BELT ONLY AGGRAVATES.
Beware of ‘ Fake ’ Belts
The Public are cautioned
against the sale of “ Fake”
Belts sold at enormous
rates, ranging from £1 to
£3O and even 50 guineas,
without medical advice.
No man should wear an
Electric Belt unless ordered
to do so by a qualified medi-
cal man and electrician.
r
a
liiii mi
Dr. Richard Wallace.
♦
Our Physician=in=Chief,
Dr. R. Wallace, fI.D.;
L.R.C.P., E. ; L.F.P.S., E.;
L.M., diagnoses each case
and recommends Electricity
only where such treatment
will cure. He does not sell
a Belt solely for the sake
of sale. He is registered by
Australian, English and
American fledical Boards.
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE “INVIGORATOR” BELT, £1 only
Electrician’s Testimony.
Mr. ALBERT N. LIBBY, a famous elec-
trician, from Allis, Chalmers Co., the largest
Electrical firm in Amerioa, who supervised the
present electric cat system in Sydney, says of The
FREEMAN and WALLACE BELT:
11 1 have tested your c In-
vigorator’ Belt, and find it
gives a steady current of
good strength. lam certain
you have the finest Medical
Electric Belt in the world
to-day.
(signed) “ALBERT N. LIBBY.”
WONDERFUL DAILY CURES.
Every day we receive letters of gratitude from persons in all ranks
of life who have worn and been cured by our wonderful Electric
Belt, of such grave diseases as Insomnia, Epilepsy, Hysteria, Indi-
gestion, Dyspepsia, Spinal Affections, Bladder and Kidney Troubles,
etc., etc. It is the Sure Cure of any disease which is caused by
Lack of Nerve Force.
It gives New Xiife to Weak Men
It contains the Essence of Vitality which makes men strong.
Every spark from its batteries is a wave of life sweeping into the
system. It makes old men strong and young men manly. It
arrests at once the loss of Vital Power, re-invigorates every Nerve
and Fibre of the Body. Any man interested in cases peculiar to
men should read Dr. Wallace’s treatise on Electric’ty, contained in
his great Medical Work, “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES.” It
should be read by every man who wishes to be as strong as in the
days of his youth. Posted Free to all addresses on receipt of
Five Pe?tce In Stamps.
Testimonies of Cure.
MR. JAS. HAMMOND, of Kew, Victoria,
says :
“ I whs a physical wreck through many
causes, which baffled my doctors. One of
your One Found Electric Belts did me a
great deal of good, and was instrumental
in placing me on the road to health and
strength.”
MR. CHAS. BROWN, Darlinghurst, a martyr
to Insomnia, declares :
“It was an extraordinary thing for me
to have a sound sleep. The benefit I
received from the Electric Medicated
Current contained in your Belt was
wonderful. A week after using it I slept
as sweetly as a child.”
SPECIAL NOTE.— Every day we receive complaints from disappointed people who
have bought for £lO, £2O, and £5O what they were led to believe was an Electric Belt "as
good as The FREEMAN and WALLACE * INVIGORATOR ’ BELT,” only to find it a rank
and paltry imitation. If you have been taken down in this way, write us full particulars,
and we will GUARANTEE to GET YOUR MONEY BACK or its equivalent in value. This
applies to any article bought during the last two years. Be sure you state your case
plainly to us, and tell us how you came to pay so much money for such a Belt. It will be
worth your while to write to us. Beware of those alleging to sell the Freeman and
Wallace Electric Belt for 103., sold for One Pound Only. This is only a trick to promote
trade, and to work off an inferior belt. Beware of such a system which condemns itself.
The Freemans & Wallace
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., SYDNEY
The argument against compensation to
publicans, in the event of the State deciding to
abolish the traffic, comes badly from the mouths
of clerics and sons of clerics, who, when the State
decided to' abolish aid to religion, claimed pensions
for life, N.S.W. still pays thousands on that
score.
Not generally known that Kingston, whilst
S.A.; Premier, had a clause inserted in a Libel Aot
making it possible to haul any newspaper pro-
prietor, wilfully circulating false news, before a
police court to be summarily dealt with. Such &
provision, administered with Kingstonian sturdi-
ness in N.S.W. and Vic., would do wonderful
good.
Callistimon writes—
Re Western Division boundaries (8., 3/9/’O3), the situa
tion in the west is this In 1884 half of the runs were
resumed for small holdings. Owners of stations were
invited to send in plans showing which half would suit
them best, and an incompetent Minister dealt with them.
Result was that mallee and porcupine country, the land
furthest from towns and rivers, and without frontage—
in short, the worst land that could possibly be got for
small holders was what was offered to them. Of Lake
Victoria (1,400,000 acres) 700,000 acres were resumed, and
not one yard of frontage to permanent water.
Even the Maoriland system of repurchase
and subdivision of estates, backed up by assistance
from the State Land Bank, is hardly able to
counterbalance the natural modern tendency ot
landed estates to grow bigger by swallowing the l r
small neighbors. There are, in fact, 1799 fewer
M.L. country owners than there were 10 years
ago. The very big estates are fewer; but the
very small ones are fewer also. _ The only per-
manent remedy is to decide what is the maximum
area one owner should hold, and make l* l ® gradu-
ated land-tax so heavy above that point that le
holding of a greater area is impossible. And as
the population increases the possible area must
decrease.
“ Creagh ” writes
The Bulletin’s remarks about unnecessary municipal
Councils In N.S.W., remind me of a county councilor
which I had some experience in a sister State. It was tne
most farcical menagerie of hairiness and bad sprung~"
ever adjourned for beer ; and it had a habit of debating
in a chorus. At meetings the members provKled
with writing paper which they generally left covered with
cabalistic arrangements of noughts and crosses, or para-
lytic attempts to spell the commonest monosvßaoies.
The business of the county, which was on a pretty large
scale, was bossed by the clerk and the engineer, the coun-
cillors being mostly too ignorant to do anythmgbut what
they were told. But, although a body of men to whom
the' very first principles of good manners were niaaen
knowledge, they had grown quite accustomed to consider
themselves fine gentlemen, and to make grave remarks
about the “ dignity of the council."
“ Spring,” looking down from the gallery :
A noticeable feature about N.S.W. Legislative Council
is its go-as-you-pleaseness. In the Lower House, when a
member loses a place or forgets a word, he turns red ana
the Speaker almost bursts. In the Upper House the time
wasted while the honorable and prodigiously incapable
member stumbles around looking for the right page
would turn a civil servant green with envy. Members of
the Assembly have a look of expectancy—seem always
expecting the great Loan crash. The Councillors politi-
cally expect nothing. The President sits inert in a chair
four sizes too big for him. He looks like a huddled-up
mass of torpid contentment. The pink-and-purple old
gentlemen who totter, and ramble in their speech,
and repeat each other’s speeches, sit round with a
feeling that nothing matters their end is near.
The visitors’ gallery is crowded with empty chairs
looking like the skeletons of the House’s vanished youth.
Occasionally a lost stranger drifts in, sidles into a seat,
sees the old men staring up at him, nervously pretends
to take an interest in the proceedings, and sneaks out.
Then the ancients comfort themselves that they are
working under the public eye. A Land and Income Tax
Amending Bill is being discussed. Out of their retire-
ment the old men have rattled up in sociables and large,
safe broughams. One sits on a separate chair with
his thumb in his mouth, vainly trying to follow the
business. It was cruel to drag him forth, but the sacred
cause of Property was at stake. While the majority of
them are shockingly out of place as legislators, there are
a few to whom it is a pleasure to listen ; these have been
put there, seemingly, to show up more thoroughly the
shocking dodderiness of the others. There is probably
no one in Australian public life better fitted to deal with
the Council than B. R. Wise. Distinguished-looking,
able, virile, bland, Barney goes straight to the old men’s
hearts. If he can, he leads them by argument. More
often he gets there by flattery. Nothing makes the
House of Dodder preen itself and strut around more
ridiculously than to be told, in Barney’s most cultured
manner, that “ it is a valuable and necessary portion of our
free Constitution.’’ A Councillor reminds one of the cob-
webs on ancient wine bottles. The wine within is just as
good without the cobwebs, but they give it an aged,
crusted appearance; and, unfortunately, Australia’s
mind still has an antique twist.
Laborist Keir Hardie in North American
•Review
Sir H. Campbell-Bannerman, the leader of the Liberal
party, in a recent speech, declared his belief that twelve
millions of our population were always living at, or Under,
the poverty line. In plain language, this means that
twelve millions of the British people are improperly fed,
insufficiently clothed, and inadequately housed. The
census returns tell us that 480,277 houses of one room are
registered in England, Scotland, and Wales, and that
these contain a living population of 1,571,504. From one
to two rooms is a very short step in' the" social scale,
but on the same authority from which we have just
quoted, we learn that 44 per cent, of the people of Scot-
land are accommodated in houses of one or two rooms.
Speaking with a great deal of practical experience, I
assert that in three cases out of five the householder of
two rooms will be found to be indulging in one or two
lodgers, from which it follows that a worse form of over-
crowding occurs than when there is only one apartment.
With this condition of things staring them in the face,
with no hope perceivable of any improvement, there is no
wonder that the more thoughtful leaders of the working
class have made up their minds to see how far a Labor
party can be instrumental in securing reforms.
Maffra (Vic.), the home of the dead-beet
anti-Federal-Capital movement, has more than
one public robbery to its discredit. In addition
to the sugar-beet factory, it lobbied out of the
Victorian Government a bush-shanty railway line
to somewhere in the back country, which is one of
the worst-paying of Victoria’s many hopeless
branches.


THE AUSTRALIAN ATTITUDE.
[FROM THE LONDON “TIMES ,” AUGUST 31,
1903.]
Australia has been perhaps more dis-
cussed of late than any other British
colony, both by investors who want to lend
money to it, and by politicians who for
Imperial purposes want to get money from
it. The one party is inclined to consider
it extravagant, the other laments its stin-
giness; both appeal to its “loyalty,” as
an argument relevant to the matter in
hand. It is possibly worth while, there-
fore, to consider what sort of plaoe Aus-
tralia really is, and what people inhabit
it; to appreciate more carefully the con-
ditions under which they live, and their
normal atttude towards outside affairs,
and so to understand a little better how
far the arguments and influences which
appeal to us have a like, or any, effect
upon them.
The Englishman of the home islands is
apt to believe in his heart that there is
only one pattern of Englishman—the pat-
tern by which he himself was cut. In
Canada, however, and in South Africa he
will admit (when he thinks of it) that
the influence of other white races and
the neighborhood of other civilized forms
of government have somewhat modified
conditions, and that the English settler in
Ontario or Natal may for that reason not be
a simple replica of the Londoner. But
he knows of no such influence in Austra-
lia; there, he thinks, in a continent un-
vexed by international politics and savage
wars, the English race breeds true to the
old stock, self-governing according to the
race’s approved institutions, disturbed only
by a malign force called the “Labor par-
ty,’’ that seems allied to the socialism of
Europe. Ealing and West Middlesex tem-
porarily under the thumb of Battersea and
West Ham—that idea of Australia, if not
avowed by nine men out of ten, is at any
rate implied in the fashion of their talk
about it and of the letters they write to
the ; London papers. It is not altogether
easy to blame them: they judge by what
they see.
THE AUSTRALIAN WHO LIVES IN ENGLAND.
But the Australians one meets in Eng-
land are of two types mainly, and neither
helps one much to understand his fellows
oversea. The politician is always with us,
chosen for his position either because his
predilections put him in touch with Eng-
lish feeling or because his conservatism
has put him out of touoh with Australian
feeling—for the reasons, that is, which
once made Lord Lytton ambassador to
France and sent Sir Stafford Nortbcote
to the House of Lords. We have with us
nowadays also the rich men come home
to enjoy their wealth—the squatters, alas!
too few, the mining speculators, perhaps
too many; and they are, from the very
nature of things, even less inclined to
sympathise with the mass of the people
whom they are here supposed to repre-
sent^
To say this is in no way to dispraise
them; it is one of Australia’s most set-
tled misfortunes to be little influenced by
the men whose guidance would be best
worth having; but if we are to under-
stand a nation we must study the major-
ity and the leaders it chooses, not those
who have left their country because either
they are disgusted with the majority or
the majority is tired of them.
THE AUSTRALIAN WHO VISITS ENGLAND.
The typical Australian rarely comes to
England. He is not rich enough, or not
interested enough. When he does come
—as one of a Lancer squadron, or with
manuscripts or mines to sell, or for a
snatched holiday among the art galleries
—he looks around him with a child’s curi-
ous eyes, sees half the outsides of things,
has sudden insights into the true mean-
ing of some facts we take too much for
granted, says little to us, and is all the
more voluble at home. We feel sure we
have impressed him—not in the least sus-
pecting how. He believes he has got at
the truth about us; and his version of
things seen sideways, never revised, and
soon, expanded by a bold imagination, is
spread widely among his comrades, to be-
come the plaything of untutored and half-
malicious fantasy. We hopefully take
him for a docile child; he is apt to think
us as clumsily cunning, as stupid, and as
greedy as are giants in fairy tales. Both
estimates are wrong, but one not more so
than the other. Here are the elements of
a very pretty misunderstanding—one
which, but for the late war, would have
already had serious results; which will yet
have very serious results, if we persist in
believing that a war which we have more
than half forgotten is likely to be longer
remembered with enthusiasm at the Anti-
podes.
THE AUSTRALIAN IN AUSTRALIA.
Who, then, is the “typical Australian”?
I do not mean the best type, I mean
the ordinary type; for our business is
with the mass of citizens whose voice
makes Australian policy.
At once we are brought face to face
with an effect of Federation which has not
yet been , clearly understood. Ten years
ago the politics of the several States were
decided for them, each in its own chief
town. Sydney governed New South
Wales; Melbourne, one may almost say,
was Victoria; the interests of Brisbane
were supreme in the Queensland Legis-
lature, except when some more northern
seaport made itself disagreeable in the
hope of beooming anew colony’s capital.
In each case a concentrated population of
seaport townsfolk held its own with ease
against the scattered and disunited bush
electorates; and townsfolk—seaport folk
more especially—are much alike through-
out British territories. The various classes
live together in bulk; thedr profession or
trade dominates them, rather than their
place of abode. Lawyer discusses burn-
ing questions with lawyer, merchant with
merchant, bricklayer with bricklayer, be
it in Sydney or Toronto or Brisbane; in
each place, as a rule, they oome to the
lawyer’s or merchant’s or bricklayer’s con-
clusion. Furthermore, the element of situ-
ation in Sydney politics, when it did in-
trude, came not so much from having New
South Wales behind iit as from having
Melbourne just round the comer; in rail-
way-making, for instance, the Sydney Leg-
islature’s object was rather to secure a
district’s trade for Sydney (as against Mel-
bourne) than to develop it for the good
of the colony at large. The country dis-
tricts grumbled, but had not sufficient
union among themselves to make very act-
ive opposition. So lines were constructed,
and rates were fixed, to the great advan-
tage of the Sydney middleman; and the
use of the railways to carry Sydney news-
papers up country free of charge helped
the process of concentration still further,
by stifling the growth of an independent
provincial Press.
THE TWO AUSTRALIANS.
Ten years ago, therefore, or even later,
the typical Australian for political pur-
poses was the townsman —a man eminent-
ly parochial, as all townsmen are, but
swayed (when his own town’s interests
were not specially concerned) by much the
same influences as affect, say, Liverpool.
The politicians, indeed—we shall come to
them later—are a class apart. But the
professional men and merchants and trades-
people and artisans are of the type we
know, and the “Labor” members of Sydney
or Melbourne, or even Broken Hill, do
not differ widely from those whom Bat-
tersea and the Welsh miners send, or
would like to send, to Westminster. The
Legislatures, roughly speaking, consisted
of a Lower House, something like a Lon-
don borough council, and an Upper House,
resembling an enlarged Bench of not too
enlightened county magistrates. These
were the people with whom travellers (dis-
tinguished ones especially) came into con-
tact, a,nd whom British statesmanship had
to take into account.
Federation has considerably altered all
this. For seven States, each ruled by a
compact body of townsfolk taking advan-
tage of divided country districts, it is
substituting one Commonwealth, ruled by
a fairly compact body of country folk tak-
ing advantage of the divisions between
the large towns. The change is by no
means complete yet. The country party
does not know its own strength. It did
not at the first elections appreciate tho
greatness of its gain in having an Upper
House chosen by manhood suffrage instead
of by Ministerial nomination or by the
restricted suffrages of some States. Still
leaderless, distrusting alike the Sydney
freetraders and the protectionist manu-
facturers of Melbourne, it is inclined to
join with the “Labor” members of the
towns, with whom it has certain definite
aims in common. The Queenslander, who
wants a white Australia, and therefore
demands the stoppage of Kanaka labor in
his State, is easily persuaded to accept as
part of his programme the abolition of
Lascar labor in mailboats, which is purely
a trade union question of seaport inter-
est. There are Socialist leagues in the
cities, whose doctrine the average bush-
man will repudiate if you challenge him;
but in the actual laws they propose he
sees immediate advantage, and so joins
hands with them over matters of practical
politics without feeling himself thereby
committed to their political or philosoph-
ical views. He is not necessarily for that
reason a Socialist- he may not even be
a trade unionist. If he sees no advantage,
he is just as ready to oppose “Labor ”;
the Victorian farmers, jealous of town ag-
grandisement, have joined the Conserva-
tives against tihe city Labor Party there.
He is just an up-country Australian bring-
ing into politics the methods of his daily
life.
THE BUSHMAN —THE BIG, GROWN CHILD.
What his daily life is no one knows who
has not shared it. It has never been
completely put into writing. Henry Law-
son has oome nearest to doing that, but
most of his work deals rather with the
varying fantastic kaleidoscope of the road-
side and inn verandah than with the mon-
otonous and lonely round of bush work.
Observers who watch him are apt to make
too little of his troubles, because they
do not seem to have broken his spirit;
observers who mark his surroundings—
their oomfortlessness, their continual pet-
ty tragedy—often make too melancholy a
picture of him.
His life is one long struggle with the
unexpected, that stiffens his self-depend-
ence and cultivates his sense of humor.
Whatever his racial characteristics may be
—Scot, or Erse, or the dogged, half-intelli-
gent persistence of the Englishman—they
are moulded to one shape by stress of
this fact, that he lives beneath a sky which
gives him no sure rainfall, upon a soil
too porous to hold for any length of time
the rain that may come. So he be.comes
a gambler and a nomad; he wagers his
year’s work against the caprices of Na-
ture, and, if he loses, goes far afield with
a (comparatively) light heart to try his
luck elsewhere. Above all, in such sur-
roundings he remains perpetually a child.
He is bound to go tentatively, step by
step, through a world whose laws he does
not understand, and he brings to bear- on
it a child’s wide-eyed inquisitiveness, a
child’s fearless bearing in situations whose
real danger is hidden from him, a child’s^
irrepressible enthusiasm for ideas that will
be forgotten in a week. Like a child, he
is good at makeshifts, and often prefers
them to more permanent arrangements..
And he is especially like a child in this,
that his code of social ethics is based on
the family. The bush folk are of his
family, every one of them ipso facto a
mate of his, to be welcomed and treated
as such unless some meanness demands ex-
pulsion; outsiders are for that very reason
to be suspected, people to whom he owes
few or no duties except that of hospitality
—though the best of them may, after due
trial made, be admitted among his com-
rades. Within that family it is the car-
dinal virtue to be “straight,” and proper-
ty is shared to an extent that might al-
most be called oommunism. What goes
on outside, interests the bushman immense-
ly when he has time to think of it, but
not necessarily as a matter affecting him-
self ; he regards most of politics in this
light, and has been known to send a mem-
ber to Parliament much as a boy puts
pennies in the slot of some mechanical de-
vice—just to see what will happen. The
part of political affairs which does unmis-
takably affect him is in his mind a form
of weather, to be used or endured as sun
and rain are, without ethical scruples;
he revels in great loan expenditure as in
good rains, and bears taxation with the
same spirit that carries him through
drought.
COMRADESHIP V. COMPETITION.
Some day, no doubt, he will grow up.
He will learn that Parliaments are not
meant solely for the provision of bridge-
building or scrub-cleaning jobs, or even
for the ensuring of higher wages to shear-
ers. He will learn to regard life with
more forethought and less cheerfulness, to
strive cunningly for what he wants in-
stead of requiring it openly, to be more
lavish of his assurances and stingier with
his enthusiasm. Politicians will find him
easier to deal with, perhaps, when his
mind is filled with a belief, not in com-
radeship, but in competition.
For my part, I prefer him as he is. But,
for all who value him as a part of the
Empire, who wish to keep him in it for
its sake more than for his own, to leaven
with his fine youthfulness our middle-aged
civilization, that very youthfulness has
one great disadvantage. These child’s
qualities of his include the most perilous
quality of all; he is so much misunder-
stood, and so resentful of being misunder-
stood, that he accepts whole-heartedly, and
without examination, the friendship and
advice of any one who seems genuinely
sympathetic. Once convince him that you
have some skill in his pursuits and some
share, in his feelings, and you gain a hold
on him that may never be shaken off.
Wherefore he is prone at times to fall
among strange friends and under influ-
ences not altogether desirable.
“ THE BULLETIN ” : IMPORTANT, DANGEROUS,
BEYOND SUSPICION, CANDID, GRIM.
Among these influences the most import-
ant—and most dangerous—is that of The
Bulletin. It is hard to over-estimate the
extent to which thia journal modifies the
opinions (one might almost say the char-
acter) of its readers. Most Australian
newspapers alter no one’s opinion, being
read only by those who already agree with
them; one or two only—the Melbourne
Age is the most notable example—have at
times directed from their editorial chair
the policy of Ministries. But this has
come about beoause their readers know
Who is talking. The organ (real or sup-
posed) of some “ ring ” or clique is suspected ;
the organ controlled by a single man and
used to express his personal views becomes
for that reason credible, and sometimes
convincing. The Bulletin is beyond sus-
picion in these matters; its editorial col-
umns express the definite beliefs of two
or three individuals whom its readers
know—not of any party; its candor verges
on the cynioal, but the Australian has no
objection to humor in his politics or
grimness in his jests. Moreover, it is con-
sistent and persistent; its policies are not
shaped by the rise and fall of parties or
by the vagaries of individual politicians;
it will back any man, just so far as he
will carry out some fragment of,its pro-
gramme and not an inch further; and,
above all, it insists that each of these
fragments is a part of a definite, well-or-
dered plan. Thus every valuable measure
it advocates (and it has advocated many)
becomes one more step towards its ulti-
mate goal; and the bushman, deeply im-
pressed by a steadfastness and a disregard
of personalities, which he does not natur-
ally share, is being led to accept Federa-
tion and honest finance as arguments in
favor of independence and a republic.
That in its most pronounced form is
The Bulletin’s desire. To that consumma-
tion all its efforts are bent. For guiding
mein’s minds in that direction it finds no
casuistry too subtle, no caricature too
gross. (One thinks, indeed, that its own
vehemence has often damaged! the cause
it backs.)
“JOHN BULL-COHEN.”
With all its eloquence, literary and pic-
torial, it strives to make the bushman
believe in John Bull-Cohen, the griping
moneylender, the slave-driver, the nation
whose only interest in anything human or
divine is centred in its money value. Ava-
rice and treachery, cowardice and stupid
meanness, all the vices the bushman hates
most, are combined in the Bull-Cohen mon-
ster. There is no sneer, remember, at the
race to which the Australian mainly be-
longs ; The Bulletin’s point is that the
Briton no longer governs himself in Eng-
land—that he is here the victim of greedy
British financiers, and that his kin in Aus-
tralia should cut loose before the same
grip is irrevocably tightened on them.
It would seem that so gross a carica-
ture must defeat its own ends. It does,
in fact, hinder them. But we must re-
member that it is there in front of the
hushman’s eyes week after week. He may be
(I cannot say that he always is) indignant
at first, scornful after a little; then he
gets used to it, passes it oyer, accepts it
as a part of the paper, like the color of
the cover. Still, it is there! Then some
little thing happens, some awkward phrase
is quoted from a London newspaper, some
trifling friction occurs between the Im-
perial. Government anid a State Ministry;
at once it is symbolized by clever artists
in anew attribute of Bull-Cohen, and the
caricature is brought in the bushman’s
mind one degree nearer reality.
DETESTED, YET READ.
Other influences, too, are at work. The
Bulletin is not a political journal only;
it is the nurse and the critic, sometimes
severe but sometimes friendly, of every
young Australian who wants to write about
the things he feels and sees. It will print,
and pay for, anything connected with Aus-
tralia that is put clearly or said well, be
it love-verse or snake-story, or note on
the habits of a blackfellow tribe. It is
read for this reason by very many who
detest its politics: and they, too, have
under their eyes week by week the grue-
some features of Bull-Oohen.
Moreover, in political matters the edit-
or’s lead is not often unmistakably fan-
atic and wrong-headed. It was The Bul-
letin that, when Bourke teamsters rioted
against the competition of camels driven
by Pathans, told them plainly (and got it-
self much disliked therefor) that they
might object to Pathans in the name of
a white Australia, but that camels had
come to stay. It was The Bulletin that
educated hush Australia up to Federa-
tion.
THE ONE PAPER THAT PREACHES HONEST
FINANCE.
It is The Bulletin that has steadily
preaohed honest finance; that has year
after year denounced tiie rottenness of
using loan money for repairs and insigni-
ficant non-reproduotive public works; tnat
has persistently told the Labor party,
“It is your duty, not only to insist on free
education and old-age pensions, and the
minimum wage for Government employees,
but to see also that the necessary funds
are provided by straightforward taxation
and by economy in non-essential matters.”
Here are two extracts from a recent lead-
er, worth studying as a sample of what
this journal teaches and demands from
its foiiowers :
The Bulletin led 'the way in denounc-
ing the borrowing policy, the hush-it-up
policy, the policy of drift, the policy of
being a financial ostrich and burying
this country’s joint and several head in
the* sand. It was the first paper to per-
sistently declare that the Australian
wasn’t necessarily a poor, feeble, helpless
being, unable to get on without per-
petual loans; that he was as good a
man—if he only knew it—as the Dane,
or the Boer, or the Prussian, and as
able to pay his own way, and keep his
national finances clean; that this “coun-
try of magnificent natural resources”
could pay for its own roads and bridges
and court-houses and asylums, and do its
repairs to public buildings, and buy
crockery for the Jeinolan accommoda-
tion house, without pawning itself to
Bull for money- and that a regular an-
nual deficit and a constant cooking of
the accounts, and an interminable whin-
ing about our inability to pay taxes,
and a persistent lie to the effect that
benevolent asylums and dredging opera-
tions and the like are “permanent and
reproductive works” were not necessarily
a part of the Australian character. It
was the first paper which pointed out,
in and out of season, that a country
with the biggest debt per head on this
earth was in a dangerous situation, and
that the perpetual increase of that debt
must mean national insolvency, just as
surely as the perpetual getting worse of
a man who is already ill must mean
death. It was the first paper to de-
clare that the helpless frame of mind
induced by constant dependence on loans
waa preparing the way for repudiation.
For ten years or more The Bulletin has
constantly advocated, not the repudia-
tion, but the repayment of our public
debt, and it has stood almost alone in
holding the theory that the Australian
was as capable of independence as the
Frenchman, or the Yankee, or the Ger-
man
There is no easy remedy for the trou-
ble. It is ,the result of 30 jears of
steadily increasing folly, of silly braying
about imaginary, riches, of refusal to
pay sufficient taxes to keep the country
sqlvent, of insane extravagance and in-
competence. The only honest way back
p,ow is the long, hard road uphill. If
the Australian Government will take
over the existing State debts (also if
the silly, parochial vanity of ihe Stato
Governments;will let it do so) and pledge
itself (the State Governments joining in
the pledge) to borrow no more till they
are paid off, a.nd will establish even a
small sinking fund for their repayment,
it can probably renew the old loans, even
now as they fall due at such a reduction of
interest as will itself more than cover
the sinking fund. After that it will re-
main for the States to cut off every item
of needless expenditure (the hospital
subsidy and the old-age pension vote are
not needless expenditure and are not
included), to sack their agents-general,
to reduce their legislatures .to one House
each, to put up with a plain lieutenant-
governor each at £IOOO a year, to sup-
press the blatant draper who wants £75


pof
'MATURES
PLEASANT,
LAXATIVE’*
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE.
Nature’s Pleasant Laxa-
tive, is a perfect remedy
for Constipation, In-
digestion, Biliousness,
and all kindred ailments,
pleasant to the taste and
prompt, gentle, and
thorough in action.
The genuine bears the Name and Trade
Mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.,
32 Snow Hill, London, E.C., and Is sold
in Australia in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
Australia: 7 Barrack Street, SYDNEY.
Q. A#
Q- I have been feeling very poorly lately, and have just been told by my doctor that I am suffer-
ing from uric poisoning. I shall be glad if you will tell me just what uric poisoning means. Is it a
serious matter ?
P. oisonin ? is caused by the retention in the blood of various substances which should
leave the body in solution. The retention of these substances is due to a diseased or inactive condi-
tion of the kidneys. When the kidneys are working perfectly, they filter and extract from the blood
of the average individual about three pints of urine every day. In this quantity of urine should be
dissolved various waste material produced by the wear and tear of the tissues of the body. This is
dead matter, and its presence in the blood is poisonous. The three pints of normal urine should con-
tain about ten grains in weight of uric acid, an ounce of urea, together with other animal and mineral
matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
Q. Then I am to understand that the substances you mention when not eliminated from the body
m th® natural manner constitute what is known as uric poisoning. What are the usual symptoms bv
which the presence of these poisons is manifested ?
A. Now you are asking a rather large question. Many complaints which are commonly called
diseases are not actually diseases in themselves. For instance, Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia
J* u “ l hag , o, Sciatica, Gravel, Stone, and Bladder Troubles, are all caused by uric poisons'
Indigestion, Anaemia, Persistent Headache and General Debility are often solely due to
the same cause. In fact, if the kidneys are doing their work freely and thoroughly, none of the
complaints mentioned could trouble us as the causative poisons would be absent.
Q. I had no idea that so much depended upon the efficient action of the kidneys. I suppose
that when anyone is suffering from Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Sciatica
Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles, Anaemia, Debility, Persistent Headache or
Indigestion, the scientific method of effecting a cure would be to directly treat the patient for the
kidneys ?
Exactly. In fact, that is the only way in which a radical and permanent cure can be effected
I he kidneys must be restored to health and activity, so that they may be enabled to remove the daily
production of poisons in the body, or the patient must continue to suffer.
Q. I have always been under the impression that the liver had a great deal to do with the
maintenance of our general health, but it seems that the kidneys are the chief cause of most of the
disorders from which we suffer?
A. The work done by the liver is of the utmost importance and it is closely associated with the
work done by the kidneys. Indeed, when anything is the matter with the liver the kidneys are almost
always directly affected, and the contrary is likewise true. In the liver various substances are actually
made from the blood. Iwo or three pounds of bile are thus made every day. The liver takes sugar
from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to
the blood, gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is
insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles
which have lived their life and are useful no longer.
Q. As the functions of the kidneys and liver are so intimately related, I gather that if there is
reason to suspect that either organ is not doing its work efficiently, a curative agent should be
employed which would act equally upon the kidneys .and liver?
A. Yes, that is the case, and it wa3 the realization of this important fact which lead to the dis-
covery of that invaluable medicine Warner’s Safe Cure. About thirty years ago, certain medical
men, knowing that if they could find a medicine which would beneficially affect alike the kidneys and
liver, they could control most of the common disorders, devoted themselves to the search for such a
remedy., After many disappointments, their efforts were rewarded, and a medicine now known as
Warner s bafe Cure was proved to possess the required properties in the fullest degree. Warner’s
Safe Cure has a marvellously stimulating and healing effect upon both the kidneys and liver and
by restoring those vital organs to health and activity, it necessarily cures all disorders due to the
retention in the blood of urinary and biliary poisons, such as
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
Even Bright’s Disease, probably the most fatal of all diseases, yields to treatment by
Warner’s Safe Cure.
A great feature, too, is that cures affected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simnlv because
they are natural. ' 1 J
paper money do to a large extent in
nl ice of gold, and apply the gold in
reduction of our outside debts, to manu-
facture more and import less, to tax the
big landlords of Victoria, Queensland,
Tasmania, and Westralia, to levy a heavy
impost on the absentee, to promote ■'of-
tlement by cutting up big estates, to
make the country districts pay for their
own roads and culverts, and by these
and other devices for the Six States to
find about £7,009,000 a year out of re-
venue for public works purposes. Such
a course as that will “restore confi-
dence.” All the anger of John See and
the indignant remonstrances of Henry
Copeland won’t. But the habits of help-
lessness and dependence which the loan
policy has established make it veiy im-
probable that Australia will face the
uphill track now.
I have quoted thus at length because
the first extract is entirely true and the
second is characteristic of The Bulletin’s
blend of policy.
A PAPER WHOSE INFLUENCE GROWS DAILY.
When we remember that the Australian
likes straight talk, and that no other
paper has the habit of such straight talk
as this; that the ideal it insists on, of
a country free from mortgages, is the
ideal which every drought-stricken selector
hopes for as he hopes for heaven; that
the people it holds up to soortn are those
whom the bushman already abhors—the
absentee, the useless official, the legislator
who will sell his vote—'need we wonder
that this paper’s influence grows daily,
that rebuffs (such as those it suffered in
the earlier war-days) do it no permanent
harm, and that its most extravagant as-
sertions come dangerously near accept-
ance in the minds of a majority of Aus-
tralians ?
A SORT OE DEVIL’S CONSCIENCE.
Some will think, no doubt, that this is
making too much fuss about a single news-
paper!—though no one will who knows the
hush. In any case, it was worth while to
discuss this one at length, because it is
the summing up of the anti-imperial
spirit.
We in England are apt to think that
the expressed loyalty of Legislatures and
the daily Press is the unanimous voice of
a continent, and that the cry separa-
tion may be neglected as mere socialist
and demagogic bitterness. At any rate,
we believe, nothing can alter such patriot-
ism as the Common wealth displayed dur-
ing the late war. But the history of that
outburst has yet to be written. It was
a spasm of intense feeling, preceded by—
and likely to be succeeded by—a period
of growing indifference to things outside
the Southern Pacific; and all through it,
like the voice of a sort of devil’s con-
science, the bushman heard his Bulletin
murmuring persistently, “Yes, yes, you’re
a little excited now, but you will get over
it, and then you’ll see what a fool you
have made of yourself.” No Britom likes
to think he has played the fool rampant-
ly, and the Australian is already uneasy
about his recent behavior. If we, from
ignorance or from stupidity, play into the
hands of his Anti-British mentors, we may
find him marching out of the house in
a huff before we know that any dispute
has really begun.
THE “bulletin” MORE AUSTRALIAN THAN THE
PARLIAMENTS.
For we shall be trusting no doubt to
Ministerial statements and the resolutions
of Assemblies. And it must never be for-
gotten that in Australia Ministers and As-
semblies do not necessarily represent the
opinions of the electors, except in mat-
tern which they were expressly elected to
deal with. At an election there may be
no important issue raised; in that case
the voter chooses a candidate whom he
likes personally, or one whom he thinks
best fitted to secure for his district a
ran share of public money. Or there may
° 0 im Portant issue; in that case the
° a x d i dat6 18 c k° SGII as representing the
voter’s personal views of that issue, In
that point (and in connexion with the dis-
tribution of public money) the elected
member is pledged to vote as his electing
majority desire; on other matters he is
usually left free to do as he will; but
ms actions do not bind his constituents.
He can vote and talk as he likes, how-
ever much _ they disagree with him, until
the point in dispute becomes one of im-
mediate importance in their minds; then
jj ik® about his business. Thus
suddenly fell nearly all the State Minis-
tries in 1899, after holding offioe for a
period unheard of before; they hadl been
Kept m power to carry through Federa-
tion, and might do what else they liked
till it was safe—but not afterwards. So,
too, none of its other virtues will save
the present Commonwealth Ministry if its
increase of the naval subsidy happens to
occupy a prominent place in the mind of
InL V °i e j S ' £ o ’ cony ersely, The Bulletin
pported a Conservative Ministry during
o- e in Tasmania, because
• j Le^ i is s ’ s financial policy was to
its mind—not thereby prejudicing its right
o attack him later on with respect to
eiy other plank in his platform. And
so the unanimous lip-loyalty of seven As-
semblies may mean, very little. Their
constituents may agree with them, in
which case everything is satisfactory; or
may n ot agree with them, in which case
no protest will he made until loyalty bo
w 6 ® n burning question. Then the pro-
Iwi Wll l i sudd , en and severe. But we
shah not know that there is going to be
, we attend only to official speeches,
or to that summary of daily Press opin-
resn<wilchf 1S /t cable S ram sand cor-
espondents of London papers usually pro-
vide for our instruction.
THE INFLUENCES FOE SEPARATION —
How can such a protest be averted, and
how much we counteract the influences
which work for separation? (I assume
that we do not want separation; if we do,
we nay be quite content with things as
they are.) Not, certainly, by denying
their existence or minimizing their im-
portance; not by asserting that no one
troubles about the opinions of the most
widely ead journal in Australia, or abus-
ing those opinions in bulk as mere ranting
Socialism. The essence of the danger lies
in this—that the arch-Separatists combine
with their Bull-Cohen extravagance, plaus-
ible and often sound direction on matters
purely Australian, while the loudest shout-
ing for the Imperial connexion comes from
those who first (as in New South Wales)
pile up their State debt with unconscion-
able borrowings and then (as in Victoria)
try to readjust their finances by niggardly
retrenchment in the money-earning bran-
ches of the public service.
Any one who will inquire into the earn-
ings (actual and probable) of New South
Wales branch lines—called for loan pur-
poses “reproductive”—or into the recent
administration of Victorian railways, will
soon understand what the last sentence
means. And the remedy is, by changes of
Ministry or of policv to dissociate Imper-
ialism from bad local administration. The
Australian, more than most people, pro-
ceeds from the known to the unknown;
he judges of men’s trustworthiness in
things outside his knowledge mainly by
thear skill in matters on which he is
an expert. An Australian Bishop once
met a squatter of his diocese to whose dis-
trict he had recently sent anew curate.
“Look here, my lord.” the squatter burst
out, “I wouldn’t trust him with a flock
of scrubbers across the home paddock; do
you think I’ll trust him with my immor-
tal soiil?’’ Nor is the bushman likely to
trust much, in matters of high policy, meu
whom he believes negligent or wrong-
headed in State affairs.
AND THE REMEDY.
This remedy, however, is for application
in Australia by the men out there; what
is there for us to do in England? In the
first place, it may be said, we have to
revise our standards of “loyalty,” and to
alter our attitude towards the rest of the
Empire. If the Australian is a child in
many of his ways—his easily hurt pride,
his intense but temporary devotions, his
quick forgettings, his unexpected points
of view—we seem sometimes to have
reached an age at which relatives find one
more burdensome and far less attractive.
One knows people who have grown so self-
centred, so incapable of conceiving any
other centre of their world, that with the
kindest possible intentions they make fam-
ily life unbearable. They sincerely believe
that all their children are happiest when
serving them. “I would not for the world,”
says such a parent, “leave one wish of
my child’s unsatisfied • but dear Dora cares
for nothing but my comfort.” And dear
Dora, if she is not crushed out of indi-
viduality altogether one day flares up un-
accountably and runs away, much to the
scandal of the neighbors and the surprise
of a loving and forgiving mother.
THE TRUE IMPERIAL CREED.
Perhaps the first article of the true Im-
perial creed should run thus:—“The colo-
nies do not belong to Eingland. They, and
England, belong to the Empire.” If that
is our creed, we have an unhappy knack
of seeming to disbelieve it. It certainly
is the creed of the colonies; if we wish
to argue Imperial matters with them, we
must either accept it as ours or try to
alter their belief in it. To ignore it only
makes matters worse. To say, “But you
are England’s; think of what you owe to
the Englishmen who founded you,” pro-
vokes the easy retort: “We are the sons
of those Englishmen, and know what we
owe to them. You are the sons of the
Englishmen who did not found colonies—
what do we owe to you?” To talk about
loyalty brings up the question, “Loyalty
to what P” and if he say, “To the Empire,”
one answer is, “Let the Empire, then,
judge of our loyalty”; the significance of
which is not understood till we appreciate
how great an intimacy has sprung up dur-
ing war-time between the men of all Bri-
tish colonies. England is still t'he head
of the family, no doubt; but the headship
is now not so much that of a father among
his small children as that of the eldest
son among younger brothers.
HUMOR HIM A LITTLE—
It will be also worth our while to study
colonial feeling more closely, and to let
sentiment have its way sometimes, even
in the face of logic. We are not really a
logical people, though we sometimes ap-
peal to logic when it is quite in our fav-
or. . Thus we chose the time when Aus-
tralia was rather proud of itself for having
given men and money in an Imperial cause
to demand a larger contribution towards
the joint permanent naval expenditure.
Logic in this case was so much on our
side that some of us (in the name of Im-
perial Federation, too!) have been anxious
to cry “Pay or part company!”—a dan-
gerous challenge indeed. But simultane-
ously we were illogical enough to require
that the Australian section of the Fleet
should not be tied down to the defence of
Australian ports at the very moment when
we were creating a Home Squadron for
the express purpose of defending English
ports. There may have been excellent
reasons for adopting both courses, but
their concurrence is unfortunate in the im-
pression it makes on the colonial mind.
Nothing could well he more logical than
a certain tax on tea of which historians
tell us; and few acts of British legisla-
tion have been more ill-judged.
Again, we might take account of the
fact that Australians are very suspicious
of decorated and betitled politicians.
Rightly or waiongly, they have been led
to the conclusion that knighthoods and
K.C.M.G.’s are payment for services ren-
dered (or to be rendered) to the Imperial
Government; and the best men in Aus-
tralian political life now either decline
these honors suavely or accept them with
ldsgiving. Of course, such suspicions are
unjust and wrong: but by understand-
ing and humoring them a little we might
at least manage not to weaken the influ-
ence of our friends.
AND TRY 'lO KNOW HIM BETTER.
However, to examine in detail possible
alterations in our own behaviour is beyond
tne scope of this article. It is a plea for
closer study, rather than an attempt to
forecast the conclusions of that study. No
two. people see the same rainbow ; I do
not suppose that every student will see
the Australian just as I have seen him.
I have, maybe, laid stress too exclusively
on the distinctive points in his character,
slurring the question how far they are
modified by the more ordinary qualities
common to all the race. The picture drawn
here may not be the whole truth; it is
the truth, and nothing but the truth.
These are motives, and among the chief
motives, that stimulate him to action;
these are influences —there are few more
powerful —that guide his decisions. And
it is because we need him in the Empire
—him and his youthfulness, his joy in
comradeship, his alert mind and unbreak-
able will—that I fear lest careless words
and negligent assumptions and pedantic
departmentalisms should drive him, alien-
ated from us, into the arms of the narrow
and fanatic Separatist.
Senator Tilman (U.S.A.) on lynching : —
Let the {rood work go on. We have shot and hanged
and burned the negro in North Carolina until he almost
knows his place there.
That’s the ruffian spirit that must arise in Aus-
tralia if a colored race is ever allowed to settle
here. White Australia is most of all necessary
for the black man.
There is trouble in the Melbourne G.P.O.
Some officials there were feeling thirsty, and they
called upon one of their number, a Cold Tea
gentleman, to pay for drinks. The C.T.G.
offered his favorite beverage, which was refused
with contumely. Then, ’tis said, when the Cold
Tea gentleman departed to his work, the Hot Rum
gentlemen took the C.T.G.’s bicycle lamp and
pawned it, and, having drunk the Cold Tea
gentleman’s health, they presented him with the
pawn-ticket. The Cold Tea gentleman didn’t see
the humor of the incident, and reported the
matter to the Deputy-P.M.G. ; a large and violent
inquiry followed, and the prospects of thoso
Hot Rum gentlemen are said to be gloomy.


TATTE RS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Fenny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall's on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each 5a
tioket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,000 at 10/2. I MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,000 at 5/1-
MELBOURNE CUP (Special), Flemington, Vic., November 3 (Drawn Morning of Race), 100,000 at 5/1.
NEW ZEALAND CUP, Riccarton, Christchurch, N.Z., November 7, 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (' ‘ TATTERS ALL *) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to olients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Gnre.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS I
REMEMBER THAT EVERT DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
100 ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne.—Dear Sir,— l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medioine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
i course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
eave my bed, but I commenced taking it at onoe, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASH
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the ohest,
w ith cough, for five years, and during that time got
' reatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
util I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
t once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
>. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at onoe,
nd “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,— Kindly forward me a
! mall bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
as! cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
lad a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
vas seven months old. She had been suffering from
■ronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
las not had a return of it sinoe. It is a splendid medi-
an for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Vietoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“ JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distn ss in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
arid on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did net require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case,
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir, —Kindly send m# on#
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, asa
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charlevllle,
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne'*
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883 — 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states: —“I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
BRANOH DEPOT’
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THS
SMELTING & REFINING GO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited,
, V , ¥ r ' <|, 4 !,l "" r 4 r —**♦" "•< y ’
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
For aIJ Information regarding Hates, apply to the Managed., Head Oeeice, Dapto ;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.


KUTNOW’S POWDER simulate! the Liver
Have you sometimes a furred tongue with an unpleasant
taste on waking in the morning and a variable appetite 1
These are the results of CONSTIPATION, which leads
to graver -troubles if not promptly dealt with by a rational
remedy.
Do you sometimes feel a weight, tightness, or distension,
which might be expressed as “ blown out with wind ” 1
Such feelings indicate STOMACH TROUBLE, known
as “ Gastric Catarrh.”
Do you ever suffer from Nervous or Bilious Headache,
and feel mentally depressed, languid, and altogether out of
sorts, with, perhaps, pain between the shoulder-blades and a
fluttering of specks before the eyes ?
The cause is owing to an excess of bile in the system,
and such are the symptoms of a SLUGGISH LIVER, which
requires to be cleansed and purified.
KUTNOW’S POWDER is a perfect organic cleanser
and blood purifier. It possesses the power of eliminating
from the blood the poison created in it by an excess of bile
and acids. The use of Kutnow’s Powder thereby gives tone
to the system; and, assisting to build up healthy tissue,
becomes the first aid to a vigorous constitution.
On Sale Everywhere.
§g
■ _
{%,' •.'.all : 'i!
L' kwmows
IMPROVED CARLSBAD
POWDER.
Hlrschansprung, or Deer Leap
m
Iff
LOKOON.
41, FARRIHGDOM ROAD. EJD.*
REGISTERED TBAOE MARK
(Entered at srATiON&B'ftMAUA
Important Warning
'hi ears many substitutes for
Kuino.v’s I’owJer o ered under
various names, as something
ch3a;:e , and “just as good.”
These substitutes are injurious
to health, and therefore not
cheap at any price. Insist upon
having the
GENUINE
KUTNOW’S POWDER.
Professor I. N. LOVE, M.D. (Professor of Clinical
Medical Diseases of Children and Hygiene, Marion Sims
College, writes :
“ The great surgeon, Professor Lawson Tait, M.D.,
himself a sufferer from a gouty diathesis, was not only one of
the world’s greatest surgeons, but an able physician and a
skilful therapeutist. For years he found Kutnow’s Powder of
great value to him, personally and in his practice, and this
remedy is one of the few he conspicuously endorsed over his
own signatui*e.
“He realised, as all careful practitioners do, that it is
necessary to cleanse the system frequently, to remove the
debris of undigested food, and to hasten the elimination of
uric acid to properly guard against serious disease.
“ Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activities of the bowels
and kidneys. A dessert-spoonful in a tumblerful of water
taken immediately on rising in the morning cleanses out the
bowels, dilutes the urine, and flushes out the kidneys in a
most satisfactory way.
“ Thorough elimination is salvation, and there is no
better eliminator than Kutnow’s Powder.
(Signed) “I. N. LOYE, M.D.”
On Sale Everywhere.
KUTNOW’S POWDER ensures PERFECT HEALTH
Proprietors -S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
f 5 - 111
Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., Ltd, 853 Broadway, New York.
The Mill,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I stood beside an Ancient Mill
Upon a day of dream,
No sound of life I heard, and still
As slumber flowed the stream.
I saw the white flood race and reel,
And plunge to depths profound;
The vast, inexorable Wheel
Turned slowly round and round.
The faces in the stream swept by,
So far away, so near;
And there was Clamor to the eye,
But Silence to the ear.
And I beheld the vanished years
Of human history:
Mine eyes were filled with sudden tears —
Why came this sight to me ?
Far down the Flood went Race and Creed :
Plato of Academe,
And Moses white, like wisps of weed,
Were borne along the stream.
I saw the purple empires pass,
The kings of old Romance,
Like dying breath upon a glass,
Like visions in a trance.
I saw a drowned hand gloved in mail,
And for a moment shone
The eyes of Caesar, and the pale
Face of Napoleon.
Helen, the fairest of all lands,
And Deirdri and Elaine,
Their white, appealing, jewelled hands
Stretched out to me in vain.
The might of Rome, with face aghast,
And Greece, with gods and song,
With all the empires of the past
Were swept like straws along.
And stars and systems down the flood
Flashed onward silently;
The life was frozen in my blood,
My heart was drawn from me.
The stream ran on with even flow,
My feet the systems kissed—
And then I heard a laughter low,
Malicious in the mist.
The Lord’s Prayer, trembling I began,
But I forgot the Prayer ;
I saw the grim Red Fisherman
For empires fishing there.
I saw an Ancient sitting still—
In sleep his head did nod ;
It was the Owner of the Mill
That was the Mill of God.
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Cooks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Paddt the Scholar calculates that 78‘5 per cent,
of all males in the mulga are now cooks finished
cooks, with references. Every station with scrub
has been cutting it down, for six years and more,
for sheep-feed, consequently there arose a great
demand for cooks. These had to be obtained
somehow, so that anybody who could boil water
without burning it was put into the galley.
The aforesaid Paddy, a product of the Victorian
school system, has been in nearly every scrub-
cutting camp in the West, and is looked upon as
a great authority on scrub-cutting ethics. He
classes cooks into two species^—those who require
that all hands shall sinooge, and those who smooge
to all hands. He names several varieties and
numerous sub-varieties. Two in particular of the
varieties he mentions with loathing ; the first is
the cook who is good, but leaves at a moment’s
notice; the other, not quite so bad, is
the cook who has, besides the usual roast and
fry, only one dish. This kind is usually called
after his “shef-dover.”
Nowadays the first question a new man on a job
asks is not “What sort of bloke is 4 the bloke but
“What sort of a poisoner have yer got?” And
that settles whether the new man stops on or not.
It may be remarked here that “the bloke” is
generio for “boss.”
Talkin’ about cooks, we had a fair pull at old
Leader’s leg last summer. There was a real good
crowd of chaps in the camp, not a “scab” among
them. They nearly all had stands to go to by-
and-by, and so didn’t care much whether they
stopped on the job or not. We had old Flapjack
Bob for a cook, and it was flapjacks mornin’, noon
an’ night. We had ’em with plums, with curran’s,
with bullocky’s joy. We had ’em flat an’ rolled,
and in fancy shapes he cut out with old tins.
Mick Smith was the first to leave the job,
an’ he got his note and went into the frontage
for his cheque. Yer know old Leader is
by way of bein’ a philanthropist, and asks
questions, “What’ll yer do with the money?
Don’t, like a good man, spend it on the cursed
drink,” and all that sorter stuff. He was soft
enought to ask Mick why he was leavin’. Mick
told him that the cook was all right (he didn’t
want the chap to lose his job), but there wasn’t
. enough flapjacks in the kewseen to suit him; he
was very fond of ’em. All right.
Then Jim Davis goes in for his cheque. He
told Leader that he was going where ’e could get
flapjacks. The old man said nothing. All right.
After that Sammy Gibbs went in and told him
that he liked the job, the money, and the cook,
but there wasn’t flapjacks on the table often
enough. “That’s funny,” says the old chap;
“ the other men left for the same reason. ” Sammy
said that if he’d known that, he would ’a’ spoke to
the bloke about it. All right.
When Combo Thomson went in an’ gave the
same reason, old Leader sez, “I can’t have the
men leaving for such a trifle as flapjacks.” He
was simple to think that in the bush a man gives
the true reason why he’s tired of a job. He don’t
always know, himself. Anyway, the old man gets
his horses in, and drove out to the camp. The
chaps were all out at the scrub. The very first
thing he sez to the cook was, “ W’y the ’ell don’t
you give the men flapjacks?” Of course, when
we all came in to dinner and flapjacks, with
“joy ” on ’em, “ the bloke ” gave the old chap the
full strength of the thing; and now I hear Leader
don’t ask any man why he leaves.
At another place I was on, summer before last,
near Bourke, there was a woman died, and her
man wanted to do things stylish and give ’er a
real coffin. There was only one carpenter on the
whole place, an’ he was in our camp. We had a
German cove cookin’ for us called Dutch ’Arry, a
real poisoner. He’d heard of Blue Monge and
dished it up to us first day—’ot, with burnt sugar
in the gravy. Holy MbSe's ! We used to tucker
at a long table made Of G-inCh boards, and this
was a proper place for a carpenter’s bench ;
accordingly the carpenter built the coffin on it.
Just before it was finished it was standing on its
end on the ground, leaning against the table, when
out comes Murdoch, the manager, to have a look
at the sheep. We was at dinner when he rode up
an’ I seen him look very shy at the box. You
know old Packsaddle? Well, he up and said,
“Look here, boss, it’s hard lines. We are bein’
poisoned one end of the table, and our coffin’s
waitin’ for us at the other. ’Tain’t decent.”
Dutch Harry swore about it till he was nearly
dead and chucked up the job, an’ I took it on for
a few days until they could get a cook from town.
I was all right on soda bread and Widgee roll,
but when I tried my hand at yeast bread !!
I used three-parts ot a bag of flour, and had
batches of dough buried all over the place, for
fear of the chaps laughing. I thought one of
them must come right. I never worked so hard
in my life, but the stuff wouldn’t rise when I
wanted it. It wasn’t the yeast either, for next
day there was the stuff risin’ from the grave all
round the camp. The last batch I tried bad two
bottles of Dutchy’s yeast in it, and it rose out of
the sand about 18in., like a great big mushroom.
“The bloke” walked right into one I buried
behind his tent, and it nearly hobbled him.
You’ve heard of ropy bread. Well, it was that.
There’ll have to be an inspector of cooks soon,
like they have for boilers, or we’ll all be in the
grave before our time; or else be cookin’ for our-
selves, which is nearly as bad.
Q.
TARBOY.
“ Burglar Bill ” : I think the Comptroller-
General of Prisons should be asked to supply a
pair of leg-irons to hitch the Cardinal and the
Primate together when they promenade at public
functions. Then if either should fall, through
slipping on the stair carpet, the other would be
compelled to wait until he gets up. Besides, a
young Cardinal or Primate might be inclined to
take advantage of his youthfulness and get in
front of the older man, and thus stir up trouble.
Think the leg-irons would be a good idea. I have
a pair for sale.
An axiom for political women in judging
the politician’s character: A man (like BillLyne,
for instance) who ostentatiously sees ladies about,
parades them round the town, rushes to them in
the lobbies, follows them ever with a fatherly
gallantry and a sentimental buttonhole, need give
no anxiety as to his moral character. It’s all
right. Public attentions of that sort bar the idea
of private attentions of a more mischievous kind.
It is the quiet, cynical, ostentatiously stand-off-
I-can’t-be-bothered-witli-women man who wants
watching, such as . Names supplied at
The Bulletin office to any representative of a
Ladies’ Moral Society on production of her gim-
let and other guarantees of good faith.
“Pisen.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is no greater slave to his “pisen” than
the average bushman. Billjim can do many
things, but one simple feat he cannot perform—
travel 100 miles with a cheque in his pocket and
keep it “unbroken.” Once “stiff,” he can go
from Sydney to the Gulf “on his cheek.’’ Funny,
isn’t it, that a man who can jam a half-broken
colt over a 4ft. jump cannot coax himself past the
nearest “shanty ”?
It’s easily known when the “fit” is upon him.
If summer-time, he complains of the “ ’eat ” on his
“’ead” since ‘ ‘that fall”; or, if winter, he is a
victim of the tooth-ache “oreful bad." Or per-
haps he has qualms in re a “ fav’rite sister,” who
resides in New England, or some distant spot,
and whom he has not seen “since God knows
when.” Failing these, he suddenly remembers
“a good ole ’orse” left “spelling” on Billa-
bogolong, situated anything up to 800 miles
away, which he “must git.” He’s never at
a loss for an excuse (most of them hackneyed)
and “ draw ” his “ bit ’’ he will —and off. Before
leaving he’ll make yon conversant with every
mile of the road he intends to journey, and will
emphatically state the date of arrival at his desti-
nation—“bar somethin’ outer the common
’appens.” You must take it all seriously, repress-
ing even the faintest smile. It hurts —or, maybe,
“ riles ” —him if you insinuate the least doubt as
to his ability to go direct to his “sister” or his
“ ’orse.” He spends his last Sunday on the place
cleaning and fixing up his “ gear, ” trimming his
horse’s feet and “ dolling” its mane and tail. It’s
pathetic to see the trouble he goes to on account
of his never-to-be-accomplished trip.
Old “ Caddy’s ” case appeared to me particu-
larly hard. He was an aged ex-“lag,”and had
been trying to reach Sydney for over 30 years.
The desire to revisit the scenes of his old-time
tortures amounted to a mania—but the other
mania was too strong for him. Four desperate
attempts had he made, and only once suc-
ceeded, in passing the first pub. (the second
stopped him on that occasion). The fifth
“forlorn hope” was about to be tried when
something even more sudden than “pisen”
frustrated his hopes. He dropped dead whilst
timing his Waterbury by the sunset on the
eve of his departure. The Government scooped
the savings that were to have taken him (with
considerable luck) to his promised land. Not even
a run for his money !
Another acquaintance of mine, Billy E
(educated as a clergyman), swore-off in the
strongest possible terms, calling on God to strike
him into the most fanciful shapes should he “do
it again.” He did “do it again,” and, returning
from town with his mate—both “tanked”—was
waddied to death by that individual.
LOUIS M.


m
AND HEARTBURN CURED.
HATEFUL messages from past
I “TT" sufferers from various ailments
arising from the disordered con*
dition of the liver and digestive
organs are continnally coming to hand,
and prove conclusively that as a perfect
liver medicine Bile Beans stand un-
rivalled. “My husband was troubled
with indigestion,” says Mrs. G. Wil-
loughby, of Buckland-street, Alexandria,
Sydney. “ After a meal his food would
lie heavy on his chest, and it would seem
to rise, and a nasty taste would come
into his mouth. He also suffered from
heartburn, and felt drowsy and unfit for
V/
G
work. His sleep was disturbed, and altogether he was in a wretched state of health. Bile
Beans were recommended to him, and speedy relief was the outcome of the first few doses,
and which was shortly followed by a complete restoration to health. I find Bile Beans
also suitable for myself and children when we feel at all out of sorts, and I never lose an
opportunity of recommending them to others. *’
Bile Beans are a prompt and permanent cure for BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNESSES,
NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, PIMPLES, and ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS, BAD
BREATH, ANAEMIA, INSOMNIA, LOSS OF APPETITE, RHEUMATISM, and,
in fact, all ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow, assimilation and diges*
tion. BILE BEANS are obtainable from all medicine vendors, PRICE Is. or 2s.
9d. LARGE BOX (contains three times the quantity of the Is. size), or direct
from THE BILE BEAN MANUFACTURING COMPANY, 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.
One
Bean
lie
n
n
eans
One
Dose
A. (Sb F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SO APM AKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
J&y-Sftfew ia -
Blood Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Stained with dark bloodstains, Life's roadways
smile and sever—
( White seas ! oh, wash red stains away !)
Hose-stains a/nd blood-stains—yet you are mine
for ever ;
This starless night will surely pass, and dawn will
herald day.
My love, my Snow Star, the great seas roll
between us—
Rolling long, lonely years away.
Snow Star ! Ah, Snow Star ! if only God had
seen us
That day we loved, and laughed, and watched the
sunset turn to gray !
Sunset and rose-light ! —We planned a path of
roses,
Heedless that each rose hides a thorn.
Love-light and rose-light! We said, “When
evening closes
We’ll kiss and float through dreamy ways to
laughter-girdled morn.”
Life’s battle called us to Hast and West asunder
(What mattered all the vows we swore !)
Life’s battle called us with bugle-blare and
thunder
(The sea-bird’s scream and challenge to the
breakers on the shore).
Some day—ah ! some day—we’ll drift, and hear
Love’s river
Rustling the lilies as it flows.
Some day—yes, some day—God’s angel will
deliver
His brimming cup of joy to us and render what he
owes.
Then at the sunset we'll reach a vale of roses
With never a blood-stain nor a thorn.
Snow Star ! my Snow Star / when sweet blue even-
ing closes
We'll love and dream through starry night to toft
dew-jewelled morn.
H.Xi.
WILL LAWSON.
A Bad Night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were taking down “fats” from the head of
the Brisbane for a large firm of butchers. Jolly
hard work it was, too—three of us to 500 head ;
pack-horses, too, and rainy weather to start with.
One day we drove from Cressbroke reserve to
just outside Mount Esk—ten miles of a lane. We
tailed the cattle on the reserves till we had barely
time to reach our camp by sundown. While we
were tailing I was reading some papers that had
been given us at Colinton, and was particularly
struck with an account of how a man had been
thrown from his horse and then killed by some
bullocks he was driving.
It was after sundown when we arrived at the
paddock where we were to camp, and, to our dis-
comfiture, a road party had pitched its camp on
the other side of the rcfad, opposite the gate of the
paddock we were bound for. We put the cattle
up to the gate, but through they would not go.
They rung and rung and broke both up and down
the lane two or three times.
At last we forced them through the gate, and
let them rip for a bit, while one of us rode round
the.fence and the others hobbled-out and pitched
the tent. When we were fixed up we put the
cattle on their camp in the corner of the paddock
next the gate by which they had come in, so that
the lane ran right past the camp, and the road
party was just opposite to it. We debated a bit
about putting them there, but decided to do so, as
it was by far and away the best camp, and we
thought there was no danger of anyone coming
down the lane. I held them on the camp till they
were all down, and then rode into the township.
It was about 10.30 when I came out again,
entering the paddock at the opposite end to our
camp. To my amazement I found the cattle all
over the paddock. I rode through them to the
tent, and found my two mates turned in, but not
asleep.
“Do you know the cattle are off the camn.
Sam?” I said.
“Course I do,” he replied, “I ain’t deaf, an’ a
feller can’t get much sleep with them brutes
a-bellerin’ all over the bloomin’ show. We
couldn’t do nothin’ ; you ’ad the on’y moke, an’
we know’d you wouldn’t be long.”
“ How long have they been off ? ”
“Not long! ’Arf ’our at the outside. Some
flamin’ idiot galloped up the lane singin’ ‘Roll
the ole chariot along. ’ Drunk ’e wer, I reckon.
Any’ow, ’e put ’em orf.”
“Well, come and give us a hand to put them
back. I’ll get you a horse.”
I brought him a horse, and we put them back
on their camp. They soon settled down again,
and we left them and hobbled-out our mokes.
We wanted to start before daylight next morn-
ing, so as to clear the town before people were
about. It was a bright, frosty, moonlight night,
and instead of camping in the tent, I just slipped
off my boots and leggings, and, rolled-up in my
blankets, lay down alongside the fire, which we
had started right in the middle of a fallen tree-
wood was scarce. The fire was on my right, and
the tent 15 yards or so on my left.
I dropped off to sleep as soon as I lay down,
and must have been asleep about an hour when
something punching me in the back woke me.
Curiously enough I had been dreaming about
the man who was killed by bullocks, so I suppose
it was a sort of instinct made me refrain from
springing up. Whether or no, I slowly turned
my head under the blanket, and then very care-
fully pulled it off my face.
Within a few inches of my face I saw a huge
pair of horns, surmounting what appeared to my
excited imagination a ferocious white head. I
was in a blue funk, and yet I recognised the
beast (or fancied I did), as one of the crawlers.
When I recovered myself a little I slowly,
inch by inch, turned my head, and all around
me I saw shadowy, indistinct forms of cattle.
The cattle were off their camp again, and I
was lying in the middle of the mob ! I can tell
you I thanked my stars I had not sprung up when
that brute first woke me, for had I done so I must
have rushed them, and whichever way they
rushed they were bound to have come over me, to
day nothing of the tent and those in it.
. Well, there _I lay, playing 'possum, and shiver-
in £ and sweating witn funk. Beast by beast they
™ e ’ and seemed to me that everyone
P* them stopped to sniff at me. Minutes seemed
Z 8 1.? cautiously, raised my head and looked round
t 0 the left. All was clear there—nothing between
me j nd en *' > Cautiously I turned my head
e and looked over the log, and as cautiously I
beasts
“ fly-the-buck. ”
I waited what seemed hours, and then looked
round again. The playful beasts on the other
side of the log had cleared after their mates, bub
two or still remained behind me, apparently
\ H? 1 t 0 -T y
me ’ S °’ m a Volce hoarse with excite-
“Sa-a-a-a-m 1 ’’
“ Ye-e-e-e-s.”
“ Cattle are off the camp.”
** T know. Fur Gord’s sake, lie still.”
‘ Couldn’t I get a horse somehow, and get
vr>» M , , , „
’orses among the cattle? Liequiet'w’ere you are°
They’ll go back d’reckly.”
” C! an 11 get over to the tent, then ? ”
.. all £ o ” e ? ”
All but two or three.”
“Stay where you are, then, till they’re all
®°a o 'j .. T , ,
hanged if the mob didn’t come back, more slowly
than ifc had gone down, and submit me to a
worse, because closer, examination than the pre-
vious one. When the last one had passed me on
J he Y ay bac * r ; 1 g ot U P and went barefooted and
barelegged (I could only find one boot and no
leggings) after a horse. I got one, and for the
rest of the night did a voluntary watch. At 4 a.m.
I called the others, and we rolled up and packed
My leggings and the other boot were found within
a ra u lus ° f r fifty / ards fr °m the fire.
• . “' lm > 1 sald . as we were putting the cattle
into the lane. What color’s my hair ? ”
~ !'P]P wed I know what yer’d call it. Some-
“ Thank God ! “ ° Verd ° ne dam P er ‘”
“Why?”
“ I was afraid last night had turned it white.”
Q-
NE'ER-DO-WEEL.
Poor Land.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WnfiN I see a poor man rushing after a block of
Poor land it suggests images of a starved mouse
chasing a cat, ora hungry dog rushing into the
water to take a bite out of a crocodile. If he be a
good young man, and gets the land, he may con-
sider that he has overtaken thereat or fixed his
teeth in the crocodile.
Getting a living out of poor land is like extract-
ing the back tooth of a lion.
Are you industrious ? Poor land is lazy. Per-
sistent ? Poor land is patient. Are you quick ?
It laggeth. Toil never so hardly, poor land still
loafeth. Live parsimoniously, it will be extrava-
gant. Treat life as a play, it will make it a
tragedy. If you are proud, it will make you
humble. Rich ? It will impoverish you.
Have you boundless energy ? It will employ
it. Strength ? It will sap it. Youth ? It will
take it. Black hair? It will whiten it. Straight
backs it soon bends.
. Would you feed it ? It remains hungry. Starve
it—it will starve you. Let it run wild—it will
worry you. Keep it well in hand—it will bite you.
Give it your money—it demands yourself. Give
it yourself—it wants your wife and your children.
Generation after generation poor land will devour,
and not be satisfied.
It is the grave of hope and the hell of industry.
Poor land is a liar. It promises freedom and
binds its victims with a hundred chains. It
vaunts the independence it confers and makes the
wretches who are lured by its blandishments life-
long serfs of the soil. It says success is just round
the corner of Next Season, yet knows that it is in
the backblocks of Never. It tells you that your
ship will soon be coming home, yet knows it lies
stranded on the sands of Time.
Poor land makes neighbors cantankerous and
friends few.. It is the great-grandfather of
murder. It is the father of poor fences, which
are the parents of neigh bors’ quarrels, which are
forebears of assassination. If you are proud of
your strength and feel ready to combat anything,
have a tussle with pneumonia, or play with an
angry ox, or take the devil by the tail and swing
him thrice round your head, and then hit his
horns against the wall, but leave poor land
alone.
Samson is reported to have settled 1000 Philis-
tines in one scrimmage, but it isn’t recorded that
he settled on poor land.
M.L.
KATI KATI.
Blighted Hopes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A heavy thunder-storm had swept over Wilga,
leaving the drought-stricken plains gratefully
fragrant. Ralston, who had been left in charge
of the homestead since the removal of the sheep,
found four feet of water in the underground tank.
That meant to him pure drinking-water for some
weeks, and (he shrugged his shoulders in glad
anticipation) a shower-bath.
» * * •
A stolid, German-looking swagman knocked
tentatively at the office door. Ralston pointed to
an elevated malt-tank. “ G’day. If you’ll pump
two foot of water into that tank I’ll give you
extra rations and tobacco.” Then he finished the
letter to his employers to the welcome clink-clank
of the pump.
“ The indicator will tell you when you’ve got
two foot in her,” he said to the man as he passed
through the yard to the stables.
* * * *
When Ralston returned from the Carriers’
Arms the German was sitting on his swag, and
the pointer of the tank indicator stood at Oft.
“Someting wrong vid der pump,” he repeated
scornfully, and tried the handle, A dry gurgle
came from below. Then he went hurriedly to the
bathroom. When he came out the swagman - fled
before his whisky-flavored oaths.
* * * *
“ How vos I.ter know,” the German said in the
Carriers Arms the next morning, “ dat some
vun left de bathroom tap—vot you call it’
turned-on, and all de vater vos loss ? ”
VIC.
FRANK BELLMAN.


A Weak Stomach
Indigestion, No Appetite, Exhaustion, General Weakness,—All Duo
to a Sluggish Hirer and Impure Blood.
m
m
m
Mr. G. A. Boxall, of Prahran, Vic-
toria, sends us his photograph and says:
“ I wish to tell every one the great
help I received from Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. I suffered terribly from weak-
ness of the stomach, indigestion, and
biliousness, and I had no appetite. I
felt tired all the time. Sometimes it
seemed almost impossible for me to
keep about. But after using Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a short time for my
blood and as a general tonic to my
nervous system, and with an occasional
use of the Pills to keep my bowels in
good condition, I rapidly improved, and
am now enjoying better health than I
have in a long time. I now keep these
medicines near at hand and take just a
little whenever I begin to feel badly,
for, you know, ‘ a stitch in time saves
nine.’ ”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Of course you cannot enjoy good health if your stomach gives out. You
must have an appetite, must digest your food, and must keep your liver
active. Muscular strength, nervous strength, desire to be active, and a feeling
of general good health may be yours by keeping your liver active and your
blood pure. It takes just two medicines for this: Ayer’s Pills for the liver,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for the blood.
It’s Ayer’s Sarsaparilla you want. Insist upon getting “Ayer’s,” for it’s
Stronger, contains more ingredients, and cures quicker than any other kind.
m
m
Strengthens the Stomach and Aids Digestion
Ayer’s Pills keep the liver in a healthy condition.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEB & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. 8. A.
James Martin &Go
161 CLARENCE ST.
Near King St.
SYDNEY
m
m
WE ARE PREPARED TO
ILLUMINATE ANY PLACE,
ANY TIME, ANYWHERE, with
ACETYLENE GAS.
Martin’s Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas Generator.
ALL SIZES, from 5 to 1000 LIGHTS.
OVER 500 IN DAILY USE. Send for our “ No. 56
Acetylene Gas Catalogue.”
CARBIDE OF CALCIUn at the BEST PRICES.
m
When you want MOTIVE POWER it will
pay you to investigate the merits of
MARTIM >S
Nonpareil Oil Engine
BURNS ORDINARY KEROSENE.
FULL SPEED AT A MOMENT’S NOTICE.
Strong, Safe, Cheap, Economical. HsJi
ALL SIZES, both HORIZONTAL and PORTABLE.
BSST Send for Illustrated. Descriptive Circular .
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using; CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
f Absolutely THE BEST. 1
KNORRS
Ready-Made Dried
PEA SOUP .
OINTMENT
POOR MAN’S
FRIEND
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
In over ioo years’ world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal*
Ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) 1/I y 2,
2/9. 11/-, and 22/- pots.
Dr.ROBERTS’ ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1 /1 y 2 ; 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by—
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
G. L. ROBERTS, H-D
Bora 1766* Died 1834.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
HICHAM'S
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A.
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the W hole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beer.ham's Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, Si. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is l£d t and 2s 9d each.
t
The basis of which is “ Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to
all other Sauces*
AGENTS— Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell *. Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
m
m
MOIR’S
KIPPERED
HERRINGS
IN Mb FLAT OVAL TINS.
Manufrs.—JOHN MOIR & SON, LTD., London, Aberdeen ana Seville.
Head Office : 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON, E.C.
IHaMflWimfß
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
mm
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.F.E., E.R.C.S.E.,
L.F.F.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
< The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Hr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
‘‘THE ‘ KNOX-MERCER ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
th This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“Press Extracts” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: lO to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


RELIABLE
GARDEN
nr>-QF
SAMPLES
AND
PBIOES
FREE.
Reliable, because it is
well made, and made
to last. Every foot of
Hose we sell increases
our reputation as
makers and sellers of
the best.
PERDRIAU & CO
RUBBER
MERCHANTS
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
NERVOUSNESS.
*OSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in Yain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
THE MOST NOTE ITT OTJS.
E P P S’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING*
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPEK.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d. ; post free from The
■Bulletin Office, 7d.
SIMP
POTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTH INGTON.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Boiler Feed Pump.
a*- SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, Londo*
Warren Webster & Co. New Jersey.
Enquiries Invited for .«.«»
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
jhkhjk
Spoons, Forks, )
Pocket-Knives, S
and Scissors >
■
PLATE and
CUTLERY
WOLF
T. fc. .T. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
At the Shewrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Alee At—
“ TECB BLO C DEC.”
Coilins-St., MELBOURNE
If
JK
RY & CO.
i
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
Engineers * General Machinery Merchants.
Sole Agents m Australia for— The Mason Regulator Co., The Pickering Governor Co., The Shedd Electric Co.,
The Champion” Lubricating Oils, The Ludlow Valve Co., Sturtevant’s Fans, The American Pulley Co.
Forms of Vise.
m
The “ Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x 18|in., opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney,
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines ar.d Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, eto», etc.
§3
; iS
i,s i'Mm.
m
iw.
mm
T,
. GOODALL & CO., 129 HAY ST., SYDNEY
have ,N stock anp to arrive Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
m
Irrigation and Pumping
and
Mining:
9
Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting:,
New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
r;
■M
m
Size, s|" x 3|" x 5".
are
_ _ .
Importers
and have
for Sale-
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all sizes
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engine*, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 CLA.R.2SKTCB STREET, SYDNEY.
mm
FILTERS
> .... ON ....
Scientific Principles
Passed all
Bacteriological Tests
Dr. NELLY, L.R.C.P. &S., Edin.;
Mons. A. de BAVAY, Melb.;
Mr. CILRUTH, Govt. Bacteriologist,
N.Z.; and others.
A FILTER WITHOUT SUCH A
CERTIFICATE IS NOT A
REAL FILTER.
iillliS
mmm
i j
i“ ABBOTT”
WIBk.
Pressure,
Non=Pressure,
Water Bag,
Tank, and
Large Service
FILTERS
All Authorities condemn old style
so-called filters.
PT-THEY ARE DANGEROUS.
\
J
GERM
PROOF
The Cheapest and
flost Satisfactory
Filter in the Market.
Consult the “Abbott”
filter Co. on all matters
of Filtration on a large
or small scale.
ADVICE GRATIS.
The “Abbott” Filter Co.,°^ e 486 Collins St., Melbourne; or N. Cuthridge, Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney
V
■
niiiiiHiiit
