

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
IRROY’S CHA 'IPAGNE.
The Bulletin
Vol. 24.—N0. 1246.]
[Thursday, December 31, 1903.
Registered at General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post aB a Newspaper.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent, street, Sydney,
—FOB— .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAREN'S Compound
Traction Steam Enginsi
m
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YO JNG. >
■■■ »... »
wonderful, value.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown Out to life-size —causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character —very superior for parlor
entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond (a good catch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox, the Gfeat Yankee Bicycle Puzzle (very
ingenious), and, last of all, the famous Wizard of the
North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C*SYDNEY.
golf. Agents for J. & H. MoLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers of Btaam Ploughing Taokle, Traction Engines for Haulage, Ceneral and Special Work,
We Btook and have to arrive McLaren’* Compound Traction Engines; HUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertioal Btsam Engines;
BROADBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIROHHER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.—*-
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Posted, Bd,
, m vif
HOBART.
Ijadley’s Orient fiotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
for '(UajUtiti) "(fyext
-*T- 3
4
%
EROOM’S
INDIAN
POLO STICKS
Are tVie BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S. Africa,
Egypt, China and Ceylon
and used by all the best players in India. Agents wanted
in Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddlers
and merchants are invited to write for trade terms.
mm
G I 9
9. . d
ll—'
EROOM & CO.,
CALCUTTA, INDIA*
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
9
Ediswan - Lamp
■
!:-£r
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthiest
Imitations.
TBS EBMI& im
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-streeti
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot—Commonwealth Buildings,
Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
BBi
V ‘1] W ﬁx" '
‘ I’ 7‘ “‘” .WW 2; x. ,, ; I
‘ " WP:- ,
. / ; vllllllunmnwH ‘, Ho .‘
r ' _ ' 9 ., V
‘ PLUM'
/'^.ENTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
vjr like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“ RAZOLEO ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price
Razor, in strong; Leather Case, 108. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
Razor, in Ivor}' Handle, 158. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30..
Registered and Sent Post Free to ant Part of the World.
|S r " Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents; CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S
EVERYWHERE.
BUSHMAN and BUGOANEEi
9
rice Is. Id.
Post Free.
BOOM ERANG‘.
The Quality and Success of this Brand
has caused many imitations.
The Immense Sale of BOOMERANG BRANDY is
the Best Testimonial to its Oimilfv.
BRAN DY.
Be Sure that you get the BOOMERANG Brand.
SUFFERERS!
Sufferers will find that
Pearson’s Pepto=€Wor
acts directly on the Digestive Organs, and if
taken strictly according to the directions, will
absolutely cure
INDIGESTION
whether chronic or not. The appetite will be
found to regain its normal condition, as will
the system generally also regain its strength.
If your Chemist does not stock PEPTO-
CHLOR, send direct to The Orlando Pearson
Pepto-Chlor Co., Stock Exchange Buildings,
Pitt St., Sydney.
1.1%“ ‘2' '7: "5f 2 .A
s%§§‘
ﬁ'R-Ack MONO
"f”‘Q‘g‘b/v - -
S52 ‘12
HERVEY’S
RAGKAROCK.
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
A
%
COOL
jßoor
AGENTS: Leading Ironmonger*
everywhere.
COOL HOUSES
WHITE COMPO.
or TERRA COTTA
To Avoid Fraud
each case« c
FACTORIES : For these two lines address—
“ ARABIC ” DEPOT, MELBOURNE.
SVRM
Cheapest
OIL
PAINT
on
Earth I! J
Helidon Spa Water. A Natural Liquid Food.
'W' »>-■’»» «r «r -w «r- t
From Helidon. Queensland-


THE RED PAGE.
Edwin Arnold, a Lond. publisher, announces
his foundation of another “Colonial Library” at 2s. 6d.
and 3s. 6d.‘, and attacks Us with six novels abreast. There
is room for improvement ot the 2s. 6 d, covers—in a crude
yellow paper, with a distressingly ugly decoration.
“ Anything is good enough for the Colonies” no longer
with the $1.50c. American book on sale here at
3s. 6 d. —often well illustrated, and bound in attractive
cloth a book that publishers have taken pains with.
Nor does the matter of the Arnold books rise
far above mediocrity. Mr. Pane's Wild Oats, by
Charles Eddy, tells pleasantly enough the story of a
London discount broker’s social downfall and rehabilita-
tion. God's Scholars, by Charles Marsh, is an excellent
study of character in a Norfolk (Eng.) coastal village.
More exciting is The Longshoremen, by George Bart ram
—a story of Sussex (Eng.) smugglers in the earlv nine-
teenth century. The people have bold individuality, and
the plot develops well, despite some dull patches toward
the close. This is part : of, .the philosophy of the prince
Of smugglers—
All you heed to manage women is a way with you.
Rap out at 'em now and then—always do it when
there's no reason for it—throw a tankard at ’em if they
answer baok—then coax and pet ’em and chuck ’em
under the chin,-tell ’em about their eyes and hair,
praise their fancy in ribbons, and give’’em plenty of
money to spend, and take care that one day’s never
the same with ’em as another. A woman will stand
anything except meanness and a dull life—they ’re the
things that she can’t endure. Keep her interested—
that's the way. ”
The River of- Vengeance, by P. L. Oliphant, is the worst
of the batch, and bad consistently. It opens with a
shameless parody of “ Ouida,” and continues with a
shocking travesty of Russia.
Give me not too much finish. Let me he
To cold perfection strange, if so I must
Refine away the ardour of the soul
And catch the plague of ■wordy nothingness.
Let me not learn the trick of cunning terms,
That in a careful anguish mince along,
If so I place a harrier to truth,
Or hate the springs of natural eloquence,
Evblyn Phihmby in The Century,
~ln The Independent Review (N >v.) H, Ellis
generalises from the birth statistics of Britain, America,
and Australia, and concludes that “the Anglo-Saxon
race ib losing its reproductive power.” the Anglo-
Saxons are approaching a period when they will begin to
die out, and in some parts of the English-speaking
(world have already reaehed that point.?’ The article
gives additional proof (if proof were needed) that “the
decline of the birth-rate in N.S. Wales” is no isolated 1
phenomenon due to “ artificial cheeks,” but is the symp-
tom of a world-wide tendency.
SOME SYDNEY STATUES
The unveiling of the bas-relief that adorns the
facade of N.S. W. Art Gallery turns one’s thoughts to other
statuary work in and about Sydney. We have bronze
statues of Governor Bourke, Queen Victoria and her
Vonsort, Captain Cook, Governor Phillip, Thomas Mort,
and Dr. Lang, in addition to the numerous marble
imbecilities of our public parks and gardens. We have
atatuary, of sorts, on market, bank, and office buildings ■
we have the unhumourous grotesques that fill the Post
Office spandrils, and those other graven images that fail
to fill the niches of the Lands Office—and then there is
Dailey 1
Lord Rosebery once suggested that if the restless spirits
that possessed the Gadarene swine were to enter into the
statues of Edinburgh, and if the whole stony, brazen
troop were to hurry, hustle and huddle headlong down
the steepest place near Edinburgh into the deepest part
of the Firth of Forth, Art would sustain no serious
1055... Most of our statues have the Demon of Ugliness
Strong within them, though he, unhappily, drives them
not to their destruction ; but Australian Art would be
the gainer if some of them were converted into useful
road-metal, and the remainder summarily consigned to
the lime-kiln or the melting-pot.
£
A few of the Lands Office effigies may be taken
as an illustration. On the Gresham-streetside there is a
disproportionate Parkes with one wooden arm in a sling
and at the other end an irate Deniehy muttering a male-
diction on his trousers. Round the corner we find Went-
worth in a much-creased waistcoat, holding a pen that
might well be mistaken for a pahn-branch typifying, in
mediaeval fashion, the posthumous martyrdom to which
he has been subjected. Near him is John Robertson—
not the bluff and emphatic knight we knew—but a bland
and saintly John, timidly, and with unaccustomed mild-
ness, explaining the provisions of his famous Act
Above Wentworth stands J. S. Farnell in a frock
coat made on the block principle, similar to that
adopted by the Noah family in the Arks of our
childhood. One, however, seldom noticed the solidity
that characterised the Noahs’ garments, because the
base served them instead of fegt, which were always
strangely wanting. But it is not so with this statue'of
Farnell. It has both feet and legs, and, because of the
altititude of the niche in which it stands, these feet and
legs are painfully and conspicuously apparent, pro-
truding from the solid mass that forms the coat. The
sculptor, evidently, never gave a thought to the position
his statue would occupy, and neither he npr the others
appears to have considered what effect the inevitable
foreshortening would have upon their work.
It is undoubtedly an impossibility for a Hculptor to
achieve anything like an artistic success when his
subject is a full-length portrait-statue of any disiin-
guished, but physically commonplace man in ordinary
modern dress. Phidias himself would have failed had he
been set such a task. As a matter of fact, he seems to have
recognised the difficulty and shirked it, for in the famous
Parthenon frieze he clothes his horsemen in short cloaks
and helmets only, though we are tolerably certain that
the Greek cavalry of the time of Pericles were attired in
something more than this. But Phidias knew too well
the limitations of his art to make any concessions to
mere realism. Our Lands Office sculptors have not fol-
lowed his example, and the result is apparent in their
statues. It is a sorry spectacle to see, even in effigy, an
estimable middle-aged gentleman exposing himself to the
weather, and trying hard to look dignified while con-
scious all the time that his coat is a shockingly bad fit
and that his trousers even a statue, I think,'must feel
the ignominy of those trousers !
J*
In dismissing the Lands Office statues, of which
the best is bad, attention mav be called in passing to the
demented explorer labelled “Stuart,” standing hatless
under an apparently bright sun, and essaying a difficult
exercise in some novel system of physical development—
if one may judge from the position of his hand. The
ridiculous puppets in fancy dress that encumber the
Bridge-street faqade are absolutely beneath notice.
The statues on the Colonial Secretary’s Office are not
works of art, but, unlike those of the Lands Office, they
fill the niches in which they are placed, and, if looked at
merely as so much architectural detail, they are effective
and not altogether uninteresting.
Of our other statues, the monument to Phillip, in the
Palace Gardens, is undoubtedly the worst, because of its
pretentiousness. It is not a group, but a series of five
figures, and the principal one, in the insecurity of its
cheap, melodramatic pose, and its general air of absolute
inanity, resembles nothing so much as one of those
wooden effigies that were wont to adorn tobacconists’
doorways in the days gone by.
The statue of Cook cannot be called an unqualified
success; nor can that of Queen Victoria—spoilt by its
stagey, off-with-his-head attitude and its badly-crumpled
“ property ” train ; and criticism turns in horror from
the “ job lots ” with which the Botanic Gardens and the
Centennial Park are studded. The more one thinks of
these objects, the less one thinks of them.
The Markets statuary lacks simplicity and boldness ;
the effect aimed at is frittered away in a multiplicity of
details, and the contrast of the white marble and the
yellow freestone is unpleasant. This last defect is to be
noticed, too, in the marble statue of Queen Victoria
beneath the Post Office tower, and more markedly, per-
haps, in those somewhat lifeless statues of Birch’s on the
Australian Joint Stock Bank in George-street. How
much better with regard to colour is that graceful bronze
figure poised above the pediment of the Exchange !
S
The statue of Sir Richard Bourke is, perhaps,
the only one of which we have reason to feel proud. It
might take its place among the best portrait statues of
any country and suffer little by the comparison. The
sculptor was fortunate in being able to clothe his subject
in military uniform, and yet the fine effect of the work as
a whole is in no wise due to the dress, or even to the
pose : but solely to the arrangement of the long military
cloak. This was the one stroke of genius, the superfluous
thing necessary, as Voltaire has it, to transform a matter-
of-fact bronze figure into a work of art. Deprived of his
cloak, his Excellency Sir Richard Bourke would be as
little worthy of notice in the Domain as his predecessor,
Governor Phillip, is in the Palace Gardens, though he
would be always infinitely less ludicrous.
Next to that of Bourke comes the statue of the -Prince
Consort, in Hyde Park. It is dignified and impressive-
somewhat too much so, perhaps—but, nevertheless, it is
a really notable work.
Of the Gallery statuary it is unnecessary here to speak ;
for, with a few exceptions, it consists mostly of presen-
tation works of no great merit. Two piece's, however,
may be noticed, viz., Birch’s “ Retaliation ”—a fine study
of action—and Andreoni’s magnificent bronze, “ Who is
without sin among ye, let him cast the first stone.”
Of the many casts from the Antique, one may be per-
mitted, in passing, to express the opinion that they are
entirely unsuited to a Gallery such as ours. They are in-
teresting and valuable, but they should be in' a place
apart, not scattered about oromiscuously, to the destruc-
tion of their own effect and that of the pictures surround-
ing them. An exception might perhaps be made in the
case of the Venus de Milo, incomparable, and lovely even
in the lifelessness of plaster. Incomparable, one may
well say, for her only possible rival, the world-famed
Venus de Medici, is, after all, merely an ideally pretty
woman, fresh from .hb Dath, and altogether too human
not to be coquettishly ashamed of her nakedness ; but
the other—call her Venus, or what you will—is beyond
question a goddess ; a superbly and triumphantly beauti-
ful goddess, serene in the unmindful consciousness of her
divinity.
£
Sculpture is a purely decorative art, and it is
never farther from its ideal than when it seeks to
emulate the painful realism of a wax-work show. But
Governments and fatuous memorial com-
-68 awa - va t ad to understand this, and large sums of
inmfVj constantly being squandered in order that
soldier, poet or politician may be for ever
In ftone or bronze, for the sole reason that
mpn een ovected to the honour of distinguished
thpro ■® ev Y llere 1 and, if the result is hopelessly inartistic,
i f alwa y s the sculptor to blame.
i ° °* Portrait statues we should have portrait
aPP ro P ri ate setting, either allegorical or
We ?J? ould thus keep green, in the most
jnanner, the memory of those whom we wish to
fny i-ul’a-a the sculptor would be given a wider scope
„ e dj splay of artistic imagery, and our memorials to
' nien would then have an added intrinsic value as
If the untutored Philistines who invariably
S°" tr „ th ® funds would only recognise the truth of this,
wL? h "?? re beautiful our city might be ! Every
Sh of . th * name ° f artist is, I believe, in
a.* . these views, so it may not be too presump-
An™°i h £ pe that shortly—say, at the Art Society’s next
U u “ x P°Sure, as Charles Lamb might call it—we may
. .ta sculptor can do when he “gets his fancy
e with regard to the treatment of a public memorial.
N.S.W.
IRISH
The Irish-speaking folk say that the English
language compared with the Irish is as stiff canvas to
f“PP' e s , llk - A great picture may be painted on the can-
faK artlst > lmt the silk is in itself a magical
1 u at gla,| , ces > and shines, and darkens with all the
subtle hues and shadows of life and of the kingdom of
KwiV’u • “ ls onl -}' the masters of style who can write
v/u 1,1 V‘ a wa .V that can make it seem alive, with the
da "°,' n ! ln veins. But Irish is a tongue that
is as close as the breath, as deep as the heart, as strange
fiL 6 S^K U ’u and , as lntimate > and yet mysterious, as the
fire on the hearth. There is in it the voice of the wind,
™L™. Urmur 0f s t rea ms, the cry of the birds that pass
over dreary moorlands when the darkness is falling, the
song of the sap in the trees, the whispering of the dead in
tneir graves.
• 1 r*; ad the other day of how a scientific man had
indented a machine by means of which he could hear
p ants growing. This is merely the re-discovery of a lost
; ... ih ? oelts knew all about it long ago. Have they
not the story of the blind giant who used to sit on the
battlements of his castle in the morning and listen to the
grass growing? Surely they should know all about these
things. Consider the advantages they had in the
egmning. They came to Europe after the disappearance
of neolithic man, who left behind him some- cartoons on
*£° ks > , bu 't n ° literature. They were the first of all extant
races to look upon the Western World. They walked
amongst shadows in the Dawn of Time. Small wonder
that they have been called the Twilight Race.
It is in Irish that the heart opens like a rose, and flashes
come from “ that little, infinite, faltering, eternal flame
that one calls; oneself.” This is the result of an inborn
mental attitude—a legacy from the days when speech
was used to express, without reticence or circumlocution,
the thought that burned in the brain. In those fine
days all Nature, animate and inanimate, responded to an
appeal addressed to her in Irish. When a poet was in
trouble, or one of his friends was dead, he called with
confidence for the sympathy of the skies, and the sun
fnvisible 1 - 1000 ’ * nd *'* l * s *' ar ®> and everything visible and
‘‘There’s no dew or grass on Cluan Leathan. The
cuckoo is not to be seen on the furze ; the leaves are
withering and the trees complaining of the cold. There
is no sun or moon in the air or in the sky, or no light in
the gravV” 1111 " 2 dOWn ’ with the ® tre tching of O’Kelly in
I have before me a book, recently published, by
Eady Gregorv. Its title is “ Poets and Dreamers.” It
introduces to me a poet, of whom I am ashamed to say,
I never heard before. Raftery was his name. He was a
wandering bard, like Abou ben Zeyd, “ a singing man of
the singers, the world’s guest and a stranger.” He lived
in Connaught in the early years of the last century, and
travelled over the country from house to house singing
songs of his own composition in Irish, and playing upon
a little fiddle. When a couple were linked together for
life it was a marriage but not a wedding if Raftery were
not there. He was blind like his predecessor, Homer
and was always poor, but he had the heart that goes all
the way without complaining. Says he :
“I am Raftery the poet, full of hope and love ; with
eyes without light, with gentleness without misery.
“ Going west on my journey with the light of my
heart; weak and tired to the end of my road. lam now
and my back to a wall, playing music to empty pockets.”
He is described as being a thin man—who ever heard of
a wandering fat poet?—not very tall, with a long frieze
coat and corduroy trousers. He died at seventy years of
age on Christmas Eve in the year 1835, and was buried in
Killeenan. When he was alive he “travelled Ireland
challenging all the poets of that time. There were hun-
dreds of country poets in those days, and a welcome for
them all.” Here are a few translated extracts from an
elegy he wrote on a fiddler friend of his by the name of
Thomas O’Daly :
“The swans on the water are nine times blacker than a
blackberry since the man died from us that had pleasant-
ness on the top of bis fingers. His two grey eyes were
like the dew of the morning that lies on the grass
“He was the beautiful branch. In every quarterthat
he ever knew he would scatter his fill and not gather Ha
would spend the estate of the Dalys, their beer and their
wine. And that he may be sitting in the chair of grace
in the middle of Paradise....
“ No flower in any garden, and the leaves of the trees
have leave to cry, and they falling on the ground
There is no green flower oil the.tops of the tufts since
there did a boarded coffin go on Daly.”
The fine effort of imagination in regard to the swans
m the foregoing, does not find the soft place in my heart
so surely as the reference to the prodigality' of the
deceased, and the delightful suggestion that God should
reward him for the same. But there was nothing mean
about Raftery. In another of his poems on “ The Rising
Again of Ireland” he tells how, when she has risen”
“ ships will be coming from France and Spain, and from
all the countries ; and there will be no rent on the land
and every poet will he given a fee of twenty-one pounds ’’’
How exact he is in his statement! It makes one think of
the measurements given by St. John in his description of
the New Jerusalem. Exit Raftery. He was a wanderer
on the face of his own small patch of earth all his days
but his name is held in more kindly remembrance than
the names of many a Connaught magnate of his time who
rode royally after, and to, the dogs.
Lady Gregory spent three days in a Connaught
workhouse, taking down old stories and legends from the
lips of the inmates. She says : “As I listened, I was
moved by the strange contrast between the poverty of
the tellers and the splendour of the tales. These men
who had failed in life, and were old or withered, or sickly
or crippled, had not laid up dreams of good houses and
fields, and sheep and cattle ; for they had never possessed
enough to think of the possession of more as a possibility.
It seemed as if their lives so poor and rigid in
circumstance that they did not fix their minds, as more
prosperous people might do, on thoughts of customary
pleasure. The stories that they love are of quite visionary
things ; of swans that turn into king’s daughters, and of
castles with crowns over the doors, and lovers’ flights on
the backs of eagles, an<j music-loving water-witches and
journeys to the other world, and sleeps that last for seven
hundred years.”
Compare this with Carlyle’s picture of an English work-
house and its stolid, squalid, helpless, hopeless, apathetic
denizens.!
Here is part of a translation from an Aran (West of
Ireland) ballad, and I would be pleased to know where
you will find anything like it in English. It is called
“ The Grief of a Girl’s Heart’’—
“ O Douall og, if you go across the sea bring myself
with you, and do not forget it; and you will have a
sweetheart tor fair days, and market days, and the
daughter of the King of Greece beside you at night..
“ It is late last night the dog was speaking of you ; the
snipe was speaking of you in her deep marsh, it is you
are the lonely bird through the woods ; and that you may
be without a mate until you find me..
“ O, ochone, and it’s not with hunger or with wanting
food, or drink, or sleep, that I am growing thin, and my
life is shortened ; but it is the love of a young man has
withered me away..
“ When I go by myself to the Well of Loneliness I sit
down and go through my trouble ; when I see the world
and do not see my boy, he that has amber shade in his
hair.
“It was on that Sunday I gave my love to you : the
Sunday that is last before Easter Sunday. And myself
on my knees reading the Passion ; and my two eyes
giving love to you forever. . . My heart is as black as the
blackness of the sloe, or as the black coal that is on the
smith’s forge ; or as the sole of a shoe left in white halls ;
it was you put that darkness over my life.. . You have
taken the East from me ; you have taken the West from
me ; you have taken what is before me and what is
behind me; you have taken the moon, you have taken
the sun from me; and my fear is great that you have
taken God from me.’’
There it is in an alien tongue. Imagine what it must
sound like in its own Irish !
#
The Twilight Race is, in Ireland, making a
brave effort to rescue its rich and noble language from
the maw of Oblivion. But the hard, unsympathetic
Spirit of the Age says—“ What is the use of it? Will it
help in the development of Commerce? Is there any
money in it ? ” And we must reply to these questions in
the words of the old mournful refrain—
“ Seagan O’Dwyer a GHeannu,
We’re worsted in the game.”
V.[?]
For Publication on January 17.
PM! may in Australia
A collection of the artist’s most notable drawings for
The Bulletin, including some two hundred
•cartoons, portraits, and humourous pictures.
Demy folio (about 18 in. x 12 in.), printed on superfine
paper, and handsomely bound in decorated cloth, with
special end-paper. With.anoteon the life and work of
May; and a full iconography.
Edition limited to 975 copies at IDs. 6d. ; and 25 copies
in superior binding, with extra plate, at £1 11s. 6d.
Notb.—This volume includes a full series of reproduc-
tions of the best of Phil May’s Australian work. For the
personal and historical interest of the book, no less than
for the artistic value, it must remain a unique Australian
publication. The greatest care has been taken in the
faeture to produce a worthy memorial of May’s talent.
Subscribers’ names, with remittance, may be sent to
The Bulletin offices. Sample copies may be seen at The
Bulletin offices, 214 George-street, Sydney, and 369
Oollins-street, Melbourne. .
The Publishers reserve the right to increase the price
after publication, if found desirable.
CONTENTS:
I. The Minstrel— Henry Parkes and Francis
Abigail.
11. A Lost Leader—Graham Berry.
lIL A Primrose Dame—Mr. Justice Rogers.
IV. An Ecclesiastical Relic —Dean Cowper.
V. The Cardinal—Cardinal Moran.
VI. Peter— Peter Lalor.
VII. George—George Coppin.
' VHI. -Mr. Justice Windeyer.
IX. Mr. Justice Wilkinson.
X. The Phoenix—E. G. Fitzgibbon.
XI. The Attorney-General—Mr. Justice Simpson.
XII. F. W. Haddon—David Syme.
XIII. S. V. Winter—Alfred Deakin.
XrV. Dr. Bromby.
XIVa. Edmund Barton.
XIVb. “ Penny Wise but Not Pound Foolish.”
XIVc. Politicians and their Hair.
XIVd. Portrait heads of John Lucas, W. H. Pidding.
ton, G. A. Lloyd—V A Slandered Council.”
XV. Heads of the People—Alfred Plumpton, Dr.
Neild, J. B. Patterson, “Big” Clarks
Seoundus, J. J. Casey, David Gammon.
XVI. The Milk of Righteousness.
XVII. The Milk of Unrighteousness.
XVIII. Old Gaiety.
XIX. Old Politics.
XX. Old Fashions.
XXI. Old Sports.
XXII. Old Musicians.
XXIII. Old Artists.
XXIV. Honour among Spielers.
XXV. All Full.
XXVI. The Tortures of a Jewish Fast-Day.
XXVII. The Majesty of the Law.
XXVIII. Both on the Wallaby.
XXIX. A Curiosity in Her Own Country.
XXX. Jumps and Jim-Jams.
XXXI. Measuring the Baby.
XXXII. The Indignity of Labour. Things We See*
&c.—At the Foresters’ Picnic ; Lord Car-
rington and Captain Wallington ; A Back
View.
XXXIII. A Good Reason. Things We See, &a Three
Portraits.
XXXIV. In the Dress Circle. A Rebuke. Things We
See, C. Neild; Alfred Bennett;
Ninian Melville.
XXXV. Now—How? “ Glad ” Was the Word. Things
We See, &o.—A Scotchman ; Lewis Scott;
F. J. Hallewell.
XXXVI. A Stunner! Things We See, <kc.—John
Lucas'; Daniel O’Connor.
XXXVII. Ora Pro Nobis. Things We See, &c.—A Back
View ; a Portrait; W. H. Piddington.
XXXVIII. The Critics of Bismarck. Things We See, &c.—
Bevill and Newcombe ; F. O. Brewer.
XXXIX. The Reason Why. Things We See, <fcc.—
Julian Salomons ; John M'Laughlin; A. G,
Taylor.
XL. Not the Answer He Expected. Out of the
Mouth of Babes, &c. Things We See, &c.—
F. W. Ward ; Thomas Garrett; James Ogg.
XLI. An Illustrated Advertisement.- Jack Want; a
Portrait.
XLII. Too Often True. Things We See, &e.—F. M.
Goodwin ; a Portrait ; a Caricature.
XLIII. A Civil Service Elysium. Things We See,
&c.—A Portrait; George Reid ; George
Dibbs.
XLIV. A Jubilee Example. Dreadful, indeed!
Things We See, &c.—Patrick Jennings;
Henry Parkes ; Alfred Allen.
XLV. An Ancient Joke. St. John Redivivus.
Things We See, &c.—F. R. Spofforth ; the
Bishop of Katoomba.
XLVI. A Pleasant Alternative. The Proverb was
Correct. Two actors—W. Elton; Alfred
Dampier.
XLVII. Innocence. Things We See When We Come
Out Without Our Gun, &«.—Newly Im-
ported ; the Marchioness of Drogheda; the
Marquis of Drogheda.
XLVIII. Her Last Place. It does, indeed! Things
We See, &o.—The Waiter; A Portrait;
Francis Myers.
XLIX. Australian Anatomical Theology. Things
We See, &o.—Captain Wallington; A
Sydney Solicitor ; Dean O’Haran.
L. The Idea ! He Swore to Cherish Her. Things
I We See, &c.—Two Portraits ; Panton.
LI. She Never Stopped. Things We See, &c.—
Davies ; Saul Samuel.
LII. Fraternity. Inevitable. Things We See, &c.
—Thomas Bent,; Chief Commissioner
Chomley ; B. Whittington.
LIII. Th° Exact Truth. Fashionable Modesty.
Things We See, —Marquis of Queens-
bury ; Butters A Portrait.
LIV. John’s Reason. Things We See, &c.—Bryan
O’Loglilen ; J. Dow ; Dean o’llea.
LV. A Cruel Jibe. Things We See, &c.—R. Bur-
dett. Smith ; Bishop Field-Flowers Goe ;
B. J. Fink.
LVI. Symbolic. The Same Old Sex. Things We
See, &c. Governor Loch; Exhibition
' Jouhert; A Portrait.
LVII. On the Mountains. Things We See, &c.—
James Meßain ; “Railway” Speight;
Verdon.
LVIII. An rher Royal Pauper. In the Park. Things
" ’ &c.—Melton Prior ; Zox ; Howard
Willoughby. >.
LIX. A Talking Salad. The Rivals ! Things Wfe
See, &c._Two Portraits; Dr. Beaney;
Surgeon Fitzgerald.
LX. Quid Pro Quo. Things We See, &o.—A Por-
trait : Melton Prior; R. S. Smythe ; A
Portrait; Farrar and His Two Companions.
LXI. The Chinaman and His Charmers—A Sydney
, Sketch, Things We See. &c.—Ernest Ben-
son ; Portraits; Reginald Black; Fred.
Leslie.
LXII. He Wore Thirteens. An Easy One. Things
e See, &o. —G. R. Allen ; Zerbini ; A Por-
trait; Ben no Scherek : A Portrait.
LXIII. A Glimpse of Paradise. Things We See. &c.
—A Portrait; Dr. L. L. Smith ; Theodore
Fink ; a Portrait. ’ '
LXIV. A Protnising Infant. Things We See, &e.—
- J. L. Purves.; James Mirams; Duncan
Gillies ;■ Thomas Hales ; A. G. Dawes.
LXV. A Brother Monarch’s Straight Tip. Things
We See, etc.—Lionel Cowan ; Frederick
Cowen; Samuel Leon ; E. L. Zox; Phil
May.
LXVI. The Sydney Publicans have Doubled the
Price of Drinks!
LXVII. Civility Costs Nothing. Oh ! Don’t It,
Though?
LxVIII. His Wife’s Pocket.
LXIX. A Sense of Proportion.
LXX. ’' he Pacificator.
LXXI. Harmony.
LXXII. Petticoat Protection—A Harbour of Refuge.
LXXIII. The New Hebrides Question —A Sydney
Meeting in the Eighties.
LXXIV. Chinese Cheap Labour.
LXXV. The Mongolian Octopus—His Grip on Aus-
tralia.
LXXVI. The New Hebrides Once More.
LXXVII. “Poor Pf ella Me ! ” ,
LXXVIII. The Angel of Civilisation.
LXXIX. The Modern South Sea Pirate.
LXXX. The Statue and the Queen.
LXXXI. “Graciously Pleased, Indeed I"
LXXXII. The British Lion.
LXXXIII. The Widow’s Mite.
LXXXIV. Under the Lions in Trafalgar Square.
LXXV. The Old Story.
LXXXVI. Duncan Gillies—A Premier Scorned.
LXXXVII. Henry Parkes —A Premier Scornful.
LXXXVIII. Who Is To Stand In Front ?
LXXXIX. The Virtue of Hair—Once More.
LC. The Sydney Baby Market.
LCI. The Tourist in Ceylon.
LCII. A Trip to England in a Mail Steamer.
LOIII. A Sydney Larrikiness in the ’Eighties.
LOIV. That’s Me When I’m Old.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER COMPANY, LIMITED,
214 George Si, Sydney, Australia.
Book trade Advertisement.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Mpckley-F’erry man, Military Sketching:, 6s 6d, postage 6d.
M'Carthy (Justin), Portraits of thg Sixties, 7s 6d, p. Sd.
Miltoun, Pickens’ London, 7s 6d, p. 6d.
Russell, Borlase and Son, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hume (Fergus), The Silver Bullet, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Bullen, Sea-Wrack, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Chesney, The Baptist Ring, 2s 6d &3s 6d, p. 6d. ;
M'Outcheon, Castle Craneycrow, 2s Gd & 3s Gd, p. 6d.
Kipling-, Just So Song- Book, 6s, postage 6d.
Dev, ant, Magic Made Easy, Is 3d, p. 3d.
Fanny Burney, by Dobson (Eng. Men Letters), 2s 6d,p, 4d,
Paternoster, The Motor Pirate, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Strain, Laura’s Legacy, 3s Gd, p. 6d.
Lee, A Baronet in Corduroy, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
Sor the LTJIsfGS, the THROAT, the VOICE.
. - TH E . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cars of
Coughs l Colds!
Bronchitis!
and *
Influenza
sod the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. the Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected King.
A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SINGER S
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHGL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain NO Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs. °
Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1 6, or from the Manufacturer, G. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on re-
ceipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5& 7 Queen’s Place. Made in Australia. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z.


m
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
iS'sriDKrE'y.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.
Are by far the most successful Salesmen
Ltd.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Babbit and Opossum
m
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Go-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation.
SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT (
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES*
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
m ‘ “” .
HlBw« rfißimtiJbUAZnuu. £j.
MEN'S TREBLE-SEWN LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, s|oz.-Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS-
-ss, 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WISDEN’S LEATHER BALLS-
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS-
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS.- sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ \No. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
BATS / 6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d, ls6d, 2s, 2s 6d
BOYS’ BATS, \ No. 3 4 5 6
Cane— / —3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \ss 6d, 6s Pd, 7s Cd, 8s 6d
All Cane — J 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d
MEN'S CANEI
and RUBBER)
BATS- J
14s 6d, 15s, 15s 6d,
17s 6d, 18s 6d, 20s,
16s 6d
25s
Send for Catalogue, Post Free—full
list of Bats, by all Best Makers.
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEG GUARDS—
Boys’, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS-
Boys’, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
15s S6t
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s 6d, 88s 6d, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
Deh&y
3s 6d
cm
HANbICAP
Standard
7a 3d
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure in
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24b
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 255, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players—
30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, See.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation
Covered Regulation
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg.
SLAZENGER’S Covered...
AYRES’ Grey Reg.
AYRES’ Covered ...
AYRES’ Champion... ...
4s 6d doz.
9s 6d
10s
16s „
8s 6d ~
12s 6d, 15s
... 16s
Taylor's
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted ... ... 16s 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted ... .*> ... 20s, 24s
TAYLOR’S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted ... 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped by the
N.S. W. Bowling Association.
Remittance, including' payment for
freight, must accompany eaeh order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Our Books tell about it!
They explain everything you wish to know. They tell exactly whether your ailment can be cured by
Electricity, and the treatment of same. They tell of the many disorders that are cured by its use, and some of
the wonderful results that have been obtained. If your ailments be
Nervousness or Weakness, with Loss of Energy or Ambition; if you
have a Weak Back, or a pain over the Kidneys, and down into the
groin ; if you suffer from a bad working Liver, or have Indigestion,
Dyspepsia, Flatulency, Acidity, Headaches, or Disturbed Sleep, with
furred tongue in the mornings ; if your complaint be Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Lumbago, or any Pain or Ache of the Limbs or Body—then
Electricity is the remedy for you. Send for one of our Books at once.
They tell you more about these ailments. In addition they are full
of Engravings showing how the Belt and attachments are applied.
They cost you nothing, and will benefit you to have one. Sent
FREE and postage paid to any address.
SEE THESE RESULTS
Mr. D. 0. HOLMES, C.N. (late R.N.), KYMETON,
VIC., writes Dear Sirs,-1 am very pleased with
the Belt so far. It is doing what you said it would,
and I feel the better for wearing it. I used to feel
knocked up after a day’s work, but now I feel it
hardly at all, so I say thank Cod for all things, and
I thank you, too, for your kindness in what you
have been the means of doing with an old veteran
who was 70 years of age on the 9th November,
1903. I hope you will be spared for many years
to come to relieve suffering humanity.
“ ELECTRICITY IS LIFE.”
Nature’s natural assistant. It is
a vitaliser. It acts directly upon
the energy we call “Life.” It for-
tifies its strength. It increases
and stimulates its activity. And
no Weak ITan or Sickly Woman
can remain in health without it.
Mr. W. LEADBITTER, CLARENCE TOWN, N.S.W.,
writes:—Dear Sirs,—l must say your Belt is a
wonderful thing. I cannot see why people are so
blind as not to see the virtue of it. The money
spent on it is not thrown away. My pains are
leaving me fast, and by the next time I write I
expect to be able to say that I am quite right.
Mr. J. R. DIXON, ARMIDALE, N.S.W., states
Bear Sirs,—Now that I have worn and tested your
Belt lam not afraid to speak of its great good. It
is indeed a marvel, and where all kinds of medi-
cine has failed it has brought relief. I can sleep
much better, and rise worderfuLy invigorated in
the morning after heavy Sunday services. My
health is improving daily, and I must thank you
for your kind advice for I am truly a new man.
Your Belt is a “Cod-given Gift” to anyone who
may be suffering.
Dr. McLaughlin s electric belt
A
vr->
kk
will do for you what all the Drugs on earth cannot do. It puts back
into the System the Electricity, which, having been wasted, causes
most of the troubles of mankind. It tones, strengthens, and builds
up the body, and where disease lurks (the result of these weaknesses)
it heals as no other treatment can. Every Weak Man or Woman
will find this Belt the only genuine relief.
Do Not Buy an Electric Belt until you have
absolutely decided to take No More Drugs.
Read this Testimony
Mr. WILLIAM GUTHRIE, 34 Earl-street, Petrie
Terrace, BRISBANE, Q’LAND, says Dear Sirs
Before l grot your Belt I was troubled with gravel
with all its severe pains, but since wearing your
Belt I thank God and you for my health being
restored, and l have no other trouble. lam glad
to say I am quite cured now. The Belt has brought
me out of misery to good health and spirits, and
if people only knew of it they would not suffer as
they do.
That Electricity is the greatest
Curative Agent, the greatest Life
Giver and Sustained is now recog*
nised universally. Every muscle
of the body may be thoroughly
and systematically exercised, and
the nerve centres stimulated, by
the mild, pleasant, steady current
generated by This Belt.
Mr. A. 0. GORMAN, Florence-street, PORT PIRIE,
S.A., writes Dear Sirs,—Your letter of Inquiry to
hand. lam pleased to be able to say that the
Belt continues to work to full satisfaction, and
gives no trouble. As regards health it has Im-
proved me wonderfully, and I have not had the
sligh test sign of any pain across my back, as I
did before wearing the Belt. Now that I have thq
Belt i would not be without it for a smali fortune.
Mr. VINCENT PAIS, CLADESVILLE, N.S.W., says:
Dear Sirs,—With much pleasure I beg to bring to
your kind notice that, within two months’ time,
your Belt has cured my back and neckache per-
fectly, and it is one month now since l left off the
use of your Belt, and as I do not suffer in any way
I think there is no need of wearing your Belt any
more. For your pleasure I take the interest of
writing you these few lines for the publication as
my true letter.
To anyone calling we will be pleased to show the working nunue rrui uectnc Appliance
be regulated so that it may be worn without the slightest inconvenience. Hours
lIWW IX
— - - nours 9a.rn.toB3op.rn,
Send for our Free Book and Advice to-day, and if your case is undertaken we guarantee a Cure.
The DR. McI.AUGHI.IN GO.
50 BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
100 W. Market Street, Sydney
167 E. Swanston Street, Melbourne
N.Z. Cffice-54: Willis St., Wellington.


2""
‘ ‘. ‘ ‘
I ', .':‘- n" 2"
' ‘I‘ y? ‘-')l 11L :\
mm ' ")‘l)
f nit)? ," :1 9
"i 3214“
‘.,_ ~ ‘3’ , 'uaﬁfm'v: :r‘ﬂ,‘
. , , ‘
. a ‘ V. ') “..si‘m/x
, ('1 ,‘ I ) ‘
x. I} .m.7«\‘2.’r ‘J 9
. ““7‘7' J . val,“
l ANThOS my,» 5. ‘ﬁ
' ‘
I'L,9VF._.L}’,,}TWR*%
r 41/4511 41K! “Win
'4
-Mwvressou /v\UD t>'s
ct <^lntmos”
S T ?«« air FALL!NG OUT-
„ PREVENTS Baldn fss -
_P t RIC E £ /£_ ir ~~ pos l C D 3/a -
Kromo
9 1V t<}; M X' cP.Lp KTO G RLY hAt R
* y~ no acids-
****WrpwSS*
4$
PfUCP.
*
Flavelle, Roberts $ Sankey,uj.
Lapidaries ....
Gem Merchants and. .
Manufacturing Jewellers
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
12
No. 1.
No. 2.
No. 3.-
No. 4.-
No. 5.-
No. 6.-
No. 7.-
No. 8.-
No. 9.
No. 10.
No. 11.
No. 12.
No. 13.-:
-3 Fine Brilliant Diamonds £4O, smaller to £10: with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamonds, £25.
•J F '" , A X'ii n .mo“,! l !?r2. » 1 3 Pin. Pearls
•1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting', £lO to £l6
1 OueensU 11 To E azes and 2 Queensland Rubies £6.
1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £5 ; 1
, m Q“ eens ' and Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s. '
■1 Pine "earl and Diamond Cluster, £2B: 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
-1 Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubies, £4 10s.
—1 Opal and Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
1 White Topaz (as brilliant as the
•Marquise of Brilliant Diamonds, £lB to £3O.
Send for Booklet on “The Gem
Products of Queensland.”
WE HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OF UNSET OEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 100,000 OEMS ON HAND.
MEN!
Obey the Scriptural injunction;—
11 acquit you as men: BE STRONG.”
the grand old doctor.
Surgeon
Langston
M.R.C.S., Bng.
Late Surgeon in Imperial
Forces, Army Medical Staff,
Royal Engineers, formerly
Government Health Officer,
Tasmania, registered in Eng-
land and Australia, and
authorised by Act of Parlia-
ment to practice in all
branches of Medicine and
; Surgery.
■
»I
The OLDEST and MOST
RELIABLE SPECIALIST
in all eases of
Nervous Disorders,
Varicocele,
Rheumatism,
Kidney Troubles,
Lame Back,
Rupture,
HIGHEST HEALTH HONORS.
INVENTOR of the LATEST and GREATEST STRENGTH RESTORER.
:/
v
w
THE TRIUMPH OF MEDICAL ELECTRICITY.
It Is NOT a BELT, but BETTER than ANY BELT.
For Forty Years I have
been curing Thousands
suffering from the same
Weakness
as you.
Let me Cure You.
Many Benefits are lost
through hesitation.
It is easier to give you back
your
Health
now than it will be later on.
SURGEON
LANGSTONS
Combined Remedies
FOR
Nervous Afflictions
AND
Associate Complaints
ARE THE
Reigning Remedies.
"Mens Sana in Corpore Sana."
A treatise on Nerve Diseases
and Ailments of Men. The latest
medical thought put in the most
instructive and interesting form.
Teaches how to gain and retain
a sound mind in a sound body ;
post free for six stamps.
Rupture:lts History and Cure."
A valuable work, showing the
certainty of Restoration without
operation ; post free four stamps.
“Diseases of Mankind."—A
handy compendium relating to
®-V m Pt°ms, dangers, and cure
of Nervous Complaints, Kidney
Troubles, Nasal, Throat and
Lung Diseases, and associate
evils ; post free four stamps.
They tell you what you should
know, and what you want to
know.
Consult me FREE, either Personally
SURGEON LANGSTON,
129 COLLINS STREET,
Melbourne. Victoria.
THE LAST OF SIX
Price 6d.,
Pott Fr*~-
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 6.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors oply pay for wfcat tbcy actually ba ye.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
engage eoomsat ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.-Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO UEFY OOMPSTITIONi
WINES *»• 8wl * SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral WATERS, CORDIALS, to.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY,
41
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Soar Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
MAGNESI
ill
m
m
There's SECURITY Ih
m
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
i FURRED TONGUE.
| INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
BALLOW SKIN.
Snail Pill. Small Dote. Small PM
they TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are- Carter's
PAY WHEN CURED
.- 15"”. ,’
{4, ‘1".
._ J‘ .l - '1’)
39 F‘“ /., .-
(I. f ‘.
I I\, ‘
,5? ‘ ,
\‘O‘ r' 9‘
o.‘
t ev ?rybody suffering from Rheumatism,
.Lumbago, Dyspepsia, Varicocele, Nervousness, Weak Back,
•Laver, .Kidney or Stomach Troubles, or from any weaknesses
Belt 1 Free r^anS ’ t 0 OUr latest Improved High Grade
5,000 FREE!
We have just completed our Medical Treatise, “Electro
rs euro Iherapy, a copy of which we will send free, prepaid,
to all writing us. It is invaluable to every weak man and
woman. It is fully illustrated, and can be had for the asking.
A post card will do. Write for it to-day.
No Cure, No Pay.
1 will cure you free if you will let us, and if we fail it
will cost you nothing. You can have our latest Improved
Belt on Trial Free. One does for eight persons. If you need
treatment write to us, and we will send you this splendid new
Belt, hree on trial. We want every weak man and woman
to write us to-day. Delay no longer, as we can cure you free.
The Dr. J. H. Austin Electric Co.
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
New Zealand Branch- i 9 PRINCES STREET, DUNEDIN.
(Dept. M.)


“A friend
in need is a
friend in-
deed.” This
is an old
proverb,
but as true
as it is old.
Here is just
such a friend.
Never be
without it. Keep it
close at hand all the
time.
m
Ayers
Cherry Pectoral
It will prove a good friend when you
hare a fresh cold, bringing immediate
relief. You will find it equally true
in old colds, bronchitis, whooping-
cough, asthma.
And you will declare it “the best
friend in the world” if you will use
it for an irritable throat or weak lungs.
It acts as a strong tonic, clearing up
the throat, giving tone to the related
tissues, and greatly strengthening the
lungs.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure you
get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr- J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Wore a Torture
BELT.
SUFFERED TERRIBLE AGONY.
From wearing an Electric Belt
charged by the use of
SULPHURIG TIG ID.
Mr. W. Folley, Alfred Woollen Mills,
Williamstown, Vic., writing to the Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt Co., tells how he
was scarred and burned by the use of a
Free Belt, which he had erroneously
been led to believe was as good as theirs.
He paid £4 for the Free Belt because
he had been convinced that by paying
this cash price he was obtaining a similar
appliance to Dr. McLaughlin’s Famous
rejuvenator which has gained World
Wide fame as a Curative Agent. It goes
to show how misleading are advertise-
ments which seem to offer something for
nothing.
Gentlemen—ln answer to your kind in-
quiries after my health, I beg to state that
I have been completely cured of the Scia-
tica that has troubled me for years. I
cannot thank you enough for your gentle-
manly treatment and fair dealing with your
patients, as I know from others that their
treatment has been the same as mine.
I may just as well let you know my ex-
perience in seeking a cure for my trouble
before I purchased one of your High Grade
Belts. I had been under doctors and re-
ceived scant relief; and also tried various
quacks, but it was all the same. I then
placed myself in the hands of a Specialist
(in Melbourne) guaranteed to cure Rheu-
matism and Sciatica, but received very
small benefit from the treatment. I then
had my attention drawn to Electricity.
Well, I thought, “ Never venture, never
win,” so I PROCURED first of all a Belt
for £1 and was very much disappointed
because I was informed that it was neces-
sary to take a long and exceedingly ex-
pensive course of drug treatment. I would
not do this and then I wrote for, and ob-
tained a so-called Free Belt , with a
most “ Wonderful Pedigree,” at a cost of
£4. I wore the Belt according to the in-
structions given faithfully for a period of
five weeks, and by that time I was Burnt
and Blistered so badly that I could not
wear it longer, and still no relief was
gained, although the Belt was guaranteed
to Cure Anything in Sciatica in One
Month. You bet I was very much dis-
couraged in regard to Electric Belts.
However, I was persuaded to come and
just see you, gentlemen. I then found
that I had been wearing a Torture Belt
and very Wrongly Applied, and quite
enough to give and patient a Horror of
so-called Electric Belts. After the con-
sultation I decided to place myself in your
hands. I knew my case was very dilfi-
cult, as I was compelled to follow my em-
ployment, and standing at the vice was
irksome, and the complaint was a very
stubborn one. However, gentlemen, your
Belt, coupled with your advice, has made
me a grateful patient. I thank you kindly
for supplying me with a remedy which has
Completely Cured Me, and strongly recom-
mend it to all and sundry that I find are
suffering from the distressing malady
called “ Sciatica.”
I have not been wearing the Belt for the
past fortnight, but have passed it over to
my wife, who has received great benefit
for nervous troubles.
I remain, your grateful patient,
W. FOLLEV
GENUINE BELTS give GENUINE RELIEF.
.Send to THE DR. McLAUGHLIN CO.,
IOOW Markefc-st., Sydney ; 167 J Swanston-st. Melbourne
14 Willis-Bt., Wellington, N.Z.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Exiles From Dreamland.
Where the ebb-tide of the sunset laps the floating
peaks in gold ;
Where the moon-glade, molten silver, on the
fields of sea lies cold ;
Where the columns of the rainbow in the cliffs of
mist are set,
We, the exiles from our Palace, see its splendors
mirrored yet.
Ah, that we once more might dwell there—snatch
a golden hour to spend
At the looms where dreams are fashioned, where
their shining colors blend —
Till the Gates of Morn swing open, for the Fates
will have it so,
And the gleaming looms are broken, and ’tis time
for us to go!
So we leave it, looking backward on the Palace
that we knew,
Going slowly, going sadly, bidding all our dreams
adieu;
While the vision-haunted towers, and the peals of
fairy bells,
Fade from sight and die from hearing as the last
carillon swells.
One long lo_.k ! Flash back the sunshine, Oye
walls of Fairyland !
Make the vision one to treasure when those walls
no longer stand.
Then, farewell! The splendor passes as it reaches
greatest worth,
In a blaze of brighter glory than our sun may
bring to birth.
VIO.
RETTLEDRUM.
Wine and Rosea.
The wine is red
As my hot blood. A star
Glows in its heart as burns a star in mine;
And it is said
The God of Things That Are
Spins in their orbits all the stars that shine.
So let us rest!
While, sounding sweet and low,
Your crooning song my troubled thoughts com-
poses;
And from the West
Soft breezes sweep, and blow
The heavy scent of red, red lover’s roses.
Ah 1 melody
Of rose-scent and guitar !
Ah ! voice and fingers that make song of all!
How sweet ’twould be
If God Who dwells afar
Would bear us, singing, to His Festival;
And in the West,
So rich in red and gold,
Bid us go '.ree to gather dew-wet posies,
Where Love is blest
And none grow soured and old,
But dream and dream among the red, red roses.
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
“Little Love.”
Little Love woke with the sun in her eyes,
Woke an ■ looked over the ridges
With a thought in her heart that was sweet with
surprise.
“ Ah ! how golden the sun on the far wattle lies
Where he shall come over the ridges.”
Little Love leaned from her window to see
The dew of the morn on the roses.
“How fair that olosed bud on the morrow shall
be ;
I shall beg him to reach up and pluck it for me,
And crown me his queen of the roses.”
Little Love sleeps with the moon on her eyes,
The moon that rose over the ridges.
How wondrously still, and how whitely she lies—
Hands clasped o’er the bosom that scarce seems
to rise
To the breath of the breeze from the ridges.
Little Love sleeps so waxen and cold,
As white as her own snowy roses ;
A lover to waken her needs must be bold—
Ah ! Love when he comes to his bride will be told
To cover her coffin with roses !
Q.
M. FORREST.
Voiceless.
Out of the long, lone night,
Out of our earth-homes low,
The voice of the voiceless dead
That lie in a restless bed
Rises all filled with woe.
Softer than falls the rain
Fell on my heart their thought—
Wrapt in a winding sheet,
Bound at the brows and feet
We hear, but we answer naught.
Faces we dearly love
Weeping above us come ;
But still in the earth we lie,
Still without word or cry,
Stirred to the heart, but dumb.
Not though they strive and toil
Lone in a friendless land,
May we from prison leap
Out of our seeming sleep,
Comfort in voice and hand.
Oh, for a tongue to speak !
Oh, for a word to say !
Wrapt in an icy sheet,
Bound at the brows and feet,
Wait we the Coming Day.
N.S.W.
CHAS. E. HOWELL.
Australian Mutual Provident Society-
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Next Distribution of the Profits
as at 3lBt December, 1903.
Policies Issued before the Close of the Year will share In the bonus to be then divided.
The Amount of Cash Sonus divided among: the members for the single year 1902 was £558,808.
(All Bonuses vest on Policies attaining a duration of two years.)
Persons desirous of effecting assurances with this Society are particularly requested to note
and to see that their applications are sent in early, either direct or through any of Society Agents, so as to reap
the benefit of this year’s Bonus. gO~ Accumulated Funds, £19,000,000 ; Annual Income, £2,530,000.
Directors — Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman; The Hon. B.
J. Black, M.L.0.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.; Senator J. T. Walker; Benjamin Short, Esq.; and Jamm
Burns, Esq. • General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teecb, F.1.A., F.F. A., F.S.S.
Head Office— 87 Pitt Street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS and SANKEY, Ltd.
Occulists’ Opticians, and
Manufacturers of Spectacles >
Brisbane and Rockhampton
OPTICAL BRANCH presided over by Mr. CHAS. SANKEY FRASER, F.S.n.C., Etc., Etc., who hold*
the highest qualifications as an Optician in all Australia, viz. : Diploma Applied Optics, Northamton
Institute, London ; Diploma Visual Optica, Northamton Institute, London ; Diploma of the British Optical
Association, London ; Fellow of the Worshipful Company of Spectacle Makers of London, and Freem'an of the
City of London ; Author of “ The Human Eye.” Send for Copy—Post Free.
Correspondence Invited—Prompt Attention Assured.
Recommended by Leading Occulists. “*1
The Best and the Cheapest.
“ 37‘. Su
¢:<?;:-.;.‘., talk
Double Seated
Turnout Seat
Buggy - £lB lOe.
With Brake and
Lamps.
Sulkies • £8 lOe.
Send for a
Catalogue.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex St., Sydney.
A‘LH/“i,
AwJ-JAS.
Board BttggieS
Reliable and
Strong, £9 10s.
Large Stocks of
i all light vehicles,
i Buggies, Sulkies,
Phaetons. Send
rfor a Catalogue.
H. HILLIEft.
180 Sussex-street
Sydney, H.S.w.
It. If. SMITH
21/-
21/-
Coavincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wales.
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value—best in Austral-
asia. v ..
Your-s truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading- Jeweller-
H. F. SMITH,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
Mmmmt
SSSSBF"
¥ \
©
.22 Caliber Cartridges
If you want to use .22 Caliber Ritn Fire Cartridges that shoot
strongly and accurately, buy the time-tried Winchester make,
having the trade-mark “H ” on the head. They cost but a
few pence more a box than the cheap, unreliable kind, and
they are shillings better. Winchester .22 Caliber Cartridges
are furnished loaded with either black or smokeless powder, the
latter being loaded with the celebrated Winchester Grease-
less Bullets, which make them very clean to handle.
FOR SALE BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
Before purchasing WINCHESTER GOODS
Send for our Rifle Catalogue. Post Free.
PERRY BROS* -
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
COOLING,
FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT/
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTIONI— See Capsule marked ENO’B ‘FRUIT SALT;* Without It you hay «
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepaid only by J. Q. ENO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, BNGK,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, do., everywhere •


A NOVEL PRESENT.
receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 6/- we will forward to
v any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6,
In lfiot. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
THE ELECTRIC ERA
0-v
fJi
ml \
'S
Which we send FREE
TO ALL explains WHY
weak men are WEAK,
and STRONG men are
STRONG. It deals
comprehensively with
the CAUSES and
SYMPTOMS of disease.
It explains their
ORIGIN and shows
how they can be
SPEEDILY CURED by
restoring the consti-
tutional VITALITY
to the NERVOUS and
physically WEAK
MAN or WOMAN. It
tells you how LAME
BACK, KIDNEY
TRO ÜBLES, RHE U-
MATISM, SCIATICA,
ASTHMA, BRON-
CHITIS, INDIGES-
TION and TORPID
LIVER can be OUR HD. How WEAKNESS and
DEBILITY can be replaced by ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOR. It is of VITAL interest to the SICK, the
SUFFERING and the WEAK. * It is sent in a PLAIN
SEALED envelope, and is FREE TO ALL. Call or write.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
Dept. H., 63 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
EVERY WOMAN
m
Is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The bestj
safest and most convenient.
J[t Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
P*oculars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. * Endorsed by Physicians.
v.v Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed
r'.’\;~
’3‘)"
V Y
\ v
1 ‘ .
J‘; I,"
V" “\\‘ n‘.:
I “\ ‘3“ ‘
1 .‘\“‘I\‘.\
‘1 \‘..~\‘-
,5 “ ' “x
l ,‘
I f . ‘
(-:- .
*5“ ‘
6‘1 4
\ __ ‘ ‘
Q , “’
‘ . ‘h V ‘
“ ACTS UKR A CHARM.”
JONES’
Kheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CORE
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
2 8 . 9d. PER BOTTLE
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
and 29 Niagara Lace, Melbourn#
WILD WITH ECZEMA
And Other Itching, Burning,
Scaly Eruptions with
Loss of Hair.
Speedy Cure Treatment.
Bathe the affected parts with Hot Water and Cuticura Soap, to
cleanse the surface of crusts and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and apply Cuticura Ointment
freely, to. allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, and lastly take Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A single set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, burning, scaly, pimply humours, eczemas, rashes*
Irritations, and chafings, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
The agonizing itching and burning of the skin, as in eczema; the fright-
ful scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair and crusting of the-scalp, as in
scalledhead; the facial disfigurement, as in pimples and ringworm; the
awful suffering of infants and the anxiety of worn-out parents, as in milk
crust, tetter, and salt rheum, all demand a remedy of almost superhuman
virtues to successfully cope with them. Such are the Cuticura remedies,
the purest, sweetest, most speedy and economical curatives for the skin, 1 ,
scalp, and blood ever compounded. Mothers are their warmest friends.
Millionsof Women UseCuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp cf crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes and chafings, in the form of baths for
annoying irritations and inflammations of women, or too free or offensive
perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves, as well as 1
for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
C IT (! RA RRMVFNT Pll I C (Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
vH j,7 lILOULI Lll I IILLu odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
_ Cuticura Remedies are Bold throughout the ■world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.. Svdnev. British
B*P°h 27-28, Charterhouse Sq. . London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Piris. Potter I)rug and Chem.
lokp., Dole iTops., Boston, U. S. A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
m
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR’S
ANCHOVY PASTE
IN LARGE AND SMALL TINS.
Manufrs.—JOHN MOIR & SONS, Ltd., LONDON, ABERDEEN and
SEVILLE. Head Office s 8 & 10, Great Tower St., LONDON, E.C.
MAKES tin SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
*nd entirely removes
ATTACK
of
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, V ~ 4 2/6,
mOSOUSTOES, Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Sydneyj Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
m
WILL
ANDRADE
BOOKS
LIST OF
* $3; 1..“
N. ' V
“K L
-%\
k‘éx 1L _.,///
x 1 ‘65s”
BOOK OP NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 60 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigoer Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise :Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, 1 s 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of 'Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Cloo Dancing, Is. Our New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 6s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
AND any book you want.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of anv State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2 : Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
R-ench Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6 :
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET,
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
SYDNEY
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHiS.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co. 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. l|d. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
J. LANDES,
108 Pitt St., Sydney.
The Largest and most reliable House in
Australasia for Automatic Machines and
Novelties of every description.
The biggest Money Making Machines for
Hotels, Refreshment Rooms, Tobacco-
nists, etc., always in stock, and each
machine guaranteed.
The following: are some of our best known Machines
In use:
The “ Challenge ” Punching Machine—ld. Slot
The Novelty Pool Tabje Machine (game skill)—3d. Slot—
pays value in goods.
The “ Australia 6 Slots Spots and P. Machine—3d. Slot
—pays value in goods.
The Monte Carlo—s Slots Machine—3d. Slot—pays value
in goods.
The Electric Pocket Lights, with extra recharge, reduced
from 21s. to 10s. 6d.
All Goods shipped freight paid.
SSTOur Illustrated Catalogue free on application.
NERVOUSNESS.
XiOSS of ENIBGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY,
* Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Free for Asking,
%*#RITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
” * book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and Vigorous— the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ili-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
fto the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
fTHAT REFRESHING FEELING 1
of thorough purification given by |
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
makes its use delightful in hot climates.
It is perfectly pure, and contains
10% Crystal Carbolic, an excellent
precaution against infection.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC OINTMENT
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients to
cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed skin, piles,
cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
ENGLAND.
THE BALLET GIRL
‘3.- .3.
3.5" V5.5
{‘5‘ I ““‘x
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is
The Life, Adventures
and Concisions|f »
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
tend stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
BOX 013* 0.P.0.. OVOW* V '


Eight Years’ Dyspepsia.
A LONG PERIOD OF SUFFERING.
A WELCOME FRIEND IN TIME OF NEED.
The Case of Mire. 8. BROWN.
(BY oub reporter.)
If you are imbued with any desire to gain
an insight into the methods adopted by
people whose efforts are attended with suc-
cess, you cannot do better than read the
following narrative, which was related by
Mrs. Selina Brown, of No. 5 Little Edward-
street, Pyrmont.
“ One day,” said Mrs. Brown, “as I was
talking to a young girl at the front door, a
strange and overpowering sensation came
over me, which caused me to have a fit, and
I was taken indoors and put to bed, where
I was lying unconscious for three days. A
doctor was called in, but he said that he
could not account for the sudden turn I
had taken. He prescribed some medicine,
which did not have any beneficial effect,
as three weeks later I took another fit in my
sleep, after which I was so feeble that I had
to keep to my bed for several days, and
again the doctor was brought to my bed-
side.”
“Previous to taking the fits were you in
good health ? ” asked the reporter.
“ I was not at all well, as you may gather
from the fact that for eight years I suffered
from indigestion,” answered Mrs. Brown.
“ For a long time I seemed as if I had no
use in my body to work at all. I felt
languid and depressed in spirits, and did
not care whether I lived or died ; neither
could I sleep well. It was a perfect misery
for me to go to bed, a 9 my mind was so un-
settled that I felt as if I wanted to walk
about all night. Just as I thought I was
falling asleep I commenced to think about
some troublesome subject which generally
occupied my mind till morning, and when I
got up I was too exhausted to do anything,
and with a taste in my mouth that made
everything seem bitter. The only sleep I
got was always accompanied by dreadful
dreams, so that I never got any proper rest.
The sense of hunger was a stranger to me
entirely, but in spite of that I took a little
food occasionally, or else I should have
starved.”
“ Did the food do you any good ? ”
“ I am sure it did not do me much good,
if any, for I was continually getting weaker
and thinner, and the worst of it was that
eating always gave me such awful pains in
the stomach, where windy spasms made me
feel as if I wanted to tear my clothes off, no
matter how loose they were. A heaviness
in my chest also troubled me greatly, for as
each breath was drawn a smothering sensa-
tion came over me, and at the same time I
suffered acutely from pains under my
shoulder-blades and about my back. Every-
thing possible seemed to go against me at
once, as I was often incapacitated from
going about the house owing to my feet
swelling and my limbs aching, across the
loins especially Unless I was very careful
and slow in my movements I became so
giddy that I could not stand, while extrema
nervousness was another torture. I was
afraid to move in the dark lest something
would happen to me, and if anything gave
me the least excitement my nerves shook to
such an extent that the vibration of my
limbs was quite visible. Little did I think
that something even worse than these ail-
ments was jr store for me, but my experi-
ence goes to show how a person’s constitu-
tion is gradually wrecked, and what fright-
ful results are likely to follow. After my
sudden seizures I was in a more hopeless
state than ever. My head pains were so
bad that I could not bear anybody to speak
to me, and any food that I took was always
vomited. The medicines and powders which
were given to me were of no avail, and at
length I crawled out of bed and went to
another doctor, who told me I ought to go
to a hospital. Having three young children
I did not like doing so, and instead of going
to a hospital I came home.”
“ Were you wise in going agauut the
doctor’s advice?”
“It turned out to be the best thing I
could have possibly done, as a neighbour
shortly afterwards came in to see me for the
purpose of reading a cure performed by
Clements Tonic. When she had finished
the storj r she exclaimed : * That is just how
you are. Why don’t you try it?’ 1 said,
‘I believe I will.’ When my husband
came home he thought I was going
to the hospital, but I said, ' I’m not
going, Bring me home a bottle of
Clements Tonic, and I will try it.’ On
my word of honor, I felt a slight im*
provement when I had drank only half a
bottle. Just imagine my delight after, the
way I had been disappointed with all other
medicines, especially as I had long since
thought that I was doomed to die, because
I could not get relief. But Clements Tonic
soon eased the terrific pains in my head
(which extended right down my neck), and
when, in a few days, they were gone alto-
gether I could get about a little, for I also
felt more vigorous than I had been for a long
time. The first good night’s rest I had had
for many a month was obtained through the
comforting influences of Clements Tonic, and
when this grand experience had been re-
peated several nights in succession I felt
quite new, for I was happy in the belief
that I might yet recover my health.®2very
tissue in my body seemed to be strengthened
by the wonderful medicine I was taking,
and for sharpening my appetite it was just
the thing. Before long I sat down to my
meals like everybody else in the house, and
I could always take a fair share of whatever
was placed on the table. The neighbours
were intensely surprised to see me up and
about once more, as they had entertained
little hope of ever seeing me well again, I
had no trouble in keeping my food down,
and every day I found greater relief from
the symptoms of indigestion. The. pa ns
finally left my stomach and shoulders, and
I could breathe without gasping as I used
to, for the oppression had disappeared from
my chest, aud with returning strength my
limbs acquired freedom from all aches.
When I was taking my doctor’s medicines 1
had no desire for anything, but Clements
Tonic gave me a b'ght-hearted inclination to
see everything. By its continued use I
forgot what nervousness was, as I knew no
fear, and my nerves were as steady as a
rock. I was never a stout woman, jet my
diseases had dragged me down considerably,
but C ements Tonic was my sole medicine
till my lost weight was regained, and, re-
markable as it may seem, that is all I
required, for I was then quite cured of
everything. None of my former ailments
were left benind by Clements Tonic, and I
am only speaking the truth when I say that
my life was saved by that medicine. If you
like you can publish my story in any way
you deem fit, as it may alleviate the sufferings
of many more.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Selina Brown, of 5 Little Edward-street,
Pyrmont, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios, and
consecutively numbered from one to four, and that
it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic; and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any way
my statements —which I give voluntarily, with-
out receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Pyrmont, this
tenth day of March, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
JOS. MoDOUGALL, J.P.
WOMEN, BEAD THESE FACTS.
Many of you live far in country parts, where you cannot procure the necessities for the
NURSERY, the BOUDOIR, the HOME. By writing to us you can be certain that your
wants will be supplied. FACE and TOOTH POWDERS, Toilet Requisites in Variety,
Soaps, Perfumes, Patent Medicines, or any indispensable necessity, may be received by parcel,
post a few hours after writing. We have an excellent assortment of Bath Requisites suitable for
Summer requirements. Write to us for price lists, sent free on application.
Dr. Steel’s Celebrated Indigestion
Cure. —The enemy of Indigestion & Dyspepsia.
2s 6d post paid.
Dr. Hughes’ “Pits Epilep.”— A certain
remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms. Won-
derful cures are registered from its use. 5s p. paid
Fincham’s Capaline. —A Nursery Hair-
Wash invaluable for Children’s Use. Destroys
Vermin speedily. No mother should be without
a bottle. Is 6d and 2s 6d, post paid.
Fincham’s “Fearline” Face Bleach.—
For beautifying the Skin and Complexion.
Makes the face, neck and hands as white as a
lily. Sure Cure for Blackheads, Pimples, and
Sallow Skin, &c. 2s 6d post paid.
Pyramid Pile Cure. —A certain remedy.
It is so effective that the worst cases are relieved
in six hours. See you get the G. 5 remedies,
3s. 6d. p. paid. Y
Fincham’s May Blossom Herbal Liver
Tonic. —Made from original recipe of the late
Dr. Fortesque. Corrects all derangements of
the Liver, Bilious Headaches, Sourness of-the
Stomach, Bad Breath, Lassitude, Despondency.
2s. 6d. and 55., post paid.
Dr. Clarkson’s Great Re-Invigorator.
—For weak Dyspeptic men, a splendid Nerve
Tonic and Rejuvenator, promotes Digestion,
increases the Appetite, enriches the Blood, and
gives vital strength. In bottles, 7s. 6d. Three
bottles (a course), £l. Post paid.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be mailed free on application to
C. P. FINCHAM, M.P.S.
pg jwl gnig (Store,
227 Elizabeth Street,
Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
FOft TttE BUSH WoflKElf
Si//<r
am
_ SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
#1 a CERTAIN CURE for Cute, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A_ FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 30 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
OTICE TO IWOLBOURNB VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF tor
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Beasonablo
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied*
V’orS.u.LoL Rights
: ■
TRY
FOOD
Refuse a//Z/n/taf/ons.
Satisfying, Strengthening. Soothing for Infants
Agreeabie.Digestibfo KcflrpJung
AGF//TS FOR SYjDRFY:
SAYfRS AUPORT & POTTfR
RIDGES FOOD MILLS. LONDON. Eng.
DEBILITATED
■WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let ua send you a
»» trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
botanic institute,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
stamps. Address:
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN - and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
s yip isr is
XTSB I—
SPOONER’S
’5‘
0’55: ‘l
‘
K §Pooum'5'
MM “’64
4 . \
v .. ¢,
'f-‘l‘icﬂr-v -" 'N‘-
. ‘~"‘ ¢
‘ my: Lumen aom‘:
r GU!!!) M05 a?
i N
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
(JNIVERBAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing (or
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROOATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plata Powders,
Harness Dressings,
l Etc., Etc.
Sold by Mil Stortkupon,
toot Shopi, Saddltrt, tte
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come aa a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
eeparately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
pr~ BEWARE OF IMITATIONS, to
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
Cockroaches!
BUFFON’S*
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
FOR
Indigestion, Biliousness and
Acidity. <
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS IN
OLD AND YOUNG.
Til Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
gapillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLB AGENTS.
The Result.
CF AIG &, AITKEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Too Stout
I was for years; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
■ending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention, this paper.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use. —Throw the Carbide down the tub
the Machine does the rest.
tohw
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained several
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public art
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement-
We supply Cirbide for any generator either direct, o|
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than ii
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150. ■
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. -
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy •
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstrjs & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is Sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
TRUMAN'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
I SOLD IK two sizes, 9d, A Is. 6d. -
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, tind no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrb A T rum ax,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


IEiNBT.
The
Genuine
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
¥
-1
It
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Qo.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Boom only an
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary-
King Marine Oil Engines.
2i to 500 H.P. 1903 MODELS.
Estimates given for Fitting Cargo Boats, Tug Boats, Fishing Boats and Trawlers, Auxiliary
Power or Pleasure Boats. Vessels of all sizes built and fully equipped.
PUMPING PLANTS. REFRIGERATING PLANTS. COLD STORAGE for P.shing Boats.
Information and Prices furnished by—
j. f. McDermott & co ♦, 30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Factory Agents for Australia and the South Seas.
ANOTHER YEAR—
FINDS
“CAMEO” CIGARETTES
still at the highest pinnacle of public favor. The Proprietors are more than ever determined
to retain their prestige, by maintaining the even excellence, quality and purity of “ CAMEOS/’
ii
Concerning Elgin Watches^
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES :
GENTS.’—4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
, Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents:
SWIFT & GRICE,
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
run
100!
ill
In!
Il lit
Pis
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
1 Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tionto The Manager.
Sweet Tablets.
Simply Eaten.
2 TABLETS A DOSE.
Pleasant to take.
Always Efficacious.
NATURES OWN REMEDY
A TASTELESS* PAINLESS APERIENT
1 1 ■ I
MADE FROM *e & '
Fresh Fr^herss
FOR CHILDREN 1 AND ADULTS.
Highly
Recommended
by LEADING
MEDICAL MEN.
One WELL-KNOWN DOCTOR
writes thus: “The action of
Golden Frutex is as sure as
the sun will rise.”
Absolutely the BEST REMEDY for Stomach, Liver and Kidney Troubles.
Good for INFANTS and AGED alike.
A Splendid ANTIDOTE for SEA-SICKNESS. Obtainable Everywhere—Box, 20 Tablets, Is 6d.
Head Office for Australasia—3l7 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TARPAULINS,
CART, WAGGON and
MACHINERY
Canvas
Cotton Duck
Patent
Waterproof
Cloth.
ALL HAND-SEWN.
4<a
|J - '!( i]
COVERS.
AT SPOT CASH
PRICES.
Estimates Sent by
Ee.urn Post.
SEND FOB LIST.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd.,
7 & 9 MARKET STREET,
SYDIffEY.
t:
fe.'
7>' //
&
-- > fv
JK
A*®/
r-3
ri /
;C=
V
I^Ssg
S £
I
Smoke
teYSTO/Vf
iTobaccoi
MOKE
jw
Ms'
W
?t^3
s»3
KEYSTONE
Tobacco
CUT OT PLUG
n
K.
VO*
CTL3
As upon the
KEYSTONE
o: the ARCH depends the success of the building:,
so upon
“KEYSTONE” TOBACCO
depends the success of the Smoke.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0. 1246.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1903.
Pbioe 6d.
BEFORE
G. H. Reid : “ What! darnce with you 1
I wouldn’t associate with the likes
of you! ”
“I was not prepared for the apostacy and treachery to
their vital principle, shown hy a majority of the members
of the Labor party of Australia. I wish to say this to the
Labor members of the late Parliament, and the Labor
members of the. next Parliament, that if I could win a
thousand offices by abandoning my feeling of bitter hos-
tility and contempt for their unfaithfulness to their
principles, I would not do it.”-
Mr. Reid at Paddington.
AND AFTER TAKING A GENERAL ELECTION
G.H.R.: “ISN’T IT MY TURN FOR A DARNCE NOW?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
" Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkoh, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By fending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ive
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Made and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions i under winch
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, 32 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo hews Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kom.—Brewer and Co., 33 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
Tjfc^^xxllieZztfi.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1003.
To the Federal Labor Party.
Thb recent Federal ejections make it urgently
necessary that the Federal Labor party should
reconsider its position. The old situation has
become anomalous, and it will soon become
untenable. So far, the Labor party in the Aus-
tralian Parliament has occupied the same position
as the corresponding party does in the N.S.W.
State Legislature ; and that pos tion, if the
N.S.W, case is any criterion, is one which is
almost certain to end badly. The party has
professed to hold itself aloof from the most urgent
question of the day—the fiscal question—and to
have no opinion, as a party, on the matter where
a strong opinion is most wanted. It was supposed
to be ready to vote either for helping or ruining
Australian industries if it got its price—said price
to be paid in political concessions. It was
understood that it wasn’t looking for office itself,
but was to be a mere appendage, on certain con-
ditions, of one or other of the two remaining par-
ties, to both of which it was more or less hostile.
It was never to be the dog—only the tail. This
was commonly recognised as its position, and
while it was a weak party the position was under-
standable. But now it ranks second among the
three factions which make up the Australian Par-
liament, and next election will probably place it
first. It can’t be the tail and thus shirk its
responsibilities much longer; it must look for-
ward to being the whole dog, or at least most of
the dog. It is impossible that the biggest party
in Parliament—as the Labor party promises soon
to be—can always profess to have no opinion upon
the most urgent of political questions, to have
no financial policy, to be in no way responsible
whether the finances go well or ill, or whether the
official departments are administered this way or
that. It will have to take up the White Man’s
Burden—the whole of it.
* # * *
The Labor party is now a good half of the
crowd which keeps Premier Deakin in office.
Therefore it should demand half the Ministerial
portfolios. It should take half the responsibility
of administration, and half the blame of failure,
when there is failure—and half the salary. It
should show that its leaders can administer depart-
ments,'and draft Bills, and lead the House, and
encounter financial emergencies, as well as any
John Forrest or Pumpkin Smith or other incon-
siderable character. Out of respect for itself and
for the people who sent it into Parliament it
should do this. ,As things are, two armies
do the regular fighting and a third reserves to
itself the right to fire on either of the others.
This may be profitable for a time, but it isn’t
war This triangular attitude has been tried in
NSW, and after temporary success it promises
to’ end in disgrace. The N.S.W. Labor party
supported Reid and Lyne and See in return for
valuable concessions; that is to say, because
thev gave it those concessions it allowed them to
ruinously botch the finances and make the
State a disgrace and a mockery. If it had
definitely joined one side, and insisted on its
full share of the portfolios, it might have taken
the concessions instead of having them granted
to it, and it wouldn’t have needed to connive at
disgraceful public frauds as the price of them. It
might have kept the Government straight, and
given the country honesty, solvency and pro-
sperity in return for concessions. Then the State
would be grateful to it, and Labor in N.S. VV.
politics wOuld be a power and something to be
respected. Just now it is so little respected that
it will probably, unless it reforms, meet with
something not far short of extinction at next State
elections.
a C
The view The Bulletin takes in thismitter
can be best understood by comparing the relative
situations of N.S.W. and Maoriland. The two
States commenced their Parliamentary Labor
movement about the same time, and under very
similar circumstances—also under very bad cir-
cumstances, though those of Maoriland were the
worse of the two. But the Maoriland Labor
Sarty didn’t decide to hang fire halfway between
Jjssell and the Ballance-Seddon combination.
It merged itself in the Liberal party, with the
result that the Government became a Labor
Government, and, for the best part of 13 years, it
has remained so. The Labor element had the
courage to provide itself with fiscal principles and
a financial policy. It took the responsibility when
things went wrong. It took, personally, the job
of putting things right. It proved to the world
that a Labor Government can also be a perfectly
safe Government. It proved, by administering
the State departments and running the State
finances, that it had as much political intelligence
as the best of its opponents. And when it wants
reform it enacts it; there is no necessity for
buying each reform by winking at some new
swindle or conniving at some old sin—by keeping
this incapable in office or that “drunk” in
authority. It doesn’t require to purchase con-
cessions for its own class by allowing the whole
State to be swindled ; under the steadying influ-
ence of responsibility it legislates, and legislates
well, for all classes, and therefore the scoff about
“class legislation ” is hardly ever heard now. The
results are, that it has got far more concessions
than the N.S.W. party has done. Also, it has
collected official salaries for many years. Yet,
while Maoriland is many miles ahead of N.S.W.
in democratic legislation, its doings never fill the
outside world with the alarm that the much less pro-
gressive N.S.W. Labor party does, mainly because
it doesn’t present the alarming spectacle of power
without responsibility. All the Maoriland Demo-
crats have lost in doing this is the satisfaction of
calling themselves a Labor party, and that sacri-
fice is more of a gai r ' h m a h'SS.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Democrats adopted, instead, the
policy of aloofness and irresponsibility. The
idea worked reasonably well for a while, but
a dry-rotting process was inevitable, and it is now
so far advanced that the whole system is tottering.
For a long time the nominal Government has
very seldom had much real power of its own,
therefore politics have degenerated into a scram-
ble of tenth-rate men —the sort of men who are
content to accept office on such terms. There
has been no man of anything like the calibre of
Richard Seddon, George Turner or C. C.
Kingston in N.S.W. State politics for many
years. There isn’t one who seems to stand
on the same level with Browne of Queensland,
with Trenwith, or Isaacs —there is hardly even a
Propsting or an Allan M‘Lean. The Labor
party holds the balance and makes or unmakes
Ministries—that is to say, it has the power of
choosing between two incapables. Meanwhile it
has never been in office ; it has never learned how
to administer public affairs; it has no financial
policy; it hardly even attempts to draft a Bill.
Its business consists in demanding concessions
which often cost money, and in leaving the
Government to find the money, and on this basis
it finds itself called upon to wink at the dis-
reputable means by which the Government finds
the money. It has done this until the wink has
become a habit. It doesn’t get many concessions,
and it has to wink at some iniquity in return for
each concession. It has grown sleepy because it
hasn’t much responsibility to keep it awake, and
the Government has grown demoralised—partly,
at least, because its soul isn’t its own,
* * * *
The Australian Parliament is young as yet, and
the evils of the triangular system haven’t had
time to develop, but if the system is persisted in
they will develop. The object of the Federal
Labor party should be to coalesce with the
Ministerialists, and to replace such men as
Forrest and Fysh with rnen of the stamp of
Watson, Trenwith and Kingston. The com-
bination would force the Tory element out of the
Ministry, and make the Ministerial party more
democratic than it has ever yet been. _ It would
probably make it so democratic that it would be
all a Labor party, only without the name, and the
name is better dropped in any case. It would
relieve the Ministry of its present necessity to
take in weak Tories —a necessity arising out
of the fact that strong Democrats remain
aloof, posing as a third party, which is in
Parliament yet not wholly of it. It would enable
Labor men to get Ministerial experience, and it
would relieve them of the stigma of aiming at
power without accepting its burdens. The pre-
sent system, under which the Labor party
demands old age pensions and such-like expensive
reforms, without having itself to devise the means
of finding the money, is demoralising all round ;
the one party is apt to ask recklessly because it
hasn’t to find the means, and the other party is
apt to finance recklessly because it never knows
what new demand will be sprung upon it, and it
has only the obloquy of imposing the taxes
while someone else gets the credit of securing
the reform. Again, a coalition would force
the Labor party to find a definite financial
?olicy, and no party is complete without one.
t would teach the Labor party to take a wider
interest in legislation, and avert any risk of it
petrifying into a mere class institution which con-
fined itself to questions of pick-and-shovel interest.
It would destroy the Tory fictions about the
dangers of Labor legislation ; the present Federal
Labor party contains men of a high order of
intelligence who are well-fitted to destroy that
ancient bogey by practical demonstration. It
would put an end to the gibe that the Ministry is
a poor-spirited combination holding office on
sufferance, and the Labor party a sordid combina-
tion selling its support for a consideration.
* * * *
Already, though things have so far gone pretty
smoothly, the impracticability of the present
system has shown itself. If there had been a
coalition Government a few months ago, the votes
of the Labor Ministers would have made it certain
that the clause bringing railway employees within
the scope of the Arbitration Bill would not have
been excised from that unlucky measure. But
because there were no Labor Ministers, the
Cabinet was filled up with ancient Tories like
Forrest and Fysh, and because of that element
in the Cabinet, the clause was excised. The Labor
party had no redress against the Tory Forrest
except by selling itself bodily to the Tory nigj- -
a- vocate, Reid. Counting the strong Democratic
element in the Protectionist party, and tne
wholly Democratic element in the Labor party,
it was a House with a powerful Democratic
majority. Yet by reason of the foolish triangular
system the strongest Democratic element m it
was reduced to considering whether it woulan
sell itself to a Tory leader, in order to pumsli
the partially-Democratic leader who had gone
back on it. Under the Maoriland system the
original Arbitration Bill would simply have been
carried; but the balance of power, as held
by the Australian Labor party, though a
powerful element for destruction, isn t good
for constructive purposes. And this sort or
trouble will arise again and again, it the
present system continues —it will keep rising till
the best men quit the Cabinet. To a man like
Turner, with Watson and Trenwith as col-
leagues, the drafting of a progressive policy would
be easy. The same Turner, with Forrest and
Fysh as colleagues to harass him by giving a lory
bias to the Cabinet, and Watson as an irrespon-
sible outside boss ready to give him notice to quit
because of that bias, will one day find the position
intolerable. It has already become intolerable to
Kingston. It is the sort of position that, some
day or other, will become intolerable to every
man who is worth retaining, and the control of
Federal politics will drift into the hands of supple
inferior men who can stand any sort of position
for a salary. And by the time that end is
achieved, J. C. Watson, who might have learned,
in office, to be one of the best Ministers Australia
ever had, will probably have wilted down into
another tired M'Gowen. There are two ways of
managing an elective monarchy. One is to make
the best man king and let him run the show. The
other is to have any inferior sort of man as king,
and let the best man yell outside the palace and
threaten, if the king doesn’t do the right thing, to
destroy him when he comes out, and make a worse
man king in his stead. Also there are two ways
of being a great novelist. One is for Dickens to
write “David Copperfield” himself. The other
is for Dickens to give Kenneth Mackay the
job of writing it, and compel him to be a literary
genius by the threat that, if he isn’t one, the job
will be taken from him and given to John
Haynes, of Sydney. In each of these instances
the man who stands by represents the Labor
party, and it is, on the whole, a very close resem-
blance.
* * * *
For all which (and other) reasons The Bulletin
reckons that the Australian Labor party should
aim at a coalition ; should widen its policy so far
as to enable it to absorb all the democratic
elements of the Government party ; should insist
on supplying half the Cabinet, to the exclusion of
the worst Tories now in office ; and should aim at
being the dog—not merely the tail. Then the
degrading spectacle of Geokge Reid coming
round to buy the party will be seen no longer. It
will cease to be for sale.
The Intolerable Press Situation.
When Australian Democrats have recovered from
the blast of Foreign-trade shrieks with which the
last fortnight has been filled, it is up to them to
sit down and quietly consider how the Australian
press situation affects them. In every State that
situation has a character of its own ; and nowhere
is the character good. In N.S. W. and Victoria it
is the worst. Queensland feels the want of a
democratic, national daily least of all. For one
thing, the Worker covers much ground there;
the platform influence of the Laborites and other
Democrats is greater than it is anywhere else;
and the provincial press is, on the whole, more
virile, independent, and powerful. South Aus-
tralia’s position is not so good as Queensland’s, but
it is better than that of Victoria or New South
Wales. In the Advehtisek it has an Opportunist
journal with Liberal tendencies. Bonython’s
paper would like to go on the straight, democratic
path ; but its boss is in politics, and is mixed up
with a dozen local institutions, and isin “society,”
and wants to make enough money to buy an old
English estate; and so the democratic path is
often too hard and too narrow. The Advertiser
won’t fight; it is desperately afraid of making
enemies; and so it lets things slide. Thus, though
it is a professed Protectionist, it allows Freetraders
like Glynn and Poynton, not to mention Speaker
Holder, to get places in the Reps, without a
challenge. If it did fight, the chances are that it
would do it very much as the Melbourne Age
does, though it is not easy to imagine the Daily
Bonython being quite as unscrupulous as the
Daily Syme. What Syme is it is hard to say.
He is a, rich man, and his friends are mostly rich
men, and he doesn’t want either his own or his
friends’ wealth affected. Yet he was a Liberal,
and he wants to seem a Liberal still; so he puts in
an antidote with every dose of poison now, and
neutralises its effect. Bonython really gets
much the same result in another way; but
he lets the people do the mixing. Syme
also has ambitions. Bonython’s ambitions
are personal; Syme lives through his paper and
hungers to see it victorious. And so, even
though his dose does nothing either way, he
fights to make the people take it, and sticks at
little to gain his end. He makes a thousand
enemies where the Adelaide man makes one ; but,
on the other hand, he is feared, and the other
isn’t. So dissimilar, they are yet. almost equally
unsatisfactory from the Democratic and National
view point.
• * • •
Sydney’s position is different again. Adelaide
won’t fight at all, and Melbourne won’t fight fair ;
but Sydney fights on the wrong side. In its daily
press Australian Nationalism has practically no
expression. Herald and Telegraph are both tied
to the Foreign-trader’s wheel, and the Evening
News hangs on behind. The situation is worse
now, in fact, than ever it was before. Until lately
only the Telegraph fought with both hands and
feet, determined to get victory for its side any-
how. The Herald wanted the same victory,
but “Old John Fairfax” had left it some
scruples and some clean traditions, and “Mister
James” kept them alive. Unfortunately, the
drought or something killed them ; anyway, they
are no longer in use, and to-day the paper which
once was proud of sitting in the place of judge,
descends to the tricks, the perversions, the twists
of the most disreputable, beer-fed, and beer-fee’d
Eolice-court advocate. And by plundering the
tate to have these city papers poured into the
country at little or no expense to the proprietors,
these “great” metropolitan journals have just
about strangled the provincial papers, and made
almost the whole of them poor, anaemic little
things, with a soul in keeping with their bodies,
and with influence in keeping with both.
Every now and then when a harder pinch than
usual is felt, there is an isolated movement to “do
something.” Occasionally something is actually
attempted. Adelaide, Sydney, and Melbourne,
in that order, have lately had new daily paper
prospectuses put before them. In Melbourne,
one new paper has, in fact, materialised j and
another is talked of. But with no daily press to
show the public how badly the new organs are
needed, the progress is appallingly slow. Meet-
ings may be held, but, at best, only a handful of
men can be got to attend ; and the existing papers
will either not report the proceedings at all or
simply misreport and ridicule them. The Mel-
bourne papers do the former ; the Sydney papers
have done the latter. For new papers to take the
Fat Man’s side money can still be got; enough
was got in Brisbane, the smallest of the Eastern
State capitals, to lately put the Daily Mail on
its feet. But for a paper which will take the
democratic side the capitalist seems to have
no funds; and if he had, he would not be
warmly welcomed, because of. the fear that,
before long, he would become the same
as the present proprietors who started on the
same side. If, however, the capitalist is not to be
encouraged to go into the business, co-operation is
the onty alternative. The Labor unions ought,
even of themselves, to be quite able to supply the
funds. They have now—in N.S.W., anyhow—
no need to build up large strike funds ; legislation
is doing effectively what the strike used to do
ineffectively. Without any undue strain, then,
they ought to be able to supply even the whole of
the necessary capital. But the movement must
not be confined to any one State. The newspaper
must be a better newspaper than those which now
mislead the people ; and to be that it
must share the cost of production with
others. It must have a cable service ; and
no one paper can afford a cable service. If
a Sydney paper attempted to supply one,
it would, compared with its local competi-
tors, carry a handicap of £20,000 or £25,000
a year; for if the present Australian cable
service costs £25,000 a year, none of the Sydney
papers pays more than £3OOO a year of the
total. The same with other services, literary and
otherwise. It may look easier to establish one
paper than six ; but it will be a great deal easier
to keep six papers alive than one, and when this
is realised it ought to be a good deal easier to get
capital than it has been so far.
• * * *
For The Bulletin’s part, it would be better
pleased to see a crop of papers that would not be
bound exclusively to the Labor party. The
Labor party will not concern itself, as a party,
with more than a comparatively few things, and a
daily paper must concern itself with almost every-
thing. But there is no very good reason why the
Labor organisations should require exclusive
possession of a paper. In fact, the paper that
goes out with the brand of “Labor paper” upon
it is not so likely to make converts to Laborism
as the paper which, while advocating all or most
of the things which theLaborite requires, has views
upon other things—views for which others besides
Laborites will read it. Even, indeed, if it did
not advocate all that they seek in its leading
columns, it would be an enormous gain if it would
report them fairly when they speak. The
situation, then, is that the Democrats and
Nationalists of Australia have practically no
daily press, and they remain handicapped
and helpless because no one section is
strong enough to establish a press of its
own. And, so far, each section has been too
exacting to think of working with the other
sections; it has wanted its press to speak for it
and nobody else ; and the result is that, demand-
ing all, it gets nothing. It is time for Democrats
to be less exacting ; to dwell less upon their small
differences and more upon the large principles
they have in common ; and they will find that of
the latter they have quite enough on which to
build a successful paper in each State. Co-
operation among the democratic sections in each
State, and co-operation among the Democrats of
all the States, seems the only way out of a posi-
tion which all Democrats must feel has become
intolerable.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Trenwith, the Slayer of Symeism.
Symeism in Victoria is dead. It may resurrect if
Syme mends his ways, but at present it is very dead.
The power of the Age, which was sufficient to make
and unmake Ministries, to foist on the people non-
entities and crush outbrave independent men, has
been shattered. David Syme, glorying in all the
strength of his political machine paper, started
out to put down William Arthur Trenwith,
who, as Minister for Railways in the second
Turner Government, resisted the claims upon
the taxpayers’ money for land taken for the
construction of the Warburton railway line.
Several times it looked as if Syme had accomplished
his work. He taunted and aggravated Trenwith
to such an extent that he made certain indis-
creet remarks about several of Syme’s em-
ployees, one of whom overwhelmed him with
law costs in defence of a slander action.
The final struggle between Syme and Trenwith
came over the Victorian Senate election. Tren-
with, knowing the odds against him, resigned his
safe seat in the Legislative Assembly, and came
out for the Senate. The Age put forth all its
strength to crush him. It declined to allow him
to advertise his meetings in its columns, and
totally ignored his existence as a candidate.
Trenwith’s courage, character and ability
appealed to the electors, and they put
him at the top of the poll with over 100,000
votes to his credit. So to-day Symeism
lies badly smashed, while Trenwith makes a
triumphal entry into the Federal Parliament.
Trenwith’s fight against Symeism brought out
all the best characteristics of the man. All his
life he has been doing battle against heavy
odds, surmounting disadvantages and difficulties.
Character is the wage paid by Nature to man for
the labor of overcoming difficulties, and in this
respect Trenwith has been handsomely rewarded.
He has been 35 years in Victorian politics, and no
other man in the community has a straighter
record, and no other man, except George I urner,
could have won 100,000 votes. Trenwith’s life is
an interesting study. He was born of a boot-
making father and a book-loving mother at
Launceston, Tasmania, in 1847. At the age ot
seven he was learning his father’s trade and
feeling the influence of his mother’s books, which
filled two large boot trunks. He never attended
school in the ordinary sense. His mother had been
ateacher, and all helearned hegotfromherat home.
She died while he was still a child, and his father
married again. Young Trenwith was unable to
get along with his stepmother, and at 13 years o
age he left his father’s home, taking with him Ins
brother, aged 10. For some time he earned a
living for both At 17 he was elected one ot the
committee of thrr 'old Launceston Working Mmi 3
Club, co-operating with men old enough to be ins
grandfathers. Before he was 21 he married an
came to Victoria. Shortly afterwards he became
a member of the National Reform
those days, led by Graham Berry and 1
Lalor. This league had for its object the reto
of the Leg. Council, and Trenwith was appointed
lecturer and organiser. Soon afterwards he \


selected to organise the workers in the boot
trade. His success frightened the employers,
who determined to suppress him. They were
no more successful than Syme has been. In
one of the posters issued by Teenwith he
gave a list of the men who were working for
less than union rates, and referred to them as
“ scabs,” defining a “ scab ” as a man who was to
his trade what a traitor was to his country. The
employers put up some of the men to go for Tren-
WiTH for criminal libel, and the case was for two
years before the courts. At last a jury was found
to convict. The verdict, however, was upset on a
number of legal points. In time Teenwith be-
came president of the Trades Hall Council and in
1889 he entered Parliament, where he was regarded
as a sort of monster. Gradually he lived this
down, and when he went into the Senate fight
carried with him the assistance and good wishes
of every member of the House. In Parliament he
had only just overcome the prejudices against him
when he was blinded by cataract. He now has
the use of one eye only. It was while suffering
this affliction that he put up such a sterling fight
for Protection during the tariff debate. Much
discussion and many conferences have made
Teenwith remarkably ready. As a debater
he is without equal in Victorian politics. His
great strength, however, is also his weakness.
The consciousness of his powers makes him disin-
clined to prepare himself for great efforts. He is
inclined to rely upon his impromptu thoughts.
He is somewhat given to mental laziness. It is
sometimes said that Teenwith has modified his
views, but the fact is that the other fellow has
modified his views so that they now accord more
closely with Trenwith’s.
+
No Truck with the Labor Party.
The Piebald-Australian Foreign-trader who has
been talking about “great successes” which he
knows he hasn’t achieved, is already suggesting
that the Labor party is not bound to the Minis-
terialists. And that is true enough. All that
binds them is that they think the same way upon
many things. But the Foreign-trader, knowing
his George Reid, knows that if all that
stands between Reid and a union with the
Laborites is a difference of opinion, it is 400
small an obstacle to trouble about. Geoege
Reid’s elasticity isn’t everything, though ;
apart from the fact that Reidites opposed the
Labor party in every possible constituency, and
that that isn’t the sort of thing to suggest friend-
ship, there are other things in the way. George
Reid is not the whole party. Men like Bruce
Smith, Simon Feaser, Gould, J. T. Walker,
William Knox (who left the Ministerial party
because it combined with the Labor party), Skene
(ditto), Glynn, and Braddon have to be reckoned
with. The Tory members of Reid’s party when
he.was State Premier didn’t worry over his Labor
alliance; they knew that mostly he was only pre-
tending to satisfy the Laborites, and, anyhow, they
had the Legislative Council to throw out anything
that might accidentally get through the other
House. Now Reid can’t play the pretender any
more. He would have to do things for the
future; and that would not suit the Tory section
of his party. And the section that isn’t quite so
Tory is pledged to alter the tariff, while the Labor
party is tired of the tariff, and wants to get on
with social legislation. Union between these two
is, therefore, just as impracticable. Reid, there-
fore, has no present hope. He said he wouldn’t
have any truck with the Labor party ; he said he
couldn’t conceal his loathing and contempt for it,
and not for a thousand Premierships would he
touch the Unclean Thing; and Australia took
him at his word and gave him followers that
make any trucking very difficult.
♦
The Consumptive’s Christmas.
As Australia plunges into the hot and enervating
summer, all who can afford to do so seek in Tas-
mania, on the tablelands, or at seaside resorts
some relief from the sun. Especially do the
politicians shut up their talking shops and go in
search of coolness, and it is quite safe to say that
not one prominent Parliament man, in his retreat
in Tasmania or on the mountains, gives a thought
to that particularly helpless section of the people —
the consumptive poor—whom he has left behind
to gallop to death in the stifling heat; for, if there
were thought, there surely would be action. The
consumptive poor are a large class in Australia,
for the continent has long been a dumping ground
for the phthisical of other nations, and the moist
coast climate favors the growth of the disease
under conditions of poor food and overcrowding.
We now not only import consumptives, but pro-
duce them locally; and whilst most other
civilised nations are making great efforts
to cope with the White Plague, Australia
does practically nothing. In N.S.W. for
example, there has been founded one small sana-
torium at Wentworth Falls, which does excellent
work for half-a-score or so patients, and one small
hospital at Thirlmere, which, whilst not so good,
is still fairly good. Together they can touch but
the narrowest fringe of the evil. The great mass
of consumptives totter on to death in their own
homes, or are herded together at the Liverpool
Tubercle Farm, in an old mill building so thickly
crowded with patients that the air in the wards is
a high-grade culture of tubercle bacillus. A
lethal chamber would be kinder and not less sure
than this “hospital.” N.S.W. conditions in
regard to the consumptive are, by the existence of
this place, made a little more openly scandalous
than in the other States, but throughout Australia
the problem of phthisis is just as effectively
neglected—perhaps a little more dangerously, for
if the consumptive is to be allowed to die, it is
better, in the public interest, that he should die
quickly on a tubercle farm than slowly in the slums,
spreading his disease as he dies. But with the
coming of the summer, which makes things so much
harder for the consumptive, at a time when, as a
Christian people, we are supposed to be peculiarly
softened in heart and eminently inclined to show
good-will to our fellow man, cannot there be found
in any Australian State one Cabinet Minister bold
enough to insist on immediate action in this
matter? Something could be done in a week or
two without great expense. The military might
be requisitioned for tents to accommodate 100 or
200 patients on some high upland ; or the railway
department for worn out railway carriages which
could be converted into little one-patient rooms.
There is no time, and no absolute need, for an
extensive hospital ; a tent settlement would serve
purposes of cure better than the finest stone or
brick building ; and tents could be set up, drains
cut, and a commissariat arranged in a week. No
better work could keep a public man from his
holiday.
*
The Referendum.
Now that it is certain that N.S.W. has voted by a
huge majority for cutting down the Legislative
Assembly to 90 members, those politicians who
faked the Referendum should sit down and view
themselves very seriously. On the evidence it is
more than probable that the electors would gladly
have voted for a reduction to 80 members, or even
to 70, if they had been allowed to express them-
selves ; and the politicians who deliberately stifled
the voice of the people by refusing them the chance
to vote for any smaller number than 90 may
consider that the people have a very solid
grievance against them—a grievance about which
the people will relieve their feelings at next
election. The N.S.W. Labor party was against any
reduction, and it was largely responsible for
limiting the Referendum to prevent the people
giving full expression to their opinions on the
subject ; which, considering that the Referendum
is one of the sacred principles of the democratic
creed, was an especially disastrous move on its
part. The result goes to show how very far the
N.S.W. Labor party, in its present sleepy and
degenerate condition, has got out of touch with
the people, and should be a warning to it to get
back with all speed to the purer democracy of its
early days. Probably, if the people hadn’t been
muzzled—if they had been allowed to vote freely
on the question of the reduction of the over-
grown State Legislature—they would have
voted for a further cutting down by the
abolition of the useless Legislative Council, and
the fact that they were muzzled on this question
is another serious grievance. So far as the pre-
sent Referendum has gone, it tends to show that
the policy of trusting the people is a safe policy.
Probably if a vote were taken on the question of
the abolition of borrowing, it would prove that
therein also the people are a great deal wiser and
more courageous than their rulers. At all events,
the experiment is worth trying. If the Labor
party will not become a definite anti-borrowing
institution, it should at least get back to its old
habit of trusting the people, and get out of its
new habit of being a mere ditto to the disastrous
John See, and should insist on a popular vote upon
the question. That Referendum would be one of
the most interesting episodes of N.S.W. history.
It would dish all the bogus “reformers”
and the vague, non-committal economists. The
Tory daily papers which live on shadowy
diatribes about “ retrenchment” would be brought
up with a jolt against a hard, definite fact. A
clear-cut issue would be brought into State poli-
tics, and it would make John Stinson sit up and
Joey Carruthers fall down insensible. N.S.W.
Labor party, which believes, or used to believe,
in trusting the people, can hardly refuse, if there
remains with it one shred of its ancient principles,
to take up this question.
4
The Jabberwock Goes into Figures.
The Sydney D.T. is still demonstrating at great
length that it and George Reid and Dry-Doggism
won a Great Moral Victory on a recent Wednes-
day. “ The success of the Labor party, ” it says,
“is undeniable; but it is not broad-based success.”
The Barrier and the Darling together have not as
many electors as any one of several metropolitan
districts won by Foreign-traders ; therefore, says
the D.T., as those two districts elected Laborites,
the Laborites have one seat more and the Foreign-
traders one seat less than they are morally entitled
to. On the same principle consider this :
Foreign-trade. Labor.
Seats. Voters. Seats. Voters.
Riverina .. .. 18,131 Newcastle .. 35,633
Macquarie .. 20,459 W. Sydney .. 25,789
Werrima .. .. 21,077
Totals 59,667 61,422
Here two Labor men represent more than three
Foreign-traders; and clearly, according to the
D.T.’s own rule, there is a Foreign-trader too
many, and, therefore, the Foreign-trade success,
even in N.S.W., wasn’t “a broad-based success”
either. The D.T. oughtn’t to make rules which
are liable to fly up and hit it like that. But in
the matter of faking figures the D.T., acting in
the Jabberwock interest, can do a lot better than
even that. With regard to the Senate election it
prints this pretty little table, so beautiful in its
simplicity that it seems a pity to have to brand it
as a hollow fraud and a painted lie: —
Opposition. Ministerial. Labor.
Votes polled.. 1,066,931 778,433 605,501
Seats won 5 4 10
So “Labor polled only a little more than half
of the number of votes polled by the Opposition
and won just double the number of seats.”
This is monstrous, of course. It not only
shows that the Labor party’s isn’t “a broad-
based success,” but it also shows the injustice of
the whole Federal compact, since ‘ ‘ equal repre-
sentation in the Senate has turned things upside
down.” And the Jabberwock points to these
figures and says that figures can’t lie. “You
asked for figures and not fancies,” it says ; “ there
they are.” All that is wrong with them is that
they are stuffed Jabberwock figures, and not the
real thing. There were three Foreign-trade can-
didates in N.S.W. ; and their scores are all
counted. There was only one Labor candidate ;
and his score is counted alone. By this pretty
little trick the Opposition figures, compared with
Labor’s, are multiplied by three. If the
Laborites had put up two more unsuccessful
candidates in N.S.W. they might have added
200,000 votes to their record. On top of that
interesting little exercise in Jabberwock arith-
metic the D.T. reckons in as Oppositionists
the Queensland National Ass candidates who
took great pains to assure that State that,
though the} 7 cordially approved of George Reid’s
colored-labor programme, they were dead against
the alteration of the tariff to which Reid is
pledged so far as he is pledged to anything. Also
the votes cast for the “anti-socialist four” in
Victoria are likewise credited to the Foreign-calico
cause, even though the candidates were in some
cases not Freetraders, and in all cases were dead
against Reid’s policy of re-opening the tariff
question. From bottom to top, then, the D.T.’s
figures are stuffed, and are no more like the real
figures than the D.T. is like an honest, truthful
paper.
4
A Bishop.
This incredible slab of nonsense is taken from a
sermon recently preached by Bishop Langley at
Bendigo :
Socialism in some of its manifestations was clearly and
distinctly marked out as one of the means by which men
were saying, “ I am Christ.” It was a method that was
being adopted by many men, and accepted very largely,
by which they desired to cause a social revolution
throughout the world, in order that some of the anoma-
lies of life that God had allowed could be remedied, and
that all men might be made prosperous, if not by Act of
Parliament, by a social revolution, such as he had referred
to. The State was to bring about this prosperity. Men
were to lose their individuality in the State, which was
to step in and regulate everything, even to the minutest
detail. . . An attempt was being made to graft socialism
upon Christianity, or Christianity upon socialism, but the
two were distinctly antagonistic in character. They
could never be amalgamated, as they were distinctly
opposite in their purposes. Christian socialism could
never come to anything, because when a man became
a Christian he ceased to be a socialist, and when
he became a socialist he ceased to be a Christian. It was
necessary, in order to understand what socialism aimed
at, to go to those who spoke authoritatively on behalf of
socialism. It was regarded by socialists as robbery to
hold property; it was regarded as absolutely wrong and
dishonest for any man to possess anything. In fact, the
condition of Australia, when the aborigines held posses-
sion, was exactly the true ideal of socialism. It was a
perfect socialism, except that the aborigines had kings to
rule over them. Socialism meant the destruction of the
family life, as its aim was to abolish family life, and
introduce a state of things by which marriage should be
a civil contract, binding just as long as the parties agreed
to live together.
How such an incredibly ignorant person came to
be a bishop may be fairly regarded as one of the
world’s mysteries. Still, the most ignorant
bishop is expected to tell the truth, and not
merely be the mouthpiece through which are
circulated the silly lies that his wealthy
parishioner tells him when he invites the gaitered
one to dinner. A course of reading in the way of
political economy might do Bishop Langley a
considerable amount of good, and again it might
not. His idea that a Socialist doesn’t want to
own any property—that he aims at getting rid of
all his assets, and reducing the whole world to a
state in which nobody, not even a Socialist himself,
will possess anything— is such a wild conception
as to suggest that Langley is beyond the benefits
of literature. And his idea that the old Australian
aborigine didn’t own anything, and was therefore
a real Socialist, shows an amazing lack of informa-
tion. The aboriginal owned all the property he
could get —even liis wife was property. He repre-
sented the doctrine of the sacredness of property
to an extent that even the bishop hasn’t reached.
Socialism has crept into the bishop’s existence
and so disrupted the doctrine of property that he
can’t even flog hia “missus.” She doesn’t
belong to him now.
G. H. Reid and the Labor Party.
G. H. Reid has gone on a trip to Westralia for
the purpose, it is rumored, of interviewing the
newly-returned Labor members of that State,
some of whom are reported to have Freetradeish
sympathies. Mr. Reid sees now in a coalition
with the Labor party his best hope of office, and
is preparing to declare himself the only genuine
White Australian Radical friend of the poor man
on the continent. A month ago, or less, he was
saying at Paddington
I am prepared for anything which Mr. Lyne may do,
but I was not prepared for the apostacy and treachery to
their vital principle, shown by a majority of the members
of the Labor party of Australia. I wish to say this to the
Labor members of the late Parliament, and the Labor
members of the next Parliament, that if I could vvin a
thousand offices by abandoning my feeling of bitter hos-
tility and contempt for their unfaithfulness to their
principles, I would not do it.
But all that is over now, and possibly Mr. Reid,
by a Pickwickian process of reasoning, convinces
himself that, whilst he was pledged not to sink his
bitter hostility and contempt to the Labor party
to win a thousand offices, that does not bind him
not to sink those feelings in the pursuit of one
office. More probably Mr. Reid does not reason
about the matter at al\ and simply applies his
familiar top-dog rule to the situation. He ex-
pressed loathing and contempt for the Labor
party before the elections ; that was to try to get to
office. Now, after the elections, he is just as ready
to express affection and reverence for that party ;
again the end, which is office, justifies the means.
And the Labor party is not likely to let any
squeamishness as to Reid’s personal insults, or
a contempt for his time-serving and unprincipled
political methods, stand in the way of using
him if that seems expedient. But what
that party has to keep in mind is that the
Reid programme at the general elections was
definitely against the White Australia policy and
the Immigration Restriction law. It could hardly,
therefore, with any possibility of giving to the
transaction the appearance of an honor-
able compact, agree to go now with Reid,
either on its policy—in opposition to
which he fought the elections—or on his own,
which is contrary to the most important plank of
its platform. An honorable arrangement with
the Deakin party is possible ; it would only be a
continuance and a development of relations which
were productive of good in the last Parliament.
Or if, by some strange development, George
Reid should come to friendly terms with Premier
Deakin and form with him a coalition Govern-
ment, the position would not be dismaying to the
Radical cause, for that would prepare the way for
a genuinely democratic Kingston-Watson ad-
ministration. Absolutely the only dangerous
development of an involved political situation
would be the success of Reid’s efforts to “ make
it up with ” the Labox party—the party which a
month ago he could not mention without a shudder
of loathing.
There is a side issue in John Haynes’ humorous
N.S.W. secession movement which would be
worth considering if the secession movement had
anything serious about it. Supposing N.S.W.
did claim a right to leave the Commonwealth, and
supposing the claim were allowed (both of which
ideas are too absurd to be worth considering), it
would be a sadly shorn and diminished N.S.W.
tha,t climbed out. If N.S.W. could, by any pos-
sibility, prove a right to leave the Union, then it
must prove also the right of any part of the State
to leave N.S.W. At present Australia is one
political whole by the will of the majority
of the Australian people. If it can be hqld
that any fragment of Australia has a right
to break off because there is a majority for seces-
sion in that district, it can’t be held that the
seceding, district has a right to drag with it by
compulsion districts that don’t want to secede.
The Barrier, which votes Labor, and a great part
of the Riverina which votes Protection, and
probably part of the North would have to be left
behind when N.S.W. seceded; just as Virginia,
when it quitted the American Union, had to
leave West Virginia behind it. This is an aspect
of the case which doesn’t appear to strike John
Haynes and co. Their idea, apparently, is that
the rest of Australia has no right to dictate to the
N.S.W. minority, but that Sydney has every
right to dictate to the Broken Hill and Riverina
and Monaro minority.
♦
A red-hot Tory gospeller named Rivett asked
a Wodonga Congregational audience, recently, if
Christ would be in favor of a White Australia.
Since Stead, some years ago, set the fashion of
asking what Christ would do under given circum-
stances, the average sky-pilot has mixed Christ’s
name so indiscriminately with politics that a
number of electors begin to think He is a pro-
minent politician like Alf. Deakin. Rivett,
of course, said that if Christ came to Australia
He would be shut out under our present nefarious
laws, which seems to The Bulletin rather an
exaggeration. If Christ went to England nowa-
days He would be told He was an alien and could
only be regarded as a citizen after five years’ resi-
dence, and after paying heavy fees and promis \g
to live permanently in British territory. If He
went to India He would be booted round by every
British jack-in-office and told that He Was quite
unfit to have any share in the political manage-
ment of the country, that being the exclusive
privilege of the British invader. Butiif He came
to Australia the Deakin Government would let
him in cheerfully ; He would only have to pass a
test in some European language and even the
most blasphemous parson would hardly dare to
say that the Omniscient couldn’t do that. Of
course the Argus would denounce Him as a
socialist and Derham would speak severely about
Him, but that is all.
♦
In combating, and for the time being defeating,
the Victorian Government’s education retrench-
ment proposals, Theodore Fink made the best
speech of his life. Starting with the declaration
that Robert Reid was as wrong-headed as usual
when, as Education Minister, he wanted to run
the department on commercial principles (Reip,
like his firm, was a whale on commercial
principles), Fink laid down the axiom that a
nation’s greatest asset was its body of school-
teachers. He showed that Victoria, in giving
free education between the ages of six and 14, was
already more niggardly than many other nations,
and while in England education cost £3 per head,
in Melbourne it was done for £2. Fink was in
dead earnest for once, especially when he threw
the gibe at Kyabram that the proposed economy
meant ‘ ‘ the retrenchment of the intellectual facul-
ties—the starving of the greatest of all our
resources.” “ The saving in school buildings now
means a bigger expenditure on reformatories and
gaols later on,” said Fink, and he concluded a
straight, honest, vigorous denunciation of “that
bastard cry for economy started by the news-
papers of Collins-street,” by a sneer at the spurious
patriotism that put up pillars of gilt while the
State’s children had to go outside its borders to
get a thorough education. The immediate effect
of this declaration w,s that several erstwhile
whole-souled Kyabramites recanted, “I never
thought,” said Field, of Maryborough, “that
reform meant interfering with the education of
the children.” Premier Irvine, realising that his
majority was vanishing, caved in and postponed
his threatened retrenchment—the charging of fees
outside the years 6 to 13—until the country had
spoken on the question. Judging by the awful
odor now proceeding from the dead ’Pootra, the
country may be relied on to speak effectively.
♦
That foul-minded Tory lie about the Petriana
was put into abusive verse by Melbourne Paunch.
Even while the rescued and dried and carefully
fed mariners were on their way home on boai-d a
big, safe mailboat, Paunch, the liar, dropped into
rhymed screams about how they were cruelly and
wilfully drowned by the Australian Government.
A sample:—
The South Australian Laborites couldn’t win the
Leg. Council seat which Sailor Guthrie got out
of in order to race for the Senate ; the vacancy
went to President Moulded of the “ National "
Ass—the Toriest “National” Ass of them all.
Yet in the Senate race the Asses were nowhere.
All the difference lies in the franchise. Compara-
tively speaking, the S.A. Council franchise is
liberal ; but it is streets behind the Federal
one. Another straight tip to Laborites and,
Liberals to pass on as much power as they
possibly can from the State to the Federal’
authority.
A Celebration.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Otago (M.L.) ex-Contingentera’ Club held its first
annual re-union and dinner at Dunedin last month.
Tickets os. Stokes’ mandolin band was in attendance.
This song wasn’t sung :
The Boer we killed is very, very dead ;
The grass is tall and rank above his head.
So we’ll drink unto his bones,
Left behind amid the stones,
And we’ll pass the liquor gaily—the liquor rich
and red.
We will bang the wild decanter on his tomb,
His ghost will take it for the Crack of Doom.
He is but a framework now,
And the coolie and the Chow
Have come to take his country while he slumbers
in the gloom.
And we’ll light the fragrant threepenny cigar
(He has gone where things like that no longer are);
O, we sent back his beard
As a trophy wild and weird
(At least the papers said so) to our native land afar.
If you go and hunt with care amid the loam
You may chance to find the ashes of his home ;
It made a cheerful blaze,
In those good old fighting days,
’Twas a pleasant sort of circus and a giddy hippo-
drome.
His land, perhaps, is something of a wieck,
It’s owned by Aaron and Melchisedeok ;
And they state that you and I
Need not trouble to apply
For the yellow man is coming and such trash as
we may trek.
Still we whirl the bottle gaily in the air,
And the beer of celebration froth with care,
And we blow the glad cigar.
And we twang the mad guitar,
For we saved the Rand for Moses, and we aren't
wanted there 1
J.E.
In vain they stretch beseeching- hands,
“ What is your Law to Life ?” they cry.
Australia answers : “ Life is naught,
We care not if ye live or die,
For this, thank ye, your colored skins,
We answer if ye ask us why.”
The Law : “ Yes, let them die.”
Premier Deakin : “Or else apply.”
Labor Party : “A-a-men.”
These aliens at the gates of death
Have seen us smirch the British name ;
They curse us till their dying breath,
We put this Christian land to shame.
Through all the world the story flies,
Our “ White Australia’s” evil fame.
Our Law : “ They cannot land.”
Federal Parliament : “ Upon our strand.”
Labor Party : “ A-a-men.”
This last verse isn’t by Paunch :—
The black and unimperilled crew
Were free to land—let Truth explain—
Protected by their bosses, who
Were under legal contract to
Deport their niggers back again.
A crafty statement of the case
The Freetrade journals roared in vain
Premier Deakin : That story of the crew’s distress—
The Public: Invented by the Tory press—
Labor Bbrty : Was just a lie, and nothing less.
All Together: A-d-men.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Beauty and the Beast.”
Her Majesty’s “ Monsieur Beaucaire.”
Lyceum .... “ Great World of London.”
Criterion “ Why Woman Sins ! ”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Queen’s Hall Mel. B. Spurr.
Palace.. “ Mama’s New Husband.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s Theatre. .. “ A Midsummer Night’s Dream."
Her Majesty’s “A Country Girl.”
Bijou “ Little Red Riding Hood.”
Theatre Royal “A Desperate Game.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Circus Ground (below I
Princes Bridge) j Wlrth BroB-
-
It is a weakness of poor humanity to rush
in crowds to be there when the early doors open,
so to speak, and gape upon the mimic loves and
sham-lights of stage princes and other titled per-
sons, who are mostly strong and beautiful, and
mentally gifted* or giftedly wicked. “ Monsieur
Beaucaire ” was staged for the first time in Sydney
last week, and filled Her Majesty’s Theatre
up to the police regulation limit. It is a romantic
story of a French prince, one of the Orleans
line, running loose in high society in Bath,
an English town where people of quality
went to drink liver water. This prince is
introduced in the play at the age of 33
years, and spilin’ for a fight with some of the
best blood and keenest blades in England. As a
matter of fact, hardly any of the Orleans line
could fight worth a frog’s leg (there were three
families in the Orleans business, and the best man
among them was a woman), but that’s a trifle to a
romance-maker. Prince Louis Philippe, alias
Monsieur Beaucaire, is whimsical, brilliant, a
gamester, an expert duellist, but, above all, the
fervent lover of Lady Mary Carlyle, the toast of
Bath. There is considerable grovel in the drama to
“men of parts,” “ ladiesof quality,” and to dukes,
but chiefly because it is a love story, told with a
sparkle of real passion, it justifies its hour on the
stage and the attention with which it holds its
audience. For the rest it is a well-painted picture,
out of the past of a hollow society, smooth-tongued,
insincere, affected, and very graceful in its
management of the artifices that conceal
artificiality. The prince with the butterfly surface
attributes has the heart of a volcanic fire when he
confesses his love. But on the stage they keep their
state and there is scarce any love-making Persons
of lesser quality get “ engaged,” and purr in each
other’s faces, but these two will “ contract an
alliance.” The stupidity of all high and mighty
Bathers in not penetrating the disguise of the
Hyperion is no compliment to their intellects,
but no one will yap at such trifles save for yap-
ping’s sake. The part of Lady Mary Carlyle
gives Miss Maud Jeffries little show but to look
dazzling. Julius Knight accomplishes Monsieur
Beaucaire, the paragon prince, as naturally as
such an ideal could be fulfilled. Messrs. Warbur-
ton, Wontner, Turner, and Stirling are good fits
in their respective roles of Lord Winterset, Major
Molyneux, Beau Nash, and Squire liakel. After
Miss Jeffries, there is no woman’s part worth
mentioning.
** * *
The Xmas Pantomime at Sydney Royal
this year is, in some respects, of higher quality
than usual. The book—by a well-known Mel-
bourne journalist, Mr. “Monty” Grover—is
smart, the local gags are humorous, and one or
two patter songs are decidedly clever. Moreover,
there is a fresh Australian note in it. The average
Pantomime book, written by some superannuated
Poverty-Pointer, is full of fool-politics ; this year
at the Royal the allusions are mostly national
and White Australian—never infected with dull
Tory stupidity. Where “ The Sleeping Beauty ”
is most open to criticism is in the color arrange-
ments of its scenes, which are often garish, and in
one instance —the Hall of Pillars—the tones
audibly swear at one another. Some of the effects
are, however, mightily ingenious, the Bush Fire,
the Snow Storm and the opening Cloudland scene
for examples, and there is no lack of variety;
quite a score of different stage pictures are shown
in the course of three acts.
* * * *
To tell a thin, but bright and coherent
story, the management has gathered: together
a great crowd of performers, among whom
the youngsters shine out most conspicuously.
The Little D’Artos (M‘Leans) dance and
fence right up to the glowing promise of
their bright red hair ; Eileen Boyd (whose voice
develops into a strong, clear alto) as a singer, and
little Cora Hamilton as a dancer, equal in grace
and charm any of the adult performers. Some of
the adults are allowed less scope than they
deserve; Fred Leslie, for example, is an excep-
tionally clever dancer, but gets no opportunity of
fanning the air with his legs. Miss May Beatty,
“principal boy,” might also be given a little
more work, with advantage to the piece;
as it is, she makes a vivacious feature,
and is well mated with Miss Olive Lenton, who
as “ principal girl ” acts and sings and dances
brightly. With more experience Miss Lenton
will develop into a fine soubrette. Another
attractive circumstance is the beauteous Miss
Elsie Moore in a glad smile and pink fleshings,
as a highly ornamental Fairy Boy. Opening
night, “Beauty and the Beast” did not end
until close on midnight, and some severe pruning
will be needed to bring it within time, and also to
allow a little more scope for the principals.
There’s a lot of unused talent among the principals.
And the young lady who plays the silent part of
St. George of England and names herself on the
programme “Miss Bubba Hammon’' —has she not
a powerful gift of humor which might be given a
chance to display itself? Only a lady with a
powerful gift of some kind could call herself
Bubba, and Hammon.
** * *
The latest development of melodrama
demands that the hero should be falsely accused
of several distinct crimes, should emerge from one
trouble only to drop into another, be pursued
through four acts and several gaols, and be
informed offhandedly in the last scene of the last
act that his character has been cleared, but
not necessarily offered any cash compensation.
The old-fashioned notion of falsely accusing him
of one murder only, and rescuing him at the foot
of the gallows by a pardon, granted by the
nearest policeman on the hurried testimony
of the comic relief man who keeps the
pie stall, is out of date. There must be
crimes, accusations, releases, and vindications in
wholesale quantities. “The Great World of
London ” supplies this want thoroughly, and
carries an excited audience breathlessly through a
hundred improbabilities to a conclusion wherein
virtue is triumphant and villainy is left with no
resource but to go into politics on the religious
ticket. Of all the scenes, that of the murder on
the express train is the most sensational, and the 1
stage mechanician deserved the applause he got
for its air of reality. As for the human
personages in the play, they are of less
importance than the train, but Miss Ada
Guildford and Robert Inman struggle bravely to
give an air of real life to the procession of
improbabilities, and Lawrence Dunbar makes a
sufficiently blood-curdling villain to satisfy the
most exacting galleryite. “ The Great World of
London ” was more than well received on Satur-
day. and will be continued until further notice.
* * * *
By way of a side-issue, the “Great
World ” is very rough on the alleged prosperity
of England under Freetrade. After enumerating
a long array of characters, who seem to have
hardly a copper among them, it lumps the rest
thus :
Salvation Army Officers, Discharged Prisoners, Male
and Female Tramps, Outcasts, Vagrants, ex-Conviets,
Waifs and Strays, Station Loafers, Newsboys, and
numerous other characters met with in the Great World
of London.
Judging by that list the drama seems to struggle
all through London and hardly meet one person
with the price of a bed about him.
#* * *
Albert Gran’s Conservatorium demon-
strations at Sydney Palace last week were chiefly
remarkable for the good work of two or three
girl-students—that is to say, if Gran’s own efforts
are left out of the count. As a rule, though, the
performers had more brains than voice ; Miss Ger-
trude Lyndon’s, nevertheless, held out almost to
the end of a specially striking impersonation of
Clarice, in “Comedy and Tragedy,” but then
frayed a little at the edges. In “ Pygmalion and
Galatea ” Gran’s own Pygmalion stood out con-
spicuously.
** * *
The American Comedy Co. which Maori-
land manager George Stephenson has brought to
Sydney Palace, is good enough to have deserved a
great deal more preliminary dust. It gives a
clean and clever show, which doesn’t drag for as
much as a moment ; smart dialogue (though not
much of it), clever dancing (very clever, some of
it), and singing at least equal to the ordinary
comedy-company level, while the songs themselves
without the local “tacks” are a good deal above it.
It is all bright—and most of it new, even to the
overture and the music that you hear the end of
as you come back from seeing whether it’s rain-
ing outside or not. Of story you don’t expect
much, and you don’t get it. The piece
is called “Mama’s New Husband”; and when
it is explained that Mommer is the widow
of a very rich plumber ; that she, not to cast
any reflections oh her own age, hasn’t mentioned
the existence of-a 17-year-old daughter, and that
Popper is a gay old boy who has been flirting
with the girl without knowing she is his daughter-
in-law, the story is about exhausted. Chas. J.
Stine leads the co. as the New Husband—a large,
merry comedian ; supporting him are Miss Olive
Evans, the daughter, a soubrette of the utmost
vivacity, to whom falls the largest share of the
acting; and Miss Marshall, the awesome
Mommer, who reaches her climax when, unable to
any longer hide her daughter, she hysterically
admits to her gay husband an “indiscretion,”
sobs “ I have a baby,” and produces the deceased
plumber’s 17-year-old infant. So far as the piece
has any serious intention, it is a whimsical satire
on plays about “the woman with the past.”
Besides these three principal comedians, every-
body else in the cast does one vaudeville turn.
Among the best are the Bicknells, “ Dresden-
China dancers,” whose performance is very dainty
indeed. For another distinguished item the
chorus is responsible—a cinematograph ballet.
The house is darkened ; and on the stage
you have the flicker, the jerks, the darts of light
of the machine; but the “picture” is supplied by
the dancers themselves. Saturday’s audience was
an exceedingly well-pleased audience altogether.
** * *
The Tivoli might have relied upon the
Cirnocs as its chief holiday attraction —its Christ-
mas goose and plum-pudding, in a manner of
speaking—but out of the wealth of the stores
which manager Rickards has gathered in Europe
patrons were promised a song cr two from Mrs.
Sims Reeves, the lady who has taken over the
business of the still lamented English tenor. But
Mrs. Reeves was ill; and the man that went
to hear Maud invited into the garden had
to fill up with a demonstration of how to
get out of handcuffs or prison supposing
Maud’s father should mistake him for a burglar.
The performance doesn’t seem less mystifying on
the second time of seeing. To the previous list of
“turns” has been added one by James Harvey,
who is giving his imitations of John Sheridan
and other royal persons ; while M’Ginty has
opened up a new box of jokes for the special
benefit of the young man who has come down
from the back to get the grass-seeds out of
his constitution. And on top of all these attrac-
tions Mrs. Reeves is liable to appear at any
moment.
** * *
At the end of a warm Boxing Day Sydney
still felt enough curiosity about woman’s sinful-
ness to fill the Criterion with a pack that bulged
out of every door and craned its neck from every
passage. Whether it knew any more after it had
craned its neck is another matter. The young
woman in the case sinned, so far as could be made
out, first a little for love of the man, and then a
lot more for love of the che-ild ; and both that
man and that che-ild have been heard of before.
And of course, as hitherto, the lady got the sym-
pathy of the house. She ate, and wiped her
mouth, and said she had done no wickedness,
just as she did in the days of Solomon,
who had quite as large opportunities of
knowing the sex as even a modern
player or play-writer has. Thus she gets even
with Adam. Ever since the unfortunate incident
in the orchard, the lady has thrown the core of
every apple she has eaten at the man; and the
fallery has admired her for her aim. In Charles
lolloway’s production Miss Gresham is the
modern Eve, and C. R. Stanford the Adam. The
former masquerades as Ida Valette, the latter as
Captain Carlton, R.N. The lady’s is a thankless
part—the usual weary, sighing admissions ; the
usual weary search for the child whom the villain
has got rid of with the help of Charles Holloway,
who doesn’t look that sort of person. Stanford
is a quiet, reserved villain as usual. Miss
Gresham hardly gives the impression that
she “cares for neither man nor devil,” as
the authors make her allege. But that is
the authors’ fault perhaps, for they have
made her an illogical creature, anyway.
Holloway’s own performance is very good. He
plays seldom—this is the first time this season
that he has been seen in the lighter vein, and the
holiday-house enjoyed him better than anything
else in the show. The two young people whose
rough course of love winds in and out of the story
are, as usual, represented by Miss Holloway and
Vivian Edwards, who likewise do well, if not
better; and Miss Irby Marshall, J. P. O’Neill,
Hawthorne and others add to the general
pleasure. All through his season Holloway has
mounted his pieces with a good deal of splendor,
and even more money has been spent on “Why
Woman Sins” than on the others.
#* * #
The name alone of Mel. B. Spurr ought
to be worth not less than £2OO a year to its
owner. For eye arresting affect on a hoarding
it ranks with the Gilead P. Beck of novelist
Besant, or the Philander P. Springbuffer
of a - Victorian journalist. Mel. is the short
for Melancthou in Mr. Spurr’s case, but the
full name does not fit him at all. It conjures up
visions of orthodoxy watching heterodoxy crackle
in the flames. Mr. Mel. B. Spurr, who looks too
good-natured to make anybody crackle, began
his Sydney season at the Queen’s Hall last
Saturday to a crowded audience. The hall
had been transferred into an artistic place
with decorations, and cooled with noiseless electric
fans. Mr. Spurr looks—when he is just himself—
like a self-possessed, keen, professional man. He
is a barrister, and practised for some eight years
before making a profession of what had been
during that time an amusement —society enter-
taining. He lias a whole gallery of different facial
expressions, and canmakehands, feet and shoulders
talk. For two hours on Saturday night he
entertained single-handed, speaking, singing, re-
citing, pianoforte-playing, or mimicking singers,
reciters and speakers. Programme was mostly
humorous, but punctuated lightly with thepathetie
and the histrionic. Mr. Spurr’s audience went
reluctantly into the night, after laughing all over
the octaves. There will be a matinee this (Wednes-
day) afternoon.
** # *
Melbourne’s only panto., the scheme
whereof germinated at the little Gaiety Theatre,
but was transplanted to the Bijou, turns out to be
a lively, well-dressed show with a harlequinade at
the end. “Little Red Riding Hood” introduces
itself as a purely local production in every
particular except the title. The costumes
came from Flinders-street, the author is a
young man who once committed a terrible
Australian melodrama at the neighboring Royal,
the scenery and other marvellous effects
were invented and designed on the premises,
and as no artists were specially engaged in
Europe at enormous expense, the maximum
charge for admission is only 3s. Compared with
two or three bygone pantos, at the same price this
is a comparatively gorgeous affair. At any rate,
the fixings are new and bright, not to say taste-
ful. Also the company in general has a well-
distributed capacity for work. Tom Perman runs
the theatre ; W. Perman manages the stage and
disguises his face in burnt cork ; Miss B. Perman
is the matured child whose grandmother inhabits
a cottage in the bush half way between
Wagga and the new Federal Capital where the
wolves come from ; several younger Permans
appear as boys, beasts and fairies, and the list of
other names on the programme is about a yard
long. They can all dance. Outside of the
successful young ballet, clever legs of both sexes
are numerous, and among the men who paint
their noses red —Harry Shine, Torn Dawson, Box
and Cowan —there seems to be more sense of
humor than one expects to find in professedly
‘ ‘ comic ” scenes. If Melbourne really needs a
pantomime at Xmas, the city may consider its
painful necessities adequately provided for. “ Red
Riding Hood” made a good impression the first
nigidw'ind will improve a lot.
On Saturday next (January 2) Ada Cross-
ley will sing her positively last song to the Mel-
bourne public. Her farewell warble is to happen
at the Exhibition Building, admission one “bob,”
and a shilling extra for “early door.” In con-
sideration of the fact that early door visitors are
expected to arrive some hours in advance of the
evening concert there will be a preliminary organ
recital and a brass band, also refreshments obtain-
able at moderate prices for cash.
* * * *•
Ada Crossley’s songs for her shilling pop
Farewell Concert at Melb. Exhibition Building
are to be chosen by a plebiscite. This is bad
news for poor but frivolous people who are
hoping to hear Ada for the first time on this occa-
sion. At her previous farewell concert, when the
programme was presumably arranged by good old
General Desire, the contralto sang “Nearer, my
God to Thee,” also “O Rest in the Lord.” One
of her encore numbers was the popular “O That
we Two,” which terminates with the word
“God,” and another of the extras was “God be
with You.” General Desire, now that he is too
old to howl on the field of battle, seems to have
become religious.
** * *
The “ Country Girl ” promises to get a
firmer hold of Melbourne than any similar piece
staged at Her Majesty’s since the “Eloradora
times. As a mere musical spectacle constructed
on light opera lines, this is one of the best, and in
its patches and streaks of comedy narrative there
is more than a faint color of truth as well as a
sparkle of humor. Some characters in the
“Country Girl” present a genuine appearance;
moreover, the Williamson people happen to fit
their parts naturally, and all circumstances are
favorable to an effective show. The stolid Ban-
tock, a very unadaptable comedian, is placed to
the greatest possible advantage as a Rajah who
tunefully enunciates every syllable in a clever song.
Miss Ghiloni is equally fortunate in the. cha-
racter of a brown, languorous princess
from Asia, whilst Florence Young imper-
sonates an actress without any trouble to
herself. Rose Musgrove plays a gilt-edged
milliner in a charming way. Geo. Lauri, as a
smart young man from the navy, is an almost
new Lauri .fooling under new conditions.
Reginald Roberts has improved his accent, and
the performance in every other respect seems “ up
to Dick.” This last remark is intended as a
delicate compliment to Dick, whoever he was.
* * #
Bland Holt’s latest achievement at Melb.
Royal is a song and dance drama of British extrac-
tion. The grief and bloodshed probably came
from London, but the scenery, topical allusions,
figures of speech, and democratic trimmings are
as full of Australian sentiment as a local sausage.
Albert Norman professes to be a N.S.W. farmer
of the cockatoo species who migrated to the west
in search of a gold mine. Baker is a boundary-
rider attached to the family ; also Bland Holt
and two volatile ladies from, the Sydney
Tivoli go to the west in order to drive dull
care away. When they get arrested for unlawful
behavior the two tempestuous females prove their
innocence by singing a giddy song in which the
entire police court joins heartily, and then the sad
case of Albert Norman is brought forward. Two
heavy Australian villains have previously inter-
rupted the gaiety of the Commonwealth by mur-
dering Norman’s wife (Harrie Ireland) and her
lunatic brother. The lunatic is an unknown per-
son whose death made no difference, but the
corpse of Miss Ireland gets her surviving relatives
into a lot of trouble. Her little daughter is struck
stone dumb at the sight of it, and her husband is
arrested for the crime. At this point Baker
comes in useful as an interpreter of dumb evi-
dence, and later in the evening he closes the pro-
ceedings by marrying Miss Ross in a bush taber-
nacle. The title of Holt’s amazing drama is “A
Desperate Game.”
iff iff iff iff
The Boxing Night attendance at Mel-
bourne Princess indicated that a revival of “ Mid-
summer Night’s Dream ” was not wanted. It
deserved a full house, but the reward of merit was
not forthcoming. Therefore the beautiful show
will be withdrawn on Friday, and “Twelfth
Night” will come to pass.
iff iff iff iff
Wirth Bros’. Circus came back to the old
spot on Dec. 26th, and camped out in green tents
under a blue and boiling sky, as though that specu-
lative entertainment were a picnic, or an annual
meeting of Latter-day Saints. At times like
Xmas week Wirths’ biggest tent covers a multi-
tude of sinners, not only for the reason that the
Circus is a collection of Unapproachable Novel-
ties (in an advt. way of speaking), but also on
account of its airy environn.ent. The audience
that mopped its brow at the first matinee
had the comfort of thinking it might
have been hotter elsewhere. Anyway, the
moist, inactive public looked several degrees
cooler than the mysterious Howard Bros., and
the flying farewell gymnasts, and Pagel, and the
tigers that walk in heavy winter clothing. Circus
items are mostly feats of honest labor. Miss
Mayazel, the new flexible lady who performs in
mid-air, excites feelings of warm regard, likewise
the dusky hurricane equestrienne, and the French
professor who carries a lion on his shoulders. 1 his
is the same amiable animal that lies down beside
the lamb, and smiles fondly at the hyena, and is
billed as a blessed fulfilment of Scriptural pro-
phecy. The millenium, seemingly, has started to
radiate from W.B.’s performing zoo.
iff iff iff *
At the Atheneeum Hall, a biograph is
earnestly endeavoring to profit by the holiday
occasion, but the Town Hall and the Masonic
were deserted spaces when last heard of.
* - * * *
At the Opera House, the muscular develop-
ments of Vulcana and her brother, Atlas, are
exhibited in various interesting ways. Vulcana
is the most graceful and Sandow-like Amazon who
has ever submitted a bare back to the notice o
the Melbourne public, and her treatment^orj*
ANNUAL BONUSES IN LIFE INSURANCE
ANOTHER WORLD’S RECORD
PUT UP BY
The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York.
In 1903 Mr. Charles H. Booth paid a premium of £l2 Bs. 9d., and received an ANNUAL
DIVIDEND of .£6o—nearly five times the,amount of his premium.
In 1843 Mr. Booth took out a Policy in the Mutual Life Insurance
Company of New York for ; ... • £4OO 0 0
Total Dividends declared to date ... 1152 12 11
Original Policy and total Dividends declared £1552 12 11
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW YORK still issues Policies
with Annual Dividends, Dividends every five years, or with the first Dividend at the end of 10,
15. or 20 years.
On Annual Dividend Policies the Bonuses VEST AT END OF FIRST YEAR, and may
then be drawn in cash or applied to purchase additional insurance.
Full particulars, with Illustrations adapted to present conditions, on application to
J Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
MUTUAL LIFE BUILDING, Martin Place and Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE GREATEST COMPANY IN THE WORLD. ASSETS OVER JE80,000,000.
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny ” for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people, a 1
Rosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in *oungv
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-kiue
rabbits free of any commission or charges. For f urther particular», address—
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited
HEAD OFFICE— NARANDERA
70 PITT ST., SYDNEY or YOUNG.


2001 b. dumbbell with her arms is almost as sur-
prising as Atlas’ talent for twirling the same
awtui toy upon the sole of his foot. Some addi-
tions to the Rickards’ programme on Saturday
night included Clarke and Hamilton. Concern-
ing these long-deferred comedians, a few remarks
can stand over until next week. Remarks are
about the only things that will keep fresh for
eight days under recent weather conditions.
*# # *
In Adelaide, amusements set in with
great severity on the arrival of Christmas. Fitz-
gerald s cn-cus occupies its usual pitch at the Old
Exhibition grounds, and introduces the usual lady
leggier, besides the usual horses. There are also
some quite unusual dogs. The Tivoli, with sliding
roof, keeps fairly cool these evenings, and is doing
well with a variety show, which, with unnecessary
Jlrench-Americanism, it calls “vaudeville.” At
the Royal, the much-travelled Beatrice Esmond
has made her first appearance as the “dearest”
mother of that Little Lord who rose on stepping-
stones of a grocery to higher things. Collet
JJobson and others support the show. Also the
old and crusted “ Messiah ” filled its accustomed
place in the Town Hall on Christmas night, and
concerts open air and other —are everywhere.
The Wild Cat Column.
S. Australian Government climbed down
over the increases in the railway freights, and either cut
them severely or abolished them altogether. So far as
the mines are concerned, they will pay 6d. per ton more
lor ore and ore-products, instead of 9d., and for coal 13s.
oa. per ton as hitherto, instead of the 15s. Id. asked for.
One or two of the weaker mines, which are making no
prone, want a pretext for closing down, and Jenkins
Iscariot got the tip that he was going to be the scape-
goat ; so from under promptly.
The National Bank of Tasmania :
Dividends and Added to Re-
Profits Dividend Tax Reserves serves
May, 1897 ..£4013 5 per cent. =£3991 £22 £24,097
Nov., 1897 .. 4127 5 „ „ „ 3991 136 24,233
May, 1898 .. 4128 5 „ „ „ 3991 137 24,370
m ’2 •• 4516 6 » •> » 3991 523 24,895
May, 1899 .. 4460 5 „ „ „ 3991 469 25,364
Nov. 1899.. 4577 5 „ „ „ 3991 586 25,950
May, 1900 .. 5528 5 „ „ „ 3991 1537 27,487
Nov,, 1900.. 5462 -f® , » >• 39911
l Written off 2000 / 26,958
May, 1901 .. 5052 5 per cent. = 3991 IC6I 28,019
" 5139 s >> » » 3991 H4B 29,167
May, 1902 44/2 5 „ „ „ 3991 481 29,648
Nov-,1902 .. 4479 5 „ „ „ 3991 488 30,136
May, 1903 .. 4908 5 „ „ „ 3991 917 31,053
N0v.,1903.. 4699 5 „ „ „ 3991 708 31,761
The shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of the
half-year amounted to £183,093 (£152,040 capital and
n o reserves ) > and the earnings were equal to
£5 ns. Bd. per cent, per annum on this amount. The
result compares with those of recent terms in this way:
Nov., 1900 ..£6 1 Bp.c. Nov., 1902 .. £4 18 7p c.
May, 1901 .. 512 11 „ May, 1903 .. 5 7 9,.
Nov., 1901 .. 514 2 „ Nov., 1903 .. 5 2 8
May, 1902 4 18 9 „
The -reserves consist of £27,500 reserve fund, and
£4261 undivided profit; an addition of £5OOO has lately
been made to the formal reserve fund. During the 12
l i'i°o" l^ dep °. sits bearin ? interest have increased from
£193,637 to £217,210, while deposits not bearing interest
have fallen from £254,521 to £232,258. Notes and
b, ‘' s ,n circulation have decreased from £134,331 to
On these three items liabilities to the public
have been reduced by £60,022. On the other
side there has been a slight increase in advances, etc.
(from £567,872 to £571,046) ; and these two movements
together have necessitated a reduction in the cash and
"tate securities from £174,639 to £113,719, or £60,920.
Twelve months ago these liquid assets represented 36 per
cent, of the liabilities to the public; they now re-
present only 21J per cent. This i 3 a pretty sudden and
severe drop.
* * *
Sydney D.T. is astonished to find that 1903
iS!? rts I r ? ra Sydney were greatly in excess of those for
1902, and far more than for most years. Australia has
been told so often lately (by the D.T. and others) that its
troubles were all due to the drought, and that when
normal seasons ” returned everything would be all right
again and everybody would be jolly and fat, that it at
length believed the yarn. Now the fact has' to be
admitted that in the aggregate recent years, including
1903, have been above normal, and that the shortage in
the wheat supply has been more than made up bv the
abnormal mineral output and the higher price ruling for
wool. The truth is that the drain for interest is now so
tremendous that Australia is in distress in even a year
that is above the normal in aggregate prosperity.
The National Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. of Australasia (Melbourne)
Oct. Profits. Dividends. Added to Re-
| 393 " £ 4442 15 per cent. = £4500 «s«*ves. jerves.
1895” tnm lo *’ *> 3000 23,920
1896” 9QSR Jo ” >• 3000 £1 23,921
1897” llaa *2 '» ” 3000 23,907
1898” lion f ” ” 3400 “ 23,896
1899” o ” »-2400 23,886
K».: SS I :: ;; Sffi I gfi
190-’” 2407 I ” ” 2400 6 23^897
1903 930 Q ! ” ” 2400 7 23,904
1903.. 2408 8 ~ ~ 2400 8 23,912
At this rate of progression it is possible to state definitely
that in the year 2903 the profit will be £3408. The pain-
ul regularity with which the co. manages to make as
much as it did in the year before and £1 over has previ-
hof!; V „i e ®" notlc u e . d - Hf | w it was managed hasn’t always
een obvious ; this year it has been done by writing £6B
When > year after year, co’s. manage to
thtt int H he t sa meamount of profit-just enough to pay
tieir dn.dend and have a pound or two to spare—it
Al 16 u " 9leasant ldea either that they have made
more than they say and used the balance to cover de-
imn C rnvpH n, ih- that (hey have reall y made less, and have
rt“ p ™y, ed th ‘ n S 9 on paper by not fully providing for
predation. Either way, the beastly regularity of
things makes the balance-sheet look a very doubtful
n 1 1 • °;- s posltlon ’ an<l creates a fear that some
aav a depreciation question will have to be faced. It is
position - l i a i he . National Trustee Co. is not in this
position, but in that case the results, year after year
are so remarkably alike that they constitute a curiosity. *
Enquirer: Re Ringarooma Dairy Co., it appears
assets - s SS ° f!l on the year ’ s business. The
£1399 to «h-,f i whlle J h ? C - ovves £336 t 0 a and
£307 Sh S : T bat ~ s t 0 sa J’- E has a deficit of
of Tu l ' ,D " The r -°- F - 18 a good society to get out
attipfiM*! ”l aln r . easons are: (1) No surrender value
a andi,l'/r'T! ; (2) premiums maybe increased
at uni time , (3) for the small insurer, reckoning in dues.
office 6 ha " average sound Australian
• au 6 ’ . wh,le has 111 hand only enough to mv
2d the EF T S ?q odcies ’ r t 4 enough * toPpa y 75."
mL;-" n (Selangor): Since July, 1899, Queensland
Menzies Co. has paid 15 dividends, totalling 7s per share
ffimoith in ?^’- 1899 > two of 3d - i» 1900, three of 6d?
in 1901, three of 6d. in 1902, six of 6d. in 1903.
* * * *
th Westralia, especially on
Whe goldfields, over the size of the fire insurance pre-
the U Srlvd 1Ch ’ h 18 a ' l } efred ’ have not been reduced since
the ead.v days when there was no water supply ; and an
7 „? °" bas started for a State fire insurance depart-
ment on Maoriland lines. p u
The Freehold Assets Realisation Co. (Mel-
bourne) was formed to do the work of burying the
lamentable Freehold Investment and Banking Co. with
as much decency and despatch as possible ; but it finds
the business slow. According to a calculation made some
time afterwards, it started with liabilities to depositors
and others (apart from shareholders) of £1,616,012, had
paper assets of £1,289,163, and a paper deficit of £326,849.
The undertaking co. began to buy up the late lamented’s
deposit receipts at a heavy discount, and sell its assets as
it got the chance ; and the progress has been such that,
nowadays, the co. finds that it isn’t rushed with deposit
receipts at the old rate. Cash is therefore accumulating,
and so the directors now propose to distribute some to its
depositors at the rate of Is. in the £ of their receipts.
The proceedings are complicated, but the main features
of the progress which the winding-up has made are shown
hereunder (“B" scrip represents unpaid interest which
is only a contingent liability):—
“ A ” Deposit Paid
Receipts “B ” Scrip “A” Deposits for “A ”
Outstanding. Outstanding. Redeemed. Deposits.
1896 .. £1,361,671 £10,983
1897 .. 1,135,837 £258,593 29,105
1898 .. 1,025,858 29 914
1899 .. 943,410 250,527 18,838
1900 .. 872,345 247,005 17,353
1901 .. 788,159 241,961 21,703
1902 .. 702,794 232,189 22,954
1903 .. 656,974 228,938 12,934
Totals .. .. £704,697 £163,784
That is, £704,697 “A" deposits have been bought up for
£163,784, or at the average rate of about 4s. Bd. in the £,
though the past year’s purchases have been at the rate of
6s. 7d. in the £. As to assets (some details as to the
earlier years are unavailable)
Assets Sold Cash, &c., Loss on
(Book During in Property
Value). Year. Hand. Sold.
1896 .. £1,289,163 £27,816
1897 .. 1,116,815 23,225 £64,560
1898 .. 65,592
1899 .. 963,368 23,586 55,756
1900 .. 902,514 £60,854 25,257 43 964
1901 .. 826,678 75,836 24,304 67,351
1902 .. 774,454 62,224 25,566 80 551
1903 ... 662,842 111,612 44,092 82,360
The position, then, appears to be something
like this. While the Freehold Assets Realisation Co. has
reduced the paper value of its assets by £626,321,
it has reduced its liabilities to “A” depositors by
£704,697. and on “B” scrip (contingent liability) by
about £30,000 ; and it has increased its cash,
&c., by over £20,000. At the rate which it has been
getting for its assets during the past three years, the
remaining assets ought to be worth £192,000. And in
addition to that there is £44,092 cash, &c., less £7958
balance on profit and loss account—total £228134.
Putting the shareholders and the holders of “B” scrip
out of the reckoning, this would leave the co. with ft
present actual deficit (on the realisation basis beforemen-
tioned) of £428,840. On that calculation “A" deposits
would be worth about 6s. lid. in the £.
* * * •
A sensible step is proposed by the Municipal
Association of Victoria. During the past ten years
£10,020 has been paid in premiums by councils to com-
panies for guaranteeing their employees’ honesty ; and,
although by the introduction during that period of a
very thorough system of audit, several clerks’ sins have
found them out, the total claims paid totalled £1621 • so
the companies have pocketed nearly £lOOO per annum.
The association now proposes a municipal joint guarantee
fund. The bogey of “ State Socialism " has been trotted
out, of course, to frighten unthinking councillors with ;
but the size of the co.s* profits is proving too much for
even a full-grown bogey to successfully wrestle with.
• • • •
According to Statistician Coghlan’s estimate,
N.S.W. will, in the year ending March, 1904, reap
25,750,000 bushels of wheat, being an average of 19-2
bushels per acre. The previous largest yield was
just over 16,000,000 bushels, in 1901; and the
average per acre has not been surpassed since
1860. It is reckoned that, of this, 18,500,000 bushels will
be available for export—roughly, about £2,800,000 worth
The size of New South Wales’ public debt may be judged
from the fact that it will take the whole of this surplus to
pay a year’s interest and charges. The largest danger is
that the phenomenal harvest will give an exaggerated
idea of the importance of the agricultural business or
gamble, or whatever it is, just as the phenomenal wool
returns of 15 or 20 years ago sang a siren’s song to the
West (N.S.W.), where practically every settler has since
been ruined or thereabouts. The fact that the 1901 har-
vest was up to that time a record, and that 1902 harvest
was only second to it for magnificence, and in 1903 the
very next year—starving farmers were calling for seed-
wheat and other charitable relief, shows what sort of an
unreliable industry wheat is.
* * • •
The Australian Mortgage, Land, and
Finance Co., a J. Bull concern into whose hands a very
large part of the droughty Far West (N.S.W.) has fallen :
Added to
Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves
1898 ..£39,656 7£p.c. = £39,000 £656 £303 649
1899 .. 46,649 7* „ „ 39,000 7,649 311 298
1900 .. 61,586 7J „ „ 39,000 22,586 333 884
1901 .. 39,616 7£ „ „ 39,000 616 334500
1902 .. 39,162 7J „ „ 39,000 162 334662
Loss. *
1903.. 78,537 Nil _ 256 125
This, for the past year, is how it appears in the balance-
sheet. The chairman’s statement, made at the meeting
in London, makes things out better. In order to meet
drought losses £BO,OOO had been written off the reserve
fund ; but it is now found, the chairman says that
£42,228 will cover the loss, and, as on the agency busi-
ness a profit of £558 was made, the net loss for the year
was apparently £41,670. But while the chairman said
things were so, the balance-sheet gave the figures tabu-
lated above. The co.’s paid capital is £520,000: and it
carries £1,900,000 of 4 per cent, and £lOO,OOO 3 per cent
debenture stock, and £16,000 debentures. Its reserves
consist (according to the balance-sheet) of £250 000
reserve fund and £6125 undivided profit; the whole of
the reserves are in British, Egyptian Guaranteed, Indian
and other similar stocks.
* * • •
The most important feature of the close of
Broken Hill’s year is the tackling of the zinc business by
the B.H. Prop. The Prop., having more resources than
the other mines, has never rushed things ; the smaller
co’s., thrown into desperation by adverse turns in the
metal markets, have pioneered more than their fair pro-
portion of metallurgical and other changes. When the
Prop, takes up a thing, it is therefore pretty safe to con-
clude that it is a demonstrated success. It has in this
way hung off the zinc-extraction business for years, con-
tenting itself with laboratory experiments only. Now it
has definitely adopted a chemical process, and is installing
it on the mine. More than that, with the object of getting
a cheap acid, it is stated to have secured the right to use
the Carmichael-Bradford desulphurising process, and is
erecting a sulphuric acid plant a few miles away from the
mine, down the railway line. Hitherto these desul-
phurising processes have not done the great work that
it was said they were going to do. It was not originally
intended to save the sulphuric acid fumes thrown off •
all that was aimed at was to get rid of them, and so turn
the intractable sulphide ore into a smelting ore. The
development of the acid process for making a zinc pro-
duct suggested, however, the collection of the acid
fumes ; and so the processes (at any rate, the Carmichael
process) jump into prominence again. But, valuable
as zinc (spelter) is, and enormous as are the quantities
known to be lying in the dumps on the mine awaiting
treatment, shareholders need not expect to get verv
much profit out of the treatment—in the early future
anyhow. The trouble is that even the chemical process
adopted by the B.H. Prop, will not produce spelter All
it will yield is a zinc product—something that wiil still
have to go through the painfully-slow and expensive
zinc-smelting or retorting process, for which, so far. the
co - .uL“ a< ! e 110 Preparations in Australia. Zinc is
worth £2l a ton ; the stuff that the co. will produce may
be worth £5 or so. But the zinc dumpa are earning
nothing at present; and even a very small margin of
profit is better than that.
• • • ■
Broken Hill has got more disappointments than
pleasant surprises out of 1903. The year opened with the
lead market improving; from £lO 17s. 6d. it moved
rapidly to £l3 15s. in April, and then as rapidly turned
back, and in the latter part of the year has kept between
£ll and £ll 10s. At £l3 every main-lode mine could
pay ; with present appliances it is doubtful whether any
except the B.H. Prop., South, and Central (Sulphide Cor-
poration) can work legitimately and pay at under £l2
10s. Block 10 will, no doubt, be able to work at a profit
at £ll when it gets its new plant. The future of the lead
market is most uncertain. The normal price is believed
to be somewhere about £l2 10s. or £l3 ; the lower price
lately ruling has been the result of the boom in produc-
tion which followed the boom in prices of 1899-1900;
in the latter year the average was £l7 2s. 6d.
Twelve months ago it was believed that the accumulated
stocks had been about worked off, and hence the rise in
price was expected ; and yet the market toppled again.
Prophesying in the lead market is an unsafe business.
Nevertheless, the New York M. and E. Journal, which
ought to be an authority on the subject, says that
“ while there has been a large increase in the con-
sumption of lead in the U.S. during the last three years,
the production of domestic mines remains at a standstill.
. . . Three years ago production had considerably outrun
the demand then current and the stocks carried by pro-
ducers were very heavy. ... At the present time they
are really low.” That is hopeful, anyhow.
The other day there were big-headed paragraphs
in the papers—•“ Lead Wanted.” The N.S.W. Govern-
ment had, it was breathlessly announced, received from
its Commercial Agent in “ the East ” a cable that he had
just been offered £lO 18s. per ton for 250 tons of lead.
What all the fuss was about heaven only knows. Broken
Hill produces a good deal more than that much lead
every day of its life. Moreover, it has been sending both
lead and silver to “ the East ” for 16 years ; the late W. R.
Wilson first opened up that trade. Finally lead was just
then saleable through London at £ll 4s. Some Jap.
dealer must have been pulling the new-chum Commercial
Agent’s leg.
'** * •
Crowl Creek (N.S.W.), whose reverberatories
are now running steadily, starts the new year with J. O.
Armstrong as general manager. In milling, smelting,
and engineering work the new man has had probably
more experience than any other single officer at Broken
Hill. His last big work was the designing of the Block
10’s new plant, reckoned to be the most complete in
Australia, and probably the most complete anywhere.
• * • *
Golden Link, Kalgoorlie (W. A.), announces a
serious decline in its November return from the Eclipse
lease. From a previous average of 14jdwt. there is a
drop to 7dwt., or 295. per ton, while the tailings yield
4 - 73dwt., or 20s. per ton. This makes the gross gold
contents won 11 or 495. per ton. As the exten-
sion of the cyanide plant was not completed, only 1100
of the 4000 tons of tailings produced were treated. The
accumulated untreated residues now amount to about
20,000 tons. In his latest quarterly report (to Sept 30)
manager Haig stated that ore reserves above 100 ft. are
alone sufficient to keep the 20-head mill going for nearly
two years, and will yield a profit of over £lOO,OOO. This
mill treats about 4000 tons monthly at a stated gross cost
of 20s. to 255. a ton, and on this basis, and even
on the November grade of ore, manager Haig’s
predictions should be fulfilled. The drop in returns
has given holders a serious scare, but, unless
the manager’s estimates of reserves are wrong, the scare
is needless. The co. started in Oct., ’O2, with a clear
£20,000 cash in hand, and has since won 28,8000 z. of gold
with a considerable profit. The gold chutes are short but
wide, and, as development is proceeding, fresh levels will
be opened up long before the 100 ft. is depleted. The mill
is treating 9 tons per stamp daily.
* * * *
The 19 principal mines of the Kalgoorlie gold
belt are now all using Govt, water, the total consump-
tion for Oct. running into 16,623,000ga15., costing £4156.
The largest consumer was Golden Horseshoe, 2,852,000
gals., and the smallest Chaffers, 5000 gals The use of this
water, besides reducing' cost of reduction, will materially
reduce cost of upkeep and repairs, as mineralised salt
water, even when condensed, is very rough on pipes, etc.
* • * *
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is still
being boomed hard. If the ore really assayed 290 z. for a
foot wide, it would be the richest chute on the Golden
Mile, but it doesn’t, although it has been published that
it does. That the co. has some fairly rich patches at the
150 ft. level in Dwyer’s leases there is no doubt, but a
patch doesn’t constitute a gold mine. Until some
reserves of ore are blocked out the thing must be re-
garded as a gamble. One or two crushings may even-
tuate ; but it will only be a flash in the pan, unless some-
thing really substantial is found meantime.
• • * «
Northern Blocks Syndicate, Kalgoorlie (W.A.),
floated last May, looks like a wild cat. A large number
of boreholes have been put down, and, although some of
them were alleged to have cut pay ore, further bores have
failed to confirm the optimistic reports. Prof. Liveing
recommends the Board to lie low and let its neighbors
do the work, but, as said neighbors, North Western
Associated, have been following a similar policy for years,
and are not likely to alter it, this programme is hardly
likely to prove successful. The late Oapt. Rodda was
always willing to let tributes ; but although several
parties worked the ground, no pay ore was discovered.
Under existing conditions prospects look hopeless.
• * * *
Splendid specimens of telluride from Mulgabbie
have recently been exhibited in Kalgoorlie, and are quite
up to anything found on the Golden Mile. The speci-
mens were gob at the 100 ft. level in Robb and Phillips’
claim, and, at this depth, the lode is stated to be 4ft.
wide. The outlook is so promising that it is quite
possible that, after the holidays, genuine mining will be
started in the district. A large quantity of gold was won
from the alluvial and from rich leaders ; but no capital
has been invested in the district. If capital can be
attracted, of which there is some hope, a new gold field
may be opened up. It is nearly 100 miles north-east of
Kalgoorlie.
* • * •
Kalgurli (W.A.) continues to open, out very
satisfactorily at the two lowest levels in the north drives.
At 1000 ft. the lode runs up to 30ft. wide, and is worth
30dwt., while, at 1050 ft., it averages about loz. for about
a similar width. Manager Moss has gone to consult his
directors as to increasing the treatment plant. The
share market seems, however, to have already dis-
counted the future to some extent. As the lode has
been followed almost to the North Kalgurli boundary
in good ore, it gives a speculative value to the latter.
Unfortunately the North is not flush of cash, and no
underground work of much consequence is being done
Down to 1000 ft. the ground is very broken and the lodes
distorted, and no work has been done in really settled
country. If money were available to properly test it,
the North Kalgurli might become a mine,
* • * *
Burbank’s Birthday Gift, Coolgardie (W.A.)
has been run to a standstill, and it will be an awful con-
tract to put it straight. Almost everywhere there has
been lack of economy ; while, although there wasn’t
stone enough for the original 30-head mill, the plant was
duplicated, and, since the duplication, only 20 head have
been running, and not always regularly. The under-
ground workings are also unsatisfactory. The mine has
now been taken over by Bewick, Moreing and Co., and it
will be interesting to know who will be commissioned bv
them to do the work. If Loreing tackles the contract
he may straighten things out, as he showed his ability to
unravel a tangle at the Sons of Gwalia. Shareholders
Sii J-° ge J any return for a year at least, as it
will take that time to open up fresh reserves.
* * * *
George Ridgway, the new manager of the
Princess Royal, is to consult the Adelaide directors as to
the policy to be pursued. The new man has been
engineer and shift-boss on the Great Boulder. T.
Hewitson is consulting engineer. • At the 500 ft. level the
crosscut must go about 500 ft. before reaching the lode—a
tremendous lot of unnecessary dead-work. It would be
almost cheaper to start a new main shaft, more especially
as a very long drive has to be undertaken before the pay
chute is reached. The question is—Does the probable
life of the mine warrant this ?
• * • •
Williams Taney, Berringa (Vic.), pays its first
dividend as an Xmas box. The year’s profit was £4082,
£2193 being made in the latter half. The half-year’s
average was sdwt. Igr. per ton. Considering the amount
of dead work necessary through breaks and slides, the
profit on that grade of ore is very satisfactory. After
writing off £2448 from plant, machinery, and develop-
ment, £1035 is carried forward.
* * * *
One old West Queensland firm of station owners
which had its sheep-runs swept by drought, and was
alleged to have gone down for £250,000, “hedged,” as a
final plunge, on cattle, _ bought Burleigh and Charlotte
Plains stations and their stock, and has now begun to
smile again. Anybody with a cow to sell in West
Queensland is chased by buyers these times.
Queen Cross (Charters Towers, N.Q.) declared
the expected Christmas bonus, making, with the 2s. div
a total of £65,000 for the month and £215,000 for the
year—easily, both for a month and a year, the field’s
record.
(Continued on page SO.)
k ' ' L _
ﬂ ‘ ' 11111111111 1
.' ‘ ‘- :-. 1’."" 7".“
£17311" "wk‘v‘ .81 ‘3
. r“;":‘;"}~ )\
. \ __
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
u P t!
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Svdney ’Melbourne and
stocks of steel Rads, Mining Tip-trucks Portab.eSramway,
INDENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING * C *
SSB" Our CATALOGUE is yours for the askinq. ILS
CENTRAL MINING &, TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLAStrifp
r> Representing Orenstein and Kopped, Ltd. London Berlin
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania) ’ ’ arl3.
The Wllfley Concentrator has now reached a
very exalted position in the Concentration industry. It
had long been recognised that older types of concentrators
were unsatisfactory in many respects, being small in
capacity, intricate in construction, costly in maintenance,
difficult of adjustment and required constant supervision ;
but the “ Wilfley,” while retaining all advantages that
may have been possessed by its predecessors, was superior
to them in the following important respects : It will handle
several times more material than any belt concentrator
made, without exception. It will save a higher percent-
age of the values than any other thble, and will catch any
float gold, amalgam, or quick-silver which may escape
from the amalgamating plates. It will make cleaner and
more valuable concentrates, thus saving useless expense
for transportation of valueless material, and also reducing
the smelter charges. It requires little or no attention
when once adjusted, and no expert is required, either to
adjust or run the machine. It handles the pulp with less
power and less floor space per ton than any other con-
centrator. It has no expensive belts to crack and wear
out and no complicated machinery to keep in repair.
The Sole Agents and Manufacturers for Australia are The
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Limited, South
Melbourne.*
• • • *
The Register, Adelaide, 28th May, 1903
“ The accounts of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society reveal a very satisfactory state of affairs, progress
having been made in all directions. The chairman of
the meeting was able, with good cause, to congratulate
members upon the result of the past year’s working, and
to point confidently to the future.”*
* * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Oastlereagh-streefc, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * •
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Oo., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
• * » *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-sfc., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * * •
H. Brandon Skertohly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties,promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* « * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
♦ * *
*
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of'Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
E. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
* * ♦ *
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary Charters Towers (member of the Charter? Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private eode, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.* 8
* * * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid.. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
CYANIDE
guaranteed
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald
174 William,-street,
Melbourne ;
li Pitt-sb., Sydney ; 63 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eag-le-st.
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.
By Special Appointment to His Majesty the King.


Society
[?]
Club
[?]
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST.
“The desire to possess Beauty is keenest where refine-
ment is strongest. "—Partially-Forgotten Philosopher.
You may have five inches of smelling
apparatus and yet buy a bad rabbit. A woman,
with a nose like General Booth, was smelling
rabbits at Paddy’s Market on Saturday night.
After much sniffing she selected one, and gave it
to the dealer to wrap up. He took it, stooped to
get a piece of paper from behind the counter, and
deftly exchanged it for a bunny in the first
stages of decomposition. “Blime,” said the
vendor to his partner as the lady went off
satisfied, ‘ ‘ she picked the freshest bunny we ’ad.
Wonder what she’ll say when she unwraps that
chap.”
“N.”: Ex-policeman Crowe lately pla-
carded Melbourne with bills, signed with his
name, and formulating charges against the police.
He declares that £30,000 worth of property, has
recently been stolen in one way or another with-
out recovery. Then he goes on —“Melbourne is
infested with thieves and receivers known to the
police. Melbourne gaol and the detective-office
have been robbed. A detective’s, carriage-rug
was stolen, in the absence of his coachman.
The police are in league with thieves. Police-
men’s houses are furnished with the proceeds of
robberies. Honest persons are imprisoned by
police perjury.” And so on, including a specific
charge against the Chief Commissioner of Police.
This is, of course, more or less nonsense., but un-
doubtedly the under-manned, under-paid police
force is not giving satisfaction just now in the
detection of crime.
* * * *
“ Poneke ” : Wellington (M.L.) Ministers’
Association has been letting itself loose on the
immorality of that windy metropolis. Everybody
except the parson is going headlong to destruc-
tion. Trams, trains and ferryboats crowded
every Sawbath, birth-rate falling away, theatres
full and churches empty —in fact, things are
awful! At the same time the place is progressing
marvellously. As one Rev. Glasson thinks
“ adversity is necessary to persuade the people to
piety,” it is suggested that his screw be cut down
by, say, one-half, just to test his scheme. The
moral of it seems to be that a country gets on
best in its intervals of impiety.
* » * *
A Sydney licensing inspector, who knew
that the court did not like to issue a license to a
single man, lately reported to the bench that he
thought the rule might be broken in this case, “ as
the proposed transferee is shortly, to be married,
and meantime is carrying on with his niece.”
Application granted.
* * * *
A somewhat unusual advt. from Rock-
hampton Morning Bulletin
TV/riSS O’CONNELL, residing with her Father in
■A-*- Fitzroy-street, Rockhampton, has come in
for a Sum of Two Thousand Pounds, left by one of
her rich uncles in England
* * * *
“ Vul.” : The cable of the other week, to
the effect that five southern Hungarian women
had confessed to the poisoning of their husbands,
being aided and abetted thereto by the local
coroner, and that over 100 like cases of husband-
shifting had come to light in one district alone, is
enough to make all the world that is a husband
unwell. “ Every woman is at heart a widow,” he
remembers sadly. But where the local coroner
comes in isn’t so clear. The brisk rush of fees
resulting from such a wholesale quantity of late
lamenteds to be sat upon was probably some
inducement. Writer, after this, will always look
on the city coroner with eyes of grave suspicion,
and insist that he ought to be paid by the year
and not by the corpse.
» * » •
Bendigo’s health officer, since the
late rains flushed the drains, reports the city
should be clear of typhoid, but it isn’t. What
Bendigo, the Golden City, is going to do unless
the “late rains” are pretty frequent he doesn’t
say. All the main streets have badly-con-
structed open drains, and in many cases
the channels are formed of round blocks
of wood placed endwise. Through the
middle of the city crawls the noisome
Bendigo Creek, a large, snake-like
open sewer, whose bed is full of the
slush of ages. Melbourne’s champion
odorous suburb, Footscray, is wattle
blossom by comparison. The back
streets have no pretence to drain-
age, and the channels meander
anywhere. . The hospital this
week contains 37 cases of ty-
phoid as against an average of
three for previous years at this
season. The municipal coun-
cil’s time is mostly occupied in
bringing out singers, reciters,
and such freaks. The electric
trams lately started are in the
hands of an English company.
The Library and Mechanics’
Institute are to be closed this
month with an overdraft of
almost £1000; and the hospi-
tal and benevolent asylum are
heavily in debt. The Golden
City has become antiquated,
and smells like it.
“ Australis ” : In the discussion of that
threatened national calamity, a fourpenny rate for
a “pot” of beer, it is interesting to know what can
be given away with threepenn’orth. One leading
Melb. hotel supplies patrons with results of pre-
vious day’s racing, distances and winner’s clock-
ing ; programme of next day’s races, with the tips
of every paper published in the city; weights
carried by tligselected horses; fixtures of Warner’s
team; approaching turf fixtui-es to end of year;
gun fixtures; sports meetings to Jan., ’O4, and
boxing contests. An obliging circular also tells
one that “good and reliable information on all
matters concerning sporting, shipping, mining
shares, general conveyances,” &c., can be had —
presumably from the barmaid. And on top of all
this he gives a counter-lunch.
THEREFORE.
“ What are you smiling at?” “Jimmy made a joke.” “ How do you know it was a joke?"
“I’d heard it so often before .”
Death of a swagman in a gaol shed at
Molong (N.S.W.), t’other day, adds another to a
long list of country hospital scandals. The man
was picked up starving. There was no benevolent
asylum in the town, and the hospital refused to
admit travellers “unless in urgent need of actual
medical or surgical attendance.” So swaggie
John Harveson went to gaol, was accommodated
in a shed, and died of unsuitable food. The
Government, which provides so much of the
money for country hospitals, should take a much
greater share in the ruling of them and stop such
scandals. No hospital in receipt of a State sub-
sidy should be allowed to shut its doors on sick
poor,
r ■ a • •
“Brumby ” : Be that par recently about a
runaway motor-car in Oxford-street, Sydney.
Once saw a driverless cab dashing down the
same street. An individual chased it and
climbed up into the boot, only to discover that
the reins, usually fastened to the boot, had some-
how slipped down between the shafts, and were
trailing behind the horse’s feet, so he coolly
clambered across the roof of cab on to the dash-
board, and thence on to the horse’s back, where
he seized the reins and pulled the beast up. Also,
one day saw what looked like an empty cab
passing, with the horse at a trot. A couple of us
stopped the crock, when we discovered the driver,
incapably drdnk, hanging head-downwards from
the other side of the box. He had fallen from his
seat, and had been caught somehow across the
stomach by the reins, which were attached to the
side of his box. Got him down, and were accosted
by his inebriated pal, who woke up and fell out of
the inside of the vehicle, casually inquiring what
all the fuss was about. Old Nick looks after
his drunks without a doubt—excepting, perhaps,
odd times when he’s too busy at elections.
“J.F.D. A Sydney undertaker has
on show in his window three specimens ot the
almanacs which he has been distributing at Nmas.
One represents an old soldier pointing out a
grave to his children, and is labelled “Orphans,
In the second, ‘‘Memories,” a lonely-looking
young woman is sitting near a tombstone, lhe
third, “Christian Martyrs,” is a masterpiece;
it pictures a saintly-looking young woman
praying at full speed while a shabby old lion is
making up his mind to attack. Only one martyr
is seen. The other is probably underground—a
victim to the young woman’s early attempts at
making puff-pastry.
ONLY ONCE.
SHE: “So you don’t like Mr. Lothair.”
HE: “ Candidly , I think , he is an abounding cad.”
S HE: “ Oh, you only say that because you know
he is in love with your wife.”
HE: “Good Lord! ma’am, that’s no discredit.
Why I used to be myself—once.”
“Tommy J.P.” : Most of the women
voters of Broken Hill roused admiration by the
business-like way they set about recording their
first really truly vote. A few afforded amusement.
One lady arrived before the touts. She entered
the polling-booth at the Town Hall, and took a
chair near the door. Voters came and went, but
still the lady kept her seat, until at last she
became an object of suspicion to the rather intel-
ligent policeman on duty near the door. Robert
interrogated the lady. “Have you voted yet,
Madam?” “Voted, is ut? Why, man aloive,
they haven’t called me name yet!” “Oh, yer
name won’t be called. You lav ter go wup ta th’
table an’ see if ya name’s on th’ roll, an’ git ya
papers, an’ record ya vote.” Then the lady
snorted, “Well, well, luk at that now, an’me
been waitin’ here patiently f’rr th’ lasht two hours
f’rr me name t’be called. Now, I shan’t vote at
all. I’ll go shtraight home ! ” And she did.
UNDIGNIFIED!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John See having attributed the results of
the Federal elections in N.S.W. to the misrepre-
sentation and abuse of the Sydney daily papers,
the Daily Telegraph refers to the statement as
“somewhat undignified language.”
Of course we can’t expect the daily papers to agree
With everything that’s uttered by that noble merchant,
See.
The rift grows wider in the lute when Mr. See declares
That truth is quite a stranger to most articles of theirs.
It shows a lack of manners and of gentlemanly pride—
It’s born of simple boorishness, and quite undignified,
To have the “ hide”
To say they lied,
Is certainly undignified !
And tho’ we know the papers are conducted on a plan
That twists the acts and speeches of the opposition man ;
And that, for party purposes, they’ll often tell a cram,
And fill up many columns with an awful lot of flam—
To tell them that the world would be much cleaner if
they died,
Is reprehensible indeed, and quite undignified !
They can’t abide
To hear they’ve lied—
Such language is undignified.
Perhaps this land will know a time (tho’ distant seems
the day !)
When papers will be managed in a widely diff’rent way.
When honesty and fairness to their pages won’t be
strange,
And they will hold the man a rogue who’d try that rule
to change !
But that won’t be until the men that run ’em now are
fried,
And past remarking that plain speech is most un-
dignified—
Till they have died
Who now decide
That telling truth’s undignified 1
N.S.W.
ULOOLA.
THE JEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Celia (to a friend) :
To the Military Show
George has promised to take me.
Is it proper to go
To the Military Show.
When I worried him so
He may, after, forsake me.
To the Military Show
George has promised to take me.
George (to the same friend) :
Though I said it in jest,
I must see the thing finished.
She will come in her best,
Though I said it in jest ;
May it never be guessed
That my ardor’s diminished
Though I said it in jest,
I must see the thing fin •■l ed.
I k/rn (vied itating ):
How I wish it would pour
And prevent us from joing
I was foolish —and more ;
How I wish it would pour,
Is it vain to implore.
See how dark the sky’s growing ;
lio.v I wish it would i our
And prevent us from goin.
Envoi.
I felt sorry—did you ?
It was very provoking.
How it rained 1 How it blew !
I felt sorry—did you ?
(Ah ! if only each knew
That the other was joking.)
I felt sorry—did you ?
It was very provoking.
M.L.
W. FRANCIS CHAMBERS.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
TOM
wm.
m
DJ. Orient'' Boot
BLACK OR TAN
CALF,
16/6
Narrow or
Round Toes,
special!
VALUE j
16/6
George & Barrack-sts., Sydney
HARRINGTON’S
It
Folding: Victor*’ Camera,
PRICE, COMPLETE, 40/-
AN . . .
INTELLIGENT
PRESENT
FOR
LADY or
GENTLEMAN.
s
SI
EH
NEAT and
COMPACT.
SIMPLE TO
OPERATE.
GIVES
BEAUTIFUL
RESULTS.
ThiB little instrument is remarkable value and cannot fail to give satisfaction. It is constructed on a strong,
near and serviceable, principle, and stands in the forefront of modern, popular price Cameras. H may be
used in the hand or on stand, and is suitable for taking Portraits, Groups, Mews Snapßhot., I the
size of picture is 44x 3J in. Kitted with Achromatic Meniscus doublet Lens, four revolting a P h ™l»‘ nB *
and instantaneous Shutter, Focussing. Ground Glass, and Distance Scale. Three Double Plate holders with
Aluminium Shutters, and strong, elegant Carrying Case, and Book of Simple Instruction .
HARRINGTON & CO.. Ltd., 66 KINO ST., SYDNEY, and 93 QUEEN ST . BKISBaMI


Such a campaign of lying and slander as
the Sydney daily press carried on at last election
could only have succeeded through a degree of
stupidity on the part of the voters that is to the
reasonable mind almost unimaginable. But ex-
perience proves that almost anything in the way
of a lie can be foisted on the public, provided it is
told often enough. This is the story that a big Syd-
ney solicitor circulated around Darling Point. A
friend of his (name given) had a pet sheep (name
given) which ran on his lawn; a country friend
(name given) visiting him, remarked that the
sheep wanted shearing and shore it. For this,
as he was not a union shearer, he was sum-
moned and fined £5 by the Arbitration Court.
As a lie, for stupidity and clumsiness this beat
even the Petriana fiction and the Six Hatters
Exclusion mvth. It is such a wretchedly absurd
lie that The B jlletin is a trifle ashamed to point
out that the Arbitration Court in N.S.W. has so
far not had the sheep-shearing industry under
review and has made no rule at all about it; that
the Court has no power in any industry to inter-
fere with the friendly and unpaid service of one
man to another ; and that it has never summoned
or fined anybody for shearing anybody’s sheep
under any circumstances whatsoever. Still this lie
was firmly believed and used as an election argu-
ment by lawyers and professional men, and in
some cases it was hard to judge whether drivelling
idiocy or shameless mendacity was the explana-
tion.
* * * *
; An Australian Major, who, after the
S’African war, was invalided to England, re-
turned to S’Africa, and lately got back to Aus-
tralia, accounts for the hatred of his countrymen
over there:—
(1) The last few contingents were mostly a bad lot.
They didn’t go to fight; they went to loot. The stupid
reports in the papers encouraged that idea—the boasting
letters of early contingenters, I mean. (2) On the road
down, when the trouble was over, our men behaved dis-
gracefully many times; so often, in fact, that when
Australians were coming the guards were doubled as a
matter of course. All S’Afrieans were “ Dutchies,” and
all, friend and foe alike, suffered. They were going
home, and they didn’t care a damn. (3) Jealousy has
something to do with it —a good deal. The Australian
at the war kept one eye for the Boer and the other for a
Billet. He often saw the Billet first. (4) On the whole,
he 8 a much more pushing, wide-awake, up-to-date
person than the S’African. (5) And he has let ’em know
he thinks so.
The Law made another
exhibition of itself in Mel-
bourne lately when it de-
cided, by a Full Court con-
sisting of Justices Madden,
Holroyd and A’Beckett,
that the copper ripple-plate
of a battery was a fixture
on the soil, tenement or
messuage, and, therefore,
could not be stolen in com-
mon law, even though the
ripple-plate in question was
stolen and removed and sold
to a receiver. Also, the
law held that, not having
been “stolen,” it could not
be received, though it was
received. It is doubtless
good law, but it seems to
open up a tremendous num-
ber of possibilities. If a
ripple-plate is a fixture, a
battery or a house or a tree
is one also, and there is
nothing to prevent ill-regu-
lated persons detaching
these implements from the
estates they are fastened to
and removing them piece-
meal. Chief Justice Mad-
den publicly scoffed at the
Law, and commended the
Queensland code, which
provides that every inani-
mate thing which is capable
of being moved is capable
of being stolen.
The surveyor’s department of Mel-
bourne City Council is still helpless before the
dust nuisance. There was recently a cry to “oil
the streets, ” but that bubble soon burst. Next,
tar, from which the water had been distilled by
a chemist appointed for the purpose, was advo-
cated, and the fashionable east end of Collins-
street was decided on as the experimental plot.
The distilled tar was applied and covered with
sand. When the latter had been deposited by the
wind in all the dwellings and consulting-rooms of
the quarter, a second covering was applied, and
so on. But the summer sun began to wax warm
and the tar commenced to melt, so that it was
impossible to step from the tram without accumu-
lations of it adhering to the boots and being car-
ried into the adjacent palatial premises. Com-
plaints of spoilt carpets were numerous, and more
sand was applied—and blown off. Then blue-
stone screenings were put on top of the tar in the
hope of holding down the demon, and the old-
fashioned steam roller was rolled over it, but the
tar still finds its way to the surface or flows
towards the gutter, where a special channel has
been cut to receive it. Unless Irvine’s breath
can be used to keep the tar cool there does not
seem to be any remedy. Meanwhile, the doctors’
end of Collins-street would gladly give the respon-
sible parties the free run of its poison bottle.
♦ * * *
“ F.” writes re the alleged unfinishedness
and practical abandonment of the soldiers'
memorial on St. Kilda-road (Melbourne): —
The wrongness of this allegation will be proved in a
week or two by the withdrawal of the scaffolding and the
official “ opening” of the memorial. To my knowledge,
the work has never stopped. It is not a Government job.
A notice-board states that the memorial is being erected
by a Vic. Mounted Rifle corps, and, presumably, it is
being paid for b.v monthly levies on the subscribers.
Which would explain why the contractor has proceeded
calmly and steadily with the stony task. He took no
risks. The moderately ugly monument appears to be
quite finished.
* * * *
A Point Macleay (S.A.) half-caste lecturing
an Adelaide missionary meeting on the duty of
being good to one’s wife (Register, Nov. 25):
I have a wife, and everybody on the mission station
will tell you I have never said anything to her. I have 15
children. (Laughter.) I have had twins there. (Loud
laughter.) I tell all you young men that I hope you will
follow my example. (Uncontrollable laughter.)
Curious how the Truly Good always “comeat”
any little thing like that.
The honorary magistrate—especially the
Victorian honorary magistrate—is an unusual
creature, but two of him (of Prahran) were lately
more than usually unusual, and more wildly
honorary than the average. In this case a girl-
wife applied for maintenance. Her story, which
doesn’t seem to have been contradicted with any
energy, was that her husband treated her with
fiendish cruelty (one item in the charge was that
he knelt on her for an hour shortly before her
confinement, the result being that the child was
born crippled), and that he kept her totally
without money. Then the honorary Bench dis-
missed the case on the ground that defendant had
made a bona fide offer to take his wife back.
It seems a curiously irrelevant view to take
of the matter. No one had apparently denied
his bona fide readiness to take her back. In fact
her opinion seems to have been that he urgently
wanted her back so that he might hit her in a
fresh place, and that he was intensely and pain-
fully bona fide in the matter. The wife asked for
a little money and a cessation of the walloping
process and the bench gave her a stone —at least it
said that a house, probably of wood with a stone
foundation, was at her service. To the J.P. mind
a house is a cure for all ills, and a brick cottage
can minister to a mind diseased or repair a broken
heart.
* * * *
A Grecian female oyster-saloon keeper in
Brisbane was recently fined for employing two
young girls 90 hours per week for a wage of 3s.
She “parted” just two-fifths of a penny per hour.
And yet Byron wrote “ Maid of Athens, ere we
part ” —as if she was liable to part at any moment.
* * * *
In Perth (YV.A.) the Chinaman has begun
advertising for “ white Maly ” :
A CHRISTIAN Chinese, with means, aged 28, good-
looking, kind, affectionate, desires to meet
Lady, with view to matrimony.
* * * *
The Sydney tram conductors, or some of
them, now merely announce the name of the street
at which they stop without mentioning the word
“ street ” itself. The idea is a good one. Afore-
time it used to be “Kn-ST-KEET.” The passen-
ger knew it was a street, and that was all. Nowa-
days he hears “ King,” and he has sense enough
to know it is a thoroughfare and not an oil-
painting.
A RESOURCEFUL PARISHIONER.
PRIEST : “ What, John, eating meat an a
Friday!”
J OHN: “I never allow my religious principles
to interfere with my stomach, Father.”
HIS REVERENCE : “Ah, but what will you do
with your stomach, John, when you go
to hell?”
JOHN: “ Well, I’ll just shweat it off, Father Murphy."
'
“Grasstree”: “Periwinkle,” in his par re
picnics (Bulletin, 15/11/’O3), does not give fair
play to Methodists. He says they only give me
feed during the day, and charge a shilling for it.
But look at the excitement they provide ! Read
the record of broken legs, broken arms, children
ptomaine-poisoned, girls kicked by horses, run
over by buggies, or by trains, that have occurred
at Methodist picnics during, the last couple' of
years! If “Periwinkle” wants two feeds for a
“bob” with all this thrill thrown in, he is a
glutton.
Tho Convent of the Good Shepherd at
Perth (W.A.) had two days’ experience of an
impenitent Emily, of “evil fame,” and then sent
her back to the police as an incurable case who
wouldn’t work. Refusal to work speedily dis-
qualifies a lost sister for salvation at any
religious soul-saving establishment. Emily,
for her part, alleges that she was put to work
for 15 hours at a stretch, and had her arm
burned by a good shepherdess as punishment for
daring to talk during business hours. The lady
superior of the convent was called upon to appear
at the police court and refute the hot-iron story,
and the court decided that the refutation was
satisfactory, and that Emily was a bad lot. Pro-
bably the court was right, and there was no shred
of truth in Emily—still, just because the world is
full of Emilies, The Bulletin intends bringing
out with all speed its own patent and irre-
proachable convent or refuge, which will be
above suspicion. It will be surrounded by
iron railings instead of by walls, and will
have movable back, front and sides. All
work will be done with the front of the build-
ing taken out, so that the exact hours of labor
may be observed from the road. Meals will
be taken similarly, so that the quality of the
food may be inspected from the road. Religious
instruction ditto, so that the quality of the doc-
trine may be examined from the road. Confession
and penance will be done in the middle of the
road, so as to be open to inspection. The audited
balance-sheet will be hung on the gate, so that
passers-by can see how the money is applied.
People like Emily will sleep on the railings, so
that the public can see that they aren’t ill-used at
any hour of the day or night. The Scarlet
Woman, if that visible symbol exists, will sit on
the gate-post, so as to be open to inspection. In
fact, the telescope of examination will dispel the
breath of scandal, and the most violent Emily
won’t be able to circulate a coherent accusation.
• * * *
N.S.W. Justice Walker :
He could feel no confidence that a man whose sense of
honor would not of itself make him a trustworthy witness
would become such by reason of the religious sanctity of
an oath.
And that being so, why does not Justice Walker
urge the abolition of court test oaths ? Nothing
more farcical, or indeed irreligious, can be con-
ceived than the swearing practices of our law
courts.
That ghastly person, the kerosene suicide,
rpi becoming almost common in Australia now.
.The latest case is in IS. A., where a young man of
22 poured oil over his head and then turned him-
self into a sort of demented torch.
♦
By special appointment to his Excellency the
Governor-General. T, Wild, gentlemen’s hair-
dresser, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the arcade
that runs from George-street to King-street.
(Hours 8.30 a.m. until 6.30 p.m., Wednesdays 1
Saturdays !) o’clock.) *
THE SIEGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JfIULL •panoplied in silken state
While trumpets boldly play their part
A woman comes who would besiege—
And take by storm—a poor man’s heart
She wages war with daintiness,
And cunningly she quells her foe
By craft like Joshua and his hosts
Before the walls of Jericho
Poor foe ! he deems himself secure
In mighty strength that naught can harm,
Nor knows that, pacing slow, she weaves
Around him a most potent charm.
So from his castle wall he scans
The splendor of her brave advance,
Smiling, serene, as one who eyes
The treading of some stately dance.
But, when her spells are fully wrought,
Once more her challenge rings on high—
He stands a space, still undismayed,
And then—surrenders utterly!
ALICE J. MUSKETT.
THE SLUMP OF GLORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was talking-, the other day, to an officer of European
experience, who informed me that in a short time most
of the Continental armies will be dressed in dirty-grey or
kharki. But the French Army rose as one multitude and
bitterly, and successfully, objected to the abolition of its
red trousers. A corpse in red trousers is a national hero
—in mud-colored moleskins he is carrion.
I hail the fact; I like to know
Before I start to sing
That men in butchers’ clothes must go
To do their butchering.
Who lured the Heroes of old times
To battle ? Bards bygone
In scarlet ballads, purple rhymes
And verse vermilion.
And young men rushed upon their doom,
And rode away to war,
All for the cussed snow-whi e plume
Of Henry of Navarre.
In that great primal Grecian day
When Heroes fought at Troy,
No Homer could have sung if they
Had fought in corduroy.
A man may die, and proudly die,
For home and beauty—if
In green and scarlet he may lie
When he is cold and stiff.
CREEVE ROE .
i
' 1
** u t
■
JH
1 sws
Highfield
Hotel
TASMANIA’S
LEADING
HOTEL
-^HOBART.
Newly erected : Commodious .
Cuisine, Accommodation, Perfect.
THE
IN
BEST
THE
WORLD
WATSON’S WHISKY.
■itescn’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Helpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Unvarying
irv
Quality.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 29, 1903.
My Dear Arini,—
The holy season of “geese on earth and good
fill to men ” is as specially associated with the pro-
duction of Handel’s “Messiah ” as with the Xmas
pudding. Sydneysiders filled tfieir Town Hall to
the number of 4000 on Xmas night to hear the
immortal oratorio. A sacred open-air festival
given at Sydney Cricket Ground on the same
night drew another four or five thousand. This
festival was arranged by Madame Christian and
Mr. Oliver Reece. The ex-star still shines some-
what from behind her convent walls, and she
“arranges” many musical performances, yet
never sees their production. There’s something
pathetic in it. One may imagine her waiting to
be told on the morrow “ how it all went off.”
For the past six or seven months the name of
Gerontius has been growing familiar to Sydney-
siders through sporadic newspaper - mention.
“The Dream of Gerontius,” a lyric poem, by
Cardinal Newman, realised in music, oratorio
form, by Dr. Elgar, was produced for the first
time on this section of the planet by Mr. J. A.
Delaney, leader of St. Mary’s choir, last week, at
Sydney Town Hall. Many persons had, months
ago, bought the tiny booklet, read the dream, and
then endorsed Gladstone’s comment about it
as one of the finest things in our language.
But these were of the elect, who are first over the
fence in the pursuit of culture. Others read about
20 lines, then, with a worried expression, glanced
at the end to see who finally got Gerontius’
soul, Heaven or , then looked to the title
page and said, “Good gracious!” wonderingly,
at the intimation, “ XII. Edition.” I had read
the poem years ago, and thought that Gerontius
took his dying too seriously Most of us do take
our deaths that way—a weakness of ours. Quite
lately I got hold of the score of the oratorio,
and Once, when in pursuit of material for a
t-ory military story, I was shown at fortified
Queenscliffe (Vic.) the barbed wire, spread over
the glacis of the fort to mesh a hostile invading
force. It was half-covered with wild convolvuli.
Had forgotten that memory and the sensation it
gave me until the sight of the score, bristling
with difficulties, recalled both. Mr. Delaney
fully deserve! the laurel and. wreaths and
bay-leaf batons and floral harps and other
appropriate symbols handed up to him. He
carried all the difficult, subtly-defended positions
without apparent effort, rushed his massed forces
up musical precipices with ease and brilliancy,
and raced them down pianissimo ravines as
smoothly as the water comes down at Wentworth
Falls. His detached forces, such as the soul
of Gerontius, the mezzo-soprano angel, and the
priest, also covered themselves with glory—the
glory of hard work admirably done (hard, too, in
the sense of being quite unmelodious).
Great Pluto—-how dismal was it all! Grand in
spots ; as, for instance, in the hymn of the Choir
of Angelicals, “ Praise to the Holiest in the
Height! ” with its strange, sudden close, as if an
iron shutter had dropped between the majestic
volume of sound and the ears that listened. I
liked best the demon chorus, “The Mind Bold
and Independent.” The demons jeer and shriek
and yell most fiendishly, singing “Ha, ha, ha!”
making noises like the whirring of owls’ wings,
and in effect asserting that they wouldn’t have
Gerontius’ soul at any price (the grapes being
sour) —no, not if it were offered to them with a
large, well-irrigated tract of country. Judging
by the voices, many of the demons were girls.
Judging by facts, a good many demons will be
girls.
Platform looked a great picture, with its hun-
dreds of black-and-white-clad men and white-clad
young women singers, who, when they fluttered a
fan apiece, had a far-off resemblance (from the
western gallery) to winged creatures. The red-
robei Cardinal, in honor of whose sacerdotal
jubilee the oratorio was produced, sat below
the platform. On his right were the white,
gleaming shoulders of Mayoress Hughes. Audience
was large and intensely appreciative of the
sonorous warring of celestial and infernal powers
and the very wailful special pleading of a saint in
the body and out of the body.
Mrs. Nellie Martel, who stood for the Senate
in the recent elections and didn’t do very well,
threatens, ’tis said, to issue a writ against a
Sydney weekly for publication of certain matter
alleged to be derogatory to her.
At a Beauty Show, held at Leeds (Eng.) re-
cently, a man and a woman were chosen, out of
many entries, as the highest types of physical
culture to represent England at the international
tournament in New York, at which the winners
will receive £2OO each. The woman’s age is 20
years; her height, sft. 3|in. ; weight, 1261 b. ;
waist, 24£in. ; bust, 33|in.
Physical culture is culting so strongly in Sydney
that it would be an interesting move of the schools
to hold a Beauty Show—or rather a perfect-form
contest —the perfect form as developed by this or
that method, and in opposition to the “erect
form ” that is corset-made. An Australian
Governor’s wife got a physical culture outfit as a
Xmas present this time last year. No name
accompanied the gift, and it was sent on to a con-
valescent home. The lady thought she was
already sufficiently cultured.
Their Excellencies the Rawsons, who will pre-
sently depart for Moss Vale, attended St. Andrew ft
Cathedral on Xmas day, and got plenty of Xmas
bush and flannel flower decorations and Athan-
asian creed. Can’t imagine the recitation of that
creed among Australian wild-flower surroundings.
One of the minor studies of these tea-room-
rushed holidays is the waitress who takes your
order and materialises the same. The rapidity
with which she does both rivals shooting the
chute at Manly. The tea-shop girl marries easily,
so perhaps men like being waited on with a bang
and a clang and a rush and a blush (I don’t know
about the last, but it rhymes with her leading
characteristic of rush). Yet papers like Home
Chokes and Woman’s Skite are always telling
girls that a man likes repose in his wife. “ Cheer-
fulness by all means, but no bustle or clatter.
If the tea-room girl marries a poor man and does
her own work, she can afford to get up late and
yet let him have his breakfast in time. Anyhow
the male tea-room browser likes the lightning-
change waitress even in the Cold Country. _ Last
year the chairman, at the annual meeting of
the Aerated Bread Company, deplored the fact
that so great was the demand in the marriage
market for their best waitresses that they had to
fill an average of four vacancies each week. It is
the practice of the company to present each bride
with a wedding cake, and this, in addition to the
presents sometimes made by customers, the chair-
man suggested, had considerably increased the
number of marriages. And the co., thinking of
its profits, contemplates in the future presenting
young ladies, on engagement, with a smudge on
the nose or a black eye.
N.S.W. Public Service Commissioner Delohery
has figured lately in the Law Courts in an (as yet)
unsuccessful attempt to prevent a financial insti-
tution building next door. Pa Delohery has
owned his present house in a fashionable street
for some years, and the co. threatened to put up
a house next door which would block up the bath-
room windows of Pa Delohery aforesaid. So, with
one son as barrister and other instructing him as
solicitor, the clan Delohery sought to suppress the
invading co. with the theory of “Ancient Lights”
(they are called “Auld Lichts” in Scotland), £in old
English idea which, under certain conditions,
gives to a landlord the light which comes through
his windows, and allows him to be visible from
outside while having his bath. So far the Court
has held that the doctrine of Ancient Lights does
not apply in Australia. Perhaps our lights are
not sufficiently ancient, or perhaps what we
require is a bit of shade.
The late CAPTAIN CARRINGTON, of the
s.s. Coogee.
That tragedy which overtook the steamer
Coogee in Bass Straits last Friday was the sort of
thing which would sound too improbable even to
put in a novel. There was a big Italian ship
drifting helplessly in the dense fog and the early
moiling gloom. Then the steamer, dodging
through the same curtain, passed under the lum-
bering craft’s jibboom, which raked the whole
length of the deck, killed Captain Carrington,
badly injured everybody else within reach, and
knocked mast, funnel, bridge, boats, deck-houses,
&c., into a heap. The Italians, though badly
encumbered with those' long names that the
Roman always drags after him, s 3ein to have done
everything that was possible; their own vessel
had a hole the size of an omnibus in the bow, yet
it towed the Coogee 90 miles on its homeward
way. The deceased Captain Carrington had made
1810 trips across the strait in command of the
Coogee, and was about the best-known and best-
liked shipmaster on the coast. There are many
ways in which a sailor can die, but to be struck by
a strange vessel’s jibboom on the high seas is about
the strangest death of all.
Four crippled English gentlemen and one ditto
English lackey—crippled by one French gentle-
man fighting against fearful odds, and with
(according to the book) only a light dress-sword !
The Frenchman is always brave and honorable,
the Englishmen (those he pinked) are bullies or
cowards, and a sixth (a Buke too!) cheats at
cards! Five Englishmen crippled by one
foreigner and paraded for the laughter of
a huge audience, which included the repre-
sentative of British Majesty glittering in
the managerial box! That’s an astonished
memory I brought from seeing first performance
in Sydney of “Monsieur Beaucaire” at Her
Majesty’s. French Consulate was fully repre-
sented in the dress circle and its smiles had no
reason to be on the wrong side of its face.
One may describe the story of “Monsieur
Beaucaire” with the much-abused word “charm-
ing,” then add “ froth.” In the book the heroine,
Lady Mary Carlyle, has a heart of chalk, in the
play a heart of gold. And the play, unlike the
book, gives you the happy (conventional) ending
which, because things seen are mightier than
things read, is the right conclusion and saves you
from that sinking feeling when the curtain drops
on the last act, and you pull out the hat-pin that
skewers your wraps together with a joyful feeling
that the princely Jack has won his lovely Jill.
One could easily be a Lady Sncerwell about
book and play. Booth Tarkington must have
written with his tongue in his cheek at times
but it is delightful to watch the men of fashion
and the fine ladies of Bath live over again for us
some of the conventional lies of their civilisation.
Their attitudinising, their deliberate struttmgs,
their low bowings and curtseyings and their
funereally slow minuets took up so much time in
a confessedly fast period that one would guess,
even if one didn’t know for certain, that they had
no automobiles or kitchen lancers. (By the way,
I’m not certain about the kitchen lancers.)
A passionate prince disguised as a barber is
very much the fairy prince of romantic girlhood,
and Mr. Julius Knight, who got a gladsome
greeting after his long absence, kept up
the pleasing illusion, and so struck sympathetic
sparks from his audience, despite the fact that
it was not all eighteen years old and feminine.
Miss Maud Jeffries, who also got a warm
welcome, looked very handsome, and filled her
rdle with the stately artificiality that the part
seemed to demand.
Our friend, Inez Bensusan, has an interview
with pianiste Elsie Hall in S.A. Ckitic. A
portrait of Elsie, in which she doesn t look a day
over 40, nestles among the letterpress. There’s a
lot about “Bluebell,” a Pomeranian spaniel, in
the interview, and also the information that the
Ehrbar firm (Vienna piano-makers) are sending
the pianiste to their headquarters early, in the
year for a series of concerts —so well do they like
hsr playing on their instrument.
Among the wedding presents sent to a recently-
made bride were no fewer than eight belt buckles.
8.-b.’s are going to have a great vogue, say fashion
authorities. The Sydney Goldsmiths and Silver-
smiths Alliance is just now showing some par-
ticularly novel specimens. One is an Amen-
can-looking eagle of oxydised silver, with
turquoise eyes and a Declaration-of-Independence
expression. The American peacock charm is
another of the Alliance’s specialities, and so is the
peacock hatpin, showing the “eyed” feather
under a transparent disc. The Nellie Stewart
wish-bone ring is another novel circlet. And if you
want a diamond necklet, tied in a quaint bow and
fit for a fairy queen or just a nice human girl,
take a tram and more than your fare, and go and
get it. Enamel trinkets, in the form of flowers,
buds and stars, are also at the Alliance, and on
the invention of new charms inventors have ex-
pended much brain force. A very thin watch, for
a dress-coat pocket, is a good thing for a beau who
is particular about his fit and figure, and who
would perish if his clothes bulged.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“The Crossley visit to Gippsland was the
signal for high old times in that sleepy region of
fat cattle. Bairnsdale covered itself with glory
by giving the singer a ride in a bullock-dray.
‘ Our Ada ’ jumped at the notion, with a view to
photographs in the English papers, and accord-
ingly made her entrance into Bairnsdale behind a
span of eighteen beasts, with a driver glorious in
full bullocky rig according to the gospel of Rolf
Boldrewood. The bone-shaker was turned for the
nonce into a bower of greenery, and ameliorated
by armchairs.
“ Sale, which has large ideas, and looks upon
itself as the hub of fashion, woke from its
perennial sleep to make a joyful noise before Miss
Crossley. The mayor, a bustling Yankee, gave a
huge reception in her honor, and thereto came
from the hollow trees and wire fences all the un-
• numbered tribe who ever claimed remote cousin-
ship with the singer. She was presented with a
fearful and wonderful jewel, representing a native
bear, a kangaroo, an emu and a jackass gambolling
round the Southern Cross. Poor old Southern
Cross—how it is worked to death ! The
local talent sang, and the guest of the
afternoon applauded until her gloves split.
One damsel warbled ‘Out on the Rocks,’ and
wept in the evening when Miss Crossley gave it
as an encore. The concert was crowded at night,
and the audience yelled itself hoarse with delight
at each number, and addressed the singer freely
as ‘Ada.’ A motley collection of flowers was
given her, ranging from a many-guinea bouquet
from Melbourne to posies of geranium and wall-
flower tied up with sprigs of pepper-tree.
‘ Ourada ’ gathered them all in with the same
all-embracing smile until they became too heavy
for her, and were dumped on the platform. After
the concert the ‘ swagger ’ contingent carried
Miss Crossley off to a small and select supper,
where they asserted freely that she was a jolly
good fellow until the small hours of the morning.
“In the Crossley boom, there has been one
omission. Ada hasn’t been asked to xJ an f a
vegetable. Viee-Regals, Melbas, and Dukelets
have held spades when spades were trump
local gardens, but not Ada. As soon as
Waxellency succeeded to the ‘ Stomngton .
and the dependencies thereof, Curator G .
secured him for a spade job, and the y. r^an A onK
man did his duty for all he was worth. A
the select feminines who have spaded, t I
formance of Lady Tennyson ranks highest. °
ripped off he* gloves and dug like a gardens.
She loves gardening.
“ Rupert Clarke and two of his brothers have
started from Maoriland on a long cruise m tne
bart.’s new yacht. Mrs. Baronet (with her
daughters) still lingers in the Cold Count Ji
where the Sydenham Clarkes-father, mother and
daughter—are also convalescing from Austra
twang. So Bishop Clarke’s only daughter, during
present local scarcity of ‘Miss Clarkes, b
more largely than ordinary. Unlike her s y aa ’
smiling mama, she’s big, and has large teatur
like the Bishop. When she learns from Aus-
tralians how to dress to the climate, and gains 1
vivacity and deportment, after the manner ot sne-
Bri tons who increase their social importance y
coming to the Commonwealth, she will probably
be labelled ‘fine-looking.’
“ For the sake of Ada Crossley and W. Peter-
kin’s star parts in the Philharmonic ‘ Messiah
performance, a great throng packed into tne
Town Hall Christmas night, and steamed in sym-
pathy. The beautifully-prepared (expression is
used without prejudice) contralto wore white, all
a-quiver with silver points, and comet-tails run-
ning in the direction that makes for the elongated
effect. A large chou of the shade of the purple
iris on the corsage was bounded north and south
and east and west by the accumulated presenta-
tion gifts of the Australian pilgrimage.
“ The Ballarat relatives of Miss Florence Towl,
one of the first fledglings to flutter Europe-ways
from the Marshall-Hall Conservatorium, are
delighted with her successes in Germany, ohe
has been jilaying in opera, and her flattering
press notices would make a long day’s reading. ■ 1
wonder does she still make grimaces ? In the old
student days, her singing was often marred by
the sauerkraut faces that occurred in the
strong, soulful passages of her German songs.
“ Another Marshall-Hall student, Miss Kate
Samuels, is now ‘Madame Benda’ (hats. off,
Bendigo) to the concert world, but in private
circles, Mrs. Wesley Mills. She met and married
in Leipzig the American of that name. He is
a professor of physiology at Montreal, and a
throat specialist of renown. Presently Madame
Benda makes an American concert tour.
“ ‘ Madame Benda 5 is a reasonably good name,
but when the great Ballarat or Geelong star
comes along and calls herself Madame Bally, or
Madame Gee-gee, this habit of naming singers
after their birth-towns will fall into disrepute.
“Beautiful to observe the qualified artists ex-
changing compliments in a sub rosa manner at
a recent show. So naive to smile their admira-
tion at each other in full view of the watchful
audience, or to murmur ‘Fine!’ with a confir-
matory nod. This sort of thing sets a seal of
approval on the boisterous applause, and the
crowd considers itself more than ever a good
judge, when sister, or brother artists murmur
congratulations.
“ Collins-street has lost its dear old beau —Pat
M'Caughan. Melbourne had no greater damdy,
and no more critical connoisseur of feminine
charms. His eye ever kindled at sight of a neat
figure, a smart foot, or a bright face.
“ The John Cookes, of frozen-meat fame, have
taken the Governor’s summer residence on Mace-
don Heights. The charming little roost yawned
for a summer occupant.
“ The most exploited fashion of the day is the
belt with the tails. The resourceful She finds her
cravat come in handy as an appendix. Some of
the tails spread out into fan shape, a few hang
straight down with chenille bobs or drops at the
end. The most elaborate are the chintz silks,
piped and boned and fur-tailed. The boning
business becomes a nuisance. All the approved
collars have whalebone partitions that stab the
neck at every intake of oxygen. It’s very trying.
But there’s nothing for it. The nude neck sug-
gests a kittenish kind of coquetry that the proper
find intolerable. And, this hot weather, it’s
either no collar at all, or one girded up to the
ear lobe with whalebone.
“ Among the Christmas appeals in the Argus,
the other day, one turned up from the Lost Dogs’
Shelter. Like all the rest of these appeals, the
letter was footed with the full name and address
of the person controlling the institution. And,
after all, there appears no good reason why an
advertisement should not be hung on to the tail of
a lost dog.
“Labor member Bromley, last week, made
another casual attempt (and another failure) to
pick the lock of Puritanism that keeps Melb.
Public Library closed to the public on Sundays.
Bromley’s way of urging the claims of Common
Sense in this matter is quite unworthy of its im-
portance. He approaches the political Sabba-
tarians cap in hand, and humbly suggests that
those heterogeneous Tories shall consent to the
opening of the Library on condition that no em-
ployee be ‘ compelled to work on any Sunday
against his conscience.’ The amendment, if passed
in this form, would presumably prove inoperative.
The attendance of the staff—or a sufficient number
of the staff—can be secured by offering a cash
inducement to conscience-breakers. Lord’s pay
for Lord’s Day.—Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
%
&
<s
£
S>
“VALAZE” Russian Skin Food eradicates
fneckles, wrinkles, sunburn, sallowness, acne pimples,
all blemishes. Guaranteed to improve the worst skin in
one month. Price 3s 6rt and 6s, postage 6d. Miss Nellie
Stewart writes : “ Valaze has made a marvellous differ-
ence in my complexion; cannot praise it enough.”
Helena Rubinstein & Co,, 243 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
Lacte. —If you are stout you don’t require it;
if you are thin, you do. No one can afford to
become thin and lined. Lacte plumps the face,
neck, arms, and bust. If you wish to look grace-
ful send Bs. 2d. to Guest’s, 229 Bourke-street,
Melb., for Lacte (and postage). Advice free.
Sydney agents : Mrs. Rogers, 54 Strand Arcade,
and Miss Outhbert, 11 Victoria Arcade.*
| FACILE PRINCEPS. | | SEMPER iDEM._|
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
m
6*
MARK
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
THE VARNISHED BOARD
&
CCIWSC
itpse -
wers- "V
alt
Be sure
ta .gel" Hie
RIGHT,
V»e
fiery Corset is branded inside on band
RD.
** *
PD.
Refuse gU ethers •


PERSONAL ITEMS.
The spread of the Glad Tidings ! A Kent-
street (Sydney) Chinaman is named William
Francis Xavier Hin Chin.
Deeming, Australia’s boss wife-murderer,
lived for a time in the building in King-street,
Sydney, in which Truth newspaper is now pub-
lished.
Who was the oldest voter at the recent
elections? Mrs. G. S. Smith, of Summer Hill
(N.S.W.) was aged 90, and there was a Viotorian
lady voter of 91.
No Hebrew minister officiating in
Australia is Australian born. Up to the other
day, and for 12 years past, Melbourne had one ;
but he has resigned.
John Watsford (born at Parramatta Dec.
5,1820) is the oldest and best-known of Methodist
ministers in Australia. He resides in Melbourne,
and still preaches occasionally.
The estate of Baronet Nicholson, formerly
of N.S.W. and Queensland, who died recently in
England at the age of 95 years, has been proved
for "probate purposes at £87,810.
Ex-Premier John Hall, of M.L., now into
his 80th year, has been going round listening to
Chamberlain, and reckons him up the best and
most convincing speaker he ever heard.
It was part of the general fitness of things
that the intensely grovelling address presented to
Gov. -Gen. Tennyson at Fremantle (W.A.) was
signed by Cadd, mayor, and Humble, town clerk.
A pious stock and sharebroker is some-
thing out of the common. Sydney Stock Exohange
boasts of one, who carries around a pocketful of
tracts which he distributes amongst the gamblers.
“ W.’ from Adelaide :
Nellie Martell, who tailed the poll for the Senate in
N.S.W., is a sister of ex-Senator Charleston who was
defeated in S.A. Two Camerons were thrown out in
Tasmania, while S.A. and W.A. each lost a Solomon.
The manuscript book of an eloquent
Senator got into the hands of the curious lately,
and they delight to tell how he has speeches
headed “impromptu” written out for occasions
expected to occur within the next month or two,
also smart retorts ready for jokes that he already
sees looming in the distance. The far-seeing man,
who can foretell the probable joke of next month,
has a big advantage in politics.
THE ONLY VAGANGY.
GOZZLE : “ Where do I come in!”
THE CHAUFFEUR : “ Well, yer see, I’m drivin,
an’ Sissy’s the passenger, an’ Billy’s the
engin’—you can he the smoke behind.”
There are three R.C. prelates in Aus-
tralia named Dunne, and two of them—the Bishops
of Bathurst and Wilcannia, are John Dunne. The
third is Archbishop of Brisbane, and his name is
Robert.
Pope Leo is said to have left £1,360,000
to his successor, all being represented by foreign
securities. S.M. Herald ex-editor Curnow pur-
sued a different walk of piety, and panned out for
£3753 19s.
Trustees for Sydney Cricket Ground, with,
of course, all the dignities and privileges of tlm-
position, in most cases conferred directly or in-
directly by themselves on themselves: VV. J.
Lyne, G. H. Reid. John See.
In the old days the Governors didn’t
always run to a private secretary paid for that
job only. George Stevenson, Hindmarsh’s private
sec. all the time he was in S.A., mixed it with the
editorship of S.A. Reoistkr.
The Owe’Sullivan has been in a private
hospital for some weeks. A growth on the tongue
had to be removed. The Minister bore the opera-
tion with great fortitude, refusing to take an
anaesthetic. He is now progressing well.
“ Burwood ” : Think I remember that the
late Dan. Cooper got his first daub for giving
£lOOO and promising an annual subscription to the
Crimean war fund. As The Bulletin says, it
certainly wasn’t for anything done for Australia.
Speaker Holder’s unopposed return for
the Reps, gave him the chance to prepare ser-
mons instead of election speeches. He put in the
last few days before the elections carrying through
the anniversary services at a Ballarat Methodist
tabernacle.
A. certain Queensland politician is reputed
to have once fallen in heavily over a take-down
game of poker. There was a put-up game wherein
the victim was to get three aces and bet heavily,
and another man was to get a full hand and
gather in the spoil to be afterwards divided. But
after big betting all round, bauds were shown and
the victim produced four aces and collected over
£2OO. How the fourth ace got into his hand is to
this day a myster *.
Julius Caesar advertises in a recent S.M.
Herald that he will not be responsible for any
debts contracted in his name. About 1950 years
ago Julius declared his wife must be above sus-
picion, and apparently he is still struggling to live
up to the theory.
The little Bendigo sect of “ Flitterers,”
which lately knooked off work and decided not to
live in houses any more, finds that it isn’t as
healthy as regular meals and a camp out of the
wet. Mrs. Flitterer lately died in a Vic. hospital
of typhoid fever.
The Marquis of Normanby, son of an ex-
Governor of three Australasian States, is in the
church, and has recently married money. The
title carried so little coin, that the present holder,
who is 57 years of age, had to turn Mulgrave
Castle into a boarding-school.
Adelaide has its athletic parson in C. E.
Doudney, who is one of the finest rifle shots in
the State, plays cricket and tennis well (especially
tennis), and is the best rowing coach procurable
in the holy city. His work is with old Dean
Marryat at fashionable Christ Church.
When the Rev. mystery, the Count Vay de
Vaya, was in Australia he was credited with being
that rare bird, a oleric without a collection plate.
But in Maoriland, it seems, he did get on the
collecting game, and bagged £l6O for an orphan-
age in Eastern Corea, of all places in the world !
Nicholas Willis, M.P., complained, at
a Federal dinner the other night, of the “ poor
character ” of the Protectionist candidates put up
in N.S.W.; and he was promptly reminded that,
at any rate, the Protectionist organisation would
not swallow the candidate he recommended to
it—Eden George.
The death is announced of Sir E. S. Dawes,
head of the firm of Gray, Dawes and Co., of
London. The name is an old one in commercial
Sydney. Sixty-three years ago Stuart Alexander
Donaldson, afterwards Premier, was in partner-
ship with William Dawes under the stylo of
Donaldson and Dawes.
“Ku-Klux”: Explorations to discover a
Melbourne pub. where the price of beer has not
been raised led me to the following discoveries.
South of the Yarra (in different suburbs) are pubs,
kept by men named Beer, Brew, Glass, and
Brewin; north side by Drinkwater, Beverago,
and Drought. Am still exploring and expect to
make further discoveries.
“Cockney”: Re par (8., 8/10/’O3). F.
C. Burnand, of London Ponoh, tried to study for
thoR.C. priest-
hood at Bays-
water, London,
under Mon-
signor (after-
wards Cardi-
nal) Manning,
who was chief
of a com-
munity culled
the Oblates of
St. Charles
Borromeo.
The Oblates
were all, or
nearly all,
’verts from
Anglicanism,
and some of
them had been
C.E. parsons.
One of them
was Father
Cook, brother
of Dutton
Cook, the
author and
dramatic critic.
Burnand, at
first, thought
he had a voca-
tion to the
R.C. Ministry,
but one morn-
ing he came
down to break-
fast in a deaf-
ening check
suit, and told
Manning ‘ lie
had found he
had no voca-
tion, and was
going to leave.
“You are taking the wisest course, Mr. Burnand,”
said Dr. M. “Better to be a good shoemaker than
a bad priest.” “Quite so,” said F.C., “ and there
would be more sole in it, Doctor, wouldn’t there?
So Burnand ceased to be an Oblate.
“D.”: A Sydney laundress has three
cards in her window appointing her washerwoman
to three successive Governors. But she doesn't
know how to use her opportunity. In her place
my sign would read : “The nobility and jieeruge
of Sydney is respectfully informed that by sending
its wash here it can have its shirt hung on the
same line as his Excellency's. No other estab-
lishment offers such advantages.”
Brother “ Bob ” Best got a great sectarian
reception when he rose to speak at an Orange
Lodge supper in Melbourne after the Senate poll
numbers were up. The assembled Oranges
“waved their serviettes and hurrahed” for
several secpnds. Do they have yellow serviettes
at these L.O.L. gatherings?
On the Friday morning after the elections,
when Trenwith’s score stood at 90,000 odd, 10,000
ahead of the next best, a postcard was delivered
at the Age office addressed “W. A. Trenwith,
care of D. Syme, Age Office, Melbourne.” The
sender congratulated Mr. Trenwith, per medium
of Mr. Syme, on his great victory.
Squatter Angas of S.A. has given £lO,OOO
for the Christianising of Papua. Angas is now
80, and probably reckons that to Christianise
Papua will be a pleasing thing to Providence. A
more humble and reverend spirit might suggest
that Providence knew best what religion is good
for Papua, and provided that religion.
Sydney Alderman J. D. Fitzgerald has
cut short a trip through Japan because of per-
sistent police shadowing. J.D.F.—probably on
account of his fierce and desperate expression—
was taken for a Russian spy and dogged relent-
lessly on his trips. This proved so irksome that
he took the first steamer back to Sydney.
R. M. Bowles, the Freetrader who fell
before Labor at Newcastle (N.S.W.) is a man of
many diverse pursuits. He is a Congregational
parson, a teacher of typewriting, keeps an office
for tlie teaching of shorthand, and gives liook-
keeping lessons at the local Technical College.
Also he finds time to be a Scotchman agod 50.
Crosby Gilmore, M.H.A., probably the
wordiest lawyer in Tasmanian politics, has one
cherished distinction. When ho tripped through
America in 1881 he dined with Longfellow.
Longfellow, in a patronising mood, shovelled out
some aphorisms, which Crosby eagerly picked up
and diaried. Hu quotes them stilj, with pride.
“ Molb.” digs up an old memory :
A Jay or two ago I was at Harwood’s old place,
Montreux, near Kew. To my mind, it is the nicest little
patch anywhere about. Harwood had socurud about an
acre, on a slope towards the north, with the moat
delicious view imaginable, in Melbourne environs, right
over the country to Heidelberg. The one-storey villa is
a perfect ideal, with its coachhouse, garden and lawn.
Such was the haven of the saving comedian, hurst, up by
the Boom smash. Here, on Sundays, he entertained tho
Broughs, Stewarts, Coppins, Grevllles, and ull the nicest
people.
A well-known Victorian city magnate and
station owner, who believed be had a thorough
knowledge of stook, on one occasion, when some
of his own sheep wore being drafted in bis pre-
sence, told the manager to get rid of them at
onoe, as they (the sheep) “weretooold when they
lost their top front teeth.” As a remedy for foot-
rot, he suggested “tin boots” filled with n. solu-
tion of his own prescription. The solos of the
front boots were to lie made thinner than the
hind ones, in order that they “ wouldn’t interfere
with the sheep when feeding.” And he actually
got quotations from several firms for the supply
of sheep boots. Also, he ordered said manager
to run all the cattle (about 1000) round every
morning to see if any had pleuro. Any that
coughed were to be isolated and treated according
to his instructions.
“ C.C." writes :
The members of the Tasmanian Leg. Council may be
only a job lot mentally, but there can he no doubt that,
physically, they would take a lot of beating. I know
most of them, and, although I would not hesitate to “ put
’em up ” to most men old enough to be my grandfather,
I wouldn’t care to enter the House of Dodery to look
for fight. Have a pleasant, though deafening, recollec-
tion of a night spent, after closing time, in a Hobart bar,
where two giddy cadets of the House of Dodery, whoss
combined ages were over 150 years, provided most of the
merriment. They wound-up some time in tho morning
by singing a duet, entitled “ We Never Went Astray,
with a wild fandango after each verse, and they were not
half so dodery on their ping as some of the tired youth
who looked in to see what the row was about. There
is some vivifying essence afloat in the Tas. Upper House
that appears"to grant perpetual youth to its inmates, and
when “ Alfy ” Page and the Hon. William Dodery are
seen frisking along arm-in-arm, the local undertakers
shed tears.
A Sydney paper retails a “ delightful little
incident” concerning G. H. Reid. When the
colonial Premiers went to assist at the Diamond
Jubilations, Gladstone invited them to Hawarden.
This scene occurred in the garden there :
The owner of Hawarden noticed that Mr. Reid, of all
the party in the open air, continued walking with his hat
off. He carried his light head-gear in his hand. Mr.
Gladstone, turning to the Australian politician, said,
“Will you not cover, Mr. Reid?’’ But Mr. Reid, hesi-
tating momentarily, replied in a voice just above a
whisper, vet within the hearing of some of the party,
•• Not in your presence, sir.” How that reply must have
impressed the grand old man, and how it indicated the
intense regard, amounting almost to reverence, which
Mr. Reid entertained for England's great statesman. Mr.
Reid paid a great tribute to Gladstone in that memorable
moment.
But bow much greater the tribute would have
been if Reid bad put his hat firmly on bis head
and gone straight away and imitated Gladstone
by abolishing all his Protective duties. There is
far more sincere flattery in imitation than in
offer tig a view of your naked head with a fly
standing on it.
DR, MALONEY , the Democrat who came within
on [?] of wi[?] out Malcolm M'Enchant,
at Melbourne,
Photo, by Johnatone O'Shanneeay [?] Co., Melbourne.
Hilly Maloney, tlm lit!lu doctor who mado
.such a good fight against Money M’Kaeharn -he
was beaten by 77 votes—for the Melbourne seat
in the House of Reps., is a remarkable little man.
lie is barely over sft. in height, but lias an enor-
mous chest measure. The latter ho needs to
aocommodate his big heart. His wife lias la-on
heard to say that she has to make frequent changes
in their address to escape from the army of beggars
and pensioners that the “little doctor” collects
around him. Malonoy has boon bank clerk, ship’s
doctor and art student. At one time ho contem-
plated an art career, and while in London studying
medicine ho dabbled with brush and pen. He
has a remarkable memory, and can perform some
of the feats which used to startle Inaudi’s
audiences. Ho can memorise two lines of 31
figures each, and add or subtract them with ease.
Maloney will try to upset the Melbourne elec-
tion on the ground of undue influence and irregu-
larities in the polling booths, also charges of
straight-out bribery are mentioned.
Re one John Jones :
Modern Athens (otherwise Gawler) has a resident who
begun life with a millstone round ids neck. He was born
Jones, and his dad crowned the indignity by christening
him John. Hu left Knglnnd intending to come direct to
Adelaide, but the agents for tho boat and the captain
didn’t make any definite arrangements, and, John not
being consulted, they landed him at Sydney. But it
apparently made little difference, and J.J. stayed in
N.S.W. for seven years, and then drove overland to
Adelaide, taking 10 weeks on tho trip. He is chiefly
famed in his town for having lived 88 years “with a name
like that,” and for being instrumental in establishing two
churches and introducing Arbor Day to Pawler, and for
being its Mayor once upon a time.
Alexander Gordon, “Q.C., ' called to tho
Bar in 1841, and recently dead in England, prac-
tised half a century ago in the Equity Court at
Sydney. He was also esteemed as an ecclesiastical
lawyer, and was for many years Chancellor of tho
diocese of Sydney. Mr. Gordon was close on 90
at his death. A son (Alexander) leads in the
Bankruptcy Court, Sydney.
An almost forgotten figure in Austra-
lian life has just passed away at the age of 84
years. G. W. Itusdon was tho son of a clergyman,
and came to N.S.W. with his family in 1834. He
was engaged in sheep-farming until 1849, when ho
was appointed ngent for the national schools in
Port Phillip, and afterwards in N.S.W. and at
Moreton Bav. When Port Phillip was separated
from N.S.W. he became Under-Secretary in the
Colonial Secretary’s Office ; next lie was clerk to
the Executive Council, and finally clerk of the
Legislative Council, and clerk of tho Parliaments,
from which position he retired in 1882 on a pension
of £5OO a year. Ife was the originator of the Shale-
speare scholarship in connection with tho Melb.
University. At the Sliaks|Kjarian centenary
oelebration in 1804 the admirers of the poet were
divided as to the maimer in which he should be
commemorated. Harry Sullivan and James Smith
led a section favorable to a statue. This got so
far that a plaster model was made by Summers
and unveiled in front of the Public Library by
Sullivan. It got no further. Itusdon headed the
scholarship crowd, and succeeded, ftusden was
the author of numerous works on Australasian
history, one of which got him into very bad
trouble with John Bryce, of Maoriland. Br < a
sued for liliel atid got £3500 damages.
TO
WOMEN
Every woman’s health depends
upon her blood—its richness and its
regularity. Sometimes it is hard to
believe that nearly all common
diseases spring from the blood, no
matter how different they may seem.
It is hard, for instance, to realise that
rheumatism and indigestion are l>oth caused by had blood. But
there can be no doubt in the case of the s< eret troubles of a woman s
life from fifteen to fifty. The blood is plainly the cause of all her
health. Then con.e the sig .s of secret
headaches backaches and sideaches ; the pale cheeks and dull eyes ,
thefidbng appetite and irritable norv«.; the hnteri. «nd b.hou.-
ness the and languor ; the distress and despondency and
all the wearv wretched feelings that attack womenmu their tunes of
ill health And the blood is to blame for it all. \\ lien the blood
1“ beaitn. * i there is little trouble m the life of maid
Thatt Tv DV wTlliams’ Pink Pills for Pale People
amTorth thS weight m gold to women. They actually make new
Every dose sends galloping through the veins pure strong
• i a \ tlvit strikes striucrlit at tli? cuise of all s crot ill
health* The new blood restores regularity and braces all the special
health. itw ne va [n thig way Dr Williams’ Pink Pi Is
organs o d headaches, sharpen the appetite and the
»d bring buck .be ruddy glow of Wtb.
Dr. Williams’ Pink l’illa for Palo
People have done this for Mina K.
Roughley, 422 Jones-street, Ultimo,
Sydney—and they can do the same for
every growing girl and ailing woman.
"When I was 13,” says Miss Rough ley,
“mv whole health began to break down.
I grew pale, thin and dull-eyed. I couldn’t eat and couldn’t sleep.
After tossing restleasly about at night, I got up next morning as
shaky as a leaf. I wasn't a bit of good in the house for I couldn’t
lift a broom. My head and back ached as if they would never stop.
My nerves were so unstrung that I always felt as if something
dreadful were going to happen. At last I went into the hospital,
but I got no better. Then I tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People—for I heard that they actually vuidt new blood.
After two or three boxes my appetite l>egan to pick up and I felt
ever so much better. The color came back to my lips and cheeks,
and everyone remarked how much brighter I looked. I kept right
on with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills and soon iny headaches and back
aches stopped. Every muscle in my body seemed to get fresh
strength. I could feel the new blood tingling in my veins, and it
cured all my irregularities. I slept well, ate well, and felt strong
and energetic for my house-work. And, best of all, Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills cured me for good—for I have never had any ill-health
since. ’
THE
PROOF
Dr. W iliams’ Med'cine Co., Ou en’s Place,
Price —2s. 9d. a box ; six boxes, 15s. 3d., post free.
I
%


Aboriginalities.
BILL MAYNE’S STRATEGEM.
[For Thb Bulletin.]
Our tucker-bags were empty, and our stomachs just the
same,
When we reached a Barcoo station in the West,
Where a darkie chap was cooking—“ Yankee Tommy ’’
was his name—
Who was hated hy the swaggies like a pest;
For never had he given sup or fill or snack or bite
To a footman or a horseman calling there ;
But, in answer to a whisper for a feed, would threaten
fight,
And paint bright blue with blasphemy the air 1
“It is plain we must get tucker, get it any way we can,
For it’s eighteen hungry miles to Mulgadown,”
Said Bill Mayne, my mate in trouble ; “ and I think I
know a plan
How to work a point on Ham and do him brown.
It will show him that Australians know a thing or two or
three,
Though they’re humping swag along the dry Barcoo.”
And in hushed and wily whisper William then explained
to me
Exactly what he wanted me to do.
‘ You go up and strike the darkie," whispered William,
“Jfor a bite
Of bread and meat and other things as well,
And when he starts performing, you just challenge him
to fight,
And keep him busy sparring till I yell.
Mind he doesn’t get too near you, hold your distance,”
cautioned Mayne,
“ And keep his back towards the kitchen, see ?
Till I—never mind what I’ll do —till I coo-ee on the plain,
Then give the nigger best and follow me.”
Well, I reckoned on the whole that the job had to be done,
So I faced the black and irritable coon ;
And frankly and at length did I tell that nigger’s son
That he was a blot.upon the face of noon.
And as he charged, the very mildest thing he said was
“ Damn!”
The worst thing that he said I won’t repeat;
And for half-an-hour or more I was mostly dodging Ham,
And fought a losing battle with my feet.
I was getting very anxious when, at last, amidst the din
Of battle I could hear a faint “ Coo-ee 1 ”
And without a moment’s notice I exclaimed : “ Cook, IT]
give in 1
I can see that you are much too good for me ! ”
“ Waal, orlright then, take yer bundle an’ yer carcase
outer this;
And never cadge fer tucker here again.”
The dusky victor snorted with a grin upon his phiz.,
And I did, and followed Bill across the plain.
Well, you hardly can imagine my surprise when I found
Bill
A-camping close to water and dry wood.
Seven miles beyond the station at the bottom of a hill,
And surrounded by enormous wealth of food !
Loaves of new-made bread and brownie ; sugar in galore
and tea,
And a hot and juicy, appetising joint.
He had sneaked into the kitchen while I fought the cook,
you see,
And on our brother Ham had scored a point 1
% x 8.
A QUESTION OF AUDIT.
CHEMIST (to crushed assistant): “ Why, when I
was 18 I managed my boss's shop by myself,
and I took over £36 per week; and I had a
business of my own at 21.”
ASSISTANT: “ That would naturally follow. But
didn't he miss the money?”
“0.K.”: Wandering midst the solitudes
of Flinders (Vic.), a marine village with a scattered
resident population of 120 persons, I met a joke—
a motley joke. It was an announcement, written
on half a sheet of notepaper, pasted against the
window of an alleged ‘ ‘ general store ”: —
Wanted, the miserable Thief who stole 3 cabbages
from my garden to dine with me on Sunday.
The aged hermit of the store had either borrowed
his wheeze from the comic columns of a country
journal or composed it on his lonesome own. I
couldn’t see him anywhere about. The district
seemingly was deserted, except by me and six
dreamy cows on the grassy highway. I contem-
plated the joke at the window until the pathos of
it touched my soul. Poor little joke ! Staring
out on to the wilderness and craving the sym-
pathy of a world that wags in the dim distance.
* * * *
“ Bunny ” : The first fierce foretastes of a
sizzling summer have recently struck Broken
Hill. A favorite house-costume for languid ladies
is a sash-cinctured nightdress. Why a sash? Well,
really I do not know—not having been game to ask
the reason. The young bird season is in on the
Barrier. A State school boy, asked why he had
been late two mornings in succession, said:
“ Please sa, I wiz kept to cut tup meat for the
young maggies an’ ta chew wup bread for the
littul cockatoos an’ par ruts.”
* * * *
A boy of 14 at Truro (S.A.) driving a
three-horse roller, the other day, was jerked off,
and landed on his back on the ground with the
heavy machine resting on one of his legs. Hold-
ing on to the reins, hs undid the traces of the
nearest horse, got the swingletree loose, and with
it levered the roller off his leg. Then he dragged
himself to the nearest horse, unharnessed it, and,
scrambling somehow on to its back, rode to the
hospital, where he was found to have several
bones broken !
* * * *
‘ ‘ Periwinkle ” in a frivolous mood :
Re “Polstan’s” query (8., 3/12/’O3) —recipe to “fix"
damper—a dish of necessity rather than choice ! Light
your camp-fire on a rock, or hard, even ground, three-
quarters of an hour before you unpack your flour. This
done, measure out five pannikins of the needful into
your billy, and add five pinches of salt. Paw the flour
well to distribute the salt evenly (wash your paws first),
then add water to make a dry dough. Knead well with
the knuckles. Pat out into a pancake shape, about half-
an-inch thick, on the nearest even-topped stump. Clear
away your camp fire a yard to windward, and dump the
dough on the hot earth where the fire was. Turn when
the bottom is brown, lift when the other side is ditto—
and eat hot. That is the way Boomerang Bill—chef
amongst the Overlanders when the kangaroo nibbled tus-
socks on the present site of Tub Bulletin offices—made
damper. Celery Bill, who rides a bike to the sheds,
makes damper thus, when he can’t cadge something for
his stomach : Half a bag of self-raising flour, skim milk
to make a dough, cook the mass in the camp frying-pan
till it rises in due ratio to the fall of shearers’ earnings
since the drought days, and eat till you burst. Throw
balance at gohanna—dogs won’t eat it! Can any
Bulletin gourmet tell me how to cook bandicoot—not
“ stoo ” —to resemble chicken ?
« * * *
“Ny”: Crows are not cunning—only
suspicious ! When a boy I used to snare them by
the score round the slaughter-yards, on Grange
Creek, Hamilton (Vic.), to sell to the Chows at
4d. apiece. The Chows used to split them open—
feathers, entrails, and all—dry, and pack them for
transmission (so tradition said) to China. My
plan. I cut a piece of fresh gristle into pieces the
size of dice. Fixed them, without touching with
fingers, to pieces of fishing gut, then fixed loops
of gut to splinters on the top-rail of yard fence.
Glossy-cloak takes the gristle—catch him, wring
his neck, and claim 4d. blood-money !
* * * *
It isn’t only the travelling judge who
wears much frill when out-back. Some of the
inspectors of post-holes, and cow-brands, and
things of that sort can lay-over even the
frilliest of the Judges. One of them, at a
small bush pub., began impressing the
township by bullying the groom. Then
he complained about the damper, mutton
and jam at tea-time, rang the bell after-
wards for the girl to move his chair to the
fire, and in the morning he complained
about the sheets on the bed being too
narrow, and left instructions for things to
be altered next night. There weren’t any
wider sheets on hand, so the maid tried
to keep them on by pinning them all round.
But that night a dust storm sprang up, and
the dust-laden hessian out of which the
ceiling was made burst, and the noise of the
inspector of post-holes roaring in the dark-
ness and trying to extricate himself from
the pins and calico awoke the next town-
ship.
* * • •
There is a woman knocking about the
North, between Townsville and Geraldton, whose
bush-name is “Annie Bags.” She carries her
swag, travels barefooted, dresses like a gin, and,
like her black sisters, is accompanied by a tribe of
dogs. It is alleged that she receives remittances
from England ; also, it is said she comes of a good
family, is well educated, and is, or was, a brilliant
pianist.
• * • •
From “Hiphen” (more weird expectancy) :
I have read with astonishment remarks in The Bulletin
to the effect that the “ weird expectancy of the American
forest ”is shared by the Australian bush. Surely this is
not so? To my mind our bush is the very antithesis of all
that expresses futurity or expectancy. It brings home to
me everything that is old-time and prehistoric. It is
asleep always—dreaming in the past. Who can connect
gaunt gums and fire-scarred scrub with futurity ? I have
seen by the Gippsland Lakes forests of blackened tree-
fern, with kangaroo (the most prehistoric and least
evolved mammal extant) in herds among the sun-scorched
bracken, which appeared theatrically primaeval—a living
record of a dead past. Surely there can be no expectant
note in the greyness, the twilight, the hopelessness
(which an Australian must know and revere before he can
be Australian) ? No! there is no expectancy—weird or
otherwise—in our bush ; but if, perchance, i have read
my lesson wrong and it is there, it is that of one very
very weary who, helplessly, awaits the end, and expects
decent burial.
“H.S.R.” writes:
“Old Cove” (8., 3/12/’O3) takes exception
to my query (8., 12/li/’O3) as to any pastoral-
ists who are paying more than 15s. per week.
He says: “No man within 50 miles of
Bingara works for less than £1 per week.”
Now, 75 per cent, of the men on stations
within 50 miles of Bingara work for 15s.
or less. If “Old Cove” gave the name of
his holding I could easily find out whether
he is one of the exceptions. It is quite
easy to write and say “ I never pay less than
£l.” How many men does he employ, and
for how long? I know that overseers on
sheep stations and head stockmen on cattle
get £l, or perhaps more, or at least used to
till quite lately, but the general rank-and-file
of men employed on stations certainly do not.
And, what is more, very few men make £1
per week clear at the heaviest kinds of con-
tract-work, such as fencing and ringing, at
present prices. I will allow “ Old Cove ” from
the Pacific Coast to Mungindi, along the
Queensland border, and 100 miles south of it,
and he cannot find 25 per cent, of workers
getting £1 per week. The wages here (about
Emmaville) are £36 per year on stations, and
even now, at shearing, £1 per week is top
price for rouseabouts. Of course, the pas-
toralists are princes compared to the selector,
and I allow that the wage given is, perhaps,
as much as the circumstances justify.
* * * *
“ Nymsie" : Can any Bulletin
reader tell me how long shell-parrots
(commonly “love-birds”) live in con-
finement ? Have had several pairs for
five years now. They nest and lay eggs
in a piece of hollow branch I have fixed
in their cage, but the young ones do
not survive. Also, what is the greatest age the
cockatoo (yellow-crested) has been known to
reach ? I knew of one which had put 32 years over
its poll.
* * * *
“ A.K.C.” on the subject of Murray ling
(“J.C.” in 8., 3/12/’O3): —
A more delicious fish than cat-fish would be difficult to
find, in or out of the Murray. I know several fishermen
who religiously save them (alive, in wire-netting cages)
till sent for by regular customers who know a good thing
when they see it. Their looks are certainly against them.
Whiskers do not become a fish. But, as to their skin
being poisonous, one might as well say that cow-hide’s
poisonous because it isn’t swallowed with the beef it
encases. There certainly is a lot in imagination, even a
“ muddy lagoony smell ” (to quote “ J.C.”).
* * * *
*‘ F.E.P. W.” : Re prickly-pear as a thirst-
quencher (B. 3/12/ 03). It is well-enough known
amongst bushmen, and a travelling chemist in
the north-west (N.S.W.) used to man'ifacture a
salve from the fruit mixed with some chemicals,
which was a good cure for horses’ sort backs.
AN IRISH WHISPER.
O’ROUKKE : “ Injooce ’im to he impudent to yer,
just for the love of it.”
“ War E.” : Mention of rabbit biting (B.
3/12/’O3) reminds me that the wild variety can
bite, and hard, too. Let “C.C.” get a rabbit in
a log, annoy him, and then attempt to pull him
out by the head, and “ C.C.” will know that for his
size bunny can bite about as hard as any beast on
earth.
A BACKSLIDER.
MAGGIE (to new acquaintance): “ What! YOU
eating pork! ”
“ Tag ” : All timbers increase in length
by annual growth on the top only. In saplings
the lowest limbs are invariably dead and tall off
as others grow on the top. Trees grow in girth on
the outside. Surveyors’ marks reopened after
being 50 years overgrown are not found to be
above the usual height of the axeman ; and wire
fences run into green trees are not disturbed.
The fork of a tree, where the limbs stand fairly
upright, does grow higher by the limbs growing
towards eacli other ; the under side also grows
nearer to the ground. Some of the endogens don’t
swell in girth—examples, the cabbage-tree, fern
and some bamboos. I have grown the cabbage-
tree 80 feet in height and almost the same girth
from bottom to top.
* * * *
“ Rita Sunyasee ” discourseth in a general
way:
The so-called cynicism of the late lamented M‘Cooey
and “ Scotty the Wrinkler” was an inherited taint of
their environment. The Australian bush is typically harsh
in every aspect- Sit on the banks of the Murray at
dawn, fishing, and in the greyness hear
the rasping sounds of bush-life awaking!
First the kookaburra’s mocking
cacchinations ; then the white
cockatoo’s screechings afar;
followed by the pee-
wit’s piercing trem-
olo. Then the
harsh purr of
the cat - bird,
and the
q u i v e r y,
quakery,
husky call of
the wagtail!
As the day
warms hear the
harsh sounds of
insect life and
even the solitude is
harshness itself.
The note of the bush
is one of hopeless-
ness ; its inherent
slothfulness enters
one’s soul, and the
dregs breed harshness.
Once a fossicker has
found a speck, the
longing o’ercomes him,
in his spells of idleness,
to go forth to scratch for
a fortune, when the
stomach rumbles with
hunger; but the nomads
of the wallaby-ways never
feel like that—when there
is a crust available.
Under their seeming
harshness there
is a kindly trait,
often only ob-
servable to their
familiars, how
ever, and the
bush - Bohemian
is never a mean
man—in his old
age, at least.
Regarding his
failings—these are
all he has left for
us to identify him by, and
they are truly his own, and
they concern only him-
self. Regarding hyda-
tids—what bushman
hasn’t got ’em, how-
ever strong and long
his samplings of the
various microbe-
killers of malt
variety ? Dogs and cats may have something to do with
this curse of the Australian bush ; but all the way-bac
swamps, lagoons, billabongs, tanks and rivers teem wit
bacteria, more or less fatal to man, for which stoca,
native fauna and duststorms may be blamed, r -
sonally, I can picture no existence more idealistic tn
that of the swagman or swagwoman, but unfortunately
isn’t considered fashionable or respectable ! Yew 11 1
Bohemian would only keep himself clean (no excuse
dust-baths now the drought has broken), and boil n
drinking-water, methinks there is yet hope tor i
realisation of my dream of a summer mia-mia capital
the Commonwealth, and a swag-Government running t
affairs of the country, with its feet dangling in the wa
and its eye on the worm at the end of its fishing line.
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
For the Summer Season
The innumerable visitors who have stayed at
“ The Australia ” during Summer months, have
nothing but praise for this famous Hotel.
Ladies with families obtain every comfort and
attention at a very reasonable cost. The rooms,
furniture and appointments of “ The Australia”
are unsurpassable. The general coolness and
airiness of the building are remarked by every-
one.
The winter garden is very popular with guests
and their friends.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
66
L
H
K
S
V
w
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
3XI- per Half-dozen, free bp 2>ont throuphout
A-uatviilid.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
Vice-Regal
Jewellers.
h
a
ft
/ 13 Hunter Street, Sydney;
H 8 Queen Street, Brisbane
(And at London).
NEW GOODS for the NEW YEAR
Including 1 Date Brooches in large variety.
Hardy Brothers' 1904 CATALOGUE shows
New Designs in all branches of their business;
INEXPENSIVE BROOCHES being
freely illustrated as well as the
CHOICEST DIAMOND ORNAMENTS.
,- ' ‘ V ,,- ,
6%! ;, ...
’_ ” / Q 4’5
(If) '1' Eve] 'r"
0'“. f; “'2 3°- .;
. , ‘0 .
\ A ’9’?
'J
CATALOGUES will be sent POST FREE to any addr
the Commonwealth.
Pearl Set Date Brooch,
42/-
All Gold, 26/-.


“ Petramos ” ; It is a terrible thing fo?
the residents when a bobby is not a
power in the district. Where I live,
the local blue has been led astray
by divers persons—women of incon-
sequential character who rent a house
on his beat, and men who give away
free beers. More than once this
keeper of law-’n’-order has been in
bed whilst on duty, in a manner of
speaking, and the boylets, likewise
the manlets, of the district have him
under their thumbs. The other
night some beer inside the local Sun-
day-school superintendent was striv-
ing to get itself home to bed when
the cop. appeared. He was at his
post for a wonder and arrested the
sup. and marched him station wards.
“Loo’ ’ere, thish thingsh gone too
far, ” said the drunk; but the cop.
hauled him on. “ Jush you drop it,
me man,” said the sup. without avail.
Then he resigned himself to Fate.
“Orl right, orl right,” he said,
“ what about Kitty Lonlegsh ? Oh,
yer sly ole dog. ’Ow long since yer
saw thish street at night time, my
boy? You just wait till I see the
inshpector and I’ll tell him a few little
tales.” Then the cop. pondered deeply
for a moment and absently dropped the
Sunday - school man in the muddy
gutter and deserted him. Now no one
is afraid of the consequences of getting drunk,
and even small boys break windows, and their
big brothers create disturbances with impunity.
TWO TREES.
[For Thb Bulletin ]
Beside the chain-road they do grieve and sigh,
And ever tell
The farer with the swag who passes by
Their tale so well.
Between them, where the slip-rails used to be,
A space is brown;
They speak of it—of hands they used to see
The rails let down.
Towards the ruined makeshift, once a home,
They point—afraid ;
For ghosts of little bush-babes haply roam
Beneath their shade.
Sold out, the planter left them groping there,
All ill at ease ;
The man of opulence was asked to spare
Two remnant trees.
vie. Will Jarratt.
* * * *
“ H.P.” from Maoriland :—
A native died in the thereabouts of Cabbage Bay
(Auckland), and it was desired to remove what was left to
Paparoha, a few miles away. The corpse was placed on a
litter and four mounted Maoris took each a corner. They
started off at a helter-skelter pace, followed by a yell"-
ing band of mourners. One of the horses became
restive and threw his rider into the mud, and the deceased
HASTE BEFORE DIGNITY.
“ Hi, Mister ! That ain't the way to git off a sulkg."
rolled on top of him with a dull, thickening sud
and danced a skull dance on his chest. Amid
shrieks of laughter and loud cheers for the corpse
the live one was extricated. The even mg was
S!SS*SU%, TSjSZt
their hair, they sit round piled-up tables and gorge and
moan by turns, until they roll upon the ground from
excess of victuals, and sleep horribly under the table.
As soon as they awake, the performance is repeated. For
many years the Government has granted natives free
passes over the railways to attend important “ tangis,”
but legislation was passed last session blocking this
privilege. Considering the nature of the “ tangi,” it is
difficult to see any reason why it should ever have been
encouraged at the taxpayers’ expense.
THAT BIRTHRATE.
TROOTER “How many children have you?"
SELECTOR : “ Well, I thought I had 17, but the last time I run 'em in off the ranges there wuz
18. The missus says one o' them Brannigan kids got boxed along with ’em.’
“Periwinkle” : “ Kerani ” (B. 17/12/’O3)
need not have bulged his eyes in amazement at the
Argus par. anent a Gippsland schoolboy getting
a swarm of bees to settle on his waistcoat. Some
people can handle bees with impunity—especially
at brooding time; others can’t! A Corop(Vio.)
young woman—Miss Spiers—has a hobby for
keeping the honey-hunters. If she hears of an
ownerless swarm of bees anywhere within
two miles of her people’s farm, she goes forth,
brushes the buzzing mass from the fence-rail, tree,
or whatever it is hanging to, with her bare hand
into her apron, and carries it home as off handedly
as if it were a brick. She has never been stung
yet. Certainly she always takes care to have tho
queen bee in her apron, but there are people who
get stung in spite of that precaution. Other
members of the Spiers family can’t go bee-ing
without being assaulted every time.
♦ ♦ * •
To Mildura from Melbourne by rail takes
22 hours. There is a stretch of 70 miles through
a sandy desert; the rest of the distance between
the Murray and Bendigo is an endless monotony
of mallee scrub, with scarcely any settlement
The trains in dry, windy weather have frequently
to stop, on aooount of the bearings heating through
fine sand particles getting in. The cookies,
when they want the train to stop, light fires
alongside‘the line. There are no stations, and
f ew set stopping- places. The train leaves Spencer-
‘l™ day, a week at 7 a.m., and gets to
Mildura at o a.m.
OPEN SESAME.—Hunyadi Janos Water is
the “open sesame” of the human organism.
Speedy, sure, and gentle, itfulfilseveryindicat.cn
in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. Indispensable to millions of
human beings all over the world.*
FOR TABLE & KITCHEN.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
SALT
»
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents
-Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name anil
addicts must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany .
Speculum: Three short, ineffective poems on
‘Dawn,” “Autumn’’and "Sunset.” Try to get out of
the rut. Write an address to a native bear G. 8.:
" Day Dream ’’ only a collection of old properties—the
" woodland ways,” the “ grassy slopes," the “ bush land,’
the “ slumbering soul.” Dash the slumbering 50u1!....
8.J.: One states (in two verses) that your girl’s eyes arc
blue ; the other (in two verses) that your boat is sailing..
W.J.A.: “ Brady ”is a good idea rather clumsily put
together....A.K.O. (Vic.): Not hopeless, but you want
to find a fresher subject. Love looks a more promising
verse-subject than cheese, but love is so hackneyed that
we would rather write about cheese....M.T.: Only
another stereotyped moaning by the sea.. ..Virginia:
Very mild scrap.... Genung: “Creeping Home’>
crept right into the basket 11. Lane: No
room for London show notices, and no use for
them if we had room Youthful: Yes; too juvenile
for publication.... Helen J. : .Morbid-minded and pru-
rient.. ..Wakka : Don’t touch them. Consult a regular
practitioner B.N.M. : Will bo returned in due course.
....Brumby: Yes; it has promise, but it is too loosely
put together...,E. F. Ryan : Go round to the makers of
lantern slides and hunt up what you want. We aren't
in the slide industry Arthur 0. : Ingeniously con-
ceived, but hardly well enough executed... .J. Nib :It is
an obvious and impudent take-down.... Ray R. :We
don’t want to “say nasty things about it,” but it isn’t
good enough for all that... .Bohemia : Well, it is on the
weak side Snakebite: “ Send along as big a cheque as
possible.” No cheque, sonny, for stuff like that
H.T. : Painfully precise and formal. . .Sheelah : We
printed something very like that about a year ago
W.A.T. : Broken-backed metre and fearsome rhymes.. .
W. M.W. : In type for publication Fosco : Three-
quarters of it are superfluous, and the remaining quarter
is dull.... Jim D. : Couldn’t make sense of it. Probably
you didn’t know what you meant yourself... .Royston :
Conventional rigmarole. Not an original idea from first
to last. ..M.M. : “Mizpah” is a weepy thing with no
evidence to support its weep Percy Bates: Would
have appreciated your letter more if it hadn’t cost so
much for insufficient postage... . Royevrus: Insuffi-
ciently-stamped tale, “ The Sargint's Logic,” to hand....
Clift W.: You “ will often send us some.” Play, don’t 1—
if it’s like the stuff to hand. Also, you sent no stamps
for return C. B. Bradley : Somemerit, but many faults.
....Vindex: You “ send a smart poem.” Well, it isn’t
smart and it isn’t a poem. It hasn’t even decent rhyme
and metre.. ..B. Mac.: Couldn’t say without seeing it....
W.M.W.: The poem you wrote on Blank’s beer falls flat.
Try Blanky’s beer next time 0.0.: “ Leaves of
Memory,” a worn-out theme, and verses rather carelessly
strung together E.C.: Some very good lines in “ Lone-
some’s Valleys,” but, on the whole, too uneven L. C.
Ware : A large batch of verse, containing nothing within
ten miles of publishable merit.... I>.E.H. : Harvest poem
has got caterpillars in it 0. Newton : Both of them
miss the bus—that empty, oft-missed bus Dune :
“ Syndicate ” very objectionable yarn. .. ..F. O.: Seddon
scored a triumph all the same. He didn’t want his own
anti-Liquor Bill passed, and he compelled the anti-Liquor
party to take the responsibility of throwing it 0ut.....
Rock Drill: Already dealt with pictorially and otherwise.
....M. Hogg: Govt. Printing Office, Sydney, Is
V.G.G.: Amy Castles is still studying in Paris, so far as
this paper knows.. ..Reader (Epping): Many thanks for
information.. ..Side Gran (or thereabouts): “He was a
Stranger ” declined. “ Shunter ” will do J.S. (Melb.):
Neither suitable. The cemetery poem seems based on
the theory that it is a shocking ana unusual catastrophe
to be dead John C.: Neither quite arrives
3.G.0.L. : “ Entreaty ” doesn’t entreat worth 4d
A. B. If : “Dead Love ” rather commonplace. Is
'“Romance” original ?... .L.L. : “ Elfin Maid” buried
with the kerosene tin of scorn over her remains
■Girondin : “Love and Forget" is a vague pounding of
the gong of sentiment with the club of nothing in parti-
cular. . ..Delo : No good Jim Ctow : Much too long in
any case M.T.M. : The alterations haven’t improved
it....Quex: Too silly for print.... Indigo :It appeared
more than a month ago... .Tintack : Couldn't do any-
thing with it W.M. : No; please don’t “send some
more similar stuff.”....D.E.F.: It hasn’t come to hand
yet Puff: A matter entirely for your own considera-
tion.... Fabius : We think it would be mere waste of
time Old Bob : Destroyed accordingly Virgil: Has
some merit, but not enough Scrummer: We know
nothing of the matter S.F.O. :It has good promise, if
age is as stated W.A.: Stamps of any State will do
D.O. : Bun Tuck’s no-license-no-grog clause may have
been “ all that could be expected from the ex-publican
Premier, with the brewing progeny shadowing him
round ” ; but that doesn’t alter the fact that it was the
logical thing that he did, and that a lot of professed
prohibitionists turned tail when they bumped against the
real thing.... R.R.L. : Like your enthusiasm, but not
your verse....Te Aroa : You’re right; they won’t scan
....T.C. : Sorry we can’t find space for all who want to
tell a girl that they love her 50....0.M.5. : Room for
four lines, anyhow :
You must be a model husband now,
And not put on much frill,
For the girls are getting readied up
With club and dumb-bell drill.
....Ishmael : Sorry belated J.D. : Not up The
Prooshan ; If Australia made the boota, it would pay
Australia even if it had to pay Brown (who is part of
itself) Is. more for its boots. Protectionists don’t say
that Protection means high prices always ; but they do
say that it is better for Australia to pay 21s. for Aus-
tralian-made boots than 20s. for boots made in Germany.
.... W.W. : Good swing, but full of impossible rhymes...
Balm Oral: Menindie B. D. and M. P. 00. tried it—and died..
R.A.F. : May make something of the verse C. :
Schnapper query referred to Mr. Jack Want, who is
taking an interest in politics again... .Phil Marah : Verse
not at all promising ; it is made up altogether of tinned
phrases—R.A.M. : If you will your body to an insti-
tution the bequest is not legal and will not necessarily be
carried out. There is no property in a dead body
Lawrence B.: Very schoolboyish... .Kerami: Fairly well
written, but the theme is hackneyed. Verse Just below
the mark....8.8.F. : “Jewellery” is still orthodox,
though the U.B. form “ jewelry ” is gaining a footing....
Shan kl in : “What are Its meiltsV’" It has only one—
there isn’t much of it!.. ..W.A.M. : “Wanderer's Re-
turn” mechanical verse without a gleam of fire or in-
spiration in it....R.D.8. : Sorry to say no mnrket for
verses about "days that have flown.”....Kangarabbit:
Your insufficiently stamped communication to hand....
Jas. E.: As you ask us at least to say “ Damn," we here-
by say “ Damn" to go on with, whlie inquiring into the
matter....G. : Regret "Trenwlth Topped the Poll"
rather too rugged Silverspray : Terribly depressed
verse. What’s wrong with the old days? Where aro
they fled ? Who’s dead ? And when the present days got
old won’t they be just as old as the old days ? Try nud take
the weeping tombstone out of your soul and brighten up..
Waihoa : If the object of the Prohibition party In seeking
to doss up places where drink Is sold is not to diminish
and ultimately get rid of the use of alcohol, then Til*
BuiiLßtin lum mis-stated the case not otherwise. And
voting as the Prohibitionists ask people to do (they ask
them to vote “ no license,” don't t hey 1) can be reason*
ably abbreviated Into “ voting Prohibition." Your argu-
ment—” We do not want to prevent people having bacon
for breakfast; wo want to prevent them having pig-sties
In the public street"—isn’t a parallel. You rather call
on the people to shut up all the bacon-shops and yet say
you don't want to restrict the use of bacon
TO ARTISTIO (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
0.J.W.: Rather too late; al«o, picture of Indy a
horrible libel,. ..S.D. : Not much good, and have n
mouldy flavor... .J.O. : May verve as suggestion....
Iloni: Not much joke and very little picture .A.P. :
Picture and gag unsuitable for two reasons. One reason
is the picture ; t’other the gag... .11,8 N. : Not quite up
....M.8.: “ Donkin ” picture well drawn, but hardly
expresses the situation. A. : You can't draw 0. Reid—
nor his d0g,... R.E. P : Picture pretty good, hut we don't
want to perpetuate that feeble bony joke.... D.B. :
" Little Mary ” good drawing, but apropos of nothing...,
Robbie : Don’t want another man on the “ Hop’s Under-
study” business O.H.R. : Faint pencil drawing ;
wouldn’t reproduce....A.W. : Cigar joke very aged..,.
A.F.M. : All too weak snd indefinite.... A.T.J. : You
send us as an original suggestion another* joke that
Photo. Btth stole from ns. Your condition is hopeless :
you don't rend Tlir. 8., and you do read P. Bits J.B. :
Spit jokes not in demand.. ..0.11. W. : The battle of
Waterloo is too remote to interest us. Can you suggest a
cartoon about the shindy of Balmain ?.. . O.A.M. : Too
hackneyed for a cartoon subject. Reminds us of the
story a Paunch artist used to tell. lie would be
awakened in the middle of the night by an excited editor:
‘Oh, I’ve got a great cartoon subject. It's about the
cricket match. You draw a lion and a kangaroo, and— "
etc., etc. ...Lobt. M.: Not wildly funny....J.0.8. :
None of the last three suitable J.A.W. : No use....
N.O R. : “Good Customer” joke has seen many Christ-
mases... .Tally : Also old J. H. Houston: There i S
considerable promise about your work, but you require
training.
AFTER THE ACCIDENT.
MORPHY : “ Whoy, man, y'oughler go in for
damages ."
KELLY: "Damages, bedad! I want no more
damages; ye can have half what I've got."
Mr. SAMUEL WORMLEY, Florin, Pa.,
writes :
“I have used Jayne's Expectorant for ASTHMA and
for SEVERE COLDS, and CANNOT UNI) WORDS
STRONG ENOUGH to recommend it."*
THE LADIES’
"Fx.&R” Watch
at £6 6s.
Is a J-plate Lever. Is jewelled in 15 holes.
Has a Ruby Roller Jewel.
Has solid heavy 14ct. gold case. .. . . . .
Has l.reunet hair spring. Has compensated and adjusted balance.
It is guaranteed for 15 years and kept in order for two years
(breakages excepted) without charge.
It will slant! hard riding and knocking about.
It is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
Ladies' {-plate
Movement!
Solid Gold Case,
£6 6s.
‘_ \
gm}; l
. "n 153- 1 ’ ;
1"“ '_;,:.v~"'”':"’\.:..9‘.-3~‘ " ‘
,3 92;, o 8' 1 :
{ﬁg 8"‘¥:';‘..____,»-;1"‘:-'4 ’13,.“ h.
ﬁﬁﬁﬁg‘“
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
WHERE TO STAY IN SYDNEY
ADAMS’ HOTEL
PITT STREET.
nBET HE AT THE HARBLE BAR.


THE BULLETIN, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1903
ON THE SYDNEY BLOCK.


NEY BLOCK.


Miiiiuiininiii!
i
3
w
s*a»
i S 5
SjSgcw
■
H
Ladies’ Solid Silver-Mounted Cut Glass Toilet Set,
in Silk-Lined Case, comprising 3 Pieces, 30s. Special \ alue.
1 i
m
S 3 I
mm
.
1
A Nicely Chased, Manicure Set, comprising 6 Useful Articles,
Pure Silver Mounted, 40s.
Other Styles, 18s, 20s, 22s 6d, 80s, 355, <ss
Ladies’ or Gent.’s Polished Morocco Writing Folio,
with Lock and Key, fitted with every convenience, 255.
| Other Btyles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 18s 6d, 20s, 22s 6d, to £3.
rest Tver-Plated, Silk-Lined, Jewel Case, beautifully carved
and embossed, 255.
Other styles, 17s 6d, 22s 6d, 30s.
Ladies’ Pure Silver First-Class Hair Brush.
Beautiful While Bristles, in Silk-Lined Case, 30a,
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 21s, 25a.
oentainingH
Travelling Cane, oonta
Boent Bottle. Beep
Other Style*.
Brush, Cloth Bruht
BQ»J
A. SAUNDERS
FOR HANDSOME AND USEFUL PRESENTS.
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather, and Optical Goods.
A. SAUNDERS. _
Ladies’ pure Solid Silver-Mounted Toilet Set, Hair Tin Holder. Scent Bottle, Pun Box,
and Pomade Box, £2 10s. Larger Size, £3los.
~' (w^' ■ -■
H ' "" / 5’.;. /fyffi,.
■ v ;
iNS ..'.v
’ / •
7 m 7
,-7#7 /' 77
''""ilL,
A, SAUNDERS. . „ _ .
Handsome Presentation Oak Liquor Combination, comprising 3 Beautiful Hobnadl (hit Glass
Bottles. S Liquor Glasses. Secret Lock Drairerfor Cards, Cimm, Cigarettes, &c., Pu.e
Silver-Plated Mounts, and Mirror Back, £7 lOs
A. BAJNNDERB. „. v . _ .
Beautifully Chased and Ornamented Wattean Pattern, 2 Solid Silver Hairbrushes Cloth,
and Hat Brush, Comb, Chared Mirror, Shoe Lift and Shoe Hook, in Handsome
Silk Lhaed Case, £l2 103. Others, same as above, embossed, *lolos, *l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS. _
Pore Silver Lartre Size Brush, Extra Long Hand Drawn Bristles, Beautifully Chased
andt>™Tn™6s «<L Other Styles, 12s 80, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Leather Roll, containing 2 Hollow Ground Razors,
Com Knife, Nail Scissors, and Tweezers, 20s, 255.
Similar, with 1 Razor, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Silver
Sewing Companion, in
Bilk-Dined Case, 18s 6d.
Smaller, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER AND OPTICIAN
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-ST.,
Opposite Hallway Ifeattaa, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Gent.'s 2 Silver Military Blushes, Cloth Brush, Hat Brush,
and Comb, Beautifully Chased, in Silk-Dined Case, £4los.
Other Styles, £5, £5 10s.
Rj
mm
mammam
ftnuuffimußriS
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Solid Silver, Nicely Chased, 2 Hairbrushes, Comb, and Mirror,
Extra Heavy, in Beautiful Silk-Dined Deather Case, £7 10s.
Similar, £5, £5 10s, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Silver Card Case, Handsomely Chased and Embossed,
in Silk-Dined Case, 255.
Without Case, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
■Ladies’ Solid Sflv. r Toilet Requisites, in Bilk-Lined Case,
Containing 2 Hairbrushes, Comb, Sboe Lift, Button Nook, and
Complete Manicure Set, £8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Well Fitted Sewing Companion,
Containing Silks, Needles, Scissors, But'on Hook,
Knife, &c„, 7s 61.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
A* DA Vrl 1/iIiXVO. At] Q n npi
Polished Oak Writing Desk. Heavy Brass Mounts, oontaining Space*
for Writing Material. Ink, also 2 Becret Drawers, 2os.
Larger, 355, 435,


The Inky Way.
“By Electrophone,” appeared over a speech for the
first time in London papers of November 4—it was Cham-
berlain’s speech at Birmingham. The recorders, con-
nected with an ordinary telephone wire, were fixed round
the platform ; in the Daily Mail office 10 reporters sat at
10 receivers, had their “ takes ” just as if they had sat in
the hall 113 miles away, and the last “ take ” was in type
within a few minutes of the end of the speech. The Mail
gives the times: —Speech started 8.10; compositor
started on first “slip” of “copy,” 8.22; received first
batch of telegraphed “copy” (sent in case the other
experiment failed), 9.23; Chamberlain finished, 10.5;
last word set into type, 10.20 ; paper on sale, 10.32 ;
last batch of telegraphed “copy” received, 11.37.
One of the reporters wrote afterwards: “The minor
rustlings and coughings of an audience were for
the most part eliminated, but their ejaculations,
their applause, their cries, came clearly through. Most
clear of all, and as loud as though he were only a hundred
inches away instead of a hundred miles, was Chamber-
lain’s voice. . . Not the muffled, attenuated voice of
telephones, enveloped in buzzings and cracklings ; it was
a voice that broke clear across the silence like silver
against black velvet.”
* • * *
Bendigo Advertiser, the oldest of the inland dailies of
Victoria, is now something over 50 years old ; its jubilee
birthday arrived on Dec. 9th. Only three of its Southern
contemporaries are older—the Argus, Herald, and
Geelong Advertiser —and none has suffered fewer
changes of owners. “Old Bob” Haverfield and A. M.
Lloyd founded the Advertiser ; the former has been dead
these 15 or 20 years, but the other is living still. They
had no capital, and after a couple of years the thing was
tottering. Angus Mackay, then Argus correspondent on
the field, took it up along with J. J. Casey (later Judge)
and “Jimmy ” Henderson. Henderson soon dropped out,
and David Stuart took Casey’s share in 1867. All the time,
however, the firm was Mackay and Co. Angus, of that
ilk, died in July, 1886. Old Dr. Nish, of the local Scots’
Church, preached the sermon at the grave—about an hour
and half of it. For a quarter of an hour or so the prosy,
learned old cleric discussed whether the man who was
dead ought to have been called “Mackee” or “Mackeye.”
Writer took it all down, with the crown of his hat for a
writing-desk. Next year Mackay's family bought out
the Stuart interest, and the whole concern has been
unadulterated Mackay ever since.
CONTEMPTUOUS CRITICS.
[For The Bulletin.]
The bard sat at his ink—
His daily ink ;
He did a heavy think—
His daily think ;
He rose up with a curse—
His daily curse.
From grinding out a verse—
His daily verse.
And what he said was this —“!!! * ?? those flies!
They’re so familiar—and so very wise—
They come and cross my ‘ t’s ’ and dot my ‘ i*s ’! ”
vie. 0.C.0.
* » * *
The latest outbreak in the field of newspaper enter-
prise is the London Harmsworths’ daily, produced exclu-
sively for women. This is, as yet, a virgin field, and the
experiment should be interesting. There’s little reason
why it shouldn’t be a success from the start. Feminine
interests and the feminine outlook are widening steadily
every day, and a daily wherein the latest hat wdl be
judiciously blended with divorce news and a good u.iy to
use up cold mutton should meet with healthy support
from both readers and advertisers. The new organ is
called the Daily Mirror, and is printed on fine art paper.
This latter is absolutely necessary for the reproduction
of the photo, of the nobility’s pet cat—the British female
appears to have a strange hankering to know what the
nobility’s pet cat is like.
* * * •
Ambrose Winterton, “author and journalist,” was
recently sentenced to three months’ gaol by an English
court for literary fraud. He had obtained from the
Literary World £1 11s. 6d. for an article which was
prigged from an old Academy. Prisoner was a victim of
the cocaine habit and, it was said, took 120 grains a day
of the drug. The plea of mental irresponsibility secured
for him a light sentence. It does not seem to be too well
know n in Australia —judging from efforts made to vic-
timise The Bulletin—that to send a cribbed story or
verse to a newspaper which pays for contributions is an
effort to obtain money on false pretences. For purposes
of prosecution it is not necessary that the effort should
succeed.
• * • •
Pathetic explanation by fortune-buffetted genius, who
does the editing and everything else on a Maoriland
news-sheet“ If the present issue of the Chronicle falls
short of its usual standard of excellence, it is owing to
the fact that circumstances necessitated a change in the
printing staff, for which no provision was made, conse-
quently the editor has had to turn-to and produce the
paper single-handed. Having been ‘ out to grass ’ for
some years, though once a fair hand at the business, he
has had a task to bring out the issue on time for delivery
to subscribers by the usual means, and any shortcomings
noticeable will doubtless be quite overlooked now this
explanation is made."
* * • •
That inveterate “ rag planter,” Joe Ivess, has launched
yet another paper in M.L., this time at Tihape, a
struggling hamlet on the northern main trunk line.
There is a paper there already, but Joe hopes to oust it.
The number of “ public educators” the natty little man
has planted has been lost count of years ago. Whenever
a new township is born the noble Joseph canters along
with his little boxful of fixings and a leading article on
“The Progress of the District,” sets up his office and his
type, and sells out soon afterwards.
* * » •
The Delta Advocate (N.Q.) is a living proof that the
old fire of Q. journalism is not yet extinct. Thus the
Delta on its critics: —“ Some anonymous, crawling
boundeis have used < heir own paltry gutter-begotten
gauge to measure cur motives, and on Saturday night
they placarded the town with an insulting notice to the
effect that we wished to depose Mr. Elliott in order to
put another in his place. Why do not these skulking,
anonymous cowards write their opinions to this paper ?
Failing sufficient intelligence to write, why do they not
call at this office with their insult? We can assure them
every satisfaction, and the liveliest five minutes they
ever experienced in the whole course of their crawlsome,
insanitary lives.”
* * * *
.J n e Strand Maoa. for July, Arthur Hill gives an
interesting account of that famous London official organ,
the London Gazette. According to Hill, the Gazette is
the oldest and the least read paper in the British Empire;
and is at once the smallest and largest paper, changing
from one sheet to a hundred as pressure of news demands.
It is the only paper whose word is law and whose
authority is accepted in the witness-box ; besides which
}? onl y paper in which certain persons are com-
pelled to advertise, and in which certain other persons,
if they wanted to, couldn’t advertise for love or money.
It yields a profit of £20,000 a year to the Government.
* * * *
Wellington (ALL.) a late-hour club has been
fashioned. Its membership mostly comprises young
pressmen, who assemble weekly (Sunday night) in an
oyster saloon, and discuss great questions -over a bunch
of watercress and some spring onions.
• * * *
Jack left the University with honors, and some of his
original brains. He tried teaching, coaching young
asses to be B.A.’s. Then he had temporary clerkships in
the civil service. After that he tried tea, and failed.
He’d been trying literature all the time, and he got
a letter of introduction to the editor of the oldest,
heaviest, and most respectable daily in Australia, whose
rule was to print nothing which might clash with the
advertising columns. It struck Jack that it would be the
easiest thing in the world to write nothing in leading
articles; but he found out. The heaviest paper also
desired only men with a University training. Jack had
that all right, and a letter of introduction as well, so the
editor decided to give him a show. He worked hard, but
his first two or three attempts were unsuccessful. Then
the Commonwealth loomed, and Jack sat up all night
and wrote an article on Federation. His ambition now—
his determination—was to write at least one leading
article for the great solid paper. He took the article
round to the editor himself. It ran like this ;
“ We believe we may safely affirm that all right-think-
iD£ Australians realise the fact that the willingness
evinced by the several peoples of the Australian colonies
to federate and become a single Commonwealth does not
arise from a wish to become less English, but from a
healthy desire to become, if possible, more Australian ;
in fact,’’ &c., &c.
The editor was pleased to see that Jack was improving.
He might possibly be able to use the article as a sub-
leader. It would require a little toning-down, but Jack
could safely leave that in his hands. Thus encouraged,
Jack took a rest, and, later on, tried again :
“ It is now four months, three weeks, and two days
since the outbreak of the war in South Africa ; and even
the most loyal and patriotic must admit that the progress
made by our armies up to date has not nearly realised
the sanguine expectations so freely expressed at the
commencement of hostilities ”
The editor wouldn’t have it at any price. It was re-
actionary. But Jack had grit, and, after awhile, he had
another shot at it:
“ As foreshadowed in a recent issue, everything seems
to point to one of two things—either a speedy termina-
tion of the war on account of the seemingly complete
demoralisation of the Boer forces opposed to General
Roberts, or a struggle to the bitter end prolonged into
months of irritating guerilla warfare. How far we are in
the right, time and the course of events alone can prove.
We leave it to our readers to ” etc.
That pleased the editor. He liked the style. Jack’s
work was beginning to show marked improvement, and
possibly, in the near future, the editor would be in a
position to offer him a place on the regular staff. But
Jack had to chuck it up. He said the strain was too
great—that he’d sooner say things for half-a-guinea a
column than say nothing for two. He’s writing now for
some democratic rag.
• • • *
What editor, holding sway in the rural realms of
inkydom, has not had frequent visits from the itinerant
inkslinger on the wallaby? A good-looking man gener-
ally, the very embodiment of the shabby genteel. Where
heslept last night is not his tale to tell, for he is on trade
intent. “A little effort that you might use,” he says.
An upward glance from the exchanges discloses the old
campaigner of last year to the local inkman’s gaze. He
takes the crumpled manuscript, traced with lead pencil
hieroglyphics, passes on a shilling, and the scribe of the
hoof-tracks touches his bald pate, bows, and seeks the
long tanglefoot with froth thick thereon 1 Rarely,
indeed, do the wandering one’s scribbles see the light of
type ; they are mostly old scraps, based on some par or
illustration noticed on a visit to the local library,
incoherent for the most part, uninteresting, and out
of date. Get the old itinerant’s tongue to wag, and you
will have yarns from the book of life, tales about his
salad days, his hopes and ambitions, his loves and losses,
his escapades, his triumphs, but never about his down-
fall. Generally there are some traces of refinement in
his character when it is looked at sideways in a strong
light. His clothes are usually the last possibility in the
way of greenery-yellowy habiliments. His hat looks
like a recently bombarded fort; he knows scraps of
Latin, and can often drink in several dead languages ;
and his habit of writing little smudgy pencil contri-
butions on venerable scraps of paper is quite incurable.
* • •
When Donald M’Donald contemplated leaving the
oountry for the metropolitan press, he first cast anxious
eyes on the Age. Chief of staff Martin at once summed
him upas a promising young man, and told David Syme
so. After an interview with the boss of the Age, David
delivered himself thus to Martin : “ I see no extraor-
dinary capacity aboot that young man. He may be
suitable for reporting ploughing matches or agricultural
shows, with which he has a good knowledge as an ama-
teur. But I couldna’ think of placing him on the
reeporting staff.” So Donald had to abandon the Age.
It was not long before he got a footing on the Argus, and
subsequent events have proved that David’s judgment
was not infallible.
THE “SUB."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The “sub.” sits in the office when
My manuscript walks in ;
He feels it with a frosty hand
And then he scrapes his chin.
He cuts it here, he prunes it there,
He boils the story down,
Until the blessed thing hangs like
Hog bristles from a crown.
I've loafed up in Darjeeling ; I
Have prowled around Maekay ;
I’ve seen the red pagodas lean
Towards old Mandalay.
The peacock-thrones, the tiger-room
Where Theebaw laughed and died,
dome fresh to mind as when we sailed
The Irawadi’s tide.
I’ve heard the gun-boats barking far
Beyond the China seas,
When junk-men faced the music in
Their quilt-like hyponjees.
I’ve met the razor-blast that blew
Out North on Labrador ;
It wasn’t half so cutting as
That small sub-editor.
There is no power in all the air,
No terror in the sky,
To match the zeal for boiling down
That boileth in his eye.
The Ganges thug-man in his pride,
His black malevolence,
Is not so gory as the sub-
Editor’s impudence.
N.S.W.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
THE WAILUG BARD!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’d rather have a single batd who’s full of fight and ale
Than half-a-score of singers white who’re always on the
wail ;
I like a bull-dog minstrel who can sing a song of Grit,
I’d sink your mis’ry-grinding bards to grind within the
Pit.
For nearly all this whining comes of courage waxen pale—
(Did Homer write a puling verse on heroes stout and
hale ?)
The world has weary cares enough to weigh on heart and
head,
Without the woes of sundry bards who ought to weep in
bed.
We all have made our blunders and we all must pay the
cost,
But only he whose pluck is gone is ever really lost,
There’s always room for fighters—in the world there’s
always war,
And your past can seldom sink you if you’ve courage at
the core.
Whatever will the women do—if men commence to cry ?
A man was meant to fight and live, or else to fight and
die ;
A singing man was meant to sing (and Song is yet divine)
But genuine song can never ring in poor degen’rate whine.
So keep your misery bottled up, and hold your wailing
down,
For scores have troubles worse than yours in ev’ry paltry
town ;
But, if your heart must weep or burst, then let it weep
alone,
And don’t get on the house-tops when you want to make
a moan.
I’d rather have a single bard who’s full of fight and ale
Than half-a-score of singers white who’re always on the
wail;
I like a bull-dog minstrel who can sing a song of Grit,
I’d sink your mis’ry-grinding bards to grind within the
Pit.
Q.
PHILANDER FLAM.
I
V
m
I
4
m
pof r
'NATURES
PLEASANT
LAXATIVE"
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE.
Everything about California
Syrup of Figs is pleasant—
taste, appearance, action, and
results* It does not gripe, irri'
tate, or incommode in any way,
but just simply and effectually
assists the organs to perform
their functions with healthful
and natural regularity, and its
use may be discontinued as
soon as the system is properly
relieved and cleansed.
Sold in Australia In two sizes, i/j 8t tilt.
Of ail Chemists.
California Fig Syrup Co., 3a Snow Hill, London.
Australia— 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
£1,000,000.
There is no doubt that if some beneficent being, witli the power to grant our requests, were to
ask U 8 to express our dearest wish and promise that it should ho realised, nine out of every ten of us
would, without hesitation, elect to become millionaires. The other one-tenth, too, would I e sorely
tempted to make a like choice, but would, probably, after severe mental conflict, conclude that a
million would be of little use without the capacity to enjoy the pleasures it would procure, and would
consequently decide that freedom from paid was the greatest boon they could ask. To tho’nine tomlis
nothing can be promised, but it is within the power of a large proportion of the remaining tenth to
realise their desire, the sufferings of most of them being caused bv
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
and a radical euro in any of these cases can speedily be assured. One and all of the disorders specified
are but the effect of the failure of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER
to efficiently perform their functions. These important organs, when acting healthily, deal with,
and remove from the system, the poisons which inflict the pain and sickness.
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion of
the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous, and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition
of the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and
let it stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust-like sediment, or if the
particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy, and no time
must be lost in adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some iess serious but
more painful illness will result.
The Liver. —ln the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or throe
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood,
converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood,
gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into
urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their
life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion,
Biliousness, Anssmia, Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected, and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that it was necessary to find a curative agent which
would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, .these organs being so immediately associated
in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and after many disappointments, the medicine
which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length discovered. Warner's Safe
Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by restoring their activity, theso vital
organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels, of the urinary and biliary poison*
the presence of which, in the system are the cause of Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia. Lumbago, Back-
ache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and General Debility. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all these disorders simply
by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the reason why cures affected by Warner’s Safe (Jure
are permanent cures.
A NEW BOOK on BREATHING.
By F. Matthias Alexander (who has imparted his new methods for 10 years in Australasia).
See Bulletin, Decembrr 17, for Full Particulars and Order Form. Only sufficient copies to be printed to
supply orders received. Urid article on “ Prevention and Cure of Consumption ” in Sydney Dailt
Teleorapii, Saturday, December 12, page 16, by the author. Address
ROYAL CHAHBERS, corner HUNTER & CASTLEREAGH STS, SYDNEY.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By uoing CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals^
m
Works: Birmingham, England.
These series
of Pens neither
l scratch nor spurt
IThey glide over
jthe roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
A.sk your Storekeeper for
assorted Sample Box.


POLITICAL
POINTS
The three “ great ” Brisbane dailies man-
aged to pick one winner in twelve tries for the
Queensland Federal elections.
Victorian Assembly negatived, by 50 to
27, a motion by M'Cutcheon, M.L.A., to insert a
clause in the Electoral Expenses Limitation Bill
providing for compulsory voting.
After all the Age's jeers at the “ Comic
Four ” nominated by the Aegds, the Age’s serious
four averaged about 78,000 votes apiece and
the “Comic Four” of the Argus about 77,500
votes apiece.
An Australian writing from Birmingham
(Eng.) says that Freetrade in England is as dead
as Julius Caesar. Chamberlain didn’t kill it, but,
having a longer nose than most Englishmen, was
the first to discover its death.
“0.L.” tells of the quaint lie that won
The Macleay (N.S. W.) to Reidism :
Here the_ farmers voted against Protection, as they
consider it is only a matter of time when their corn will
be stopped from going to Sydney if the Deakin Ministry
remains in power.
The spectacle of Minister Bent and
Premier Irvine barking at each other in the Vic.
Assembly was presented to the astonished gaze of
Kyabram last week. This visible disorganisation
inspired even the crushed Peacock with valor, and
he struck the table with a book.
“Kalgoorlie: Frazer (L.), 5782; Kirwan
(O.), 2774.” And yet three years ago Ferguson,
then of the N.S.W. Labor party, was invited over
by the goldfields Laborites, went, had a look
round, declared that with Kirwan’s press influence
the task was hopeless, and came East again.
A disappointed champion of the alleged
“Victorian Four” strove to repair his broken
heart by inserting this advertisement in the
“ Missing Friends” of the Argus:
TjtAREWELL to prosperity in Australia, through
result of one. man one vote capped by female
suffrage.
The difference in the calibre of the Federal
and the State Parliaments is telling. The Mayor
of the city of Bendigo announced, the other night,
his conversion to the idea of wholly abolishing
the State Parliaments, and dividing their work
between the Federal Parliament and local-govern-
ing bodies.
A correspondent writes picturesquely on
a large subject:—
When that pitiable young man, Posterity, gets born,
he will probably use some very vigorous and uncompli-
mentary language about his conscienceless forefathers.
In fact, life for him will consist of one long pro-
cession of blasphemies and revilings,
as between swears he perspir-
ingly shifts his vast
debt - burden from
one jaded shoul-
der to the other.
Each morning
when he
awakes, after
a few hours of
uneasy sleep,
the vast pile
of indebted,
ness reposing
on his suffer-
ing chest will
cause him to
express a fer-
vent hope that
his ancestors
are frying in
the special,
railed-0ff,2000-
degree section
of Toph e t;
and, as he la-
boriously hoists
the load over
his spine and
starts out for the
day’s graft, his re-
marks will in all
likelihood be violent.
One usually pictures
Posterity as a patient,
Hindu - like person
staggering along the
dusty Nation-track with
his head down, but he may not be that sort of person
at all. He may be a kicker; and if he is, what will
happen—besides the language? I think I know what
he would do if the gift of pre-natal vision could be
vouchsafed Posterity; be would refrain from getting
born at all. And no sane person could blame him for
refraining.
The nearest approach to black-labor
divisions in Queensland are not in the central or
north country, but in the south—Moreton and
Oxley. Moreton was the only division in which
a colored-labor Senate candidate actually led.
North and Central Queensland, which know, were
solid white.
Tom Bent is credited with one wise idea.
He threatens a 10s. gun tax, which should have a
tendency to preserve human life from the depreda-
tions of the holiday young man whose gun goes off
when least expected. With an exemption clause
in favor of professional vermin-destroyers the gun
tax should be a blessing.
Bruce Smith polled the largest majority
fora N.S.W. seat in the House of Reps., his
plurality being 11,711 votes. Last election this
honor belonged to F. E. M‘Lean, with 5648
majority. The “ way he has with the women ”is
said to account for the lofty position of the tire-
some and mostly absent Smith.
During the up-north election excitement
the Queensland Laborites had cards printed which
they hung out at their opponents’ meetings, re-
questing a good hearing for the speaker. The
result was a shocking disappointment to some
papers and Oppositionists, who couldn’t get hold
of any disorder over which to work up some
badly-needed sympathy.
At the fag end of the late lengthy session
in Maoriland all big measures were pushed
through when a dog-tired House felt its brain
whirling round through sheer weariness. Amidst
the hurly-burly, Maoriland awoke one morning
to find it had voted £15,000 towards the erection
of a statue in London to the late Queen Victoria,
and it can’t remember how the thing happened.
Signs and portents of the Victorian
general elections : Irvine has resumed practice at
the Bar; Parliament has appointed a Board to
fix wages in the dressmaking trade; and the
Government holds out the offer to some of the
dismissed railway strikers that they may come
back. With the indications supplied by the
Federal poll, Irvine sees the necessity of hedging
on his anti-labor attitude.
The National Ass overreached itself in
S.A. It it had let Batchelor and Hutchison go
in unopposed for the city districts it would proba-
bly have got one of its own candidates in for the
Senate, but the contested elections in the
metropolis brought to the poll thousands of
Liberal voters who might otherwise not have
attended, and, being there, they voted for
M‘Gregor, Guthrie, and Story.
The result of the Queensland section of
the Federal elections should finally settle the
Black Labor party. The White Australia policy
was supposed to have been “sneaked in ” at the
first election, and the anger of Queensland, deprived
of its beloved Kanaka, was to give Reid a solid
following in that State. And the anti-kanaka
party wins every seat but one, polling by
electorates, and all three seats in the Senate !
Apropos Taylor, the negro cyclist who
goes round giving his “testimony,” some of the
parsons are making fools of themselves again.
One of them, the Rev. Gainford, preaching what
the D.T. calls “an interesting sermon,” said,
after repeating the daily paper lie and slander
regarding the Petriana crew—“ Our politicians
judge men by the color of their skin, while Christ
judged them by their hearts.” And yet, when
the Australian Government does judge men by
their “ hearts ” (the Rev. Gainford means charac-
ter, no doubt), and when in consequence it shuts
out a criminal and a thief, there is a howl from
all the Gainfords of the States. The poor blind
Gainfords can’t see that their alleged Christianity
is being turned into a catspaw by office-hungry
politicians and a dishonest press.
THAT PERSON DESCRIBED AS "A
VOICE.”
LADY CANDIDATE: “I am now prepared to
answer any straightforward question which
any gentleman may ask me.”
A VOICE : “ Well, is there any charnce o’ me
seein’ yer ’ome to-night, Miss?"
W. Sandford, defeated by Pumpkin Smith
for the Macquarie seat in the House of Reps.,
made a Federal iron bonus a leading plank in his
platform. After the election Carcoar Progress
Association expressed its opinion of the situation
in the following resolution :
That, as the result of the recent Federal elections has
proved that the working classes of Carcoar, with a few
exceptions, are opposed to the establishment of the iron
industry in their midst—an industry that would have the
effect of giving permanent employment—and as the
association, which exists almost solely for the purpose of
agitating for the benefit of the working classes, strongly
favors the establishment of the industry, the members of
the association, seeing their ideas are not in sympathy
with the class they desire to assist, decide to immediately
disband, and thus give the so-called workers an oppor-
tunity of finding work for themselves—provided they
want work, which this association doubts very much.
You can’t ma'ke
some Flyspeck peo-
ple wilder than by
proposing a change
in either land-tax or
land-tax valuations.
At present the tax is
a whole ha’penny in
the £ and the valua-
tion is one of the
wonders of the is-
land. The vener-
able J. D. Wood,
recently elected
to the Assembly,
owns 20,194 acres
assessed at £45,-
900, or £2 ss. 6d.
per acre; while
the poor grafter
who improves
his scrap of sec-
ond-rate land in,
say, the Huon
district, is privi-
leged to pay tax
on about £l3 per
acre. Within an hour’s walk of Hobart is an
estate of nearly a thousand acres assessed at £2OO,
and alongside another of twenty acres valued at
£l5O. A third of Tasmania’s M.’sP. are listed as
“landholders.” That probably explains a lot of
things.
W. M‘Millan at an educational break-up :
So convinced was he of the necessity for the strictest
discipline that he was of opinion that it would be a good
thing if every boy were compelled to go through a period
of military training.
Much, no doubt, can be said for the military
training of youth, but so many tailors and male
milliners play moustached warrior that it is hard
to persuade the public to take the subject
seriously.
Probably the most solid Protectionist vote
cast in N.S. W. on Dec. 16 was at the little agri-
cultural centre of Shark Creek, on the Clarence
River. Sixty-seven votes were polled there, and
every one was cast for the Protectionist Reps,
candidate, Frank Clarke. For the Senate, the
whole 67 were also cast for Protectionists Collins
and Griffith, and 64 for the other Protectionist,
Cunneen, while Henry Fletcher received the odd
three.
“ L.W.” : Some fool of a parson has
recently been asking with a snuffle would Christ
be in favor of a White Australia. This insane
habit of asking what Christ would do under
certain circumstances will yet land the parsons in
difficulties. Some day a Laborite will arise and
ask what would have happened to Christ under
Irvine’s Strike Bill had He attempted to deliver
the Sermon on the Mount while the railway strike
was on ?
During the “ increased grain freights ”
discussion on the Victorian estimates, nearly every
Tory in the Assembly, every blatant opponent of
socialistic legislation, every railer at Government
interference with private enterprise, got on his
legs and bleated about the necessity for assisting
the poor farmer. The wildest barracker for these
socialistic proposals was M ‘Ketchup, of St. Kilda,
absolutely the most hopeless Tory in the whole
House.
If there is one candidate in whose case
profanity is justified it is J. M. Chanter, who, in
a poll of nearly 9000 votes (not counting in-
formal), lost by jive —unless a recount upsets the
arrangement. All the local Tory interests rallied
round big landlord Blackwood, who has some
81,000 sheep and got about 4500 votes—nearly one
vote for every 20 sheep. The six men who were
too tired to vote for Chanter have a great deal to
answer for.
“ B.” writes :
The average virtuous Victorian has been reading the
accounts of blackguardism in the N.S.W. Assembly with
feelings of disgust and spasms of righteousness. Over
here we reckon we’ve only one politician who’d have a
chance in the Macquarie-street bear-garden, and that is
the cabbage-grower, Tommy of the Train. On purely
aesthetic grounds, we’re ready to part with Bent to
N.S.W., as it seems a pity that the Parliament of Owe’-
Sullivan, Crick, Norton, and other shining specimens
should be incomplete. And when we sell Bent, Vic. will
be able to pay for a few of those disabled engines.
Extract from a letter by George Pile, in
the S.M. Herald :
One would have thought that by this time the lessons
of the past would have been read by our people, and that
they, realising the effect of socialistic legislation, would
have been guided to have returned business men, men
with business knowledge, to the Federal Parliament at
the late election.
There is something magnificent about the confi-
dence of house-agents and the like that they alone
are competent to manage the affairs of a nation.
That overwhelming meeting of indignant
secessionists who, in the words of John Haynes,
are to give utterance to the “sweeping triumphant
voice” of N.S.W. for a bursting up of the union,
will be held in the School of Arts Hall, Sydney.
Said hall has about space enough to allow of the
swinging of a very moderate kitten, so apparently
: John’s hopes aren’t built on the same scale as his
yell. W hen a man calls on the indignant millions
to gather in a dog-kennel and assert their rights
he makes the ungodly laugh.
George Pile, the one-time owner of George
Pile’s dog, has been writing to the S.M. Herald
to tell the old story about the English capitalist
who was just going to invest £lOO,OOO in iron-
works here, but was scared off by “socialistic
legislation.” As usual, no name is given—the
name of the tattered person who declined to
invest £lOO,OOO here by reason of our socialistic
legislation never is given. The Bulletin, for its
own part, doesn’t believe this wild, weird person
had a copper to invest ; it doesn’t even believe
that there ever was such a person. If he existed
there would be some trace somewhere of the
£lOO,OOO works he established before we began to
have Labor parties and socialistic legislation, and
even if George Pile had 25 dogs he couldn’t find
those great industries.
SAVING HIS FACE.
“ He writes that I am a cad."
“ Tell him you will pull his nose."
“I will — where’s your telephone?”
When the Election Expenses Limitation
Bill was before Victorian Assembly, it was
amusing to see how the men of wealth fought for
freedom to bribe electors and buy votes for their
party. Fairbairn, M'Cuteheon, and the wealthy
retired baker, “Dave” Hennessy, tried all sorts
of dodges to get the Bill wiped out in the
Assembly. Men who have no other legislative
qualification than the possession of money are
naturally shocked to think that they will not be
able to use that solitary feature of their characters.
Victoria’s House of 48 Rich Landlords is.
more a caucus than a legislative chamber. When
an important measure is coming before it, the
Landlords first meet informally, with no Hansard,
no reporters, and no audience, and decide what
they will do. Then they meet formally and carry
out their intentions, but the reasons, arguments,
compromises and deliberations are kept secret!
As these caucus proceedings constitute the real
business, the House of Landlords, on important
occasions, is really a secret and unreported
gathering.
Dr. Quick had a desperate fight for his
Bendigo seat with the Labor candidate, and
wouldn’t have won but for the break-away of some
of the Miners’ Association leaders from the Trades
Hall. Praed, general secretary of the Association
in Victoria, and other officials, worked hard for
him. Quick, who has never forgotten that he
began life as a mine-hand, has been the Associ-
ation’s lawyer for years, and often has forgotten
to send in the bill. Nevertheless relations between
the Miners’ Association office and the Trades
Hall are rather more strained than ever.
Provision embodied in the new Victorian
Elections Act:
Makes it an illegal practice for a paper to publish any
false or defamatory statement regarding the personal
character or conduct of any candidate, and renders it
possible for an aggrieved party to obtain a perpetual in-
junction from a judge of the Supreme Court to restrain
further publication of such statement.
Press slanders have been so unscrupulously used
lately to influence elections that a muzzling law
is inevitable. The newspapers may shriek about
the “freedom of the press,” and soon, but they
have brought the restriction on themselves.
Cabled that—
The British Admiralty is prepared for every eventuality.
No British warship is en route to the Far East, but it is
understood that Admiral Cyprian Bridge (the Oom-
mander-in-Chief of the China station), Rear-Admiral G.
L. Atkinson-Willes (the Commander-in-Chief of the East
Indies squadron), and possibly Vice-Admiral A. D. Fan-
shawe (the Commander-in-Chief of the Australian
station) are in possession of secret orders.
Presumably Admiral Fanshawe’s “secret orders ”
are to take the Australian squadron away North
in case of “eventualities,” so the Commonwealth
may possibly see the heels of the ships it is pay-
ing for a little sooner than it expected.
Some remarks by Bowles, the Freetrade
candidate at Newcastle (N.S.W.):
A committee was formed after the meeting to further
the interests of the Freetrade and Liberal party. Mr.
Bowles intimated that he had been accepted as the
party’s candidate, and chat probably other members of
the party would speak in the district in his support. He
had been promised a very strong vote already, especially
of ladies. He was president of the Christian Endeavor
Union, which had 1700 members, most of whom were
electors, and he had been promised their vote. The church
and temperance vote, he thought, would also be his, and
he had been promised the vote of the A.P.D.A.
And even with four separate holy snuffles to vote
for him he didn’t get in.
“ Demos ” from Melbourne :
I have not often been more profoundly moved than by
the meeting in the Melbourne Trades Hall on Friday
night, when the result of the elections was known.
Women formed about two-thirds of the crowded
assemblage. There was a Eureka Stockade feel about it,
electricity in the air, flesh and blood politics. The busts
of Higinbotham and Wilson Gray looked down placidly
from each side of the chairman. The grandeur of the
affair was in its sentiment being Australian, not Pro-
vincial. Victorian Labor has not gained in the Senate,
according to Trades Hall ideas, for that party put in
Barrett last time. However, there is Trenwith instead of
Invoice Reid, surely a big gain, although the Trades Hall
denounces Trenny as a “ treacherous political bounder."
The Trades Hall enthusiasm was over the advance made
by other States.
Colonel Templeton, the Argus Senatorial
candidate, got a nasty jar at Warragul (Vic.),
where he was explaining that white men couldn’t
possibly work in the stoke-hole of a mail boat
coming through the Red Sea. An indignant
elector rose up abd hailed the liquidating colonel
with: “ You know as much about that as about
politics generally. I have stoked on the Orient
line for three years, and here’s my discharge (pro-
ducing it). It’s all rot what you say. I can do as
much as three black men ; but 1 want more wages
than half a dozen. That’s the whole trouble.
And a purely theoretical colonel, who never stoked
in his life, could only change the subject hurriedly.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2
Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERT, 89C Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
[ennon’s Hotel, Brisbane
Has been Re-Furnished throughout and will be
conducted as a FIRST-CLASS HOUSE. Its
central position recommends it to Commercial
Men and Families. Trams pass the door —a penny
section to any part of the City.
S. M. COLLINS, Proprietor.
SPECTACLES
. ,. ." ﬂax . ‘i ;
4C .,
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
C OUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously -accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own siy> ht and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to —
H. A* BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George=St., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
m
Before booking; your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
@r’ﬂ
.951»1
*9; iii-~11
GrO TO HFIT.L-
KiOIiANJi for Pretty Stumps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci?,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


15he
Best
British
Piano
is undeniably the
BRINSMCAD
PIANO * * *
Made in a variety of
styles. New and
artistic models
constantly arriving.
The “ standing ” qualities
of the Brinsmead Pianos
have been conclusively
proved during the past 40
years in these States.
If you want the Best
British Piano made,
Bur a Brinsmead
Sold on Easy Terms
*
PALING’S
338 George-st.,
Sydney,
Bandsmen
*
PALING’S
can supply any instrument
required trom a
CORNET
#17333} 2
(‘1‘ |.|'_',—").7_‘.2 ’
' E'LLJ— ‘”
I to a DRUM I
and all othei Brass and
Wood Wind Instruments
in between.
Send for Catalogues.
Post Free.
****
Paling’s,
338 Georg'e St.
SYDNEY.
(Please take lift 3rd floor).
Music
Stools at
PallXlg'*S«
Substantially made of
Brass, with patent screw,
brass rim round seat, and
rod back. Every part
rivetted Handsome
plush upholstered seats
in a variety of colors.
Price £2 25., packed free.
An adjunct to any draw-
ing-room.
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
(Please take lift 3rd floor.)
HEALTH
And How To Obtain It.
TUBERCULOSIS
OF TUB
BOWELS
CURED BY
VITADATIO
Canterbury Road, Mount Pleasant,
Tunstall, Victoria,
June 1, 1901.
MR. PALMER,
Dear Sir,—Last November I felt very unwell and had to
take to my bed. 1 called in a doctor, he examined me,
and said that I was suffering; from Tuberculosis of the
Bowels. He prescribed for me, and not feeling better I
decided to call in another who examined me also and said
the same thing. He also prescribed for me, and still
feeling no better I was strongly advised to take VITA-
DATIO, and after taking it for a short time I began to
improve, and eventually regained my long lost health.
I was three months in bed and suffered a great deal of
pain, and had it not been for VITADATIO I believe I
would have died ; but to-day I am thankful to say I am
in good health, and have gained a stone in weight, and
can honestly recommend to any person suffering as I did.
Yours faithfully,
ELIZABETH DENNY.
We certify that the above is correct.
Robert Dare, 233 High-street, Northcote.
Mary Ann Barker, Rellett-street, Northcote.
E. Bakeh, Derby Avenue, Northcote.
W. P. Boundy, Federal Dye Worke, 22 Best-Street,
North Fitzroy.
Alfred Jbnkin, 29 Herbert-street, Northcote.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N»,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Oonnell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
m
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
Models
,£2*lo to £s*s*o
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres, A ccessories, Sporting Goods &
'Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
•Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD GYGLE GO. Dept. 339 B
CHICAGO, B.S.A. and LiYKIU'OOL, KSULASD.
From Allison’s History :
No nation can pretend to independence which rests for
any sensible portion of its subsistence in ordinary seasons
on foreign (who may become hostile) nations. And if we
would see a memorable example of the manner in which
the greatest and most powerful nation may come to be
paralysed by this cause, we have only to cast our eyes on
Imperial Rome, when the vast extent of the empire had
practically free trade in grain with the whole civilised
world, and the result was that cultivation disappeared
from the Italian plains ; the race of Roman agriculturists,
the strength of the empire, became extinct; the legion
could be no longer recruited, but from foreign lands;
vast tracts of pasturage overspread even the fields of
Lombardy and the Campagna of Naples ; and it was the
plaintive confession of the Roman annalist that the Mis-
tress of the World had come to depend for her subsist-
ence on the floods of the Nile.
This Elastic Truss
m
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is something better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
Legal Notice.
T)URSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division of
the High Court of .Justice made on the 10th day of
August 1903 “In the Matter of the Estate of Caroline
Hicks deceased ” and in an Action between Elizabeth Isabel
Hicks (Spinster) Plaintiff and Alice Noakes Dengate
(Married Woman) Defendant 1903 11.2196 the following
Inquiry was (inter alia) directed namely (1) “ An Inquiry
who were the PERSONS ENTITLED by virtue of or
according to the Statute of Distribution to the ESTATE
of CAROLINE HICKS the Intestate in the Originating
Summons mentioned living at the time of her death and
whether any of them are since dead and if so who are
their respective legal personal representatives.” The
said Caroline Hicks resided at the time of her death
which happened on or about the Ist day of May 1898 at
No. 32 Park Road St. Leonards on Sea in the County of
Sussex and was one of the daughters of Richard Hicks
and Philadelphia his wife formerly Philadelphia
Richardson.
Now all persons claiming under such Inquiry (1) are by
their Solicitors on or before the 10th day of March 1904
to come in and prove their claims at the Chambers of
Mr. Justice Farwell and Mr. Justice Swinfen Eady at the
Royal Courts of Justice Strand London or in default
thereof they will he peremptorily excluded from the
benefit of the said Order.
Tuesday the 15th day of March 1904 at one o’clock in
the afternoon at the said Chambers is appointed for
hearing and adjudicating upon the said claims.
Dated this 18th day of November 1903.
E. W. WALKER Master.
Kingsford Dorman & Co. 23 Essex-street, Strand,
London, W.C., Agents for Phillips & Cheesnian Hastings,
Plaintiff’s Solicitor.
Death.
HANKIN.—Died at Johannesburg, South Africa,
17th November, 1903, JOHN HANKIN,
aged 44, late of Sydney. Would relatives
communicate with G. D. MoPHERSON
BOX 3771, JOHANNESBURG, for par-
ticulars.
I'M
;
t • - "•- , 3l^'-v£8QBb* i i ■,'., '
• -jsam
*9g! 'i
,
i
Is \
gl ■;
V; .
'Mtr: '.?&i
TRADE HARK.
Honest Wear
In Every Pair.
24/6
POST
AND
DUTY
FREE
Except to
Weet Australia
GOOD
BOOTS
ARE NOT
EXPENSIVE
BOOTS !
Men’s French Calf, to Button,
Pointed or Medium Toe, Fine Made-
to-Order Appearance, price, 23/6
THE SAME BOOT IN TAN AT THE SAME PRIOE.
Post and Duty Free through the Commonwealth, 24/6, except Westralia.
Every pair of boots sold by us is thoroughly up-to-date in style as well as full of wear. You
may rely on first-class quality in return for a perfectly fair price. You will find all you
can desire in this boot.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 georce st„ Sydney.


A S’African paper tells this :
The other day, a young fellow found employment, after
seeking it in vain for weeks. He had excellent testi-
monials, and his appearance favorably impressed the
merchant who engaged him. On presenting himself
next morning to enter upon his duties, he was called by
the principal of the firm into his office and asked what
part of the world he came from. Innocently enough, the
young man replied “ Australia,” and was astonished at
the change that came over the merchant’s face. “ You
should have told me that before,” he said, sternly. I '' e
no ■ use for you.” After which brutal speech he
waved the disappointed youth out of the office.
What we fought for !
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-street.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking, Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
CSV
$
*5
BILLS
discounted.
axr.s.'W.
(IjontdepieteO.Al.C o -,!^-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
■ * SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J IAM HKD. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457 ’ 3^
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESER VE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
£693,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Offiee-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .’. .. .-. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,330,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,330,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar. M.L.C., President
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Rf.ghnald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnib, Esq.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests mohe.v on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes, and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business. , .
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circular
Notes in sums of £lO of £2O, negotiable throughout the
World J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Svdnej' : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Oo.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M’Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Oollins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP L 90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) • £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
(j. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
m
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonder tul remedy free for the asking.
Professor H. READ,
166. Collins street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
KT. D.
(NORD-DUUTSCHI2B LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 20th JANUARY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London .
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
MILTIADES
MORAVIAN
SOPHOCLES
T. I*. Spalding
A. Simpson
H. A. Schleman
Noon, Jan. 9
Noon, Feb. 6
Noon, Feb. 27
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
HRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions,
2 to 5 Beasonsfield Parade
st; kilda.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than;licensed hotels. City, j-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
qobanio ste a jve secif
A. AND aT LINE.
COMPAKTY.
THE
FAST
MAIL
LINE.
Sydney to Auckland .. .. .. SJ days.
Auckland to Pago Pago .. .. .. 4 days.
Samoa to Fanning Island .. .. 4 days.
Fanning Island to Honolulu .. •• days.
Honolulu to San Francisco .. •• days.
Overland to New York .. .. .. 4 days.
New York to London .. • • • • 6 days.
Passengers can break the journey en route.
________________
R.M.S. ng'my’ Auckland. 8. F’cisco. London.
VENTURA .. Jan. 11 Jan. 15 Feb. 1 Feb. 13
SIERRA .. Feb. 1 Feb. 5 Feb. 22 March 5
sommm .. Feb. 7 722 w». 26.Mamh “March :25;
Elaborately appointed Staterooms for occupancy of not more than TWO Passengers.
No Steamers on the Pacific compare with our “ Sister Ships,” S !e rra, Sonoma, Venera. The Nt;^WEST, LAEO
(6200 tons), FASTEST, AND ONLY STEAMERS HAVING TWIN-SCREWS WITH IWO SRlb OJJ
INDEPENDENT ENGINES.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE
Send for Illustrated Matter, including New Publication, “If Not, Why Not. lost Iree, 3d.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
THU—>
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; lion. C. J. Roberts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.H.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, ±2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305—assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses-equitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLIINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £2,500,000
The Bank of Qorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 100 ... £350.000
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
(•HLOROPYNE
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyae.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, bea1 ’ 3 oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS DROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS jl
Sept. 28 1895, says:
«if j were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER'S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head-acheß<fc all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
•‘As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.” —Prof. W. Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache.
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, lie.
Of all Stores
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL —
Feb. 1, Feb. 22, March 21.
The Route to England via
St. Louis.
Rocky Mountains, Niagara Falls,
AND THE CITIES OF
New York, Chicago, Montreal and
Boston En Route.
Illustrated, Pamphlets Posted Free on Application .
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sj'dney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
pEDERAL, HOULDER, SHIRE LINES.
STEAM to LONDON via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
The Magnificent Twin-screw Steamship
ESSEX,
11,000 Tons, T. YOUNO, Commander,
will be despatched Early in JANUARY, taking General
and Refrigerated Cargo and Live Stock at
LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
WOOL received at the Stores of Chas. Taylor and Co.,
Limited. .
Has splendid Accommodation amidships for Saloon
and Third-class Passengers, at the following Reduced
,
Saloon. Third-class.
TO DURBAN or CAPETOWN .. £2O £7
TO LONDON .. .. .. £25 £lO
For Full Particulars Apply to
BIRT and CO., Ltd., Agents,
7 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
I v
PERSONAL MAGNETISM, Etc. By our system you
can learn this wonderful Science at home. It enables
you to cure Diseases, Bad Habits, such as DRUNKEN-
NESS, win Reluctant Affection, create amusement, make
friends and money, and gratify your highest ambitions.
We absolutely guarantee success. Our book on Hyp-
notism, Personal Magnetism, etc., Richly Illustrated
throughout with Photos from Life of Persons Hypnotised,
is the finest work of its class ever issued, is intensely in-
teresting, and has been the means of starting thousands
on the road to success. Send for Book, V'bst free, and
■test for yourself this remarkable power. Tim American
Institute of Science, Victoria Buildings, 63b Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all Northwestern Ports
S.S. Rockton, Thursday,
Jan. 31, at 5 p.m. (Tran-
shipping at Melbourne;.
■ S.S. Yongala (Newest and
Fastest Steamer on the
Coast), Saturday, Jan. I,
at 10 a.m. (Without
Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
AndPortsNorth to Oatrna
5.5. 2,
5.5. Rockton, Jan.
S.S. Innamincka,
at Noon.
at 10 p.m.
9, at Noon
Jan. 16.,
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable .after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India. China.
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
„R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“e. and a.” line.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing- two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Th rough bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandboolts and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
k
Soda Water Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs, —The machine purchased from you is per-
fection. The Stuff turned out is Splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers. —Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgatdie, says : —“Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “ I have made
Thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says :— “ It is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.” .
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, AV.A., says Since getting one of
your Machines, and making our own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.” .
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says Machine great
success.”
!E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says “Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:— A alue of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.” , (TJ . ..
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers,
jJ. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says : Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists FOR
a! good quality of Aerated Waters. Observe the Profii s
Call and see these machines, or write for circular describ-
ng them, also Price List. Prices Reduced.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co-
; 407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored
Four Weeks by using
ie only Infallib e Remedy for WEAKNESS DEBILITtf,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for iree paniph et. ,
rice 125., or four quantities in one, 365. 1 rei„ht extia,
JmLf/or' itoutem-PERRV& CO 47' Queen W.,
Melbourne; N.S.W.- Fau ding & Co., 16 0 Conneli
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and i erth.


Advance copies of Phil May in Australia, con-
taining a collection of the artist’s best pictures
contributed to The Bulletin— in cartoon-work,
portraiture, and humorous drawings—may be
inspected at The Bulletin offices, 214 George-
street, Sydney, and 369 Collins-street, Melbourne.
The subscription price is 10s. 6d ; and orders are
now being received. The book will be published
on 17th January, in an edition limited to 975
copies (and 25 numbered copies in superior bind-
ing, with extra plate, at £1 11s. 6d.) The
publishers reserve the right to raise the price
on publication if found advisable.*
“ Bunny ” : Went into an out- back school
t’other day. Saw a class of kiddies (most of the
poor little beggars have never been within 300
miles of the ocean) learning geography with sand-
trays, claypans, basins of water, rocks, pebbles,
sketch-books and colored pencils. They simply
revelled in the lesson. Kindergarten’s a fool to
it. (Perhaps this is the true Kindergarten !) In
theold days so much was jammed and crammed into
them, so many lines, so many pages of “ jogafree,”
&c., that pupils (poor, persecuted pupils) became
marvellous memory machines—or physical wrecks.
They could recite yards and yards of damnable
dry definitions, but they did not know what they
were jabbering .about. Now the kiddies say less,
but do more. These bush-bairns can build you an
island, a lake, a cape, a mountain, a valley, a
desert, &c.—or make a very intelligent sketch of
divers colors on paper. Bless the new style.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Volapuk is, and has been for some time,
apparently dead, but a new universal language,
bearing the not very convincing title of Esperanto,
has sprung up to take its place. It is claimed for
it that anybody, literate or illiterate, cabman or
university graduate, of any nationality, European,
Chinaman, African nigger, or American Indian,
can learn to read, speak, and write it within a
month, while the grammar can be acquired in one
hour. It already possesses a library of some 200
volumes, including translations of “Hamlet,”
Byron s “ Cain,” and the “ Iliad,” besides many
scientific works, the latest edition being a com-
mentary on the fifth book of Euclid. Max
Muller and Tolstoy swear by it, and John Charles
O Connor, in T.P.’s weekly, devotes a page to its
praise, but he does not tell whence it comes.
“W.J.A.”: The versatility of the out-of-
work Australian is remarkable. I met a man in
Queensland whose bona-fide record runs as fol-
lows,_ his occupations being shown in order:—
Tourist, cane-cutter, timber-getter, gentleman,
groom, billiard-marker, typhoid nurse, under-
taker, Sunday-school teacher, bullock driver,
lodging-house keeper, bookmaker, engineer on
river steamer, aeronaut, hospital patient. Some
of his notes:—Hardest graft, cane-cutting;
easiest, bookmaking ; best-paying, boarding-house
keeping ; least profitable, Sunday-school teaching.
His longest engagement was as tourist (with
swag); shortest, aeronaut. (He forgot to
put water in the engine-boiler, and it
was all over in 10 seconds). He kept
boarders (cane-cutters) at Bundaberg, and
cooked everything in one utensil—a frying pan.
He first made tea in it, then cooked the chops,
and afterwards washed up in it. Being thrifty,
he, in the last days of the business, burnt every
fixture, partition and ceiling in the house for
firewood. The boarders left before he had time
to use up the flooring. When he departed he
politely returned the key of the remainder to
the landlady. She thanked him, and gave him
tea and cake. “So few,” she said, “paid up the
rent and brought back the key.” Hard times
drove him to Sunday-school teaching, and an
offer to escort a team of oxen to Hughenden
caused him to slide from grace. Being broken up
and unable to work, he is now in a Government
billet in Kanakaland.
Extract from a Fatman’s diary :
When we moved into the new house in Uppercrust
Grove—built out of the money saved since that ruffian
Kingston retired from the Customs—Birdie and I decided
that Jobson, the insolent groom, who wanted his wages
increased by 25., should be dismissed. As if 12s. 6d. and
keep—excellent keep, too, even if the servants do com-
plain about the kitchen butter and tea—wasn’t enough
for any working man. I’ve heard of a boy whose mother
was poor, so I got him for 2s. 6d. Of course, this was an
exorbitant salary for a mere boy, who eats such
a lot, but my generosity very often gets the
best of me. He had nothing to do but keep
the yard tidy, look after the horses, clean the buggy
and brougham, polish the knives and boots, work in the
garden, feed the fowls, attend to the dogs, and do a few
odd jobs about in his spare time. He’s a lucky boy who
gets a nice easy place like ours. But some are never
satisfied and don’t appreciate a good situation. This one
turned out to be lazy—so lazy I’m surprised his conscience
didn’t prick him when. Mrs. Smithers paid him on
Saturdays. He never got up before 6 o’clock—such sloth
I detest. If it was not that my arduous dutiesas sole pro-
prietor of a warehouse required more than the ordinary
rest I’d be up at daylight every morning. I like it, and it’s
a habit I am particularly anxious to encourage in my ser-
vants. Hence when Birdie informed me that Adolphuswas
not an early riser, I was much annoyed, and determined
to put him on the right track. Next morning I set the
alarm for 4.30. It certainly was trying to have to get up
after my hard work of the day before, but my dutv was
clear. I robed myself in the dressing-gown Birdie bought
me last Christmas, and, descending to the servants’
quarters, called Adolphus. I continued in the same way
for a week. Judge of my horror then, when Birdie was
informed by the housemaid that Adolphus had confided
to her that when he’d made sure I had gone back
to bed he simply turned over and slept another hour !
My moral sense has not received so great a shock since I
was forced to go to court and herd with common drunks
over a slight error of my shipping clerk. But my mind
was soon made up. I would administer a lesson not to
\>e forgotten. Accordingly, after calling Adolphus next
morning, I pretended to retire as usual, but, removing
my slippers, stole noiselessly back to his room, stealthily
entered, and removing the bedclothes with my left hand,
administered three hast, sound smacks with the other.
It certainly was an unfortunate mistake that I had
entered the wrong room. Nothing would console her,
and Birdie says the girl will tell all her friends and we’ll
have great difficulty in getting another housemaid. But
I comfort myself that my intentions were of the best.
MOST SUCCESSFUL.
Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is
the most successful medicine in the world for
bowel complaints, both for adults and children.
Pleasant and safe to take, prompt in its action,
and effectual in results. Sold everywhere at
Is. 6d.*
Walcha, N.S.W., May 31st, 1901.
Last summer I had a bad attack of Diarrhoea,
and was completely prostrated. I tried several
medicines, but they all failed. I then tried one
bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and
Diarrhoea Remedy.
It acted like a charm. I can safely recommend
it to other sufferers. If the instructions are
followed, no after-effects of an unpleasant nature
are experienced.
FRANK TOWNSHEND,
Editor and Publisher Walcha Witness.*
Miss Ada Crossley’s
TRIBUTE TO
THE PIANOLA.
21/10/’O3.
Menzies’ Hotel,
Melbourne.
The Manager of the Pianola Co.
Dear Sir, —I want to tell you how delighted I am
with the Pianola. It is altogether wonderful ! In an
accompaniment to several of my songs it has given
me splendid support, and the tone has been most
sympathetic and sustaining.
With appreciation and greeting,
Very truly yours,
ADA CROSSLEY.
There is but one PIANOLA.
Sold only toy . . .
HENRY M. BIRGE & GO.
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
185-7 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
We will mail you a Catalogue of the Pianola
free if you will write us. Ask for Catalogue B.
. D
.^eyagH^E«j«jisß
!«k «»>»]
i^^W^KKKSfll
«* «s «s «»r«s » » «
(CLOTHED WITH AIR.
AERTEX
The Original
CELLULAR.
X>* flealtblest and moil Comfortable Underwear for Hea, Women and
Children.
The continually increasing popularity of Aertex Cellular Clothing
has led to numerous inferior imitations being sold under similar
names.
The public are warned against buying imitations when described
* "just as good as Aertex."_
£Jgp£€
«o;osri
%S@®B»„
►SSSIPSS
*S*t&^j*y*s*s
WENTO
i 5*
«» i<»
6:#T<i
tmo
MMU2
££t
SOLE AGENTS
Illustrated Catalogues
and Patterns post free.
D. BRAHAM & CO
73 and 75 King: Street.
I
I
Sill 8
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
In over 100 years’ world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) 111 V,
2/9. 11/-, and 22/-pots.
Dr. ROBERTS’ ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1/1 K I 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by —
BEACH &. BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
C. L. ROBERTS, M.B.
Earn 1766. Died 1234.
ALL!
GOOD KAIR
HoHand’s M&rvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the liair. If your Hair is falling olf, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
£3T For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. Gd. ; postage, 9d. extra.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR ’ '
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATERS* as MACK.U, Chemists, Queen btreet, Brisbane • Mr GORDON wr
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and OUKDON, 92 George
E, HOIIAHD, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-stroot, MELBOURNE
A Policy for the Comoraonwealth.
iPrice, Gel.; Pcsteci, Oc3L.
All Chemists.
Washington 11. Soul & (Jo..
Pitt-slreet, Sydney.
H. NEWMAN S
KEYLESS
WORKERS’ WATCH
05
Specially Imported by H. NEWMAN.
Strong, Beautifully Chased, Oxydised Case,
| Emblematical of the 8 Hours principle, f-plate
movement, 2 pair extra jewels and guaranteed a
perfect timekeeper.
Every Worker in the State should have one
Price 30s. (post free to any address).
H. NEWMAN,
312 Bourke St., Melbourne
(Adjoining Buckley & Nunn’s).
LADIES’
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel. 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
lUU TfrtlTl II
CET IT WITH A
KODAK
r-y
mwv
9
m
the best natural
Aperient’ water.
m
the best natural
Aperient- water.
uu
ftU
m
im
cs
<2
the best natural
Aperient- wafer.
JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient- water.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
Moat owners of starters in A. J.C. Summer Cup,
Saturday, had big lumps of the sweep laid them, and, as
a consequence, there were no eliminations; every oneof
16 carded stripped. Long Tom was most wanted, despite
his 61b. penalty, and, though others were freely backed,
he hardened to 5 to 2 before flag fall, while “ no money "
was Ikey’s response in many instances to inquiries for
the favorite. Bridegroom, T.M.S., Tatterdemalion, Little
Mary, and Fanfare were others weightily invested upon.
Donovan showed the road for some time, then Leader
(late Autocrat) joined him, and that pair led into the
straight, where they tired palpably. Cyanide and Long
Tom dashed to the front followed by Queenslander Ivan,
who galloped on Cyanide’s heels and came down, shoot-
ing mannikin Cornwell out of the saddle. Inside
the half - distance Bridegroom was level with the
favorite and a high-tension tussle resulted in Bride-
groom scoring by a neck amidst intense excitement and
mainly through Long Tom’s rider (Barden) easing a bit,
evidently under the impression he owned the race.
Fanfare was third. Hoisting of Bridegroom’s number
was the signal for a scene hitherto without parallel at
Randwick. Air was thick with hoots, groans and jeers
at the judge till long after the “ weight ” flag went up
and the noses had paid out. Some of the throng foamed
at the mouth. Big majority of people in the grandstand
and reserve thought Long Tom had surely won, but
those in members’ section (better placed) had no doubt
about the result, and wondered at the demonstration.
Time (2.52) is the slowest since the journey was increased
to lm. 6fur., and lsec. worse than Aurantia’s win last
year. -'
• * *
Winner (Bridegroom) of Summer Cup was bred
in Queensland, and is by King Olaf (son of Splendor) from
Tooloona, by First Lord (son of Yattendon) from Miss
Beau, by Clarion (son of Kelpie) from Lurline, by The
Premier. Though he won several times in Queensland,
Bridegroom’s previous best performance in N.S.W. was
annexing Hawkesbury Spring Handicap September last.
Subsequent to A.J.C. Spring meet astute Randwick
trainer, Ike Earnshaw, bought Bridegroom, and now
finds the spec, a more than profitable one. Since hia
comparatively poor showing in A.J.C. Salisbury Stakes
last month Bridegroom has improved remarkably.
* * * *
Air Motor was said to be going straightway to
the stud, but her owner gave the mare another chance,
with the result that, Saturday week, she annexed A.J.C.
Grand Stand Stakes (w.f.a.), and Saturday last appro-
priated Villiers Stakes (1 mile) in 1.39) (the fastest time
ever put up for the event). Air Motor carried top weight
(9.7), and beat Kingljck’s (last year) figures by )sec., with
51b. more in the saddle. She was bred at Kirkham by
Mr. H. MacKellar, and is by imported Ayr Laddie from
Goldsbrough mare Windmill, dam of Treadmill—M.L.’s
high-class performer, which ran second to Waikiki in
Auckland Cup on Saturday.
* * • •
Every one of six starters in A.J.C. December
Stakes (Saturday) was a maiden. Yitula faced the
barrier 6 to 1 on, and won easily. Provided he winters
well, Vitula should take a lot of beating in next season’s
young races.
* • • •
Biggest surprise of A.J.C. Summer Meeting on
Saturday was Transvaal’s remarkably easy manner of
winning the Hurdles. Stable connections were evidently
very confident, for nag was solidly backed and sent out
first favorite in slightly better request than Wollogorang
and Roodoch. Transvaal’s display of foot and jumping
was distinctly good, and in strong contrast to prior exhi-
bitions. Such a well-bottled-up good thing hasn’t been
seen over the sticks for some time.
• * * *
A.J.C. Nursery Hep., Saturday, was respon-
sible for downfall of a hot-pot in Lochiel filly Mangosteen,
who went out at 6 to 4 on, but finished second to Jim
Dorset (5 to 2 against), who was on 91bs. better terms
than when beaten by the filly the week before. J.D.
wore the filly down from the distance.
* * * •
Of 79 nags nominated for Carrington Stakes at
Randwick, Friday, this week, 23 are left in, and Pendant,
Sarto, and Idolise should have the winner amongst them.
Tatt.’s Cup (following day) 33 entrants have been reduced
to 17, of whom Bridegroom and Fanfare (on form so far
shown) look the pick.
• * * *
Praleon, who won at Randwick, t’other day,
starting an outsider, cost owner (Agar Wynne) £lOOO as a
yearling, mainly through her relationship to Grasspan
and Brakpan, but never finished first past the post till
occasion referred to. Possibly she’ll mend her ways now,
but it’ll take more than a race or two to get back any-
thing like a fair proportion of the coin lost on her.
• * * *
‘ * Marat ” : A Hindu put a pocketful of money
on The Hawker in the Juvenile Stakes, at Canterbury
Park, the other Saturday. When Bon Soir came in on his
own, Mustapha Khan went into a corner behind the stand
and prayed hard for the rest of the afternoon. Now and
again he stopped, to ask bystanders if The Hawker was
really beaten, or had his eyes deceived him. When they
assured him that his eyes were all right, he would have a
fresh outburst of prayer and lamentation. I think, by the
confident way he planked his money, one of his gods must
have given him the shapeless and unreliable griffin.
* » * ♦
The Sydney ex-politician who has raced of late
with such secondary success as “Mr. Marvel” is said to
be thinking seriously of giving the game best.
* * » *
Final forfeits for Y.A.T.C. Juvenile Stakes
(won by F.J.A. last year) saw that stable (Scobie’s) repre-
sented by Haut Nove, full brother to Sweet Nell, who
cost Mr: William Bailey 750 gs. as a yearling and hasn't
shown in public yet.
• * • *
Books had a great time at last Moonee Valley
meet-four of six races went to outsiders, three of them
very much so ; still some of the tribe insisted that they
lost heavily. Mo, according to himself, never wins, and
yet, though living on the fat of the land, he yackers not
neither does he twirl the long-handled shovel of honest
industry.
* * * *
Dingo and Nor’ West, who had fenish of recent
Takapuna Steeple between them, are full brothers.
Re fecundity of M.L. brood mare Rosalind
(Bulletin, 17/12/’O3). Breeder (T. Shannon) of last
Christchurch Derby winner, Roseal, handled all Rosa-
lind’s progeny, and says Dog Rose, a bay gelding by
Natator, was the best of the lot. At two years Rosalind
became the property of Mr. Redwood, and cost 37gs.
Following season she was put to the stud. Her first foal
(White Rose) was accidentally killed. Black Rose,
Alpine Rose, Sweetie and Redwood all won races. Awaru
Rose gathered a treble at Nelson Jubilee meeting. Royal
Rose performed well in Australia and M.L., and then
went to India. Yellow Rose is the dam of Heloise, and
Spring Rose of Rose Petal, a 3-year-old filly by Handsome
Rose. Last of Rosalind’s lot is a yearling chestnut filly
by Hillstone. Old age necessitated Rosalind’s destruction
last winter.
• • * •
Oldest nag seen out at recent Otahuhu (M.L.)
Trotting Club’s meet was Little Ben, by Ben Bolt—he
tops 16. Eleven years since Little Ben won Auckland
Trotting Club’s Cup, then worth £3OO. Said that Little
Ben’s sire’s dam was Sydney mare Bay Judy—a once
particularly good performer who beat all comers for a
long time.
* * * *
Opening (Boxing Day) of W.A.T.O.’s (Perth)
New Year meet saw a record attendance (12,000) for
Derby Day—3ooo better than last year. Tote results
showed considerable increase ; despite big business done
by an army of Moses, £9BOO passed through the machine.
Remarkable features were extraordinary big fields in
evidence and fact that absolute first favorites appropriated
five races, the other (Cubana, in Maiden Plate) just being
pipped on the post by Batolga, 15 to 1. W.A.T.C. Handi-
cap attracted 25 starters (biggest field ever seen in
Westralia), yet Meteorite opened at “ evens,” and, lining
up, odds on, made the running over every inch, and
romped home easily first. Opposition included such fine
performers as Santoi, Durham, Street Arab, and Aqua.
Bandolier made hacks of everything else in the Derby,
and qualified for the coin in 2.42 2-s—a record for that
particular section of the Commonwealth, Bandolier is
by Light Artillery from Queensdale.
* * * *
A “selling race” at a Victorian centre.
Three horses start in the race—Carmine, Whirlwind,
and Spring. Carmine is not wanted to win, and to
make certain that he won’t, he is weighed out about
71b. short. The owner of Whirlwind knows Carmine
is “dead,” and thinks he will deaden Spring and
back Whirlwind ; and he does. Whirlwind rapidly
shortens to 3 to X on, owner of Spring laying
most of the money. Owner of Whirlwind finding
market gone, and knowing also that Carmine is
dead and short weight, takes £l5 to 3 Spring, and
gives his jockey the necessary instructions to run any-
where but first. The three horses start, Carmine
leads all the way cantering—jockey can afford to be
reckless as he is short weight. Eider of Whirl-
wind looks round anxiously at the hard-pulling
Spring who seems anxious to have a cut in but can’t.
Whirlwind moves up to Carmine, but Carmine
canters in a winner by a neck. The rider of Whirlwind
jogs back quickly to paddock, pulls the saddle off his
horse and rushes to the bar to have a drink. Stewards
declare Carmine short weight and look round for second
horse. He is also disqualified for unsaddling out of place.
Spring can’t get the race as he did not complete the
course. Race declared off. All bets declared off.
Disgusted smart men get part of their money back, a
bookie having levanted with the rest. Left stating dis-
gustedly that the country is ruined by socialistic legisla-
tion.
* * * *
A grinning Maori jock, with a mouth like a
crater, and tent-flap ears, turned up lately at Masterton
trots, robed in a blue jacket, with the Union Jack pinned
back and front, and kharki pants. He won mid the wild
enthusiasm of the natives, but whether they were
cheering the rider, the Union John, or the dividend
wasn’t apparent.
* * * *
George Hirst has a plum in store for him. The
Yorkshire Cricket Club promises him a benefit next year
—the most popular match of the local season (v. Lan-
cashire), commencing on the August bank holiday.
Given fine weather for the three days, the beneflciare will
get fully £l5OO. It pays better to be a first-class English
county cricketer than a “ crack ” Australian Elevener.
* * * *
Only 7000 looked on opening of N.S.W.-Victoria
cricket match in Melbourne, Saturday. Play was slow and
methodical and generally on the lines of what has been
inflicted so much this season, and was consequently
wearying. Bowling was off, as a rule, and fielding be-
came loose as the afternoon wore. Victorians operated
first on an excellent wicket, and might have heaped up a
big pile of runs, but they didn’t try much and, though
most got set, a careless or a weak attempt usually
brought about dismissal—the tired feeling effect of the
heat was upon all. Beginning looked like disaster,
M'Beth’s first ball beat Bruce badly. Two were down
for 66, McAlister occupied 1 hour 7m. getting 34, Arm-
strong 38mins. longer making 44 and Trott "(who was
shaping well) lh. 28m. putting 38 together—he was
caught low down at point by Noble. Three runs further
on Giller went—s for 132; with everything favorable to
the bat it was unaccountable. Next wicket didn’t fall
till 216 showed. Laver’s compilation was 49 in lh. 13m.
At 237 Stukey succumbed—7 for 276 at stumps draw
There was no play on Monday, owing to rain. •
* * * Jg
“B.”: The team which played for Victoria in
the Inter-State match against N.S.W. had a dug-up look.
Veteran Trott re-appeared, as did back-number Giller.
Hughie Trumble and Chas. M'Leod had both practically
retired, and Harry Stuckey, who was announced as a non-
player this season, dropped casually into the team.
* * * *
The action of N.S.W. selection committee in
choosing 11 young players to represent N.S.W. against
Queensland (for this fixture above all others offers the
opportunity) was justified after all by the runs (334) home
side accumulated in first innings, Saturday. This easily
tops the best made by either Queensland or N.S.W. in
same match on same ground last year, and is better than
any score since performance of N.S.W.’s best team at
Brisbane four years ago. Though a better combination,
and perhaps one or two more just as good, might have
been picked, it wasn’t plain to the close observer that the
State was weakly represented ; men were all good run-
getters and “fields,” and the worst bat was no worse
than two or three who readily find places among the
State’s crack lot. Things looked blue at one stage. First
wicket (Blaxland’s) was down for 48, and at 105 five men
had gone back to the pavilion. Hickson was at work
70min. for his 50, and gathered the only couple of fives of
the day. Black made his first showing in inter-State
matches, and notched 72. Fielding of visiting side wasn’t
near the thing, otherwise it wouldn’t have had to face
anything like the score set it. Aboriginal Henry
bowled very erratioallv. Left-handers Byrnes and Miller
(also Griffiths) did well, and would have done much better
but for poor fielding.
* * * •
Sid Gregory’s 152 against South Australia, last
week, occupied but 3hrs., and included 24 fours. Noble’s
147, compiled in 3hr. 22m., embraced one five and 18 fours.
Looks as if Gregory is picking up his old form, and isany-
thing but the “ has been ” alleged. Four big matches to
time of writing have seen 25, 57, 23, 43 and 152 to his
credit; besides, in the field, he is class enough for any
combination. At 33 (provided he looks after himself)
“Sid” should be good enough for forefront cricket
throughout several seasons yet.
* * * *
Australian old man cricketer George Giffen has
surely lagged superfluous as a bowler. So far, present
season, his bag is one wicket at a cost of 263 runs. Last six
innings which saw him opposed to N.S.W. he secured
two for 522.
* 9 * *
The wicket used for N.S.W.-Vic. match, pro-
gressing as The Bulletin goes to press, is made of Bulli
(N.S.W.) soil, specially taken over because the locally-
obtained article has shown considerable falling off
during past few years.
* * * *
The idea of providing an international tinpot
to hold the imaginary “ ashes ” in connection with
Australia v. England test matches, has met the deserving
fate of a knock-out blow. Already there’s enough trouble
over a couple of cricket trophies in Australia—which have
mostly to be kept locked up on account of their value ;
and the inauguration of a rich Gup would only be another
source of woe. Besides, what a deal of heartburning it
would cause as to which State should have the right of
hiding it!
• * * *
“Euroa”: Re Hugh Stone’s par (8., 17/12703).
In my cricketing days the umpire always carried a bat.
It was a recognised thing for him to have a strike while
awaiting the coming of another batsman, or during any
interval whatever; and, besides, a bat was a tower of
strength to the umpire who gave a decision which did not
meet with the approval of the other side’s barrackers.
Still, I recognise that a machine-gun would be better.
* *' # «
London Times on recent test match:—“The
outburst of temper on the part of Sydney ‘larrikins’
against the decision of Crockett is to be regretted.”
Which is rough on the Panama hat, ninepenny-cigar
push in the Members’ Pavilion, which raised most of the
disturbance.
* * * *
Although the Victorians complain of the lack
of new blood in their State team, they showed very little
interest in the doings of 18 Juniors versus the English-
men. The M.O.C. pavilion and grand-stand were empty
when the “ boys ” began their batting, and such applause
as they received from the meagre sixpenny crowd wa 8
mostly satirical. Yet in one respect the local talene
seemed to have a pull over the visitors. Their bowling
W. A . TRENWITH ,
who headed the Senate poll in Victoria.
was on the wicket. Six of the Englishmen were legiti-
mately beaten by a ball that hit the stumps, whereas only
three out of 14 Juniors (three were run out) succumbed
to a clean bowl in their first innings.
* * » *
Grace, who captained the Vic. Juniors against
the English, and batted very well, is the Grace formerly
revered by Melb, football barraokers as champion goal-
kicker
* Hs * *
The general remark in Adelaide concerning
cricket is: If Noble and co. can’t get our second-best
batsmen out for a reasonable figure, how on earth is
England ever to be got out at all—unless Hugh Trumble
is to do all the work? All the same, S.A. cricket pro-
mises better now than for some years past, and wagers
are being made that the State gets four men in the
1905 Australian Eleven for England.
* * * *
Gate (£4274 10s.) in connection with first test
mateh was cut up thus: Marylebone O.C. and N.S.W.
Cricket Association £1521195. each, and Sydney Cricket
Ground £1230 lls. Association ha 3 to pay £650 for
ground exes, etc., out of its whack. At moment of
writing, trustees of the ground and the State’s cricket
governing body are at outs again through former handing
Marylebone C.C.’s portion of the spoil direct to the team’s
manager instead of to the Association, which, ’tis insisted,
has full control of the N.S.W. portion of the tour. Looks
as if there’ll now always be friction between ground and
Association people, and the fact won’t benefit cricket
much. Sooner the whole thing is handed over to the
N.S.W.O.A. the better it will be for all and everything
concerned.
* * * *
A walking record has been put up by Regnet in
a match from Bordeaux to Paris, 375 miles. He covered
the distance in 114 hrs. 42 min.—averaging about 80 milch
a day.
* * 9 *
Recently deceased, at the age of 47, Queensland
sport, Mr. Ernest Winter, was most prominent in rowing,
whereat he first, competed 24 years ago, and, last, early
this year. Mr. Winter figured successfully in State
champion fours and eights, and stroked first Q. crew (got
together by himself) in inter-State eight-oar race 18 years
since, and eight years later filled a similar position.
He was also stroke of Queensland four in Victorian cham-
pion event on the Yarra, November 9,1889, and had con-
siderable to do with the big sculling carnival held in
Brisbane in 1888, when world-famed Searle, Beach, Kemp,
Stanbury, Neil Matterson and co. competed.
* * * *
Details of recent match (in London) between
“ Russian Lion ” George Hackenschmidt and “ Terrible
Greek ” Pierri, for world’s ’rastling supremacy, show the
contest to have been quite a fashionable affair. Ladies
mustered largely, and swellest families in England were
represented. Twenty - four - year - old Hackenschmidt
proved too tough and had too much “stay’’for his 17
years senior Pierri, whose wiles kept him going longer
than did his physical powers. Russian proved a veritable
Hercules. Hackenschmidt won the first fall (Grseco-
Roman) in I7min. llsec., and second (cateh-as-catch-can)
in 15min. 25sec.
* * * *
“X.”: Major Taylor hasn’t got the huge picnic
on that many people imagine. His legs and riding capa-
bilities are sold to a syndicate which negotiates for him ;
and he cannot compete in a race without the sanction of
this syndicate. Therein he has a great pull over Yankee
visitors Lawson, McFarland and Downing. It doesn’t
matter so much to Taylor whether he is defeated or not
in bike races, he scoops in the “ appearance ” money ;
whilst the other Yankees have to depend mainly on the
prizes. By the way, Taylor, being a “colored” person,
should be doubly challenged by the Australian Govern-
ment laws—as colored alien and immigrant under con-
tract.
* * * *
The oft-chimed “splendid condition” theory
didn’t pan out correctly in connection with Major Taylor
at Christchurch (M.L.) meeting last week. The cable
told that he had kept himself in splendid condition, and
with a ride or so on the track would be as well as ever.
However, as Taylor was defeated by Sutherland in a two-
mile scratch race, his form doesn’t seem too good, since
the M.L. champion has never shown any speed out of the
ordinary. Taylor will certainly improve, but the
“ splendid condition” preliminary advt. should be used
with more discretion.
* * * *
On his initial appearance at M.L. last week
Major Taylor began his systematic grumbling re being
“ blocked.” Somehow, these alleged great riders always
resort to the same paltry excuse when beaten ; and the
quibble grows sickening. Lawson (another Yankee)
paraded a similar grievance at Coolgardie t’other
Saturday. Amongst Australian riders the “blocked”
grievance is seldom heard—each rider being satisfied to
take the luck as it comes. Taylor, in particular, should
be the last to grumble, since his mode of riding when
bunched leads either to smash or success.
* * * *
R. Arnst, winner of this year’s M:L. Wheel
Race, is one of the Arnst brothers, who are always so
formidable in long-distance road racing. There were 44
starters, and he had a handicap of 110yds. Starting from
scratch later in the day, he dead-heated with Watson in
another two-mile handicap.
» * * *
How are the mighty fallen ! At Sydney Golden
Gate A. 0., Saturday night, one-time crack lightweight,
“Friday” O’Neill (hog-fat, listless, and without the
smallest outward indication of having done anything in
the way of preparation), proved a soft snap for black Joe
Walcott—little better than a novice. Though O’Neill had
a decided pull up to then, one punch on the jaw in the
third round caused him to quit in his corner, where he
was tended on by another light of years ago (Mick
Dooley), who has also let himself down with a run.
Dooley was the stepping-stone to world’s fame for Jack-
son, Slavin and Goddard, and was only second in point
of skill to the first-named when that past-master was at
his top.
* * * *
“M‘G. An institution of interest to tech-
nical education enthusiasts, ethnologists, and followers
of the ring has been established at Fremantle by three
members of the famous pugilistic Duggan farmly, erst-
while of South Melbourne. The Duggans pitched their
training quarters close to the aboriginal camp ac
Fremantle, and the nigs began to display such an
interest in the game that they were one day permitted,
for purposes of gentle leg-pulling, to put ’em on. noon
the whole tribe was hard at it acquiring the upper-cut,
the half-arm jolt and straight jab, and out of a mass of
chaff the Duggans winnowed two grains of pug'hstic
wheat in the persons of Jacky and Wandi, full-blooded
blackpfellers. Jacky and Wandi, who are in the light-
weight division, were initiated into the mysteries of the
jaw and the solar plexus, and they were entered for their
pugilistic matriculation a couple of weeks back, when
successively matched against Dido Plumb. Jacky failed
to uphold the honor of Australia, but showed smartness,
hitting power, and—most important of all—gameness and
capacity to take punishment. Wandi, regarded as "he
better of the pair, is now out to avenge his brudder s
defeat. The Duggans aver they have some excellent raw
material among these aborigines, and threaten to turn
out within six months a heavyweight capable of downing
Peter Felix. But the exquisite Peter would probably
draw the color line, on the ground that a cultured colored
gemman with a frock coat and a belltopper could never
demean himself by entering the ring with a common
savage.
* * * *
Continent’s champion welter weight (10.7) pug
George Johns (still only a youngster), finding his occupa-
tion completely gone through being carefully avoided by
all fighters within half a stone of him, has determined to
retire and concentrate his muscular power on beer-pump
pulling. Johns was a Sydney waterman till he took to
the fighting business, at which he punched his way into
fame very quickly. He remained idle, and challenged
frequently but vainly, for a whole year. He is among
the cleverest, most aggressive, and best stayers at his
poundage Australia has known. A pity that such a man
should have to retire for lack of chopping-blocks, with
years more of good in him. Probability is that he’ll lie
by for months, get rusty, and come out again and be
badly licked.
* * * *
Biggest bruising thing Sydney has had for some
time takes place at National S.C., Tuesday next, with
globe-trotter Dan Creedon and Australian bandsman,
“Soldier Thompson” (his name is Yercoe), as principals.
Oreedon is much above t’other man in science, apd will
probably serve out heaps of punishment in first few
rounds, and perhaps “ get him ” ; but Thompson’s
chance isn’t at all bad, for, barring a sufficiently forceful
blow on the right spot, he will stand punishment and
last too, which Oreedon may not, if the thing goes over
half-a-dozen rounds. Oreedon, a few years ago, would
have found Thompson decidedly soft, but Creedon, as he
is to-day, may find him a very stiff task. Match is
creating widespread interest, and promises excitement.
* * * *
Right between crack lightweights Tim Hegarty
and Charlie Frost, at Sydney National 5.0., was vigorous
throughout. Each went for the other with contempt for
possibilities that often surprised, and, despite Hegarty’s
exceptional footwork and skilful head-shifting, Frost
frequently managed to jab home a straight left that
wasn’t over clever. Hegarty rarely blocked when he
countered, and generally treated the enemy with scant
respect. In the eighth round a right on the jaw made
Frost bump the boards and stay there 9secs. Later same
man was spreadeagled again and was “ out” but for “cor-
ners." Next round brought the end early, a right hook
on the jaw rendering Frost oblivious to surroundings,
and a fair amount of coin was gathered in by the
Hegarty party, which laid 2 to 1 on. Manner in which one
of Frost's seconds (quite new at the game) picked his
principal up and dragged him along to his chair at gong
sound after the eighth round helped materially towards
the end.
* * * »
A slab of ’Murkan reporting. New York
Journal’s tribute to word’s champion : “James
Jeffries, of Los Angelos, Cal., is unquestionably monarch
of the brute creation. The hairy-breasted gorilla of the
Pacific Slope has twice beaten the trained chimpanzee
Corbett to submission ; has twice hammered the speckled
kangaroo Fitzsimmons to a condition of admiring meek-
ness ; has twice fractured the dorsal fin of the marine
broncho Sharkey ; has caved in the slats of the human
turnip Ruhlin, and reduced lesser brutes to various con-
ditions of physical wreck. Jeffries is in exactly the
pitiable condition of Alexander the Great, who grieved
himself to death because there were no more worlds to
conquer. Jeff, won’t grieve himself to death. He will
use alcohol as a substitute for grief, and the effects will
be even more deadly. A year or so before he is
thoroughly pickled by the rum treatment Jef. will meet
some gawk from Squashville, who never tasted anything
stronger than sweet cider. About the fourteenth round
the champion will be officially counted out.”
* * * *
A lately returned Maoriland tripper was much
impressed with the way they ran races at Moscow. The
starter is the most important man on the track. Togged
out in a gorgeous livery, he drives to the post in state,
flanked by an official on either side. The starting gate is'
used, but in a way undreamt of out here. The neddies
are taken a couple of hundred yards from the machine
and sent away. The hindmost are given a chance to get
even with the leaders ere they get to the barrier, which
is released on their approach. The race is then con-
sidered started. When the starter thinks himself com-
petent to do without the barrier the send-off usually re-
sembles that of a menagerie race at a country sports
shivoo, and backers use long words in a thick, loud voice
to express their feelings. The best thing about the
Russian racing system relates to cronkness; the Mus-
covites go to the extent of extracting saliva from a
horse’s mouth for analysis if they suspect the animal has
been drugged. Disqualification for life from all courses
in the empire, with gaol for “ ringing in,” is their method
of flattening out the clever brigade.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— A loud “Amen!” to the
words of “ J.F.D.” (8., 12/11/03) anent that soulless indi-
vidual, the pigeon-assassin. With him class the coursing
man, who finds an ecstatic joy in chasing the life out of
an animal that does little harm while it is alive, and
doesn’t taste nice when it is dead, though the fact that
the coursing man is to some extent tolerated by his dog
possibly shows that he is a little higher in the human
scale than the other. Few pigeon-killers have a physique
that a self-respecting sparrow would care to own ; and to
see a p.k. slouching home from a match with his hands
in his pockets, while a boy follows in the rear with his
gun and mangled birds, is to realise what vertical worms
some clothes do hide.— Grant Hervey.
* * * *
An up-country parson in S.A. has introduced,
for the first time in Australia, the game of vigoro. Vigoro
is a mixture of rounders, tennis, and cricket—mostly
cricket. The wicket is a hoop, which sounds like croquet,
and the scoring is the same as in cricket. The bowler
bowls with a racket, the batsman (or batswoman) bats
with a racket, and the fielders have rackets also. The
ball must not be touched with the hands.
Biliousness.
There are few complaints that go to make life
not worth living worse than biliousness. The
coated tongue, bad taste in the mouth, belching of
wind from the stomach, yellow complexion,
jaundiced eye, all testify to the disordered con-
dition of the stomach caused by the bile not being
properly carried away. Dr. Morse's Indian Root
Pills touch theliverasnootherremedy does, cleans-
ing the system of allimpurities, makingthe stomach
clean and pure. They assist nature in the dis-
charge of all her functions, increase the appetite,
produce sound sleep, and give elasticity to the
spirits. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a per-
manent and positive cure for all liver and kidney
ailments. Packed in amber bottles, and sold
throughout Australasia.*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE >» LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
LUCKY CHARMS and TRINKETS for the NEW YEAR.
1000 Varieties—the Largest and Most Novel Assortment In Australia.
Lovely Turquoise Enamelled
Lucky Frogs, 5/-
g),
_a‘i‘K-x V.
. 75f VA:
9%?
Solid Gold Starboard,
Port or Masthead
Lights, 10/-
‘4
A’
i .
'2\
‘1
.- _
C! 4‘ . T
@J
" :uifi. ’
Beautiful Enamelled
Lucky Old Boot, 3/-
é
Solid Gold Enamel Harp
and Shamrock, 10/6
in},
A A ,
iii!"
, J,
__. W
' ,/
. I
Thu.
Latest Novelty.
Turquoise Enamelled
Grandfather’s Clock.
A Perfect Model. 6/«
Uj
Any of these Charms with Gold Bead Pin and Chain,
!• extra.
The Goldsmiths & Silversmiths Alliance, Ltd.
90 KING ST., SYDNEY
(Immediately next door to the Fresh
Food and Ice Company’s Tea Rooms).
v 6
E
Continental
Caoutchouc and
Guttapercha Co.,
HANOVER
Q.
vd
■U
H
MAKERS 0F.......
Continental Motor Tyres (Winners of Cordon Bennett Cup, 1003)
“Wallace” Continental Bicycle Tyres
“Wallace” Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
Total Yearly Output—NEARLY ONE MILLION TYRES.
DEPOT AT_
Wallace Pneumatic Tyre Co.,
274 Flinders St., Melbourne.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Makers of All Kinds of Rubber Goods, such as
STEAH HOSE
DRILL HOSE
BREWERS' HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
SOLID SHEET
VALVES
PACKINGS
GLOVES
INSERTION SHEET
BILLIARD RUBBERS
FOOTBALL BLADDERS
RUBBER BELTING
RINGS and BANDS
PATENT TUBING
GAS TUBING
I.R. BALLS
General Agents for Australia'
HESSELMANN & CO.
34 Queen St.,
bourne
$343
THE BICYCLE YOU SHOULD BUY.
The 1903 Model RED BIRD BICYCLE
Wh!ii f c 0 L Spe v ed f n 4 d , Stren " th - Ever y P art of a RISI > BIRD can be duplicated. The Bearings and Chain-
Second-Han^Bicycles acCura^e * thus the RED BIRD runs very easily and lasts for years. Cash or terms,
taken in Part Payment.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St., Sydney
Timi Kara (“Jimmie” Carroll), M.L.
Native Minister, and himself a half-caste Maori,
woke up the other evening in the House of Reps.J
and made the finest speech of the session in an.
appeal to Parliament to “do justice to a noble
race”—to give more time and trouble to the
improvement of the Maori. “Timi,” who, when,
he makes the effort, is easily the nearest approach
an orator in the House, was as graceful as ever
and his metaphors were strikingly beautiful!
-but, lethargic for many years past, he is getting-
very tired and worn-looking now, and the recent
departure of a grizzled moustache has not changed
the impression of his weary face.
Upon present appearances the White Man
?" d “ ,e ? rown may begin to belt each other in.
the North at any moment. The sympathies of'
Australian democrats must needs go with the*
white man—however bad a lot he may be.
Australasia is a lonely outpost of the white race.’.
, 116 r ac ? may n °t have arrived here too honestly
but it is here. It is threatened by yellow men.
outside and by treacherous Tories and frantic*
booksellers from within. The great danger-
always hanging over Australia is an irruption of
tbe colored races that will overlay and finally-
obliterate our white lineage, and destroy our-
white traditions, and wipe out our present beau-
tiful facial resemblance to Edward VII. and Joe
Chamberlain. Britain may ally itself with the
Jap or the Chinaman or the baboon, but paper
and ink arrangements are temporary and this,
question is permanent.
the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY'
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is "Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Pqlace,”
situated at 50 KINO STREET, and near the General Post.
Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
advertised last week that a Bar of
Williams’ Barbers’ Soap
Weighed “16 Honest English Ounces.”
WE WEBE WBONG, and we desire to thank our
friends the Customs Authorities for putting us right.
The Collector at the Port rules that on every case
containing 100 Bars of Williams’ Shaving Soap (each
Bar being sold to our friend the Barber as A POUND
'OF SIXTEEN OUNCES)
WE MUST PAY DUTY ON A WEIGHT OF 114lbS.
Wm
WILLIAMS’ is the only
SHAVING SOAP that pays
DUTY on a greater weight
than the Barber pays for.
THE PRICE PER BAR
REMAINS THE SAME.
As go<jd citizens vve cheerfully contribute the extra 3/6
per case to the Commonwealth Revenue. The Agents,
The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.. U.S.A.
SHARPSHOOTIMg
m
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Paoes.loo Illustrations, 1/. nett •
Posted, 1/2. *
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
■ Fyou wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars oil
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 c ° ,,lns Street, Melbourne.
(Greener s Representative).
HERE’S A BARGAIN.
This New
fashionable mount
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch /
Post Free. *j/ m
Black, White, Cream,
-or Black tipped with White
•w Worth Twice the Money
Wrtte To-day. Send Postal Note
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
'Corner Boutko ft Swnneton St.,*,ibooral
[Mention Thb Bulletin.]
m
Q
u
E
E
N
S
T
• '•
CHAS GILBERT’S
ABOUT MAIL ORDERS
DID you read particulars of my offer in last week's
44 Bulletin '' to refund Half, Third and Quarter
Cash, respectively, to the three customers sending
the biggest orders reaching me by Jan. 16th } If not,
make a point of doing so; the offer is absolutely a
bona fide one, or CHAS. GILBERT wouldn't advertise it,
I should like to send you some of my samples of Suitings,
if you’ll drop me a line. I’ll please you with the fit and
guarantee you
11 Money’s Worth or Money Back
»
4%;
M
n
i
s
B
A
In
E
•' •
3 PEG] ALI TIES
The Bulletin is still inquiring anxiously
for that alleged Freetrader who doesn’t find his
creed too dirty for daily use. Here, for instance,
is the printed shriek of Liddell, the new Freetrade
member for the Hunter (N.S.W.): —
In announcing myself as a candidate, I do so as a sup-
porter of the Right Hon. George Reid, whom I regard as
the leader of the great Liberal party of Australia. ... I
am opposed to a tariff system which, by the operation of
protective duties, will create monopolies and lead to the
formation of a commercial aristocracy at the expense of
the poor man. . . . Nevertheless, I am a Protectionist,
namely, in the sense that would nourish and further true
colonial industries. By colonial industries I mean all the
industries of Australia—specially those great industries
connected with the soil—the agricultural, the pastoral,
the mining industries. These native industries I would,
by careful adjustment of the tariff, assist to the utmost.
In other words, Freetrader Liddell holds that
Protection is a bad, injurious thing, and promises
to damage his own constituents with it as much
as possible, and the Hunter farmers, on his pro-
mise to get them the horrors of Protection, cor-
dially voted for him on the Freetrade ticket.
For more than two months George Turner,
“the little man in the shabby brown suit and
cheap spectacles,” has run the Commonwealth of
Australia on his own. He has done it all in a quiet,
modest way which should put toshamethe pompous
swaggering of the “sound business man ” running
a shoddy shop—the man who is eternally being
pointed to by the Tory crowd as the one to whom
the Commonwealth should be handed over body
and soul. Turner is just a little solicitor with a
decent family consulting practice. He has two
dingy little rooms on the first floor of a ramshackle
old building in Collins-st. There he spends his
time from nine o’clock till about one in the after-
noon. He catches a tram to Parliament House,
has a plain lunch, and toddles across to the
Treasurer’s office. From two o’clock till six he sits
and polishes off the papers brought to him by the
heads of the Treasury, Defence, Home Affairs,
Foreign Affairs, Customs, Attorney-General’s
and Postmaster-General’s departments. “I’m a
sort of political barber saying ‘Next please,’ ” he
remarked the other day.
“ Croyez ” : I vote for Cromwell as the
name of our Commonwealth capital. Cromwell
and Commonwealth to me suggest one another.
The closing scenes of the Victorian Par-
liament were badly splashed over with bullying
Bentisms. Bent had passed an Unused Roads
Bill through the Assembly, providing for the
leasing of all unused roads in the State. The
Legislative Council banged it about until it was
as shapeless as Bent himself. Then Bent tried to
get the Council’s amendments through the
Assembly, regardless of the fact that, in one case
at least, the Council had stepped outside its legal
rights and had invaded the privileges of the
Assembly. For a wonder, Peacock and Duffy
protested against this proposal, and Bent, Peacock
and Speaker Beazley came into violent collision.
Bent became so blusterous that when Premier
Irvine rushed into the House to prevent a free
fight, Bent opposed a motion moved by Irvine to
overcome the trouble. Thomas also insulted the
Speaker, and had to apologise. At one time
Bent was Speaker himself, and was accustomed to
say, whenever his ruling was challenged on con-
stitutional grounds, “Well, that’s my ruling for
the present. It will do for to-night. ”
Few men have a better knowledge of the
working of the Lands Acts than has Land Agent
W. N. Willis, of 21 Bligh-street. Payment by
results is not only reasonable but also novel.*
Bryan (TLoghlen, who rushed into the
Senate fray in Victoria at the last minute, and
then stood quite still while the battle raged
around him, didn’t do so badly after all. He beat
George Wise and Harry Williams, although
everybody prophesied that he would lose his
deposit. As a fact, none of the Senate candidates
lost their deposits. They all polled more than
one-fifth of the number polled by the lowest suc-
cessful man. When in the Assembly, O’Loghlen
used to go about with a want-of-confidence motion
hanging out of one coat-tail and a tattered scheme
for raising a loan of 40 or 50 millions bulging out
of the other.
New Year's
Greeting
to all
Cyclists
1
*E
m
m
Ring Out tbe news
DUNIQP TYRES‘
OUTPACE & OUTLAST
• • All Other* Tyres
FOR EITHER ROAD OR TRACK RIDING.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for Twelve Months.
THB m D ,k NLOP o PNEUMATIC TYRE^CoT^rAUSTRALASIA LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch (N.Z.)
N.S.W. House ;
150 Clarence St.,
Sydney.


* w.
>
’V
V 0
6°
VO
\®
\<b
4*
vfc
&
<0
\©
V-
V®
<\S>
v®*
vO
v*
V®
❖
\0
<o
v'O
.A®
V®
vl°
<o
vve
<o
x>
<v
//
if!
»
“ Kati-Kati ” writes to the wife about
“ The Husband ”: —
Now that you have got him, he is no longer your lover
—he is your husband.
And you will have to make the best of him.
For the best will be none too good.
He is only human now.
And is very fond of comfort.
Hid you ever keep pigs?
Did you ever notice how contented they are when they
are full ?
Man is the same.
Treat him as a pig.
Fill him up.
Before you caught him, he was like the lark carolling
in the sky.
You heard the song, but you did not feed the singer.
Now you have him in your hands he needs a lot of
looking after, and there is not much singing.
But never mind.
You were determined to have him, or another very
much like him.
If you have one at all, which you have is a matter ot
indifference.
You. would not have been happy without one.
You will not be happy with one.
But your destiny had to be fulfilled.
Now you have him, keep him.
And do not talk him to death.
You are a woman, and must talk.
Or burst.
But let him talk too.
Let him air his ignorance.
He has plenty of it.
Enough to sink a ship.
Be thou content with three-quarters of the conversation.
And the last word. j
Aiwa vs get the last word.
Nothing will make a man realise his inferiority sooner
than a defeat in the struggle for the last word.
It is the best of arguments.
In some ways treat him as though you were still trying
to catch him.
You used to remember his birthdays.
Do not forget them now.
Get him something which will give him pleasure.
He used to say that the greatest pleasure of his life was
to see you happy.
Get iiim a new bonnet for yourself.
He will see you happy, and enjoy one of the greatest
pleasures of his life.
Remember that he is only a grown-up baby.
And that he has not changed much in the growing-up.
Do not forget to treat him as one.
He does not need feeding so often.
But he needs more at a time.
That is the main difference.
Let him have what he wants.
But do not let him want anything that you do not
want him to have. .
It is likely that to have the idea that he is running the
show will give him pleasure.
Let him have the idea while you have the rest.
He wants to smoke in the house.
Then let him do so.
If you wanted a house like an old maid’s, you should
have remained single, or married a woman.
But you have married a man.
Who is three-quarters animal, and one-quarter baby.
And a baby is one-quarter animal and three-quarters
howl.
Then do not expect him to act as a lady.
If he did the house would be unbearable with the
chatter of the two of you.
Let him smoke in the house—and you do the talking.
You are always well able.
Except when you are dead.
He enjoys smoking in the house.
Let him have some enjoyment while you are alive.
COLIC IN CHILDREN
can be relieved and cured by giving them Cham-
berlain's Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy. One or
two doses are usually sufficient. Sold every where
at Is. Gd.*
THE
LONDON”
m
42/- TO ORDER.
SMART
CLOTHES
For Summer are what we are showing—they are
the best and dressiest that it is possible to make.
There must be extraordinary merit in these
“LONDON” 42/- SUITS
to have gained the reputation they have among
smartly-dressed men for style and quality of
material. We guarantee a perfect fit if you send
for one of our Measurement Forms, together with
a selection of Patterns —Post Free.
LONDON TAILORING
DEPOT,
OPP. G.P.0., riELBOURNE
(ONLY ADDRESS IN THE STATES).
PURE LIME-FRUIT JUICE
DO yOU DR.INK LIME JUICE ?
i m
THEN DWfNK TOE BEST
Aeents —Elliott Bros., L.td., J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen >&. Co., Newcastle.
m
Eureema Ointment.
A Special Cure for ECZEMA and other
SKIN DISEASES.
Splendid testimonials held. In jars, 2s. and 3s. 6d. If
your chemist does not keep it send 2d. for free sample
and full particulars to
HARDEN & CO., Agents for Australia,
34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dr. Ricord’s Marvellous Medicine
5/- Bottle; Postage 1/-
CURES PILES
Bleeding, Itching, &c.
Skin and Blood Diseases.
Write for Free Booklets.
Agents:— Formont & Co., 51 Queen Street, Melbourne.
. . (Beddome & Co.,Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Sub-Agents | Faulding & Co., Sydney, Adelaide, Perth-
j \tftrtHcts' throughout Grtat Britain and CtUnU&
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
I produce an attack. You can
eat. sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and rer
construction. Appetite improved; blood nerve*
strengthened i whole system built up; hte made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma Fever PaUerdfl K*-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: DR. P. HAROLD HaYKS'ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE
Buffalo, N. Y.. U. 8. A.
means
DANGER!
Wilson’s
Commonsense
Ear Drums
mean relief and
SAFETY
Send a postcard to day for
descriptive booklet (costed
free) .giving testimonialsfrom
Australian users. Established
8 years: sales largely increas-
ing. Address: J. Chalmers,
229-231 Collins St., Melbourne
Prevention and Cure
of Consumption.
Read article by F. Matthias Alexander in Syd-
ney Daily Telegkaph, Saturday, 12th December.
Particulars regarding the author’s book will be
found on page 29 of this issue.


A hash-lady’s moan :
A few weeks ago there was a par in The Bulletin to the
effect that boarding-house-keepers object to children in
the house. They DO. Married people who board pay for
themselves, and expect the kid’s board and lodging to be
thrown in gratis. The married lydy who boards is
usually a lazy, vain woman, who won’t look after her
husband arid child. She breakfasts in bed, and at 11.80
she appears painted and peroxided for the day. The
husband is a hunted wretch, loaded with debt; he
boards because his goods and chattels have been sold-for
the benefit of his creditors. He can’t pay people to wait
on his wife and mirid his child; so his idea is that the
hash-house can serve as a sort of unpaid parent to his
off pring. When mamma takes the offspring out she
thumps it and gives it instructions to call her “Alice,”
so that people will take her for its elder sister. The
boarding-house-keeper is usually a widow with a family,
and when she finds herself perpetually falling over a
strange infant, whose painted mother is in bed, it gets on
her nerves.
“ Marat ” : Think the Government should
stop the erection of the pill-box cottages —two
rooms, kitchen and bath—which are being run up
by speculative builders in Sydney suburbs. They
have much to do with the decreasing birth-rate.
Newly-married couples take them, and are afraid
to raise a family on account of not having room
to swing an infant. One “pill-box” occupant
informed me once that they hadn’t room for any
more children, “and the cottage is such a dear
little place, we couldn’t leave it.” If Shak-
speare’s parents had lived in a two-roomed house
under the same conditions there would have been
no Shakespere. Think of a landlord being
allowed to build cottages in which there is no
room for Shakspeare !
A Sydney bootmarr recently had on view
a battered boot of his manufacture, which he
alleged had just been taken from the stomach of
a captured shark. He proved by the date of
the owner’s disappearance, that the splendidly
durable article must have withstood the shark’s
efforts to digest it for fully six months. The
opposition bootmaker, three doors away, imme-
diately responded to the new move. He p*it a
large placard in his front window (red letters on
a green background), and the passers-by rushed
it. It read:
Our boots are so easy and comfortable that a purchaser
does not commit suicide to escape the torture which an
ill-fitting boot brings to its unfortunate wearer. We are
not sorry, therefore, that we cannot show samples of
our footgear taken from the stomachs of sharks. None
of our customers have as yet been driven to throw them-
selves overboard through the pain in their feet.
And the other man gave a mighty cur.-e and
heaved the show boot into the backyard.
“ C.A.R.0.” tells of a cheap sale :
Last week I had some odd pennies left out of an attenu-
ated allowance, and, being possessed of superabundant
energy, decided to make a day of it, with- a crony, at a
certain cheap sale. I donned a short skirt, flannel blouse,
and hat well inured to crushes, and caught an early boat
Met my companion in “ fairing,” and looked at her
askance. A trailing skirt, daintiest of blouses, and won-
drous hat look beautiful, but —— We hesitated on the
threshold where the flaunting advertisements were, but
were swept in to where there was semi-darkness and a
heaving of countless women.and many breaths. Despair-
ingly I went with the tide. Presently, wedged between
a corpulent Irish woman and a weary assistant, I tried to
get up some interest in the soiled, dragged and crushed
remnants on the counter. I was shaking out a crumpled
length, when a hand flashed before me, a sharp nail
scored deeply across my wrist, and the silk vanished in
the clutches of a female grimly triumphant. I meditated
many wicked thoughts. Noticed a table of light-colored,
woollen scarves, mostly torn. “ Moths,” I queried.
“ No-o,” said a tired girl, “ they are dragged so by the
ladies.” I drifted hopelessly, elbowed, hustled and
trodden on till the lust of war rose within me, and then I
battled manfully with a cadaverous female for a packet
of rusty hair pins, and conquered, even as Scipio did
when he licked Hannibal. At last, in a back wash, I was
swept near a doorway, and after a last wild charge over
children’s spades and buckets and a shop walker, I
gained the street. There I found my companion weeping
and dishevelled and with no purchases. After using
most of my hard-won hair-pins in repairing damages, we
came home gingerly, and by many by-paths.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies al.
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there maj; be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don't say perhaps j but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for theregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright!.
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
Reynolds’s
Newspaper
Keeps the Democratic Flag
flying all'over the World.
HSA.O IT.
JOHN DICKS - - - Strand, London, W.C.
2
SHREDDED WHEAT.
TRISCITIT,
The dainty, electric-baked substitute for bread, toast,
biscuits. For use with butter, &c., at every meal. Put
in hot oven to crisp before using.
Use also Shredded Wheat Biscuit with milk or
fruit, instead of porridge, pudding, or pastry.
All grocers. Sole Agent—
J. HENDERSON, 117 Collins Street, flelbourne.
BONANZA PACKET BEERS
Brew Your Own Beer!
Ordinary Household Utensils.
Non-Intoxicating-. No Salicylic. Pure Hops, Herbs*
and Fruit Extracts.
No Trouble. No Yeast Required.
Bonanza Beers make their own Gas.
Ginger, Kola, Hop, Bitter and Table Beer, Dandelion,
Ale, Lemonade, Shandygaff, Ciderade, Stout.
All stores and grocers. 1, 2 and 5 gal. packets, 6d., Is.,
25., or direct by post to any State, Bd., Is. 3d., 2s. 3d.
Draught Ciderade, without gas, made with cold
water, and ready for use in one hour.
SPEClAL.—Bonanza Sarsaparilla is the best
blood-purifier in the world, and contains the genuine
Jamaica Root In 1 and 2 gal. packets, Is. and 2s.
T. DOE GAN & £ ON,
143 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
#
™' l UkG
£y £S
Vs.
*
The VOLCANIC
AERATING
HACHINE
jj
The VOLCANIC AERATED WATER MACHINE is being
used on Messrs. Spiers & Pond’s Railway Refreshment
Bars throughout (he United Kingdom.
JLSS? HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS m
AERATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LAEOR.
Absolutely the Best and Simplest
Machine in the Market. Price
£3O
TUBES CONTAIN 571bs. GAS.
CAPACITY OF CYLINDERS 10 GALS. WATER
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Smaller Machines on same principle, £2O.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials frov
people who have used the Machine for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor.
Office: 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Depot: 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE
DRINK-
GARDNER’S
From our Springs at Heiidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Heiidon.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted is. Id,
Post Free.
DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ O. ELIDiRIEGE &c GO
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
! onntvy Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ASTHMA CUR
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove tho
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAUXT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
Nothingso well describes the good qualities
of our fountain pen as its name-“S WA N.”
Graceful in appearance, cleanly by nature,
evenness of ink feed—it glides o’er the paper
with a smoothness and regularity equalled
by no other writim* instrument made. Try it.
MABIE, TODD S’ BARD.
London and Manchester. England.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers, and Importers.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
m
i--:i j :
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
nißKAcm
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plate*. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Page*.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare hook by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Cd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is 6d. Fowler’s Science of Life, 10s 6d.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d. Rosario,
2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metalworking tor Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
5s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready. Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t bo fooled Into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. §•“ Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Writ* for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY' RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife's Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6<l & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 3d. posted. Ciievasse’s Adviceto a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 iltus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
HBLLIJWAY’S 111.14;
Q.
$§§§
§§<§
“29$
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down '* or “out of sorts.'* Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness.
Holloway's Ointment affords most welcome relief
m a very short time.
❖ ,# v
mummm


South New Moon, Bendigo’s best mine, has now
had a2£ years’ run of dividends—an unusually, long spell
for a Bendigo mine nowadays. In that time it has paid
away £171,200, or £5 7s. per share, besides spending
£12,185 on machinery. Past half-year’s record has been
£52,800, or £ll3s. per share. This latter is the result of
13,980 tons of stone, averaging (pyrites, etc., included)
loz. 3dwt, s£gr., worth £64,043. The total costs on the
mine were £lo,234,'equal to about 14s. Bd. per ton. The
co. has just decided to pay back to the Government £6OO
which was advanced from the prospecting vote 17 years
ago. It paid big dividends for 2£ years before this
little matter occurred to it.
* * * *
“ Revert ”: Nearly everyone who writes on
Anakie (Q.) and its gems seems to be unavoidably more
or less of an Ananias. Fitful paragraphs appear in Rock-
hampton and other papers booming and boosting Anakie
stones, with the only result of sending up more consign-
ments of derelicts to fossick for a few weeks or months,
and then drift away in disgust. Your correspondent
(8., 17/12/’O3) says : “ Till within the last two years our
gems only fetched corundum prices.” When I was there,
over two years ago, the price given for corundum was
about 2s. 6d. per pound ; and sapphires were bought at
from about ss. to 12s. per oz., on an average. The pick
of the blue stones were fetching £3 per oz. —any odd
'weights or half-ounces were almost invariably “ of little
or no value,” to quote the buyer’s memo. ; and
if you wouldn’t accept his terms for the bulk, he would
send the whole consignment back. Want of expert
knowledge in classing and pricing the stones places the
diggers in the clutch of the buyers, who won’t give
a price good- enough to let men make wages year in and
year out. Nevertheless the oldest hand told me (and as
far as I knew him he was reliable) that he made £l5 per
week for some time, years ago, and that it still pays him
to cart and wash dirt for loz. to the load. But he has
spent much time and money in finding his own buyers
for particular stones, and keeps their names to himself.
Also he knows the country. There is nothing to guide
the digger, except a certain boulder which sometimes
occurs where there is sapphire wash, and sometimes
forgets to occur, and sometimes occurs where there is no
wash.
* * » *
According to Lond. Economist’s figures, Aus-
tralasia has eight of the 20 most prolific gold mines in the
world at present. The list (the figures refer to the value
of the output per month) :
Homestake (S. Dakota) .. .. £85,000
Simmer and Jack (Rand) .. .. 78,000
Boulder Perseverance (Australia) .. 63,000
Robinson (Rand) .. .. 62,000
G. Horseshoe (Australia) .. .. 60,000
Champion Reef (India) ~ 60,000
Rose Deep (Rand) 58,000
Mysore (India) 55,000
Waihi (Maoriland) .. ~ 51,000
Geldenhuis (Rand) .. .. .. 51,000
Mt. Morgan (Australia) .. .. 50,000
Portland (Colorado) .. .. 50,000
Great Fingall (Australia) 48,000
Crown Reef (Rand) 46,000
Vit. Main Reef (Rand) .. 46,000
Crown Deep (Rand) .. .. 46,000
City and Sub. (Rand) .. .. 46,000
Boulder (Australia) 45,000
Oroya-Brown Hill (Australia) .. 44,000
Ivanhoe (Australia) 44,000
The Waihi’s position will probably surprise most people.
As a matter of fact, though, on the co’s. last year’s
figures, it" hardly stands so high ; its output for that 12
months averaged just under £44,000. Still, it has been a
great producer and a great dividend payer. In four
years 553,203 tons of stone yielded £1,603,206 worth of
bullion, and dividends of 38s. per share, or in all £764,326,
were paid, free of income tax ; the tax amounted to
£48,757. The Waihi bullion is worth about 15s. 6d.
per oz. : it contains nearly 6oz. of silver to loz. of gold.
* * * *
General manager Schlenzig, of the mining con-
cessions held by the New Guinea Co. and Huon Gulf
Syndicate, German New Guinea, has come south on the
way to Europe ; it looks as though the trip were taken
partly to help push off some smaller co.’s to work sluicing
ground. Sohlenzig’s co.’s were formed in 1885, and, so
far, have given most attention to growing kapok, cocoa-
nuts and coffee, on which they have 5000 natives working.
They are not satisfied with the local labor supply, though,
and want to recruit in the South Sea islands ; if they
can’t do that they will go for Chinese coolies. Nothing
much has, so far, beendone in mining; but £lO,OOO is
now being spent in small sluicingplants. Early this year
20 Australian miners were taken over to prospect the
watershed of the Ramil river, but the results were not
what the co. had hoped for. Every stream flowing from
the Bismarck Ranges is, however, known to carry gold ;
and the country round the headwaters of the Fly River
is believed to be rich, but this is not within the New
Guinea co.’s'grab. The New Guinea co. works on a basis
of returning to the Government 10 per cent, of its
revenue ; while the Iluon Gulf syndicate has undertaken
to spend £500,000 on its 6000 square mile patch.
* * * *
It is estimated that for the first time Westralia’s
wheat-harvest will be sufficient to feed the State until
the next one is due. But there will be considerable
flour-trade .westward, nevertheless ; there is so much
prejudice against the local product that in Perth it can
only be sold at £1 to £2 less than Adelaide flour.
* * » *
“Ed.” writes. At Redcastle (Vic.) near the
old M’lvor diggings, are two heaps of tailings containing
a few thousand tons of sand. Two companies have tried
to treat them by eyaniding. One lost £l2OO ; the other
£4OO. One man experimented with a small plant and
dropped £l5O. Last year another enterprising man
erected a concentrating and c.vaniding plant at a cost of
£4OOO, and sold out for £lOOO. Now a fifth party is
tackling it. , He is just obtaining enough gold to make a
loss. The sand assays well, some giving as high as Bdwt.,
hut when "treated in the bulk will not give up the gold.
The sand, besides gold, contains arsenic, copper, and a
high percentage of antimony. The antimony decomposes
the potassium cyanide, which is then not effective in
dissolving the goid. Up to date more sovereigns have
been sunk in the sand than ever can come out, These
tailings are Itedcastle’s salvation. All other shows are
shut down, but somebody is always struggling with the
sand,
A * * * *
Tlie scare about a possible early shortage of fuel
and timber for the W.A. mints has been allayed by forest
ranger Kelson. He reckons that the total yearly con-
sumption is 470,000 tons, of which the Kalgoorlie mines
take 380,000 tons. Within the present zone of operations
he estimates that there is eight years’ supply in sight at
current price of 13s. a'ton landed on mines. By extend-
ing the tramway system, another 12 years’ supply can be
got at 13s. to 14s. a ton. And 20 years is quite as far as
any mining field can he expected to look.
• * * *
“Hix”: “Chasselas” (Bulletin, 17/12/U3) is
badly informed concerning the Victorian export trade in
agricultural implements. He quotes 14 per week as
being the biggest out-turn of any manufacturer of har-
vesters. One factory (at Ballarat) makes and delivers 48
of these machined per week, has been doing so for many
months, employing, over 300 men and working night anil
day. “ Chasselas ” :br quite wrong in his assertion that
malleable castings ate not made locally. There are two
(if not more) malleable foundries in Melbourne and one in
Ballarat. The local implement maker uses locally-
produced malleables entirely. He also uses a very
large quantity of locally-rolled bar, angle and tee-iron ;
sufficient to keep two fair-sized rolling-mills (one in
North Melbourne, the other in South Melbourne) running
most of the year. Unfortunately the raw material for
the founder and the ironmaster is not produced locally—
the one uses Scotch pig-iron, the other German or Ameri-
can “ dumped ” billets, in addition to such “ scrap ” as
can be obtained locally. The implement-makers employ
a lot of labor at a good wage. They need more protec-
tion against the cute Yank and Canuck, who ship
samples of their harvesters, &c., and makeup a better-
lookiiig machine at a lower price—by using more paint
and less metal. Note that rolling-mills and implement-
works commenced in a very small way, have expanded,
and will grow immensely if protected as in U.S.A. ; but
the production of pig-iron and billets is never likely tc
commence until the Federal Parliament declares for a
bonus. "
Ex-Pretnier Salisbury owned
London public-houses.
over 40
At Poverty Point.
The latest singer to take a place-name for stage use is
Ben Digo (otherwise A. O. Bottoms), a baritone from
Bendigo, who appeared at the operatic matinee given by
Marshall-Hall students recently.
Ethel Turner ha 3 been done into drama—for the first
time, so far as writer knows. Journalist J. J. Utting, of
Hobart, who was the first man, or thereabouts, to put
Ned Kelly into four acts, has done the same service for
the Sydney writer. “ The Wonder Child ” wag the piece
chosen, and it was played at the Town Hall for sweet
charity’s sake.
George Musgrove has contradicted the rumor that lie
is abandoning theatrical management in Australia.
G.M. declares that he is travelling in search of new goods
for presentation at the theatres which he will continue to
lease, but he “ prefers to close the Princess’s when an
attraction worthy of the intellect of Melbourne or the.
traditions of the theatre cannot be obtained.” How
about the amateur companies who lately catered for Mel-
bourne’s intellect at the Princess’s ?
“0.P.”: The average song set down as a test in the
majority of Victoria’s musical competitions is of the kind
which, even if sung by a Crossley, weuld inspire the
audience to start out and look for the author with a club.
This probably accounts for the wild enthusiasm displayed
by some of the music warehouses in offering valuable
prizes and otherwise booming the show, which inci-
dentally gives them the opportunity of working off old
and unsaleable stock.
Miss Julia St. George died in England the other day,
aged 80. She was the foremost performer in the London
burlesques, extravaganzas, and spectacles of half a century
ago.
Thus a member of the Frawley co. to San Francisco
Dramatic Review: “The Frawley co., after giving
Sydney playgoers a glimpse of ‘ Arizona,’ ‘ Mizzouri ’ and
‘ Paradise,’ has gone to Queensland. Some critics object
to the 1 American twang’ where English gentlemen, as in
‘ Brother Officers,’ are represented. It is difficult to see,
however, how the situation could be improved by
substituting the mongrel cockney accent and twang of
the colonies, which prevails on both sides of the foot-
lights, and chills the marrow of every well-bred Ameri-
can when he finds himself in the company of equally well-
bred, but lamentably un-English Australians.”
Somebody protests that musicians are arrogantly im-
posing upon the public’s acquiescence in the rule of
concert management by which late-comers are kept out-
side in the corridors cooling their heels, whilst a musical
number” is proceeding. It was a good enough rule as
long as the programmes began with one or two short
numbers—songs for choice—but it is now carried to a
tyrannical point. A pianist starts his recital with a
sonata lasting 40 minutes, or a “popular” concert is
inaugurated with a2O minutes violin solo. All this time
the people who missed their trains and arrived at the hall
two minutes after the doors were shut are compelled to
do full penance. On the other hand no sort of penalty is
enforced against late-comers at theatres. The same
overture to “ Tannhaiiser,” say, which mustn’t be
disturbed during the performance in a concert hall, is
open to any amount of intrusion when it precedes the
opera at a theatre. Also the vocalist whose solo gets no
special consideration when it forms part of a big show at
a Williamson or Musgrove theatre, insists upon having
the same theme preserved from sacrilegious interruption
when it happens in a concert programme.
Melbourne police-court is finishing up the
old year with an interesting case. Some weeks
ago Melen Myers, jeweller, reported a burglary of
£3200 worth of goods from his shop in Elizabeth-
street, which had, apparently, been entered by
way of a hole cut through the ceiling from an
office above the shop. Myers alleges that about
half of the stolen property was discovered by him
(through the police) in the possession of Moss
Aarons, a Carlton pawnbroker, whom he had not
previously met. Aarons now stands charged with
the burglary, and the cross-examination of Melen
Myers by prisoner’s counsel promises to be in-
teresting.
Frank Tudor, who licked his Tory
opponent for the Yarra (Victoria) seat in the
House of Reps., was a fellow-debater of Holman,
M.L.A. (of N.S.W.), in the Richmond Noncon-
formist Debating Society, some years ago.
Anarchist poet Andrews was a member of the
society at the same time. Tudor is an earnest
young man with a great lack of humor, and it is
said that, in those days, when he failed to appre-
ciate a joke, he used to write it down, take it
home, and think it out carefully. A man who
will worry out a joke like that has courage and
perseverance.
A station laborer named Macdonald has been
tried three times for what is known as the Mooney
Mooney (Gundagai, N.S.W.) poisoning case, the
jury disagreeing on each occasion. At Young,
where the third trial took place, the accused was
remanded on bail (two sureties in £5OO each and
self in £500) to appear next sitting at Darling-
hurst, or such other court as the Attorney-General
may direct. Prohibitive, surely ? What station-
hand can provide £lOOO bail ?
Justice Hood, of Victoria, who has been
appointed a Royal Commission to inquire into
the charges of attempted bribery brought against
Dr. Montague, of Canada, in regard to the
introduction of assessment life assurance in
Australia, gets appointments of that kind
largely on account of his nose. It is a long
smelling talon darting out from beneath a big
forehead—the inquiring nose par excellence. And
Mr, Hood lives up to his nose.
Joe Panton, Victoria’s very ancient police
magistrate, got a shock during the hearing of an
assault case in connection with the sale of some
fat. After the defendant had given his evidence
Panton took a hand at cross-examining him.
“What are you?” asked Panton. “I buy fat,”
was the reply. “How long have you been a fat
merchant ? ” snarled Panton. “ Oh, a long time,”
came the answer. And then the defendant added
with a chuckle, “ I bought stuff off you, years
ago.” Panton was staggered for a minute, and
then roared, “You never did anything of the
kind. I have never been a butcher.” Defendant’s
solicitor tried to smooth things out a bit and re-
marked, “ I think, sir, he is telling the truth. He
told me the same thing last night.” “ But I
never sold fat in my life,” said the indignant
Panton. Then the defendant cleared up the
trouble in a sentence : “It wasn’t fat I bought off
you, sir. It was bottles, sir.” Panton squirmed
while the whole court rang with laughter.
Last week a man was discovered lying in
the sand within the ladies’ swimming bath enclo-
sure at Albert Park (Melb.) The cheek of inno-
cence had no occasion to blush on account of the
intruder. He was dead before a wave carried
him over the fence—probably the first dead man
that ever got into a sanctum for females without
human assistance.
Patents for Inventions. — Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.
THE STORY OF A GREAT AUSTRALIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ William M’Millan Reminiscent.—Personal and Poli-
tical Life Storv of a Successful Man of Affairs.— A Course
of Reading for Young Politicians.”— Headlines in Sydney
paper.
“My youthful life ? Oh, yes, of course; I’m very pleased
to give
My whole career, to show the young the way they ought
to live.
It may some embryonic ‘ Mac ’ induce to emulate,
And then—who knows?—he may become a Freetrade
leader great.
•• As near as memory can recall, my spirit always craved
To be the man of whom 'tis said, *He has his country
saved.’
Alas 1 I left my country young, to sail across the sea.
(Don’t smile, young man, I disapprove of all such levity.)
“My youth was spent in Derry, where they tint their
politics,
And I, just like a hatter, constituted one of six.
I’d all the lore of classic bards stored up within my head—
(No, young man, you are far too young to hear what Ovid
said.)
“ I went in strong for literature, and anything of Scott’s
Or Gowper’s or Macaulay’s or good old Dr. Watts’
I straightway held in memory, and even now I see
Before my mind those thrilling lines, ‘ The Little Busy
Bee.'
“ Oh 1 happy days of romance, when my soul's poetic
flow
Saw a sonnet in each bulky roll of unbleached calico,
When towels suggested triolets, and as I checked the sox,
I praised in simple melody my lady’s silken locks.
“ But still I felt my ardent soul was cribbed and sore con*
fined,
For dress-goods were material—and I was mostly mind.
I joined a famed debating class within the School of Arts,
With many other famous men who since have played their
parts.
“The joys of local politics now held me in their thrall,
And as an untried candidate I opened up the ball.
I came, I saw, I conquered (East Sydney was in luck),
And I upon the ladder rose above the common ruck.
“ My weight was felt in politics (I scaled at ten-stone-
two),
You recollect that Thistles Act I ably carried through?
An Export Act for Bandicoots, an Act of Lunacy,
And many other useful laws were introduced by me.
“ There’s nothing more of interest, except to say that I
Have left my leader, Mr. Reid, to keep the poodle dry.
I’ve taken now from Parliament, a temporary rest,
’Twas pocket vertus politics—and pocket came off best.
“ Now, do not hesitate at all to look me up again ;
I hold that famous men should make their whole life-
story plain.
Well, au revoir / you’re welcome quite. Don’t trouble
me to thank—
Ehl ‘what about that circular?”’ (Twelve asterisks
and a blank.)
JASON.
Heavy Damages,
An Irishman recently had the misfortune to be
in a railway accident, when both his legs and one
of his arms were broken. “Of course you will
sue the Company for damages,” observed his
sympathising friend, “Sue the Company for
damages, is it, y’re talking of?” inquired the
mutilated one. “Sure I’ve more than enough
damages already, I’m thinking ; but I’ll sue them
for repairs, or I’m not Mike Donovan from
Mayo.” . .
Now it is an unfortunate fact, constantly within
the range of everybody’s observation, that damages
are easily incurred, while repairs are nearly always
difficult to make, and in some cases impossible.
This is true of myriads of things, but specially is
t true of men and women.
What is more easy than to acquire indigestion by
following some sedentary occupation and eating
unsuitable food? Not but there are vast numbers
of people suffering from that complaint who are
at a loss how to account for it. But however
acquired or arising, what is more difficult than to
obtain relief from indigestion ? Nothing, surely.
Unlike money, it is easy to obtain and hard to get
rid of. Of the many things said to be a cure for
it, there is but one that is really so—Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, a compound of fruits, roots, and
herbs, for thirty-five years known and esteemed
throughout the world.
“ For four years indigestion blotted all bright-
ness out of my existence. It was in 1896 that I
fell a victim to that dreadful malady. My suffer-
ings were intense. Food, which should have
brought strength, was to me only a source of
distress.” Thus writes Mrs. Rose Marie, of 26
Foster-street, near the Haymarket, Sydney,
N.S.W. “Delicacies were out of the question,
and the little I ate had to be of the plainest,” con-
tinues Mrs. Marie. “Sleepless by night, I was
very subject to exhausting fits of vomiting on
rising in the morning. I was treated at different
stages of my complaint by several doctors, but
they did me no good whatever ; neither did I get
any benefit by the change of climate in going from
Adelaide to Melbourne. I took a great number
of patent medicines and tonics, but all to no
purpose, and every day grew feebler and more
despondent. In July, 1900, I was advised to try
Mother Seigel s Curative Syrup, and found the
effect remarkable. Before I had emptied two
bottles I felt like a different beiug. The sleepless-
ness, morning sickness, and other distressing
symptoms, disappeared, and in eight weeks I was
perfectly cured.”
A case of more rapid and successful repair we
think would be hard to find.*
The mutoscope has struck Maoriland, Wellington
receiving the first blow. Wellington is a holy place, and
the pictures of the French girls with the lace what-may-
you-call-’ems panned out most satisfactorily.
A THEN*UM Ev HALL iF MELBOURNE. vrai[ia '
The Great BIOGRAPH
With 10,000 ft. of Magnifioent Films
from London and New York.
EVERY PICTURE Full of Interest and Amusement.
Also, FIRST APPEARANCE OF
Sydney Merton, Society Entertainer.
PRICES—2s. and Is. Plan at Allan’s.
JOHN H. TAIT, Manager.
Summer Sensations by the Sea.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES a™ TOBOGGANING
Steyne Court, MANLY.
A Pronounced Bueceee.
AND DON’T FORGET
THE FIERY DRAGON.
Amusements.
The new her majesty’s theatre.
Lessee & Manager .. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
SPLENDID SUCCESS of Mr. TREE’S COMPANY,
including
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES and MR. JULIUS KNIGHT,
in the Reigning London and New York Success,
MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. B3t PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S Powerful and Popular
Dramatic Co. in the Intensely Exciting Drama,
WHY WOMAN SINS.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, sydn e y.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 8. Wed. and Sat. Afternoon, at 2.
IMMEDIATE, EMPHATIC, UNDOUBTED SUCCESS of
the GRAND XMAS PANTOMIME,
entitled,
SLEEPING BEAUTY AND THE BEAST,
or Mother Goose and the Seven Champions.
Box Plan at Paling’s. ftST PRICES AS USUAL.
YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING,
COMPLETE and INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS of the
Grand Production, for the First Time in Australia, of the
Enormously Successful London Adelphi Drama,
THE GREAT WORLD OF LONDON.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY. ~
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Mr. George Stephenson’s American Ccmecty Company
in the Great Musical Farce Comedy,
Mama’s New Husband
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s, Is. Early Door 6d. Extra.
Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales, White Rose.
Business Representative—o. K. bailey.
Touring Manager— F. W. DUVAL.
QUEE N ’ 8 HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
MR. HERBERT FLEMMING presents
MEL. B. SPURR,
ENGLAND’S GREATEST SOCIETY ENTERTAINER.
AN ARTIST WHO STANDS ALONE.
Prices—3s, 2s, and Is. Early Door, 7to 7.30,6 d. extra.
Matinee Every Wednesday at 2.30.
THE mutoscope.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
and OCEAN BEACH, MANLY,
New Heels. V&r Admission FREE.
, VOLI TrtEATRE, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietor and Manaffer-MR. Haiuut ltiumi)s
Enthusiastic Reception of MRS. SIMS REEVES.
Splendid Success of THE CIRNOCS.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. .
MR. J. W. WINTON.
THE MICRO-BIOSCOPE.
Mi- F/RNEST FITTS, Miss JENNY GREY,
Mr! JAS. HARVEY, Mr. LAL LOGIE, Miss
RANGER, Miss NITA LEETE. Mr. ERNEST
SULLIVAN, Mr. LES WHARTON,
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
First Appearance in Australia of the Beautiful Miss
VULCANA, Holder of All World’s Records, and
ATLAB, the World-Renowned Athlete.
MISS RAY JONES. THE COLLIERS. ALBERTO,
DAISY SYLVESTER, CLARKE and HAMILTON,
ELLA WELLINGTON, ROBERT NEEDHAM,
IRVING SAYLES. _______
ER MAJESTY’B THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING. GREAT SUCCESS.
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
will present for the first time in Melbourne,
A COUNTRY GIRL,
by J. T. Tanner.
T H , E “™ E BOVAL ’. " ELB ° UB Mn e BIa loin
Business Manager C- Simonsens.
EVERY EVENING. I ®® EVERY EVENING, I ®®
BLAND HOLT’S DRAMATIC COMPANY in
AN AUSTRALIAN ANECDOTE, Entitled,
A DESPERATE GAME,
For the First Time in Melbourne.
Prices— 3g l 2s 6d, 2s. Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
p
RINCESS’S
Sole Lessee
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S GRAND ENCLISH
SHAKESPEARIAN COMPANY in
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
gIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Mr. TOM PERM AN.
MAGNIFICENT TRIUMPH EVERY EVENING
.... of the ....
Magnificent Spectacular Comedy XMAS PANTOMIME
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
L Y I N G FAREWELL V I 8 I T
OF .
WIRTH BROS.’
COMPLETE UP-TO-DATE
CIRCUS AND TRAVELLING ZOO.
one: week only.
TWO SHOWS DAILY.
LOCATION -JUST OVER PRINCES BRIDGE.
IN COOL GREEN TENTS.
A Gigantic Show Teeming with Novelties.
Australia’s Oldest, Grandest and Most Travelled Circus
and Managerie, Founded in Sydney, January, 1880.
Nearly a Quarter of a Century of Travel and Experience
Every Land and Clime.
Been Everywhere, Seen Everything, and Got Every
thing Worth Having.


iiA,i,, n » TOrifAd •
° w .
Astonishing how easily electrical swindles can be
worked. The general public, in spite of the spread of
technical education, remains densely ignorant, and seems
. .. .. , , .
todivide electricity into top. t .
Life,” and “ Electridty is Shocks « About six years
a S° £ rof ' announced the discovery of X rajs,
and the public rushed to admire its anatomy. At this
time .something like an escaped convict asked me for
advice re the earning of a dishonest brown. He
was a harmless and humorous scoundrel, and, thanks
o°dmarv a moans° ld 1 Exhibition 3 "
oidinary moans. il6 ran a strG6t"CoinGr GxiiiDition,
fitted with ueen hole and” eld a mdiomDhic nerntTvS
of a hand such as mav be sLn n XtoJianhers®
window. d ThS C . h eco“d SUn.dT.miS ,'iicS Cp to
iSr whiM tttirth',‘t th to”
hold an outstretched hand. The spectator slipped his
liana into No. 4, and gazed with awe at what he thought
was a radiograph of his ow n bones. The exhibition was
a success until it struck somebody as strange that the
apparatus didn’t buzz, and he wanted me to supply the
buzzing part. I did so, and quite a number of shows
were equipped and sent round the country, coining
money while the novelty lasted.
Another man once offered me a half share not to burst
up an elaborate swindle that he had on hand. He pro-
fessed to brilliantly light a large shop with the current
from a small battery not capable of supplying the
illumination of a cigarette end. In reality a dynamo
driven by a 10 h.p. engine was 100 yards away in a back
yard, churning out current for all it was worth, and con-
veying the same to the lamps through concealed wires.
He was forming a syndicate (vendor £5OOO cash, etc.)
when a would-be shareholder got me to inspect the thing
for him. The shindykit didn’t eventuate.
Electric belts are perhaps the most profitable dodges
of all. They mostly consist of a series of metallic discs
fastened to a strip of thick flannel, or similar material.
Some consist of nothing else. Others are fitted with a
sulall medical coil and battery that give a genuine and
quite harmless current. Whether irritating the skin
with the tingling sensation such an arrangement gives
has a beneficial effect I cannot say, but should
not think it was of the least use. What really
does effect some of the widely - advertised cures
is the warmth of the flannel over the kidneys.
Prices range up to £2O for belts that do not contain 20s.
worth of work and material. I was once shown an
“ electric ’’ chair, sold for £3O by one of these sharks to a
poor paralytic, who gave up the savings of half a lifetime
on the promise of a certain cure. The chair cost 10s.,
the induction coil 155., the battery 45., and the work
done on it 2s. 6d. The sum total should have been worth
twelve months’ “ hard ” to the inventor.
“ Petramos ” tells how the bailiff buzzed :
I know every bad ’un in the city. There was a job I
’ad with Florrie Bradley—you know Florrie?—fine, big
girl down in Dash-street, used to live where Polly 'All is
now—you know Polly 'All? Florrie and the boys kept
the doors barred again me for seven weeks. We ’ad no
chance to get in for rent. Must be in ’tween six and six
for that. Finally, at 6 one morning, I paid a kid to go to
the door and holler “ Fire ! ” One of me men waited by
the front door, and when Flo came an’ opened it my man
jumped in. “Atlarst!” he says. Florrie was joined in
the ’allwav by the rest of the girls in their early mornin’
gowns, with their ’air all ’angin’ down their necks. They
let the door slide, and I slipped in too. The excitement
was tremenjous, and the things they throw’d at us was
numerous. I’m goin’ down to turn Milly Frazer out now.
You know 'er?—short, fine-made girl. Oh, well, I
s’pose you can’t remember ’em all.
Queensland’s judicial position just now is
remarkable. It has four Higher Court Judges,
but two of them —stationed in the Central and
Northern divisions—are expressly shut out from
sitting on the Full Court. There used to be three
Judges in Brisbane; but as nobody has been
appointed to succeed Griffith, although Pope
Cooper has been made Chief, the Full Court
consists of only Cooper and Real. The latter has
publicly announced that he reckons himself a
better man than the new Chief, and that he ought
to have had the job ; but as he hasn’t got the job
and Pope Cooper has, the latter is practically the
Full Court, being Real’s Chief. And as Real
doesn’t regard Pope Cooper as being large enough
to sit in judgment upon his judgments, he won’t
send cases to the Full Court, except for the
express purpose of having them sent on to the
Privy Council or the High Court. Real has been
a prickle on the Bench for years, and his recent
disappointment makes him more prickly than
ever.
“ Anglo-American ” in the North Ameri-
can Review :
I feel sure that if one could follow the workings of the
caste system into its uttermost details one would find
that the hopelessness and servility bred by it are respon-
sible for, perhaps, half the commercial inefficiency and un-
progressiveness of England. It makes for stagnation as
certainly as it makes for that class rancor which gives to
English trades-unionism its particularly bitter strength.
At one point in the social scale you may find its fruits in
the worship of externals and appearances, in an over-
valuation of the purely decorative, non-productive
elements of life. At another it will be repressing and
circumscribing the ability of the “ vulgar " in favor of
genteel incompetence ; at a third you will see it spouting
in geysers of flunkeyism. Between King Edward VII. on
his Royal Throne and the London “ floor-walker ” who
makes you shiver with the abjectness of his bowings and
scrapings the connection of cause and effect may not at
first be apparent. It is there, disastrously there, all the
same; and the caste spirit is the link. When the
monarchy sets the example of governing, rewarding, be-
having with a single eye to merit, there is no room and
no temptation on the lower strata for slimy servility.
When the Royal influence, however, tends palpably in
the other direction, it will breed flunkeys as the New
Jersey marshes breed mosquitoes.
Sometimes I say in an hour
supreme that the steak is dash good, or that the
green peas discover me where I reside ; whereupon
my helpmate smiles compassionately at me like a
lady in a corset advt. I think that woman is
jealous of man’s stomach, and, if she could get
the chance, would take his digestive machinery
away from him and fill the gap with a secondary
heart, Man, on the contrary, admires a woman
who feeds herself—so long as she takes him as well
as the food.
The relative importance of God and King
Ned, as seen by one of them. The quote is from
the London Da,ily Chronicle report of the laying
of the foundation-stone of a sanatorium :
The King himself set his subjects an excellent example
by wearing his hat during the whole of the brief religious
service in the open air, and raising it only when the
National Anthem was played.
Edward didn’t take off his hat when religion was
mentioned, but when his own name was uttered —
well, that was different.
THE MIRROR OF LIFE
mm
;>P
s
m
■*Ks
MU
m
ma
mz
i
l
*
■
H
||||||l
s?;
m
m
■
iiijgjj
iililii
MB
An^Hl
m
n
a
n
NHHi
i mm
|HH|
■
H
HH
H H
■■
;•••>
,:• : k- : :-:'•? >i;^: :;
mm
■
■
■
Choose
Your Future
At Fifty,
Which Will
You
Look Like?
Do
It
Now
SUFFERING MEN.
You daily stand before the
Mirror of Life. Yearly you see
yourselves grow older, stronger, or weaker. You
know whether you are degenerating or other-
wise. If at twenty you are feeble in health and
puny in stature, you can guess what you will be
like at fifty. Look at the faces in these Mirrors!
WHAT WILL YOU BE LIKE AT FIFTY?
This is the Question, d® you mean to get the
_ best of the world, or will
you let the world get the best of you? Sooner or later you must understand
yourselves, and decide whether you will climb up hill to success, or slide down
hill to failure. No one can stand still. Now is the time for you to choose your
future. Do not dodge the question, procrastinate, or allow yourself to aimlessly
drift towards premature decay and Death. DECIDE TO LIVE—to rise to the
top of your chosen profession.
Good Health is Necessary.
To be successful in Life
you must be healthy.
If you are weak in Vital Strength, Puny, Tired, Afraid to Venture, if you have lost
Hope, Ambition, Energy, you will not succeed. You will leave the world worse than
you entered it. If you are ill, nerve-shattered, incompetent to perform Life’s duties,
Tired of Life, if your Kidneys are deranged, your Stomach disordered, your Heart
degenerated from its healthy standard, if you have specks and cobwebs before your eyes (a
sure sign of Kidney Disease), if you have Presentiments of Coming Evil, and mentally live
under a cloud of impending disaster, and have fear every moment of sudden death, you are
in a bad way. Go to a Medical Expert at once while you have time. There are none better
practising in Australia than the SPECIALISTS of the Medical Staff of
The Freeman & Wallace
MEDICAL INSTITUTE
who have cured more men of their troubles than any similar association of medical men in
Australasia. Each expert connected with the Institute is a graduate of famous English and American
Colleges, and have practised in Australasia for over a Quarter of a Century.
If you are ill you must go to the Fountain Head of Science. It offers you a chance to
regain Health. Why allow yourself to go on from day to day regardless of your Health and
Strength ? Why make life miserable when you can have Health and Happiness 1 You can obtain
this without any inconvenience, regain your Vitality, and find a joy in living and your day’s duties a
pleasure No man need be sick when these world-famed Specialists may be consulted. Diseases long
classed as “ INCURABLE ” are their Specialities. They particularly desire to treat those diseases
others have aggravated by their tampering and failed to cure. Thousands of men have testified to the
wonderful cures made by the Medical Staff in cases where medical men have entirely failed to relieve.
The Proverb says: “He
who hesitates is lost.”
Do not hesitate if you
suffer. Men are buried
daily who thought they
would call on a Special-
ist, and always kept de-
laying the main chance.
In order to meet the great growth of public patronage
accorded the Institute by suffering men from all parts of
the Commonwealth, a branch of this great medical centre
has been opened at Bourke and Elizabeth Streets, Mel-
bourne, under efficient professional and correspondence
staffs, where patients in the Southern and Western States
of Australia may consult the most eminent Specialists
and save the long journey to Sydney. All correspondence
to this Branch will be effectively replied to.
Remember! Consulta-
tion by litter or person-
ally costs you nothing.
You wbuld not throw
away a grain of gold.
The aid of a Specialist is
worth more than gold
to you if you but knew it.
AFTER fIANY YEARS.
Mr. JAMES LANE, farmer, of Rose Hill, Orange, was
a martyr for over THIRTY YEARS to Sciatica. No
doctor could cure him. They told him he was “ IN-
CURABLE.” His wife says of his recovery £-
“ Mr. Lane was in bed during; last winter, could
only walk with the aid of a stick. After adopting;
your treatment he could ride round his -farm for
his cows, i think everyone should know of his
cure, for he had tried many doctors, and had not
obtained relief. He is now well and strong;."
CHRONIC DYSPEPSIA CURED.
Mr. CHARLES BROWN, Newcomen-street, New-
castle, who suffered from Indigestion and Dyspepsia for
many years, and who scarcely knew what it was to eat
a hearty meal, writes: —
“ I cannot praise your treatment too much. At
one time I could not eat a meal with good
appetite. Your systems of treating nerve
diseases has done me good, for I now eat and
sleep well. That is more than I have done for
many years. I am quite healthy to-day.”
HAD GIVEN UP HOPE.
Mrs. JULIA CLEMENTS, of Stawell, Victoria, who
was physically a wreck, and who had given up hope in
every way, and who had consulted many leading doctors
fruitlessly declares:—
“No one knows the value of your Electro-
Medical methods as I do. I was a wreck and
utterly hopeless, but through your treatment I
am now a strong woman. I do not suffer as I
did from the fearful pains in the back, which I
thought would never leave me.”
MfiTP Any man may, if he so desires, through private reasons of his
own, consult the Specialists, by addressing privately “THE
SECRETARY,” 227 Elizabeth-street, Sydney. In some Instances, a man may not
be able to call personally and may prefer to write upon matters seriously con-
cerning himse.f. All suoh letters are promptly replied to by the Physician-ln-
Chlof, Dr. R. Wallace, M.D., who is Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Boards of New South Wales, England and America. Dr. Wallaoa’s great Medical
Work, “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” a book essentially for men, will be posted
FREE on receipt of FIVE PENCE IN STAMPS, to pay postal transit to any address.
& Wallace
MEDICAL
INSTITUTE
Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—ELIZABETH and BOURKE STREETS, MELBOURNE
ELIZABETH and ALBERT STREETS, BRISBANE


Gift Suggestions at Stewart Dawson’s j Gift Suggestions at Stewart Dawson’s
All Eves are Turned
Towards New Year
Stewart Dawson & Co*
are Ready .♦. ♦.
NEW YEAS GIFTS seek the
favor of your inspection*
As a magnificent exposition
of things suitable for Gifts our
store is worth coming miles to see*
Nowhere can such a profusion of
exclusive Gifts be secured —no-
where else are the prices so
extremely reasonable* Every article
in this Stock comes up to the
highest standard of Excellence; we
would not imperil our reputation
by knowingly permitting any in-
feriority in these Gifts, for we realise
that most people wish to give their
friends only the best things as
tributes of remembrance*
Artistic—
Gold Jewellery.
We mention below a few of the thousands
of acceptable gifts to be found in this
Department.
Photo Pendants
for hanging on Necklets.
This prettily-de-
signed one, exact
size as shown, in
9ct. Gold, ex-
quisitely made
and finished,
price 14s 6d. If
quite plain, this
size 8s 6d. Smal-
ler size, 7s 6d.
Large size, with
Beads only, 12s
6d. Large Hearts, 12s 6d. Pearl Set Photo.
Pendants, large size, 21s, 255, 37s 6d. Then
we have the more elaborate gem-set ones in
15ct. gold. All choice designs, and each one
a splendid example of good value. Prices,
£2 17s 6d, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 15s, £6.
ill
m
wm.
15ct. Gold Brooches
"\ ‘r.y_L‘\-_’.‘f)ru I‘LDQ’LI . “if”:
v}; “Mg—wt ,.
‘ 4M”. . . . ,
»X ,\a ,! Q‘ff
u}?! " ‘3'“
Pearls.
Dozens
of
Dainty
Gifts
can be
selected from our choice stock of Pearl
Brooches. Many exclusive designs can be
seen. The one we show here—a New Moon
with twin hearts, set with fine quality real
pearls, costs £2. Lots of other styles
equally pretty at £llss, £2 10s, £3 3s. Some
lovely Spray Brooches at £2 17s 6d, -63 10s,
£4 10s, £5 ss, £7 7s, £8 10s, £9 10s. Only the
finest of real pearls used in the manufacture
of these.
Opals.—Some lovely designs in Opal
Brooches can be seen here in 9ct. mountings,
14s 6d, 25s ; in 15ct., 37s 6d, 455, 50s, up to £3O
for a magnificent, large-size, oblong stone of
peculiar beauty, set in a fine 15ct. gold mount.
£4 10s.
Fine
Gem
Rings
m
£4 10s.
Our Ring Stock represents the best designs
of English and Continental Artists, while the
Diamonds and other gems used are perfect in
brilliance and color. Each ring is made of
18ct. gold, some as low as £1 ss, set with
such stones as pearls, rubies and sapphires.
Diamond half-hoops of 5 stones, exquisitely
fashioned, at £5 ss, £7 10s, £lO 10s, and up,
by easy stages, to £5O. Some lovely specimens
of all Diamond Marquise Rings at £l6 10s,
£l9 10s, £24 10s, £3O, £47 10s, .£55.
Call or Write for our “GIFTS”
Catalogue.
e
& t RftN PCOBNE R , otWCF ST cvnMcv
A SPECIAL
MARQUISE RING
we show is of large size, set with lovely,
white, brilliant Diamonds with a row of
fine color Sapphires or Rubies running down
the centre. We have never been able to offer
such value before, and the Rings look worth
more than the price £l6 10s. The same style
in a smaller size for =£l3 10s. Our show of
Gem Set Rings, suitable for engagements or
for dress wear, is unequalled, while our
premier position in the Stone Market in
Hatton Garden, London, ensures excellent
values to all buyers.
Surprise Your Wife
by giving her a fine
Vase or Centre
Piece for the Table. You
know nothing will please
most women more than a gift
of this sort. The very hand-
some Cut-Glass and Silver-
plated one we illustrate
stands 21 inches high, and
can be used for both fruit
and flowers. Price £3 15s.
Silver-mounted Glass Vases
:4;
\‘ wt:
\:5’
ll
21
.. 1 - "7'77 ﬁfilli_?.y
“ +7777 3' ‘
"‘i
H“ .
g
m, ‘ '
x A?! 4
ya r1“! -
. -_ tfﬁli‘é: : ‘ . .
. . v"
for as little as half-a-crown. The favorite
Solid Silver Trumpet-topped Vases in all the
wanted sizes running in price so—lss 6d, 21s,
255, 30s.
Some exquisitely designed large size silver-
plated and decorated centre pieces for fruit
and flowers at £lO 10s, £ll 10s, £l2 10s.
Others in glass and silver plate at £2 2s, £3,
£3 10s.
m
Purses
Make
Sensible
Gifts—
especially
the kind
we sell —English, made of the best of suitable
leathers and mounted with solid silver only.
No nickelled locks and silver corners, as sold
so widely elsewhere. Prices for long-wear
silver-mounted purses, 8s 6d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s Cd, 14s 6d, 16s. Cd, 18s. 6d, 21s, 255, 27s 6d.
Gold-mounted Purses at £1 12s 6d, £1 15s,
£1 17s 6d.
SOnE EXCLUSIVE PURSES—
Nothing like them to be seen elsewhere in
Australia. Absolutely the best makes and
mounted with solid silver in the quaintest
styles. Some with strap round centre; others
in combination purses and card cases. Three
prices only, 21s, 22s 6d, 255, and well worth
a third more. We secured them at under
market values and give you the full benefit.
Trinket Hair Pin Boxes
Pretty enough to brighten up any girl’s dress-
ing-table. You
can’t give them
too many of
these. There
is always room
for just one
more. In many
dainty styles,
some oblong,
some oval, and
others square. This quaintly-shaped Jewel
Case or Trinket Box, best silver-plated, satin-
lined, free by post. 255. All Jewel Cases are
satin-lined. Prices, 18s 6d, 21s, 255. and 30s.
Hairpin Boxes in the best silver plate, 8s 6d,
11s 6d, 12s 6d.
CSv
Silver-Mounted Hair Pin Boxes.
The one shown here is 4 inch°« loner, of fine
Cut Glass with a
Solid Silver Lid,
price 10s 6d.
Another fine line
is in bottle-shape.
mmmm
£1
fine Cut Glass, with handsome Chased Silver
Top, ss.
i
~t‘
WW
‘ »~- 63%.} (n: .‘
_.y-LM \\\\~ ..I: ‘ 17‘
.tsmﬁﬁvm M
‘43“1} ‘55:“ It.
Tm‘gﬁlf
(“I H11
'1
I . "‘L:
M
Pretty Little Things
FOR
Pretty Little Babies
AT
Pretty Little Prices,
It is every mother’s
duty at New Year time
to remember the baby.
Babies can appreciate a
present quite as much
as the grown - ups,
and if it is bought at
Stewart Dawson and Co.’s, the expenditure
won’t be much.
These hints :
Silver Rattles : 4s, 4s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d
~ Bangles: Is, Is 6d, 2s, 3s, 3s 6d
~ Spoons : 12s 6d, 16s 6d, in Cases
„ Plated Cup :8s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d
~ „ Spoon, in Case: 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d
We have lots of other things to show you
when you come in.
Our Stock of Gifts
for HEN
contains things suitable for every
age and condition of life, and our
prices for them are lower, quality
1 ‘ {l
W: ‘1
for quality, than any other house. Match
Boxes are popular at these prices. Solid
Silver, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d. Silver
Cigarette Case, 255, 27s 6d, 80s, 355, 40s.
Gold ones for £lO 10s and £l2 10s. A Solid
Silver Card Case at 18s 6d is a sensible gift.'
Then we have Leather Cigar and Cigarette
Cases, Cigar Holders, Cigarette Tubes,
Billiard Chalk Holders, Gold Links and Studs,
Rings, Pins, and, last but not least, the finest
collection of Good Gold, Silver, and Steel
Cased Watches to be found anywhere. We
issue a Special Catalogue of them, which is
posted free to all who are interested.
SERVIETTE RINGS.
These are the things used regularly daily, and
as such are sure to be appreciated by anyone.
Prices
in
S olid
Silver,
5/6, 6/6,
7/6, 8/6,
10/6,
12/6,
13/6.
3 l‘ﬁ‘ii‘ H M214; 1
‘ M“ 3' ' ‘u-‘I‘a:
1% WWW ,
Prices
, in
Silver
Plate,
4/-, 4/6,
5/-, 5/6.
Every style is inc.’ided in a really very fine
collection we show.
T;
SOnE PRETTY
LACE PINS.
These make excellent little
Gifts for young girls, and for
the older ones as well, for that
matter. Just right for fasten-
ing a piece of delicate lace. In
9ct. Gold, with Chain, and
Bell, Bean, or Heart Pendant,
for 3s 6d. Bell or Bean, in
larger sizes, at 4s 6d and 7s 6d.
Wishbone, 5s 6d. Chased
Heart, 5s 6d. Leaf top with
Emu or Kangaroo Pendant, 7s 6d. With
Amethyst or Greenstone top and Bean, Heart
or Bell Pendant, 6s 6d. Then those with the
new Scert Pendants —quite a pretty conceit r!
9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, and 12s 6d.
A Good Travelling
Companion
is one of our fine
Leather and Silver-plated
FLASKS.
With screw top, the prices
run —9s 6d, 11s 6d, 13s 6d,
15s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d,
18s 6d, 22s 6d ; with the
patent bayonet top, 30s,
32s 6d, 355, 40s, 455, 555,
v . 5
Call or Write for our “GIFTS”
Catalogue.
BEAUTIFUL
GOLD
BANGLES
The useful and inexpensive
kinds are here in great
variety. All the fads and
fancies are looked after as
well, because we cater to
suit all ideas. The finer
kinds' handsome and lux-
urious Diamond and Gem
set ones, so suitable for
Christmas Gifts, are also in
evidence.
The Bamboo Bangles—
9cfc. gold, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 555.
15ct. gold, 555, 755, 90s.
The Nellie Stewart
Bangles 9ct. gold, 50s,
70s, 84s, £5. 15ct. gold, £4,
£slos, £6 10s, £7 10s.
A;
‘ yr
:2 f’T/C\
g ((3.5%
E WIT“:
2 ES?)
:: <7
:2 KL:
:1 {’23
:9
"‘9.
\f
The Cable Bangles —9ot. gold, £2, £2 15s,
>63 10s. 15ct. gold, £3lss, £5, £6 6s.
Then we have the Band Bangles at 255,
27s 6d, 30s, 355, £2, £2 ss. And dozens upon
dozens of all the latest Fancy Styles at from
25s to £7 10s. The exquisite 15ct. gold and
fine opal Half Hoop Bangle as shown here is
priced at DIO 10s, and surely it will meet with
approval by people of refined taste. Diamond
and Ruby, Emerald, Sapphire, Pearl, Opal
Bangles in a profusion of exquisite styles.
A DAINTY DIAMOND
CRESCENT BROOCH
A Favorite Style this, and
set with sparkling white Dia-
monds of special purity. Size
as pictured, £l5 10s. Larger
size, £26 10s.
...,Q J8. .‘.
--.\.«ea:4>“ ,
Silver
Toilet Necessaries.
The woman who has nobody to think of but
herself, and the woman who has somebody to
think of and for her, both enjoy the possession
of Silver Toilet things. Silver Brushes and
Sparkling Cut Glass Bottles and Boxes on a
Toilet Table are pleasing to look at, and if
bought here are easily bought, for are not our
prices taken all round the most favorable price
obtainable ? Some prices to help you decide :
...-.<:-x\',/*./:’4"’éfé¥'5"3~‘ - ‘
”"f' 1? «k..\\_:" 6.? n} .'f!
i r ‘é\:: NE'Sé‘u dj\“v \\
w‘g/jz‘ﬁ‘ﬁ‘: x7$~t§h {.32
\ ~ 7‘- r : ' ‘ .- ”(\‘w
l/U/r 1" i4“ ”319‘ ‘5 J,“ i “2‘ :.I I I“ ‘ H‘K‘wlw \n
’ / W1 722m A M» A» m
Solid
Silver
Hair
Brushes
16s 6d, 18s
6d, 21s, 22s
6d, 255, 30s,
355, 40s, 425. We stock none of the flimsy
rubbish- so extensively advertised now-a-days.
We have no room for these. A reliable article
at a price that is fair is our motto. Silver-
mounted Combs, 3s,'4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d. Fine Quality real Shell
Combs, with handsome Silver Mounts, £1 2s
6d, £1 ss. Silver Cloth Brushes, 9s 6d,
15s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s 6d ; large size with handle
;£2 10s—a sort of family Cloth Brush. Silver-
Mounted Ebony Hair Brushes, 10s 6d, 14s 6d.
Mirrors to match, 8s 6d and 10s 6d. Cloth
Brushes, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d. Mens’ Military
Brushes in Ebony, with silver mounts, two in
a leather travelling case for 21s, 255, or loose,
9s 6d and 10s 6d each. Brushes in cases in
every style and at all prices. A particularly
fine set is in the exquisite cherub style, four
Brushes, Mirror and Comb, for £8 Bs.
CUTE LITTLE
CHARfIS
All the curious as well as
lovely styles find a present-
ment in our unexcelled stock
of these popular gifts for
Women. They come in every
shape and style you can think
of, and many you could never
think of. Gold Puss in Boot, as here pictured,
8s 6d. Rat in Hat, 8s 6d. Pipe, 8s 6d. Old
Boot, 6s 6d. Anchor, 8s 6d. Greenstone
Battleaxe, 8s 6d. Hearts, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d,
6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, up to £75. A multitude
of styles—some plain, some set with stones;
but all new, all pretty, and all good value. A
choice line of Gold and Pearl Fancy Pendants
in new designs, 22s 6d, 255, 355, 425, 555.
Some of them with Turquoises in conjunction
with the Pearls.
.[4
ﬁw
.‘wa
GOLD
CROSS PENDANTS.
Some plain, others chased. Some in 9ct.
gold, others in 15ct. All prices—7s 6d, 8s 6d,
9s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d, 18s 6d, 22s 6d, 255,
425, 455.
Gift Suggestions at Stewart Dawson’s j Gift Suggestions at Stewart Dawson’s


“ H.P.” : Re the birth-rate problem, if
there is one. lam just recovering from an
attack of Sairey Gampism. Believe that “ pusson”
is responsible for much of the declining birth-rate
trouble. Instead of trying to encourage “trade,”
Mrs. Gamp appears to take a savage delight in
making the conditions of life so awful during her
reign that the thing doesn’t happen again. During
our recent infliction, there were five distinct
Gamps in the house before we were through.
No. 1 came along with the medical man.
While assisting him Bhe fainted, and had to be
laid flat in the passage with her head sticking out
of the open door to catch the breeze, until she
recovered sufficiently to have some refreshments.
Then she went home. Costs, 10s. and the value
of the “refreshments.” No. 2 came. She had
sore feet, and left home without her specially-
manufactured foot-wear. She got the necessary
articles after a time, but too late to save her (ana
us). She would not do anything, but stayed on
until we got another nurse, “just to oblige us.”
Item, one sore-footed Gamp for three days, 255.
No. 3 was a huge, unwieldy monster in a lilao
print dress, and with a wall eye. She was of the
“born tired” kind. After tne trying ordeal of
getting her patient a cup of tea, she required an
hour’s rest. She never put anything in its place
after using it. Everything went into the bath-
room. That room is only about 6xB, but the
amount of bric-a-brac that woman stowed into
it clearly indicated that she had missed her
calling. She should have been a furniture-
packer. We stood the frenzied glare of her wall-
eye for about ten days. Then, fortunately, the
bathroom got full up, and having to walk further
with the rest of our household effects caused her
to go “bung” in the legs, and she retired.
Luckily, her hands remained sound, or we would
have had to send a messenger to carry home her
feet. Price of this megatharium, 50s. No. 4
came at great personal inconvenience, and only on
condition that she slept at home. We began to
miss sundry goods and chattels out of the house
about this time. We did not worry much, how-
ever, but remarked, “Oh ! it will turn up when
we dig the bathroom out.” But, in many instances,
it didn’t. We think we know something now.
Never engage a nurse who “ must go home every
night.” Never engage a nurse who has a wall-eye
and a lilac dress. Never engage one with sore
feet, or one who faints. In short, never require
one at all. No. 4 cost 40s. Total cost of Gamp,
£6 ss. in cash, and about as much more on account
of incompetence, going home at night, &c.
Stated by the manager of Adelaide Sewag «
Farm that there is a steady demand from the city
for small articles of value, lost and supposed to be
travelling in his direction. A Hebrew gentleman
ia still awaiting the return of his false teeth, but
has been warned not to expect them with any con*
fidence.
PAIN IN THE STOMACH.
It is most annoying, as well as disagreeable, to
be troubled with pains in the stomach, and there
is no use to be annoyed, for one dose of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy will allay
the pain. Try it once, and be convinced. Sold
at Is. 6d. by all dealers.*
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
The mangle, in an emergency, makes a good
weapon of defence, ranking for effectiveness with
the mitrailleuse, life-preserver, tram-car, battle-
ship and judgment summons. Recently a posse
of bailiffs attacked the residence of a Melbourne
gentleman, who lived on the second floor of a
flat-building; and were repulsed, with great loss,
by means of the said laundry implement. Stand-
ing at the head of the stairs, the man and his
wife, without showing themselves, pushed the
mass of ironmongery over, and it did the rest,
falling on the enemy like a Papal excommunica-
tion. When the chief writtist arose slowly, with
the upper portion of the clothes-stiffening machine
around his neck, he renounced the bailiff profes-
sion in a solemn voice for ever. Then he and his
minions crept silently out of the building, leaving
the unserved document and the disrupted mangle
on the field of battle. They hadn’t even the
satisfaction of being able to charge anybody
definitely with assault. No one dared to go up
and identify the foe for fear of more mangles.
g
A DAINTY LITTLE PRESENT.
Combination Pin Cushion, Thimble
and Real Holder. Nickel plated with
plush Top. damps on to table by means
of spring. Price 2/- each, 3 for 6/6, box of
„ 6 for 10/6. Larger Size,
with weighted pedestal—stands any-
where—price 3/6, 3 for 0/*, box of 6 for
17/-. All post-paid to any address in
Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand on
receipt of price. Address all orders—
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
DUS
A GOLD or SILVER WATCH FREE!
\
VV».'i
frixv• #
SEND NO MONEY.
WE hereby undertake to give one of our Famous
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE
The only condition is that, if your answeris correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
D**T M**B T**S C****E
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if
you have won the Watch. We are making this offer
solely with the object of introducing and advertising
our goods. Forward your letter to our address
GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL COMPANY, Pitt St., Sydney.
Or BOX 865|
G.P.O.
«p
%%
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victors.
Ganz Induotlon Motor. SOLE AGENTS i
The Austral Qtis Engineering C®., [td., South fflelb.
SPECIAL GRAND CONCERT
To give enjoyment to all lovers of music.
PROG RAM ME.
Serenade of Mephistofele (Faust) “ Gounod ” M. PL ANCON
Yio Lo Sapete—“Cavelleria Rusticana ” ... MADAME CAL YE
To Anthea .. C. SANTLEY
Air des Bijoux (Faust) ... ... ... SUZANNE ADAMS
Dai Campa dai prata Mephistofele ... COM. CARUSO
Why. Davydoff ... ... ... MADAME YIALTZEYA
Andante “Favourita” ... ... ... M. RENAUD
Lullaby from “Harold” ... ... MADAM FIGNER
If a combination of artists such as the above could be got together, there is no hall in Australia that would accommodate the crowd they would draw,
and seats would sell at as fancy a price as ever gladdened the heart of theatrical impressario.
It is now possible to have the above singers and hundreds of other artists performing in your own home ; naturally, you ask how 1 The answer is ready
at once— By means of the Gramophone. Write to us and we will forward you, post free, list of records and machines, with the name of
our nearest agent, where you may hear the machine, and judge as to its excellency yourself. The best Christmas present a man can get his family is a
GRAMOPHONE. Agents everywhere, prices to suit everyone.
No. 3
New Type
mm
Other Styles,
£1 Is. to £32 10s,
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland—
HEINDOREE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GrENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia.-
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
s
The London Medical Record
says“ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected."
The British Medical Journal
says “ Benger’s Food has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania)
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tan of One Peniyr
an every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall s on and after it
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for eaoii am
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
LAUNCESTON CUP, Launceston, Tas., Jan. 20, 1904, 50,000 at 5/1.
HOBART CUP, Elwick, Hobart, Tas., Jan. 27, 1904, 50,000 at 5/1.
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., Feb. 27, 1904, 100,000 at 10 1%
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 1, 1904, 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers wffl please note tl»* GEORGE ADAMS ("TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES hi* business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can sand their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there hare no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients. _______
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
THE
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA 06 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
■■ 1 i m+w —■-r+y ■^y
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
, Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay* v * ■ —‘ - ——
For all information regarding Eates, Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
TUB FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OE ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pam or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest ib is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
100 ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,— l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my caso to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to saj' that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
i t once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at.once,
und “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Vic Loria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
! mall bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
lad a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
vis seven months old. She had been suffering from
,i-oiicliitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
las not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
an for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. 11. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“Lien welly n,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“ Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN'S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distiv ss in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send lor more. I have never kept in bed- one day
since 1 commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quiLe worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did net require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“ WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case,
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. ,V. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send m* on*
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. Xam morel than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria,
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED,
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me-of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of iseven
years, during whigh period I was Scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a>year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charteville,
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne'S
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong 1 , Victoria.
Office: No, ft, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney, Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .


The Justice of Mandhar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A shobt man — brown and grizzled and sailor-
like—he sat on a gin-case and smoked and said
nothing, till the trader, having solaced himself
with an inch or two of rum, handed over the
bottle.
“Have a tot, old man, and wake up ! Blest if
you’re any better company than that stone chap
up there.”
Micklejohn looked up at the little black image.
“That’s Siva!” he said—“ Siva, the Destroyer.
Seen him before many a time. India ! Where’d
you get him ? ”
“Bought him —’n’half -a - dozen other gods,
’n’devils, ’n’things—from a Javani chap that came
over here from Madura with Runjal Sooda last
trip.”
Micklejohn jumped off his gin-case. “ A Java-
man ? Where’s he now ? What’s he like ? What
brought him to Borneo ? ”
“What brought him here? Dunno! What
he’s like y’can see for y’self, for here he comes ! ”
Smash went the little man’s clay on the floor,
as he darted round the hardware-cases. “Dark’s
the word, Fleming ; I want to have a look at this
chap before he sees me ! ”
“Right! ” said the trader, squinting under the
counter to see that his shooter was handy. He
had been too long in “ Malarky ” * to be surprised
at anything.
The Javani camer^in —short and bandy-legged,
but long of arm and square as a Bugi buckler.
His white cotton jacket lay open on his burly
chest; in his scarlet waistband was the inevitable
kris, with his hand upon the hilt. This Fleming
noticed, and marked, too, how the eyes glanced
Bwiftly here and there from beneath the rim of
the rattan hat.
“ Micklejohn’s man, for a tael! ” he said to
himself. “ Hard case, too. High old shine
directly ! ”
The customer wanted a revolver—a good one.
“ A self-cocker! ” he explained, in Malay, and
Fleming brought down a case. “ This is the sort
of thing you want. Good pistol, but dear!
Twenty-five dol Great Sc Hold on, man !
hold on to his wrists, till I collar his sticker ! ”
then Fleming was across the counter, and the
three rolled over and under and round about—
Micklejohn fast upon the Javani’s wrists and
Fleming snatching vainly at the kris, till from
the little crowd about the door a Dyak boy
rushed in and jerked it from the scabbard.
“ What’n blazes have we got hold of, anyhow ? ”
said the panting trader, as he sat upon the
trussed-up enemy. “The little brute’s dam near
as strong as me ! —’n’ that’s more’n any man in
Dobang can say.”
The captive’s jacket had been torn off in the
scrimmage. Micklejohn pointed to the muscle-
ridges on the back and shoulder. “ Ever hear of
Samatang ? ”
“Let’s see! Oh yes!—course I have. Sama-
tang, the wrestler! But, didn’t he get into
trouble a month or two back ? Killed somebody,
didn’t he, over the other side ? At Sourabaya, I
think it was.”
“Yes! There hadn’t been a man in the port
could wrestle him till I was there in the Tantallon
Castle. Then my mate, Tom Ballantyne, took
him in hand and made a holy show of him.
So this chap waits his chance, and the very
night before we were to sail he lets Tom have it,
over the shoulder, from behind —you know the
style.”
“Ay, I know! Killed him?”
“Lived half-an-hour ! So I swore I’d fix the
fellow for it, and I gives the old Tantallon the
slip, and sets to work to hunt him up. Found
he’d bolted over here, and followed him ; but I
didn’t think I’d drop across him so soon.”
“ Sure of your man ? ”
“Ay ! —and lie’s sure of me, too ! Look at his
face ! Salamat pagi, my friend —I’ve got you at
last ! ” ,
“Hum!” said Fleming. “ You ve got him,
eert’nly—but what you’re going to do with him’s
another matter.”
“Do with him? Get him tried, of course!
Won’t the Dutchies try him forme?”
Fleming cackled. “ Some of you sailor men’s
too bloomin’ innocent to go about without a dry-
nurse ! Why, you haven’t got a single witness
except yourself. You don’t s’pose the Mynheers’d
hang him on your bare word, do you?—even if
they tried him ? But they won’t. They let the
Raja of Dobang captain his own ship. Pity you
didn’t wait, ’n’ put a bullet through Mr. Sama-
tang on the quiet ? ”
“ Murder, that would be ! What I want is
justice /” _ )
“Not much difference, sometimes! Matters
out of your hands now, in any case; here come
the Raja’s men to collar the pair of you. I’ll go,
too. I know Mandhar Alam a bit, and I can
patter Malay with the best of ’em.”
* » * *
When the Hollanders —because they couldn’t
help it —“ conceded ” to Mandhar Alam the right
to manage his own people in his own way, they
said it was because he was a wise man and a just.
At which notion Mandhar had been hugely
tickled, for wise he certainly was not, except in
knowing that he wasn’t; while, as for his “jus-
tice,” it was at any man’s disposal—upon the
most unreasonable terms. But he had a rough-
and-ready way of settling cases in which no coin
was to be extracted from either party, and, said
he, in re Micklejohn versus Samatang—
“Let them be cast together unto the other
Raja. Both he cannot seize at once, and, while
he devoureth one, let the other be taken out
again!—it will be the finger of Allah.”
The “other Raja” had, many a year before,
been placed—a six-foot infant—in an ancient
tank, wherein—sustained with dog, and pig, and
goat, and now and then with man—he had grown
to monstrous size and super-saurian sagacity.
* * * *
A great day in Dobang ! From Sura —from the
villages of the Jamir—even across from Moda
Island, the people had flocked to see crocodilus
dine once more upon homo.
The tank, of antique Javani workmanship, was
faced with stone throughout its square of 80 yards
a-side, save at the spot where, forced aside by the
roots of a giant umbrella tree, the wall gave access
to a huge sub-aqueous cavity—the sanctum of the
scaly Highness.
The two-legged Highness spoke. God was
great, and he, the Raja, was just. Let God
decide, and the people be satisfied. “ There is no
God but God !—and Mahomet is His prophet!
Bring forth the men ! ” ’
Naked, both—with girded waists and coir
lines attached. The white man dazed and
unrealising; the yellow man—realising to the full
—fatalistically indifferent. In the middle of the
tank, just peeping from the oily surface, a rugged
ridge of grey showed where the mighty lizard
waited. He knew ! It was not the first time his
hideous, bone-roofed eyes had looked upon a crowd
like this.
“ I will count,” said Mandhar, when the cap-
tives had been placed upon opposite sides of the
tank, nearly equidistant from the scaly horror.
“ At the word ‘ five ’ —push ! ”
“ Satu !” he began— “ Dual — Tiga ! — Ampatl”
—the fifth word was lost in the splash, as both
men struck the water at the same instant.
Into vigorous life at the sound started the log-
like brute in the middle, and over he came with a
steam-launch ripple towards the yellow man. The
crowd held its breath —then broke into shrill
Asiatic acclamation as the reptile’s wide-sweeping
tail brought him round again and urged him for-
wards upon the white man. But then again he
turned, embarrassed with his riches, and, as he
hung hesitating and churning up the water, there
was another splash. Mandhar Alam—swearing
roundly by the Koran that here was the rarest
sport he had ever seen—had missed his footing and
furnished the undecided reptile with yet another
possibility.
Pandemonium, then, of shriekings and swear-
ings and rushings. The captives’ waist-lines were
let go, and then came plunge upon plunge, as the
pressure from behind sent half-a-dozen of his sub-
jects to keep company with their floundering
ruler, whose heavy gold embroidery would soon
have sunk him had not Micklejohn swum over
and gripped him. Then somebody hooked up
the white man’s waist-line, and the pair were
hauled out together.
Said the potentate, when he had got his breath
—“ God is great! and thou art Mandhar’s brother!
Let the Javani pig be taken out, bound hand and
foot, and cast in again.”
But Samatang—noting that the babel of shouts
and shots had scared the astounded crocodile back
to his private apartment —had swiftly climbed
the broken stonework above it, and was gone !
* * » *
“ Saved him ! Ay ! but it was only to save
myself. I’d a deal sooner have shoved the cruel-
hearted dog under water. Called me his brother,
too—l’d as soon be Samatang’s ! S’pose the
tigers ’ll get him / ”
“No tigers in Borneo, old man.”
“Plenty, Fleming—on two legs. Curse the
place ! I’ll clear!"
ALEX. MONTGOMEBY.
* The Malay Archipelago.
“ E.” : Wandered into a cafd, kept by one
Mahmoud, attracted by the Turks ranged round
the counter. Expected a thrill of Asia—
divans, marble fountains, iced syrups, real coffee,
choice confectionery, an elaborate narghile, or at
least exotic cigarettes. The Turks had nothing.
They sold simply ice cream, lemon squashes, shakes,
bad lollies—and me. Melbourne has contracted
a bad habit of reducing everything to dull, drab-
colored, prosaic uniformity. There are touches of
Bohemianism in Sydney, none in Melbourne.
French dinners, Eastern confectionery, American
drinks, Greek cafes—one seeks for them in vain.
Everybody seems to eat, drink, and smoke the
same. Nobody tries to be original. The swell
establishments are all built on the same heavy
English lines. And even on the Flat, on race
days, in the “Hawkers’ Reserve,” about 10 acres of
it, one can procure nothing except eternal squash
and saveloy-and-roll. In time all Melbourne citi-
zens will wear the one-colored tie, eat the one
jam, swear the one swear, and be buried in the
one grave. The place is Desolation. lam going to
Geelong for new sensations.
The Rouseabout.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a humble hut, on a scrubby flat,
Near the land of the setting sun,
Li ved a simple but honest rouseabout,
Who rejoiced in the name of Dunn.
He could warble as sweet as a bandicoot,
He could dance like a kangaroo,
His age, it was just about four feet-ten,
And his height about thirty-two.
He worshipped a beautiful female maid
Who lived on a distant plain ;
Whose husband had gone to a far-off land,
And had never come back again.
She had bright blue hair j she had rosy eyes,
And her cheeks were of golden hue.
So Tommy set off, as the sun went down,
To tell her he loved her true.
He traversed the hills and the mountain peaks,
He climbed up a rugged plain ;
He swam through the beds of the dried-up creeks
And he tramped o’er the raging main.
He saw not the wind on the distant hills;
He heard not the rising moon ;
For his soul was dead, and his burning head
Was as calm as a big monsoon.
His eye, like a hurricane, roared aloud;
His voice, like the lightning, flashed ;
The blustering blizzard it boomed and burst
As on through the dust he splashed.
He rode on a flea-bitten chestnut mare,
With a patent pneumatic tyre;
And the sparks from the feet of his flying steed
Set Billabong Creek on fire.
He leapt from the train at the half-way house,
And stood at the maiden’s door;
He wept at the sight of that dear old spot
Which he never had seen before;
He stood on his head at the maiden’s feet,
And he begged her his lot to share,
Then, brushing a tear from his glist’ning ear,
He spoke of his dumb despair.
“ See ! see ! ” he exclaimed to the winsome maid,
In syllables tall and sweet,
“ The whole of my expectations I cast
At thy beautiful, blushing feet.
For you I would live—through Eternity !
Say ‘ yes ’ —for my own sweet sake,
And without a murmur I’ll sacrifice
All the millions I hope to make.”
Then the maiden rested her blushing nose
For a moment on Tommy’s chest,
And she said, as she cuddled his crumpled form
To her soft and capacious breast,
“ As I have been true in the years to come,
I’ll be true in the past,” said she.
And she winked her ear at a native bear
That was perched on a pumpkin tree.
N.S.W.
THOS. E. SPENCER.
Expel Uric Acid and Otto Renewed Health.
Kutnow’s Powder expels Uric Acid and Banishes Disease-Breeding Impurities from
the Blood, Brain, Nerves and Tissue. Thus is the system purified and derange-
ments of Stomach, Liver, and Kidneys rectified by the use of Kutnow’s Powder.
OU cannot expect to enjoy even
fair health when your stomach,
liver, or kidneys are inactive and your
system has become weakened and de-
ranged by an accumulation of uric acid
and other disease-breeding products.
Kutnow’s Powder not only dissolves
the acid accumulation, but also expels
without any pain the dissolved products
from the system. This relieves the
stomach, liver, and kidneys of the im-
purities which hinder the performance
of their proper functions, improves
digestion, promotes nutrition, and
furnishes an increased supply of energy
to both brain and body.
I KUTNOW’S i
IMPROVED EFFERVESCENT CARLSBAD
POWDER.
2r
JUiactiensprung or Deer Uap
tff
41FARRIHCD0N ROAD. UU
STEREO trade
(Visaed at staiiqnibw i
Important Warning
There are many substitutes for
Kutnow’s Powder offered
various names, as something
cheaper, and “just as good.”
These substitutes are Injurious
to health, and therefore not
cheap at any price. Insist upon
having the
GENUINE
KUTNOW’S POWDER.
DR. DUZAKLIAN WRITES
“ Broussa, Turkey,
“ Aug. 10,1902.
“ Dear Sirs, —Having used two
bottles of your Kutnow’s Powder, I
take the privilege of stating my satis-
faction in regard to the prompt effect
in rheumatism and constipation. The
taste is very pleasant. I have perfect
confidence in its beneficial action.—l
am, yours very truly,
“K. DUZAKLIAN, M.D ”
COLONEL ROLLESTON WRITES
“ Saltford House, near Bristol,
“ March 21,1903.
“ I have been using Kutnow’s
Powder for years as a mild aperient
and for indigestion, and have found it
excellent.
“V. ROLLESTON, Colonel.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtained from all Chemists and Medicine Vendors throughout the World.
Proprietors—S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUT.NOW BROS, Ltd, 863 Broadway, New York.


Cinderella.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My dear, our honeymoon
Will soon be ended —
The bills came in too soon—
But it was splendid.
Ghosts, in this moonlight rare,
Talk lawyer’s Latin;
Yet you sit smiling there
In olive satin.
You have indeed the fine,
Expensive graces;
And like a dream divine
Your proud, white face is.
That jewelled fan you swing
To scare off sorrow—
I wonder what ’twill bring
When pawned to-morrow.
My dear, I know that you
Could conquer Hades,
And, with a fashion new,
Charm fair, dead ladies.
Gudrun, who was a snare
For heroes olden,
Would envy you your hair—
So long, so golden.
Helen, with finer wit,
Would be too glad to
Steal shining strands from it
Her own to add to.
Venus herself would leave
Her own bright planet
From your moist lips to thieve
Their red pomegranate.
Your beauty and your grace
The gods might fetter—
Yet they cannot efface
A lawyer’s letter.
The stars shine glorious
As if they’d planned a •
Last Lantern Show for us
On God s verandah.
Sweet, while with joy and woe
We sit here juggling,
There is a Soul below
With beetles struggling.
While you gazed on the scene,
In your own rare way,
Her head you might have seen
Shine on the stairway.
Around her eyes are dear.
Brown little freckles —
To one with eyesight clear
. Worth many shekels.
She is a Rhodope—
And you can trust a
Small thing like this to me,
My dear Augusta.
You know our prospects, Gus
(God save the marker !),
Are dark as Erebus—
Her hair is darker.
And she has eyes that shine —
Swift-sparkling, stellar—
Like jewels in a mine,
And light her cellar.
Her head is full of plans,
And she is rich in
Dreams, while she scours the pans,
And scrubs the kitchen.
To her there come at dawn
Four crystal coaches,
And they, my dear, are drawn
By gold cockroaches.
The first coach holds the Prince —
Of German brood is
He, and his clothes evince
His credit good is.
Dear, we know—l and you—
And I could tell a
Tale beautiful and true
To Cftiderella.
One heart she has to give,
And once to give it,
One life she has to live,
And once to live it.
Here comes the Landlord ... So
He will not trust a
Week longer. We must go,
My dear Augusta.
N.S.W.
V.J.D.
A Bush Tragedy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A couple- of children sat on the wooden step of
a galvanised iron hut. The elder, a boy of ten,
had found the day long and uninteresting, and
wished heartily for his mother’s return, for
the sister of three, left in his charge, bored him
considerably. “Oh, go and chivey ’oppers yer-
self,” he ejaculated, impatiently, at last, as she
resumed her insatiable demand for fresh supplies
of grasshoppers. He threw himself back on the
steps, his bare, sun-browned legs waving in the
air, his old hat well over his eyes.
Time sped away quickly, and he was not con-
scious of its flight till a wild, terrified cry recalled
him to his senses. He started to his feet and
ran through the tussocks towards the creek
whence the lamentation came. The baby stood
knee-deep in the long grass, her arms extended
towards him, and her little face convulsed with
crying. .
“ Billie, it bit me —a snake bit me.”
“Stop that row! Wot’s the good o’ hollerin ? ’
said Billie, practical always. “ W’ere did it bite
yer ? ” The child twisted round a plump, grimy
arm.
“By cripes!” said Billie, “ it’s a pisoner, all
right.” There were two small punctures on her
wrist. Billie knew the marks.
“ Billie, don’t let me die.” The baby mind had
partly realised the horror. They had always told
her, “ If a snake bites yer, yer’ll die.”
One had bitten Collie and he died. It was only
last month, and the baby remembered it all.
, ‘‘By gum, no,” said Billie, thoughtfully.
Maybe I’d best cut the bit out.”
Such a comforting suggestion could hardly fail
to draw forth another shriek of terror.
“By gum,” said Billie, “you’re a coward—
worse’n a Chow.” He thought hard. Perhaps
he could go for the doctor. He remembered one
case when the doctor had been sent for, and the
patient recovered. He began to feel quite
relieved.
“Yer most likely won’t feel nothin’, if the
doctor cuts it out; I’d best fetch ’im.”
Billie, in home ways, was old with the pre-
cocity of a bush-born boy; a mere baby in others.
“ ’Urry up, quick, an’ come along inside.” he said.
“ I want my ’oppers, Bill.” She pulled away
fro in him, and running back hastily picked up an
old fish tin. “ A lot o’ my ’oppers has gone,” she
wailed, looking into the tin; “ Oh, Bill! ”
“ Come on,” said Billie, “ never mind the old
’oppers. Wot odds about them? Yer’ve got to
stop in the kitching, mind that, an’ I’m goin’ to
catch the brown pony and fetch the doctor.”
“ Don’t go way, Billie.”
“ Stop hollerin’, I say ! I must! Yer don’t
want to die, do yer ? ”
Women had to be spoken to like that, Billie
knew. They couldn’t have so much sense as a
man. He lifted his sister into a box which stood
on the floor, while she clung tightly to the tin
with its few remaining “hoppers.”
“Now,” he said, “you’ve got to stop in there,
mind that.” He rushed to the cupboard and cut
a large slice of bread, which he spread with a
plentiful supply of dripping, and brought it to
the child. It is significant that he did not think
of himself. Bush men are like that. He 'then
securely fastened the window, and going out did
the same to the door on the outside.
The brown pony proved troublesome to catch.
Billie was very hot and tired from running before
he managed to slip a broken bridle over its head.
An old sugar bag served for a saddle, and with
his short legs reaching a very little way on either
side of his steed, Billie set out for a ten-mile
ride. Once the pony got going he was hard to
stop. Billie, having no stirrups, found it difficult
to get a pull on the bridle. The pony threw
down his head, and a dozen times Billie was
nearly over his ears. It grew dark before he
reached the township, and the boy found it hard
to keep to the track. Then the moon rose, the
glorious, Australian, summer moon, and by its
light the way became clear. It was eight o’clock
when the doctor, standing by his little gate to
get a breath of cool air, saw Billie ride furiously
up to the pub opposite. The child slipped to the
ground, and with the air of a man flung his bridle
to the nearest idler.
“Come quick; our young un’s bit with a
snake,” he said, simply. A few minutes later, a
light buggy was spinning quickly over the road
Billie had ridden. Billie occupied a place on the
seat, and kept up the speed by incessant urging,
though the road was bad, and more than once
they narrowly escaped a capsize.
In time, Billie explained how it was that, his
mother having gone for rations, he alone had been
in charge. Then he added, earnestly, “You’ve
got to drive quicker’n yer doin’, or the kid’ll be
stiff’nin’ afore we gets there.” The doctor gasped,
and applied the whip again.
At last, the drive was over. At the sound of
wheels, a long-limbed woman came to the door-
way. The light behind her showed all her angles.
She held a child close in her arms, and called out,
“ Who’s that ? ” in a voice that matched the un-
graciousness of her figure.
“Oh, Lord, Lord l ” she moaned, when the
doctor had explained the circumstances. “No
sooner is one trouble over but another begins.
Oh, Lord ! ”
The doctor followed her in, and examined the
child by the light of a tallow candle. The heavy,
lethargic sleep which follows snake-bite had
already the little one in its clutches. The lips
were blue and slightly swollen, the eyelids heavy
when he tried to raise them with his fingers. He
feared ihe case was beyond his skill. Neverthe-
less,, he drew his syringe, and injected strychnine.
Then, by his orders, the mother put the child into
a tub of hot water, and they forced stimulants
between her lips. Billy had, unaided, taken the
horse out of the shafts, and stood by, an interested
spectator.
But as the night wore on weariness overpowered
the boy, and he fell asleep on a bench in the
corner. The room was hot and airless, though the
doctor had caused door and windows to be opened
vyide. The child had not regained consciousness,
and every effort to rouse her seemed cruel as well
as useless.
Towards 3 o’clock a curlew called dismally ;
then for the first time the woman broke down.
“ It’s the last girl I ’ad left,” she sobbed bitterly,
“and to-morrow there’ll be another grave to dig.”
Her thin body was shaken by sobs. The doctor
tried t<3 cheer her, but he was young, and at a loss
how to act in presence of such grief.
When Billie awoke it was daylight; the doctor
had gone.
A large box which stood under the window had
been turned on its side, and covered with a white
sheet. There was something on the box. Billie
would not look; he dared not go near, but shrank
back on his bench.
_ “Billie, dear, come and get yer breakfast,” said
his mother’s voice. There was a difference in the
voice—Billie knew. He slid from the bench and
moved slowly to the table. His mother had cut
large slices of bread and dripping, but, in spite of
his supperless evening, he could not eat. At last
he turned away and went drearily towards the
fireplace, where he picked up an old fish-tin, at
the bottom of which were still some half-dead
grasshoppers. Then he vaguely felt that there
was a last duty owing to the sister he had bullied
and loved. Billie scarcely knew he had loved her
for that matter.. He carried the tin disconsolately
out into the sunshinp. Down by the bank of the
creek he found a soft place in the ground, where
he dug hard with a blunt stick, and buried the
tin and the grasshoppers deep in the hole. Then
he sat down beside it and looked dully at the
creek,, and wondered why God made snakes.
N. CAMPBELL.
A tip for N.S.W. Education Minister
Perry :
When a single male teacher is sent to a bush school the
mothers of the locality who have eligible daughters
tumble over each other to offer him board. Successful
caterer always tries to make out that he is smitten with
the charms of her ’Melia Ann, and wants to marry her.
Others get jealous, and poor pedagogue suffers. This is
responsible for so many removals among the male teachers
in charge of small schools.
Piles
For Many Years.
S'
OME six or seven years ago,”says Mr.
R. Russell, of “Rothsay,” Day-st.,
Drummoyne, Sydney, “Icontracted
that dreaded complaint, Piles. The
agony I experienced at times was almost
unbearable. On several occasions I was
forced to leave my work. I could
not get a decent night’s sleep, and
was very indifferent to my meals. _ i
consulted several doctors, and tried
many so-called cures in the hope of
alleviating my suffering, but to no
effect. In fact, I believe, if anything,
the complaint was aggravated, instead of
relieved. A friend recommended Zam-Buk
Ointment, and although I was not keen on
it, I decided to give it a trial, taking a course
of Bile Beans at the same’time to I «eP j condition was, indeed, wonderful,
bowels regular. In less than a month the change in my cunuiu ’,ll dis-inneared
Zam-Buk lessened the pain from the first application, andthe Piles l.
Tt is now six months sine© til© cur© was ©ff©ct©d, and I in&y, > . * y
Piles haTe disappeared for good. My health in general is also greatly improved, as I can
now eat heartily and get a good night’s rest.
u
STRAINED MUSCLES REMEDIED.
“Three weeks ago,” says Mr. Holmes, of Flinders-street W. Townsville, Q., “I had
the misfortune to slip and strain the muscles of my back, which caused me no end of pain
and inconvenience. Having heard of Zam-Buk as an embrocation, I decided to gne it a
trial. The first application gave me relief, and continuing to apply it in accordance with
directions, the stiffness and pain entirely left my, back. I have no hesitation in recom-
mending Zam-Buk as an invaluable embrocation.
ZAM-BUK, the Great Herbal Healing Balm, is a certain cure for PILES, RING-
WORM ECZEMA, BOILS, RUNNING SORES, SORE LEGS, BARCOO, RHEU
MATISM, NEURALGIA, etc. As an Embrocation for STRAINED MUSCLES and
TENDONS, ZAM-BUK is unequalled. As a HOUSEHOLD BALM for CUTS,
BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES, SUNBURN, FRECKLES, PRICKLY HEAL,
BLACKHEADS, and ROUGH SKIN, ZAM-BUK.is invaluable. From all medicine
vendors, PRICE Is. 6d. PER POT, or direct from THE ZAM-BUK CO., Pitt-street,
Sydney. SOOTHING, HEALING AND ANTISEPTIC.
zm am
A FREE
SAMPLE
will be sent
on receipt of
penny stamp
to cover post-
age. Address
—ZAM-BUK
CO., SYDNEY.
“RUB IT IN.”
HERBAL HEALIHG BALM
1
m
''V
r*N
Sx
9
9
m
Wi
cv
>
£
/:
and so does
PEARS


A Weak Stomach
Indigestion, No Appetite, Exhaustion, General Weakness,—All One
to a Sluggish Liver and Impure Blood.
£
as
55?
Mr. G. A. Boxall, of Prahran, Vio-i
toria, sends us his photograph and says:
“ I wish to tell every one the great
help I received from Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. I suffered terribly from weak-
ness of the stomach, indigestion, and
biliousness, and I had no appetite. I
felt tired all the time. Sometimes it
seemed almost impossible for me to
keep about. But after using Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a short time for my
blood and as a general tonic to my
nervous system, and with an occasional
use of the Pills to keep my bowels in
good condition, I rapidly improved, and
am now enjoying better health than I
have in a long time. I now keep these
medicines near at hand and take just a
little whenever I begin to feel badly,
for, you know, ‘a.stitch in time saves
nine.”’
“ The World’s Greatest Family, Medicine.”
Of course you cannot enjoy good health if your stomach gives out. You
must have an appetite, must digest your food, and must keep your liver
active. Muscular strength, nervous strength, desire to be active, and a feeling
of general good health may be yours by keeping your liver active and your
blood pure. It takes just two medicines for this: Ayer’s Pills for the liver,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for the blood. •
It’s Ayer’s Sarsaparilla you want. Insist upon getting “Ayer’s,” for it’s
Stronger, contains more ingredients, and cures quicker than any other kind.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Strengthens the Stomach and Aids Digestion
Ayer’s Pills keep the liver in a healthy condition.
Prepared by US. J. C. AYJSB St CO., Lowell, Mae*.. V. 8. A.
At Poverty Point.
“F.” : I saw a politician listening eagerly at the lates
musical comedy, penoil in hand. “ I’m looking for gooc
gags to work off on the electors,” he explained. Coming
out that politician had a disappointed look. The show
hadn’t panned out well.
“E.”: Rickards’show is poor, very poor, at present.
Too many “ clever” turns. I want somebody to sing a
good comic or character song. That’s all. But unfortu-
nately you can get a hundred to do what seems the
impossible to one who can do what appears dead easy.
Simplicity is one of the rarest qualities of art. And you
find tons of Albertos, who can turn beer into water and a
green handkerchief into a grand old rag, to a solitary
Peggy Pryde who simply tells you about the lodger who
took Smith’s missus to the seaside.
“ Weib.” : We have plenty of amateur talent. The
Shakspeare Society has just been evoking it in a remark-
able fashion at a soiree. -Yet the dramatic clubs do
nothing but rot. .In the last generation, or the one
before last, Melbourne had its Histrionic Club,-which
acted only plays of a high stamp, such as Bulwer’s
“Money.” What a fine Alfred Evelyn was Wm. Levy.
H. A. Bruce, as Graves, was better than any professional
to be had. Then the Garrick Club would stage even
“Hamlet,’' with a certain excellent forgotten Batten as
the Dane, or Sam Banks, the-compositor, would do Shy-
lock. On one of Shakspeare’s birthdays this club pre-
sented a tableau of his leading characters, with architect
Billy Pitt, of the Garrick’s Head, as Shakspeare. The
■Oddfellows’ Dramatic Club went for the highest game,
too. Zox made his debut with it, and Zox was an actor
all his life. His favorite character was a benevolent Jew
with a white vest.
“ H,” : Maskelyne partly writes the article on “ Magic”
in the “ Encyclopaedia Britannica ” supplement. He gives
away his played-out illusions. He had an indispensable
advantage through being in exclusive occupancy of the
London Egyptian Hallr It took months to prepare cer-
tain tripks. Nobody could possibly do them with a mere
fit-up at a. travelling show. One of the simplest mysteries
was Cleopatra’s Needle. A big imitation of it was placec
on a stand. The audience was satisfied that there coulc
be nothing underneal h but the four legs, Anybody might;
come and lift the needle, which seemed to be as light as
paper. Yet Maskelyne produced three men out of it!
Quite easy. The men were there al? the time. When
anybody proceeded to lift the needle, an apparatus in
the room above pulled it up, by invisible \yires,
Another trick of a ridiculously simple kind occupied the
combined genius of Maskelyne and De Kolta for a
long time. The stage showed a big cabinet hung with
olack velvet. No possibility of mirrors, or any communi-
cation with the outside. Yet people appeared and disap-
peared inside before the very eves of the audience. All
done by drawing black velvet over them. Maskelyne
advertised £500 reward for anyone who could imitate his
box trick. A conjuror did so, but could not work with
Maskelyne’s box, on which ground Maskelyne refused to
pay. The imitator sued him at law. The first jury
disagreed. The second decided against Maskelyne, and
so did the House of Lords, on appeal. He had to pay.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how lpng standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.?
George Musgrove says that altogether he made £3000
out of ‘ Tannhauser,” which Wagnerian opera is also the
biggest money-maker in the Land of Sauerkraut and
Lagerbier.
“N.”. “Sweet Nell of Old Drury" has naturally
turned many to read up history, with a glow over the
present Dukedoms of St. Albans, Richmond, and Grafton.
The dukes have been hugely endowed by the sympathetic
taxpayers. They were amid the proudest at the corona-
tion, because, you see, they had a family interest in it.
What do the bastard ducal clergy preach about ? Well,
the respect due from the lower orders to the Marquis of
Carabbas. Australia being an integral part of the Empire
with England, we must exact proper loyalty to those
dukes here. Deakin has not a proper reverence for the
Dukedoms of St. .Albans, Richmond, and Grafton, in
refusing a knighthood. We can imagine him saying in a
rebellious, if not treasonable, anti-British spirit, “ Do you
think I am going to label myself as inferior to those
bastards?” They are in the seventh heaven. An
Australian knight is only in the first. He gazes humbly
up half-a-dozen flights of back stairs to the dukes of
Charles II. Even Deakin will have to be a good deal
more illustrious before they recognise him. A Cham-
berlain is hardly good enough, though I have seen
Chamberlain and the Duke of St. Albans in one photo.
“ Melb.” : Christmas pantomime seemed an immortelle
at the Melbourne Royal. In 1855, when only half a year
old, this house had the panto, of the “Magician's
Daughter, or Harlequin King of the Golden Island." In
1856 Coppin had the Royal, where his Christmas panto,
was “ Harlequin Rule of Three and Pretty Practice.” In
1857 he gave “ Dick Whittington,” in which Fanny Mor-
gan waS a remarkable imitation of Joey Gougenheim. In
1858 the Royal gave “ Robin,,Hood” ; in 1859 “ Humpty
Dumpty," and in 1860 “ Little Jack Horner.” Sir William
and Lady Don were in the panto, of '61, “Harlequin
Valentine and Orson, or the Home of Romance and Tricks
of the Spirit of Fun.” Wybert Reeve writes, in his
recollections, that Lady Don died in aScoteh workhouse.
In 1862 Operatic Lyster, Musgrove’s uncle, had the
theatre, and his panto, was “ Harlequin Arabian Nights,”
the principal characters by Georgia Hodson and piquant
Kate Warde, who used to divide popularity on Ballarat
and Bendigo with Kate O’Reilly. In 1863 Barry Sullivan
was manager of the Royal, with the panto, of “ Lalla
Ropkh.” Rose Edouini (Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis) acted Fera-
morz, the Troubadour. Khorsanbad was alternated by
Charley Young and Dick Stewart. At Christmas, 1864.
Sullivan gave “ The Enchanted Island.” Lyster vvas at
the Royal again in ’65 with “Oberon.” In ’66 the
managers were Hoskins and Clarance Holt, with the
panto, ofGulliver's Travels.” In '67 the co-operative
management of JLambert, Vincent, Harwood, Bellalr,
Stewart, and Hennings gave “Tom the Piper’s Son and
Mary Quite Contrary.” The panto, of 1868 was “ Robin-
son Crusoe”; 1869, “Harlequin and The House that
Jack Built, or the Loves of Jack Melbourne and Little
Victoria.” 1870, “ Goody Two Shoes and Little Boy-
Blue,” by Marcus Clarke.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drhas away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
1». bottles. Made in London.*
An aged tenor’s comment on the Slapoffski-Musgrove
case : An artist’s voice can’t last for ever, but a manager's
cheek is eternal.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
“ B." : Wandered into the Gaiety (Melbourne),, the
other night, expecting something good from Frank
Clark, of the one-time famous, or notorious. “ Silk Stock-
ings” company. But it was a frost. Clark, done up as a
fireman, came in and bawled out some execrable verses
about the Lion-hearted Fire Brigade.” He wasn’t funny
—he wasn’t even vulgar.
m
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S °!ST AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes,
oplendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Kemoves Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
i Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
& CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
. -
SPEAKINC FIGURES.
56 PILLS in a Box for \j\\
A SALE OF OVER 6,000,000
Boxes per annum.
56 YEARS of EVER-GROWING
demands.
Figures, like actions, often speak louder tban words.
Tbe figures here given refer to
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
■s. ■
and Without any farther elaboration
they should convince every
man and woman of the fact that this
remedy must be of EXTRAORDINARY MER*T.
FIRSTLY: 56 Pills in a box for 1/1J must signify a large quantity
of a good thing at a low price.
•KOONDLY: A Sale of over 6,000,000 boxes per annum must mean
that the “good thing''’ is thoroughly appreciated by
the world at large.
THIRDLY: 56 years of ever-growing popularity must indicate
an expression cf public confidence and approval
such as can never be excelled.
That BEECHAM’S FILLS are considered the most
efficacious medicine for Liver and Bilious Disorders, Con-
stipation, Sick Headache, Impaired Digestion, Loss of
Nervous Energy, and threatened failure of the general
health, the figures above quoted are unerring and un-
questionable testimony.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. HELENB, Lancashire, and
sold everywhere in Boxes, price 1/1£ (56 Pills), and 2/9 (168 Pills).
Wn^r.
- ‘
NEW NO. 6 RIFLE—I9O3 MODEL,
22 Calibre. Peep Sight.
ADAPTED TO THE FOLLOWING CARTRIDGES:
U.M.C. CARTRIDGES Specially Recommended.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS.
ii
*
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
r iedicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THb BRO WN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
[D RMARTINJ
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R..C.5.E.,
L.P.P.S.G., L.M., etc..
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ ELM LEY HOUSE," 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN'S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disesse, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
■latest arid most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
ii eated by Correspondence at their own Homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
‘‘THE ‘ KNOX-MEItOEK ’ TREATMENT IX DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
lt has been the means of Curing Thousands who fo lowed out the instructions contained
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is;. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“ Press Extracts ” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE," 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY


We
z£,;.:z M&'jawst
Send
Garden
Hose
Any-
where
And when you’ve
got it, you’ll know
it’s the best hose
you ever used.
We stake our
reputation on our
Garden Hose, and
we were the first
rubber manu-
facturers in
Australia
too long and
too good a
reputation to risk
on Inferior Hose!
THERE’S HO BETTER GARDEN
HOSE THAN OURS.
THERE’S A GOOD DEAL NOT
SO GOOD.
SAMPLES and PRICES POST FREE. ’“•Cl
PERDRIAU & CO.,
Rubber
Merchants.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Engine MAN’S master key.-aii subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations;
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also COLE’S,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE, STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTH INGTON.
TRADE MARK*
Boißer Feed Pump.
sw~ SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. london•««* wewam.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, London
Warren Webster & Co- **•**
Enquiries Invited foe
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
MAMMATT’S
Spoons, Forks,
Knives,
Pocket
!§§*,«« «,
1 Celebrated
(PLATE and
}CUTLERY
@5380
an.
CbHjP
WOLF
u
07
tt
I. & J. MAXFIELD Proprs., SHEFFIELD;
At tfc* 8»
EMPIRE CHAMBERS f @3 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Aim At—
B£iOCE,» ' i
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Sole Agents for
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
FAY-EGAN WOODWORKING MACHINERY
i 4
‘ «ii—”i
”x 1:;- .O‘ .
“JET: "
L ,. up
. A ’
2‘ . \ ..
‘P'. i. L’
. ‘2 H: An ,
Iii" " - av”,
_/ _ . ’
-
•;v'
4
The « Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x 18Jin., opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, THB ADDBBSS OV
PARKE & LAGY GO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, etc., etc*
m
1Q
,.
\.
1 "\
4 -,f:;‘35.!:L‘-"r"
v 4": fig! 5;; 1|
. 5211-1.“ 445“}
2 z 5'» J W
. * _. 4....
T.
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE-
m
129 HAY ST., SYDNEY
Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
m
Af : ." V
Mil
on and Pumping Plants a
n
£
an
>ls, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
m
m
IM.
Size, 6J" x 3J" x 5".
are
and have
for Sale—
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(ail sixal
far all
SJurptoiief?
Boilers. Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
a. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 CXjA.BLEIZIS'CK STREET, S3TDME3T: *
The RAND DRILL CO., New York,
MAKE THE BEST
BOCK DRILLS - Aiß COMPRESSORS
IN THE MARKET.
LITTLE GIANT DRILL.
UNEQUALLED lor SIMPLICITY OF CONSTRUCTION, DURABILITY, ECONOMY OF WORKING AND MAINTENANCE.
The Little Giant and Slugger Drills. The Imperial Pneumatic Tools.
The Imperial High Speed Compressors. The Harrison Coal-Cutting Machines.
Particulars and
311-Sr ■ ’ 4
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
ons -from the Afeents —-
'
TO.
■
486 Collins St., Melbourne.
