

ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury s Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
E. <3-. WATKINS «*£ CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining: and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
I EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ss Pitt street, SYDNEY.
SOLE FOR BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, '!^ r
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARIS SIOCivED. fcentt toi
Testimonials and full particulars.
Over 2700 Hydro-Extractors Sold and at workr
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A' packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character —very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or hook of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wiiard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. U HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exp'osive. Cor. CLARENCE & KINC STS., SYDNEY
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY,
HOBART,
——
Ijadley’s Orient |jotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Gradb).
J. A. TURNER
Proprietor.
H.M. the King’s
Jury of Experts
awarded them
highest honors
London Exhibi-
tion-
“The Lancet'*
says; "Pare and
genuine, and
specially suitable
for Invalids.”
EL
SPA
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
The Australian Sailorman’s Book
E. J. BRADY’S
•‘Che U)ays of many Waters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
6s. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
E diswan ■ Lamp.
w
miifiiiiiii!
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
long life.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE MU SWAN
United Electric Light
Co.) Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot-Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Clyde Engineering C
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
PROOF
Head Office:
10 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY
Rapidly Gaining in Public Favor.
A Splendid Spirit of Undoubted
Quality at Moderate Cost.
■
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
TT
SPOONEE’S
SPOONERS
V
*
ftni. *•»•••'
ATENT LEATHER BOOTS
'GUZEO KIDS ft?
I«*UM ••l«>Ul| «*» «M« I*****'
,mut«iik •* ••***■,^•*•*^2
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) tid. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Era
Sold by aU Storekeepers,
Soot Shops, Saddlers, ete.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1204.1
[Saturday, March 14, 1903
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


Book Crade fldwrmement.
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S MAIL.
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Williamson, The Little White Nun, 3s 6d postage 6d
Cameron, Midsummer Madness, 3s6d, p. bd.
Thompson, Dynamo Designs, 14s Gd, p. 9a.
xr«f,iro Sf-iHipfi Life), 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Gould, The Silken Rein, 2s & 2s 6d, postage 6d.
Praed (Mrs. Campbell), Fugitive Anne, 2s 6d & 3s. 6d, p. tid
Wilson, Silver work and Jewellery, 6s, p. (id.
Goddeti, Australian Mining Co.’s Accounts, 4s, p. 6d.
Please Write to us for any Booh or Magazine yon Want,
trlease tin ' jy e nre always pleased to answer Inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane k London
~pr*ox* til© XjTJKTGtS, til©
tlx€3 VOICE
. . THB . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A . The Larynx, or organ of
voice. . .
B. The Trachba or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung-
D- A lobe of one of the lung
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
oING E R S
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JTJJUBES (Registered).
U Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drur/
... nucmfiTC' in Tins is 6d • from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist. Ipswich. Queensland- po»
S ° L free o!! reS ol 3temPB. 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE, and B'ELTON, GKIHWADE * fa.
Melbourne, Agents. _____
THE RED PAGE.
”m-yOW .. . the Scotch have been criticised,
X and the Irish ; and it comes to the Eng-
-1 1 lishinan’s turn. But the Englishman
won’t mind. Not because he is un-
touched ; but because he does n’t care. And that
not-caring is a mark of the essential English
superiority—in some things. Each of the three
Island Races has its good points and its bad ones ;
and each will welcome praise and defy blame.
But, when the Scot is criticised, however justly,
many Scots grow sullen; when the Irishman is
criticised, some Irishmen grow enraged. And
the Englishman ? He despises criticism ; he feels
himself above it; all arrows are blunted by his
armour of pride or indifference. Let the galled
jade wince : his withers are unwrung.
When you deal with the English type, you need
not take account of humourless individuals. When
you deal with the Scotch and Irish types you
must be careful. The want of humour exposes
itself as really-a want of logical faculty. Humour
is essentially a perception of incongruity, and the
faculty that detects incongruity is the faculty of
logical classification. A while ago it was denied
that Burns was the greatest poet that ever lived.
The average Englishman, told that Shakespeare
was not the greatest poet that ever lived, simply
shrugs his shoulders. But Burns! . . . the jade
winces— i.e., admits the need of defence i.e.,
admits his own doubt of the validity of the defence.
“ The Irish are the most savage of quasi-civilised
races.” And a humourless Irishman winces.
Now, mind you, that allegation is perfectly con-
sistent with other well-known allegations that
the Irish are among the bravest of races, that
their isle is the greenest, their women the fairest
—and so on, all reasonable, and all beside the
question. Blit humourless people cannot under-
stand that expressio unius is n o t ajfirmatio altirius,
unless that other js a precise logical opposite.
When we say that the big race-class A includes
the little race-features a, b, c, mark that we say
nothing at all about race-features d, e, / and the
rest. Yet one continually meets, in many phases,
the fallacy which takes for granted that if a, a
supposed bad feature, is included in a class, there-
fore d, a supposed good feature, is not included.
Another example, for clearer understanding of
the obvious. The Bulletin was formerly con-
sidered by some narrow people “a scandalous
paper.” (“Formerly” —because opinion has ap-
parently changed. In Sydney Telegraph of 28th
February, for instance, the Palace Theatre ad-
vertised at the head of its list of complimentary
press notices—
Bulletin says: “One commendable feature of ‘The
Wrong Mr. Wright’ is the fact that all its fun is CLBAIS
and WHOLESOME from the beginning- to the end of the
piece.”
—making The Bulletin, you observe, a criterion
of what is “clea,n and wholesome.”) When
Hebblethwaite’s book of verses, breathing simple
devotion to God and published by The Bulletin,
reached some narrow people, their astonishment
was great. Evep the two or three IMaoriland
writers under solemn league and covenant never
to offer verses to The Bulletin —because it was
“such a scandalous paper —found it necessary
to revise their impressions. From letters and
comments it appeared that into their narrow
minds had at last filtered a conception of Breadth
I Breadth which includes “piety” and “im-
” alike as manifestations of the Human, each
iv of appreciation from the standpoint of
alism. or of literature. These humourless,
Sal critics had been arguing that because The
tin 'included h, i, j , therefore it could not
>ly include <c,‘y, z.
J* . <s* '
A long introduction to TheEg’reqious English,
agus McNeill (Grantßichards; Bs.,(> d,). Ibis
iparently) a Scot’s reply to The Unspeakable
issued by the.same publisher. The writer,
irse,'has no more idea of stating the whole
;han Crosland had. He picks out national
and pours vitriolic ink upon them, with the
af making a readable and saleable book, and
owing that the Englishman also lives in a
house. Robert Buchanan would have been
nan for Crosland; yet “Angus McNeill,
rather & heavy hand, hits shrewdly if not
ly. The broad-shouldered, gehial, barbaric
ishman—the typical John Bull—is a type no
:r. .
k Lane is becoming a Ghetto ; my lord's house
s reek of gentlemen with noses, and ending
aum ” ; and the English Houses of Parliament, the
club in Europe, the mother of parliaments, the
dignified assemblage under the sun, is just a branch
■ Stock Exchange.
e English have learnt things from tin; African
■y have learnt that in a fight the great, broad-
dered, genial Englishman, instead of being worth
Frenchmen, is worth about ohe fiftieth part of a
farmer. They have learnt that the great, broad-
dered, genial Englishman is not above selling
ned horses and stinking beef to the country that he
. And they have learnt that when a great, broad-
dered, genial Englishman. is discovered m his
ipetenee or.his culpable negligence or his dishonour,
fie business of all the other great, broad-shouldered,
.1 Englishmen to get round him and -screen him
thepublic gaze and swear that he is a maligned and
nderstood man.
war, in fact,’ “ has been a tale' of shame and
miny and disaster from beginning to end. It
resulted in a peace winch practically settles
little, and an enquiry with closed doors.
J*
lat is a stimulating opening. Then it is de-
jd that the old-fashioned English business
is dead ; that old-fashioned English sport is
1 ; that the new-fangled English journalist
s upon only one stop —the bathotic stop.
b learnt to sing songs of Araby in one squalid
every morning, and he has since been able to
3 a gig [it should be motor-car] and out-
llate everything that considers itself possessed
rculation.” An effective chapter deals with
le Employed Person.”
e English are a nation of employed persons,
rever you go, from Berwick to Land’s End, you will
that in the main the men you meet are somebody s
ioyees. . . . The fact of being employed is indeed the
big and abiding fact in the average Englishman s
„ # He must work for somebody, otherwise he can-
he happy. The notion of working for himself
,1s him ... For a full century the rich mer-
its, enterprising manufacturers, colliery-owners, mill-
ers, and what not, in whom the English put their
s, have been preaching and fomenting this doctrine
very means in their power. To their aid in spreading
dorious truth they have brought the moralists and
Churches. If a man will not work, neither shall he
Servants, obey your masters. Punctuality is the
of business. Be faithful over a few things. Begin
fie bottom rung of the ladder. Mr. bo-and-So, the
rious billionaire, was once a poor working bhy in
Chester. Furthermore, if you dont work, and at our
.—well, to say the least of it, God will not love
i'e*S*cot never acquires that pathetic satisfaction in
g employed which permeates the beautiful.'Spirit of
English competitor. You will meet hoary and bald-
led Englishmen who will tell you with a quaver that
have been in the employment of one and the same
le, man and boy, for over half a century, sir ! Some-
the Englishman tells you this with a look of pride,
rather expects you to regard him as a sort of marvel,
aver occurs to him that he is really bragging of his
ineptitude—to use Mr. Crosland’s favorite abstrac-
, his own lack of enterprise. The number of Scots
i have been in the employment of one house for forty
■s, least of all the number of Scots who brag about it,
•obably not a round cloven. As a general rule, when
ot has been in a house forty years, it is his house,
he English wife is decried *, and “ McNeill'
•tes Solomon's virtuous woman as a Scotch
e—the example of what a wife should be.
11, Talmage, who was a great rogue, but no
l, “ guessed that kind of wife would make her
band very tired.” But the Englishwoman is
even good-looking, says “ McNeill,
very Week the English illustrated journals -give you?
es of photographs, beneath which you may read in ,
rancing capital letters “The beautiful Miss Snooks’
■ Lady Beertap’s two beautiful daughters.’’ Yet the
est glance at those photographs convinces you that
a Snooks is about as good-looking as the average
:hen-wench, while the two beautiful daughters of Lady
rtap have faces like the backs of cabs.
J*
Tie English army and navy are in a bad way,
English churches serve pap to listless women
1 children; the House of Commons is a dull
emblage of mediocrities ; —and the poets !
fhen England was at her highest, when the best in her
i having full play, she produced poets. Eight down
3 the Victorian Era she went on producing them,
in she took to the Slock Exchange, and an ostentatious
of life, and the supply of poets fell off. If we except
Swinburne, who does not belong rightfully to this
sent time, t here is not a poet of any parts exercising
function in England to-day. Furthermore, any book-
er will tell you that the demand for poetry-books by
v writers has practically ceased to exist.
J* J*
Kipling ?
le is still young, and, happily, among the living ; but
cannot be denied that as poet he has outlived his
utation. . . . The bulk of his metrical work is just
>ut as dead and forgotten as the coster-songs of
iter-year. He has not even made a wit; nobody
3tes him, nobody believes in him as a poetical master,
sody wants to hear any more of him. His imitators
ve all gone back to the imitation of better men. If a
>y of verses have a flavour of Kipling about it nowadays,
tors drop it as they would drop a hot ooal. So much
the poet of empire, the poet of the people, the
trical patron of Thomas Atkins, Esq.
Another poet of empire—Mr. W. E. Henley—has fared
i-v little better. “ What can I do for England?” is, I
lieve, still in request among the makers of a certain
,ss of anthology ; but English poetry in the bulk is just
e same as if Mr, Henley had never been. Even the
lderdash about “ m.v indomitable soul ” has fallen out
the itsm loquendi of the young men’s .Christian
sociations and the young men's debating societies.
The Song of the Sword” is sung no longer, “For
igland’s . Sake ” has gone the way of ail truculent war--
ietry, and out of “ Hawthorn arid Lavender ” perhaps a
uple of lyrics remain. Mr. Henley attacked Burns
when Burns had been a century dead. Who will con-
sider it worth while to attack Mr. Henley in, say, the
year 2002. . ,
Possibly the real, true English poet who will in due
course put on the laurel of Mr. Austin, is Mr. Stephen
Phillips. Yet Mr. Stephen Phillips is a purveyor of
metrical notions for the stage, and in his last Ifreat work,
“Ulysses,” I find'him writing- . . . exactly the kmd of
poetry one requires for the cavertt scene of a Mew Year s
pantomime. ...a.’
Possiuiy, again, the real, true English poet is Mr.
William Watson, with his tiresome miimcry of Words-
worth and his high-and-dry style of lyrical architecture.
Mr. Watson is believed to have done great things, but
his rdle now appears to be one of austere silence , he is
what the old writers would have termed a costive poet.
And if his “ Collected Poems ” are to be the end of him,
his end will not be long deferred. Or possibly the one
and only poet our England of to-day would wish to boast
is Mr. Arthur Symons. Mr. Symons writes just the kind
of poetry one might expect of a versifier who in early
youth had loved a cigarette-smoking ballet-girl, and
could never bring himself to repress his passion. . . . Mo
doubt, if the English continue to descend-the moral
Avernus at their present' rate of speed, Mr. Symons will
become, by sheer process of time,-the representative poet
of the nation. ■ „ . ....
For the rest, they aft mean well, and they all aim high ,
but one is afraid that nothing will come of them. There
are Francis Thompson, and Laurence Housman, and
Henry Newbolt, and Laurence Binyon, and F. B. Money-
Coutts, and Arthur Christopher Benson, and \ ictor
Plarr —amiable performers all, but each a standing ex-
ample of poetical shortcoming. Perhaps one ought not-*
to mention Mr. John Davidson and Mr. W. B. Yeats,
because Mr. Davidson is a Scot, and Mr. Yeats, putatively
at least, an Irishman. In some respects these twain
may he considered the pick of the basket, lam con-
strained to admit, however, that neither of them has as
yet fulfilled his earlier promise.
As to fiction —
The high priest and the high priestess who serve to the
right and left of the altar of six-shillingism are as every
one knows, Mr. Hall Caine and Miss Marie Corelli. Each
of them wears a golden ephod, with a breastplate of
jewels arranged to spell out the magic figures One
Hundred Thousand. All the other priests of the Taber-
nacle lobk with awe and envy upon these two, because
the other priests’ breastplates have hard work to spell
out fifty thousand, and some of them do not even achieve
one thousand five hundred. Burnt offerings of Caine and
Corelli therefore fill the place with savour. A pair of
sorrier writers never was on sea or land. Everybody
knows it, nobody denies it, and nobody seems sad
about it.
A chapter on “ Suburbanism ” is good and true,
though of course not the whole truth ; the
Englishman’s drink, food, law and order,
education, and recreation are satirised with
vigour i aud we have an anecdote of the recent
visit of’the King of Portugal. On being asked
what had impressed him most in England he
replied at once, “The roast beef.” “Nothing
else, sir?” enquired his interlocutor. “Yes,”
said the monarch, “ the boiled beef. Even the
Englishman
feels in his hones that something has gone wrong with
him. It may be a slight matter and not heyOnd repair
but there it is. He cannot put his hand on his heart and
say “ I am the fine, substantial, sturdy, truth-speaking,
incorruptible, magnanimous, genial Englishman of half a
century ago'” The flv has crept into the ointment of
his virtue, and the fragrance of it no longer remains.
His attitude at the present moment is the attitude of the
anxious man who perceives that life is a little too much
for him, and keeps on saying, We shall have to buck
up!”
Then .. . the appeal ; .to “ the Colonies
Recognising his need of props and stays and abdominal
belts as it were, the Beloved [Englishman] has latterly
taken to remembering the Colonies. He is now of
opinion that he and his sturdy‘children over-seas should
be “ knit together in bonds of closer unity,” “ to present
an unbroken front to the world,” “ should share the
burdens and glories of Empire,” and so on and so forth.
*Phe Colonies —good bodies ! —saw it all at once. They
had been accustomed to be snubbed and neglected and
left out of count, and they had forgotten to whom they
belonged In his hour of need the Beloved cried, “ ’Elp !
I said I didn’t want you, but I do—l do!” and the
Colonies sent to his aid, at a dollar a day per head, the
prettiest lot of freebooters and undesirable characters
they found themselves able to muster. Later, they sent
several landau loads of premiers and politicians, who
were fed and flattered to their hearts’ content, and went
home no doubt greatly impressed with the English roast
and boiled beef. These gentlemen made speeches in
return for their dinners ; they were- allowed to visit the
Colonial Office and kiss the band of Mr. Chamberlain ,
they saw Peter Robinson s and the tuppenny tube : and
the bonds of Empire have been knit closer ever since.
Not to put too fine a point upon it, the Englishman’s
I attempt to buttress himself up out of the Colonies has
proved a ghastly failure. The scheme fell flat, The
English may want the Colonies, but the Colonies do not
want the English—at any rate on bonds of unity lines.
The banner of Imperialism w hich has waved so gloriously
durino- the past lustrum will have to be furled aqd put
away."’ The great Imperial idea declines to work ; it has
been brought on the political stage half a century too
late. At best it was a fetch, and it has failed, The All-
Beloved will have to find some other way out.
And that, at all events, is one judgment that
Australia pan endorse.
The agile contributor —
E.P. Scottish faith in Bobbie Burns prows more extra-
vagant every year. A letter from the poet to his pub-
lisher (date 1793) enclosing MS. of seventeen epigrams
and one song—“ My Chloris, Mark how Green the Groves”
—brought £250 at an Edinburgh auction sale, and
Bobbie’s copy of a vplume of Laurence Sterne's works,
with marginal, notes in his (R.B’s) own hand, went for
£3O. , ’ ..
S.T.S. : Tennyson provides a parallel to those Bulletin
verses (ifA/3) about the husband who fought a prize-
fight “ for Dolly and the Kid ”
Thy face across his fancy comes
And gives the battle to his hands :
A moment, while the trumpets blow,
He sees his brood'about thy knee;
The next. Wee fire he meets the foe,
And strikes him dead for thine 'tfid thee !
A French soldier told Henry Kingsley in 1870 that he
could stand any Prussians except the Uhlans ; they were
mostly veterans with families, and were so keen on
getting home again safe that when they came to close
grips they fought like devils.
Wife and weans have been always a fine stimulus
to combat. Fitzsimmons tells how, during his
fight with Corbett (and his wife at the ring-side),
‘‘ I said to myself then and there, ‘lt shall never
be the lot of that woman to be the wife of a
defeated husband.’” But indeed the motive is
pre-historic. The cave-man doubtless fought for
the cave-wife and (probably) the cave-progeny;
and there are traces of the conflict all the way
down the ages. Is the motive pre-anthropic ?
the bull that fights for the heifer: does he fight
also for the calf ? Or is it not the case that Mrs.
Lion defends the cubs, and Mr. defends Mrs., or
his possession of Mrs. ? Don’t remember noting
a case of animal fatherhood (purely) inspiring to
combat.
The dubious correspondent—
A.B.T. : Too vague and woolly.. ..Uloola : Sladen is a
back number G.H.W. : Sermon after reading P. G.
Hamerton ? anyway, a dull sermon.... J.M. : Somebody
blundered. The fine old purple hippocras was a rich,
spiced wine—the wine of Hippocrates—a nourishing,
inspiring drink which the ancients loved before whisky
was invented —not a place-name or a man’s name—of
course not.
& J*
Memorandum—
Hubert Church’s just-published book of verses, The
West Wind (No. V of The Bulletin Booklets) was an-
nounced for publication some time ago; but issue has
been delayed by various misadventures. The price is
2s. 6 d.; and two hundred and fifty copies only are printed
for sale. The Bulletin Booklets include work by Boderic
Quinn, Louise Mack, James Hebblethwaite, and Hubert
Church ; and the verses of “ Danton ” will shortly be
added to the series. Some of the sweetest lyrics written
in Australasia are to be found in these dainty booklets,
which now represent quite a substantial poetical perform-
ance.
Flotsam—
The more this Christianity changes, the more it is tie
same thing. The apostie Paul, in a time of doubt, a day
of tribulation, did not rely upon God : he appealed to
Caesar. And when N.S.W. churches, in time of droughti
seek a day of humiliation, do they appeal to God? No ;
always to See, sir!
Not when I saw the low, sandy shore and the familiar
straggle of the trees, nor when the harbour disclosed
known headland after headland, bay after well-remem-
bered bay, nor when lit eyes welcomed me upon the
wharf and the faces of the houses took friendly shape,
but when I walked from the ferry-boat at Milson’s Point,
and the charity-harmonium broke into its old monotonous
chant, its worn and dolorous wailing, then first and at
last I knew I was at Home !•
It must have been in the distraction of composing
the following that Le Courrier Australian was last
week mistitled Le Courrier Franyais
Madonna, let me softly tell you this
Close in your ear, that 1 may gain a kiss
Coming and going—like the loitering bee
Our flowery poets use in simile —
Making the tale excuse for greater bliss.
Let me. . . (O, sweet aposiopesis 1) . . .
Tell all you are t > me. (That was a miss :
You moved your head.) But listen ! (And count three,
Madonna.)
Ah, no! . . . (In case the other jealous is) ... -
You dwell so high: speech falls in the abyss
(Ears are but suburbs . . . pleasant, we agree)
Look in my eyes . . . (Quick I—past1—past thirteen) • • • an
'see! ~
Give me your lips, my heart’s metropolis,
Madonna!
A.e.s.
SAINT PATRICK.
s~y AINT PATRICK was a gentleman, * -
V And came of decent people ;. % ■
He built a church in Dublin town,
And on it put a steeple;
His father was a Hoolagan,
His sister an O'Ghrddy.
His mother was a Mulligan,
And his 'wife the Widow Brady.
THE'CHGBUS:
Success attend St. Patrick' s' fist,
He was a saint so clever ;
He gave the'snakes and, toads a twist,
And bothered them for ever!
•«,
The Wicklow hills'are very high;
And so ’s the hill of Howth. sir ;
But there 1 s a hill that's higher still, , *
And bigger than them both, sir.
’Twas from the top of that same hill
Saint Patrick preached the sarmint
That drove the frogs into tlidbogs, •' ... * "g
And banished all the vgrirrint !
Nine hundred, thousand vipers Hue,
He charmed with his sweet discourses,
And sarved them up-ai KUUtloo
In soups and second courses.
The blind icodriis crawling on the graiS
Disgusted, all the nation, '<
Tilt he opened their eyes and their hearts likewise
To a sense of their situation !
There's not a, mile, through Ireland's isle,
Where the dirty creatures musters,
But there he put his dear fore foot
And murdered them in clusters.
The toads went pop, the frogs went stop,
Slap dash into the water,
And the snakes committed suicide
To save themselves from slaughter }
No wonder that the Irish boys
Are all so brave and frisky,
For sure Saint Pat he taught them that,
And the way of making whisky.
No wonder that the Saint himself
Was handy at distilling,
For his mother kept a shebeen-house ,
In the town of Enniskillen.
Author unknown.
j ] KA So you 're back / ” cried Edward Rex,
/ i “And what 's the end pf all your capers ?
And did you wash the crimsoned decks
As it s reported in the papers ?
Is't true yotl freed the Kaffir slaves
While happy Hebrews danced and shouted ?
Are al} the camp-slain children's graved
jErfiner since olive-branches sprouted ?
scarred De Wet protest he loves
The most notorious hands-uppers ? 0
JfrMn stricken homes do turtle-doves
Fly to Eckstein’s Passover suppers ?
Is't Peace you bring ?—or biiter Jiate ?
\Hout do you cipher out the war sum ?■'
■ —& . csv rrtfr s <S2S7
rf'Xlas ! " soul Joe, “ I find too fate
n. . »MB s OBn • Oe”
Nulla vestigia ritrorsum!


wool
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
'Send your__^
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., ud.
SYDKTEY,
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick Returns.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Commission. 3 Per Cent, to tlie Grower
on Large and Small Accounts Alike.
S. FREEMAN t SONS L!«™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES!
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNTARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
The “Enterprise”
Rubber Massage Roller
Makes, Keeps
and Restores
Beauty in. Na-
ture'sown way.
The cup-shaped teeth have a
suction effect on the skin that
smooths out wrinkles, rounds out
the beauty muscles, and gives per-
fect circulation of the blood.
It is so constructed that it treats
every portion of the face and neck
perfectly, even to the “ crow’s
feet ” in the corners of the eyes.
Price of Roller - • - -
(with FREE Sample
Jar of “SKIN --
FOOD")
4/6
Post
Free.
Box 133, G.P.O.
THE ENTERPRISE CO ,
a
When ordering please mention this paper.
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN,
Cj> v
5806
CBB
5807
58oa
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId any of our Colabratcd CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bara a
New One will bo Exchanged for it on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe.
N
ii
n
RICHMOND
VA
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured tile Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
“SOLID SHOT” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in'great demand.
Save 11 Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, -free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
Sole Agent for C. 8.8. Briar Pipes.
Send for Whole sale Price Lists.
“Arkansas” Mixture
A Blend of the very highest grade Tobaccos.
Packed in lib. Tins, 7s. 6d. lb.
Sample lib. Tins, 25., post free.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
THAT’S IT AGAIN!
TORTURING, GRINDING, RASPING, AGGRAVATING PAIN ! Let it come in the guise of LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
MUSCULAR, INFLAMMATORY, “ Come and Go” ; in the joints, in the chest, in the back ; anywhere. It comes
all from the same general cause, and can be cured by the same methods of treatment. ELECTRICITY properly
applied IS A CERTAIN and SURE CURE for this dreaded devastator of the human body and mind. ELECTRICITY
CURES RHEUMATISM because it can be directed to and directly through the ailing part. IT STRENGTHENS AND
CORRECTS THE ACTIONS of the ORGANS that are responsible for the supply of poison in the blood, warms and
invigorates the afflicted part, first relieves the pain, and then entirely eradicates the trouble from the flesh THE ONLY
SURE AND PERMANENT METHOD is in using the same remedy that has cured thousands, and is CURING IHOU-
SANDS EVERY DAY.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
is simple but grand. There is nothing so penetrating, nothing so invigorating, nothing that will relieve weakness and pain
as sSilv and so surely. It assists Nature by a general reinforcement of the vital energy by infusing a mild, invigorating
as speecmy ana s y supplying the system with the very essence of Nerve Vigor and Nerve Strength.
“ ELECTRICITY IS LIFE." It i. the strength, the vigor
and in fact the very life in the body, and Dr. McLaughlin's success in making use of its hfe-giving power proves its merit
With hi, Electric Belt he lias cured thousands of weak men during the last live yeaw-men who had been troubled with all
sorts of*chrmiic ailments —men who had been able to get NO BENEFIT FROM DRUGS Many of these cases were pro-
nounced^incurable by doctors who had failed to cure them. But they have been cured, and they stand ready to testify to it.
TWENTY YEARS IN AGONY.
Your Belt is worth its weight in gold. For years I have suffered a
living death from Sciatica, but a few short months of your electric
treatment cured me, and put me right again. It gives me pleasure to
recommend your Belt to both my friends and strangers.
Yours gratefully, .
WM. OGLESBY, Kegworth-st., Leichhardt.
A GRATEFUL MAN.
Angel Terrace, Coolgardie, W.A.
Dear Sirs —I got your Belt after all the doctors here had given me
up. I had Sciatica so bad that I could neither work no walk. In a
week I had no pain, and began to mend ; in a month I was out prospect-
ing again, and I would like to meet a man more grateful to you than I
am. I don’t think I ever will. KELLY.
GENERAL DEBILITY.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. Whakapara, Auckland, N.Z.
Dear Sirs,—l am glad that I bought the Belt, for it has done me a
Tteel’heffer in health than I have done for years since I have been using
J “B.T.nd XnV flodU,.. I to your Oommn, tor «>. Belt.
Yours very truly.
LACKED NERVE FORCE.
To Dr. McLaughlin Co. Adavale, Queensland, 31/l/’O3.
Dear Sirs,— According to promise I send you a report of the Electric
Belt I got from you. I beg to say it has done me a lot of good. I have
the full use of my arms now, and I can thoroughly recommend the Belt
to anyone suffering from loss of nerve-power. In fact I should never
have believed the benefit derived from your Belt if I had not tried it.
Wishing you and your Belt eVery success.
I remain, dear sirs, truly yours.
Write for Free Book.
For the benefit of all persons interested in this Grand Remedy, we
■Rpnntifiillv Illustrated Book, giving cuts, and showing how we apply LLBC-
"^^^'Lmg'yQuß^oilfEYl^you^PAY'FOß'^DVlCEf'when^eatand^neady^toplveto'll Uie
CHARGES WHATEVER. Yo f 4 W AS^J c^ U Ve O HAVE CONFIDENCE IN OUR OPINIONS and deem tins the only
Our Chief-of-Staff is the only Registered Specialist Aus-
tralasia who devotes his entire time to Electricity, ONLY.
w/t/JbF
m
<TS
II
i
r%
in
IT WILL CURE YOU.
llovv can anyone remain in doubt as to the value of this
grand remedy when you see so many cures by it? Do you
still doubt it? Would you believe your neighbor if he
told you it had cured him ? Would you believe the evidence
of respectable people in your own town ? Then see our
testimonials. They come from every where—from all classes
of people—and prove our claims over and over.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
85 King-st., Sydney.
MELBOURNE OFFICES 167 E SWANSTON STREET.


SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renowned
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St„
SYDNEY.
m
■A
§
-m
ri
'VS
PATENT
DOUBLE
THE LIFE
OF YOUR *
CORSET
Okns
QKUs
(ovnswj)
(sxstjSfiuv
“Prevention is better than Cure”
and the Oktis Corset Shields, put into a new Corset, prevent split seams
and broken bones, and more especially that ugly ridge that so soon
appears, and spoils the appearance of the best fitting gown.
It does not Increase the Size of the Waist
Ask for the
On
OKTIS, and see that you are not put off with Imitations,
each one appears the name “P. & S.—OKTIS—P. & S.”
AH Reeds Alike to
a* Oldsmabile
The enduring and reliable qualities of the Oldsmobile were recently
proven in a long distance run held in America between New York
and Boston— 500 miles.
It was the only machine in the 1,000 pounds class that made the
run without a penalized stop, winning the highest award.
It is made to run and does it. The motor is of simplest construc-
tion, the result of 17 years’ experience in building of Gas Engines
and Automobiles. Starts at will from seat and is always under
instant control of the operator.
Sells in America for $650.00
(135) and the freight here
is not large. The cheapest
reliable automobile made.
Write for free catalogue,
illustrated.
A gents :
W. A. RYAN & CO„ LTD., Auckland.
y/.
Olds Motor Works,
Detroit, Mich .
U.S.A.
fa
“v.
- s i
General Electric
Incandescent Lamps.
E
E
©
©
@
@
Absolutely
THE BEST!
V
cl
I
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750
were purchased by the Melb.
City Council.
LONS LIFE. HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
CERERIL ELECTRIC CO.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Melbourne and Sydney.
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, etc.,
also in Stock.
% ?
a
m
i
There’s SECURITY in
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION
CONSTIPATION.
D'ZZINESS
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IV E R
Site*?
a
St*
•-
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
k-
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
Th.e Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Pennv
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tatter sail’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each 5s
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every .£l, and so on.
NOW OPEN
DONCASTER HANDICAP—
Randwick, N.S.W., April 11 25,000 at 5 1
SYDNEY CUP-
Kandwick, N.S.W., April 13 25,000 at 51
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMJi, Commercial 1 ‘4 M k ot fasniania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise G EOKGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DLLI\ 00. doing busmen with Tiisuuuhu,


“We are old friends, this bottle and
I. We have known each other for over
sixty years. When a boy I was always
taking cold, but a few doses of this
medicine would at once set me right.
“ When a young man I had a weak
throat and weak lungs. My friends
feared some lung trouble, but
Cherry Pectoral
greatly strengthened my throat, cleared
up my voice, and took away the ten-
dency for every cold to go to my lungs.
“ Last year I had a bad attack of la
grippe. The only medicine I took was
from this bottle, and I came out all
right. I know it’s good, too, for
asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia,croup.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country Orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Ilairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
VJT AWAY
THIS MONTH
...t0...
Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
Write To-Day.
Send
Postal Note.
3 Black Tips with Ospreys. A Marvel of Cheapness.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention Tub Bulletin.
2/6
The Bunch
Post Free.
THE No. O . .
FOLDING
POCKET KODAK
&
PUT
IT
IN
YOUR
"WAISTCOAT
POCKET.
PRICE 31- ONLY.
Full Particulars of all Dealers or of
KODAK Ltd.,
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER.
SEND US
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
F you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tmceu
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, a
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10 to.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
SHIRTS.
For station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
MaTTAlassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free bp post Ihromjhont
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
6. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
Australian Mutual Provident Society
~ rAIiUS " KD IS4O. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle. *
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Becurl!y of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
and . °* p « (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentu.es, Inscribed Stock or Treasu, y B 111 of any of the Australian States or New ZeS
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilego of repaying up to *>o per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f*ne. J F F
Directors— Thomas LirruEJoiiN, Esq.,Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Mekks, M.L.c’, Deputy-Chairman • Benjvmim Short
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. : F. E. WT.nchcombf Esu Mp’
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., FF A FSS ’ ‘l-*
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 lOs.
H. Hilb'er,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY,
tf®* Send for a
Catalogue.
Wont Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTA NT NOTICE to
buyers ol Eight Vehicles.
The Bent and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £Blo*.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
_ _ _ _ _ 2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KINGjyARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
ssfc-'sr
Noiseless Uudenvater . »
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 267 t.
WITH THE KING ENGINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
MCDERMOTT & COMFAKTY,
30 PITT STREET, SYDJNTEY.
C
Hotelkeepers, make your own
DERATED WATERS
THE “AUSTRAL” DERATED WATER MACHINE occupies
only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTTLES
per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Sodawater
&c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PER DOZEN. These machines
are now working in all the Australian States, New Zealand and
South Africa.
Write -for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY AND SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WINCHESTER
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
“New Rival" and “Repeater"
——— -r- , rnfiiiri'ii~<‘irmiiiiri»ii>Yr»iir»>w>»irri- - -
F you are looking for reliable shotgun am-
munition, the kind that shoots when you
pull the trigger and where you point your
gun, buy Winchester Cartridges: “New Rival,”
loaded with Black powder; and “Repeater”
loaded with Smokeless. * Insist upon having
Winchester Cartridges, and accept no others.
ALL DEALERS KEEP THEM.
wb stocks WINCH ESTEP GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd
ELIZABETH STREET, fIELBOURNE.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks -Frea.
PLAYS
French’s Acting Ed.tion.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books tu r » Married
l£xtra Special Catalogue o /
Books Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
mv nod mvn croo-o
4; ipPil
*T»
\L
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has oained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to 'he Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3“., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
m- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
SS- For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
*53
c/?
- ■*
.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydfe/.
All CiiEMibTS.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold bv all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MAC KAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane; Mr. GORBON, 92 George
001 * Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Coilins-street, MELBOURNE
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Beginning.
Tn the beginning, God made things
Perfect in harmony, apt and fit.
Next came the Devil, on subtle wings,
Scoffed at the scheme, and then tangled it.
So our theology says, and I,
Skipping the difficult spots, agree , , ,
Surely the Devil’s success went nigh
To the prodigious, if God made me 1
God took an exquisite soul, some clay
Fit for work of the finest kind ;
God put a heart that was blithe and gay
Under control of an excellent mind.
Down in his woikshop Satan had got*
All the mean qualities on a shelf:
He mixed ’em up, and poured all the lot
Into God’s man . . . I’m not proud of myself !
T,
F.M.
In the Grey.
I’m out of love with Love, and all
My soul that sang, decays in curses.
There is no worse thing can befall:
I’m out of love with love, and all
Things else scarce count. Unmusical,
Bitter and barren now my verse is.
I m out of love—with Love and all!
My soul that sang, decays in curses.
TAB.
FRANK MORTON.
A Garden.
’Twas a garden of deep shade,
With many a quiet nook,
Where the summer breeze oft strayid
And the wild acacia shook.
There was always a wind In the trees
That shaded the garden sweet,
Ai d sheltered the frail heartsease
From the summer’s tyrant hi at.
It fanned all the drooping flowers
With a subtle fiagrance rare
It had caught from the dewy showers,
And breathed on the sun-dried air.
When a wild-eyed, wondering child,
Often I’d careless stepped
Where the n ignonette ran wild
And the honeysuckle crept;
Where the heavy*headed flowers,
Slow i olding above my head,
Dreamed a. d slept through the hours
In the brilliant poppy-bed.
On the outskirt used to stand
Where the blooms were sparse and few,
A straight-thewed gum-tree band,
With the sea-wind murmuring through.
Dear garden ! where the bright,
Long days of Liberty,
Gilded with Love’s delight,
Wove round my love and me.
The trees are gone from the rise
By the side of the quiet sea;
Vanished the dear, dark eyes,
And my garden of memory.
SPIX.
The Dreamer.
The white-robed angels once a spirit led
Before the Lord of all men quick and dead.
“ W 1 you done with Life ?” he asked the
SouL
“Master, I have done naught,” the Spirit said.
“ I dreamt of Perfect Love, of Life pure, true,
And strove in Song to give my dreams anew
To men who had forgot Gain is not all:
They passed me by, some listened, they were few.
“At last I woke, too late, my life had flown.
Father, have mercy ! I my deep sin own.”
Then answer came, “What men call Life is
dream—
Your dreams of Perfect Love are Life alone.”
N.S.W.
W. M. MAILLER.
Success.
Oh, long and dark the stairs I trod
With trembling feet to find my God,
Gaining a foothold bit by bit,
Then slipping back and losing it;
Never progressing, striving still
With weakening grasp and fainting will,
Bleeding to climb to my God, while he
Serenely smiled, unnoting me.
Then came a darker time when I
Loosened my hold and fell thereby.
Down to the lowest steps my fall,
As if I had not climbed at all;
And while I lay despairing there
I heard a footfall on the stair,
In the same path where I, dismayed,
Faltered and fell and lay afraid ;
And lo ! when Hope had ceased to be
My God came down the stairs to me.
N.s.vv.
MAGGIE SULLIVAN.


A Quiet
Nip
Four Crdwh
Whisky
i
m
\ !
Month After Month.
Year After Year.
131? JD-A.l?
WE PUBLISH EVIDENCE LIKE THIS.
The Case of Mr. A. LYES.
(FOR THE “STANDARD.”)
The requirements of the Australian popu-
lace can only be arrived at by reference to
the statistics which are compiled at various
periods, and as evidence is necessary for the
purpose of gauging popular opinion, it may
here be interesting to listen to Mr. Albert
Lyes, of No. 7 Frazer-street, Leichhardt
“ When living in the North Coast dis-
trict,” said Mr. Lyes, “ I experienced a
vast amount of trouble with my liver and
kidneys, the consequence being that I was
put to a lot of inconvenience owing to the
acute pains across the small of my back.
As I had heavy work to do at the time, my
afflictions came as a great hardship, mere so
if there was any lifting to bs done, when my
back plains were intensified to a degree that
I could scarcely endure.”
Reporter: “ Were you much affected in
any other part ? ”
Mr. Lyes : “ It would be quicker for me
to tell you where I was not affected, for I
had aches and pains all over me. There
was a cold, painful sensation in the spine
which felt as if somebody had shot a ball of
ice along my back, and that horrible shoot-
ing pain extended right to my eyes, which
also gave me the impression of being
swollen, I was sluggish, drowsy, and had
no energy whatever, the only thing I felt
fit for being to lie down—it did not matter
where. slt is a serious matter for a married
man to get into that condition, but I held
out as long as I could, and then I had
to give in, for all the grit was taken out
o(,me. Being without any appetite, which
had been on the wane for a long time, the
chances of stopping a further leakage of my
vitality were very remote, and as I could not
sleep at all well at nights, there was no
doubt that I was in a very grave state. With
my tongue covered with a nasty substance
and a vile taste in my mouth, there is
uothing remarkable in the fact that I could
not enjoy any food, and in the natural
course of events I got a long way thinner
than I ought to have done. I was tor-
mented with very sevex-e headaches which
made me feel so gloomy and wretched that
there seemed to be nothing in the world
worth living for, and with my weakness
daily increasing, my limbs ached so persis-
tently that I could not even take a walk in
comfort. Palpitation of the heart and dizzi-
ness always followed any exertion, my
heart being particularly bad. It used to
make a thumping sound like the noise from
a horse’s hoof heard in the distance, and
many an anxious hour have I passed in
thinking what might be wrong with that
organ. Like most people who suffer like
this for the first tame, I consulted a
doctor, who said that my liver and kidneys
were diseased. He wrote a prescription,
which I had made up, and said I would
have to keep as quiet as possible, and not
exert myself any more than was absolutely
necessary.'
Reporter: “How did you feel after
taking his medicine ? ”
Mr. Lyes : *• Just about the same as
before, and when I saw it was only so much
waste to take any more I dropped it off.
The oppression in my chest and the flatu-
lence in my st omach were still there, and
the urine l-emained of a cloudy and scanty
nature, so what was the use of throwing
any more money away I thought? Besides,
my nervous system was completely out of
order, as any kind of noise had a startling
effect which kept my nerves at extreme
tension, as if they had been suddenly un-
hinged, and then, again, I felt agitated and
irritable at the slightest provocation. The
long-continuance of these sufferings had
made me very morose and low-spirited, for
there were others to think of besides my-
self; but, thank goodness! that trying
ordeal is all over now, and it is not likely
to be repeated, because I discovered a
remedy which cured my ailments then, and
I am sure it could do so again if ever I
needed it.”
Reporter: “ May I learn what the remedy
was ? ”
Mr. Lyes : “ I have no desire to keep the
matter secret, because I might do other
poor sufferers a good turn l«y letting you
know. It was Clements Tonic—a medicine
that I had been reading about—that made
a new man of me, and I always regard it as
my only friend amongst all medicines. I
had only taken a couple of bottles of
Clements Tonic when I felt ever so much
better. In fact, the change was so great
that I could scarcely believe it myself,
especially as I had lost confidence in
physics generally. But Clements Tonic
asserted itself as something uncommonly
good by rapidly giving me a desire for food,
and in the matter of making me sleep well
I thought it a most marvellous medicine.
The health-giving properties of Clements
Tonic were not confined to those improve-
ments, as it amended the defects in my
internal organs which had gone against the
digestion of my food, and by those means
the pains in my chest and shoulders were
relieved. The fermentation of my food
was done away with in like manner, so that
I was getting the full benefit of my meals,
and how well I knew it! for the return of
my strength was quite noticeable. I no
longer desired to lie about in a state of
careless languor, for Clements Tonic gave
me the energy and ambition to do some
work, which was becoming easier to per-
form each day, because the pains in my
back were less troublesome as time moved
on. My heart gave me no occasion to
worry myself, as it was beating with a
regular pulsation, and with the departure
of my headaches my sight became so clear
that I could sit down and read for hours
without the least inconvenience. & I was
greatly pleased with Clements Tonic for
the effect it had on my nervous system,
for it invigorated my nerves so thoroughly
that they became perfectly steady, while
su_h a thing as becoming excited or annoyed
over trifling incidents did not happen. A
good indication to go by as to the efficacy of
Clements lonic was the entire removal of
my deranged kidney symptoms, and it was
then that I was altogether free from pain.”
Reporter: “Did you stop taking your
medicine immediately that happened ? ”
Mr. Lyes : “ Not exactly, for I wanted
to be quite sure that all disease was effaced,
so I took another couple of bottles of
Clements. lonic, and when they were
finished it was not necessary to take any
moie, as I was as strong and thoroughly
lestored as I could wish to be. It is several
years ago since Clements Tonic put an end
to my sufferings, yet my work has never
since interfered with my health—a fact
which shows that Clements Tonic made me
as sound as a bell; and if these statements
are likely to be perused by others, you may
publish them as you like."
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
SvHnM. tBSRT Ks > of 7 Fraz er street, Leichhardt,
In , * he State of N«w South Wales,
V 1 i° f Australia - do solemnly and
rear! VL deula, '« that I have carefully
fl ' u d . f. he annexed document, consisting ol
aild consecutively numbered from
’ ? t !? at u . c °ntains and is a true and
T 0f I'-'-f 'Aliens and cure by Clements
C ’i„ ? 30 oontams my full permission to pub-
lish in any way my statements—which I civs
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and
w‘the t^m 80 f el ! ,M ? eclaratio " conscientiously believ-
lug the same to be true, and by virtue of the pro-
visions of the Oaths Act, 1900, V
Subscribed and declared at Leichhardt, this
fifteenth day of Maroh, oue thousand nine hundred
aud two, before me,
H. R. STEWARD, J.P.
Price 6s.
Poet Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“Steele Rudd.”
FO Ft THE BUBH W ORKE R
- cnnTHINC BALM and EMBROCATION Will be found
A CUKE for Burns, Bods >p ßarcoo,
Eczema, |P ra, Affections, etc.
SaH Che" ists 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
he sent, vou. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 street ’ SYDNEY '
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
mM
r «> *</
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF (or
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10h3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and cap with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets anil
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
t£T BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. ~m&
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DON’T MTSS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
CERTAIN. Address— .
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Eiizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government
4 November Bth, igoi, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions no
hypodermic injections. Pull particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M.R.c.s.. En *..
129 Collins-3t., Melbourne.
Rescued
From Drink
cin ery « odorl f s^ nd tasteless, which any lady
and surely that wt® t°vf f^ od ' , Itdoea it» work so silently
fooks on thedr,^ 1 de Y°. ted wife, sister or daughter
iooks on, the drunkard is reclaimed, even asrainst his will
and address 1 to THE EIIPH o lw'?S? rati<)n Send nanie
SYDNEY N i^ , i CRASy , °°- 62 HUNTER ST.,
particulSe ‘ and they WIU Send >’ ou booklet and
RUPTURE
>i
throw away
your Truaa,
CURED without
, operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
1 SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
129 COLLINS STREET
M ELBOURNE.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under coven
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SO Mi AOKN'I'S.
I
■S
i'll Try It."
The Kesutt.
CRAIG &. AfTKEN, N.s.w.
llous«, 680-642 GEORGE STREET
BarUer’g Supply
, SYDNEY.
Refreshing and Agreeable.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TOILET SOAP.
A pleasant Antiseptic Soap (containing 10%
pure Carbolic Acid). Should be used regularly
to improve the skin and complexion and prevent
infection.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
<c
* y es
4#
TOOTH-ACHE
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head acließ&all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.’ I —Prof. W. Wii.son, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Bilieusness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac
Of all Stores.
Rupture
Free Cure.
Youderful Home Treatment That Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. S. Bice (Dept. 268), 8 & 9, Stonecutter
Street, London, E.C., has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, danger, operation, or
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. To
avoid all questions of doubt, he sends free to every
$
ME. JOHN WESLEY.
sufferer a free trial of his method, and there can be
no earthly reason why anyone, rich or poor, should
not avail themselves of this generous offer. As an
nstance of this remarkable method, the cure of
Mr. John Wesley, Castle Lachlan, Inverary, Argyle,
s a welcome intelligence. Mr. Wesley is a well
and highly respected gentleman, 72 years
>f age. After a short use of the Eice method the
upture healed entirely. To-day he's sound as
t bell. If you know anyone ruptured you should
ell them of this wonderful method, which Will
■e sent for trial free of all costs.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every p
of our
ELECTRIC
PELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotria
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If 'it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and l’rice List (post free), (dying
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
G 3 Elizabeth Sxkeex, SYDNEY.
All CHEMIST'S
<n
pROF FINSEHS
#
A %
FOR
Anemia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
AT 3/6 PER BOX


TTTE SPECIALISE in but one direction, ie the
VV EQUIPMENT OF OFFICES’
on an UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM,
No Business can
succeed without
method.
This METHOD
we supply.
WABASH
EXPANSION
Business
Systems.
Letter Flies.
Document Filea
Card Index
Systems
For all
Businesses.
Write /or
Catalogue.
I'* j—'*.l ''. I—.L.'.. Li^.
' ' j
~ riiskZj'jj} ;
*•» .*§»•
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australasia.
CAN YOU DRAW
I a Mechanical Figure LiKe This?
If yon have a “knack” for it, cultivate it
We teach by correspondence
Mechanical Drawing,
Steam and Electrical
Engineering, Heating,
Ventilating, Plumbing.
Mechanical Draw-
ing is of special
value to Engineers
and Engineering
Students, Archi-
tects, Workers in
Wood and Metal
and Foremen of
■ Factories.
Write for infor-
mation add Cata-
logue “ B.”
American School op Correspondence at Armour
Institute of Technology. Sydney : Box 629, 0.p.0.
HYPNOTISM, Magnetic Healing, <k
m
p
Learn to Hypnotize I
Wonderful. Mysterious, Fas
cinating ! I teach you how
to become a Hypnotist so
that you can exert a strand
and magio Influence over
othirs. Celebrate i install 1
taneou* method, discovered
and taught only by me.
Fasily and quickly learned.
You can perform astonish-
ing feats and produce fun
by the hour. Surprise all
your friends and make your-
self famous. You can give
entertainments and make
money. Gratifies eve: y am-
bition, eompels others to
love and obey you, and
brings health, happiness
and success in life. Cures
diseases and bad habits.
Send two stamps for my big
FREE BOOK, which treats
on all the wonders, seerets,
and mysteries' of the art,
and shows you Just how to
beoome a Hypnotist.
ADDRESS—
Prof. R. H. Barraden, 89 Pitt Street, BYDNEY.
xxr.
II
yon
are
1 suffering from
1 exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
eakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. read,
•65 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
RACCSpS
“cESEmB^H
Charcoal
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
mpure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &c. It
hl* f 0 r U disease Serma, and,absorbing all impuri-
a in e stomach and bowels, gives a healthy tone
„ !r!,u h ® Ie aystera - Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
n er Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
iiotUef ° T.ntp£ H *RC O A L POWDER in
and BISCUITS in Tins
Having ho!? take) ; by all Chemists and Stores.
PreDarnilV>' : i 001 ? ,I ’^laints of the injury done by other
the Traded? 8 ’V I .®??®,!®? that eaoh Bottle or Tin bears
-Mark J.L.8., inmonogram, 'on the wrapper.
MEDICAL galvanism.
]\/[ESSRS. HALE AND SON’S FIRM has distinguished
SPi- in the development of ELECTRICAL
MFTHnn a c S a M ? D[ P AL AGENT. By an entirely NEW
ino- o they have succeeded in produc-
Fmo*n^ ECTRIC BODY BELT, which for COMFORT,
Slinpli ; Y and GENUINENESS is unquestionably far
anL ; o 0r t 0 Previous invention. Yet the whole appli
this -if 80 compact that it only weighs a few ounces. In
has <f e ° f saan,s > 3 something to get an article that
Monthly 6 B ° wer a P ar t from imagination.” —Medical
IMp BOVED ELECTRIC BELTS have con-
otheTman ,™" st OBSTINATE cases of NERVOUS and
OUR SDcm® after all other remedies have FAILED.
FOheS, A , L ELECTRIC BELT WITH SUSPENSOR
Priro r HAS NO EQUAL. Catalogue and
ce List gratis. CONSULTATION FREE.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvamsts,
44 CASTLEREACH-STREET, SYDNEY.
OF INTEREST to MEN
been cured of weakness and Pe-
be nlpoao'a . a s ’ m Pl e and inexpensive remedy, and will
do this « a s f nd meanB of cure to all sufferers. I
Whaipiro en t' re *. v out of gratitude, and make no charge
atever - Send addressed envelope to
Wr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
,Pitt street, Sydney.
£*«iS
Rupture
Dr. Pierce’s Electric Truss
is a Marvel. Nothing like
it. Best Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure for Rupture.
World renowned. 27 improvem'ts.
Jf ruptured, send a stamp, (any
Utr.ucTir- - »°rt), for new “Booklet No. 1.”
WcfJ. C tr E i TRUSS C - 206 FOSt Street> San
aacisco, U.S.A.; W. H. Soul & Co-, Agents, Stdnbt.
ardath tobacco
ST * T£ EXPRESS^CiCARETTES
No. 555 (VIRGINIA GRADE) IVI QO O
nY DARLING. ASTOPIA " 9
- * (BILLIARD ROOn SIZE).
QUO VADIS CIGARETTES
_ HIGH CLASS TURKISH TOBACCO.:
Obta abl« all leadii, Toba«ooiSts.
DTROBERTS’
Mmi ii ii mi
POOR MAN’S
FRIEND
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
iHw V rv 100l 00 years ’ world-wide use it has proved itself the best Hoa ■
uSSSSSTISKi
—l'“. fo? 8 5oteh' s es „i I l ; l ,; u, S'5::: lm f ■ nd
“ d (in e '«S)'i/i«:
Dr.ROBERTS’ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
4° in a box, 1/1 y 2 ; 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by-
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
G. L. ROBERTS, KD
W-
Born 1766. Died 1834. q
mm
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls. F
Vigor and Strength
for all who
desire It.
* OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbou-ne
since 1886, has so perfected hi* method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank f®rms. etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seek tlio Trutli, it costs KTothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
kmbracin#
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.’*
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chronics. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language a thou-
Sa u nd u' l " eSt, ° ns . tha , fc ° ocur t 0 fche nlinds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted tn
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
Tiik Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Eduoate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d. !
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d. I
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 0 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is (id posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Sons Book, over 300 latest sonos
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, is 3d "
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea po'sted
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted '
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Stppiio Is’
Every Man llis Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted. ’ ‘
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 paues
1600 lllns. Leather hound, my price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted. ‘ ’
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e i« fid
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Blgr Book
Catalogue-post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle*
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
USES
Insecticide
* -
Kills
»«-
ALL
itf;;
NSECTS
Gf
At lON
n
(As]<
USES
GOUT
PILLS.
for gout,
RHEUMATISM-
SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pilla are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GfIIMAULT'S INDIAN CIfiARFTTFS
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing-, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
the parex^sms ’ and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORIMAULT & Co,, Paris. Sold by all Chemists
NOTICE
To *ifferersfrom Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Faee, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy* 1
all Parasites of Head or Body. ,
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. fid.
N-B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health,
Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century'with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame
fn cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 36s Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Oueen St
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Faultling & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
OEAf
The New Patent
I SOUND DISCS
Completely ototmc Deafness
and Head Noises,'no matter of
how long standing. Arethesame
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisibre. Comfortable,
w o. n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
Safeguard
Your
Health
See
that your
Brandy
is
Bottled
in
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
V'»T?
JjITl
llTlil
m
2JSajf|
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Weals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
IV. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GEORGE MARE, Secretary.
Visitors to the Old Cotuxtry
*OVAL
BAILEYS
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUT// KENS//VG TON,
L.ONDON. S.IV.
THE NEW LOUNGE: ONE OF THE FINEST IN LONDON
self-coivfcaiived suites.
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
TH^
y
n
[fl
#
m
>5
SB
ran
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of 1 aril? and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
THE
‘PLUM’
r
THE
‘PLUM’
ri ENTL
vJ - like
I EMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring'
"like" a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind ot
. „ remiired to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6tL
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prick
(Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 'll*.
\ Single Razoi, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful Case, 30i.
ReoisterKd and sent- Post Free to ant part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEIM, 680 George-st., Sydney.
T he GANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Canz Direct Current Ari~Propell3r. 80LE AGENTS:
The flustral Qtis Engineering Co., [td., South (l)elb.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS.
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
PRICE, 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
To Smokers of High Class
WILLS’ 8
i 6
MIXTURE
(Registered.)
Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two grades—Medium and Full.
Price. Is. oer 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper,
Vot. 24.—N0. 1204.
SATURDAY, MARCH 14, 1903.
Prior do
AFTER THE SHOWER.
"He was the vietim of his environment. The bad time had not passed, but it was passing, not withstanding the defamatory articles which appeared in the papers. There was a better
outlook, and it would not be long before the Government would be able to get some money."-The OWE'SULLIVAN of Neweastle.
OWESULLIVAN: "MY WORD, ITS ASTONISHING THE RECUPERATIVE POVERS OF THIS COUNTRY. THIS LITTLE DROP OF RAIN HAS REVIVED MY
FAVORITE TREE ALREADY, AND I SHALL SOON BE ABLE TO GET ANOTHER CROP OFF IT!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the, Australians.”
Printed and Published by Witxtam Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Offiee of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
lgt NOVEMBER. 1909
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ~ t• 2
Half-yearly ... n
Quarterly
NOTICE
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Otftee Tivcnty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J '•
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the ” Correspondence” column all
buttons submitted, whether in the f
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable). Paragraphs, Letters, or Sewspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bid ice
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ics
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jtlaelt and, White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient,
merit and interest and adapted for direct ’reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
e any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Conies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
a fter the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Rout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johamnesbwrg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
K Cum*.— Brewer and Co., SI Wanking Road, Shanghai.
TTle'^zxHdfo/i.
SATURDAY, MARCH 14, 1903.
Attorney-General Wise, Whitewashes
The doleful process of whitewashing this
country’s fallen financial state still goes on.
Hardly a day passes now without the informa-
tion that some Australian politician has thrown
a new light on the subject, or invented a new
variation of the old light, or has made a new
and astounding calculation about the value
of “ our magnificent natural resources,” or
has broken out in a new curse against
everybody who disapproves of the loan
boom policy. They are very sad and un-
convincing strugglers against the inevit-
able, but still they do their best to put a
good face on a cheerless situation. The
latest, and one of the most hopeless efforts is
that of N.S.W. Attorney-General Wise, who
has been demonstrating in England that
New South Wales is, after all, not much
more heavily in debt, in proportion to popu-
lation, than is the United Kingdom, if the
value of the United Kingdom's railways is
included in the calculation. And if the process
of including things had been carried a little
further, and the value of Britain’s shipping,
and its private lands, and the cost price of
the Tower of London, and the value of the
property destroyed in the civil wars of King
Stephen’s time, had also been added to the
British debt, there is very little doubt that
B. R. Wise could have proved that Britain
owes a great deal more per inhabitant than
New South Wales does. The situation, as
B. R. Wise puts it, is somewhat as follows :
U. Kingdom. N. S. Wales.
Government debt . ■ £775,000,000 £81,000,000*
Railway companies .. 1,050,000,000 300,000
Municipal debts . • 350,000,000 3,000,000
Water companies .. 60,000,000 200,000
£2,235,000,000 £84,500,000
Population .. .. 42,000,000 1,405,000
Per head .. .. £53/4/- £6O
It looks a nice, convincing argument, and
but for the never-to-be-sufficiently-regretted
fact that Mr. Wise forgot to add on to the
British debt the cost price of the Tower of
London and the breakages done at the land-
ing of Julius Caesar it would have been
even more convincing.
And, after all, -the whole argument is
almost the poorest, thinnest little sophistry
ever invented. It is unworthy to be told by
a rational politician to a rational audience,
and when such arguments are laid before a
meeting of London financiers they can only
cause derision. A country that hasn’t a
better delusion to offer than that had
better buy a pick and take to honest labor.
The difference between the situation of
Britain and that of N.S.W. lies in the fact
that Britain owes itself £53 per inhabitant
while New South Wales owes somebody else
£6O per inhabitant—not reckoning private
foreign debts, which raise the figures to
far above that sum. Britain owns its
railways, while Australia’s railways are
really owned by Bull, the mortgagee. The
interest on the 2235 millions, which represent
Britain’s public and municipal debt and its
railway and water capital, is paid locally,
and spent locally, and is subject to British
taxation. The interest on N.S.W.’s liability
of millions is mostly paid abroad, is.
spent abroad, and is exempt from N.S.W.
taxation. England is subject to the local
capitalist; Australia is the bond slave of the
absentee. If Britain’s public debt was held
in France, and its municipal debts in the
United States, and its railways were owned
in Germany, and its water supply companies
belonged to Dutchmen, and all these had to.
be exempted from taxation in order to pacify
the French and Yankee and German and
Dutch owners, the British and the Australian
situations would be parallel. As things
stand there is no resemblance between them
whatsoever.
• • • •
Europe, in the bad old Middle Ages, and
Latin America to a much later date, were
overshadowed by a power which owned
a stupendous proportion of the country’s
wealth, and which refused to pay taxes,
whereby a crushing burden wasthrown on the
remainder of the community. That power
was the Church. Australia is rearing a similar
curse ; but it isn’t the Church —it is Cohen.
Australia’s foreign State bond-holder has the
same exemption from Australian taxation
that the Church used to have in France,
Spain, Italy, and Mexico, and he is growing
to be just as overshadowing. And whereas
the Church, at all events, spent most of its
revenues locally, Cohen spends his else-
where. Australia is now, in proportion to
population, the great absentee - owned
country of the earth. Its alleged policy of
State socialism is a sham. It has less real
State socialism now than England possesses.
In England the railways, water-works, public
liabilities, &c., are at least mainly owned by
Englishmen. In Australia, railways, tele-
graphs, water-supply, culverts, bridges,
roads, harbor works, &c., &c., are owned
by foreigners, the Government being merely
the agent, factor, bailiff, or deputy of the
foreign owner. The British railway share-
holder put up the money to build his own
railways*; the Australian railway shareholder
(i.e., the general taxpayer) has consistently
refused to do so, and regards it as a ridiculous
insult that he should be expected to do so.
Yet he fondly imagines that he owns the
property he didn’t pay for. There is no
grander ideal than State ownership of all
public works; if N.S.W. had no debt, then
uvery family of five would own about £250
worth of wealth as its permanent and in-
alienable share of the State’s assets ; and it is
difficult to imagine anything better than that
as a beginning of “ Socialism in our Time.”
And just because the Labor party doesn’t
make the total cessation of borrowing and
the repayment of the existing debt the first
plank of its political platform, it either
knows nothing or cares nothing for social-
ism in our time, or in anybody else’s time.
.
The British policy of the private owner-
ship of land, railways, waterworks, &c., has
led to a horrible inequality between the rich
and the poor in England. The Australian
policy of private ownership of railways,
roads, bridges, harbours, telegraphs, &c., by
the British money-lender, with the State as
his intermediary and rent-collecting agent,
is leading to the same inequality here, only
the poor are in Australia and the rich mono-
polist is in England, and, being out of sight,
he attracts little or no attention. There is
no evil in the way of monopoly and social
inequality with which England is cursed that
Australia is not toiling to reproduce—with
the absentee curse as an additional drawback.
Australia has, for many years, been selling
its whole future for a little extra ease and a
little less trouble in the present. Now, in
its time of slump, it hasn’t produced one
eminent politician who is prepared to urge
the people to reform, though it has produced
dozens who are toiling to prove that there is
no need of reform. And among this noble
and disorganised army of whitewashers, the
saddest and most disappointing specimen is
B. R. Wise, who holds that, because Britain
owes £53 per head to itself, it is quite right
that we should owe £6O per head to some-
body else ; and that, because Britain owns
its railways, and its own public liabilities,
and is solvent, therefore N.S.W., which
doesn't own its railways or its public liabili-
ties, must be solvent also.
• * f *
Australia is in one or other of two posi-
tions. If it can’t go on without foreign bor-
rowing then it is insolvent, and its insol-
vency will become apparent just as soon
as the loan money stops coming in. If it
can get on without it, then it is still solvent,
but is cursed with a gang of cowardly and
incompetent politicians, and is the home of
a shiftless and incompetent people. In the
former case, it can’t meet its liabilities ; in
the latter it can, but whether, after all the
years of easy-going drift, it will brace up
and take the trouble to do so is another
matter. In a country where the debt is held
locally, there is a large bond-holding class
whose vote always goes for paying up
honestly at any cost, and when, as in Britain,
the bond-holding class is also the governing
-class, public solvency is especially assured.
In a country where the debt is mos y
abroad there is no such class and no such
incentive to public honesty. Attorney-
General Wise has volubly assured the British
public that we have in no way derogated
from the honesty of our British fore-
fathers, and in that respect he may
possibly speak the truth. Like our British
forefathers we are honest when it clearly
pays to be so, and at other times we are
doubtful. There is hardly a treaty which
Britain has made that it didn’t break just as
.soon as it found that by so doing the gain
would be its own and the loss would be the
other fellow’s. But if it broke faith with its
public creditor the ruling class would stand
most of the loss and have the disgrace as
well, so on that point British faith is now
founded on a rock. (While the King was
the governing power, however, and repudia-
tion meant his profit and somebody elses
loss, the British public debt was repudiated
pretty regularly.) If Australia ever decided
that it was cheaper to compound with its
creditors than to face its liabilities it would
be just in the same situation as Britain
occupied when it broke its solemn treaty
with the Orange Free State and stole the
Diamond Fields ; it would have the profit
and the loss would be another person’s share.
Under these circumstances even Mr. Wise s
assurance counts for less than might appear
on the surface. Australia has already found
that its public men can’t be trusted to deal
honestly with a sinking fund or a civil service
superannuation fund when there is a very
slight temptation to be otherwise. How
they will pan out in larger matters when a
larger temptation comes along only time can
tell.
Some Aspects of the Tariff Issue.
Mr. E. W. Owe’Sullivan, N.S.W. Minister for
Works, writes as follows: —
Under the above heading your Feb. 28th issue con-
tained certain statements concerning my attitude towards
Protection, which are both incorrect and unfair to me.
I never dealt with any tender for 75,000 barrels of cement
for the new reservoir in connection with the Sydney
Water Supply, but I did decide one for 50,000 barrels, the
whole of which went to N.S.W. manufacturers. I never
first proposed to purchase the whole of this supply of
50,000 barrels from the foreigner. With regard to the
successful tenders, no indignant representation by the
Chamber of Manufacturers was ever laid before me, nor
was there any threat of a public agitation. How could
there be when the local manufacturers got the tender ?
I have had, however, threats from the foreigner. There
has, therefore, been no betrayal of Protection by me, but
there has been a want of accuracy in your informant,
which shows that he knows but little of the subject upon
which he grossly misled you. As a matter of fact, I have
on many occasions helped local manufacturers by giving
them orders, and this, I think, they will be willing to
admit. With regard to Protection and democracy, The
Bulletin need be under no doubt as to my loyalty to
either. An 18 years’ record in Parliament, and more than
three years’ administration as Minister for Works, ought
to afford many proofs on these points.
• • » •
The Bulletin’s information was from a member
of the Chamber of Manufacturers, and was
endorsed by a responsible officer of that body. It
was accordingly used without very close scrutiny.
Mr. Owe’Sullivan’s denial has led to a searching
and complete investigation into the whole question
—and thatshowsthat Mr. Owe’Sullivan canrightly
contradict this paper on certain inaccuracies of
detail, while on the actual facts The Bulletin
hardly blamed the Owe’Sullivan enough. That
mistake will now be rectified. When the Common-
wealth tariff on cement was imposed in October,
1901, with the object of allowing Australian
manufacturers to pay decent wages to their
workmen, and yet compete with the foreign
article produced at wage-rates equal to only one-
third of the Australian level, the N.S.W. Works
Department, then (and still) under the control of
Mr. Owe’Sullivan, sought to go behind the
intentions of the Australian Parliament by calling
for tenders for cement in bond. In bond the
German article could undercut the local, though
in the open market of Sydney the_ local could
undercut the duty-paid foreign article. These
tactics lasted some 12 months, during which
time local manufacturers were given no chance of
competing with theforeigners. The while, however,
the N.S.W. Railway Commissioners, with a much
clearer idea of public duty, called for tenders
for their supplies on a tariff-paid basis, and
accordingly were supplied exclusively by local
manufacturers. Local manufacturers protested
repeatedly to Mr. Owe’Sullivan, but without
avail. He was asked, by way of gentle satire, if
the foreign producers, to whom the actions of his
department practically confined the patronage of
the Government in cement contracts, would be re-
quired to pay the minimum wage enforced on local
Government contractors, and he replied that he
had no means of enforcing a minimum wage in
Germany.
The N.S.W. Works Department and the
Owe’Sullivan were, doubtless, influenced by
these considerations: —
(1) The N.S.W. Govt, was, at the time, contending
that no duty could be collected by the Australian Govt,
on goods imported by a State Govt. In the event of that
contention being upheld, the whole of the duty paid by it
on its cement imports would be returned.
2. In any event, the Braddon clause ensured the return
of three-fourths of the duty paid ; and, since the Aus-
tralian Government was not at the time using its full
one-fourth of the total customs, virtually the whole duty
would come back.
3. The duty would be paid in the first instance out of
borrowed nionej'—the cement being used on works con-
structed out of loan funds ; the return, whether in part
or in whole, of the duty Would be engulphed in the con-
solidated revenue and be another proof “ of the elasticity
of the State’s finances,” &c., &c
These considerations—as regards Nos. 1 and 2
at least—are probably defensible on Freetrade
grounds ; and No. 3, whilst in the light of private
commercial methods absurdly reckless and dis-
honest, is quite in keeping with the established
traditions of Australian public finance. They show
as objectionable only when examined in the light of
a Protectionist and National ideal; and then they
appear as quite inadequate excuses for the thrift-
less and heartless system of keeping the local
workman out of a job so as to get it done at a
nominally cheaper rate by an alien. But that was
the policy of the N.S.W. Works Department
until, finally, representatives of local industry
brought the matter under the notice of Premier
See. Then, at a conference between them, the
Premier and Minister Owe’Sullivan, the system
of giving unfair preference to the foreigner was
ended, for the while at any rate. Contracts since
then—including that .for the Prospect dam—have
gone to local manufacturers.
As the protest and negotiations were kept
private, ana as there was, after their happy ter-
mination, no reason for any party to feel aggrieved
and to complain publicly, it is not surprising that
the current account of the matter should have
become a little confused in details, whilst not in
any way exaggerating the root of the grievance.
The Bulletin is sorry to have reproduced in
print any of the confusion ; more sorry that the
details makes the case worse for Minister of
Works Owe’Sullivan, for, as the Owe’Sullivan
points out, he hat done good work for Protection
and democracy in the past, has helped to cultivate
a healthy, national feeling. But it would seem as
if, of late, borrowing had dulled the edge of his
democratic husbandry.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Slander of “Joey” Carrathers.
Thl following is taken from the Sydney Tele-
graph’s report of the recent speech of “Joey”
Carruthers, when he orated at Paddington
(N.S.W.) on the subject of “Our Misgoverned
Country ”:
The Federal and State Governments had bandied
backwards and forwards their responsibilities in the
matter of suspending the fodder duties. They had trifled
with the people while the great staple industry of the
State was being ruined. One consequence—there was
less work for and less revenue from the Government
railways; another consequence—the Government could
not get its rents from its tenants on the land. Then the
wheat crop failed. Here again the Federal Government
came to the rescue by taxing breadstuffs to the tune of
£250,000 1 They had fattened on the poverty and troubles
of the needy.
The above may be, to some extent, the misre-
presentation of a hurried reporter, and may not
be exactly what the orator said. But if it is what
he said, then “Joey ” Carruthers was guilty of a
mean and shameful political lie, and a grossly
wicked slander, and he doesn’t understand the
meaning of fair play. The Federal Government
didn’t “ fatten on the food duties it collected
in N.S.W. It is no fatter than if there had
been no food duties at all. It isn’t a penny
richer for the collection of these duties, for
as it has never taken anything like the full 25 per
cent, of the customs and excise revenue to which
it is entitled, it would have had just as much re-
venue as it has now if there had been no food
duties. Instead of “fattening” on the N.S.W.
food duties, the economical Treasurer Tup.ner
carefully returned the money to N.S.W., to be
available for the supply of relief to the drought-
stricken settlers. Of course if the N.S.W.
Government thought fit to refund the duties to
those who paid them, then N.S.W. would be
importing its food absolutely free —but it didn’t
feel so inclined. The Federal Government
couldn’t abolish the food duties, for its act would
have had to apply to the whole Commonwealth,
and the other States (it maybe well, just here, to
inform “Joey” Carruthers that N.S.W. isn’t
the whole Commonwealth) objected. And
N.S.W., which could have wholly abolished these
duties as regards its own territory, merely at
the cost of losing the revenue they supplied,
refused to do so. It was wise in so acting. The
drought reduced the revenue from many sources.
It caused a loud demand for increased expenditure
in relief, and the money for relief must come from
somewhere. To levy a small tax on the food of
useless and comparatively affluent city non-pro-
ducers like Carruthers (for the imported food
was mostly used in the city) was as good a way as
any to get over the difficulty. Certainly it was
better at the moment than putting an extra tax
on the drought-stricken farmer’s land just when
his last horse had died and his family was clothed
in bagging. But, however that may be, the
Federal Government did not “fatten” in any
sense on the N.S.W. food duties. The re-
mark, if it is correctly reported, only goes
to show how much the parish-minded poli
tician hates the idea of Australian unity,
and how far he will go in disregard of the
truth in order to malign and misrepresent the
Australian Government. The poor, inferior,
tenth-rate parish pump politician in office charges
the Australian Government with all his failures.
The same man, who expects to be in office, charges
his prospective failures to the Australian Govern
ment in advance. If it supplies enough revenue
to provide the means of relieving the drought
ruined settlers it is a cruel tyrant levying “oppres-
sive taxation if it doesn’t levy “oppressive taxa
tion,” then it is an unfeeling institution which
won’t supply the means to relieve the drought
cursed selector. And when the parochial poli
tician comes to a bad hitch in his oration he
always curses the Australian Government in a
genera] way till he can think what to say next-
just as he might curse the Chinaman or the Pope.
♦
Kingston Speaks.
When Customs Minister Kingston faced an
Adelaide audience, last week, the reception given
to him was that which always awaits the Man in
politics. Men —real men—are rare in Parliamen-
tary life, the general rule of which seems to be
progress by tortuous intrigue, by corrupt
favoritism, by palsied conciliation of enemies,
rather than by straightforward and manly advo-
cacy of principle. But it is strange that this
rarity should continue whilst there is such frequent
proof that there is no surer path to the hearts of
the people than that of the courageous man who
goes straight. The shuffling, clowning, con-
ciliating, dodging politician has his small
or great triumphs, according as he can
shuffle to the best advantage; but when the
public man appears who is defiant of all those
arts, who neither seeks friends nor compromises,
who is as absolute in principle as politics (neces
sarily tinged with some expediency) allow, the
other sort shrivels before him. The French
Premier, who last year went to the polls pledged
to an uncompromising hostility to the anti-
Republican conspiracies of both clerics and
Chauvinists, courted destruction in the minds of
timorous shufflers ; he ranged against him church
and army, the two greatest forces in the State.
Yet he won. because the people, appealed to
bravely, answered bravely. Kingston, hounded
down almost unanimously by the Australian daily
press, ranging against himself that large section
of the wealthy lower orders which has no desire
to be more honest than is absolutely necessary—
yet finds his way to the hearts of the people, who
respect him for his his sincerity,
his incorruptible honesty, for tne very gruffness
of his challenge to dishonest “ respectability.” His
meeting at Adelaide far exceeded in its enthusiasm
and in its mass all recent demonstrations, and put
completely in the shade the comic entertainment
recently contributed by G. H. Reid. Even the
bitterly hostile Freetrade daily press has to admit
that. And it was solely a tribute to honesty and
courage'in politics, for Adelaide, misled by its news-
papers and by a weak-kneed generation of poli-
ticians, has lately weakened considerably on its
Federal enthusiasm; and finds many occasions,
through its local Jenkins Iscariot, to belittle the


Federal Government. Mr. Kingston waited long,
patiently and silently under such a flood of unjust
censure as has seldom been poured on a public
man. Now that he has broken the silence, the
glowing pride with which his hearers received his
words is as fine a vindication, as complete an
encouragement, as a public man could wish for.
*
The Victorian Railway Muddle.
Premier Irvine is about to put in practice Ms
great idea that the remedy for the disorganisation
of the Victorian railways lies in giving the
management the same unlimited powers of sack-
ing men without appeal that private employers
enjoy. And in one sense Irvine is quite justified.
The Victorian railways are crowded with incom-
petent men who hold their positions by political
influence, and peremptory powers of “sack,” if
the powers belong to the right kind of man, would
probably shift the great majority of them. The
promotion of many a good man is blocked because
immediately above him there is an incompetent
drunk with what the Americans describe as a
“pull.” But, on the other hand, there is an
aspect of the case which Irvine overlooks.
The private employer seldom sacks a really
valuable man merely because of a personal
prejudice, or because of the man’s religion, or be-
cause he doesn’t grovel sufficiently—the fact that
the loss of the valuable man will be his (the em-
ployer’s) personal loss is a restraining influence,
and even a very incompetent private employer
gets an occasional glimpse of his own interest.
The mere ganger or overseer can let his prejudices
run riot, for the loss of a valuable man, discharged
for insufficient abasement, or for not belonging to
the right brand of superstition, isn’t his loss. The
new system will work well enough—much better
than the old one in fact —if it is intelligently ad-
ministered, and with that end in view it cer-
tainly must not be administered by Bent. Mean-
while a new Canadian Chief Commissioner has
been engaged, and that individual is on his way
to Victoria to take charge. The papers state
that the poor wretch “thoroughly understands
the position with regard to the Victorian railways
and the task which he has before him.” The
Bulletin is prepared to bet a considerable
sum that he doesn’t. When he finds himself
in charge of 3000 miles of rotten railway which
hasn’t been decently repaired for ten years, with
350 good locomotives and 150 cripples, with the
rolling-stock dry-rotted, a staff that isn’t large
enough to clean the engines, a Government that
refuses to pay for repairs and which demands that
he shall earn interest on lines that are closed,
and make lines pay where there is practically no
population through the persistent blocking of
settlement by the big western landlords; when
he finds that the trains have given up trying to be
less than two hours late, and the express is
habitually hauled by a goods engine; when he
finds himself expected to produce vastly better
results out of the railways alone than his native
Canada can show with stupendous land-grants, to
help out the railway revenue ; when he finds him-
self ordered about by crassly ignorant politicians,
saddled with hopeless new lines, and expected
to carry starving stock gratis; and when he
makes the acquaintance of Bent and chaos —the
new manager will probably be a very much
astonished man. Unless the Irvine Government
sent him Bent’s photograph and a full list of
Bent’s language, his knowledge of what lies
before him is very limited indeed.
The Haw, Officah, and Haw, Gentleman.
The notion of the Screwmaker of England, that
Imperialism in its rampant and aggressive form
can be largely supported by levying on “ the
colonies ’’ for men and money is evidently not
shared, so far as concerns the men (unless they
keep in the ranks), by “ the gentlemen of
England”—or, at any rate, that section of
the gentlemen which has been left by its
ancestors with sufficient energy to play polo
and join the army. During the S’African
war very many of the * ‘ colonial ’ recruits who
showed special skill in warfare were secured per-
manently for the service of the Empire by the
grant of com missions in the British army. These
men seemed likely to make good professional
soldiers —the kind who would make, a living out
of the army and help to maintain in reasonable
efficiency the fighting force of a nation, which
seems to have seen its best military days. The
authorities contrived with some wisdom, from
their point of view, but the gentlemen of England
have since upset the little scheme pretty effectu-
ally, and thus removed a very real danger to Aus-
tralian nationalism. Jf the adventurous young
manhood of the Commonwealth could find a good
outlet for its energies in the British army, doubt-
less the military profession would call very many
away. But the officer and gentleman in the
British army stands in the way. He takes up
towards the “ mere colonial ” an attitude.of offen-
sive snobbery, refuses to associate with him,
tries to drive him out of the service by raising
the regimental expenses, and speaks civilly to him
only when suggesting that he should take his
slovenly unhandsome plebianism out of the way
by seeking employment abroad. According to
liondon Daily Mail :
Whenever the War Office issues a circular asking for
“jungle and swamp” volunteers the notice is thrust
before the attention of the colonial officer, and to his fit-
ness for the post, he is told, attention will be specially
drawn. The ranker is to have all the drudgery of the
Empire’s outposts with the prospect of the Sandhurst
man superseding him when the guns begin to shoot.
Here are some of the employments which colonial officers
are going in for, in order to free themselves from an un-
pleasant situation :—Egyptian Army, South African Con-
stabulary, West African Field Force, Colonial Forces,
Chinese Regiment, King’s African Rifles, West India
Regiment.
The “colonial officer,” in short, is Urged to keep
to the kennel and to the kitchen, and leave the
drawing-room to the “officah —haw —and gentle-
man.” This snobbery is probably a bad thing for
Britain, but it’s certainly a good, thing for Aus-
tralia. Then, again, the disgusting fact has now
come to light that the flogging of subordinate
officers by their superiors is largely practised in
the British army, the flogging being.ordered by a
secret and self-appointed court-martial.. Even if
the Australian officer wasn’t promptly driven out of
the service by the caddish and blastiferous
“gentlemen of England” he would. probably
object to stay on these terms and conditions, l his
difficulty requires to be looked into before there is
any further discussion about the advisability of
Australia contributing men to the British army
and navy. When Chamberlain and co. can t
prevent their muddled and ill-regulated forces
from illegally throwing out the Australians who
are already in them, what is the good of Chamber-
lain and co. demanding that more Australians
shall come in ?
General Hutton Again.
General Hutton has been keeping so quiet lately
that memory of his blunders was almost fading
away. Those two very awkward matters await-
ing decision—the Drayton Grange scandal and
the Bush veldt scapegoats scandal—have doubtless
provided reasons why the Imperial officer who
represents British army interests in Australia was
glad to let the public forget his existence for a
while. But General Hutton simply cannot keep
out of trouble, for any length of time, and he has
now plunged into difficulties again with an absurd
attempt to amend the King’s regulations as
regards thepresence of soldiers at public demon-
strations. The regulation in force in Britain on
this point reads:
76. Officers and Volunteers of a Corps or Regiment are
not, individually or collectively, to attend political meet-
ings or join in public political discussions or demonstra-
tions in uniform. Bands of Corps or Regiments are not
to appear in uniform for any purpose without the consent
of the Commanding Officers of their Corps or Regiments.
That has been found to work satisfactorily enough
in Britain. But at someone’s foolish instigation,
General Hutton (Commonwealth Gazette pro-
clamation, 27/2/’O3) applies an amended regulation
to Australia’s citizen soldiery.
Officers and soldiers are forbidden to institute or, when
in uniform, attend any meeting, demonstration, or pro-
cession for any religious or political purpose.
This regulation also applies to Bands of Regiments or
Corps.
The absurdity of this is easily seen. It would
prevent Major Jawbone Nkild from instituting
any meeting, demonstration or procession, and
drive out of public life all volunteer officers.
Practically, that, perhaps, would not be an un-
mixed evil, but it is probably not intended, and
clumsiness, not design, is responsible for the
wording of the regulation. Further, that well-
known military institution, “church parade,”
is clearly abolished—which is also probably by
inadvertence rather than by design. Summarised,
the new prohibitions placed upon the citizen
soldiery are :
1. Denial of the right to have any share in instituting
any meeting, demonstration or procession for any
religious or political purpose. 2. Denial of the right to
attend church or to take part in any march to church
when in uniform.
And The Bulletin doesn’t think that Major-
General Hutton really means all that. Rather it
imagines that he has been trying to amend the
King’s regulations with a reckless ignorance of
the King’s English.
“Our Misgoverned Country.”
Joseph . Carruthers, Leader of the N.S.W.
Opposition, is conducting, with all the mild
ferocity of a sheep, a series of meetings which are
supposed to represent the uprising of New South
Wales against the misdeeds of the O’See Ministry.
These misdeeds are many and glaring, but the
spectacle of “ J oey ” Carruthers rising to protest
against them is calculated to make the buried dead
rise up and laugh hilariously in their grave-clothes.
New South Wales remembers Joseph only too
well. He was the colleague of George Reid, and
part-owner of the Dry Dog; the defender of
Retd’s deficits and the man who helped to deny
that there were any ; and the apologist for that
unclean political swindle when Reid manufactured
his one big surplus by not charging to the
year ended 30th June the half-year’s interest
on the public debt which was paid over about the
16th June, but described the money as cash on
hand at the end of the month. It remembers him
as the man who strenuously supported Reid when
he abandoned Dibbs’s policy of economy, and ran
up the borrowings from £1,330,000 to over
.£2,000,000 a year; and as the voluble person who
assured the public that when George Reid
charged, in the year which ended on 30th June,
1899, £833,000 of ordinary and wholly unproduc-
tive expenditure to loans, that the proceeding was
quite honest and honorable. It distinctly recol-
lects Joe also, as a man who was glad to hold
office, with a minority behind him, as long as he
could hold it, being kept in power by what he
now denounces as the unconstitutional process of
buying the Labor vote by concessions. New
South Wales remembers its Joseph for these
matters in detail, and it also recollects him
generally as a politically unclean person who was
partly responsible for the dirtiest and most sordid
period of latter-day N.S.W. history. It might
overlook even all this if there was any sign that
Joseph Carruthers had repented, but there
isn’t. It finds in him the same old, voluble, dap-
trappy Joe, with a platitude in his right hand,
and a myth in his left, and a big, resonant poly-
syllable in his mouth. And this is the programme
he offers: —
1. Responsible Government to be re-established and
maintained in its integrity.
2. General legislation tending to the common good,
and not based on class interests.
3. Ministerial administration to be just, firm, and
impartial. . . .
4. Reduction of members to 84 in Lower and 42 in
Upper House.
5. Financial reform; living within our means; loan
expenditure to be confined to reproductive permanent
works ; a sinking fund to be established.
6. Public Service appointments to be made only on
recommendation of Public Service Board, and to be free
from political patronage. ...... ..
7. Local municipal government to be established in the
shape of a Municipal Act for towns, and local govern-
ment for country districts, with special arrangements for
unsettled districts.
8. Public Works policy to be progressive yet prudent,
water conservation being kept in the front.
9. The application of a Closer Settlement Act.
The first three items are merely the sort of thing
that anybody can find at the top of any page in
any copy-book. The reform of the Upper House is
the policy on which Joseph’s old Ministry fought
two elections, and it came back each time with
a big majority—and left the Upper House unre-
formed. As regards Local Government, Joseph’s
Cabinet advocated it for five years, and did
nothing. And Joseph helped to assure the coun-
try for five years that his old Deficit Ministry was
living within its means; and he belonged to a
Government that spent over £BOO,OOO a year of
loan money for revenue purposes, and assured the
country that the loan expenditure ivas being
“ confined to reproductive permanent works ” ; so
his assurance that he is going to say the same
things over again is only Bacon’s promissory note
endorsed by. Pork. If the shifty Joseph Car-
ruthers will come down to details, and say
exactly how much per cent, his proposed sinking-
fund will be ; exactly what works he is going to
call “ permanent and reproductive ” ; how large a
deficit he will call “living within our means”;
and what are his views on the complete cessation
of borrowing, then he might be a sufficiently
tangible Joe to be worth listening to.
♦
The King as a Ru’er.
The Daily Mail states that since King Edward’s
accession to the throne he has commanded the attendance
of Ministers 123 times ; that he advised'them upon the
Colonial Conference, and many other subjects, evidently
intending to exercise no inconsiderable influence upon
the policy of the Empire.— Cable item,
If it is true—the Daily Mail’s statement may
not be absolutely accurate, though it is reinforced
by other evidence-that King Edward is deter-
mined to “exercise no inconsiderable influence
upon the policy of the Empire,” there ma p be a
good deal of troub'e ahead for that Empire.
The last time that a British King exercised
no inconsiderable influence, etc.”, was when
George 111. reigned, and the American colonies
were lost, and hundreds of millions of pounds were
spent in the effort to convert the French nation
from a belief in Republicanism. Since the
disasters which that reactionary monarch
inflicted upon Britain, the sovereign has been a
mere rybber-stamp registering the decrees of
Parliament. The flattery of courtiers might have
suggested otherwise, but each sovereign who
reigned in England, including Victoria, was, so
far as ruling was concerned, a nonentity. Queen
Victoria might hate Gladstone, who “spoke to
her as if she were a public meeting,” and revere
Disraeli, the vulgar Jew with the velveteen
breeches and the oiled ringlet and the genius for
flattery, but she could not hasten by one day the
dismissal of one or the summoning of the other.
The monarch, excluded from Cabinet meetings,
forbidden to influence Parliament directly, has
become under the British system the mere gilded
spout through which flows the voice of Parliament.
That is the working compromise which the British
people—a people withagenius for compromises and
no very keen sense of the ridiculous—has made
between republicanism and monarchism. The
monarch is preserved as a splendid mummy,
without power, but with all the reverence
accorded to Supreme Power, and Parliament
rules without hindrance. King Edward, if the
reports be true, wishes to break the terms of that
compromise, to arrogate to himself real power,
and to become a ruling as well as a reigning
monarch. Doubtless the idea has been put into
his head by the new school of pushful ex-radical
politicians—the men who once professed to be too
republican to shake hands with a king or a king’s
son, and who now wish to prove the sincerity
of their change of heart in the manner
natural to renegades. But if he has any lucid
moments of common sense, King Edward will
put the dangerous suggestion away irrevocably.
For even if the British people would tolerate a
King-ruler, the innovation would fail, for the
British system, whilst killing 1 the King-power, has
probably also killed the King-capacity and pro-
duced a breed of monarehs capable of laying
■foundation-stones and setting the fashion in vests
with good nature—capable of that and little more.
It would be as absurd to expect from Edward or
his son George any capacity for government as to
look for “ new-woman ” ideas in a harem. If he
is wise, Edward will “lay to bis book” —to his
foundation-stones and waistcoats—and so nob
endanger his generous salary.
When the Australian Navigation Bill is before
Parliament attention should be given to the
matter of securing an adequate number of able
seamen for all ocean-going vessels. Mr. Belcher,
Secretary of the Maoriland Seamen’s Union,
gives in a Maoriland paper figures as to the
ridiculously small number of able seaman re-
quired under the present law :
Mararoa, 1381 tons, licensed to carry 368 passengers,
compelled by law to take only eight able seamen.
Takapuna, 1036 tons, licensed to carry 163 passengers ;
compelled to take five able seamen.
Waikari, 1901 tons, licensed for 316 passengers ; must
carry nine able seamen.
If only the legal complement of able seamen were
carried, in some cases there would not be one able
seaman per boat in case of accident, and in such a
crisis it is only the able seaman who can be de-
pended upon ; the steward or “galley slush” is
mostly useless, or nearly so. The Union S.S. Co.,
as it happens, does not take advantage of the law
to so ridiculously under-man its steamers ; because
it is a wise co. with valuable vessels and a reputa-
tion that is worth preserving. But experience
shows that some shipping companies will take no
precautions which are not absolutely forced upon
them by the law; and it is for those companies
that a Navigation Act is wanted.
Victorian Treasurer Shiels, of the Rueful
Countenance, has made a second violent attack on
the Old Age Pensions Act. Shiels seems deter-
mined to wreck the Victorian Act, and, with that
object, he has enlisted the services of the polire-
sergeants throughout the State. The unthinking
police officers, like most public servants, are
opposed to the Old Age Pensions Act be-
cause they have been told by an inhuman Tory
crowd that it is responsible for the retrenchment
policy of the Government, which includes adding
five years to the term a policeman must serve
before he can get a pension. Yet Shiels has
sent round to them for reports on the habits and
circumstances of the pensioners in each district.
In doing that he is going at the back of the courts
which granted pensions, and also going outside
the law. Further, he is guilty of the meanest
trick that has ever marred the administration of
any Victorian Treasurer, because he parades these
probably prejudiced repoits before the public as
impartial, conclusions drawn from facts. All
this trickery and inhumanity on the part of Shiels
and others, who want to down the old-age pen-
sioners, spring from fear of a land-tax. Shiels,
by the way, is largely interested, in one way and
another, in Western District estates, so his
prejudices are most likely to go with the anti-
land-tax crowd.
Readers of recent Melb. Argus “ The Land Our
Mainstay” articles would fancy that the Western
district of Victoria was blessed with a race of
land-holding philanthropists of the first order.
The special reporter has drawn a really beautiful
picture of the generous landlord and the happy,
contented tenant. But during the c’oser settle-
ment discussion in Vie. Parliament, t’other night,
one of the members of that region, R. F. Toutcher,
showed a vastly different (and much truer) aspect
of the case. He told of toiling tenants, crushed
under extortionate rents, galled by restric-
tions that must be loathsome to any in whom the
spirit of free men still exists, and with no hope of
ever becoming independent citizens. And he. is
undoubtedly right. It is easy to see the motive
of the Argus’ articles—to delay as much as pos-
sible, by booming the squire and tenant system,
what must eventually come in Victoria —compul-
sory resumption and a State tenant system.
Amongst other senseless slush ladled out by the
special reporter is the assertion that the land-
letting squatters are “pioneers” and “experi-
mentalists ” in the use of manures and scientific
methods of farming, whereas in reality they are
simply hard, unfeeling business men driving a
cruelly hard bargain for their own benefit. It
will take more than the fulsome flattery of the
Argus groveller to make the rack-renting land-
lord a public benefactor
*
Launceston (Tas.) Examiner, which always lies
heroically on behalf. of the Retrograde Party,
strongly urges Victoria to adopt that part of the
Factories Commission’s report Which advocates
the abolition of the old Minimum Wage Law, and
not to adopt the other part, which recommends the
establishment, as a substitute, of Arbitration
Courts with power to fix wages. As regards the
Minimum Wage this fine large hunky lie is really
thrilling :
After the experience of the disastrous results of the
determinations of the wages boards—the utter stagnation
of trade, closing of factories, dearth of employme t,
strangling of enterprise and emigration by thousanus oi
artisans—with scarcely one compensating advantage, ine
abolition of the wages boards will come as a reprieve trom
industrial annihilation.
Under the Minimum Wage law the number of
employees in Victorian manufactures increased
from 50,397 in 1896 to 66,529 in 1901; and the
number of factories increased in the same period
from 2809 to 3249. This is the Examiner’s
“closing of factories, dearth of employment,
strangling of enterprise ” and all the other lies !
At the time of writing, there is no definite know*
ledge as to what steps Victorian Premier Irvine
proposes to take in regard to his Reform Bill.
He must do something definite now—either back
•down definitely or deal with the obstructive
Council definitely—for the House of Landlords
has a second time knocked all the reform pro-
posals out of his Reform Bill and thrown it back
at him with emphatic contempt. Obviously the
House of Landlords does not think that Irvine is
really in earnest; if it did, it would not run the
risk of destruction which any “ Upper House ”
incurs when it opposes a resolute Government,
backed up by a majority of the popularly-elected
branch of the Legislature. The point in doubt is
whether Irvine’s intentions can be best judged
by the public from his public speeches or by the
Landlords from their private acquaintance with
the gentleman. The Bulletin, with all its pro-
found distrust of the average politician, feels
•compelled to think that Irvine must stand by his
public utterances. They have been so clear and
emphatic as to defy the most ingenious mind to
explain them away; and the only method of
going back on them is by a direct admission of
falsehood and cowardice. Of course that is
possible—anything is possible to the average poli-
tician. Still the position seems to indicate that
something is going to happen to the Victorian
Upper House.
Agar Wynne, M.L.C. (Vic.), achieved notoriety
last week. His horse, Great Scot, won the Aus-
tralian Cup; his house at St. Kilda was entered
by a burglar; his life was threatened by an alleged
madman ; and he made a Tory speech in the
House of Rich Landlords on the Reform question
which completely right-about-faced on his own
utterances of a year before in favor of the Peacock
Reform Bill, when he was a salaried Minister.
When a Democratic Ministry is in power there is
always one good Democrat in the Vic. Council —
the salaried Minister. He was generally a bitter
Tory before he got the salary, and he is a violent
Tory after the salary expires, but while the salary
lasts he is a good enough Democrat. If 25 salaried
Ministers could be appointed in the Vic. Council
almost anything might happen. It is that body’s
amenableness to a salary which makes The
Bulletin suggest that the Council would vote its
own abolition if the Bill provided that the whole
48 would go out with £IOOO a year life pension—
and their abolition would be cheap at the price.
+.
“F”: Yesterday I heard a South Sea Island
missionary, an old, solid, square-headed High-
lander, who has spent over 30 years with Tommy
Tanna, say to a big audience what, as a White
Australian, sent a thrill of pride and satisfaction
through me. Said the big, serious, old man, with
a huge right hand raised to Heaven :
I want you to mark carefully what lam saying. There
is nothing that this new Commonwealth Parliament can
do that will redound more to its honor and glory than the
passing of the Act which is terminating the South Sea
labor traffic. If the name of this first Federal Parliament
lives by anything it has done, it will be by this noble and
humane Act. I speak of what I know, and I say that the
abolition of this traffic is a thing to thank God for.
The speaker pointed out that the natives of the
New Hebrides were a decaying race, and that the
labor traffic was simply a pouring out of the life-
blood of the islands. And so unhealthy to white
life are these islands that, unlike the case of the
Australian aborigines, the black man’s loss will
not be the white man’s gain. (I put half-a-crown
in the collection on the strength of a White Aus-
tralia.) And here is another informative item to
the same point. Dr. Annand, of Santo Island,
New Hebrides, writing as late as Dec. last, says :
We learned that, at North Malekula, an English
recruiter had been shot dead by the bush people. . . .
His death was not unexpected by some, as he was
“ wanted ” by the natives in several places in the group.
No one need be surprised to hear of one or two more of
his class meeting with the same retribution. In fact it is
the only way the natives have of protecting themselves.
They are kidnapped by white men, and their evidence is
not accepted in the investigations. We have been dis-
tinctly told by our Commissioner that no charge against
a white men can be sustained unless under oath of a
white man or a Christian teacher, neither of whom is
likely to be present when an outrage is committed.
Once again—Three cheers for a White Australia !
» ■—
The Age is trying to awaken V ictoria to the fact
that the over-crowding and antiquated treatment
of lunatics in the State represents ultimately a
very poor economy. Victoria has, seemingly,
about the worst lunatic system in Australia, with
10,924 under treatment, and a percentage of
cures of only 28T6 (the N.S.W. percentage of
cures is 34 23, the Westralian 40'92). The patients
are over-crowded, persons only slightly deranged
being herded with hopeless and violent maniacs,
and the medical treatment is not the best pro-
curable. The consequence is a serious waste of
public money. Sound economy would suggest
treating the lunatic in the manner most likely
to ensure cure, scr £hat he may remain
an unproductive and costly maniac for the
shortest possible space of time. The foolish
parsimony of the Victorian Government saves a
few pounds on the first year’s treatment at the
price of having to keep a confirmed oase for years
afterwards. Practically every Australian Govern-
ment errs in the same way in its treatment of
lunatics, consumptives, etc. The sensible and
truly economical system is to spare no money or
pains to cure such folk ; the general system is to
box them up in an asylum, restrict curative effort
from motives of parsimony, and thus establish
them as permanent burdens on th® community.
This statement, supplied by a Mackay (North
Queensland) sugar-grower, is actually quoted in
the leader columns of Brisbane Courier —since it
fell out with Philp and his nigger-labor Ministry :
We are much better off than with the colored labor.
In the Mackay district the farmers who employed only
white labor have drawn about £15,000 in rebate, and it
has entirely changed the aspect «f affairs for nany of
them. The storekeepers can tell you that the result of
the season’s work has changed many bad accounts into
good ones. But there are other points which should be
mentioned. With the higher-priced labor we have to go
in for better cultivation ; we could not go on in the old
happy-go-lucky style. Then there is the necessity for
economising which farmers did not observe before. With
colored labor the hands were kept on practically all the
year round, and were paid twice a year, the mills guaran-
teeing the wages. That was not economical. Now the
work is chiefly contract, and the men have to be paid
when it is done. When the wages were guaranteed the
sum was deducted from the price of the cane purchased,
and the farmers often did not handle the money. Now
differently situated, and the whole tends to
economy.


SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws/
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD /
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
Admitted Assets, January i, 1902, £78,528,000.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place Sydney
Z. O. BENNIE, General Manager.
“The Rabbit Curse”
My be turned into a, blessing in disguise ”by such as have the energy to
systematically set about trapping dear bunny.
The Rosewarne Packing Co.. Ltd.
is now paying high prices for
rabbits at their Chilling Works
randera and Young, ani any quantity. Send for particulars to the Company
either at their Works or their
Head Office : 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The experiment will pay you well.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “The World.”
Royal “Zaza.”
Criterion. “When the Lamps are Lighted.”
Tivoli. .: Rickards' Co.
Palace “ Wrong Mr. Wright.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's. .... “The Fortune-Teller."
Rfr Mupmt'# / “ThB Geisha” (last nights).
Her Majesty s | (<The Emerald Igle (March 17 y
Bijou Woods-Williamson Co.
Theatre Royal “ Man’s Enemv.”
Opera House ..... Rickards' Vaudeville Co
♦
The voice of Dolores breathed forth a
farewell season in Sydney Town Hall from Satur-
day till Tuesday last, and, as usual, the heights
and depths of vocal lore were ransacked for gems
to make that last appearance especially brilliant,
so that it may glitter in the memory till the
wonderful little singer shall turn Australian wards
again. Mdlle. is now (unless the advertisement
prevaricated) on her way to Europe via America,
and it is whispered that she may not return to
Australia any more. If so, Australia is indeed
unfortunate, for Dolores is a national insti-
tution. Since Melba burst upon us with public
receptions, midnight bookings, gruesome shark
stories, thousand-guinea Thompson guarantees,
and all the rest of the pomp and circumstance
of gaudy, shrieking advertisement (and gave
four songs for a guinea) we have learned things.
We have learned somewhat of the true value of
the dainty little French lady who gave us so much
for our money, who sang with such human feeling,
and who ranged through all the compositions of
all the composers, living and dead —from Mas-
cagni back tnrough the ages to that nameless,
grim old Abbe who composed the wild dour Chant
of the Cross, which Geoffrey de Bouillon’s fanatios
howled as they tramped up the Mount of Olives
over heaps of dead. But The Bulletin hopes
that Dolores will come back again.
** » »
“ When the Lamps are Lighted ’ was re-
vived at Sydney Cri. last Saturday. It is a
curious farrago, part melodrama, part operatic
comedy, part everything or anything. Most
of the characters change their names oc-
casionally, while Johnny Sheridan and Miss
Celia Mavis further complicate matters by
disguising themselves as five or six other
persons respectively. This they do on the
slightest provocation, mostly with the intention
of helping Paul Wayland out of his difficulties.
Paul, who is well acted by Thomas Curran, has been
wrongfully accused of one crime, and in trying
to make things even with the villain is accused
of another. The characters as a rule act more
naturally in the operatic part than in the dramatic,
Miss Celia Mavis being rather an exception. Miss
Heba Barlow is not cut out for the gentle heroine
type of character; she nods her head in a manner
characteristic of the pert housemaid rather
than the cultivated daughter of society. Also
her walk 'would better suit slavey Semolina,
who, by the way, is well acted by Miss
Tilly Dunbar. Miss Mabel Hardinge-Maltbv, as
a lady whose sin has found her out, is a moderate
success, and little Frankie Rafferty, who
used to pervade the stage in a most natural
manner when enacted by Sheridan Junior, on this
occasion seems to remain mostly at the wings,
chiefly, it is presumed, because he is enacted by
someone else. A good deal of fair scenery is
shown, including a few slums, a “den” or two,
and the Thames Embankment, whereon the
costers frolic in a manner that is calculated to
interfere with traffic. These remarks don’t tend
in any large way to explain what the drama is
about. The writer, as a matter of fact, has given
up trying to decide what it is about.
W* * *
“Sweet Nell of Old Drury” will beguile
the bad King and the bkd King’s dog to-morrow
(Friday) for the last time. “Zaza,” in fiveactsand
two “z’s,” will follow at Sydney Royal on Saturday.
“Zaza” is French, and there are hopes that it is
wicked. The reports of its appearance in Mel-
bourne set forth that it was wicked in a certain
picturesque sense when it appeared there, but
didn’t set forth so clearly as they might have done
how wicked it was. Sydney has hopes that it is
wickeder —in a certain picturesque sense—than
these Melbourne notices seemed to imply. There-
fore, Sydney is making remarkably good time
down the street to buy its ticket. And while
doing so, Sydney desires to express a hope that
the Melbourne press will be more explicit next
time.
»* » *
“The Wrong Mr. Wright” continues to
pursue a gay but not really sinful career at Sydney
Palace, and with the cooler weather the play is
acted with more vim and the audience is able to
enjoy it with less restraint. It was not unalloyed
pleasure to go to a farce when, after a hearty
laugh, you felt as if you had fallen into a pool of
warm water. But the dog days seem to have
mercifully passed away from Sydney for a while.
** * *
Sutfeon Vane’s drama, the “ Cotton King,”
after a short stay at Sydney Lyceum, gives place
this Saturday to “The World,” which will be a
change for the better. The “Cotton King”
doesn’t rise anywhere above commonplace melo-
drama, and the various “sensations” don’t excite
enthusiasm somehow or other. The Mill Hands’
Picnic is one bright spot, but it doesn’t spread
into Acts 1., 111., and IV. “ The World,” so far
as writer remembers, boasts of a raft, an infernal
machine, and several interesting murders. A
really interesting murder has been lacking at the
Lyceum for some little time now.
*# m m
Programme at Sydney Tivoli brightened
up considerably this week. The new game of
“Push Ball” is a variant of “net-ball”—the idea
of which came from America—and provides some
interest, partly due to the game itself, largely to
the incidental display of female figures. Push-
ball played by men wouldn’t draw worth a cent.
John Coleman’s popularity continues, and the
Concertina King proves that he is a musician of
resource, with frequent changes of programme.
An innovation at the Tivoli, which seems
likely to attract some support, is “an illustrated
dramatic recital ”by John Cosgrove. The recital
is the sort of tripe which G. R. Sims wrote in his
worst moments, before he took to comparative
canity and an interest in hair restorers, and the
illustrations are almost bad enough for the yarn
But Mr. Cosgrove recites well, and with les*
atrocious material would do better —and probably
please his audienoe less. For the recital “ goes ”
very well as it is. Those remarkable gymnasts,
the Schenks, were announced to reappear on
Wednesday, the lltb.
** m m
“ Man’s Enemy,” new to Melbourne
Royal last Saturday, seems much the same
Andersonian melodrama as usual in the first two
acts, after which it takes a drunk and disorderly
turn for the better. The third act has a rather
convincing smell of beer and spirits, and the
people who don’t get injured or arrested in the
vicinity of a small pub are subsequently let loose
in a doss-house where some of them sleep the sleep
of the unrighteous for fourpence, and the others
throw one another out of the window. A fourth
act is likewise human and murderous, but un-
fortunately the principal villain has a vision
after killing Miss Duggan with a poker, and
this vision, which serves as an illustrated post-
script to the beer-stained narrative, shows Robt.
Inman in the act of getting married to a respect-
able young woman who is supported by 16 brides-
maids of various sizes. The wedding tableau
would have been an error in dramatic tactics
under any conditions. The 16 assorted brides-
maids amount to a lamentable joke. Considering
that it was Inman’s first wife whom the villain
had slain with the fire-iron he might have shown
better taste in visioning the widower’s second
nuptials.
• * * •
Miss Duggan was a bad woman when she
married Inman—at the outset of the drama. She
had a bogus brother Tom, who lured the bride-
groom on to brandy whilst she returned to her
native gambling hell to smoke a cigarette. She
was even wicked enough to enter the holy bonds
in a low-necked dress. Probably she smoked a
cigarette in the vestry. Anyway, she showed no
natural love and affection for Inman when he was
getting ruined by Thomas the Tempter. Further-
more, she helped to put the drink-fiend
on his track again after he had become
sober through extreme poverty. Miss Duggan and
Thomas hired a man named Bill to intoxicate the
stone-broke penitent and throw sulphuric acid
over the girl who loved him, but Bill cast the
vitriol on the wrong female and came to a bad end.
Also Inman got saved from the Downward Path
by the effects of his delirium tremens, and the
bogus brother slew Miss Duggan as aforesaid.
He was quite sober when he did the deed. With
the awful exception of Bill, none of the lurid
sinners in “Man’s Enemy” were addicted to
liquor. They simply went wrong on temperance
principles, and left their punishment to Provi-
dence. One young man who embezzled £lOO
in the first act got no punishment whatever. He
afterwards became a clergyman, that he might
avoid temptation. It is practically impossible for
a clerk in holy orders to rob his employer.
• • • •
Miss Duggan, as the bare-necked bride
from the gambling hell, shows a tendency to im-
prove her elocution. Inman is a satisfactory
feature of the performance, likewise Carey, and
sundry casual inebriates; and Willard, as a
foreign gentleman of dishonorable character, who
lives and dies in one scene only. The orthodox
comic relief, which falls to Bert Bailey’s lot, is a
painful success.
*• * # *■
The imposing musical tumultuousness of
“The Fortune Teller,” likewise its scenery, girls,
uniforms and simple humors, are carrying that
alleged Hungarian comic opera to a successful
issue at Melbourne Princess’s. A Hungarian
patriot complains in the Argus that “ The For-
tune Teller’’ is not a truthful representation of
places, flags, people and things in his beloved
country, but Melbourne seems disposed to put up
with such errors as are hurting his Hungarian
feelings. Granting that Madame Slapoffski, as
Musette the gipsy, is identical with another girl
who couldn’t possibly wear the same com-
plexion, the fact remains that Musette breaks
a plate on the skull of an aged dancing
master. And when an actress smashes a plate
on a fellow-creature’s head she strikes public
criticism dumb. She is entitled to be a white
gipsy if she chooses. She seizes approbation by
the forelock, like a low comedian who rolls down
a flight of stairs. Next to the Musette breakage
of the crockery the most brilliant comedy incident
in the Hungarian opera is perpetrated by a fleet-
ing Hebrew who jumps into a fish-pond to save a
diamond necklace from drowning. Apparently
he sticks in the mud head downwards, and dies a
hero’s death with his legs pointing to the blue
firmament; so the surviving humorists shake a
quantity of hidden treasure from the boots of the
departed.
** * *
“ The Geisha ” revival, at Her Majesty’s,
holds the floor until Monday, the 16th, and mean-
while the tuneful fable of old Japan passes with-
out protest from any local subject of Britain’s
yellow ally, although it looks nearly as libellous
as “The Mikado.” On Tuesday, which is the
Feast of St. Patrick, manager Williamson will
introduce to Australian notice a more or less Irish
comic opera entitled “The Emerald Isle.” The
late Arthur Sullivan signed his honorable name
to the music of “ The Emerald Isle,” and Captain
Basil Hood wrote the book, and J.C.W., who has
never known Sullivan to misfire on this side of
the equator, reckons that the new opera will
probably go off with a bang.
** * »
At the Bijou, the Woods-Williamson Co.
is reviving “ The Gates of Bondage ” for a second
time in Melbourne. This co.’s first production of
“ The Gates ” at the old Alexandra reminded the
present scribe that it was very little different from
“ Ben-My-Chree,” a previous adaptation of “ The
Deemster,” by Wilson Barrett and Hall Caine
And because “Ben-My-Chree” had unfolded its
heavy theatrical tale before “The Gates” came
to hand, nobody wanted the reminder in question.
An excellent stabbing match between two young
men lightens the gloom of this intensely provincial
drama, but for the rest it has a tiresome, tearful
plot of the kind that interests actors only. The
“ powerful” situations have no air of reality about
them, and even if the mutual distresses of Alf.
Boothman and his son, Alf. Woods, were at ali
convincing, it would grow horribly monotonous all
the same. “-Boy Jim,” adapted from Conan
Doyles pugilistic novel, “Rodney Stone,” will
come like balm in Gilead when “ The Gates ” are
shut.
The programme at Melb. Opera House
includes Gracie Emmett and 00. in a new faroe
(not so amusing as the farce that went before),
Seely and West (who play various musical instru-
ments, especially the cornet), Ernest F itts, a
couple of aotive and intelligent female infants
(both named Eileen), and Jacques Inaudi, the
calculator Small Jacques, with the gigantic
head for figures, has outlived all suspicion of
fraud, and is now seriously accepted for just what
he is worth as an entertainer. Some nights
he falls flat for want of questioners, but
as a rule he is called upon to supply cube roots and
fifth quantities and things to solemn-looking
citizens, who have come prepared to gloat
over his discomfiture. Up to now Inaudi has
always vanquished the enemy, but there are times
when the little man’s genius for arithmetic seems
very tired. When they are bowing to the audience
he looks at his comparatively giant colleague as
though he wished they could change places for a
week. It is so hard to be Inaudi and so easy to
be the stout beeswaxed person who chalks the
figures on the board.
** * *
At the Adelaide Tivoli, Fred. Poplar is
appearing as the intoxicated gentleman whose
turn with a dummy friend is already well-known
at the same house as a cinematograph show.
Kitty Wager is also doing well. The Schenk
Brothers have moved on with their balancing
feats, and in their place come Pope and Sayles,
the genuinely black comedians who, in the Tivoli’s
early days, occupied the corner-cliairs until Ade-
laide came to regard them as permanent citizens.
From the Royal the pantomime has passed away,
after two crowded weeks of the Fan Ballet, the
Phantom Guards, and various quaint electric
effects. The great Hayseed family, in town for
the Show, has flocked to Fitzgeralds’ Circus, with
Parrel and the tea-cup cycle whizz.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
“Warn everyone not to touch Arltunga ; bom-
bastic booming; grossly exaggerated.” This message
has been sent to The Bulletin direct from the field, and
is from one of the most experienced explorers and
successful prospectors in Australia. The Bulletin in-
tended to have something to say about the insanity of
the boom which is prevailing in Adelaide and other
centres, but sufficient for the day is the explicit condem-
natory telegram thereof. It must be pointed out, how.
ever, that all the excitement is founded on the highly,
colored report of one Dr. Chewings. It may be pertinent
to ask is this the Dr. Chewings who figured so conspicu-
ously in the early days of Coolgardie, and wrote glowing
reports on all sorts and conditions of alleged mines,
notably the General Gordon ?
• * • •
State revenue returns for February, 1903, so far
as they are available :
Revenue Increase as compared
February, with February,
1903. 1902.
New South Wales .. £1,039,629 £22,041
Westralia (?) .. .. 321,528 20,113
Tasmania .. .. 63,367 2,306
Decrease.
Queensland „ .. 194,867 65,322
Victoria 516,966 109,228
The figures for Westralia are always more or less doubt-
ful until the Government Statistician’s monthly report
comes along, there being a perpetual uncertainty as to
whether State revenue only, or State and Federal re-
venue conjointly, is mentioned in the telegraphic
intelligence. There is reason to believe, however,
that the above statement of the case is correct.
The aggregate result for the five States is, therefore, a
doleful decrease of £120,090. And the situation is not
improved by the fact that the only two States which
show a material increase are also the two which are keep-
ing up a bogus prosperity by lavish and insensate bor-
rowing. New South Wales, but for the increased revenue
arising from the Federal tariff, would show an awful dron
of £212,000. y
So far as the financial year has gone, the posi-
tion is shown hereunder. The Westralian figures are
given only to the end of January, that being the date up
to which the Statistician’s monthly returns extend They
might be brought up to date by adding the telegraphed
figures for February to the Statistician’s returns, but
experience has shown that these and the official figures
somehow seldom quite agree :
Increase com-
pared with
Revenue, corresponding
period last
Westralia (7 months to Jan.) .. £2,269,601 fllsTsos
N.S.W. (8 months to Feb.) .. 7,286,242 200 339
Tasmania (2 months to Feb.) .. 134,872 20 052
S.A. (6 months to Dec.) .. 1,062,624
Queensland (8 months to Feb.) 2,242,298 203*120
Victoria ( „ ).. 4,444,078 228*761
The net result from all the States, so far as the figures
go, is a decrease of £13,997. And when it is reckoned
that there are many miles more railway and tramway and
many more miscellaneous public works to yield revenue
also that out of the diminished revenue there are manv
miles more railway to work and maintain, many more
works of all sorts to keep in repair, and many millions
more debt to pay interest on, the situation is serious
enough. Yet the clap-trappy politician of the G. Reid
order, and the clap-trappy Argus, Telegraph SM
Launceston Examiner, etc., still cadge for a
little fleeting popularity by talking about “oppressive
taxation and d emandi ng the red u otion of duties!
The position as regards expenditure, so far as
anything is known, is as follows ;
.. SS,Si E SSH?iS'S
Queensland (to Feb.) .. 2,242,298 2,219,210 §0!
S. A. (to Dec.) .. .. 1 062 694 loiflino
N.s.w,( t «F.b. ) .. fcgjsss sgsg
New South Wales has also spent £lOB,BOO which has not
been formally charged to the accounts m yet (“ Payments
in Suspense ” it is called), so the real deficit is £796,893..
This is a highly interesting situation for the outside per-
son who merely looks on. ...
Comparing the present situation of the four
States whlah publish expenditure accounts with the
situation of a year ago, things are as follows:
1902. 1903.
lmprov-
e Deficit. ment.
S.A. (to Dec.).. .. £216,668 £153,485 £62,083
' Deteriora-
Surplus. Surplus. tion.
Westralia (to Jan.) .. 249,367 235,458 ]^,909
Queensland (to Feb.).. 38,580 23,088 15,492
Deficit. Deficit.
N.S. Wales (to Feb.).. 226,246 688,093 462,847
The financial year has now progressed so far that it is
possible to form some rough idea of how it may possibly
end. The only possible estimate is based on the assump-
tion that the unexpired portion of the year will produce
results similar to the expired portion. On that basis we
get these results :
Result at Probable Result
June, 1902. at June, 1903.
Deficit. Deficit.
South Australia ... £222,316 £98,150
Queensland .. >. 431,939 455,1/7
N. S. Wales ... 12,749 707,019
Surplus. Surplus.
Westralia .. .. 202,696 178,855
Of course these are mere estimates, and they take no
account of the fact that the deficits would all be vastly
larger but for the charging of ordinary expenditure
to loans and (in the case of N.S. W.) the seizure as revenue
of the rents of unpaid-for properties in the resumed
area of Sydney.
The only loan expenditure returns are these
two: —
Loan Expenditcr*.
8 months to 8 months to
February, February, Decrease
1902. 1903.
Queensland .. £770,004 £643,173 £126,831
N.S. Wales.. 3,113,120 3,505,210 392,090
It is a casual but interesting circumstance that
New South Wales has spent £3,605,210 of loan money on
public works since the beginning of the financial year,
and up to the end of February the revenue from public
works was £71,000 less than for corresponding period of
last year. The blatant Owe’Sullivan is always bragging
that his loan money is well invested and bringing in from
3J to 5 per cent If it brings in 3 per cent, the revenue
from works should show an increase of £70,000 or so,
instead of a heavy decrease. Where is that 3£ to 6 per
cent. ?
* • • •
New Chum : No hope of raising £4O, or even
£4, on such security.
• > • •
The City Mutual Ltfe Assurance Society
(Sydney) has this year done a most excellent and com-
mendable thing—it has wholly written off that always
dubious asset, “ Deferred Instalments of Annual Pre-
miums.” In the following st: tement, in order to put the
year 1902 on the same footing a- its predecessors, this
asset has been disregarded throughout:
Added to
Funds
(Additions
to “ De-
ferred In-
stalments”
Written not in-
Income. Claims. Expenses. off. eluded).
1893.. £32,161 £12,294 1 8,939 £764 £10,164
1894.. 33,388 8,254 11,843 188 13,103
1895.. 36,367 11,706 10,697 2683 11,281
1896.. 38,826 14,615 9,900 2433 11,878
1897.. 41,079 11,460 9,422 996 19,201
1898.. 46,112 20,531 10,396 2082 13,103
1899.. 60,291 22,890 11,023 1581 14,797
1900.. 55,713 24,450 16,265 1950 13,048
1901.. 61,979 19,435 16,997 2209 24,338
1902.. 63,552 31,850 14,717 1555 15,430
The year Just concluded shows the largest revenue in the
society’s record, though the increase on 1901 is very small
by comparison with some previous increases. The accu-
mulated funds are now £238,396, all represented, so far as
can be judged, by genuine assets, the “ Deferred Instal
ments of Annual Premiums ” having, as already men-
tioned, been completely written off.
• • • *
Another good point in the case is that there is
a considerable decrease in expenses, though the rate is
still absurdly heavy. The record is as follows :
Expenses compared with Total Income.
1893 £27 15 11 per cent. 1898 £22 10 11 per cent.
1894 35 9 6 „ 1899 21 18 4 „
1895 29 8 3 „ 1900 29 311 „
1896 25 10 0 „ 1901 25 16 2 „
1897 22 18 9 „ 1902 23 3 2 „
The improvement ought to be larger than it is ; still it if
a very material improvement, and, the prodigal having
returned to some extent, the case calls for a partial slaying
of the fatted calf in strict moderation. The revenue on
which these calculations are based consists of interest,
consideration for annuities, and premiums, less return
premiums and any sums added to the “ Deferred
Premium ” item, or plus any diminution of the “ Deferred
Premium " item.
The interest earnings are above the average,
representing £5 9s. 4d. per cent, per annum on the
average funds for the year. The amounts written off
assets are considerable, though it is well, in such a
matter, to err on the safe side. Allowing for the con-
siderable reduction in expenses, the high interest-rate
earned, the fact that reasonable progress is being made
at building up the funds, and, above all, for the fact that
“Deferred Instalments of Annual Premiums" have
wholly disappeared from among the assets, 1902 must be
regarded as rather a favorable year for the City Mutual
Life Assurance Society.
• « * •
“F.C.”: Anent the coming land values tax.
Ran across a block of 500 acres scrub land within 14 miles
of the G.P.0., Melb., just rented, with the 6-roomed
house and stable thereon, by a friend of mine, at 15s. a
week from the Bank. Seems cheap, but the
hank was glad to let it. Friend makes a living out of
cows, poultry, a pig or two, and taking cattle and horses
on agristment. It is very poor country, but none the less
good fruit-growing land, and dozens of orchardists
would be only too glad to buy 20 and 30-acre blocks, but
—the bank wants £lO an acre, no less.
* • • •
Mori’s Dock and Engineering Co. Limited
(Sydney) concluded, on 31st December, 1902, a half-year
which was somewhat better than the last, but yet not at


/
m
C?*' cr
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
STOCKS in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE Rails, Bridge Rails
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. IN D E NTS. —LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLAS TRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppeu, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
00., whose head-office for N.S.W, is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£<08,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
>■*•*»*
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Price Is. 6d., post free.*
• • * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties olfered
must be subject toinspeotion. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
• * * *
Ernest de Beer, Salisbury Buildings, Bourke-
St., Melbourne, has opened up a fine shipment of
plumbago crucibles. He seems to be progressive in
catering for assayers’ requirements.*
• * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N. S. VV.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of 10jin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
• « * *
It is not generally known that in the treatment
of ore as much ol the valuable minerals is often lost in
the tailings as is saved by the appliances. This is due
in most instances to the inefficient machines used and
the difficulty in saving the fines and slimes. The best
machine to treat the latter classes are Luhrig Vanners.
These machines are in successful daily use in the principal
gold, galena, copper and tin mines in Australia and
Tasmania, proving their superiority over other so-called
slime machines. Messrs W. & J. Lempriere, 506 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne, are the general agents, and full
particulars can be obtained from them.*
• * • *
A. Kozmmsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
• • * •
The Wilfley Concentrator is probably the most
successful piece of mining machinery ever introduced.
In 1897 it was first brought out as a novelty, and in 1902
is regarded as an absolute necessity in the plant of every
mine requiring to concentrate its ores. Over 5000 of the
machines have been sold and upwards of 600 mines have
it in use all over the world, while in the Commonwealth
of Australia above 500 machines are now working on 120
mines. Thirty million tons of pre are being treated
annually by the above tables ; probably more than equal
to the combined ore tonnage of all other makes of con-
centrators. The Wilfley is the only concentrating table
in use at the Great Anaconda Copper Mines, where 431
tables are now at work. Particulars and catalogues can
be obtained on application to the sole Australian
Manufacturers, The Austral Otis Engineering Coy.,
South Melbourne.*
* * * *
City Leader, July, 1902, writes re the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society-Limited “ The Directors
with their characteristic foresight always place security
before interest. Notwithstanding "the difficulty in
obtaining remunerative rates the interest rate has slightly
increased as compared with the previous year.”
• * * *
There is apparently more than nuts in Brazil.
The latest cable received on the subject states that the
Trans-Pacific dredge, in a run of seven days, obtained
60oz. gold. Work is now being delayed by floods. As
the Trans-Pacific Co. hold over 100 miles of river beds, if
much more of it pans out at the same rate, there should
be great joy and some dividends in North Bananaland,
where most of the Trans-Pacific shares are held.
outeer^ltced/Aango,
: Gf\eenA\anco,Cashmerl
X- * MADRAS*- ,f
701 Grocer* and sroreteeperj>, Everywhere.
SCHWEPPES DRY GINCER ALE
Schweppes Mineral Waters
have held the Royal Warrant
continuously since 1834, a
record established by no
other Mineral Water Company
in the world.
all good. As already mentioned in this column, Mort's
Pock Co. has a reserve fund which increases or decreases
now and then without any visible explanation; appa-
rently additions are made to it before the net profits are
declared, and sums deducted from it again for deprecia-
tion. In the following statement profits are shown plus
any increase, or minus any decrease in the reserves
Added
Profits. Dividends. toße- Re-
serves, serves.
Dec., 1899 .. £8,894 6 per cent. = £6872 £-3022 £22,637
June, 1900 .. 7,727 6 „ „ 6000 1727 24,364
Dec., 1900 .. 10,307 8 „ „ 6000 4307 28,671
June,l9ol.. 4.3O6{J£J; s*>} - 27,726
Dec., 1901.. 8,844 6 percent.,, 6000 2844 30,670
June, 1902 .. 2,147 Nil 2147 32,717
_ O flro/PrCf.l2 P- C - »» 3000) a_-
Deo., 1902.. 2,653 | ord 6 4500/ ~ 27,870
The above are the net earnings when the unexplained
increases and decreases of the reserve fund are taken
into account. But if these are left out of consideration
the net profits are as follows :
NET EARNINGS AS SHOWN IN PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
December, 1899 .. £8894 December, 1901 .. £6149
June, 1900.. .'. 7503 June, 1902 .. .. 4410
December, 1900 .. 8493 December, 1902 .. 2859
June, 1901 .. •• 5354
Whichever way the accounts are looked at the position is
none too good just at present.
The Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co. has
£50,000 of preference capital which carries a cumulative
6 per cent, dividend. This dividend was not paid at
June, 1902, though what possible end the management
expected to gain by postponing it, seeing that it must be
paid some day, it is hard to tell. Then at December,
1902, the management decided to pay up the arrears of
preferential share dividend, which was inevitable in any
ease ; to pay the equally inevitable 6 per cent, preference
dividend for the current half-year ; and to give the ordi-
nary shareholders 6 per cent. As the earnings didn’t
nearly cover the £4500 required for the ordinary dividend
the wisdom of this proceeding seems very doubtful. It
has seriously reduced the reserves, and as times are had
and the big lawsuit against the co. isn’t quite settled
even yet, the other party having appealed to the Privy
Council, this looks a very ill-chosen moment to encroach
on the reserves.
• • • •
The Ballarat Gas Co. (Ballarat, Victoria):
Added „
Profits. Dividends. to Re- _
sprvpq serves.
July, 1899.. ' £62,865
Jan., 1900.. £4384 14 per cent. =£4725 62,524
July, 1900.. 5731 14 „ „ 4725 £lOO6 63,530
Jan., 1901.. 4821 14 „ „ 4725 96 63,626
July, 1901.. 5355 14 „ „ 4725 630 64,256
Jan., 1902.. 4476 14 „ „ 4725 64,007
July, 1902.. 5588 14 „ 4725 863 64,870
Jan., 1903.. 4214 14 „ „ 4725 64,359
• • • •
Q. Government, which has just shut down the
Bowen line, has now the satisfaction of learning that the
Townsville Harbour Board is practically insolvent. The
statement re insolvency was publicly made by W. J.
Castling, a leading member of the Board and a shrewd
business man. For some time the Board, in defiance of
the opinion of so eminent an engineer as Sir John
Coode, has been endeavoring to excavate a harbour
in Ross Creek, and the result has been a disas-
trous failure. Some few years ago the famous
Sigma tornado played havoc with the Townsville
brsakwater, and it is highly probable that a similar
gale will some day wipe out the lovely artificial
harbor altogether. It would probably be a public
blessing if such a thing did occur, for then the North
would have to rely on Bowen as its port, and a huge
waste of public money would be prevented. Mean-
time, any extension of the Bowen line which
might enable that port to tap its appropriate
back-country is strictly tabooed , the existing
line is closed down indefinitely, and a local station-
master, with the aid of sundry dismissed officials, is
offering to lease the line from Government at a pound a
week rental. A short time ago Treasurer Cribb suggested
the selling of Government railways to syndicates. Per-
haps the Philp Cabinet is preparing Queensland to take
leasing or selling with a good grace by giving a prepara-
tory dose of railways shut down entirely.
• • * •
The Mutual Store, Limited (Melbourne),
capital now £lOO,OOO paid-up :
Written
Profits. Dividends. off. Reserves.
July, 1900 ..£1967 3£p.c. = £1875 £6344
Jan., 1901 .. 2448 3J „ „ 1875 7417
July, 1901 .. 2062 „ „ 1875 7604
Jan., 1902 .. 2083 3J „ „ 1875 7812
(£12,500 capital written off)
July, 1902 .. 2583 5 „ „ 2500 £6064 2841
Jan., 1903 .. 3214 5 „ „ 2500 147 3408
This is a very material improvement, and the reserves
begin to increase again. In another respect, too, a
material improvement is noticeable, if it can only be
maintained—the liabilities on mortgage and bank over-
draft have been considerably reduced. The record is as
follows :
Owing on Mortgage Interest paid
and Overdraft. during £-year.
July, 1900 .. £64,713 .. £1872
January, 1901 .. 69,047 .. 1925
July, 1901 .. 73,101 .. 1924
January, 1902 .. 72,853 .. 1707
July, 1902 .. 72,445 .. 1679
January, 1903 .. 69,371 .. 1681
Apparently the reduction in the debt wasn’t made early
enough to save anything in the way of interest, but still it
is a gratifying reduction. The worst of the case is that
the liability will probably have climbed back to the old
figure again by six months hence.
• • • •
The Victoria Coffee Palace Go., Limited
:
Added
Written to Re-
Profit. Dividends. off. Re- serves.
serves.
1891 ..£3,575 24 p.c. = £l,OOO £2,737 £404
Deficit.
1892 .. 1,597 2 „ „ 800 1,272 7.1
Reserves.
1893.. 1,034 637 £397 326
1894 .. 988 1,272 42
1895 .. 1,080 —— 636 444 486
1896 . 655 1,000 141
(020,000, being one-half paid-up capital, written off)
1897 .. 690 690 831
Loss.
1898 .. 284 -• 547
Profit.
1899 .. £1,176 4 p.c. = £BOO 376 923
1900.. 1,926 4) „ „ 900 457 569 1,492
1901.. 5 „ „ 1,000 905 2,397
1902.. 1,818 6 „ „ 1,000 715 103 2,500
The drought and the consequent depression is telling on
many institutions ; still the Victoria Coffee Palace shows
gross earnings of rather over 9 per cent. Another £950
has been paid during 1902 off the depressing mortgage
burden, reducing it to £22,850. At the close of 1899 it
stood at £25,750, so respectable progress is being made.
• « • *
B.H. Water Supply Co.’s shareholders will feel
after the very latest report of the
vwe-sjuiljvan s officers, who propose a new scheme for the
town only, leaving the mines to the Co. The mines take
more than three-fourths of all the water the Co. supplies,
?,!l 0 -V K ! , u th . ey pay down to 2a - Per 1000 gallons for it,
while the town pays ss. Alight rainfall has again tern-
porarily blottod out the fear of a water famine.
• • * *
The fly in the ointment with importers who
roo the customs is their inability to make things unplea-
sant for the clerks who rob them. Not long ago a
. , and f?ood and “patriotic" softgoods potentate
taiKeu or prosecuting a clerk for an embezzlement of £2OO
or more. The culprit replied with threats of exposure, and
ine vmtuous firm dismissed him with a gratuity of £4OO.
fn the world of softgoods the way of the transgressor is
power™ —" ” e “ knows something.” Knowledge is
* * * .
A belated report of the Davies-Eranklin
Cycle Co. Limited (Ballarat, Victoria):—
N« „ Adtal ”*“•
£277
in™ Reserves.
•. £1375 10 p.c. =£s4l £834 557
1901 .. 1953 io 636 1317 1874
J-year to
June, 1902 ?60 Nil 760)
New Share Premiums added to Reserves 90 / 2724
The half-year which closed on 30th June is hardly so
profitable as some of its predecessors, £4OO having been
lost by the liquidation of another cycle co. ; still, the
earnings would have more than paid a 20 per cent,
dividend if they hadn’t been wanted for extension pur-
poses. In a casual way it may be mentioned that at 31st
December, 1901, the co. carried forward an undivided
balance of £1477, and in next balance-sheet it brought
forward only £1474. This dropping of a pound or two by
the way looks like slovenly accountancy.
. . * * * *
c ® oard Trade returns show an increase
™ gallons in the import of Australian wine for
190- over 1901. French wines show an almost exactly
equal decrease—2s7,l7o gallons. Dealers state that the
Commonwealth vintages are becoming popular for a sup-
posed proportion of iron contained in them, as well as
for their general full-bodied quality. But the “better-
family trade " —the man who lays down a cellar-
still remains faithful to the old logwood mixture.
* * * .
Lead having shown signs of keeping on the
healthy Blde £l2, the B.H. British has brushed away
the dust and cobwebs of 21 months and started producing
again. The other mines which are still idle are the. Junc-
tion, the North, and the Junction North ; and their
chances of an early start are pretty well indicated hy the
following comparison of the prices at which they were
producing lead (silver being then about 2s. 4d.) in the
latter half of 1900 : British, £lO Us. 6d.; North, £l3 Us.;
Block 14, £l3 15s. 9d. ; Junction and Junction North,
over £l5. Of these, the Junction can now work a
good deal cheaper, and the North a little cheaper, than
at the date of closure.
* • • •
A.J.H.C. (Euriowie) asks: Tin is worth £133
ss. per ton—what is the value per cwt. of ore assaying 80
per cent, metallic tin ? This question is being reserved
for Inaudi on his reappearance in Sydney.
• • m *
Mount Boppy, near Cobar (N.S.W.), is assert-
ing itself as the boss gold mine of the State. Jan. return,
22000 z. from 2200 tons. Recent returns would seem to
indicate that a policy of averaging at an ounce to the ton
is being pursued. Shares quoted in London—buyers,
355. ; no declared sellers. The deep workings are reveal-
ing some high-grade ore. Sydney speculators who are
freely subscribing from £lO to £5O apiece to send pro-
spectors to Oentralia—some of the alleged prospectors
were never on a mine in their lives, and others are noted
for their failure to distinguish between mine and thine—
might take note of the fact that in the Boppy district
there is ample scope for legitimate prospecting work,
with the almost “ certain hope ” of some big things being
found. But, of course, these hills are not far enough
to look green.
• * • .
. On position there is no better area of mining
ground in N.S.W. than the freehold property of the
North Cobar company. It adjoins the Great Cobar, and
the old workings of the latter are within 400 or 500 feet of
the boundary. According to ancient reports there was a
strong lode showing in the end. Some feeble attempts at
prospecting were made in the early days, but for fully 15
years not a pick was put into the ground. The demise of
a large holder, who would not pay calls and who could
not.be compelled to do so, gave other holders an oppor-
tunity to proceed with prospecting work. A shaft was
sunk 500 ft., and a crosscut is now being driven to the
east. This drive is in about 130 ft., and some of the
holders are sanguine enough to expect that the lode will
be cut in less than 50ft. more. Writer’s opinion is that
shaft is much too far to the west, and that 100 ft. at least
will have to be added to the estimated distance to be
driven. The so-called “ buck ” reef, which lies to the east
of the Great Cobar lode—at depth it is reported to be a
splendid copper formation—is plainly discernible on the
surface of North Cobar. It ought to be an infallible indi-
cator of the position of the other lode. Present owners
of North Cobar deserve to strike the lode where it is rich
and wide.
* * • •
Great Cobar Western is a mine—save the mark
—with many interesting records. It is entitled to a book
all to itself, and instructive indeed it would be. It would
be a statement of mining methods beyond comparison, of
shepherding reduced to a fine art, of financial manipu-
lation which would make the most skilful of State
Treasurers green with envy. The cute crowd that con-
trols the show has hitherto had marvellously good luck—
when there has been a lack of available pay ore there
has also been a lack of water, and thus there have been
regular periods of longduration when solitude has reigned
supreme on one of the most valuable properties in the
State. But at last the crowd finds itself in a tight corner.
Tributors recently took the mine in hand, but exhausted
their little capital in patching the boiler and getting the
rattle-trap toy battery in order, and then found they
could not get at payable ore without doing a lot of dead
work. Mine is again idle, and mines’ officials are begin-
ning to talk “nasty.” They are on the right track.
Owners ought to be compelled to work the mine or make
way for others who would willingly do so. Some day
some men of enterprise will get hold of it, and then it
will become something other than the laughing stock of
Cobar. Work in the past has been equivalent to a small
mouse gnawing at a mighty mountain.
• • • *
Barrier mine, Wyalong (N.S.W.): Since
tributors bought this property, about four months
ago, for £2OO, they have won from development work
alone on the new reef which they discovered over £2OOO
worth of gold, and have now started stoping ore which is
described as “ literally bristling with gold.” The Lady
Grace mine, on the same field, is winning wonderfully
rich sulphide ore from a depth of 700 ft. This mine,
which was originally known as the Bantam, adjoins
Neeld’s on the north, and the recent rich discovery
should considerably enhance the value of the pioneers
property.
* • • . •
Brown’s Creek gold mine, near Blayney
(N.S.W.),’is one of the geological curiosities of Australia.
It was purchased some years ago by a French co., which
erected a 60-head heavy stamp mill—the finest battery in
N.S.W.— and sent out a pair of the largest rotary rock
breakers ever made—to crush mud. The plant includes
a compound condensing engine that would almost drive
all the stampers in the State-ran engine which 90 out of
100 of the certificated so-called mining engine-drivers
would not know how to start. As an engineering blunder
this plant is without equal in Australia, and who is
responsible for its erection no one seems to know. Cer-
tain it is that Irwin and Callahan, who were the managers,
were not, as there is correspondence extant to show
that they vigorously protested against such absolutely
unsuitable machinery and appurtenances being erected.
The mill ran for a few weeks only, but long enough to
knock the bottoms out of some of the boxes and to smash
up the co. About 10,000 tons of mud was crushed. The
average of daily assays was about 3dwt. per ton, but the
actual recovery was only about 6s. per ton. Mine has
been idle ever since, but is to be re-worked immediately
under the personal direction of “ Jack ” Roberts, who has
become associated with Frank Gardiner in a partnership
in it. It is expected that it will take some months to un-
water the mine, but meanwhile extensive tests are to be
made upon material from the open cut, to determine
whether some more expeditious and economical method
of treatment than direct battery process can be found.
• • • •
Murchison Associated, Day Dawn (W.A.),
which has been the subject of some wild gambling lately,
is a fifth construction of the old Murchison Gift. Co. has
a nominal capital of £75,000 in 300,000 shares of ss. each.
For the past 18 months work has been proceeding very
slowly on a 24-acre lease known as the Rubicon, situated
about a mile north of the Great Fingall. The reef being
worked is supposed to be the N.W. branch, or leg of the
Fingall reef, the character of the quartz and country
being exactly similar to that of the big mine. The main
shaft is 375 ft. deep, and levels are being driven at the
150 ft. and 350 ft. Till recently the ore has been low
grade, but, at the 150 ft. level, a chute of stone averaging
2oz. per ton has been met with, hence the sudden jump
in scrip, and the subsequent wild fluctuations. It is still
too ear! vto predict the future of the co. The Great Fin-
gall was comparatively low grade in the upper levels,
and, as it is generally believed that this co. is working
the same reef, it is conjectured that there are great
possibilities before it.
• * • •
Great Fingall Consols (W.A.) is increasing its
capital by 25,000 shares, or 10 per cent., for the alleged
purpose of adding 40 head of stamps, which seems a very
peculiar deal in face of recent disclosures. For four
years this co. has held on to 24,000 Sons of Gwalia shares,
which, during that time, have touched £7 apiece, and
for two years it has held 100,000 West Fingalls, which
have been quoted as high as £2 ss. Why did directors
not dispose of part at least of these holdings, and place
co. in a strong position ? The cost of a new 40-head mill,
including engine-power, erection, and all accessories, is
£30,800 according to the Ivanhoe’s experience. Then
why issue 25,000 shares worth £150,000? It is certain
that scrip will have an almost immediate substantial rise
on the strength of the very large increase in output and
divs., which an extra 40 head of stamps will ensure.
• * • m
Croesus South, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), after a very
chequered career of eight years, and after two recon-
structions, has again closed down. The last attempt to
raise the wind was in December, 1901, when 19,983 pref.
shares, bearing 10 per cent, interest, were offered, but
only 9285 placed. Mine appears to be exceptionally well-
situated, as it adjoins the Brown Hill on the north, but,
unfortunately, the rich chute, which outcropped on the
latter mine close to the Croesus boundary, dipped south
and nothing payable has been struck on this property.
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), has bought the
full equipment of the defunct Freemantle Co., Kunanal-
ling, including a ,10-head battery. The plant is being
dismantled, and will be re-erected in its new situation
with all speed, so that another mine will shortly be added
to the regular producers. As here stated, mine is one of
the richest outside Kalgoorlie, and should give a very
good account of itself. A large quantity of stone is al-
ready developed, and, as it is estimated to yield 3oz. per
ton, early and substantial divs. may be looked for.
* * • *
Ida H., Laverton (W.A.), has been closed
down for a month, as the crown of the boiler came down
owing to salt water being used. The boiler is condemned
and a new one has had to be bought. Co. has done
fairly well so far, hut is not looking so well now. The
vendors are still unable to sell their scrip as the co. has
not yet applied to the London Stock Exchanges for a
special settlement for vendors’ shares.
* • • •
Merton’s Reward (W.A.) has been equipped
v/ith a rock-drilling plant, and is to be systematically
opened up at 100, 200 and 300 ft. Hitherto a first-class
system of pig-rooting has been indulged in, and all avail-
able pay-ore has been taken out, the bulk of it by Fred
Merton, and what was left, by his successor, Fred Slorgan.
Before being taken over by Kaufmann, this mine was
sampled over and over by the alleged best experts of
Kalgoorlie, and yet Fred Merton beat the lot.
• • • •
North Kalgurli (W.A.) is still under inspection
by Jim Henderson, late manager of Kalgurli Consols.
The mine, which now includes the Brookman’s Boulder,
has been so handled in the past that it is very difficult to
trace the lodes, or to form any idea whatever of their
values. Holes and drives of all sorts have been put in
promiscuously without any regard to system. A parcel
of 68 tons, taken from the east reef at 600 ft., has just
yielded 4£oz. per ton at the Dapto smelters, but the policy
of rooting out such ore and despatching it at a cost of £7
a ton is more than questionable.
• • • *
f Waihi (M.L.) had a record return for February
— 18.G99 tons of ore producing bullion valued at £53.641.
* • • •
Queensland returns for Feb. : Charters Towers :
20,521 tons, 36,0750 z. ; divs., £27,400 ; calls, £Bl5O. Gym-
pie : 14,430 tons, 14,1970 z. ; divs., £18,000; calls, £6048.
Mount Morgan : 18,631 tons, 10,4900 z.; divs., £12,500.
Total of state for the month shows increases over Feb.,
1902, of 10,2210 z., and of value £32,348.
• * • •
Vesuvius (Charters Towers) is in eruption.
Some remarks in this column about that dreadful mine
enraged the Charters Towers Eagle, which says that The
Bulletin’s Wild Cat Column is an Ass—that it has no
knowledge of practical mining, and that it is more at
home in examining the bottom of a long beer glass than,
a mine plan. Since the Eagle’s screech, Vesuvius shares
have fallen from buyers 245. to sellers 16s. 9d., but—
quoting the reputable N.Q. Register —“ as this is a
speculative stock fluctuations are not much noticed.”
The Wild Cat sees no reason to modify the “ silly para-
graph,” in which it said “ Vesuvius may continue sinking
until Sheol is reached and probably the only gold that
will be seen will be in the spiked forks used by Nicholas,
for toasting mining liars.” An indignant correspondent
writes on the same subject and suggests that the Wild
Cat Column should be put into a sack and pitched over
South Head. He prophecies that when the Wild Cat
Column is “writhing in the tortures of hell” Vesuvius
mine will be paying big divs. At that rate, it is going to
be a remarkably long time before the Vesuvius pays,
dividends.
* * * •
“Flabby Paul” writes: Jordan Creek G.M.
Co. (Geraldton, N.Q.), has to contend with hard luck ;
Co. is trying to erect a “ ten-head ” battery ; has to pay
£3O a ton carriage on machinery from head of tramway, a
distance of 20 miles. So far (in three months) only two
waggons have succeeded in reachingche battery site ; by
frightful roads, over precipitous hills. A surveyor is on
the grbund attempting to bring water from a creek two
miles Away ; battery is to be driven by water power. 500
tons of ore at grass, reputed to go 3Joz. to the ton. Wet
season has set in, making roads worse than before. In all
probability ’twill be at least another six months before
operations can commence.
• * • •
Reported that Ernest Govett, ex-Broken Hill
journalist, and Randolph Bedford, of Everywhere, are
associated in the management of a big lead-zinc mine in
Italy, the former as general manager, and the latter as
assistant. Talking will doubtless be left to Bedford, who
will soon acquire command of all the expletives in the
Piedmontese vocabulary. The average Italian workman
is said to be like the average Australian bullock—no good
unless sworn at violently and persistently-
The newly-appointed Governor of Malta
is another Clarke —Sir Charles Mansfield Clarke,
This outbreak of Clarkes grows bewildering.
One of the inmates of Dunwich (Q.) work-
house is an ex-aide-de-camp to a long-dead
Queensland Governor. Later on he was an
inspector of police, but a run of bad luck brought
him by stages to the vocations of lime-burner,
surveyor’s cook and rouseabout, and last of all to
Dunwich.
Colonel Lynch’s father fought at Eureka
Stockade against England with Lalor —the man
who earned the distinction of having been twice
condemned to death for treason, and then becoming
Speaker of the Victorian Assembly. So Lynch’s
early education didn’t fit him to accurately esti-
mate the consequences of “treason.”
Barr-Smith (partner and brother-in-law of
the late Thomas Elder, the most munificent of
Adelaide citizens), is supposed to have an income
of over £50,000 a year. He has married off all his
daughters and set up all his sons on their own,
and so is accumulating cash rapidly, for his living
expenses do not amount to a tenth of his revenue.
The absui'd anachronism of charging
Lynch with treason and sentencing him to death
(sentence afterwards commuted to the almost as
savage one of perpetual imprisonment) was clearly
shown in the indictment that he,
not having the fear of God in his heart, and being moved
and seduced thereto by the instigation of the Devil, did
aid the enemies of the Queen, ahd by force and arms did
unlawfully, maliciously, and Jraitorously take an oath
of allegiance to the Queen 5 ? enemies, and did take up
arms against her v 'and incite others to do the same.
Eancy a personal, instigating Devil in the 20th
century! .Thereare, by the way, now two Aus-
tralians doomed to end their days in English gaols
—Lynch for fighting with the Boers, and Witton
for fighting against the Boers in a clumsily en-
thusiastic fashion.


David Jones & Co.
“ORIENT” BOOTS.
Special Purchase of American-
made Boots, Black or Brown
Vici Kid,
Price
21/-
By Post
22/-
George & Barrack Sts.
-^.SYDNEY.
HARRINGTON & CO.. LTD.
Photographic Merchants, 66 King St., Sydney ,:93 Queen-st., Brisbane
PhotwrrarhvTh 6 t”?, Po P ular we can make the fascinating Art of
rnotography the better for our business.
THE
THIS IS HOW WE DO IT I
CRACKSHOT
7/6
CAMERA
No Better Value procurable at Three Times the
THE CRACK Postage Extra. Price. SELLING BY THE THOUSAND!
popular size, 3.} x2£ inches. Built of'well-seasonertKvnnr? rac^' ca * Magazine Camera, carrying 6 plates of the
Rap'd Lens 3 Stops, 2 View Finders, ever set Sand In^ n r C ° Vered Si th black Rather Strained material.
h } which 6 Photographs may be made in as many seconds ° US Shutter > Reliable Changing System,
It will take Snapshots, View^GroLs C^ A< r, KSHOT WILL DO.
w S X - I n CHES ' A book ° Pf simple hisuuabus enihE*’ & °'’ and &ives SHA RP. BRILLIANT
supplied with every Camera. p m3tr uctions enabling any novice to make good photos, is
DEVELOPING AND PRINTING OllTcn* „ , .
?f e not S nbt,! 1 n at h! ria f 1S ’ Viz -’ Plates ’ Che micals, Dish es °Pane r *Lamr/**!? Si ‘« ple instructions and containing all
If not obtainable from your dealer or storekeeperorderdirect P ’ tC- ’ f ° r P roducin g finished Photographs.
Send for Copy o New Illustrated Catalogue. Post. Fry, p RICE 5/6, Postage Extra.
SOCIETY
[?]oo[?]
[?]
A small woman, with a baby and a black
eye, lately put a question to the Bench, at Rich-
mond (Vic.), that practically knocked nine cen-
turies of British civilisation into a cocked hat.
Her husband, who was responsible for the black
eye aforesaid, was given “ .£5 or a month,” and
elected to “take it out.” Then the small woman
stepped up to the Bench and pitifully asked who
was to keep her and her children while her hus-
band was in gaol. The Bench glared, cogitated,
and finally blurted out, “Dunno,” or words to
that effect. And the same answer has been given
for ages by'the Law, .Judges, Parliaments, Reform
Leagues, even the A.N.A. “Dunno!” A simple
question is put in a casual sort of way by a small,
unimportant woman, and the combined wisdom of
all Australia, with that of the whole British
Empire on top of it, cannot discover an answer.
Yet Germany has solved the problem. That out-
of-date, derided country makes such men as these
toil at remunerative occupations in gaol; maintains
AN UNSECURED CREDITOR.
LAWYER (who has just prepared insolvent's schedule): “Now, about the fee, I
don't want to be too rough on you; we'll call it ten guineas."
INSOLVENT (cheerfully): “ That's all right; I won't quarrel over a pound or
two; just you stick it in with the rest of the debts."
them in a strictly.thrifty manner, and devotes the
proceeds of their industry to maintaining the wife
and children. Seems as if Australia is too beastly
proud to learn from Germany.
• • • *
Maoriland is suffering from an epidemic of
sneak thievery. Quite a swarm of men wander
about, knocking at doors ; when the doors are
opened they give a military salute and inquire,
“Does Mr. Brown live here?” If there is no
answer to the knock, the ex-hero from South
Africa reconnoitres through the window, and then
climbs in and loots. Almost every member of the
sneak-thief brigade has the military salute habit.
Lowther Clarke, Melbourne’s new Anglican
bishop, has already managed to offend some of
his holy people. It is alleged that on the day of
his enthronement he took what is known as the
“eastward position” at the Communion. Anumber
of his clergy and laity were shocked at this ter-
rible “eastward position,” and are to address a
protest to the bishop. There is supposed to be
some unholy connection between the “ eastward
position ” and the R.C. church ceremonials, and
if poor Clarke doesn’t be careful he will have the
whole of the yellow brigade down upon him like a
billion tons of sulphur.
* • • •
The enthronement (“ My kingdom is not
of this world”) of Melbourne’s new Bishop,
Lowther Clarke, was truly typical of Christianity,
with its respectable but stodgy followers, and
their respectable but uncomely wives and
daughters. Even the House of God itself was
placarded “Admission by ticket only,” “Blue
tickets this way,” and so forth; and the eternal
flashlight camera fiend must needs throw in his
cheap imitation of the light that streams from the
Great White Throne. Already the new prelate
is being advertised as “ fully in touch ” with the
working classes of Lancashire and Yorkshire. The
Melbourne worker grins sardonically.
• • • •
South Australia seems likely to add one
more to its series of unsolved mysteries. According
to the available evidence old man Ninnes went to
bed with a lighted lamp and a bottle of brandy,
and during the night he blazed up so effectually
that he died. There are stories about another
man who, Mrs. Ninnes declared, wasn’t about the
house at the time of the fire; also a servant says
the other man was there, and that both he and
Mrs. Ninnes asked her not to mention his
presence; and there is the energetic swear of the
other man that the servant’s evidence is untrue.
Also there is an untraceable report that old man
Ninnes blazed up just in time to prevent him
altering his will —in fact, the air is full of rumors.
Meanwhile the coroner’s jury gives it up.
• • * •
A Prahran (Vic.) Bench of Shallows has
fined a man for leading an unlighted bicycle at
night! What is the penalty in Prahran for lead-
ing an unlighted dog ?
••• * »
Writes “ H.H.” :
Re the advt. from The Queen : “ Wanted, country
home with lady for red poodle bitch," one need not go so
far as England
for that sort
of eccentri-
city. Know a
dear old
maiden lady
in Hobart who
rented a
whole house
as a conval-
escent-home
for one of her
pampered
poodles, who
‘‘required
change of
scene.” The
butcher was
requested to
leave Ponto’s
daily allow-
ance of mut-
ton chops,
and a servant
was told off
to cook them
and wait up-
on the in-
valid. Also,
several poor
relations were
engaged t o
take turns in
calling upon
poor Ponto to
“ cheer him
up” for being
suspected of
“ sickening
for some
dread fu 1
disease,” his
canine chums
were not
allowed to
visit him. A
“ good thing”
was spoiled
by one con-
scientious
idiot who
cheered up
Ponto by wal-
loping hi m
around the
garden in-
stead of read-
ing to him in
the kitchen,
nad so saved
him from a lingering death. Same dear old lady’s
horse grew so fat that she wouldn’t allow him to be
ridden, but led him around the streets herself, just for
exercise. For the look of the thing she always wore a
riding-habit when towing the moke around.
• » • *
Smith and Jones, civil servants, got a cir-
cular from their respective departments asking
them to state their religion. Smith told Jones
he would decline to state his, as a matter of prin-
ciple. Jones said, “I’m not ashamed of my
religion. L’llgivemine.” SpakoSmith: “That’s
not the point. I’m not ashamed of mj' back,
but I’m condemned if I’ll show it to either Pope
Dill Macky or Cardinal Moran.”
An instance of the brutal squalor of
Salvarmy administration. In
country town two young girls,
“captain” and “lieutenant,”
had charge of the local
“Army,” consisting of
three kanakas, a Chow,
and the town grocer,
who backslided into
drink regularly
every fortnight.
Rent of hall and
cottage (16s. week-
ly) had to be col-
lected before the
girls had a penny
for food; first
charge on collec-
tions being 10 per
cent, towards divi-
sional officer’s
salary. The captain
often had to draw
on the scant savings
of her servant-girl
days, when she was
more sensible than
saved, to keep star-
vation away from
herself and mate.
It was absolutely
necessary to barri-
cade their doors at
night to prevent the
“saved” Kanakas
from getting into their
room to discuss abstruse
points in theology ; and
also to keep the kitchen
fire burning at night to
stop the grocer from get-
ting down the chimney to
report that he had again
backslidden. The Chow
convert used to tap the
window at intervals dur-
ing the night with “lilly
plesent for missie. Pleasee
open doo’.” And the Army-
headquarters’ annual contribution towards keep-
ing the doors locked was only .£1 for uniform.
THINGS MATRIMONIAL.
There is a painfully noticeable unwillingness on the
part of the young men now-a-days to take up the respon-
sibilities of married life. As this young country requires
population, the present state of affairs, etc .-Extract
from the conventional speech reported with clocklike regu-
larity by the “ Great Australian Dailies.”
Owing to the disastrous drought, and the excess of sup-
ply over demand in the labor market, thousands of
families are in financial distress; while hundreds are
actually starving.— The Voice of Things as They Are.
Flour, 30s. per bag ; beef, Bd‘. per lb.; potatoes, £5 per
ton ; milk, Bd. per quart; butter, Is. 9d. per lb.; eggs
almost unprocurable. —A few items from the Com-
mercial Columns of the Siieol Advertiser pubi s ted in
the Far Back.
Marry in haste and repent at leisure.— An old and a
wise saying 1 have heard somewhere before.
The great fiatural resources of this country only need
development to make us the greatest and wealthiest
nation in the world. With a larger population to open
up and develop, etc.— Extract fto a the usual after-
dinner speech of t ie gentlema i who doesn’t know what he
is talking about.
Geelong, the prayerful ought-to-have-been
capital of Victoria, is to have a colossal statue of
Queen Victoria, modelled by J S Davie Tt
represents Victoria at the time of her jubilee in
1887, and the little old lady stands Bft. in height
The figure is posed with graceful dignity and
the face, composed and strong, looks out with a
ge S nerajio„rof Geeliei wm'unilk of Victoria
The statue Twill p/t res Pects.
reflect pnormnns nhiui V Greatness, and
reflect enormous physical credit on her descen-
statues ofFd ward 6 VTT 6 C ?,T S f ° r feting 9ft.
statues of .Edward VII. and his son George, the
P°P ulat i°n will accept the reigning
family as a race of giants, and revere the Him-
penal connection accordingly.
THE MEN WHO ARE PAID TO LOSE.
FIRST RACING CYCLIST : “ I’d like to see Bosher
win this race."
SECOND DITTO : “ That's a dirty thing to say.
He never done you no harm."
A love of the dramatic has been the
undoing of more men than one, noted and
otherwise, and it was certainly responsible for the
miscarrying of the plans of John Ball in Bendigo
Criminal Court, t’other day. Ball said that,
“ Rather than go to Pentridge for another term,
I’ll cut my throat.” Then he produced a knife
and out his throat in the dock. Of course, he
failed—a perfect heap of constables fell on him
before he was half through with the job. If he
had said nothing he might have cut his throat in
his cell at leisure without two tons of fatted con-
stable throwing itself upon him. Now his yearn-
ing for dramatic effect has caused him to lose his
knife and his opportunity, and he has gained
nothing but a casual newspaper paragraph.
Sunday morning in Fiji as described by
the Rev. R. W. Nolan, Methodist missionary:
My brother missionary, Mr. Burton, and I were in-
formed that the Catholics were preparing to sav mass in
our Protestant church. We jumped out of bed,‘hurriedly
dressed ourselves, and ran with ail haste to the cnurch.
We got there just in time to see the candles alight and
two priests putting on their robes. Many of the natives
had assembled, and the service was about to begin. My
pulpit was turned upside down, and arranged as an altar.
Mr. Danks inquired what all this meant. In the mean-
time I gathered the people at the other end of the church
and started singing a hymn from our hymn-book at the
top of my voice. The natives joined in the hymn, and
we, by this means, got a start with our service. We con-
tinued this service while the priests looked on. They
dared not interfere with the service, and by this means
we prevented them from holding theirs. The priests
admitted the game was up and put out the lights.
When Governor Maogregor took charge of British
New Guinea one of the first things he did was to
mark out missionary spheres and forbid, under
penalties, the missioner of one sphere crossing
into the territory of another. Something like this
seems to be necessary in missionary lands
generally. Only for public opinion and the police
force even Australia would need to be so parried
out.
BOY LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The cruel years that lead through so much sin and sorrow
Have taken all my boyhood’s trust, the simple faith
That held one woman’s hand and, holding, feared no
morrow
And would have held it to th; very gates of Heath !
Ah! Boyish love! the jest of earth, the greybeards
scorning!—
Yet not for all the light and lore of after years
Would I have lost the flush of that first golden morning,
Those love-tossed nights, that passion, and those tears !
WILL H. OGILVIE.
TO “ DIMTLES.”
I’m dying for you nearly,
And yet I cannot dare
(Ah, me ! I love you dearly !)
The matrimonial snare,
With prices pointing queerly.
Like demons of despair.
If blindly I have fooled you
(Oh ! Cupid seldom sees !)
If, Dimples—if I schooled you
In passing pleasantries;
And if, my dear, I gulled you—
Ah, you’ll forgive me, please?
Far better to forsake you
I-i easy, early life
Than, thinking not,.to take you
Through starving years of strife j
Far kinder than to make you
A wan, repentant wife.
Go, seek some true-heart fellows
Who richer are than I
Fll never inure be jealous
(The old, untruthful cry !)
Till hard existence mellows
In kinder years, good-bye!
*.s.w.
GILROONEY.
REFLECTIONS.
The sun never sets on the British empire ; ergo, said
sun never goes down on a Britisher’s wrath.
Accept everything in the spirit in which it is given—
even water in whisky.
Give good advice, that your son may see the folly of
your bad example.
Will oats grow best by gaslight.
A punter is one who, after backing four winners and
?P en ,., ln £> ” ls tram-fare on a beer, knows a dead cert for
the fifth event.
A man who believes in loans would pawn his boots to
get his socks dauaed.
Live, eat, sleep, drink, think, work and play well, that
thy days may be less like the hell some peopie make for
themselves in evading an alleged purgatory.
Slow horses and fast women send their patrons to the
well, a dog always knows when he’s had enough.
one comes as I gaze into the empty glass—Were
the barmaid less anxious to put a good head on it, a
longer neck would accrue and more beer be sold thereby.
JIMMY S.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable.-gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every; attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney. !V
SW
GrO TO HELL-
MiOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, bub
If you want real good stamps, seud to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
I
SILVER
STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia’s
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
The usual stone-throwing mystery tran-
spired at the Glebe (Sydney) t’other day, and, on
being solved, was found to have eventuated in the
same old way. A local resident found stones,
children’s tops, lumps of coal, half bars of soap,
etc., crashing through his windows atodd moments,
but for a time could find no sign of the perpetra-
tor. On the police being called in the bombard-
ment ceased. The officer, however, understood
stone-throwing mysteries, and interviewed the
small household drudge, who owned up to the job
with tears, but could give no explanation of her
conduct. The desire of the small slavey to pitch
household utensils around is as unaccountable as
it is persistent.
• • • •
That luckless woman who has apparently
been so near to coming in for a large share of the
Tyson estate, but who has twice been biffed out
of court by reason of a lack of certainty about her
pedigree, represents Tantalus in real life. On the
stage anybody—especially the villain—can prove
his pedigree in five minutes. He gets a copy of
the birth certificate of Ferdinand Bad egg, and the
fact of his having that in his hand proves that he
is Ferdinand Badegg ; the policeman looks at the
document and hands over the estate at once. But
in real life the law considers the plaintiff
coldly over the rim of its spectacles, and asks her
to prove that she is the person mentioned
in the document. Anyone can buy Isaac’s
birth certificate very cheaply; it is in the
Bible. But the possession of a Bible
doesn’t prove that you are Isaac. In real
life plaintiff has to get barrow-loads of affidavits
from the oldest inhabitant, and to prove by old
letters that the lady mentioned in the certificate
had the same strawberry mark on her back that
plaintiff possesses; and then the Law lifts its
bleared eye from the documents and decides that
another barrow-load of corroboration is required.
It isn’t at all like the dramatist’s off-hand way of
throwing huge estates around two or three times
a day.
• • • •
Sydney has been following the example of
Melbourne, and gathering in a few of the fortune-
telling brigade on a charge of getting money by
false pretences. They are mostly a pitiably
ignorant crowd who seem to have taken to reveal-
ing the past, present and future because they
didn’t know enough to take in washing. One of
the gang who told fortunes by the planets, and
also expounded the state of the patient’s health,
prescribed for him and treated him by massage,
admitted in court that she didn’t know what a
planet was and had never heard the name of one.
She merely babbled about them as part of her
stock-in-trade This seems a remarkable case of
escaping information. Even a charwoman often
chances to hear something about a planet at least
once in her life.
AN ATTACK IN FRONT.
BALLET SKIRT: “ Why does that Thompson woman
keep her head turned away from the johnny,
and that grin on her face?"
FEATHER KILT: “She took her teeth out in the
dressing-room, and I hid them."
A correspondent (surely a profane man)
to the Age suggests as a means to make the com-
munion cup more healthy:—
To provide each communicant with a straw through
which the “ mouthful of wine ” could be absorbed. The
straws could afterwards be “ burned with fire." This
method would be clean, inexpensive and expeditious, and
should offend no susceptibilities. We have recent
priestly and kingly precedent for the rehearsing of
ceremonies, and a little private rehearsal would enable
the veriest novice to become expert in the use of the
straw.
It suggests a weird picture of a congregation
bringing its own straw, and chewing it medita-
tively, or wearing it behind its ear while waiting
events.
• • • *
The non-maturing of Majah Randal Carey’s
title, or something, is going to be responsible for
dire and grave happenings. Of late, Sydney
Dairy Telegraph has been carefully dropping the
hardly-earned handles of politicians, and twice
within one week the public has read that
“Mr.” John See did something or other,
and that "Mr.” Joseph Ward, of M.L., has
been over here; while several dimmer public
lights have also been decapitated seemingly
with malice aforethought. Soon _ the public
will pick up its daily penn’orth in fear and
trembling lest it should suddenly strike something
like this: “Mr. Wettin yesterday opened the
British Parliament with a brilliant speech
(obviously written by somebody else) which he
delivered in a thick voice with a strong German
accent. , . . England must be in sore straits
indeed when she is compelled to go to foreign
countries (and more particularly, to Germany) for
her rulers.”
Some extracts from
a long, neatly-written
narrative which
reached Tub Bul-
letin through
the post last
week:—
On Friday
evening the
members of
the Blank
Club, comprised
of former resi-
dents of Asterisk,
met at Somebody’s
Hotel, the occasion
being the annual
meeting and smoke
night. The following
office - bearers were
elected for the ensuing
year (16 names of office-
bearers). The toasts
honored were &c., &c.,
including the hon. sec.,
whose untiring efforts
helped in a great mea-
sure to bring about the
pleasant evening which
was spent. The follow-
ing gentlemen contributed to the evening’s enjoyment
(eight names). _ A very enjoyable evening was brought to
a close by the singing of the National Anthem.— Bulletin,
please insert.
When such documents as this come to hand, The
Bulletin bows its head and fears that it has lived
in vain.
* • * »
The recent very successful raid by the Yic.
’tecs on the horde of fortune-telling harpies that
infest Melbourne and suburbs is something worth
copying in other cities. The batch (20 or so) run
in contained a rare variety of imposters, from the
shrivelled and slatternly hags—almost all called
. Madame ” —who should have been dropped
into the nearest waterhole on general prin-
ciples, to a great hulking Ram Jam Sammy,
with tin medals and brass brooches stuck all over
him. Women and girls shivered in the gorgeous
presence of this hoodlum, and he treated his
clients to all sorts of indignities, according to
their degrees of foolishness. Ram was the most
arrogant minion in the crowd, and did about the
best business as a consequence. He used to spit
and scoff copiously in presence of his clients, aud
when telling the detective’s fortune—and doing it
very badly—he dropped off to sleep. An ordinary
client would be expected, in such cases, to wait
patiently and not breathe too loud for fear of
waking Ram Jam Sam, but the ’tec shook his
nigger up contemptuously and took him away by
the ear.
♦ * * •
Some months back a good-looking married
woman cleared out with another man from a back-
blox town. They settled at Broken Hill, and the
substitute got a job
in the mines. He also
got leaded, and died.
The lady then returned
to her lawful owner,
and was forgiven. They
went rabbitting, and
li f e went smoothly un-
til a teamster camped
by the gate. She took
a sudden interest in
teamsters, and when
this one left the boun-
dary fence she went
too as off-sider. Some
miles down the road
an accident put him
in the hospital for a
long spell. She re-
turned to her lawful
owner, and was for-
given some more. They
then got a married
couple’s billet on a
station where the only
other man was the
manager. Two months
of peace followed ; and
the lady was missing some more. She’d gone off
with the manager, who’d got another billet.
“Never mind, Jack,” a friend said, consolingly;
“you jes’wait quietly; she’ll come back to you
ag’in when he dies.” But this time the lawful
owner threatens to be unforgiving.
• • * •
After scaring the liquor crowd nearly to
death, the Pump party in Maoriland has drawn a
long breath and started to fight the foe a few
more rounds. Down in the whisky province,
Otago, they have declared that they are going to
sweep the last remaining beers off the earth. The
announcement was made a day or two prior to the
date fixed for hearing the petition of Bung to
have the poll in Dunedin —whereby the hotels are
to be reduced —declared invalid. The temperance
people’s lawyers turned up with a cubic mile of
evidence, but Bung discovered that he had no
proof to offer, and that, in effect, he was not sure
why he ever tried to upset the poll at all. From
Dunedin also comes the news that the free lunch
is going to become one of the “ has-beens.”
The gift feed and the gratis oyster are
going to melt gradually and beautifully
out of sight, like the sunlight of an autumn
day. As the man who consumes the unpaid-for
sausage-roll and oyster is never by any chance
a prohibitionist, it is hard to see where
Bung’s diplomacy comes in. Perhaps the
idea is to placate the restaurant-keepers,
who hate to see a man buy a small beer,
retire to a corner of the bar and engulf enough
provisions to make him fat and arrogant, and who
voted No-License as a protest against the free
lunches. One way and another, Bung is getting
a harried look, and the coat-tails of his mental
clothing are frayed, and he has a wild glare in his
eye, and firmly believes that he is the modern
Ishmael. He has been so badly rattled that he is
almost ready to throw up the sponge, the fight,
and the whole busted universe in a writhing mass,
utter a large, delirious yell and take to the bush.
• « • *
Sydney University’s grand ideas of cele-
brating the jubilee of the institution came to an
UPWARDS.
LAWYER : “ Well, you can only get a divorce
from your husband for desertion when lei’s
gone three years or upwards.”
SHE: “ Well, he’s not gone three years, and Ids
not gone upwards; so, I suppose, there’s
nothing to be done."
inglorious end with the finish of the junketting.
It was proposed to raise a permanent mark of the
great event in the shape of buildings to be used
for clubs, &c., and to attain this end presidents,
committees, and sub-committees appointed them-
selves. But these bodies first began to adjourn
their meetings, then postpone the adjournments,
then to forego the postponements, and finally
dropped the whole thing. It went the same way
as our permanent grief about the death of Queen
Victoria, and our perpetual remembrance of the
services of our Farm-burning Contingents, and
many other perpetual things which fell like a
drop of water on the hob of Below, and fizzed
there for a second, and then were seen no more.
Now that the lethal chamber is at work fft
Moore Park, Sydney, there should be no longer
hesitation about getting rid of all dogs that rush at
passers-by. The rush of a dog, particularly if the
animal be above medium size, should be held to
be an assault. It is all very well for the owner to
say, “It is only his way; he barks and jumps
around, but never bites.” If the owner barked
and jumped around he would be justly suppressed,
and his dog should be similarly treated.
•*' • •
Melbourne City Council abattoirs are
located on the Saltwater River, in the midst of
the noxious trades area. To make quite sure that
the meat will have all reasonable chances of con-
tamination, the council has had erected next the
abattoirs a dessicator, where it destroys
All sorts of refuse, including stinking fish, bad oysters,
and decaying rabbits, which are rejected at the city fish*
markets. Loads of this manure material are taken from
the city to the desiccator every week, and the vehicles in
which it is carried are literally smothered with flies,
myriads of which, it is safe to assume, after feeding on
the filth, transfer their attentions and the germs that
have attached themselves to their bodies to the con-
tiguous killing pens. Not far from the abattoirs lie heaps
of refuse known as “ hashmagandy,” a kind of semi-solid
malodorous matter, really the residuum of the offal from
boiling-down vats, &c.,; and although this is kept
covered and enclosed as much as possible, it constitutes an
additional danger.
Yet a Melbourne man assured this paper, the
other day, that the meat-supply of his city was
“almost perfect.” Had he ever inspected the
“ hashmagandy ” ?
• * • *
After seriously considering the ways of
Parson M'Cullagh, of Sydney, and his supersti-
tious following of faith-healers, this paper would
like to suggest the addition of some new tenets to
their creed. The M’Cullagh crowd professes to
believe in healing the human body by prayer
instead of sending for a doctor, and as the human
body often recovers without either prayer or a
doctor, it is impossible to always verify the sect’s
pretensions. But if the sect will add to its belief
a faith in healing the window by prayer without
the aid of a glazier, and the boots without the
assistance of a bootmaker, that will be a square
and honest test. Boots never recover by their
own volition, nor do broken windows or pants
that have begun to go. But when a trial of the
faith under conditions like these is suggested, the
sects always get out of the difficulty by denounc-
ing the proposition as “blasphemous.”
• » • *
J.F.D.*’ as to old-age-pensions payments
in N.S.W.
I live a few doors from the southern branch of the Bank
of N.S.W., corner of George and Regent streets, and the
scrambling, bustling crowd of played-out humanity that
stood around its doors a few days back from 9 a.m. till
3 p.m. was a disgrace to a civilised community. Poor
old hobbling wretches, barely able to stand, arrived in
cabs, and then had to sit for hours on the kerbstone
before the crush slackened. One old dame informed me
that she dreaded the pay-day coming with the thoughts
of that push and scramble and long wait. Surely an
extra clerk or two could be put on at busy paying offices
for the day, and the pension given decently and
humanely.
“ 00100 ” supplies a tale of horror :
Re “ Cheetah ’’ (B. 28/2/’O3) and incompetent medicos.
I know a case where a Vic. country doctor opened a man
for an appendicitis operation, and, after gouging around
in the hole he had dug, had to close it up without finding
the appendix. The patient developed dangerous
symptoms, and his friends had him removed to Mel-
bourne in an almost moribund condition. One of the Mel-
bourne high-priced surgeons re-opened the patient, and
found the wound made by the other doctor in a very foul
state from pure uncleanliness on the part of the operator.
The Melbourne man found the appendix in the very hole
dug by the first man, although that flesher had actually
proposed sinking a fresh shaft in the patient. He also
discovered a piece of gauze that No. 1 had inadvertently
•ewed up in the unfortunate patient’s anatomy. The
victim survived, and is again recovering strength, and he
himself told me the story. If he had died of the wound
made by No. 1, it is highly improbable that the finding of
the foreign matter in the wound, although it were dis-
closed by the autopsy, would ever have been heard of.
Medical men stick together as close as wax so long as
offences committed are mere trivial delinquencies such as
killing a patient. But should a practitioner offend against
the awful etiquette of the profession by saving a man’s
life when a brother practitioner was killing him, then let
the offender look out for squalls.
• • • »
From Melb. Argus (4/3/’O3) •
An emaciated young woman, carrying a very young
baby, Thispresentedaterrible spectacle; its handsand feet
were skeleton-like, the nails growing beyond the fingers
like claws. Its eyes were glassy, its skin almost trans-
parent, and its face sunken and haggard. Another child,
aged two years, was fearfully emaciated and ghastly
white, its limbs being merely skin and bone, and its eyes,
owing to their sunken sockets, appearing extraordinarily
large. All three were manifestly dying of starvation.
This isn’t taken from a report of a Chinese or
Indian missionary, but what was actually seen—it
was a case of wife desertion, as usual—at Mel-
bourne City Court, at the very moment when
Bishop Clarke was being enthroned in an odor of
sanctity and an atmosphere of respectability. Had
it not been .for the constable who found the above
trio, they would have been dead in a very few
days.
• • • •
A lad of 18 giving evidence against a
woman at Melb. Criminal Court, stated that he
had known the prisoner for 100 years—ever since
her husband died, in fact. Cross-examined as to
how long it was since the husband died the witness
said “six weeks,’’after which he gave “twelve
years ” as the length of time the woman had been
a widow. Finally the amusing youth pleaded
guilty to the nick-name of Silly Tony. In a
district where he didn t happen to have become
known as Silly Tony his evidence might have
Ilxnged somebody.
* * * *
“It was generally servant-girls and
ignorant persons that were deluded by fortune-
tellers,” said Crown Prosecutor Harris in a case
last week. “ Servant-girls and ignorant persons ! ”
And people like Mr. Harris wonder that girls
refuse to become domestic servants and have gibes
like that thrown at them. The statement was
foolish as well as insulting. Two or three fortune-
tellers, at all events, find their best patrons
among the well-to-do Sydneyites.
WE ATHER-BOUND.
PARSON: “ You didn’t come to church this morn-
ing, Johnnie?”
JOHNNIE: “No, sir. Please, sir, it was too wet,
sir, so I went out bird-nestin’, sir.”
Australian labor-unions are seeking to
introduce the “union-label” from America to
this continent. The system provides that em-
ployers of union-labor shall have issued to them
by the labor council special labels to mark their
goods ; union workmen are then urged to patronise
only the union-label articles. The first effort is to
be made with the breweries, though how the label
will be persuaded to stick to draught beer it is
hard to say.
* * • *
The estate of Wivenhoe, Camden (N.S.W.),
is in the market for sale. It was long the home
of Charles Cowper, and was presented to him by
public subscription.
WRITTEN IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rich days and flushing night*
Breathe warm and pass ;
But weary stem the trees,
And faint the grass.
Por every man his home,
Aud mine for me :
The water-willowed town
Beyond the sea.
tLU
A.K.C.


iSF” In the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS -
KLEINERT'S HOOKON
"■■““Correct Hose Supporter
To Wear with the NEW FORM CORSET.
■*s
Sold only at the Best Shops.
DENTAL SURGEON, 43 Oxford-st., Sydney
(between Mark toys and Riley-st.). HIGH CLASS
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S.,
DENTISTRY at lowest prices. Guaranteed absolutely painless extractions hv in ■
success. Beautiful and perfect-fittin- atmospheric suction Kreat
comfort and natural appearance. Coraline irum plates without anrinJ ™ C£^ n wearer ease,
most recent, up-to-date plate for moun t in| teeth. P An 'u' r il k?es am ho l lT" E ‘^' C Gum Coraline is the
that it defies detection. For comfort, strength and lightness Z cheeksdl3a W ea . r - tis so natural
Coraline is perfectly tasteless, and remains wholesome and mire n’ti S v Be i f 5 ver> ' 1 kjn f r Previously introduced.
*
«r
°
A CO^
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable
Recommended by “ Lancet."
, 9 , McBRATNEY (Wholesale only),
Melb - 389 George-st., Sydney.
sty
|isf\
RAINCOATS.
“CRAtfENETTES”
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, March 10, 1903.
My Dear Arini,—
There are likely to be some startling political
developments from the clash of woman’s ignorance
with man’s guile in affairs of State. One recent
Sydney suburban meeting of women, convened to
assist the cause of Liberal Reform, was faced by
a proposal from one lady, who had evidently been
sitting at the feet of an unwise shepherd, that
what the country needed as a cure for the drought
and the borrowing policy was the dismissal of all
Roman Catholics from employment. She had
this glowing idea in proper resolution form too,
and seemed hurt when it didn’t find prompt
acceptance. I haven’t heard on the other side, as
yet, of a lady with the front name of Veronica
proposing as her political panacea that anybody
refusing to keep St. Patrick’s Day holy should be
executed without the option of a fine; but possibly
that proposition is also being got ready.
The dearth of the capable servant is becoming
as severe as the dearth of grass in the west. Spite
of hard times, the serving damsel known as a
“ general ”is scarcer than ever. For consolation,
missuses might read H. G. Wells’ optimistic
“ Anticipations”—the chapter dealing with “ Cer-
tain Social Relations.” After sketching the
average home of 1950, the author says the manage
will, in all probability, be servantless for two very
excellent reasons. First, because it will not want
servants; and second, because it would not get
them if it did:
The only good servants of to-day are the chil-
dren of servants, or the children of the old labor
base of the social pyramid. Machinery has smashed
that base and scattered its fragments. The tra-
dition of self-respecting inferiority is being utterly
destroyed in the world. In the community of the United
States no native-born race of white servants has ap-
peared, and the emancipated young negress degenerates
towards the impossible. . , . Such servants as wealth
will retain will be About as really loyal and servile as
hotel waiters and on the same terms.
The average house of the future that Mr. Wells
anticipates will be a practically automatic flat.
The great proportion of the servants’ duties of
to-day consists of drudgery that the stupidities of
our present methods of house construction entail,
and which the sanely-constructed house of the
future will avoid. There will be no stair climb-
I gather. Many of the “situations wanted ”
in Sydney advts. .stipulate for no stairs and a gas
stove. Wells writes contemptuously of the fact
that in existing houses the skirting-board meets
the floor at right angles, and so makes sweeping
twice as troublesome. The use of tarnishable
metals, the lack of warming appliances (which
makes for a mighty fetching and carrying of
coal), the awful “washing-up” (when it should
be. possible to immerse all dirty tableware in a
suitable solvent and then run that off for the
articles to dry) are items discussed. Ingenuity
of sanitary fittings should reduce the work “up-
stairs ” to bed-making only, and, says the man
writer. “ a bed does not take five minutes to
make, ” and goes on :
There remains the oooking. To-day cooking with the
incidentals is a very serious business, the coaling, the
ashes, the horrible moments of heat, the hot black things
to handle, the silly vague recipes, the want of neat
apparatus. One always imagines a cook working with
crimsoned face and bare blackened arms. But with a
neat little range heated by electricity and provided with
thermometers, with quite oontrollable temperatures and
proper heat screens, cooking might very easily be made a
pleasant amusement for invalid ladies.
The houses of the future, by the way, will have no
ohimneys. None will be required and the roof
will be an addition to the garden space of the
home. Will some Sydney speculator experiment
with the erection of a series of labor-saving houses ?
Before I visited Hobart I used to hear that the
native-born men left it as soon as they came to
years of. discretion, and so caused an overplus of
old maids. Society and sub-society, and the
fringe of society (there are as many cliques as
hills), is frightfully over-girled; but to walk
through the city streets after night-fall you’d
think that. Hobart was over-manned. It is as
crowded with men every night as Sydney is on a
Saturday evening. Silent, orderly, smoking,
decently-dressed, empty-eyed, the chosen vessels
loaf along the centre of their wide, clean, traffic-
less streets, or stand hundreds deep round a street
singer or Salvation ranter.
The forenoon is the time to see the Hobart
damsel, representative of all the laminations of its
nice society. She swings along quickly, swaying
one arm ; the hand of the other holds her long-
tailed frock tight around her slender figure. She
is mostly slender, and mezzo in coloring, and
carries herself prettily, and has a longer stride
than the Sydney girl, but, in spite of her soft
climate and skies—“ the hollow of God’s hand ”
she looks older than her years, and ages soon.
Mental stagnation, I suppose, is the cause.
There’s a curious primness about her. She is
reminiscent, of some of Mary Wilkins’s New
England girls, who. spend their lives sewing
rag mats and making “sass” of whatever
fruit is in season. And as she hasn’t
got possession of her own identity or ego,
she seems to be in deadly fear that the clique
above her—the clique she lives in hope of entering
—will say that she’s not a lady, and will dis-
continue its (supercilious) recognition when she
and it meet on the Anglican church door-mat.
Then, of course, the abiding fear that “ the men
won’t come ” must be a crow-footing thing in this
sweet land of no outlook.
In New York or London the domination of
clique over clique, the wriggles and heart-burnings
of the society-aspirant, are pathetic—but under-
standable. In this little flower-starred slumber
land, where there is really no class, and where
grandfathers are not as numerous as tourists, these
things are to the onlooker muoh funnier than
seeing a stout gentleman sit down where thejre is
no chair.
A strange feature of the Dolores enthusiasm is
that her most ardent admirers are women. Mdft
certainly do get excited, and wave their hats and
brandish their walking-sticks in a dangerous man-
ner when she sings, but her own sex goes quite
mad. Women claw at her, trying to kiss her
hands, and snatch fragments of her bouquets and
drapery as souvenirs. Said that Mdlle. has been
offered a lucrative permanent appointment in the
State Opera House, Vienna. Vienna is said to be
a charming place to live in and to contain the
finest brass bands in the world.
Miss Linda O’Hara’s concert at Sydney
Y.M.O.A. hall last week revealed a robust young
lady of about seventeen, with her ’tween-shades
hair hanging over a dainty frock of white. Her
ohest development indicated great lung power,
and her singing revealed a contralto voice of con-
siderable quality in the middle register. There
were flashes of beautiful tone and organ-like
vibrations, which indicated that properpreparation
should bnng to light a vein of rich melody. But
the singer is only a girl, and her voice as yet is
quite und v eloped.
The liov Dunstan (Sydney) having filed his
schedule (debts £3106, assets £74) shows two
widows in the list of creditors; one heads it with a
debt of £316 65., a seoond is close up with £250.
The widow’s mite always does suffer when the
church gets into difficulties. One pathetic-look-
ingentry is “Alfred Fathers, sexton, £55.” It may
not be so in this case, but the popular idea of a
sexton is a grey-haired old man supporting his
declining days with great difficulty by looking
after “ interments. ” I hope that the sexton to
whom Mr. Dunstan owes £55 is younger and more
prosperous than the usual type.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The real’Varsity clique was conspicuous by
its absence t’other Saturday, when the University
Extension Board treated suburban ‘persons’ and
others to tea and twaddle. It wouldn’t do, you
know, for best professional butter to spread
itself on minnows, who dabble in Extension shal-
lows —the presumptuous tadpoles might pose as
possessors of real University culture if they
weren’t kept in their places. Ungrudging old
Prof. Laurie, one of the exceptions, squired a
galaxy of girls to the tea-rooin. On the platform,
Father Bevan prattled of ‘ Mediaeval Universi-
ties,’ but the girls near me drowned his voice,
tittering over one of their number’s chronicles of
the lecturer’s last jaunt abroad. ’Board ship, so
the narrator averred, there was a fire-scare. Out
burst the startled Bevan from his berth, with all
his hoary head in curl-papers.
After the addresses, visitors went over the
affiliated colleges. ‘Trinity,’ the Anglican fold,
a plain, old building, wrapped tenderly in ivy, is
the fairest to look upon, in my humble opinion,
‘Ormond,’ built and endowed by rich Presby-
terians, is almost too ornate and palatial, though
its dining-hall, with carved, high-backed chairs,
dais, etc., all solid oak, is a noble room. Wesleyan
‘Queen’s,’barrack-like without and shabby within,
nevertheless offers more opportunities to its in-
mates of putting on flesh than the neighboring
institutions, so say sharp-set students. The
master of ‘ Queen’s ’ is an Englishman, while
‘ Ormond ’ and ‘ Trinity ’ are ruled by Scot and
Irishman respectively. John Bull, as an epicure,
can give points to Paddy and Sandy and beat
them easily.
“The State Governor’s charming daughter is
preparing to decamp to Marchesi for further
lessons in singing. Miss Clarke does not go with
Melba—her plans are made independently of her
whilom friend. Eighteen months will be the term
of tuition. ‘ I need quite 18 months more work—
and I love Marchesi.' There is some talk of Miss
Mars Buckley taking the trip with Miss Clarke.
The two have been close eh urns.
“ The dame of Pastor Bevan has set going a
series of petticoat Congresses, with tea and cake
accompaniments, to train the woman voter in the
way she should go. Light is to be thrown on
political conundrums by well-seasoned speakers;
and domestics and fashionables are to be invited to
be enlightened. Mrs. Bevan is an ornamental
lady, and does some parish good in a queenly way,
beneath an inspiring head drape of real lace.
. “ With Miss Mary Clarke and her brother, the
lieutenant, back from the war, the Cliveden widow
has all her children round her again. Now that
her two sons have ‘done time’ in the army and
law respectively, their mother wants them to
settle down in Australia.
“The new Anglican Bishop, following the
example of his predecessors, preached his first
regular sermon last Sunday morning (March Bth)
in St. James’ Church, formerly the Anglican pro-
cathedral. Sixty years ago, when this old church
was new, it loomed large, standing in the midst
of paddocks and visible from the decks of all
the vessels nearing Melbourne. But its career as
a landmark has been over for many a day, and for
long enough it has ranked only as a half-forgotten
ecclesiastical relic, poked away in Little Collins-st.,
dwarfed and overshadowed by such buildings as
those of James Service and Co., St. James Building
Society, the Australian Club and Menzies’ Hotel.
Poor old shrine, not only are its best days over,
but its worst are still to come, if there be any
truth in the rumor that the Church, unable to
trouble further with its unprofitable old member,
means to sell it for commercial purposes.
Bishop Lowther Clarke is a fine big, person-
able P^T son > as mu ?b like our Prime Minister as a
i-Ooy Barton profile, wavy, gray hair growing
low on his forehead, and projecting lips can make
him. In height, aotivity, and genial smile, the
promoted rector has all the beet of it. A parson
evidently keeps his looks better on tea and buns
than a politician on turkey and fizz. Otherwise
the new prelate has a pleasant voice* and a tund
of common-sensical platitudes, and eyes set close
together, hinting at North Country caution and
canny shrewdness. However, for all his pawky
reserve, some of his new clergy have already found
him out to the extent of feeling themselves im-
pelled to address “His Lordship” a “respectful
remonstrance” re the “Eastward Position, as-
sumed by him when dispensing the Communion.
Poor man ! his troubles are beginning soon. The
new Bishop looks handsome, dignified, and
healthy. He will probably prove sensible, mas-
terful, and hardworking, but so far he doesn t
impress hearers as eloquent, deep, or bookish.
However, one can’t have everything. Poor old
Shepherd Goe was a kindly saint. His clergy
were fond but not proud of the gentle ancient,
whose appearance made those who came to pray
retire to smile. Bishop Moorehouse went down
well with the public, but subordinates felt no
calling to raise a tabernacle to their high-handed
boss. As for the Bishopess, parsons who felt her
yoke testify that ‘ ’twere better to be a dog and
bay the moon ’ than a curate in the Moorehouse
era.
‘ ‘ The new Bishopess, Mrs. Lowther Clarke, is
a bright-faced, little matron with the sort of
sunny smile that buttons up her eyes with dimples
if even the ghost of a joke steals into notice.
Hubby announced, plump and plain, at the
Mayor’s reception, that those who intend the
little lady’s life in Melbourne to be one long com-
mittee-meeting, must kill her lord to encompass
their designs.
“ From a matrimonial point of view the Durbar
seems to be panning out better, so far as Aus-
tralians are concerned, than did the Common-
wealth’s own reception of royalty. Experts re-
gard as a very promising streak of ‘color’ the
engagement of Miss Mary Clarke, of Cliveden, to
the Hon. Captain Lindsay, third son of the Earl
of Crawford, at present one of the Curzon’s
aides. The bride-elect, whose betrothal was
formally and authoritatively announced in the
Melb. daily papers, soon as she got from Delhi, is
a slight, blonde, retiring young lady, far more like
her paternal forbears, the easy-going, taciturn,
unceremonious Clarkes, than her energetic, zest-
ful mother, the widow of Cliveden.
‘ ‘ Of other wonderful engagements reported as
of Durbar origin, who has faith to spare for them?
The persistent hints thrown out by one haughty
clan as to the capture of a prize general with long,
gory S’Afrioan records, by the beauty of the
family, yet await authentication.
“A popular item at recent A.N.A. competi-
tions was the Melba singing contest, the diva
haying promised £7 to the amateur earning most
points inarthreefold test, which included (1) selec-
tion from opera or oratorio, (2) Australian ballad,
(3) British ditto. The result of the struggle
proved rather disappointing, the award falling to
a soprano, personally prosaic and vocall v mediocre,
though correct as to time and tune. Enthusiastic
‘Natives’ had pictured to themselves the winner
of Melba’s prize as some sensational young singer,
crowned with promise and haloed with possibili-
ties. Alas, although there was material on hand
not unlike the stuff such dreams were made of,
these warblers at the tests were sometimes guilty
of inaccuracy, prone in pathetic passages to
funeral-march their tempo, d la the Amy Castles
rendering of * Home, Sweet Home’; and that’s how
the favorites were beat!
“At the competitions, interest also flared up
round the unpublished, original musical works by
Australian composers. Fifty were sent in, most
of them creditable. Chief among the native-born
composers who tried their luck were Theodore
Tourrier, of Kew (Vic.), and' Horace Gleeson,
also of Melb., who shared first prize and also won
second prize and honorable mention, respec-
tively. Tourrier’s song, ‘ The Phantom,’
suffered, I thought, from a thunderous bass-
grumbling in the piano accompaniment, at the
mention of a ‘ pair of feet in slippers neat,’
the property of the phantom, which haunted
the composer. Light, treble friskings would
seem more in keeping with the ‘ blue-eyed sprite ’
referred to. Now, if the ‘phantom’ of the song
had been a fat German spook, with creaky boots
and asthmatic wheeze, basso pianoforte rumblings
would describe his ‘ atmosphere ’ to a T.
A certain advantageous post goes begging
because of the terrible fear all women entertain
towards the strenuous lady who offers it. The
first popular candidate to have her claims recog-
nised, and herself rushed in impetuous delight by
the employer, was said by the whole of Society to
be built by Nature and adorned by Fashion for
the post, and Toorak hurrahed her. Hardly had
it done so when one of the temper bombs of
the strenuous lady burst overhead, and when the
atmosphere was thoroughly cleared, the debris
swept aside, and the damage surveyed, the novice
was found to be missing from her new post.
“Polo excitement reached a high pitch on Fri-
day—Gymkhana day. The size of the crowd was
amazing. All the stations throughout Victoria
must have had their representatives on the spot
Toorak, in grand array, stormed the course—and
Kooyong provides a special vantage ground for
dress display. Who could speak of a diminished
wool-clip in the face of such extravagant displays ?
“General Hutton brought the Austrian Excel-
lency, Baron von Something, and presented him to
Governor Clarke. The negotiation of civilities
was carried on first in apologetic English, then in
wooden-legged German, and finally in French
Miss Clarke supplying the latter. The Governor
left talk with the notable foreigner in her hands.
On all sides one collided with returned coronators
and Durbarites. But not one instance of new
ideas in dress could I notice. The Misses Mary
Clarke, Brodribb, Grimwade, and a dozen others,
showed up in nondescript styles. The Rajahs are
voted by Miss Clarke —who was in the midst of
them, thanks to an energetic fianc£—to be most
charming and picturesque princes, but bores to
hold converse with.
“The Dianas’Bending-race provided the keenest
excitement of the day. A stranger variety of
riders, considering they were all of about co-
relative social degree, could not be imagined
outside a Folly ball-room set. Some wore linen
coats and bowlers, others the inky habit and
hard hat; a few struck a compromise between
warm weather and ordinary riding garments,
while one youngster came out in the popular
Honolulu garb, with the orthodox helmet
skewered to her wispisli hair. Mrs. Everard
Browne had backed out of the contest at the last
moment. Miss Buckley made the best display
for perfect accoutrements and showy mount, but
Miss Millicent Fairbairn, with her fair hair
plaited under her neat boxer, and an attempt at
the horsemanship ‘ that witches the world,’ cut a
finer figure. The race was won by Mrs. Johnson.
“For that bumper farewell-house, last Thurs-
day, Dolores dressed her plump person in a
glistening black, mildly illuminated with corals.
A deep coarse lace cape was a further concession
to the prevailing craze for relief. Facing a record
audience, after nearly two years’ acquaintance
with Australia, Dolores smiled a message of warm
thanks. The crowd had toiletted as if for a Cup
garden-party; albeit, rain and dust alternated
outside. One fine dress was that of Miss T.
Robertson —a Western girl of fortune. A
‘ Geisha ’ party thumped and raged for encores as
only sister artistes do when one of their number
farewells for matrimonial or other reasons. Miss
Carrie Moore, amongst them, looked more
brownish after a Sydney scorching, and added to
the sultry impression by a wintry garb of brown
frieze and warm red.
“Croquet has come to stay. Time was when
only curates and other mild ladies knew anything
of the game, but now the smart set patronises the
sport. At Kooyong, the other day, the first big
game of the season came off, and a great rally of
she-sports mustered to see it.
“Senator Dobson’s wife went to the Big Smoke
some months ago for her health’s sake. Now Tas-
manians are advised that the convalescent is
energetically negotiating for tbe starting of an
Austral Club in the cold country. Mrs. Dobson’s
name is associated with successes. She has ambi-
tion and will, and is a clear and fluent speaker.
So probably this new oiub—foolish as the idea
seems—will be formed.
“ A second trial of ‘ The Fortune Teller ’
emphasises the tiresome exuberance of the quick-
change character. Madame Slap, is so convinced
of the necessity for youthfulness that her forceful
legs become almost an irritation in their friski-
ness. Madame Slap, doesn t look a sweet-and-20
heroine, so what’s the use of giving three busy
selves more work? Less skittishness and a re-
trenchment of smile are wanted. t
“ The women who haunt the massage parlors
for the removal of freckles should take heart.
John Oliver Hobbes, in her last book, says com-
posedly of one of her clever characters :
She sat well in the sunshine, which showed her nose
and cheek almost powdered with small freckles. They
were not unbecoming.
“ Time and chance were forward in helping a
Pentridge inmate (in for a miscarried financial
scheme) to cultivate three or four languages during
his years a 3 a Government guest. He came out
t’other day, looking bright, handsome and
elegant, his tongue, ’tis said, bristling with foreign
languages. He secured charge of the library
during his term, gained an excellent knowledge of
French, Italian and German, amassed a store of
literary lore, and grew famous at his post for
marvellous feats of memory. It was a pleasure
and a delight to have so fine a gentleman and
scholar on the premises, said fellow lodgers and
officials.
“A wandering scribe, who has been some years
abroad, turns her face once more toward Mel-
bourne. ‘ The Big Smoke,’ writes a Melb. petti*
coated philosopher pitching her tent there just
now, ‘is the world’s bright, busy, enchanting,
glorious centre, but you want pluck, push, cash,
and wholesale resolution to get on. London is
life at its best—but Australia is easier to exist in.’
A Collin B-st. photographer shows a whole case
of panels, which are a healthful sign of the times.
They represent Society brides and their new
babe3—quite in monotonous Madonna poses. The
women getting fitted in a swagger dress den,
adjacent to the studio, couldn’t hear the usual
petticoat gossip, the other day, for the babel in
the photographer’s. ‘That new baby craze,’
apologised Mistress Mode. ‘Do you know, Mrs.
I had been here for a matter of five years,
and I never heard a baby’s cry in that studio in
ail that time. But for the last few months the
screaming has been awful, and my clients com-
r a u U ii .^ n less maternity goes out of fashion again
I shall have to change my quarters.’
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Few men have a better knowledge of the
working of the Lands Acts than has Land Agent
W. N.. Willis, of 21 Bligh-street. Payment by
results is not only reasonable but also novel.*
The sun never sets on the British empire.
It is a good old boast, and quit© true, but as the
sun also never sets on the territory of Holland,
Portugal, Russia, the United States, France or
.Denmark, the boast isn’t nearly so exclusive as is
generally supposed.
A big Canadian man at present in Sydney :
The people here growl about the tariff. Win , includ-
« lt 8 only , J ' ust over 15 P er cent. Call that
a tariff t There are no Freetraders in our country : we’ve
got a low tariff party and a high tariff party. The low
tariff party supports an all-round impost of 30 per cent.
anything up to 75 per cent.


SUMMER FAG.
You need a Tonic for this wretched Summer Fag—and the very best Summer Tonic is Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People.
They are the only Tonic that will banish all this weakness and weariness —headaches, backaches,
languor, and despondency.
Every dose makes new, rich blood—tones your nerves, sharpens your appetite, stimulates your liver,
and gives you energy and color.
You want that—and the only Tonic that can give it to you is Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Exhausted Sydney Man made strong.— “ The Summer’s heat and continual office work made me
quite weak and exhausted,” says John Christen, Esq., whose private address is “ Westeria,” 9 Bligh-street, Sydney.
“My nerves were so affected that I couldn’t sleep. After tossing about in bed for hours, I would get up next morning as
weak as a kitten. My appetite left me, too, and breakfast almost made me sick. Ordinary tonics were no good to me.
I was quite ill and worn-out when I was recommended to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I bought a supply from Messrs.
Pattinson & Co., and, after taking half a box, I felt ever so much better. Two boxes enriched my blood, braced up my
nerves, and gave me back all my old energy. I am positive that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have the most invigorating
tonic properties of any medicine on the market.”
Price 2s. !)d. per box from Chemists and Storekeepers. Imitations are dangerous.
Dr Williams’ Pink Pills contain no poison. They cannot harm the youngest child or the most delicate woman.
»
,
aopic
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The estate of the late Arthur Hodgson, of
Queensland, has been proved for probate purposes
at £l4 short of £60,000.
Labor members Holman and Hughes have
passed the final examination in law, and will pre-
sently be called to the N.S.W. Bar.
Arthur Griffith (N.S.W.), M.L.A., is
putting in part of the Parliamentary vacation
organising for the Labor party in Tasmania.
The late Queensland Minister for Lands,
William Bligh Henry O’Connell, was great-grand-
son of Governor Bligh and related to O’Connell
the Irish Liberator.
Squatter A. B. Murray, a member of the
first S.A. Parliament, recently celebrated his
87th year at Magill (Adelaide). There are a few
other survivors of that House.
A. R. Addison, M.L.C. (S. Aus.), is
a miller, racehorse owner, lay preacher of the
Church of England, and a politician of a kind.
Also, the State’s champion revolver shot.
Cardinal Moran hotly resents candid
advice. Senator R. E. O’Connor tried to prevent
him putting his foot into it over the Federal Con-
vention elections, and has not been forgiven yet.
Those who know say that Cardinal Moran’s
secretary is responsible for leading him into most
of his blunders. Yec Dr. O’Haran has the knowing
nose of the departed “Wally ; ” he hasn’t his
nous.
The late C. G. Duffy wrote in his history
of the Young Ireland party that the best of the
Irish patriots died prematurely from “suppressed
emotion.” Duffy lived to be 86, so evidently he
didn't suppress his emotion.
Recently-deceased pulpiteer Parker, of
London City Temple, claimed to be a good
minister for business fnen. And he was a good
business man for a minister, since he left property
valued at £23,623 —a nice, substantial camel to
lump through Heaven’s needle-eye.
The head of Victoria’s Thomas Bent is
visibly swelling. As he was passing along to his
office, the other day, a solitary voice, somewhere
at the back of an unemployed crowd, said
“Cabbages ! ” Bent refused, shortly afterwards,
to receive a deputation from those who had “so
insulted him.” Now, suppose the voice had
called out “Bank!” or “Building society!” or
“ Land shindykit ! ”
There has been a remarkable series of
happenings among the Lands Ministers of Aus-
tralia during the last few months. Larry O’Lough-
lin (S.A.) was retrenched under the terms of the
Parliamentary Economies Act; M’Kenzie (Vic.)
had to resign ; Crick (N.S.W.) was nearly smashed
up by a boulder while visiting Maoriland; Dr.
Jamison (W. A.) was called away from Australia
to the Transvaal; and now O’Connell (Q) has
died.
THE CONVERSION OF THE HEATHEN.
(Scene near Lillie Bulke-stleet.)
“Australia is a land of topsy-turveydom.”— Gag from various
books of travel.
Recently at Surry Hills. Sydney, his
parishioneis presented the Rev. R. O. Todd with
a hand-bag in which to carry his sermons. The
gift bore the initials on the outside in large gilt
letters, “R.O.T” Stated that the parson has
decided to use the bag for carrying the parochial
Council’s minute-book.
Lands Minister O’Connell, dead in Brisbane
at 52, crowded many occupations into his life.
Aide-de-camp to his uncle, Acting-Governor
Maurice O’Connell, at 22, he afterwards became
banker, merchant, alderman, inspector of Poly-
nesians, immigration agent, storekeeper, member
of Parliament, and Minister of the Crown.
The Adelaide friends of Federal Customs
Minister Kingston are grieved because his physical
strength appears to be wearing out. They notice
the change from his olden vigor all the more
because they have seen so little of him lately.
Politically he is stronger in S.A. than ever before,
and no opponent could come near him on a popu-
lar vote.
Chief Justice Darley’s extra six months’
holiday excites comment. When Windeyer asked
for an extension Premier Reid’s reply was, “ Half-
pay or retire.” In Darley’s case there is no plea
of ill-health ; in fact, he bluntly says his health
is good enough to serve the British Government
as member of a South African Commission.
Should N.S.W. pay a man in such circumstances ?
Jas. Howard, who died at Edi (Vic.)
recently in his 102nd year, arrived in Sydney in
’2B, and after serving as shepherd for the Messrs.
Faithful in the north-eastern part of Victoria for
a number of years, tried digging at Bendigo, and
then returned to shepherding. In the old country
he distinguished himself as a pugilist ; he remem-
bered seeing, in his 14th year, the troops leaving
his native county to take part 'n the Waterloo
campaign.
Retired Fijian missionary Frederick
Langham, on whom the University of Glasgow
t’other day conferred the honorary degree of D. D.,
left Castlemaine (Vic.) for the islands in 58, and
remained there for over 30 years. Most of the
natives were cannibals in the early period of
Langham’s ministrations. They did not then
waste time in burning Bibles —their great anxiety
was not to burn the preacher but just to brown
him -nicely, as witness the fate of Rev. Baker (in
’67), whose top boots were the despair of the
Fijian cook, that chef mistaking them for part of
his body.
, S £ dne y D.T. makes a careful correction in
the Drought Relief Fund list:
T T w!n,° nt .w.^ i ? n acknowledged on the 28th ult. as " J.
J.’ T V Walke/flO 10s 8110111(1 haVe been Seila tor and Mrs.
Suggestive of that frequent correction :
th® names of the guests at Mrs. Smith’s party,
yesterday, that of Mrs. Jones was unfortunately omitted.
Swanston, recently deceased in
I iji after a residence of nearly 50 years, was
thoroughly Fijianised. He married a handsome
longa woman, and though his daughters were
educated in Sydney, he never cared to visit
civilised parts himself, regarding the life as too
artificial. He was Minister of Native Affairs in
the whitey-brown Cakobau-Thurston-Woods
Govt, of 1872-3.-
Dear B. : Re McMahon and Chiniquy’s
picture. The McMahon, of Bungendore, is dead
some years, and is not likely to call around with a
contradiction. I was skull-driving at Bungendore
at the time the joke was perpetrated, and stayed
at the Marshal’s pub.—he claimed relationship
with Marshal McMahon. The poor old fellow
died, of a broken heart, across a favorite daughter’s
grave. He was an honester man than (name of
the lass honest person suppressed for fear of libel).
—Yaerum.
A rumor to the effect that Willoughby
Andrew was released, or about to be released,
from prison excited a good deal of speculation last
week among those acquainted with him in the old
time. Andrew, it may be remembered, shot
Bartlett, a draper, 13 years ago, owing to a
dispute, about a dishonored cheque. He was an
eccentric man, and during the first five or six
years in gaol continued to be eccentric, but has
lately changed greatly for the better. He stood
for Parliament for Molong on one occasion, but
Dr. Ross easily topped the poll.
“ Kiwi ’’ on the King of Maoriland
About Premier Seddon’s close-fi9tedness (B. 7/2/’O3)
I have no hesitation in criticising our Boss ; but Tiib
Bulletin would be the first to ask for fair.play, and let
us be fair to Seddon. Unscrupulous and vain as he is in
many ways, Seddon has a heart afte • all, and it is quite
unfair to call him stingy. It is certainly true that he is
frugal, that he doesn’t entertain, and that he insists,
apart from his public duties, on living, while in Wel-
lington, as a private person of strong domestic pro-
pensities ; and all honor to him. In the matter of plain
living and domestic qualities Seddon sets an example to
be admired and followed ; in fact, in that respect he re-
mains a democrat heart and soul.
Elijah Do wie, when his workmen of Zion
City struck work because no pay was forthcoming,
went out before them and flapped bis purple
wings and urged them “to have faith and con-
tinue their labors.” And one brutal man of toil
took his pipe out of his mouth and spat reflec-
tively, and remarked that that “wasn’t good
enough.” Then no thunderbolt fell from Heaven,
and no chariot of fire appeared ; not even a bear
rushed from the forest, nor did a plague of rattle-
snakes smite the man. He left in peace—left
whilst Elijah 11. fluttered his ineffectual, though
beautiful, purple wings feebly like a soaked
rooster.
Parson Joseph Nicholson,
who is making a fight against the
legalising of the totalisator in
Victoria, put, up a similar fight in
South Australia. Joseph has offered
to debate the question with any
member of the v.R.C. In his way
Joseph is a character. He flies
around Melbourne on a bike with
the tails of his clerical coat pinned
up at the back to prevent them
becoming entangled in the works.
When he dismounts, his coat gives
one the idea that its owner has
lately been interviewing a fierce
bull-pup, which attacked him in
the rear. A good story of Joseph
and his old dad goes the rounds in
South Australia. Joseph and dad
happened to be widowers together.
Dad lived a lonely life in Adelaide,
while Joseph did likewise in the
country. But Joseph had a house-
keeper to look after him. She was
a good housekeeper and Joseph
liked her much. He did not like
her as much as he did someone
else, and eventually he took a
second wife. Whereupon he wrote
to his father commending his house-
keeper and casually remarking that
he believed she’d make the old man as good a wife
shed made him a housekeeper. The old man
immediately secured Joseph’s left-over house-
keeper, and from being housekeeper to Joseph’s
dad she soon became Joseph s step-mother,
Joseph proved a good judge of women, for both
marriages panned out happily.
David Murray, the Adelaide warehouse-
man, just returned from London (making his 22nd
trip there), started a retail business with brother
William with next to nothing. Now he owns a
good portion of the main streets of Adelaide and
Broken Hill, and has businesses all over Aus-
tralia.
SLEEPING.
PATRIARCH : “ Let me sec, how many sons have
you? ”
MAN FROM THE COVE: “Four alive—and one
in Geelong.”
Barristers are so numerous in Sydney that
even its litigious people can’t keep them em-
ployed. One has. lately opened a tobacconist’s
shop, and says he is doing well.
Rev. Tremayne Dunstan’s list of creditors
v- ix . • ,
,s curious reading. Dunstan is the pastor who
scandalised that sanctuary of Sydney piety Pitt-
street Congregational Church, by bolting to Frisco
from his financial difficulties. He returned, the
other day to face the music ; and the creditors
who play the tune are, to a great extent, highly
respectable and confiding ‘ pillars ’ from whom
our beloved pastor had borrowed money. The
list includes printers, jewellers, a masseur, a
restaurateur, and so on, down to a gentleman and
a sexton. or after exhausting these,
Dunstan had recourse to “financiers” of the
Booker class, and then things happened. Assets,
£74 ; liabilities, £3106.
tt , ,tj 11 wt an j
Morning Herald (Perth, W.A.) summed
up Yes-No Reid neatly: —
Mr. Reid can always amuse an audience, and audiences
ahvays like to be amused but at the same time-with a
Zi o, v"sr£:
or are supposed to be, a serious matter, and many, if not
the majority, are inclined to distrust the political leader
who is not serious. Possibly the feeling of the general
public towards its entertainers is a relic of feudal days,
when a professional jester-a slave-was a necessary part
of a noble s household. . . . Life must have been dull at
times in those picturesque but comfortless castles, and
the fool helped to make the time pass more pleasantlj\
But he was still a fool and slave, and in station he was
thus considered far below those who condescended to be
amused by him.
“ Bathurst Burr ” remininisces :
If Bulletin par. (14/3/’O3) be true, and Supt. Garvin
has been recommended by Mr. Fosbery for the N.S.W.
Inspector-Generalship of Police, there will be many sore
heads among the veterans of the police foroe, especially
in the West. Writer did a deal of official business with
the Bathurst police during the reigns of Capt- Battye,
a'raw rVcmit, known Tommy," on whom the old hands
used to put many practical jokes. “ Tommy ” came on late
in Morrissett’s or early in Lydiard’s reign—over 40 years
ago. Ben Hall’s gang was skirmishing round at the time,
and it was great fun for the Bathurstonians to see Sergeant
Waters, who was well known at the old Bathurst gaol,
Vale Creek Road in search of the ’rangers, who before
night would be reported as having stuck up travellers on
the Sofala road—the opposite direction to that which the
wily Waters had taken. A great dread of .infernal
machines existed at that time, and considerable com-
addres n sedT a “Tre U Office o r n i e n PoficeJtothurst,”
and marked “ strictly private," was delivered by the
postman at the barracks. Underwood laid it on his table
waiting Supt. Lydiard’s instructions, and presently
Gainger came in, picked the box up and began to turn it
turn somettff
Finally Billy Dargin, the tracker, was persuaded to carry
it into the barrack yard, and Tommy Garvin, at the fourth
shot vith an axe, split open the dreadful box and out ran
a badly-scared mouse ! Certainly it isn’t every man who
would attack a suspected infernal-machine with an axe.
“ Offside-Mac ” : Maoriland’s Hone
Heke, M.H.R., grand-nephew of the
old warrior who razed the British flag,
staff at the Bay of Islands, speaks
English almost faultlessly when he
does speak it. Sometimes he
doesn’t. One evening, when
an attenuated Opposition
was trying to stonewall
a Government measure
till after midnight, so
that no new business
could come on, Hone
stood up, and, ad-
dressing the Speaker
in Maori, said that
he was a member of
the native race, and
required the services
of an interpreter.
When the House re-
covered itself, Seddon
remarked brusquely
that it was all bosh;
everybody knew that
Heke could Hilk Eng-
lish. He was merely
wasting time. Still
speaking in Maori, the
native appealed to the
Speaker, and Maurice
O’Rorke replied that Heke
was quite within his rights.
There was no native inter-
preter in the House, and
members are not allowed to
act. It was a wet night, but
Seddon sent messengers and
rang telephones, and raged up
and down and to and fro, seeking
for a linguist to attend the Maori.
Heke stood with never a smile lighting
his face whilst Seddon fumed, and the House
fairly rippled. Supper was finished, with things
still as they were, and Heke still stationary on
his substantial feet. Eventually, just on midnight,
the messengers came back and reported that they
had scoured all the bar-parlors of the windy city
for an interpreter, but to no avail. The House
then adjourned.
Premier See will gain little by temporising
longer about a successor to N.S.W. Police
Inspector-General Fosbery. Mr. Fosbery wants
to get out of harness, and his long service entitles
him to release. In fact, he asked to be released
in Reid’s time, but his retirement means a pension
close up to his present salary, and Reid, arguing
that that meant two salaries for the office, pre-
vailed on “ the distinguished man to continue his
distinguished services.” If Fosbery were not
legally entitled to that substantial pension he
would have had a successor long ago. Garvin,
Garland and Larkin are local competitors for the
office, but See totters between two opinions as to
a Board or a solitary head.
For the present there is no more litigation
re the financial fiddlings of old John Wallace, that
sapient and respected pillar of Vic. Leg. Council
who said of himself, in an electioneering pamphlet
—“I have never had a black mark against my
name.” The plaintiff, son of Wallace deceased,
has come to a settlement with his step-mother,
the executrix of her late husband’s will. Practi-
cally the settlement is an admission that John
Wallace embezzled an immense amount of the
Monahan money, which he was supposed to hold
in trust for his children. His widow, it seems,
undertakes to pay £83,000, in instalments, to the
Monahan estate, on account of arrogant old
John’s defalcations, and the court has gravely
approved the settlement. Either Wallace was an
ignorant ass with an enormous belief in his own
shrewdness as a mining investor and general
speculator, or he was a case-hardened rogue.
Anyway, he ranked as an elder in the Yic. House
of Fatmen. He loomed importantly and rep
resentatively among those unyielding Tories
whom the Abgus earnestly exhorts to stand firm
and save the Constitution.
Alf. Vincent, the Bulletin’s Melbourne
cartoonist, who suffers in the springtime from
visions and dreams of the Cup races and doesn’t
always dream the right horse, has discovered the
true strength of his occult faculty. Alfred is a
water finder. The other week when he was
visiting an anxious grazier in the Fern Tree
Gully his host detected the light of
divination in his—A.V.’s—lovely brown eyes,
and, before the artist could lodge a polite protest,
he found himself walking around the property
with a two-pronged rod in his hands. At a
certain spot the “pointer” started to dip with
great determination, although the blushing
medium tried his hardest to hold it straight in
front of him as before. The more he struggled
against the invisible attraction the more powerless
he became. Then he learned that a previous
diviner had lost control of the rod at the same
spot. Some further tests confirmed the first
result. The pointer dipped every time, and the
water was there sure enough—they bored for it,
and soon struck an abundant supply. Since then
Alf. Vincent has watched himself carefully, and
he finds that his hair stands on end at the
approach of a thunderstorm.


KARTELLS
THREE STAR
BRANDV.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
To Ooktributobs. —ln the case of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
plaqp of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
AFTER MANY YEARS.
WILLIAM HENRY : “ You see, the Prodigal Son has returned, father.”
THE OLD MAN: “Hi, Jim! kill a dozen sheep and two calves !”
“ 8.5.” : Cookies here (N.-W. Victoria)
mostly have their dams where the drainage from
houses, stables, pig-styes, &c., must flow into
them. Also they carefully fence the dams to en-
sure themselves good water, and erect pumps.
Then they wonder where the devil the yearly-
recurring typhoid comes from. By the way, the
drought, which the Melbourne dailies broke up
with such a flourish some two months ago, is
again in full blast, and if it doesn’t break in
reality soon, what land isn’t blown into the dams
and water channels will have left bodily in dust
clouds for the eastern part of the State.
• • • •
One of the attractions of a recent Maori-
land church bazaar was a weight-guessing compe-
tition, the animal to be guessed being a pig. The
bazaar lasted two or three days, and nobody
remembered to feed the grunter during that
period; therefore, it was a very faint and cruelly
diminished pig that was handed back when the
function was over.
“ Rusty ” : Re par. in B. (28/2/’O3). If
“ J.S.R.” had ever been a poor man on the land
he would not feel so sad about the wholesale
shooting of “ the happy family.” I have known
these birds to eat, in two days, the whole of the
seed wheat that was sown on a 10-acre patch.
Anywhere out Bourke way, when seed wheat is
sown, they simply flock on to it in thousands.
Also, carriers, when feeding on the road, must
stand by the whole of the time to keep the birds
out of the feeders.
• * • •
“F.C.” : As to foxes and rabbits ; in ’93
I wintered on the ranges below Lancefield —for
the discouragement of an attack of phthisis—and
trapped rabbits for a livelihood. Cats—tame
pussies run wild, and fiercer than the domestic
tabby—eat head, neck, and heart of trapped rab-
bits. Sometimes the cats themselves get trapped ;
then you have to kill them to recover your trap ;
you can’t otherwise get near them. Foxes do kill
trapped bunnies; tear them to pieces, and eat the
heart and tenderest parts of the flesh. “ Elmore ”
says reynard is too suspicious to go near a
trapped bunny. How comes it, then, that I have
myself trapped over a dozen foxes, besides seeing
them “ do a get ” when I was lying in wait near
my traps about 5 p.m. ? As for making money out
of bunny. Mate and I made a good living, and a
bit over, during those six months, though neither
of us at first knew how to set a trap, or what to
do with bunny when we got him. We averaged
a pair, clear ; but this was before there was
any export trade in bunny; to-day trappers should
realise sd. or 6d. a pair net. We didn’t work in
thick rabbit country. To-day, if my chest troubled
me again, I would go up on the Dividing Range,
between five and ten miles from the railway, with
a horse and cart, a tent, and 50 traps; and I’d
have no misgivings about clearing between £2 and
£3 a week—and that, with good health and an in-
dependent life, isn’t to be sneezed at. I have
been told of men who made £lO and £l5 a week
out of skins only—not trapping, but netting water-
holes and tanks; but this was always said to be
“ away back ” in some vague part of N.S.W., or
Q., or Gehenna.
• • • •
Vic. ex-Govt. Astronomer Ellery confi-
dently states that the drought is now coming to
an end, and that the seasons will gradually
mend, for a few years at least.
• • • •
“ W. W.” : It is not an uncommon thing
round Wee Waa for any person who is fortunate
enough to possess a horse to find in the morning
the animal bathed in lather and sweat from head
to foot and great blood-stains down its sides. It
is another tale of the drought. Some father of a
starving family has used (or stolen for the time
being) that horse, and ridden him to where he
could safely steal a sheep. The blood-stains over
the horse’s flanks show where the blood has gushed
from the gashed throat of the sheep. The owners
of the horses seldom prosecute—tjjey know the
stress of the drought.
From “ Paddy Melon ” :
“Yeppoon’s” yarn (8., 21/2/’O3) about the colt that
bucked itself clean out of its hoofs and left them in the
sticky soil, originated about the time Captain Cook
landed in Botany Bay. It is one of a series told by the
“ hands ” to the green-horn jackeroo, and forms part of
the curriculum of initiation into the mysteries of “ colo-
nial experience.” The busting of the eye of an axe
caused by the swelling of the handle as the result of a
snake-bite, the sheep-dog that can yard a chicken (or a
blow-fly) into a jam-tin, the old-man kangaroos that
kill gohannas with waddies, and the straining of rifles by
potting shy dingoes at too long a range, and such like,
all help to set the tender-foot thinking. It is all “ fair
dinkum ” too. The axe is produced (one that’s been run
over by a waggon), and Bill wears a belt made out of the
snake-skin. The tin is still there, so is the chicken (the
first old rooster that runs past will do). It was during
his chickenhood that he was yarded. Unfortunately,
though, the old dog is dead. Otherwise they’d get him
to do it again. Mick’s got the skins of the kangaroos
that fought with the waddies under the mattress on his
bunk to keep the weevil out, and is preserving them till
winter when the prices will go up, and he oils his strained
rifle with the fat taken out of the murdered gohanna.
What more d’ye want ?
NOTHING MEAN ABOUT HIM.
Gratuitous Adviser (watching distracted efforts of indifferent rider to control steed): “ Let
her have her head! let her have her head!”
IDIFFERENT RIDER : “ Her head! She can have her whole carcase, hoofs and all, if I
ever get out of this.”
“ J.” : Apropos of the Lownes (W.A.) inci-
dent. Once, in Bananaland, I was startled by a loud
explosion at the back of the house, followed by the
most truly awful yells I ever heard. Rushed out,
and found they proceeded from a youthful
Kanaka domestic, who had a lump like a volcano
on her forehead, and much blood flowing from
her glossy countenance. After administering
suitable relief and calming the yells, which took
much time, an investigation was held, and it was
found that the wounded one had industriously
lighted the washhouse fire with some paper and
two detonator caps. She was vigorously blowing
the flames when things blew up, and the firewood
and part of the roof went heavenward, and the
washhouse copper landed on her countenance.
The injuries soon healed, though the lady’s face,
if carefully assayed, should have floated off well
as a copper-show. The firewood, to the best of
my belief, has not come down yet.
• • • •
The latest great Victorian dust-storm has
choked up most of the irrigation channels in the
Mallee country that the previous dust-storm
missed, and the local supply of objurgation having
run out, it will soon be necessary to import cuss
language from Melbourne to express the situation.
• • • *
“F.” : The writer (8., 7/3/’O3) who wasn’t
quite sure that there was a blacksmith’s shop at
Pooncarie may be excused for his doubt on the
subject. Sometimes there is a shop, and at other
times, after a prolonged blastiferous duststorm,
there isn’t. At least, it has to be dug out of
several feet of red sand. Pooncarie claims to be
the only “town” that has had its cemetery blown
away. The cemetery is on a bit of a sand-bank,
and, a few years ago, a big storm blew some Bft.
of the surface of the cemetery clean away—over to
Hay, probably. All the coffins and bones were
exposed, and some of them probably blew to Hay
also. But, by sticking in scrub and other dust-
gathering obstacles, a new cemetery was collected.
Near Pooncarie there is a short line of fencing
over a sandhill which consists of three distinct
fences, one above the other. The bottom two are
buried in sand, and when I saw it last the third
was half-buried. People who wish to “go on the
land ” around Pooncarie have to be particularly
spry, as the “land ” has a fashion of shifting in a
hurry, and it is no uncommon thing for a selector
to get up in the morning and find half of his
selection blown into the next district.
• • • •
The drought has reached even well-watered
Gippsland, where little rain has fallen for over
two months. The Mitchell and Tambo Rivers
are now merely backwaters of the lakes, and are
salt for a higher distance than has been known for
years.
* * * *
“Via” : Be snakes jumping (B. 24/l/’O3)
Dr. Zadler, chief of Ophidian Dept, in London
Zoo, says it is a muscular impossibility
for any known species of snake to
spring more than half its own length,
Also that the alleged dancing
of the cobra, etc., to
music is 95 per cent,
flam and George Reid.
Zadler has 40 years
world-wide experience
and a lofty professional
reputation to back up
his statements. Late
Professor Huxley con-
curred with the doctor.
I will back the scien-
tists against any bush-
man who has been
chased by a tiger snake
hugging a bottle of fire-
proof rum to its scaly
breast. I have seen a
good few snakes in my time; the real
kind and the other sort.
• • • •
Years back, up on the Queensland border,
an old shepherd was found dead in a gully. Two
neighboring squatter Jaypees, for whom he had
recently worked, held a magisterial inquiry and
found a verdict of death by Providential visita-
tion. Two cheques for £52 in all were found on
the corpse, and each cheque was signed by one of
the gentlemen who held the inquest. After con-
sultation they decided that it would be wrong to
interfere with the property of the dead, so the
corpse and cheques were buried in the one grave.
It was a reverent act, and those squatters are £52
ahead to this day.
“ Galvo ”on smells :
The B.’s sub-leader (7/2/’O3), which calls Hobart a dirty
place because its Rivulet can be smelt from Bass’s Straits,
or thereabouts, brings odorous and odious memories of
other large fragrances which I have inhaled in different
parts of Australia. Nature provided me with bad hear*
ing and wretched eyesight, but compensated—doubtfully
—by providing an extra keen sense of smell. Some Bul-
letin correspondents, a few months ago, claimed that
different colors appealed to them as distinct musical
sounds. Smells appeal to me just the same way. A vile
odor is as much a shock as a false chord to a musician,
and Australia contains many such shocks.
Sydney possesses a good system of drainage, on the
whole, but until the low level system is put into opera-
tion (and, for certain engineering reasons, it will not be
for many months, despite an untrue departmental asser-
tion to the oontrary), Blackwattle Bay will continue to be
something more tangible than a memory. At low tide,
under a hot sun, with a puffing little ferry-boat to stir
things up, it is something to treasure in the memory’. I
had to carry out some work in the neighborhood last
summer, and the memory of bullock refuse from the
abattoirs, old fish, old hat, old rags, old garbage, old
hogs, dogs and devils lingers in my nostrils still.
Melbourne also can hold its end up. Passed a whole
night two years ago in a steamer cabin on the Yarra, and
hope never to repeat the performance. The Yarra strikes
a lower note than Blackwattle Bay. It is less acrid but
more subtle, and appears to flow in and out and change
its quality of smell continually’. It cannot be shut out,
as the Blackwattle Bay'stink, to a certain extent, can, by’
closing doors and windows—it :s more insistent and
demands entrance like a bailiff. It may be doing
Adelaide an injustice when I say it smells sweetest of all
—an octave higher than Melbourne or Sydney. At any
rate, I can recall nothing especially bad in the way of
odors.
It is reserved for Perth to provide the concentrated
perfume of all. Perth posseses an institution known as
Olaisebrook Drain, into which flows most of the drainage
from the eastern portion of the city. It is an open ditch,
some 20ft. wide, and as deep. I had to pass along about
300yds. of this daily during one very hot summer, and
bought a bicycle for the express purpose of sprinting by
without taking breath. I found it impossible to walk
that distance with only one breath, but I could ride it.
The smell of Olaisebrook Drain is like unto no other
smell on earth. It shrieks aloud like Tommy Bent when
a train gets in late, or like the ruffian who sells Wild
Rabbit.
Perth possesses another odorous institution worthy
of notice, called a “ dry well.” Underneath each
house a large pit is dug, and the house drains simply flow
into it. As the soil is pure sand, the liquids sink and
leave a lovely scum on the surface, which becomes dry,
hard, and sometimes prevents further moisture from
escaping. Then the “dry well” overflows into the
house, and choice is the fragrance thereof. I boarded in
a house the well of which misconducted itself thus, but I
didn’t wait for its subsidence—l fled, with my nose in
my hand, for another hash house. If it were not for the
deodorising qualities of the sand, Perth would have been
wiped out of existence by typhoid long ago—even now it
is bad enough.
• • • *
“ Aldon ” : Flocks of crows, hailing from
the unaccommodating Mallee, and up to 700
strong, are raiding the orchards (and incidentally
wiping out the grasshopper pest) in North-east
Victoria. By the way, what is the record flock
of crows ?
A REAL QUEENSLAND EPISODE.
A one-eyed traveller, camped on the creek, was
fly-bitten in the good optic and blinded. Luckily
he was not alone. Herewith procession into town.
A Western Queensland station manager
was asked by the owners to report as to how the
station had come out of the drought ordeal.
Accordingly he made up a parcel of sundries —a
piece of hide containing the station brand, three
hoofs, a green-hide girth, a broken bridle, a pair
of horns, the skin of the cattle dog, and a rotten
This he forwarded with the adden-
dum : Gentlemen, these are the assets.”
SLEEPER-HEWING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you’re grafting sleeper-getting,
Grimly bullocking away.
From the rising to the setting
Of the sun, each blessed day,
And the timber’s tough and sappy,
And the broad axe isn’t light,
And the flies don’t make you happy,
Or particularly bright;
It’s enough to make you curse things
In the wildest style you’ve got,
For few, indeed, are worse things
• Than a sleeper-getter’s lot.
Then you saw it into sections,
And you quarter up the tree,
And you groove it where deflections
Twist the grain contrari'y,
And you chop it where it’s “ stringing,"
And you keep the maul a-swing
Till the ranges are a-ringing
With the echoes answering,
And you never lose a minute,
Though the weather’s blazing hot,
And hardly tucker in it
Has the sleeper-getter’s lot.
The soldier ant goes proudly
On the battle path alone ;
The jackass rollicks loudly
In a way that’s all his own.
And you hear the rush and stumble
Of the lusty kangaroo
When he’s coming all a-tumble
In the evening time to woo.
But you 1 what is your life, man,
With your heart and mind a-rot,
For neither love nor wife, man,
Has the sleeper-getter’s lot.
But it’s stiffen every muscle,
And put weight in every blow,
For while you’ve strength to hustle
You must grit your teeth and go ;
And when the shadows dully
Close around you, crawl to camp,
In the weird and lonesome gully,
And you curse the old slush lamp.
And you sleep with little dreaming,
For the land of dreams can not
Send e’en one bright ray beaming
On the sleeper-getter’s lot.
BEN SUN.


Cerebos Salt.
Used at table and in cooking, Cerebos Salt is
not only dainty and economical, but it makes all
the food more strengthening; because it con-
tains the Bran Phosphates (absent from White
Bread) out of which Nature forms Nerve and
Brain, Bones and Teeth, and Healthy Body.
From Grocers and Stores
Wholesale Agents Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Cut this out and forward it, together with two
shillings and (nine pence postage) to The Koko Maricopas
1,0., Ltd., Australasian dept., Dean’s Place, Sydney and
we will send you by return post a 4s. 6d. bottle of our
famous “ Koko for the Hair.” Our object in letting vou
have a 4s. 6d. bottle for 2s. is to gain your continual
custom, which we can be sure of, once you have tried
Koko. Never has a hair preparation obtained such
nattering testimonials as Koko has received. We will
send you copies on application. Koko can be obtained
ofa.lchemists and stores at Is., 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per
4 Pearls & 1 Australian
Sapphire, £4/4/-
5-stone Diamond,
a marvel of
value,
£5/5/-
Choice Diamonds and
Pearls,
£l2/12/-
FINGERS
by THOUSANDS
have been graced by our RINGS, or
perhaps it were better to say thousands
of our Rings are graced by charming
fingers.
We sell so ma»y because we are known
for—
The most exquisite of Rings.
The Latest Designs in Rings. The high grade of our Rings.
w« h.„e JSfs »,<»,
London Prices.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Hanufacturc-s of Rings and
High-Art Jewellery, . ,
23^HUNTER STREET, SYJDNEY.
A Forbes (N.S. W.) school-teacher gave to
h,s dass (largely recruited from dairy-farmers’
children) the task of drawing a cow. Some weird
pictures resulted including one of a cow ,
four front legs and no hind ones, but every child
gave the udder of the animal great prominence
There were cows with big udders, cows with
enormous udders cows with monstrous udders
Poor brats: they d had that part of the cow graven
into their intelligence. 8 ™
* * *
“Snorkie”: Re “G.S.” in Bultftiv
(28/2/’O3) finding dead camel with hessian sewed
over wound. I can state this for a nosi
tive fact : At White Cliffs, about a fortnight
ago, saw a camel which had under saddle an open
wound about 7in. long and 3in. deep. Same was
filled up with hair (mi ed from hind quarters of
camel) rolled in a ball. Sickening sight • vet
same camel had a load of something near a quarter
of a ton.'
J. : Was employed in Mount Brown
Forest Plantation (S.A.) at latter part of the
eighties, and caught young opossum in bottom of
red gum we had felled for sleepers. Took ’possum
to the tent where I had a pet cat that had
lately given birth to kittens, all of which I had
drowned. Placed opossum alongside of cat, and
after few days was surprised to see it cling to back
of the cat and ride about the place. Before I had it
a week cat would allow ’possum to suck it, and in
this way it was reared.
CARRIE MOORE.
Photo, by Talma , Sydney.
Quaintly ingenuous item from S.M.
Herald :
During the past year 930 wild dogs were destroyed on
stations in which Mr. Peter Waite is interested. The
great majority of them were poisoned with strychnine
ik- ' ke interesting to know what advantage
ims method of destruction has over the scalping system
which is still carried on by most pastoralists.
That writer evidently fancies that scalping is a
method of execution —that you run after the wild
dog and scalp it fatally till it is quite dead.
• • • •
“J.F.D ”: The ordinary school kid has
murderous instincts. Passing a school fence the
other day I found three hopefuls running a
butcher’s shop in the play-hour. About fifteen
bullfrogs had been neatly dissected, and their
legs, shoulders, heads, etc., were hung on bent
pins from the wire fence. A few white wood
grubs were on view suspended alive, and on
inquiry I found they represented sausages. One
youngster told me his father was a butcher ; the
other two were sons of the local undertaker.
the Eing-
them. Board Hal1 ' where the clerk received
avW SsfSL' 1 8 " rU Or ted FL h^ C,erk «"“«»***•
of the country '• bein’ £i£ ga !? to the time
Then the meeting opened UP W,d childish flapdoodle.”
gan r sh?,d D bTcensL A red hi’s a ia n f' an ’ 1 t £ inkMr ’ Flanna-
think tliat because thev bls . las t remark. Some people
the Almighty.” J Can Wln battle Oup they’re
cuda got' me Jersey cow m? '! uddn ’ fc a won it if I
Cr. Flannatran • « £9™ fron » the top paddock.”
th'attinshun of a ginUeman 0 ” ™^ o '' * Unworth > r ®f
fore the meeting should*he meekly that . the business be-
pondence "was r ea d Mr, with -. The Torres-
board that Cr. McTavishwas^ T f n Vlsh wrote ‘"forming the
to Brisbane, too ill to attend of a visit
round. (The clerk here ecel y ed with a grin all
room.) turned Ryan s goats out of the
#ssss£ssas
Bid«at?on a ' rman Sa ' d the question demanded close con-
ent ways of thryW
get'to Ryan’s'iju’t “** ’ f > " ,e H and the chairman wanted to
Ret, to Kyan s pub., an to do it I crawled over and rh’
i a move n a r ne ed K Ver ” (vi?orousdissentfrom the chair).
J move a negative answer ” *
Carried unanimously-M’Tavish being absent.
On the motion of the Chairman a resolution was passed
to express sympathy with President Castro P
O Dwyer and Flynn adjourned to Ryan’s.
present P ° mted ° Ut that there was nofc fl Quorum
SSX2S.."»' w *"* * i™™ »»■■• fcJSt 5
Departure of clerk in search of a dictionary.
Councillor O’Reilly : •• Come an’ have a drinkT"
The meeting adjourned.
“ G.” : Re winnowers and “complete
harvesters (“ Chass ” and “ Eiddal,” B. 10/1/’O3).
A good sample in either winnower, harvester, or
thresher is usually, obtained at the expense of
quantity, because wind-power sufficient to remove
a« rubbish will also blow out some of the wheat.
Dut although the gram gained by use of the har-
vester as compared with the winnowers may not
be much, ‘‘think of the souls, mon ; think of the
souls! . For the winnower is probably the most
cursed invention that ever struck wheat-land
Jf ew farm-laborers will regret its exit, for ’twas
heart-breaking work. A great point about the
harvester is that, thanks to the enterprise and
inventiveness of a Ballarat manufacturer, it is
made locally, and thus gives much-needed labor to
Australian workmen.
“J. F. D.” : The goat
shares with the boy the dis-
tinction of being about the
most contrary animal in the
empire. When a boy, Dad
bought two billy-goats (why two
billy-goats I don’t know). After
a while, to prevent them slipping
into neighbors’ gardens during
their daily rambles, he fixed a
piece of hardwood three feet
long to the two leather collars,
thus yoking the goats together.
The first day under the new
treatment they did not return
till 7 p.m., their ordinary time
was 4. Next night it was
later, and the following night,
no goats turning up at 9 p.m.,
five of us boys (we are a large
family) were turned out from
the fireside corner, where we
were listening to ghost stories,
to hunt them up. We found
them about half a mile away,
one on each side of a post that
happened in their way, and
pushing with all their strength.
They must have been at it for
hours as each had a small trench
dug with his hoofs. Dan, who
was a particular friend of the
white billy-goat, wanted the
other one to give way so that
the white billy-goat would not
feel hurt, but young Bill thou ght
the other goat had as much
right to a fair go as the white
one. Bill and Dan quickly got
into “holts,” and Joe and I
taking different sides also went
at it as hard as we could. Paddy was umpiring, but
Peter, being sent to discover the cause of the delay,
quickly gave Paddy a better task than umpiring.
Dad sneaked on us about 15 minutes later and we
went home much quicker than the goats; they
had broken the piece of wood that joined them
together. _ If we had exhibited the spirit of
compromise and dug up the post so that the two-
goats might settle the matter without loss of
dignity, there might have been fewer black
eyes and strap bruises in the Doolan family.
« • • •
“J.R.E.” : Tom Coward, of Adelaide,
who in the early days was a mounted trooper and.
an explorer (he accompanied one or two expedi-
tions into unknown country), says that some
tribes he came across were Jews and that he
witnessed the rite of circumcision more than
once. He stated they were a different class of
blacks altogether from the ordinary, and they
used Masonic signs. But he didn’t, like Sydney
Klein, throw in any extra frills about a Hebrew
praver-book, and his geography wasn’t so erratic
as Klein’s.
TOO LATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The stock lie thick round the boggy pool,
The crows their gluttony sate ;
The bushman swears—like a Pagan fool—
And the parsons bid us wait;
Wait—till the starving stock are dead,
Till the children cry for their daily bread,
Till the Lord shall take it into His head
To send us the rain—too late.
'Tis easy to speak of a perfect trust,
’Tis easy to preach and prate :
“ The rain will come ” (well, of course, it must)
If we trust in the Lord—and wait.”
For the Lord does things in his gradual way,
But He’ll hear our prayers—so the parsons say—
And He’ll send the rain—or, at least, He may—
What odds if it is too late 1
Then pray ! ye men of the Western plains ;
Thank God for your kindly fate ;
Till the blood dries up in your fever’d veins
Put your trust in the Lord—and wait,
With a tightened belt, for your daily fare,
While the bones of the perished stock lie bare,
Till the Lord looks down with a languid air
And sends us the rain - too late.
SPINIEPEX.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
DAN CREEDON.
BILL McCOLL.
Photo, by Brand, Park-street, Sydney.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Hanle and address must appear on MS.
Ho liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted , whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany
Leila : There was 2d. to pay on your letter, so
it was dropped in the basket... .J. H. : There was
2d. to pay on your letter, so it was dropped on the floor.
A. P. Rodger : There was Is. 4d. to pay on your letter, so
it was dropped out of the window John G. :An
aboriginal who died, aged 65, was. hardly old enough to
have his photo, published as that of a “ patriarch. "....
C.A.M. : Matter all right, but style leaves a great deal to
be desired....T.G.F. : “Lady and Black Veil" badly
handled. ...D.H.R. : Maori quite un-Maori-like, and
whole yarn crude Leon Breaker : “ For Foul Riding ”
better than most race yarns, but not good enough for°B.
Try some sporting rag Ku-Klux : Par value only
Grace E. B. : “ Accepted " only suitable for London Jour-
nals and Steal Bits. .. .J. Holland : Saving your night-
mare for an issue of special horror.... Trio : Don’t get
angry because a patient spinster has hooked a man. And
try to send something not generally known about some-
one who is generally known.... Sceptre: No precise
figures can be given as the few people who know are
dumb as oysters on the subject. The system is this : A
parish priest gets all that his flock will part; if that is
more than his own needs require, the parish contributes
to the support of the Bishop ; it is then called by him a
mensal parish (as it contributes to his table), and it puts
on a certain amount of dog and hauteur accordingly,
oome parish priests in Australia have beoome pretty rich
but that was when the Bishop didn’t know his business'
On the whole, we think, the R.O. elergy don’t get more
for themselves (excluding church maintenance money)
than the average Protestant divine ; but as they don’t
™ ar O' the y have not got to share it with so many.
Xrobably the most flourishing clerics are those of
the fashionable city Presbyterian and Conorega-
tional churches. But as the R. C. church never
submits its accounts to open audit it is impossible
to say exactly what its Bishops and clergy get
A.K.H. , What is directed at “cant" is often mistaken
for an attack on virtue T.F. : Shows a good
deal of promise, but no hope, so far, of your “ making a
living out of literature.” Better try and make a living
at something else, and give your spare hours to chasing
the Muses....Nagoc : You’d need a deal of practice °
Echo: “Youth to Fate’’is the beet; and that idea has
been used before by a big-gun poet Ven F. : Tame.
Rispah: A fine, strenuous life, undoubtedly, and the
material could be worked up into good stuff • but
copy submitted is too flat and matter-of-fact '
Orion: You don’t take the belt for poetry.!’.!’.!!
Dieff : “ The girl that worked the beer machine ” is
a flat and headless thing Unsuitable: Tom L
Patience, Conrad, J.P. (Young) The Ringer : Faithful
dog verse of mechanical pathos oaaly Marbro : Potted
phrases, with no original observation.... Paul Fabio :
Mechanical satire.... Juno : Yes, send in as suggestion
W.B.M. : Practically all that you say of the B.C. has been
pnnted before Cadenza : The effort to be humorous
is rather too apparent... .H.C. : Please give name of
story, which has become separated from your letter.
Don’t “ covet the pen of Corelli ’’—which is a feeble pen
tor all its cheap flashness.. . .John B. : Case not clearly
enough stated. You should have shrieked less and
explained more.... Heldne : Too abominably scribbled for
consideration. What is worth reading should be wonh
writing. .Graham Mar : Too much diluted with inessen-
tial detail J.P.F. : Rather ingenious expansion of a
very ancient “ wheeze.".... J.M.P. : Some pathos, but not
• enough.... Jaek-a-Clubs : There’s imagination
in it, but it is hopelessly out of our hue A. P. Rogers :
The idea isn’t bad, but the workmanship is rough and
awkward Dora: Just a silvery tittle squeak. ..
Aramac : It has been all said before, and better
'W.N.E. : We couldn’t make such an assertion on your
unsupported say-50... ..Novice : Mildly humorous.....
Rataplan : You strike hard, but unscientifically, and
your reasoning leaves you just where you started
C.M.C. : What a desperately humorless person your
friend must be. Or, perhaps, he’s merely “ stringing "
you.... Alice B. : Very pretty in its way, ‘but it’s such a
commonplace and conventional way Will Mac.: Still
doesn’t suit us... .General: Pretty good idea, but not
well enough worked out.. ..Darkman : Elephantine
humor.......Siebel: Pretty verses enough, but sen-
timent thin and conventional F.F.T. : You
haven’t an elementary notion of metre J.H.
(Perth): Maybe true, but not interesting.. ..A.8.p1
'(Petersham): The Bulletin didn’t say we are the most
lightly-taxed people on earth ; it only quoted the saying.
But when the S.M. Herald speaks of us as about the
most heavily-taxed people on earth, it is talking ROT.
National taxes are heavier in N.S.W. than in England
But, then, in England police, education and charity ex-
penditure are paid out of local rates, and local rates
average about 6s. in the £ of rental (they are over 9s,
in the £ in some places) against about Is. 6d.
in Sydney and suburbs. Taking all taxes, N.S.W.
gets off very lightly compared with r England
O.O.: In short, you believe in Dowie on the ground
that if people abandon medical science and become full
of diseases, they will live “better, happier, holier, longer
and more intelligently ” than if they had these diseases
cured... Nym : What do you mean by talking of the
time “ when Judge Gaunt came down heavily on the
scurrilous Bull-Ant some years ago?” The Bull-Ant
wasn’t especially lucky, but if the Argus and the Presby-
tenan Assembly were no less respectable it would be a
good thing for Melbourne.... W.I. : We’ve already com-
mented on that Chinese tragedy R.L.C. : Show good
deal of merit, but too much of the album type Edid :
A gentleman who wishes to write poetry to pay his fine
for assaulting a lady who had wrecked bis home is a
refreshing novelty, and the poem is novel enough to earn
part of the fine. —
....\Cilga : Too diffuse.... Freida : Quite out of our line
Unsuitable: Kelpie, Alexis, Nair, Valerian, G.U.:
Sahluma, Munter, Elmore, A.O Penny Post: In-
artistically exaggerated E.C.O. : Your poem suffered
from “ stealing-feeling ; measure-treasure ; breast-rest:
joy-destroy ; embrace-trace ; thine-mine,” and ideas’
which just about matched in freshness those rhymes.
E. : Don’t recall your matter ; pars, are net acknow-
ledged in the Correspondence Col. as a rule : it would
take 20 cols, to do so Ben Sun: Don’t like ‘-Iron-
barks”; “Swiper Joe” more hopeful, probably use
One Who Knows : Interesting yarn, but we can’t give a
column to the Somali trouble The Groper: Verses
too much of the potted phrase type.... Stair : Buck-
jumping fiction not bright enough.. ..J.F.D. : “Battle”
a fine idea, but quite inadequately worked 0ut....
F. (Queensland): Your screed cost us 4d. for
deficient postage....Common-Sense : More sense than
grammar, and no coherence at all Roa : Will print.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
R.R.M. ; Much too crude as yet Hal E. : Stale gag •
drawing shows slight promise M. Francis: Both
stale.... J. Gow : One available as suggestion.... Hoch
Kirch : Case is sub judice, and we musn’t comment
J. 0.5.: Do you take us for the Kitchen Wencii’s Dead
Biro? W. 0.8. : Drawings not skilful enough; may
use one as a suggestion....L.K. : An ancient pun—as
distasteful as an ancient courtesan R.D. : Female
underclothing yarn off our beat... .J.M. : Might be able
to use as suggestion ; it wouldn’t print as it is
Splash : Subjects badly chosen P.C.C.: Little verbal
quibbles are absolutely unsuitable for illustration H
Bruns: Drawing too sloppy C. : Some promise, but
weak as yet Neq. : You might try again A.W. •
You live in an artistic street, but your drawing is very
stiff... .F.S.M.: The porter spoilsit.... Jack the Sketched:
N°j use India ink Bendigo: Suggestions not good
f n °ugh Unavailable: W.G., Spero., C.W.L., Jika
H.L., D.M.A., Arthur W., J.A.C., Blobs, Billy B. E B ’
fab.,F.J. (2), 6xB, J.T.C Clarence D. : Accepted... ’
Mrs: I rancis : Good suggestion. Handed to artist.
TO RITA.
It Rita was a flower,
I’d like to be a flea.
But like a cur I’d cower
To nip at such as she.
The sweetness of this Rita—
Not honey—far, far sweeter.
Or in her pretty bower
Mosquito would I he.
Above I’d hum and tower
My Rita for to see.
As she lay there a-sleeping
Round her face I’d go peeping.
Ah ! to puncture her sweet cheek [
And sip the hone.v dew !
Oh ! so cruel a thing to seek
I could not—could not do 1
So outside her snow-white veil
I would try—and try—and fail.
Ah ! But should I just once slip !
A sad thing, O, alack—
And her rosy cheek did nip,
Then to die of a whack.
Oh 1 could my death he sweeter
From your dear hand, my Rita ?


Because the N S. W State Govt. refused
to declare St. Patrick’s Day a public
holiday, Cardinal Moran threatens that
the State Premier may find it idle to
expect “ that men and women of Irish
parentage will cast their (rotes for himself
and his friends when their hour of trial
shall come. ”
THE ATTITUDE OF CARDINAL MORAN GENERALLY SPEAKING.
“WHO’LL THREAD ON THE TAIL OF ME COAT ?”


,r ?le>V lt w V.^o T |
'for "1t?G £ob,
j^TSceSs^^ o ° TJS /S
K.f e T-® 5 D f n r|2 '"?> j
1 t°A r S • ~
(?*>**' <S
e *p r esS*^
Me* p|&lt> Bts^p
Should W« en
‘ L2vS't : vv. A r»A
[\ Qor,Tn^^' OT »*
* , I & *'% "je
wljcn r'.d.«7£ He Keeps trie f*»"l W"7 ,
events)
-fells r»7e WorrtT £f ,r 7 f° r^
*
u. excess
life
(we
oh Ifisj'ninz^W-
old |>en^ion _
£KS Sjjen^ &otrje.
oJf 'rtfpi*'
i n dr-inHT
j ~*r ) *
'jo* •b®^!))i,
i evwy
decent Mkd
° r y M
tffejtfl Want's 1o oTTTrov/ded
"buT v f(?e Jjr'bfes'f dl>§r w W4—
llor i-’hnrt) t x\oY<l -—— '' besides °S<ngj’fr H?sb gW W [
Me W %rn
son]GWSvy fcio 3^ol^
\e
■tfurn - , fA cc
is! &: $ e *cVj
%
{landing Council %<z K*»fc
}f
•'ftfct' you rtjeasnf wtf*T you !
r (o«*ietk — A*»y
trjy k^h*^ "
r . Xou'Mi'' oVfejrj^i
CaII * trjo-tlon |or I
. o\ G<W*rnort
/ V',C Assembly MArV j
To
| W^Orr']
1 >S<W
VA's
SjU>*ie<a -for Viiw7sPl|' 4}
(vd.v*) *;« K ' e h‘'^^ io 'V < ,
of b e •*> c ">9S t ' lu"' or> b u ,„*,«
?, £.. -; R V \ '’ * -
Rf. 4 - No! |in V.»nj«J 'l " V ‘
'jeX /
We nj«ak»j
on V7OIX ajl y«,
VICTORIAN HAPPENINGS.


A. SAUNDERS,
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY, CUTLERY,
OPTICAL AND LEATHER GOODS.
Gent.’s LEA.THER ROLL/,
containing Two Hollow-ground Razors, Corn Knife
Nail Scissors, Tweezers, 20s, 255.
Similar, with 1 Razor only, 15s.
Ladies or Gent.’s WRITING FOLIO,
Polished Morocco, containing Blotter, Notepaper,
Envelopes, Reference Book, and Stamp Ticket
Case, and every convenience, 255.
Heavy Silver Mounts, 455.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, £l.
Two Pure Silver-mounted BRUSHES and COMB,
in Silk Case, £3. Other styles, £2, £2 10s.
Vr:
Pure Silver SHAVING BRUSH and SOAP DISH,
in Silk Case, £2 12s 6d.
■■
Pure Silver Pearl Handle BUTTER KNIFE and
JAM SPOON, in Silk-lined Case, 20s.
Similar, 15s 6d, 17s 6d.
Nicely Chased and Carved JEWEL CASE,
pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s.
Pure Solid Silver-plate PUFF BOX,
20s.
In Solid S lver, £2 and £2 10s.
f
GENT.’S HANDSOME PRESENT.
SHAVING OUTFIT, Pure Silver Soap Holder, Shaving Brush, and Razor,
in silk-lined case, £2 10s.
LADIES’ TRAVELLING COMPANION,
Containing Hair Brash. Cloth Brush, Salts Bottle, Mirror,
Comb, Tooth Brush, Scissors, Nail File, and Glove Hook, 15s 6d.
Gent.’s, similar, with Razor, 17s (id.
SMELLING SALTS
BOTTLE,
Solid Silver, 21s.
Cheaper lines Cut Glass,
Silver Tops, 3s 6d, 5s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s, 15s.
Badies’ Pure Solid Silver-mounted TOILET SET.
Hair Pin Holder, Scent Bottle, Puff Box. and Pomade Pot, £2 10s.
Eargar size. £3 10s.
First-class
Gent.’s
SHAVING
BRUSH,
5s 6d.
Extin
mounts,
7s 6d, 12s 6d,
A LADIES’ PRESENT.
Pure Silver-mounted Glove Stretcher, Shoe Hook, Glove Hook,
and Shoe Lift, in nice leather case, 25s ; smaller 22s 6d.
<9 UU, AVB,
II
•7
*r-
l. ■i-
HANDSOME PRESENTATION TEA AND OOEEEE SET, HOT WATER KETTLE, AND SALYER.
The very best English plate, manufactured by James Dixon ana Sons, makers to Royal Family. Beautifully chased, and ornamented
The lot, as above. 25 guineas. Other Tea and Coffee Sets, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £lolos.
We will be pleased to submit special designs if required.
A NICE PRESENT.
Gent.'s CIGARETTE and CIGAR
CASE.
5s 6d, is lsd, 10s. 15s, 20s, 255.
Pi ice according to quality and
mounting.
Gent.’s Silver CIGAR CUTTER and
PIERCER,
very useful and acceptable, 10s.
. 9ct. Gold, 255.
Pure Solid Silver MATCH-
BOX, nicely chased,
Cs 6d, 7s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
Solid Silver-plate Gent.’s
SHAVING MUG, Gilt inside. 2fs.
Other styles, 10s, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 255.
SEND FOR OUR
PRICE wIST.
PRESENTATION INKSTAND, extra quality Plate, most artistic
design, £2 los. Cheap lines, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
PROTECT YOUR r.YES. —Dust and Sun Protector
Most Soothing to the Eyes. Is 6d, 2s Or’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
/.idles’ Present
Challe
SPEC. CASE.
3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d,
10s, 15s, 20s,
80s, £2.
Ladies’ PURSE and CARD CASE,
Crocodile Leather, Silver-mounted,
5s 6d ; with Shield, 7s bd.
Other styles. 10s, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver Cloth or Hat BRUSH,
beautifully chased and ornamented
15s 6d, 17s 6d, ‘2os
XMAS PRESENT.
Pure Silver Ladles’ HAIR BRUSH, 12s 6d. Very Cheap.
Other qualities, 20s, 255, 30s, £2. A Nice Present.
Ladies “ MIRROR,” Pure Silver-mounted,
beautifully chased, 255, 30s. Other styles, £2, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
“ Swan ’’ Pure Silver
PIN CUSHION, 7s (id.
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN CASE, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
Gold Filled, 17s 6d, 20s, 22s 6d.
Solid Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER and SILVERSMITH
809, 811, 813, 815. 817 GEORGE-STREET SYDNEY.
OPPOSITE REDFERN RAILWAY STATION.


Monogamy really means carrying on one
intrigue at a time. It is confined mostly to
bachelors.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
“ Peril ” tells a railway-story :
I was ganger on a section of a W.A. railway, and had
my gang shifting a bit of line somewhat groggy for want
of ballast. Took the job on at a slack time of day, when
no train was expected for two hours at least. And graft-
ing with a will we soon had the cronk permanent-way
snug and rails relaid ready for girding and spiking. A
stiff breeze blew across the track, and we had to curse
fairly loud to make one another hear. Suddenly a sound
smote my ear that made me jump, and, looking up,
there was a special plunging at us down the rise. No
time for anything but to leap back and await the destruc-
tion ; but, to our amazement and relief, she flew over
those loose rails like a bird. I grinned a ghastly grin to
the guard’s inquiring look at my attitude, but he was
none the wiser. I may add that a ganger when .on work
of this kind is supposed to have a danger flag hoisted a
quarter-of-a-mile on either side of operations. I hadn’t.
The prodigal country’s progress . Loan,
Lien, Lean. It is now Lean time coming.
Former energetic supporters of night
lectures at the Melb. University seen to be letting
their side of the case go by default, as far as evi-
dence before the University Commission now
sitting is concerned. Professors (who naturally
want their evenings for Toorak drawing-rooms and
for writing leaders for the dailies) object to even-
ing lectures as “impracticable,” and testify to the
Commission to that effect; but those who remem-
ber that the-University charter expressly says
that the purpose of that institution is to spread
“sound learning among all classes of the com-
munity,” should at least inform the Commision
that all classes of the community cannot attend
lectures given during their ordinary working
hours.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
TO WOMEN
WHO SUFFER FROfl
KIDNEY & LIVER DISEASE
Amongst life’s cruellest problems are the pain and suffering which many women are called upon to
endure. The radiant days of girlhood have scarcely passed ere the immature woman is forced to
assume the burden of her sex, and, in many instances, she never again knows the enjoyment of perfect
health. The health of woman, too, is of supreme importance. Upon it depends the vigor of
posterity. The happy home life of husband and children is based upon the cheerfulness and content-
ment of the wife and mother. To the credit of woman, be it said, she carries her troubles, and
continues to present a smiling face, under circumstances which would strain to breaking point the
nervous system of-the strongest man. But even woman, with all her wonderful power of endurance,
cannot stand the pressure of suffering indefinitely without aid. Thousands of women have cause to
bless the day when first they tried the healing, health-restoring effect of Warner’s Safe Cure. The
following letters from women are quoted in order that other women, who similarly suffer, may learn
how to regain health and strength, even though they may have resigned themselves, in desperation,
to the prospect of never being thoroughly well again.
Mrs. R, L, Head, Vine Cottage, Second Street, Port Pirie, S.A., says:—
“ It is with the greatest pleasure that I write to tell you of the great and lasting benefit I derived
from the use of Warner’s Safe Cure, for I feel that, but for that medicine, I should now be in my
grave. I had been suffering for a very long time from a complaint common to women of middle age.
I was losing flesh at an alarming rate. The doctors could do nothing for me, and I commenced to use
Warner’s Safe Cure with a very forlorn hope. Greatly to the surprise of myself andfriends, I began
to improve in health from the first bottle. I continued to take the medicine, and gained health and
strength every day. In a few weeks I was up and about my household work, and am now quite stout
and in good health.”
Mrs, E. Bade, Camrock, Elwood Street, North Brighton, Vic., says: —
“ I have proved Warner’s Safe Cure to be a most wonderful medicine when suffering from that
languid and tired feeling most women are subject to, and which makes one unfit to attend to one’j
household duties. In my case Warner’s Safe Cure had an immediate and lasting beneficial effect.”
Mrs. M. A. Cherry, Lake Street, Perth, W.A., says:—
“ For some time I had been gradually declining in health, suffering from nervous exhaustion.
My household work became a burden to me. I had to sit down and rest after the slightest exertion.
This state continued until I became quite prostrated. I was advised to take Warner’s Safe Cure by
someone who had derived great benefit from it. When I had taken three bottles of the medicine I
became quite strong again, my energy and vigour returned, and my work became a pleasure to me
once more.”
MrS« Emma Darvell) Ladies’ Nurse, 8 Carlton Street, Prahran, Vic.,
says :
“I am pleased to report the benefit I derived from taking Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s
Safe Pills. After many years of pain and suffering from kidney and liver complaint, I, who was
accustomed to minister to others, was brought to a bed of sickness myself, and the doctors could give
me no hope of recovery or relief, they giving me but a short time to live. At last I tried Warner’s
Safe Cure. From the first bottle I began to improve in health. Gradually the pains left me. I con-
tinued to take the medicine for some time, until I was perfectly cured and sound in body and in
mind. I have continued to keep well ever since, though some years have elapsed since that time. I
may state that the doctors were more than surprised to see me up again. I have heard of many other
cases during my professional career which have been cured by Warner’s Safe Cure.”
’S SAFE CURE
is a specific cure for all kidney and liver disorders. It possesses the power to compel the kidneys
and liver to extract and expel from the system all urinary and biliary poisons, which are the cause
of rearly all the ailments to which most women are subject, Warner s Safe Cure cures all Rheu-
matic Pains, Persistent Headache, Lame Back, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Anaemia, Debility,
Indigestion, Torpid Liver, Gravel, Stone and Bladder Troubles, simply because it rids
the system of the urinary and biliary poisons which produce these diseases.
A treatise containing full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and accounts of many
remarkable cures, will be sent free, on application, by H. H. Warner & Co., Limited, Australasian
Branch, Melbourne, Vic.
TTTTTT
The First Mistake
Is In buying Photographic Instruments
unsuitable for the work for which they
are required. The BAKER & ROUSE
PROPY. LTD., are large importers of
the renowned “PREMO” and “ POCO ”
Cameras, built in various designs of excellence, to suit all
classes of work in the Home, Studio, or Field. The way to
avoid the first mistake is to inspect before purchasing.
The “SNAPPA,” magazine hand=camera, and the
“ POCKET POCO ” for Ladies outclass all competitors.
“ Austral ” Bromide Papers and Sun P.O.P. always fresh from the
actory. No stains, streaks, or other defects incidental to prolonged shipment.
New Edison Phonographs and Moulded Records.
■ ' **
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.,
375 OEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
vnd at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
pp?
fP/ Sydney.
*( Melbourne
v, Adelaide.
Brisbane
<j i'
At Poverty Point.
“ Ami.” ■' Cathcart’s bitterest bit ot anecdotage was
about his voyage from Australia to San Francisco in 1865,
with the Keans. Poor Coppin got it hot for leading them
into such a quagmire. They were three months going,
in a very inferior tub, and were nearly starved towards
the end, having to live on biscuits and potatoes 1
“Melb.” : Ellen Mortyn, not Mortyne (recently alluded
to) was wife of Chas. G. Mortyn, a Dublin gentleman, and
came to Australia in consequence of domestic troubles.
An old bill informs me that her first Melb. appearance,
just upon *o years ago, was at the Theatre Royal, in Tom
Tavlor’s “Unequal Match.” Cast: Hester Cranbrook,
Miss Mortyn; Bessie Hebblethwaite, Miss Mortimer;
Mrs. Montressor, Mrs. A Phillips ; Sir Harry Arncliffe, R.
Younge ; Capt. Chillingham, Gladstone ; Cranbrook,
Tannett; Dr. Boteherby, Lambert; Blenkinsop, F
Younge ; Tofts, Harlowe (another of the Younge brothers).
Afterwards Miss Mortyn appeared in the “Two Gentle-
men of Verona.” Cast included : Sylvia, Miss Mortyn ;
Julia, Mrs. Heir ; Valentine, G. V. Brooke ; Proteus,
Heir '; Speed, Lambert ; Sir Eglamour, Ireland—his first
appearance as a pro. Launce was acted by Wigan, not
connected with the well-known Alfred or Horace Wigan.
It is curious that our familiar Nelly Mortyne is the wife
of Charles Mortyne, an Australian actor.
Amy Castles scored a record in her singing of “ Home,
Sweet Home” at the Melbourne Town Hall the other
Saturday. Taking the tedious old Yankee ballad as
slowly as possible, her thoughts must have wandered from
the words, and she left out a part of the second verse
unconsciously. The fact is neither the words nor music of
“ Home, Sweet Home ” appeal to the “ heart ” —the
artistic sense—of any professional vocalist. It belongs to
the class of maudlin ditties that are nowadays sung with
illustrations on a sheet, at Rickards’s. „
The Perry girls, Florence and Beatrice, who came to
Australia for W. &. M.’s first production of “ The Geisha,”
are sisters-in-law to Ben Davies, the popular English
tenor. Which helps to explain why the neat little Miss
Florence (with Beatty attached) flourishes as a leading
lady in successful musical shows. ,
A Maoriland theatrical proprietary recently announced
with a great blast of trumpets that it had fixed a sliding-
roof to its splendid playhouse, and hundreds of people
went along to see how it worked. In the middle of the
performance a deluge of rain suddenly struck the build-
ing, and the sliding roof, which was open, refused to
slide, and the people who remained in the stalls watched
the rest of the show with their umbrellas up.
At the interminable A.N.A. competitions in Melbourne
the ot.ier week, a vocal candidate showed sagacity
enough in elect ng to sing a song composed by the judge
But perhaps he defeated his own ends by trying to itn
prove upon the text of the song. Herr de Chaneet, the
judge, announced with cruel irony, that the singer had
lost first prize through “getting some of the words
wrong.”
“ A.D.’”'Par. in B. (14/2/’O3) re Kyrle Bellew’s multi-
tude of clothes seems a bit apocryphal. According to his
own account he landed in Melbourne with a small quan-
tity of cash and a large quantity of letters of intro-
duction. He had a good time while the former lasted,
hut one Christmas Eve he found himself dossing out with
no possessions save what he lay down in. After this he
gravitated to the Solferino diggings, and here luck was
so bad that it is reported he acted as grave-digger to the
community and once buried a Chinaman for a small con-
sideration. After his Herald experiences he got a job
as lecturer to a d.orama in the Burke-street wax-
works. Eventually a friendly skipper allowed him to
work his way back to England as third mate. There he
unde his first appearance with the Bancrofts, owing to
their friendship with his father, Bellew, the reciter.
As regards his clothes, he has had the reputation for
years”of being the worst dressed man on the English
stage, or, more correctly, off it; for on the boards his
logs were always faultless. The same remark might
almost apply to' his partner, la Gown-Trotter. Writer
knows as a fact, that on their last tour, some of Kyrle’s
street clothes were ready made slops, purchased at a big
Sheeny clothing emporium in New York. The greatest
clothes-possessor to date on the Australian stage was
Charles Thursby, leading man in Cartwright’s last tour.
Is he the hero?” once asked an interested inquirer, as a
perspiring dresser lumped the last Saratoga out of the
hotel vestibule. “Yes,’es the ’ero,” said the p.d., “the
blooming ’ero of a’ undred suits.”
Frances Tyrrell Gill supplied the words for a new part
song—“ The Message Bringers”—which should interest
niusica’ societies hereabouts. Novello is publishing the
song, thanks to its fashionable composer, Waldo Warner,
who has a gold medal and a comic opera to his credit, and
is said (by F.T.G.) to have set the words beautifully.
Dear Bulletin. —The remarks of " Fingleur ” an
“ J.A.C.” re “a season of legitimate comic-opera”erad
interesting. Most of the operas named by these writers
really belong to what in the “ purfesh ” is known as
1 yrand opera.” For instance, Mozart's “Le Nozzi de
Figaro” is an opera only to be found in the repertoire of
grand opera companies. In London one never hears
of such a work being produced at the Savoy,
though it frequently figures in the bill at Covent
Garden. However, if one must have legitimate
comic opera, to Fingleur’s repertoire let me add Auber’s
“ Crown Diamonds,” a most sparkling work ; Rossini’s
“ La Cenerentola,” Offenbach’s “ Orphee Aux Enters,”
Flotow’s “Martha,” and Nicolai’s “Merry Wives of
Windsor.” Most of these works possess good choral
numbers, the absence of which “ J.A.C.” states
would militate against the financial success of the
list suggested by “ Fingleur.” But this theory of
“J.A.C.” would not hold good in regard to Donizetti’s
“ Daughter of the Regiment ” and Auber’s “ Fra Diavolo,”
two of the operas on Fingleur’s list, the former in par-
ticular having some telling military choruses. The list
should .certainly include Boieldieu’s comic opera, “ La
Dame Blanche,” founded on the story of the White Lady
of Avenel. This is a charming work and was for some
years in the repertoire of the Carl Rosa Co., which invaria-
bly played it in Edinburgh, Glasgow and other Scottish
cities. (The story is Scotch, ye ken.) When produced
“ some 22 years ago by the late Martin Simonsen, during
a tour of Maoriland,” to quote “J.A.C.,” itwasagreat
hit in Dunedin, where the whisky-drinkers rolled up in
swarms every night. If one stretched a point and in-
cluded romantic opera, what price Benedict’s “Lily of
Killarney ” or Auber’s “ Masaniello ” ?— Louis Paul.
“ N.” : Re Melba, and the trumpery watch presented
by Queen Victoria. It is a wonder M. did not get one of
the cashmere shawls. Bales of them were presented to
Victoria when she was young, and she could hardly get
away with them, throughout her life.
The musical critics of Westralia mean well, but they
don’t know. While Melba was scattering her vocal pearls
before the people of Perth, a pen-jostler on one of the
local papers wrote :—“ Madame Melba wore a faultless
dress of lace, with roses on the hem of the skirt, and a
lovely pearl and emerald cross at her neck. Tosti’s
‘ Good-bye ’ made some people sob aloud.” Rushing in
where even an angel might fear to tread, unless she was
a choir angel, the critic of a weekly paper promptly
struck him with this large, healthy club of censure ;
“ The notice of Madame Melba’s concert just quoted was
evidently written by a woman. Characteristic of the
sex. Melba is praised for her dressing and her jewellery,
and Tosti (probably some underpaid Italian vocalist),
who, it is admitted, sang so as to make people cry, is
dismissed in one line.” And then critic No. 3 fell on No.
2, and urged him to “ relinquish the pen, and make a
vigorous clutch at his natural implements, the pick and
shovel, or settle down into his proper place—between the
shafts of a wheel-barrow.’*
“ A.D.” : Sydney D.T. recently had a column interview
witn J. C. Williamson headed “ The Australian Twang,”
and mentions the difficulty of finding a local successor to
Carrie Moore. The interviewer remarks What is the
reason of this small output of operatic talent, and the
defic.ency also applies to the other branch of the pro-
fession—the drama—where the demand is so great? Mr.
Williamson supplies one reason, which, however, has
been heard before—‘ An objectionable and horrible
colonial accent ’ is his opinion why so many young
women do not succeed on the stage. . . . Mr.
Williamson will probably fill Miss Moore’s place
with a player from England or America.” In
this connection, “America” is good. The Australian
accent isn’t musical, but, “ sakes alive!” is it as
bad as that indulged in by J.C.W.’s compatriots? Leav-
ing histrionic ability out of the question, coHld any band
of Australian mummers have made such a ludicrous bur-
lesque of old English comedy as that presented by'Nat.
Goodwin’s company in their Sydney production of “ The
Rivals ”? “ 11. G.” recently had a logical defence of the
Australian twang in The Bulletin’s “ Red Page,”
mt he omitted to point out that Australian orthoepy
i- just as correct as, say, the fashionable Oxford
° r Gamhridge drawl. Is the local girl’s accent any'
more trying than, say, Nellie Farren’s or Janet Wal-
dorf’s, to say nothing of scores of popular imported
cockney music-hall artists? As to the demand for
the local article being great—well, it evidently only
exists in the writer’s imagination, nor is it likely to be
otherwise when Williamson, Musgrove and others import
several complete English and American companies every
year. If it is so great, why is it that so many actors and
actresses, good, bad, or indifferent, leave Australia as
soon as. they can manage to raise the fare and a few
pounds besides. In the old stock days, when one would
imagine there would be a dearth of local talent, Aus-
tralian actors were good enough to support such stars as
Brooke, Montgomery, and Matthews. It was even so
many years later when Williamson and Maggie Moore
first struck oil here. The manager replies—“But the
public want complete imported companies.” Yet
Bland Holt and Anderson, who probably do better con-
sistent business than any other managers from one year’s
end to the other, employ the native-born mummers
almost exclusively.
The manager of the defunct Melbourne twice-a-night
variety show, which died in great agony at the
end of its second week, started his hopeless enter-
prise by advertising for a young gentleman trea-
surer who could find “£100 cash security.” The
£100 was said to be an “indispensable” minimum, but
the desired youthful capitalist didn’t present himself.
Ultimately two or three young men came along and de-
posited small sums in consideration of the glory of being
launched in theatrical life. Suggests that Melbourne is
about ripe for a Shakesperian “ gaff,” such as flourished
in Houndsditch, London, when Dickens wrote his
“ Sketches by Boz ” where the amateur actors bought
their positions in the cast on a sliding scale of charges.
The price of the “ star ” part in “ Richard the Third ” was
£2, but any aspiring young bloke could get a chance as
Lord Mayor for two-and-six. The “private” theatres
that Dickens spoke of produced their tragedies off the
stage as well as on. “ That stupid-looking milksop, with
light hair and bow legs, is fresh caught: he plays Malcolm
to-night just to accustom himself to an audience. He
will play Othello in a month, and in a month more will
probably be apprehended On a charge of embezzlement.”
Copy of letter received by an-Armidale (N.S.W.) hotel,
keeper “ Deer sir, I intend to exibit a monster big pig.
7 feet long and over 10001b. wate for 3—4 days in Armi-
<dale. Now, I like to ask you if you let me have at
behind of hotel a sheed or stabul and on wich terms. It
will bring customers to the hotel in lots every day coming
Poeple from far and neer to see Him and all say the same
I never never have seen a Pig like him in my life oh He
is worth to gone miles to see Him. I have engaged a
good trustworthy respectble quite Advance Agunt, 1
send him Few Days before before I with 2 of my childerun
and the Pig will arive by Train. The Agunts name is
, averrytal thin Man. He must fix up a bilding
for the Pig because He carnt stand the Sun. My name is
, the owner of the monster big Pig. With the
best respecks to you and Mrs. and the famlee as
well, hopin’ you’ll see me and the big Pig and the
childerun soon, yours obadiently — - ”
“A.D.” : Latest advices state that “ Tapu, a musical
comedy by J. C. Williamson, Arthur Adams and Bert
Royle, music by Alfred Hill, has been successfully pro-
duced by the Pollard opera co. at Wellington (M.L.), the
Poi and Haka dance shaking things up considerably.
J.C.W. originally intended to produce the opera in
Sydney, John Brunton having painted the scenery some
time ago. A Maori expert was imported to explain the
mysteries of the native dances, but eventually it was de-
cided to try “Tapu ” on the native dog.
Seven thousand Wesleyans—monkey-shaven men, with
their wives and daughters in big beetle-crusher boots—
lately assembled at Westminster Aquarium to gloat over
the fact that they had converted the former Temple of
Tottieinto their “ headquarters.” The Aquarium in its
young days was so frankly and generously wicked that it
never quite lost its attraction for ladies who stay out late
“ on their own.” For the sake of its giddy past ihe build-
ing ought to have been preserved from the clutches of
Wesleyanism.
The worm turns 1 In answer to the attack of a Chicago
Presbyterian minister on Miss Virgin a Harned for her
impersonation of Pinero’s Iris in that city, her husband,
E. H. Southern, thus hits back in an open letter to the
church :—I have read your article on the play of “Iris,”
and it is incredible that a minister of the Gospel, a pro-
fessed follower of Jesus Christ, should write as you do. My
wife chooses to play this part. She thinks it worthy of her
art, and so do I, and so does Mr. Pinero—quite a clever
man, believe me, and possibly a Christian, too, but not of
the kind you would understand. “The stage should be
as free from vice as the church,’’ you cry from the top of
your steeple. It is. A thousand times it is ! You don’t
know what you are talking about. The refrain of all
plays is : “The wages of sin is death,” “ In virtue alone
is happiness.” Plays which have not this refrain cannot
succeed. And these very plays of “ Mrs. Tanqueray,” and
“ Iris ” burn these lessons into one’s soul. There is much
talk just now of a church and stage alliance. I wonder
what we actors and play-writers have to learn from such
men as you.
“ H.” : Re “ cruel joke ” (B., 17/l/’03), here’s another
which an old barnstormer named Kane unintentionally
helped to work off on himself. Telling the tearful tale,
he said ; “ On striking a hash-house in Brisbane, where
our variety show was to open, the landlady required
references from me, and was so firm about it that after
giving her the name of our manager, I made out a list of
27 different persons scattered over the State and gave it
to her. She took me on trial for a fortnight, but when
that was up she fired me out. It seems she had written
to every blessed name on my list, and about 20 had
answered. All these had taken the thing as a joke, and
given me a character for immorality and dishonesty that
would have sent any 50 men to the gallows anywhere.
Consequently I got home one night in time to find my
trunk in the hall. The landlady, looking very grim and
determined, handed me letter after letter until the last
one was reached, and then pointed to the door. I wanted
to explain, but she rang me down with, ‘ There can be
no explanation, sir, after what your friends have written.
I had thought of sending for the police, but thinking you
might possibly reform if given a chance, I changed my
mind. You could be gaoled for life over the matter of
the girl at Barnaby’s alone.’ You may think that the
phrase, ‘ references exchanged,’ is a hollow mockery,”
continued Mr. Kane, “ but don’t try it on that woman.”
“ Petramos ” : The American comic tramp has sup"
planted the Cockney coster on the Vaudeville market-
Have heard it stated that J. F. Sheridan originated the
idea in Australia years ago, but don’t recollect the
occasion. Latona was by far the cleverest in his line that
we have ever had, though Sweet was, perhaps, funnier
and longer winded. Most people forgot the fact that it
didn’t require any particular cleverness for the burglar to
play on the piano as he did. The “ Tired Tramp ” didn’t
catch on. His voice was failing, and Sweet got here
before him, with the same gags. The latest tramp is
Victor Kelly (Kelly and Ashby) who has a knack of
knocking himself down and falling on his head, etc.,
without hurting himself. Also he commands reverence
for his knowledge of how to go to sleep on a beer barrel.
“ Melb.”: Sheaf of our old play-bills :—Queen’s Theatre,
1844, opening night, Nesbitt in “The Bear-Hunters” and
“ Black-Eved Susan.” Three months later, first appear-
ance of Coppin and Co. in “The Lady of Lyons,” charac-
ters by Mrs. Coppin, Messrs. C. Young, Rogers, Coppin,
Thomson, &c. Queen’s, 1846, Mrs. Coppin’s benefit,
“The Ambassador’s Lady,” “ Four Sisters,” and “Turn-
pike Gate.” Queen’s, 1854, Christmas Pantomime,
“Harlequin, Conundrum Castle,” by W. M. Akhurst.
Queen’s, 1855, first appearance of G. V. Brooke, “ Othello.”
Messrs. Brooke, Younge, Rogers, Hydes, Burford,
Hooper, Miss Cathcart, Mrs. C. Young. First change ot
bill, “The Hunchback;” Master Walter, G. V. Brooke.
Theatre Royal, 1855, opening night, “ School for Scandal.”
Messrs. Rogers, Warner, Burford, Walsh, L. M'Gowan,
A Phillips, Richardson, Bertram, Salem, Russell, Mes-
dames Poole, Chester, Moore, Thom. Followed by Miss
Quinn as the “Actress of all Work.”
When a travelling opera co. strikes a cathedral town
the R.C. organist endeavors to secure some member of
the team to “do an offertory for Sunday.” This hap-
pened when Abbey’s troupe struck New York, and the
celebrated Brignoli was secured to do a religious “ turn ”
at St. Agnes’s. Brignoli came to church late (having
come home “early” that morning), and, after divesting
himself of as many wraps as an Egyptian mummy mighl
wear, tumbling over music-stands, trying his voice and
fussing round for quarter of an hour or so, he felt fit. By
this time the sermon had commenced, but Brignoli
leaned over the front of the choir and tried to attract the
preacher’s attention by a series of wild pantomime
antics, suggestive of a Punch in the horrors. But the
preacher kept steadily on with his discourse. Then the
frantic singer bent further over the rails and shrieked-
“ Hey ! holda on down there. Stoppa ze preach ! Stoppa
ze preach! I am ready for ze sing. You must not a
preach ven ze gr-reat Brignoli vanta sing!” So “ ze
preach " stopped and Brignoli sang.
(Continued on page 30.) .


HOW TO KEEP COOL.
We strongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condy’s
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath.
A Condy’s Fluid Bath imparts a most
delightful sensation of coolness, freshness
and purity, it invigorates the body and
braces the nerves. The strengthening and
cooling effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book
on bottle contains full directions.
Condy's Fluid is sold by all Chemists
throughout the British Empire. Beware
of substitutes. Insist on having “Condy’s
Fluid.Condy & Mitchell, of London,
England, are the only Makers and their
name and address is at foot of label.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING- ST., SYDNEY.
Before booking- your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers'
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
263 Collins st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st , Sydney.
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION. „
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
, ~ dress, with full in-
structions and Pnce List, our marvellously -accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT
By its use you can Test your own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to— *
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
Strand ArcadeV
*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
“Don’t shout”
I hear you. 1 can hear now
as well as anybody.
How ?' Oh some
thingnew— The Wilson
Common-sense Ear-
Drum I've a pair in my
ears now. you can'i see them 1
-they’re invisible. I wouldn’t
know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right. 8 ’
kThe Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable. ' Totally
- different from any other de-
v 'ce Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CHAIHUfV 329-231 CoMlo* »*•. UeJD.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Item from the newspaper report of the
meeting of every Tasmanian “Reform” candi-
date: “Mr. scathingly denounced the
income-tax.”
N.S.W. Minister Owe’Sullivan has a pas-
sion for answering people. T’other day he gave
the Sydney papers a half-column in reply to “ Mr.
Rose’s fulminations.” A wise Minister doesn’t
always speak when he’s spoken to.
Seddon scolds Great Britain severely for
its unwillingness to lend Maoriland any more
money, and says it has “cut the first strand of
the financial painter.” The Bulletin always
had a suspicion that those “silken bonds” carried
3£ per cent, interest.
Even President Chaffey Baker (although a
Freetrader, and once a bitter personal and politi-
ca4 opponent) attended Kingston’s reception in
Adelaide. Which proves that Kingston’s star
must still be in the ascendant in S.A., for Baker
has no use for declining planets.
More foolish Owe’Sullivanese :
I know that, but for the manner in which the Govern-
ment has proceeded with public works there would long
before this have been a crisis.
With this constant assurance by the Owe’ person
that it is only Bull’s loan money that is staving
off the crisis, what wonder Bull is alarmed.
If Brisbane Courier doesn’t stop writing
indignant leading articles to show that there was
nothing suspicious about its motives when it tried
to bail up the Philp Ministry for that famous
£lOO advertisement, it will end by making every-
body aware of the episode, and of the fact that
since the advt. was refused it and the Philp
Ministry haven’t been speaking to each other
except when they used bad language. E very time
the Courier points out the spotless purity of its
motives it spreads the story a little further.
A PEACEFUL CITIZENS PROTEST.
PRIZE-FIGHTER : “ I protest against this disgraceful riot."
N.S.W. Agent-General Copeland, in pro-
test against the Chamberlain proposal fpr Chinese
labor in S’Africa :
If the country is to be made the home of hordes of the
“YeUow Agony’’—for with these the European miner
will not associate—then I say the late war was a fraud,
and all the national sentiment evoked to the heart’s core
in the bravest of the manhood of our wide Empire was
neither more nor less than a delusion and a snare.
h, . . ~ t> • T>u i
Brisbane Courier sums up Premier Philp
as hopelessly incapable ; Dalrymple as tired and
ineffective ; Cribb as a Treasurer with no grasp of
finance; Foxton as a bully and an autocrat;
Leahy (some months ago) as a man with totally
mistaken ideas of railway management. The Q.
Radical press has long said the same things, and
now finds itself blessed with the Courier’s en-
dorsement.
Melbourne Argus has now definitely
broken with the “Reform” Government it
barracked so persistently for, and is a straight-out
supporter of tiie Council in the dispute over the
Reform Bill. The Age, which lost some prestige
in weakly following the rival Argus over the
Kyabram platform, is not so foolish as to back
the Council too. David Syme’s journal is now
top dog again.
A hint for Kingston ! Fatman at last
begins to recognise the inevitable. Thus F. T.
Scarlett, Chairman of the Melb. Chamber of
Manufactures:—
If the (Factories) legislation was to act in a proper way
it would have to become a Federal matter. Then every-
one would stand on the same footing. Mr. Kingston was
preparing to introduce an Arbitration Bill, and there was
no reason why it should not be stretched out to cover the
wages question.
Alex. Peacock of the laugh probably goes to
England in June on mining business, and already
the future leadership of the Opposition is being
discussed. If Trenwith had not fallen out with
David Syme, his chance would be excellent, but
now Andrews and M'Kinnon are mentioned.
M ‘Lean and Crouch, of the Federal House, are also
spoken of, but they are not likely to step down to
the State benches.
Two Westralian Freetraders Mahon,
M.H.R., and Senator Staniforth-Smith—were to
start a political campaign at Beech worth (Vic.)
last week. An audience of 27 gathered, but there
was no campaign. The two missionaries lost their
way at Seymour, and now one of them is unreliably
said to have accused the other of causing them to
lose the train by spending too j[much time curling
his hair and fixing his corsets.
Premier Seddon preserves the good quality
of down-rightness. Premier Barton having made
a shuffling attempt to tone down Chamber-
lain’s recent “notice-to-quit” speech, Seddon
points out that that plain intimation to the
“ colonies ” that they must eventually part up or
part was but a repetition of what Chamber-
lain and others of the British Cabinet said at the
recent secret Colonial Conference.
If there is one man in Australia that a
huge proportion of the N.S.W. Irish population
would gladly see shifted permanently to the
farthest ends of the earth it is Cardinal Moran,
for his foolish hint that the Irish electors would
vote for the See Government if St. Patrick’s Day
were made a public holiday, and otherwise they
would not. The proposition that the Irish voter
isn’t guided by any intelligent interest in great
political questions, but that his vote can be bought
by a Patrick’s Day holiday, is about the clumsiest
insult that a silly cleric ever put upon his flock.
A North Coast railway (from Maitland to
Grafton, N.S.W.), 300 miles long and to cost
£2,500,000, is proposed. And it ought to be built
(out of revenue) with all possible speed ; £5OO 000
a year for five years would doit, and seeing that
the revenue is £1,500,000 more than it was four
„_j ’.j * _ _ o «m<*u «. was iuur
fvA ?■ i ag f, P ension ? only absorb
£boo,ooo of that, it should be possible to find the
amount. The fact that the richest part of N.S.W.
has been left unrailwayed all these years is a
mystery as well as a disgrace. But a graduated
land-tax, and a wholesale resumption of large
estates, and an absentee-tax should come first.
To build a £2,500,000 railway so that the big
foreign land-grabber may be able to sell his land
at £6O an acre instead of £4O, and thus take 50
per cent, more Australian money away to Eng-
land, is sheer derangement.
Thomas Tait, the young Canadian railway
man selected for Chief Victorian Railway Coin-
missioner, probably doesn’t know it is loaded.
Under present conditions, the big Victorian
billet, for all the fat salary, is a really good one
for any ambitious person to keep away from. The
Irvine-Bent Govt, is appointing Tait under the
existing Act, which leaves him entirely at the
mercy of an unscrupulous Minister like Bent and
an unscrupulous Treasurer like Shiels, and also
at the mercy of a Parliament which is
trying to raid the Treasury for new, unprotitaoie
lines, the maintenance of which has caused the
whole huge* railway deficit in Victoria. Appa-
rently Tait has beerTgiven no guarantee that he
will, with his two fellow Commissioners, be re-
lieved of the dreadful burden of Thomas Bent, and
the constant visitation of bullyragging politicians,
and the undue interference of David Syme.
It begins to dawn upon the
people of St. Kilda, Melbourne’s
marine suburb, which was so long
democratic George Turner’s con-
stitueney, that they have got a very
different kind of person in alleged
reformer M’Cutcheon. When Pre-
mier Irvine announced in the Assem-
bly that he was going to fight the
House of Landlords on the Constitu-
tional reform question, M‘Cutcheon
rose in a great flurry to remark that
the “ Assembly could not in fairness
press the Council in the manner pro-
posed when the Upper . House had
made such large concessions.” Also,
he mournfully protested that “if the
Council were to accept all the pro-
visions of the Bill it would be com-
mitting political suicide.” M'Cut-
cheon, a Melb. printing boss, is one
of those persons who grabbed hold of
the Kyabram “reform” agitation
with both hands as soon as the
Argu3 had given it sufficient promin-
ence, but nobody imagined for a
moment that he, or Swinburne, or
Trashworth, or Sammy Lancaster, or
the Meudell-Gillespie Tommydodds
outside, seriously wished to interfere
with the comfort of the House of
Rich Landlords, or to do anything at
all except egg on the Govt, to set
a glowing example to the virtuous
private employer in cutting down
wages.
Poll-tax Land (the new name for Q.) is at
boiling-point with the Philp-Leahy-Cribb Cabi-
net. Cribb represents (?) Ipswich—a solid town
of sleepy reputation. Recently, however, Sleepy-
town awoke, and an enormous meeting assembled
and thundered at Cribb and Philp. Sleepytown
is now up in arms—thanks to Ryott Maughan, ex-
Labor member for Burnett, whom Philp stated
t’other day to be politically dead !
The N.S.W. Public Service Board sends
out an occasional circular to the younger members
of the service inviting them to pass an examina-
tion, and thereby obtain increased salary. Passing
a certain examination is supposed to lead to a
certain fixed increase—which looks honest and
impartial enough. But The Bulletin knows of
one office—there may be many, but it knows of
one—where a young man with no influence passed
the exam, which qualified him for a certain rise of
salary, and didn’t get any rise. The Board just
left him where he was. And, in the same office, a
much more affluent man got the rise of salary
without passing the exam, at all. Presumably he
had influence.
There was one little episode in the recent
Federal Westralian trip which showed up Yes-
No Reid in not too pretty a light. In the literary
fight between him and Crouch, in the West
Australian, from which the jolly and fat man
came out so much mauled and injured, Reid
complained one day to the interviewer.
I didn’t come with the party. Mr. John Forrest wrote
inviting me, but I didn’t even trouble to answer him.
Crouch replied next day :
Mr. Reid is developing a new phase of humor. He is
going to issue a book on manners. “ The Joker’s Book of
Etiquette," by George H. Reid, P.C., K. 0., D.G., M.P.,
ex-Trea.surer of N.S.W., &c. Ohap. 1: When it is polite
to receive invitations and not answer them; my latest
joke in courtesy, &c., &c.
It is said that the jolly one nearly wept over this
jibe.
Justice Simpson’s questioning of N.S.W.
Solicitor-General’s power to file presentments, and
the consequent possible invalidity of sundry con-
victions, brings to mind one-time Solicitor-General
Isaacs’ claim in Victoria to file a presentment in
one of the Matthew Davies’ cases when his col-
league, Attorney-General O’Loghlen, had refused
to move. There was a great dusting of antique
law books oyer the matter, with the result that
Isaacs’ position was thought to be untenable.
There is little doubt, however, that if the Vic.
Attorney-General had been away from the State,
as in the N.S.W. case, the Solicitor-General’s
power to file presentments would have been quite
valid. The difficulty was got over by the use of
the cumbrous and obsolete grand jury procedure.
Sydney D.T. on the day-labor question :
For a man to suppose that workmen animated by the
ordinary aversion to labor, interested in prolonging the
work they have in hand as long as possible, and subject
to no effective, accelerating supervision, would work just
as fast as those kept up to normal rate of speed by the
stimulating vigilance of a contractor, is only conceivable
on the supposition that he has seen so much of the
wonder-working effects of “ flapdoodle ” that he has come
to enjoy partaking of that illusory form of nourishment
himself.
Which, as a piece of reasoning, is pitifully paltry
and sophistical. Item 1: Workmen are not
ordinarily animated by an aversion to labor—Mr.
Randal Carey may think so from a Bus. Co. ex-
perience, but it is not so. Item 2: It is not a
condition of day labor that the men should be
subject to no effective, accelerating supervision ”
—such supervision should be as easily got by a
day-labor superintendent as by a contractor. It’s
an easy matter to prove anything, if you are
given a free hand to imagine false premises.
John Henry, the Tasmanian F eetrade ex-
Minister who set himself to
Barton in the island, still writes enoimous letters
to the papers to inform the country ot these
things:—
(i) That Freetraders are opposed to customs duties.
(2 ) That customs duties are ruinous and disastrous;
that they impoverish the countryandl that for every £1
they take from the peop y
, f fche Freetrade party captures the Australian
Government it will relv for revenue on customs duties,
an(J fchat Barton - s assertion that it is going to be true
eve?l in part to principles, and rely even to a small ex-
tent on direct taxation, is a shameful slander,
(4) g ut the Freetrade party will try to so arrange
its duties that, while adding to the cost of living in the
way above described, they will help along no local mdus-
try and supply work and wages to no Australian citizen
whate\er.
SYME'S NEW PATENT SYMPATHETIC
CAPITALIST.
“The capitalist makes the great mistake of thinking that the
chief function of capital is to yield interest.”—Given to the
world by the AGE, Feb. 14.
COHEN (who is being paid over his interest): “ But, my
dear man, can you afford all this? Are you, sure
you are not robbing your family. Here, don’t
think of me. Take it all back."
Blusterer Bent has reduced the minions
of his dept, to a state of nervous prostration.
T’other day the train pulled up a hundred yards
or so outside the Kyabram station, and could not
be induced to budge, though the signal stood at
“right.” On inquiring, the statiomnaster found
that the driver had mistaken the telegraph-mes-
senger (who had appeared with his uniform for
the first time under Federal auspices and was
standing on the platform an interested spectator),
for a danger signal!
It is reported that a petition is being pre-
pared among Victorian railway men, asking the
British Government to veto the Bill which shuts
them out from the general body of electors. If
this is so, it is a lamentable mistake. Should the
request be granted it establishes a precedent
for further British interference with our self-
governing powers. The King never dares to veto
a Bill passed by the British Parliament, and he
only dares to veto Australian Bills on the ground
that the Britisher who doesn’t live in England is
necessarily an inferior creature as compared with
the one who does. Australia should protest
against that insulting veto all the time.
“ Dogspike,” on Vic. railway economies .
Vic. Railway Dept, has stooped to the trick of com-
pelling its employees to rent any departmental houses in,
their districts, whether said employees want them or not,
and nobody questions the justice or legality of the-
action. I know single men who have paid over a year’s
rent for houses into which they have never stepped.
Further, I know married men who, despite the fact oi
owning houses, are compelled to pay rent for depart-
mental cribs. The employees are wondering whether
this is robbery, or only economy,
Treasurer Shiels, the Sick Raven of
Victoria, has declared furiously in the Assembly
that he regards Old Age Pensions as a mere State
charity—not as a duty owing by the State to its
worn-out taxpayers in their later years. He also
said that he knew of 37 cases of undeserving;
people among the pensioners ; that in some dis-
trict which he refused to name some person,
unspecified had informed him that 80 per cent, of
the pensions went in drink ; and that in another
anonymous district he had it on anonymous
authority that not 5 per cent, of the pensioners
were deserving people. Premier Irvine was
absent, but in view of some of his recent demo-
cratic utterances there are hopes that had he been
present he would have got Shiels.down and sat on
his sparse chest.
When Westralia’s new Governor, Admiral
Bedford, arrives, the ring of British naval and
military administrators in Australasia will be-
nearly complete: only S.A. will lack a fighting
Governor. Whilst it must be said of these new
type Governors that they show, on an average, a
conspicuous superiority in mind and manners over
most of their predecessors of the peerage, Aus-
tralia postpones satisfaction until it is definitely
ascertained what the new Imperial policy is
stuffed with. There is more than a suspicion that
the British Government intends to make a very
resolute effort to secure much larger naval and
military help from Australia. What part are the
Admirals and Generals in the State Government,
Houses intended to play ?


When
you
require
a PIANO—
Remember
They carry the
Hall mark of
Public
Approval.
PALING’S
PIANOS
The
Prices
are
Right.
GOOD as
GOLD.
Good Tone
Good Touch
Good Workmanship
Call or
Write for
CATALOGUES.
Ab«ad of
ALL OTHERS
Palincs
Stock also,
VIOLINS
CORNETS
BANJOS
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
AUTOHARPS
CONCERTINAS
ACCORDEONS
In
fact
EVERY KNOWN
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT.
BAND
INSTRUMENTS
OE ALL KINDS.
STRINGS and EITTINGS
•
If you do not see the instrument you
require enumerated above, Call
or Write to us; we will gladly
show you our immense stock, or
forward CATALOGUES EREE
W. N. PALING *O’ L TB 338
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
And at
Brisbaoe
Newcastle
Hydatids Again Conquered
BY
VITADATIO
63 Cambridge-terraee, Wellington, N.&.,.
November 7,.’01,
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I write to' tell yet*
of the wonderful cure wrought by VITADA'PfO rw my
case. I was very bad, as you know, with Hydatids
when you recommended me to take VITA>DATIO m<
June, 1896, being hardly able to get about at all. After
taking several bottles the Hydatids began* to come away
from the system. I have taken about 20 bottles in all,,
and may say I am thoroughly cured. VITADATIO 1 is*
evidently nothing short of a miracle-worker, and I have-
much pleasure in recommending it to all who suffer'
similarly. The cure took place five years ago and. haves
been well ever since.
I am, dear Sir,
Yours Gratefully,
IiOBIiMA Ji LITTLE.
Witness— Ben. F. Gardener.
For further particulars,
S- A. PALMER,
ISI Pitt Street, Sjjdnei/.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials..
The price of medicine is 5/6 and ff/6 per bottle.
artificial limbs
with AA mArks
patent
rubber
feet ««d
HANDS
ARE THE best
PROCURABLE.
Sole Agents and Manufacturers:
DENVER
281 CEORClCSTr,
S YDNE'f.,
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne; •
a a and Prices On application.
Newman's
Antiseptic Pastilles.
HK F0R all Affection* w tfik Thro-at,
TRV THEM. PRICE-ONE S94ILLJNC.
Pharmaceutical*. Chemist,,
HiO«s2:>88. 82 KING-ST., SI DtNEY.
Wfi en Toutcher, M.L.A., came forward in
Vic. A assembly with a motion containing a harm-
less ea pression of opinion that there is no further
need for imported State Governors, which is
prettj' obvious to everybody except the people
who M ant those personages to open suburban bun-
strugg ;les, Irvine rose to say that the motion was
not in order, any more than it would be to suggest
that h here was no longer any use for a king. Also,
he stated that poor, collapsed old Dunky Gillies
had pondered over the situation in his sick room
and considered the motion neither decent nor
propejr. The House was too sorry to laugh. As a
matter of fact, Gillies has pretty well given up
considering anything nowadays.
Mr* G. W. LORD, Silver Lake, Maine, writes:
“ I have used Jayne’s Expectorant for twenty years,
and AM SURE THAT IT SAVED MY LIFE in one
or two instances.”*
It is only luck that is deferring an
awful railway smash in Victoria. Travel-
ling Adelaidewards through the Wimmera
district one can see broken sleeper-ends tilting
up as the engine passes over them. Also
many old and utterly useless messmate sleepers
are still in the road. further, thousands of
sleepers, though unbroken, are too defective to
hold the dog-spikes, which in many places may be
drawn with the fingers. The maintenance gangs
are effecting some renewals, but, with a day a
week off, it’s slow work. All of which goes to
show that if the belated repairs aren’t taken in
hand suddenly, the smash must come, and a
terrible sin of omission will lie on the doormat of
the Irvine Government.
Missing Friends.
IF GEORGE KENNEDY (son of GEORGE and MARGARET
KENNEDY), formerly of Ararat, Victoria, wifi
communicate with the undersigned, he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
if dead, his representatives should communicate
Any information acceptable.
r. j. mcoullough,
Solicitor, Barcaldi.nk,
QUEENSLAND.
IF this should meet the eye of ANDY MILLON,
who left Taihape, North Island, New
Zealand, some 6 years ago, or any friend
knowing his whereabouts, would he or they kindly
communicate with the undersigned, who will
supply news of beneficial character.
G. N. JENSEN,
Taihape,
North Island. New Zealand.
Glorious Rains at Last!
More Hopeful Prospects.
Now that the drought really appears to have
brokeh, and prospects seem more hopeful, you
will feel inclined to invest in a Waterproof or
Oilskin Coat. In which case, post your orders to
Charles Gilbert, the Specialist in Men’s Wear,
Queen-street, Brisbane, whose values in these
goods are notoriously the best in the Common-
wealth. All coats guaranteed Waterproof, with
sewn and taped seams, at 215., 2c>s., 30s. to 50s,
Oilskins, 15s. 6d., 17s. 6d., 225. Gd. (leather-bound
and double-lined). Carriage paid to any address.
Send a trial order to-day for anything in Men s
Wear.
THE
Callagbai) Special
FOR MEN
V
A
ys*
POST
AND
DUTY
FREE
17/6
A HARD
i
WEAR
BOOT
EOR
HARD
TIMES.
Gentlemen’s French Calf Lace,
leather lined, pointed,
medium or broad toes
16 6
Delivered post and duty free to
any address in the Common-
wealth, upon receipt of
17/6
Our precise knowledge of the out-and-out value in this VERY Special Boot—a hard-wear
boot for hard times—is justifying our expectation that we should sell many thousands
of pairs. You would not hesitate a moment about buying a pair were you able to call
and see the boots in our window.
Order a pair to-day, remembering that our system of exchanging goods'or returning
money enables you to see and try on the boots, without any risk to yourself.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce sir., Sydney.
Please remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
sfr
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
axr.srw.
fflont deplete Ltd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manages,
'—THE—'
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robirt*
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88.299-assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,/67,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eouitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
file Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J P Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp &Co Ltd)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL A7OO.OQU
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
‘ t "h r oTd, L ““ , .°' Sl, “ e : 250100 ... 5380.0 W
HL* Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 176,239
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,000
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 26 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting (Jompg.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
-DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN. Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
The savings bank
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
Properties: and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yearly.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4£ per cent, for 31J years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-QeneraL
29 Market-street, Melbourne^
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. latd. of liondon.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Parlanb ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Karouhar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
l3l Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
2,000,000
500,000
Total Capital •• £2,j00.000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £9576 13 4
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROVVM AN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
Our No. 56 ACETYLENE GAS Catalogue
s the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Slocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st.,Sydney.
Skipping.
3XT. X). L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First-Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, !NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIN. Ist APRIL.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via OAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000*ton Steamers.
PERSIC to Sail on or about 20th MARCH.
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC,
to follow.
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 27 0 0
25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
agents.
Huddart, parker & C°’s Dine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORT’S.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
-A. 3NT X>
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
FASTEST ANP BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
JBauh of New South Wales*
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
2,000,000 0 0
1,300,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,300,000 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uthbr, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T-ae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business. . .
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE,
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
riodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade — viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address—
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE. MELBOURNE. AUSTRALIA.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingih constitution
to lesist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
1 debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation ”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“Jf ha* all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion t and
it does not blacken the teeth "
*0! 0 BY CHEMISTS All. THE WORf.D OVER
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA )
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., ITT).
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Admitted by Everyone as the
Finest Route to Europe.
Crossing Canada in Summer with
Choice of Rail or Steamer Route on
the Great Lakes*
CHEAPEST ROUTE TO LONDON.
STEAMERS SAIL—
March 23, April 20, May 18,
UNION BTEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Medical.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion.
Positively Cures
Swelling Blight, Bunged Eyes, &c.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to G. Specific, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.
Hygienic Water Filters
AVOID TYPHOID, ILL-HEALTH, and DISEASE
BY USING OLJR
Hygienic Water Filters
With Rubber Attachment to fit any Top.
THE CHARCOAL AND SILEX
which these Filters contain is the very
Best Water Purifier Known to Scientists as It
Removes all Germs and other Impurities.
When ordering mention size of tap in use.
PRICEj LARGE
45.,
MEDIUM
SIZE,
25.,
POST
PAID.
Agent- QUEENSLAND : ARTHUR BRAY,
92 EAGLE ST., BRISBANE.
Agent-TASMANIA : WERTHEIMER, BENJAMIN and
ANDERS.ON, HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Agent—SOUTH AUSTRALIA : AUSTRALIAN TRADING
AGENCY, GENDERS BUILDING, ADELAIDE.
Agent—N.S.W. : ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS'
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON & CO., SYDNEY,
and all Hardware and Ironmongery Stores.
If not obtainable at your Storekeeper, send to
Sole Agent, Australasia,
J* LANDES, 108 Pitt St., Sydney.
At Dawn and Dusk:
"V* Daley. In handsome cloth
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and Iron:
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Porta
S.S. Gabo,
Friday, March 13
(To Melbourne Only).
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, March 14.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oalrns
5.5. Sat., March 14.
-S.S. Gabo, Frid., March 20.
5.5. Allinga, Frid., March 27.
j test and Cheapest Itonte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAND COMPANY’S
■ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
* Via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £O6 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
/
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POUT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen's Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U,S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
, EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fNLORODYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c-> bears on
, the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS d
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlohodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ornamental hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
llair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CRAIG Air, AITTTTRTXr,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOS
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St.| Melbourne


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath, Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair,
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
aCCTiECaDa
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomacji, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDf
MAGNESIA,
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
.SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £'s ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
O-Spnng Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s - Ladies Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
’em. more for } our requirements.
193 to 195 Cieveland-strect, Redfern, SYDNEY
OlfK SI'ECIAIi No. 2
ft*li»*roii nt mi) n'hkri ur
K.S.W. U..iliva)s, Station
£lO 10/-
CLOTHED WITH AIR
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering’, possessing all the neces
eary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable am
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom
wended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Aertex Cellular Underwear is a. Sure Preventative against Chills
m
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to Ss 6d
Cellular Lisle Body—
-9s 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Cellular Tennis Shirt*
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. Cd. to 11s. 6d.
* V ■ -■ - '***> ¥,* *4 *;
4* rt r» r* 4* *+,<■
*.'« » 4 • 4 » •
«* ,«*>4* O '49, 4* < >
»'«•**» * » « V « V «»» * • «.♦(
#«. rt <•* o >-.«♦ <>i
•.W * * »
<rl> ■ .:“■/> V* '*♦ « <rt
* . *,«»'»» . f « »■« <> « » « »*
«P O 4* 4P 4> <> «'t 4*
«•*• * • 1
f O <» «•> < e 4 ►
IMM »3fVV » f» 4 - * ► A
' -*> 4^ir
• •* *>
■ P <■> 4*' <-C 4*. 4# ■
A Piece op
Aertex Cellular Fabric.
Fabrics by the yard or piece—ln
Cottons, Bd. to Is. 9d. ; Lisle
Thread, Is. 3d. to 2s, ; Silk and
Cotton Mixture, 3s. 6d. ; Merinos
and Wools, 3s. 3d. to 4s. 9d. ; Silk
and Merino Mixture, 4s. 6d.
Send for Full Price List.
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. ..15 6
C 2 ~ long waist, 14£in deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14Mn., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Biding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips ..15 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. .. 8 6
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
High or Low Necks.
s. d.
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 5 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. .. 7 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 9 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery .. .. .. 10 8
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. .. 9 0
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 23 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon., 19 6
■ m
mm
So—
A prtpY Cp ttfflar Pfl£>nifC<>C White Cotton, trimmed Embroidery,
Aeriex Lcuuiar Lnemiscs>. 8s White Lis i ej heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices, Kin-KeSextri. 1 sizes
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Sole Agents.
ENO’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
‘FRUIT
SALT.’
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. BNO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG..
by.J. C. ENO’S Patent.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, MeJToourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
mm^. — Insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
Use
That Bald Patch will get larger
if you don’t do something.
GAPILLA HAIR TONIC
All Chemists, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, /IND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
INI EVER F~ AIL-3.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
Business, Robbery, etc.
Employees in electric power-houses have fre-
quently to work in close proximity to “ live ” wires, and
their lives are thus in constant danger. Gloves and
shoes of indiarubber, or similar safeguards, afford at best
but insufficient protection, are always uncomfortable,
and often so cumbersome that they are laid aside when
possible. Professor Artemiew, Of Kiev, has now in-
vented a complete dress which envelopes the body from
head to foot, hands and all; woven of the finest copper-
wire, it is so light and pliable that it does not seriously
impede the movements of the wearer. The perfect pro-
tection it affords was demonstrated by its inventor to an
assemblage of Berlin electricians. Clothed in the fabric
he moved fearlessly between wires carrying 150,000 volts’
and drew from them towards his body loudly crackling
long sparks, and large luminous arcs without receiving
the slightest harm.
* * • •
“ Boro ”: Jewellery and trinkets which get into
the hands of the Sydney police and are not claimed are put
up at auction, and the proceeds are devoted to the police
fund. As worked, this scheme is simply a mixture of
lottery and swindle. The buyer is often outrageously
victimised. The articles are put up, like certain customs
overstocks, “ with all faults.” Enough time for examina-
tion is not giiven and many of the articles are undercover
so that there is nothing but the description to go by!
Often worthless Brummagen is sold at good prices
* * • •
S.A. district-council clerks are putting forth
various claims as to having no rates in arrear. Gawler
claimed that it had collected every penny of its rates for
three consecutive years. Laura claimed a record of five
years. Then a remote spot called Rapid Bay broke up
the show by alleging that it had never had any rates in
arrear, an agile clerk having run down every ratepayer
before the close of the financial year ever since Rapid Bay
existed.
• * • *
There was a time when nearly every agricultural
implement to be found in Maoriland was made in the
local factories ; but of late years the Murkan brands have
been increasing so rapidly that they almost equal the
others. The local manufacturers have taken alarm, and
it is intended to apply to Parliament for a greater
measure of Protection. The Murkans are Bellin<>- ab-
solutely below cost in order to capture the market and
ruin the local factories, and if the latter can be done the
Volcanic Isles will then be made to pay through the nose
and make up the money lost in destroying their own
industries. In the meantime, the five firms who carry on
the agricultural-machine-making business, have formed
a combine on rather original lines. After a payment of
6 per cent, on the capital involved and the provision of
reserve and emergency funds, all remaining pfofit is to
be divided equally between employers, employees and
buyers. The combine hopes, by the abolition of
internal competition and the saving of expenses con-
sequent on co-operation, to sell machinery at present
prices and have from 10 to 15 per cent, profit on capital
for the final distribution. Apparently the combine is in-
evitable, and it is better to have to deal with a local com-
bine subject to the local Arbitration Court, composed
of men who live in the country, and spend their profits
there, whatever they may be, than with the outside
combine which is beyond all local regulation.
• • * •
“Eko ”: Isn’t it about time the tail of the
second-hand dealer was trodden on ? I don’t refer to the
old clo’ man nor the marine dealer—they, as a rule, are
pretty fair dealers. The man I mean calls himself a
jeweller or a tobacconist, and styles his biz. “ Provisional
Purchasing.” He gives you £1 for your watch or ring,
you retaining the option of repurchase within a month
for 255. or 305., or 355., according to your- apparent
verdancy. I hold no brief for the pawnbroker, but he
deserves fair play. He pays a big license fee, must keep
the article six months, can charge only Is. in the £, must
keep a strict account of his pledges, and is directly under
police supervision. Now the Provisional Purchaser pays
no license fee, keeps the article a month, charges any-
thing he can get, keeps no record, and does, in short, as
he darn well pleases. The pawnbroker has mighty little
chance now qf getting “.stolen property.” As soon as a
theft is reported, the police are off to every pawnshop in
the district. They look up the pledge-books, and, if any
article answers to the description of the stolen
one, it is produced and inspected. Then follows a
description of the pawner, and his funeral commences.
But the P.P. is different. The police are not likely even
to know that he ever bought anything from anyone. If
he should be questioned, there are no books to put his
show away. Here’s a case that lately occurred in a Vic-
torian town. A decent young fellow, hard-up, “ popped "
his diamond ring for a week. A lady missed hers and
reported loss to the police. They made inquiries, and
got the decent young fellow’s at the pawnshop. The
lady identified it as hers, and he was arrested. A day or
so later a boy told a policeman he had seen another boy
with a diamond ring. This was then traced to a jeweller’s
shop. It was already broken up ready for the smelting
pot. This was the ring, and the decent young fellow
was discharged. Another day and it would have been in
the pot. Of course, it may be said that any legislation
in this direction would be detrimental to liberty: but
be that as it may, I maintain that when you see k
fence you should straightway chop him down.
J.F.D.” . “Scotty the W.” knows nothing
about tea when he says “the threepenny separate pots
with bread, scone or bun, iri Sydney and Melbourne, are
delicious : better than all the swell restaurant brews."
Are they ? _I just iriet a tea agent, the smartest in town,
who showed me a list Of cheap restaurants they were
Wl i h L a lir ? e at Hid. “To beat M'Dougall’s
shilling line, he said. I glanced down the list, and
when I left him wrote as many of the names as I could
think of down in my pocket-book.
* * * *
“L. 8.” : He ring confidence trick (B. 7/2/’O3).
Once struck a slight variant on usual scheme. The
sharp being shown the way to Circular Quay, picked up
a packet with ring wrapped up in a George-street
jeweller s bill-form, receipted for £3 10s. Offered to sell
it to writer for 10s. Went to borrow the half-quid at a
shop where I was known, and left the other party to
wait. Happened to nod to two plain-clothes men on my
way. When I came back the gentleman had left.
• * * *
Related that, some time ago, a successful pros-
pector, while on the way from Albany to Adelaide,
amused himself by throwing sovereigns at a gull which
was hovering astern. Nearly 90 coins had plunked into
the sea when an exasperated skipper rushed him and had
him locked up for safety* Five months later the
Sovereign Fool bolted back to W.A., leaving a destitute
wife behind him ; and when seen quite recently he was
washing up dishes in a coffee-stall.
• * * *
.The Bank of New South Wales has opened a
quaint, little branch office oh Simeon Lord’s corner, Pitt-
st., Bridge-st. and Macquarie.place, Sydney. The original
grant to Lord was 1 acre 7 perches, given over 100 years
ago as a lease and converted into a freehold in the first
instance by Colonel Foveaux during the suspension of
Governor Bligh, and confirmed by Governor Macquarie in
1810. In 1817 the bank was established and opened for
the transaction of business in a house belonging to Mrs.
Reibey in Macquarie-place, so that after a lapse of over 80
years it comes back almost to the old spot.
* • * •
“The Lad” supplies a commercial item :
“ How does this strike you for accuracy in weigh-bridges ?
Was recently staying in a northern S.A. town, which is
one of the dustiest shops I’ve struck yet. Now, on the
most dusty road of this very dusty town is a weigh-bridge
on which the neighboring cockies are wont to weigh their
hay and wood. A rumor got in the wind that the bridge
was ‘skew-whiff,’ and the cockies thought they were
getting done—-cockies are always suspicious. They
moved in consequence to the other weigh-bridge—the
township boasted two. Now the owner of the first men-
tioned bridge didn’t concur at all with the new arrange-
ments, for, being the proprietor of the nearest
pub, he lost considerably more than the price of
weighing. Accordingly he issued a declaration to the
effect that the bridge would be tested publicly, just to
show the cockies how stupid it was to be suspicious.
He got a ton of limestone and deposited it on the bridge
at a certain Saturday noon, all the dwellers capable being
assembled to test the bridge (likewise drinks). It tallied
one ton exactly—the bridge was true and the publican
jubilant. Just then, when all were watching, the lever
went up. What a moment ago weighed one ton, now
weighed more. The owner was sorely perplexed, but on
looking out of the bridge-house window the cause of this
discrepancy was ascertained. A fox-terrier dog was
leaning up against the limestone. The crowd cheered
.. . then beered. Truly this must be a record for
delicacj l of weigh-bridges, and all this occurred in a town
by nature dusty.
• • • •
“Buzz”: Shipments of tinned meat are going
north every week. Some thousand cases went to Towns-
ville a few days ago, and the Queensland ceutral district
has had two very large consignments lately. Frozen rab-
bits also are being sent to all the northern ports by every
boat. There are both sheep and cattle at the back of
beyond, but the vast dry belt that lies between them and
the coast is not crossable, and may not be for years yet.
So far there is no sign of the drought breaking in Central
Australia, and there is plenty of evidence that droughts
have lasted from 15 to 20 years in the past. So why not
this one ?
• • * •
N.S.W. Government Analyst Hamlet and the
Court argued thus the other day :
Mr. Hamlet: “If sugar were added to such a small
quantity of raspberry syrup that the fluid would contain
only an infinitesimal flavoring of raspberry, he would
pass it as genuine raspberry syrup.”
The Bench: “But that would not be of the quality
demanded. If there were 99 parts of sugar and water
and only one part of raspberry, would it still be raspberry
syrup?”
Witness : “ If I could trace the juice of the raspberry I
would pass it as genuine syrup.”
Does N.S.W. keep a public analyst to pass as genuine a
compound which only contains a trace of what it pre-
tends to be?


| FACILE PRINCEPS. ] | SEMPER IDEM, |
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
Messrs. Fairfax and Roberts, who have
been favored with every Optical appointment
issued from Government House for nearly a quar-
ter of a century, have again received the honor by
being appointed Opticians to his Excellency the
Governor, Sir Harry Rawson, R.N.*
Great Britain sent out 387,116 emigrants
in 1902— the number of people who thus fled from
the curse of Freetrade being 84,541 more than in
1901. And of these 387,116 emigrants, 299,854
made for Canada and the United States, the two
most heavily protected countries on earth. Per-
haps if Australia increased its duties 300 per cent.,
and brought its Protection to the Canadian and
U.S. level, this country might have an immigra-
tion boom.
That treasure of Treasurers, George Turner,
with an eye for any stray “ thrums ” that may be
raked into his coffers, opines that it’s about time
Australia coined its own silver. When Premier
of Victoria he endeavored to make the Colonial
Office see things in a favorable light; and lately,
on his strong representations. Premier Barton
communicated with the various State Govts, on
the matter, but without result. The Treasurer
thinks that the privilege can be secured if the
Commonwealth Government gives a sufficient
lift to the log of remonstrance, and the sum saved
would be about .£30,000 a year.
A Great Judgement.
Few understand the onerous duties of a Judge
upon the Bench. We expect more of him than
from other men. He must be rigid in his morals,
fearless and infallible, and yet merciful in his
decision ; and one whom we can respect. There
is only one higher judge than he upon the earth,
and that is The Public. A judge may err, but
the public never. Public judgement is as certain
as time and tide. The law of supply and demand
is fixed and unchangeable, and the thing of no
merit dies quickly; the thing of little merit
gasps in its birth, and feebly dies out, after being
tried and found wanting. The tide of public
favor demands that which it wants, and refuses
the thing that has failed to suit; and Mr. Richard
Murray, of Green’s Road, Sydney, speaks with
the rising tide : “I have much pleasure in letting
you know the benefit I have received in taking
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I suffered for
many years with indigestion and biliousness to
such an extent that I found life unbearable, having
consulted doctors in every State. I was at last
induced to try your remedy, and I can faithfully
and truly say that I have found them a lasting
benefit, and can. conscientiously recommend them
to anyone suffering from bilious attack* I never
travel without them, and would advise everyone
to do the same. You can use this letter in any
way you think fit, as I think it my duty to let
people know the efficacy of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills.’* Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
perfect blood purifier, and a positive cure for
biliousness, indigestion, constipation, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles,
pimples and blotches, and fur female ailments,
i ut up in amber bottles and the full name blown'
thereon.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Although the solitary system acts badly •»
men, it seems to have a good and sobering effect on bad-
tempered horses. Shortly after the mighty Orme, sire of
Flying Fox, went to the stud he developed a dreadful
temper. He was never a quiet horse in training, but it
was thought he would cool down when his galloping
stopped. But he Soon grew absolutely unmanageable,
and as savage as a tiger. He marked and maimed
his attendants ; they dared not walk him out, and it was
a very dangerous job to even throw his feed to him. At.
last his owner, the Duke of Westminster, gave instruc-
tions to have him shot. While preparations for the
execution were being made, however, someone suggested
he should be kept for a time in a paddock by himself
Getting him to the paddock was a terrible task, but once
there he soon showed signs of improvement, and in a
short time became quite tractable—tar him. When
Vampire, the dam of Flying Fox, was sent to Persimmon
she taught and kicked and carried on so savagely that
hurried word was sent to take her away, as it was feared
she’d kill everyone about the place. A week in a paddock
by herself toned her down to a lamblike disposition, and
since then several other “ man-eaters ” have had a similar
cure worked upon them.
* * • •
The Australian Jockey Club people are queer
cattle. They will not allow a bookmaker who
runs a shop to bet on the courses under their
control, but they register the colors and accept
entries from owners who not alone run shops, but
are registered pony bookmakers. Better far to allow
a shopkeeper to run a book at Randwick than a
horse—for obvious reasons. However, strange as it may
appear, the shopkeepers who own horses are looked upon
by the betting public as amongst the very few horse-
owners who run their horses with as much straightness
as can be expected from a racing stable which intends to
pay its way.
• • » •
Wakeful won the Champion so brilliantly that
tar the moment it seems absurd to think she isn’t a
vastly better stayer than anything she met last Thurs-
day. Three furlongs from home Wakeful went to the
front, and there was only one horse in it. But last year
she went to the front in exactly the same way before La
Carabine came along and beat her badly. This year the
flying mare had only to pass Great Scot as soon as the
three-year-old tired. The Victory never got near her
after they had gone a mile. The Cup winner, who was
to have given Wakeful an awful gruelling, couldn’t go
fast enough to give her even a spoonful of gruel. If the
burly son of The Admiral is really a genuine three-miler
he must have been very “off” when the time came tar
proving his stamina. This scribe having been disposed
to overrate The Victory and underrate Wakeful is not
going to argue against facts. The great little mare has
now won about £15,000 in stakes. Carbine won £29,000,
sohie £ll,OOO of which was Melbourne Cup money. Ho
got £lOOO for running second to Bravo, and more than
£lO,OOO for winning in 1800. And he won two Sydney
Cups. Wakeful thus far has taken only one Sydney Cup,
and third place money in another.
Wakeful made a further addition to her list of
odds-on defeats last Saturday when Chantress gave her
a bad beating. The old mare looked anything but a
champion after the race, though there was nothing very
visibly wrong with her before the start. She had been
off her feed all the week, it seems, or rather she had
been taking tonics tar her jaded “ pecker.” What the
touts mistook for naturally high spirits in Wakeful was
really the outcome of whisky and bitters, or stimulants
to the same effect. Twice out of three times at Caulfield
meeting, and once out of twice at Flemington, when the
odds were on Wakeful she failed to do the trick.
• • • •
Said to be in existence in Australia a “jockeys’’
ring,” embracing many of the leading riders. The ring-
has a special representative to put its money on in the
right quarters. This ring, if current reports be true, has
often a good deal more to say as to the result of a race
than the condition of the horses, the wishes of the
owners, or even the plans of Ikey Mo.
* • » •
Great Scot, as was stated by jockey Barden at
the time, would probably have beaten Abundance for the
Leger had he (Barden) been at liberty to let the big
chestnut make his own pace. Great Scot gallops freely
when given his head, but when he fights with his rider
his action gets out of gear, and he tires He nearly suc-
ceeded in running away with the Derby. The attempt t»
ride a waiting race for the Leger was a failure, so they
allowed Great Scot to go as he pleased in the Australian
Cup, and he was pleased to lead all the way. Abundance:
at his best might have been capable of wearing the-
Lochiel colt down at the finish, in which case the Aus-
tralian Cup would have repeated the V.R.C. Derby-
history. But Abundance was not at his best. Besides,
he was conceding a handicap of lOlbs. to his rival, and
lOlbs. extra is a considerable steadier for a young horse
when the ground is heavy and there are 2J miles to be
galloped. By the way, the owner of Abundance was
very anxious to purchase Great Scot some weeks ago.
Vanity Fair, who was placed in the Caulfield
and Melbourne Cups, seems to have had her temper
soured when she was asked to run off the dead-heat with
Eleanor for the Williamstown Cup last November. The
mare wouldn’t gallop in the run-off, and since then her
habit of boring-out has become a confirmed vice. Cooper,
who rode the mare in the Melbourne Cup, will have
nothing more to do with her.
• • • •
Annotated startling reversal of “form” was
not more unsatisfactory than the handicapper’s treat-
ment of her. If the mare had been running “ sore,” her
defeats were no reason for taking weight off her back,
seeing that as lately as New Year’s Day she won the
Bagot Handicap at' Flemington. Annotate, starting
favorite, carried 8.8 to victory in the Bagot. Last Thurs-
day, when she ran away with the Autumn Handicap, she
had got down to 8.3 in the handicapper’s estimation.
There was another mare in the field —Vanity Fair—who-
also had run very badly twice during the meeting, but’
the handicapper didn’t let her down in the weights.
* • » *
Winner (Emir) of Ascot Vale Stakes t’other
day looks every inch a Derby horse, and would be an
undoubted favorite were there any betting now on the
blue ribbon event. Emir cost IOOOgs. at yearling sales,
and owner refused £4OOO for him last week. He is by
Wallace from Emmie, and consequently full brother tO'
Beanba and Heloise.
• • • •
Unusual, and by some considered impossible,
spectacle of a jockey, permanently with one stable, fight-
ing out a bitter finish in the interests of a casual
employer, and against those.of his “ boss,” was witnessed
at Moorefield R.O. meeting Saturday, when two of
Wootton’s jockeys, up on his Zue and Mrs. Burke’s Athol-
stone, in Kogarah Stakes, battled out from the home
turn to the post locked together—a dead-heat.
• • • •
Rev. Jos. Nicholson, the watchful anti-totalisa-
torian, was to the front again at the Methodist Confer-
ence in Melbourne the other day. Ikey Mo.’s reverend!
friend persuaded his professional brethren to sanction a
petition to the Vic. Leg. Assembly, embodying all the
moss-grown misstatements which pass for gospel in
snufllebustious circles. One clause of the petition
alleges that wherever the tote flourishes “ gambling is
greatly increased ; professional gamblers are augmented
in number ; women and youths are induced to gamble ;
and the increasing experience of these evils in Maoriland
and South Australia is intensifying the public desire for
repealing legislation in those States.” Every one of those
allegations is false, and the falsest of them all is contra-
dicted by Mr. Nicholson’s friend. If professional gam-
bling were “augmented” by the tote, the professional
Ikey would not be its sworn enemy.
• • • •
Vol. 15 of J. J. Miller’s Australian Racing
Chronicle carries the sad turf story from Aug. Ist, 1902,
to Jan. 31st, 1903. It includes the reports of 700 meet-
ings, and the names and pedigrees of 4 000 horses that ran
In the interests of Ikey Mo. during the half-year. And
among the general sporting information afforded by the
Chronicle there is a ready reckoner which tells the
small but hopeful investor how much he can win by
putting a “ bob ” upon a horse at odds of 11 to 10 on, or
100 to 15 against, and so forth. A reckoner which
reduces its reckonings to the requirements of shilling
punters is a pathetic sign of the times.
At Flemington, last Thursday, two horses
belonging to Mr. Jas. Grice were ridden by Richardson,
the jockey carrying overweight in each instance. Firstly,
The Austrian, handicapped at 6.7, carried 6.9. An hour
later “The Endeavor, 6.7, carried 6.12 (A. Richardson).’’
Richardson, seemingly, had grown Slbs. heavier during
the brief interval.
*4l*
M. top-notch trotter Ribbonwood —matched
against Australian Fritz—is but 4yrs. old, and will come
on a lot, or admitted good judges of such things are very
much out. Details of his recent successful assault (first
time asked) on Fritz’ mile record, which Ribbonwood
brought down from 2.13 to 2.11 2-5, are that he had a
galloper pacing him, and did the first furlong in 16sec., and
the half-mile in 65sec. Just prior to thi3 Ribbonwood
trotted in an easy winner of a 2*mile event, secured in
4.35 4-s—another best tar the continent.
• • • •
Second nag (Adjuster) in Australian Cup cost
Westralian sport, Mr. C. N. Kidman, £6O; his share of
the Cup prize-money was £2oo—not by any means a bad
investment, especially as Adjuster has proved such a
good horse.
• • • •
Obit: Mr. Richard Rouse (“ Guntawang,”
N.S.W.), a sterling old sport, tar long honorary starter to
the A.J.C., and 40 years a leading light at Mudgee and
breeder of high-class horses, sheep and cattle. Promi-
nent nags successful in the deceased’s colors years back
were Viva, Nydia, Reprieve and Lord Lyon. First-named
gathered in two Tatt.’s Cups. Mr. Rouse was born on
the Hawkesbury.
* • * *
N. with all its opportunities, is now anything
but a land of milk and honey for the Chosen. Charters
DICK TRESSIDER
(of Newcastle).
Photo, by Godfrey,
Newcastle.
HARRY PEARCE (of Sydney).
CONTESTANTS FOR THE SCULLING CHAMPIONSHIP.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney and Melbourne.
ToweTS 3. C. won’t have the bejewelled one at any price
since he struck. T’other day Mo. offered £lO for the
privilege of betting at each meeting, and tearfully pro-
mised there’d be no more striking ; but the club was im-
movable, and the leather-lunged now stand by cursing
while the tote gathers in a fat harvest to be spent in im-
provements and prize money.
• • • •
It remains to be seen whether F. Burn’s experi-
mental way of riding Freedom over the big sticks will
have any imitators. Burn adopts the Tod Sloan style
even when he is taking the jumps. On Australian Cup
day it was successful. Freedom won. But on Saturday,
when the horse was going splendidly, he came to grief at
a fence, and the Tod Sloan system was blamed for the
mishap.
• • • •
Died, t’other day, one-time well-known M.L.
handicapper, G. Dowse. At time of death « testi-
monial was afoot for him.
• • • •
Race for Australasian professional sculling pre-
miership between Dick Tresidder and Harry Pearce on
Parramatta River, Saturday, was exciting only till the
mile had been negotiated. There Pearce hadn’t a clear
length to the good, though before he had two. A quarter
mile further Tresidder led and stayed till he won, easing
up, in 21min. 25£sec., with Pearce', llsec. behind, com-
pletely pumped. Pearce shot his bolt in the first mile,
and subsequently never threatened the slightest danger.
Betting in the city that morning was 6 to 4 on Pearce,
but weight of Newcastle coin on the boats following the
race made Tresidder favorite, and he started 5 to 4 on.
Time (6m. 2sec.) compares favorably with the best ever
previously accomplished over the same course under like
conditions of wind and tide.
• • • •
Victorian left-hand trundler Saunders well-nigh
gave the records a tilt in S.A.-Vic. fixture. He had a
hand in disposing of nine out of ten wickets in S.A.’s
second innings—clean bowling six, catching two, and the
remaining wicket was caught off his own bowling. The
only other trundler to get a wicket was Collins.
• • • •
The easy march of Lord Hawke’s team through
Maoriland (but why Lord Hawke’s team? My lord never
left England with his men) is no line as to how the Eng-
lishmen will fare against Trumper, Noble, and Co.
•Cricket in Maoriland never seemed to get going. Its
weakness may be guessed when in the All Maoriland
’return match a back number like Charlie Richardson, he
of the crab-agai nst-a-wall style of batting, who flourished
in the old Belvidere days, went in first for his side and
made 1.
• • * •
The Victorian cricketers in Adelaide beat S. A.,
as usual, comfortably but not crushingly. Indeed, an
amazing stand for the last wicket of the match brought
the majority down to 35. George Giffen and Travers
•(the latter reputed no batsman) actually added 101 after
all seemed over. Giffen’s performance in the match was
7 wickets for 75 and 1 for 110, with scores of 81 and 97 not
out—an amazing record for a man of 44. The young
players on the side mostly failed completely. On the last
evening but one of the game, Clem. Hill, as captain, re-
fused to sacrifice his other men on a sticky pitch and
keep himself back for the morning. This unselfish policy
probably cost S.A. the match.
* * • •
“Hermes” : Sydney D.T. has apparently been
making staff changes, with the result that the young
man who usually does Sunday-school picnics and praver-
meetings was turned on to do the M’Coll-Creedon fi«-ht at
Bydney National Sporting Club last week. The religious
alleged steadymarch nose. Within the
Tartarus, revoltsat the sight of a cruise Methodists
Ik?/ ftr beS eSltion ofskUl and
aTayiS
apparatus, strode into the ring, he opped
statue suddenly endowed withhbnHisd PP
hair was silvery gray, and hislimbs were wmw, i
metrical and smooth as marble. The ■*3“? q |^ed
pression was only dissipated when a back * » j
Eim to be slightly bald Sn top. A statue .8 neve bald
From his appearance it was evident that he required at
least two or three weeks more preparation, and then
would have been a perfect specimen of :tfke mha£d-
McColl was as brown as a berry, and nothing UKe as nanu
some His neck and the back of his bead seemed one un-
broken straight line, and be looked an Ul-shapen lump of
bred being battered by the other moved the OT-
voung man almost to tears. It did seem a pity, too.
Sn the first round showed that the aged one had
infinitely more skill and very little less £<»«»..Creedon
used his hands and his body in an artistic tutuon that
was good to see. His blows were clean, fl ul £ k > ttnd
apparently without effort, and right through the ° ld ™ ar )
taught a straight, skilful fight; the crude force of M Coll
could make no impression upon blm ;. knew it
round it became e .en more apparent, and M Coll Knew’it
too, and thenceforward he fought a waiting fight. He
hung on to the other’s legs and hips, and ,P ush ® d ar ! d
backed round the ring as though he was P la J™g footbaH.
In the second last round both men seemed to stagger
about blindly, but Creedon was quite able to take care of
himself. M’Coll was bleeding at the nose and mouth.
Creedon had a cut eye and an abrasion on *“? shoulrter,
and the blood and perspiration (one P art bl . ® s?®?
perspiration) certainly did trickle down their bod ‘ 88 :
Creedon kept glancing anxiously towards his second, and
that official suddenly threw his towel into the ring, ana
the man who had all the worst of the fight and the most
punishment got most of the money.
“Jab.”; Struggle for heavy-weight bruising
supremacy of the continent ’tween Billy M’Ooll
and Dan Creedon at Sydney National S.C. last week was
exciting from go, but was rarely a good fight, beinf
mostly bullocking, head down, on M’Coll’s part, with
t’other man scoring hard punches on all exposed spots.
M’Ooll proved impenetrable stuff, as beyond dazing him
three times and spreadeagling him for 9 seconds once (in
the 4th round) Creedon’s skill and heavily charged
thumps did nothing. In the second round M’Coll was
stupid from a weighty blow, and, ere he recovered
another made him worse ; but all the time (rattled or
otherwise) the champion kept going chockful of grit and
with the one idea that he must win. Creedon brought
superb science to bear and a large amount of force in
the first few rounds, but the human bull in front of
him proved irresistible. Such was the fury of the
thing that the first round lengthened well into the
minute’s spell (until the referee separated the com-
batants), they had not heard the powerful electric
gong. M’Coll floored Creedon for four seconds in
the second round. M’Coll was in a bad wav in
the third round, but a mis - sizing of the situa-
tion on the referee’s part caused a cessation, and
this respite was M’Coll’s salvation. A collision in the
fifth round opened an old wound over Creedon's risrht
eye, which bled freely, as M’Coll’s nose had been doing
for some time. Though M’Coll was bad in the sixth
°I ee ?° r \r VVa - S wor u s .® ar ? d beyond the slightest checking
effort. Twice while Mac rushed and punched t’other
chap signalled unavailingly to his “ corner” to surrender
—a third imploring look was necessary. In another
match (sure to result) both will do better. M’Coll had
been a victim to diarrhoea for ten days before and
Creedon wanted at least two weeks’ further preparation
Sydney D.T. when it wants to, can take a hint
t o T f other da y , it; Published the protest of
the Methodist Conference against “ the cruel and brutal-
the D°T s°ent° ts r slmH Shtin h'”i Very next boxin * match
tne u.i. sent its Sunday-school reporter to be genuinely
nn 16 fho h fc l u e buslness . and a column of shockedeomment
promptly foUowe U d. SPeCUCIe that * ood ma °’° P**
• * • .
Parson-ridden Sydney Daily Telegraph in
blind obedience to a Methodist conference resolution
is indulging m one of its spasmodic flings at boxirc- and
not scruplmg about the means of its attack. Mustv old
authorities are raked up to show that boxing matches
are really prize fights in the eyes of the law” and on!
lookers as well as principals are liable to prosecution •
this in face of the fact that English judges hive ruled
over and over again to the contrary and. less thL two
years ago, Just.ce G rantham decided that boxing matches
as conducted at London National Sporting Club (which is
exactly as they are conducted out here), were notonlv
legal, but free from the slightest objectioiT The Da?, v
Teleqrapii 8 report of the Oreedon-M’Coll scramble was
grossly exaggerated from end to end, and evidenced Thl
repor" of Mond~ht’s bS at Sydney ffijg A ‘o
the thing as he was probably told but the - to i
article which revealed marked Ananias-like plocTvUies^
revved' ” ™ to be
is the fostering parent of* the . Canterbur - y TIMES .
is to be strictly amateur-until ropeTnl^f" which
ora Lal "g. Then there will be a pell nni" 10 ' 13
and the authorities will forget where »v!i n p °“ of > loves »
An uphill task to revive Ihe snort ? Sed 10 be ‘
will not touch ring items, and most of The 33 Associatlon
dally in canny Otago, are bitterly hostil^ 6 P ape . rs > espe-
be made to get round the Press ' An ? * ort Wlll
meeting next month.—Kahork. 9!>ouatlOD at the annual
c t s, n &r.?dXsr,*sisSi; t r“ oo, ‘ ibura
Gate A.U. Saturday night, was Swift G , olden
skilfully «n o, „ A SSJTJJsSa SS&
certain to land the coin whioh a small army of up-country
punters had on him at 6 to 4. But the second 3mins. put a
completely opposite complexion on the battle, for Green
absolutely overwhelmed Roach, who seemed capable of
nothing compared with his showing in the opening round.
Once only (a straight left jab and a right cross on the ear)
Roach scored ; the rest was all Green’s, who was so busy
and effective that Roach couldn’t or wouldn’t face
another round.
• * • *
How the double over-arm (or “ trudgeon ”)
swimming stroke has developed. Much less than a
decade back English swimming scribes wrote it marvellous
that an English champion had swum a quarter-mile with
that method ; then Balmain (Sydney) champion Peter
Murphy used it for half-a-mile, and the swimming world
wondered. By-and-bye some Australians “ trudged ” for
a mile, but the latest feat in that line beats them all.
T’other day Hobbs, of Sydney, swam every yard of three
miles double over-arm, and created a new world’s record
(lhr. 28m. 17sec.) for the distance.
• • • •
A good finale for the Major Taylor season
would be a “ pursuit race ” between that dusky Christian
and, say, four of the fleetest Australian pagans, as dis-
closed in the Sydney Thousand handicaps. The four
pagans could be placed equi-distant round the ridiculous
5. course, and when the Major overtook one, that
pagan should drop out, and the “cullured” person
streak on to overtake the others. It would be exciting
enough for anything, and should be a first-class test of
speed, endurance and pluck.
* • • *
A tyre to be of entire satisfaction must fulfil at
least three desirable features. It must withstand the
effects of sharp flints, undergo high air pressure and
support the rider’s weight. A tyre which satisfactorily
meets these requirements is the new vulcanised Dunlop.
Care should be taken that the genuine article is obtained,
the safest way being to accept no tyre unless it bears the
company's trade mark.*
The Victorian tennis players who stayed on in
Adelaide for the championships were too good for the
local men. Blair and Heath, after a great battle, beat
Bowen and Baker, the local cracks, and in the singles
Blair beat Heath (last year’s winner). The weather
turned hot at the end, and Heath had to be dosed with
restoratives before he could go into the court towards the
finish. Miss Payne and Miss Parr, the Adelaide pair,
again proved quite a class above any lady opponents. -
How the casual English amateur of Lord
Hawke’s team takes his cricket. During recent match
with Otago an English amatah sat in front of the players’
pavilion at Carisbrook reading the latest—in literature ;
wHle skipper Warner was smiting his way into his second
century. Even when P.F.W. made an exceptionally big
hit and was in danger of being dismissed by a catch, the
book-engrossed one read on, merely raising his eyes for a
moment to see what all the disturbance was about, and
with a don’t-disturb-me-again look continued his studies.
A wicket fell, a companion at his elbow gave him a nudge
apprising him that he was next but one man in. The
book-worm placed the novel on the seat, sauntered inside
the pavilion, and returned padded in his right cricketing
mind ; took up the book, and resumed his reading.
Another wicket fell, another nudge, and the padded one
reluctantly placed his literature on the seat and stalked
out to the crease. One ball—a stroke for the grand old
game ; another ball, and (remembering the book on the
seat) played all round it—a clatter of falling timber. The
book had won 1
• • • •
Just dead, George Pinder, Yorkshire wicket-
keeper, contemporary of Ulyett, Emmett, and Ephraim
Lockwod. He played against the Australian teams of 78
and ’BO, and was reckoned to be—on the rougher wickets
of those days—almost unequalled at taking fast bowling,
and especially on the leg side.
• • • •
Vic. Football Association is putting forth big
efforts to popularise the Australian game. To this
end, crack Vic. clubs (Fitzroy and Collingwood) will
send best teams to play a match in Sydney during
May which will rank as a Vic. premiership contest.
Same two clubs also promise to finance their reps.,
leaving “ gate ” to those behind the club-forming move-
ment in N.S.W
* • • •
The ill-luck of Oxenham’s T.M.S. recalls the
fact that little grey flier Sardonyx started 36 times, won
6, ran 13 seconds; three thirds, and was unplaced 14
times. He ran second for the Hawkesbury Grand three
times, twice second for the Summer Cup, twice for
Tattersall's Cup, and three seconds for Anniversary Cup.
He was only a pony, but all there was of him was real
grit.


COUNTRY FRUITERERS
Should send to us for their supplies.
We keep on hand the Best of every kind of Fruit in season.
We don t deal in low-grade sorts. We aim to supply
only the very best at lowest current market prices.
It will pay country fruit-dealers to get into communication
with us.
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. Ltd., SYDNEY
Open
Saturday
Afternoon.
Choose Wisely
Don’t be led away by side issues. Enamel and Nickel don’t make a Bfcycle. Alter the first few
months wear has taken off the smartness, you will want something substantial to rely on.
MASSEY-HARRIS CYCLES
J2# honfst va? np ri fn b l? ty, H tho^ h th ® y v. are decidedly beautiful. It is the construction,
THE HONEbT VALUE in cones, bearings, tubing, and fittings that make “ MASSEYS ” the
first favorite amongst those who buy a bicycle to LAST, and give safety and comfort all the time.
You WOULD DO WELL TO CALL OR WRITE.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches In Every State. 357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEiT WHEN Yu,
BUY A
Double-Barrel .
Hammerless Gun
. * Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n Btock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
REMINGTON
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £is
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGC, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
ONLY A FEW LEFT
of our Large Stock of
SECOND HANDS
We have sold a great number from £3 upwards and each one is guaranteed in perfect order,
fl 11D M pill MnnE « have only a few left first come, first served.
UUII NcW IYIUUCL.O I yUO are in the Harbor, and will soon be on show. Call at once if you
require a cut into the second-hand lot. Another week will see the end of them.
New Sporting' Goods Just arrived -for every sport. High-grade Quality.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., Sydney.
Cardinal Moran and the NSW. Govern-
ment are now effectually estranged. Even
the Cardinal’s best friends admit he has made
a huge tactical blunder, not only in bullying
Owe’Sullivan, but in being foolish enough to
publish the correspondence. Said that Owe’S.
was very wroth at the letters being made
public, although some of his colleagues in the
Ministry enjoyed the situation. The Cardinal
was too sure of his ground beforehand in per-
mitting the Church’s organ to state that his
Eminence would ask for St. Patrick’s holiday
merely as a formal matter, and that immediately
thereafter it would be gazetted. Even John See
got his back up at that.
The members of the Victorian Chamber of
Manufacturers, who got raw throats shouting
down Turner’s Wages Boards, don’t like the
alternative proposal of the Factories Commission
to have a Conciliation and Arbitration Act. At
a recent meeting a person called Scarlett, who
happens to be president, denounced the report of
the commission until his breath gave out, and he
couldn’t denounce any longer. Then other mem-
bers of the Chamber took up the great curse, and,
when they became too tired, it was determined to
take a second wind and bring the matter up at a
subsequent meeting. Scarlett, among a number
of other barbaric remarks, said : “I think we
should ask the Government to be good enough to
leave us alone altogether in regard to wages, and
let employers fix their own wages. They always
did so iii the past, and they are just as capable of
doing so to-day.” But employers did not always
fix the wages of those who worked for them in the
past. When the employer was left quite untram-
melled he did not fix any wages at all. He sent
out ships and collared a mob of slaves, whom he
coupled together like young steers and worked to
death. Then, when he wanted more, he merely
sent out another ship and roped in another mob.
■Scarlett, Derham and co. declare that they don’t
want to sweat their employees. Of course they
don t. Sweating is paying inadequate wages.
1'hese men would gladly pay no waves at. all.
SHARPSNOOTINg
For Sport and War.
By W. W. CREENER
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/* worth ever Published
IP you wish to get good work and vain.
you should purchase W.W. CREENER’
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES
a Large Stock of which are always kept o
hand. Catalogues and all particulars <>
application to—
C. W. BUCK LAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener's Representative).
What a contemptible lie is that of the fat
Tories that Upper Houses are necessary as a check
on hasty legislation ! About the only proposal
in Irvine’s Reform Bill that was hasty—that
hadn’t been considered and talked over and
demanded frequently—was the separate repre-
sentation of public servants, and that was almost
the only item the House of 48 Rich Landlords
failed to review or amend or reject. If its
hypocritical platitude really meant anything, it
should have dallied over such a revolutionary
proposition for at least ten years.
Scarlett, chairman of Melbourne Chamber
of Manufactures, assures all whom it may concern
that if Compulsory Arbitration has succeeded in
Maoriland, it is only because Maori land is “ prin
cipally an agricultural State.” Maoriland, the
Socialistic State with the very heavy Protective
tariff, has, in proportion to its population, a larger
manufacturing population than any other State in
Australasia ; its factory employees increased from
27,336 in 1896 to 48,718 in 1901; and the output
of its factories is almost exactly equal to that bf
Victoria, though it has only two-thirds Victoria’s
population. Therefore Mr. Scarlett may consider
himself a squashed Tory and a bowled-out ro-
mancer.
“ Glenara ” writes :
What a blistering “ front ” these Victorian farmer-men
have 1 After holding an “ indignation ” meeting in
Warracknabeal to protest against the inadequacy of the
Government seed-wheat relief to distressed farmers, a
number of them trotted down to interview Lands Minis-
ter Taverner and beg for more. And the -modest pro-
posal of the cadging crowd was that, as the granted
£100,000 was insufficient, another £150,000 should be
splashed in the Mallee and Wimmera districts. And,
year by year, the brave old Argus comes along with its
“Save the Mallee” and “The Land Our Mainstay"
articles, and G. Reid and his under-studies wander round
the Commonweath cursing violently at “ coddled indus-
tries” and enlarging on the value of “our natural
resources.” No wonder an aggravated community sits
- blasts daily papers and poli-
ticians with a fearful blast.
YVlien To life her, M.L.A., recently moved,
in Vic. Assembly, “that the office of State
Governor be abolished,” he trod on many public
corns. Irvine opposed the motion on the ground
that “our relations with ‘the dear old mother
country’ had to be considered.” He said that
the Governor was the medium between the States
and the Imperial authorities, and he had tried
to maintain the States’ right to communicate
with the said Imperial authorities independently
of the Federal Government. Finally, he darkly
hinted that if the motion was pressed it would be
the first step to depriving Victoria of those rights,
and breaking the close relations which existed
between the States and the Old Country. After
that, the debate was indefinitely postponed with
enthusiasm. Surely if Australia wants to crawl
to any far-off Government, the Governor-General
can wipe the floor with his weskit on our account
without the State Governors to help him.
“ Leila ” on Woman’s Suffrage
Re the troubles of policemen who collect female voters’
names. In our village recently an old Scotchwoman
stamped her foot violently and “ chivvied " the offending:
“bobby ” off the premises. She’d gie her name to nae man
at that hour o’ night" (8 p.m. on a Summer evening).
On this Women’s Franchise subject it’s Bickening to hear
the “ tommy rot ” talked by the man who scruples not to
make white slaves of women. Heard one lately say that
no " pure and lofty woman ” should ever degrade herself
by visiting a polling-booth. I inquired if he minded send-
ing a “ pure and lofty woman ” to milk cows in dirty stock-
yards, or hiring her at starvation wages to go down on her
knees and scrub his dirty floors. He told somebody after-
wards that he was much disappointed in me.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
“John R.” writes (The Bulletin pub-
lishes this with inward misgiving):—
What is the purport of all this row about Mr. Prynnge
stating from the judicial bench the real motives of mili-
tary establishment? Seems strange that such candor
should be considered censurable in a Judge who merely
verified what has been alleged by the Labor party. The
Judge laid down the law as it exists with all its oppressive
incidence. Its outward visible sign is repressive force,
centred in militarism, to which it is useless to oppose
moral force. It is advisable to induce the masses to
peacefully submit to measures instituted to ipake them
pay for the maintenance of force to render the said
masses duly submissive ; to forge their own fetters, as it
were. Alas, for our Judges I Compelled to sit on an
elevated, stuffy bench, bedizened in grotesque headgear
and Guy Fawkes’ toggery, to play bogey to an unsophisti-
cated crowd. And then, should they occasionally move
the gag of official reticence and blurt out the truth as to
the maintenance of “ law and order,” the democratic
press is down on them like a ton of feathers. The
Sorrows of Satan are trivial in comparison with the in-
felicitous position of a Judge addicted to outbursts of
candor calculated to give the whole legal show away.
But even su pposing Mr. Prynnge is a Labor
party emissary giving the show away on the
bench, why need “John R.” thus give Mr.
Prynnge and the Labor party away ?
Rub "Skeeto” on the skin and Mosquitos
won’t come near you.
TESTIMONIAL.
“ The Camp, Jerusalem Bay.
‘‘Cowan Creek,
“ Mr. A. J. Webster, 2/2/’O3.
“ Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in testifying to the
merits of your valuable remedy ‘ Skeeto, ’ which we used
in our camp on the Hawkesbury. There was quite a
plague of mosquitos and sand-flies, but on applying your
preparation we were at once perfectly free from them,
and we must all express our golden opinions in favor of
the efficacy of ‘ Skeeto.’ I shall always recommend it to
my friends.—Yours truly, 0. E. EQLESE.”
PRICE, 1/- per bottle; post, 1/4.
Agents for Queensland —HOEFNUNG & CO., Ltd. ;
CHAS. S. V. MILLINGEN & CO.
Sole Manufacturer—
ALEX. J. WEBSTER, 177 Pitt Street, Sydney
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
’FHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
The Veterinarian.
THE DIFFERENT PREPARATIONS OF
“SALVITIS”
WB HORSES, CATTLE, SHEEP,
PICS, &0. ARE WORTH TRYIKC!
SALVITIS Index of Diseases, Free.
Remedies suggested in this Column promptly supplied
by Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
“SALVITIS”
Ensures abundance
of EGGS and
Healthy foiu/r;:'-
USED BY LEADING BREEDERS—I/-, 5/-, 10/-, 23
SALVITIS ROUP PILLS, 16 per box.
Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—♦
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
pOR NIGH A CENTURY
WILLIAM*’ BARBERS’ BAR
has been the FAITHFUL FRIEND of the
TONSORIAL ARTIST.
TO-DAY, The Potent Phrase, “THIS SHOP USES ONLY
WILLIAMS’!” is a Sure PASSPORT TO PUBLIC FAVOR.
Send a Penny Stamp for Williams’ Face
Puzzle. Can you explain it? J. B. WILLIAMS Co .
Glastonbury,Conn., U.S.A. ; and 232 Clarenee-st., F, * ,y
"CIOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
J- ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the Geperal Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
AV*
r* ‘ c'.
Or) o\:
OP
or) S'
9Po,
Susses
&gSgßsse
oS2o»oj9?Q
cep oraKbo
o^Q
o^°oaEaoSXQ
OqVJKSoQ
JSS
PiTiPoMDO
002 o
oo_oo
oOSp^QOo
o.oeP°o2
OQktlOP
Trade Mark
Vulca.nised
Dumop Tyres'
For Comfort &
Durability.
Guaranteed .for 12 Ilonths.
Beware of Imitations.
N.S.W. Depot:
150 Clarence St.,
Sydney.


c
&
4*
5S
/”V
£
10'3
A
y,
t .. *
m
t"U<A
«
K
>P
7
&r
■■:
--/^(fcfr)vaSfc
~ss.
y/
'v\ ,//
’i jl/,
»\"v 'U*
S*
>£<3o
w
acmMs
1
S
eS«ISS
/
< 3,
8
to:
*>
il@A&ETlii
Pk
Beware of Imitations
*2.
; J
SCS
r-r
f Manufactured by
OGDENS,LTa
L i ’SYDNEY JV.&W.,
VIRGINIA
TOBACCO
a
The leaf used in the manufacture of our
Cigarettes is selected from the finest grown
in Virginia. This State supplies, practically
speaking, the light Cigarette Tobacco of the
World.
As we have exceptional facilities for
buying we are able to give smokers what is
really the choicest and most suitable
Tobacco obtainable. Its special features
are MILDNESS, SWEETNESS, DELI'
CATE AROMA and BRIGHT COLOR,
GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES CON.
TAIN ALL THESE POINTS, and this is
what makes them so popular with discern-
ing smokers.
Ogdens, Limited,
45 York Street, Sycney.
Zola’s gruesomeincident in “DoctorPascal”
of the boy degenerate who bleeds on being as
much as touched, recorded a rare medical phe-
nomenon which was matched at Tarnagulla (vie.)
the other day : —
The third son of Constable Foers who was nearly
thirteen years of age, was seized with a fit of bleeding
from the nose two or three weeks ago, and last week he
started bleeding from the eyes and all parts of the body,
and rapidly bled to death. The medical efforts to stop
the bleeding were unavailing, as when it was stopped in
one place it broke out in another part of the body.
This disease is said to exist as a regular
thing in one part of the world only—a valley of
the higher Andes. Through the lack of air
pressure at that enormous height people of frail
constitution, and unacclimatised strangers, it is
alleged, often die through an escape of blood from
all parts of the body.
An American gentleman, who is almost as
well known in Sydney as Owe’Sullivan, on publio
meetings:—
I can’t understand your people at political meetings. I
vas here right through the Federal referendums and the
oelebrations, when the streets were packed with people,
and they were the best behaved crowds in the world-
better than the British, and better than our people. But
let a man get up to give a political address, and they’re a
lot of savages. In our country, people sit as quiet at a
political meeting as at a lecture. They come to hear
what the speaker has to say, and interruption is practi-
cally unknown. I remember one solitary exception,
down Carolina, among a pretty rough crowd. There was
a woman speaker, a regular he-woman and very aggres-
sive. They were not used to women speakers, and there
was a bit of interruption and something was thrown, not
at the speaker, but to create a disturbance. After all,
there wasn’t as much interruption as there is at what you
call a good meeting here ; but next day it was over the
whole country, and that place was taboo and they
couldn’t get a speaker to address a meeting there on
either side for quite a time.
Harry Morant and his sorry fate, told of
in “ Bushman and Buccaneer ” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Pietersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Booksellers and Bulletin office (post free Is. Id.)
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
B ? OU i •? d J °?’ t perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis.
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
H'ncn l T ,in „ Gr ? t Britain, 1/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England
Agents t iELLIOTT BKOS., Sydney. Purchasers sfiould
look for theregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on tach box. (Regd. copyright).
il <
w
FREE TRIAL
for 90 Days^*-
Not a penny down. Simply drop me a postal
card, with your name and address, and I will forward
you at once one of my latest Improved High-Grade
Electric Belts. You can use it for three months, then
pay me if cured, and the price will be only half what
others ask for their inferior belts. If not cured, you
can return the Belt to me, at my expense, and YOUR WORD WILL DECIDE. lam
willing to trust you entirely, knowing that I have the Best and Most Perfect Belt used in
Australia to-day, and nine men in ten always pay when cured.
• I WILL TRUST YOU.
This modern Belt is the most perfect and complete ever invented. It will cure all
cases of Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and
Stomach Complaints, Nervousness, and all Weaknesses of Men and Women.
FREE
A beautiful, illustrated Medical Book, which should be read by all weak men. This
will be sent I ree, sealed in plain wrapper, all charges prepaid. It is free, and can be had
for the asking.
. Don t neglect this splendid opportunity to regain your health. We will make a
written diagnosis of your case FREE. Write To-day.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
T^^nfhSnd I sufSrerTfSmDEBILITY*POOR B 'ilEMOHY“w”\k“p?NE Y .^ ills , wll j£ h I ? ave rI CU f re t f f W
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live' TrMfm o p«+ G i lA p GE ; eit ]l er in .*>« offices or by post. So don’t despair, but
atTi a t twti TTTm . „ _ ■ -treatment by Fost a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d,, posted.
Blood and Skin ™*. B„ dder , .„a M
A - .. ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women SL*SzSr£B* sh °'" d - - HERR
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes 6s • Pnn qo firl
UVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS B S ‘
Hi. RHEUMATIC P.LLG arc World-temM, hi" V|L« POWDERa* ' 9 ’ .
1 ” _is KILE POWDERS never Fail ; 6s. per box each.
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office-
547 George St., Svdnev,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORLIE: 111 Hannan St.
7 */ V '
FREMANTLE ■ 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
Sles, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
jments. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Skin -Tortured Babies
r AND TIRED MOTHERS
Find Comfort in Guticura
Instant Relief and refreshing sleep for Skin-tortured Babies and 1
rest for Tired Mothers in warm baths with Cuticura Soap, and ,
gentle anointings with Cuticura Ointment, the great skin cure and
purest of emollients, to be followed in severe cases by mild doses of
Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the bloody This is
the purest, sweetest, most speedy, permanent, and economical treat-
ment for torturing, disfiguring, itching, burning, bleeding, soaly,
crusted, and pimply humours, eczemas, rashes, irritations, and
itchings, with loss of hair, of infants and children, yet compounded.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautifying
the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
Stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and dialings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspira-
tion, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative,
antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. No other
medicated soap ever compounded is to be compared with it for preserving,
purifying, and beautifying the skin, scalp, hair, a.nd hands. No other
foreign or domestic toilet soap, however expensive, is to be compared with
It for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Thus it combine*
In One Soap at One Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the
BEST toilet and best baby soap in the world.
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
Cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
ConctTßA Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towirs A Co., Sydney. British.
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouae Sq., London. French Depot: fi Rue de la Faix, Fans. Potter Drug akd Chew
Corf., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
GUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA
• LIMITED •
BALANCE-SHEET, 30th AUGUST, 1902.
LIABILITIES.
Capital,£4,soo,ooo. Less:
Reserve liability,
£3,000,000.— Paid-up'. .£1,500,000 0 0
Reserve fund (invested —
in the names of trus-
tees —as per contra) .. 950,000 0 0
Contingent account .. 50,000 0 0
Balance of undivided
profits .. .. .. 80,143 17 10
; £2,580141 17 10
Circulation .. £453,815 0 0
Deposits (including in-
scribed stock deposits) 15,261,293 17 2
Bills payable and other
liabilities (including
reserves held against
doubtful debts) .. 1,661,719 13 1
£17,376,828 10 3
£19,956,972 8 1
ASSETS.
Specie on hand, and cash
balances .. ..£4,034,803 19 10
Bullion on hand and in
transitu .. .. .. 240,236 13 1
Money at call and short
notice in London .. 1,005,000 0 0
Investments —
Reserve Fund: —Consols,
£600,000 ; local loans
(Imperial Government
stock), £200,000 ; Na-
tional War loan,
£150,000 £950,000.
Other Investments :
Consols, and other
• stocks of, or guaran-
teed by, the Imperial
Government, £115,885
19/9 ; India Govern-
ment sterling stocks,
£265,430/11/3 ; British
municipal and colonial
and foreign Govern-
ment stocks and deben-
tures, £126,737/12/ . . 1,458, "51 3 0
Balance of remittances
and drafts in transitu
and bills receivable at
London office .. .. 1,114,570 12 4
-£7,852,665 8 8
Bills discounted, loans and other securi-
ties at the branches and in London .. 11,379,646 7 0
Bank premises and property in the
colonies .. .. .. •• .. 596,719 2 7
London leasehold premises, £142,304/19/4;
reserve against same, £14,116/8/6 ; six
months’ interest thereon at 3£ per
cent., £247/0/7 —£14,363/9/1 .. .. 127,941 10 3
£19,956,972 8 1
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits at 28th February, 1902
Bess : Amount applied in reduction of contingent account in terms of last report
Out of which a dividend was declared of .. ..
.. ..£121,213 2 3
.. 25,000 0 0
£96,213 2 3
.. 60,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of .. .. .. •• •• •• •• £36,213 2 3
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad and doubtful debts £225,915 4 6
Less :
Remuneration to the local directors- and salaries and allowances to
the colonial staff .. .. •• •• •• £77,154 1 0
General expenses in the colonies—including rent, taxes, stationery, &c. 30,015 9 3
Remuneration to the board of directors and auditors, salaries of
London office staff, rent, taxes, stationery, and general expenses 15,512 10 0
127,984 8 10
97,930 15 7
£134,143 17 10
Deduct :
Amount applied in reduction of contingent account
Appropriation in aid of bank’s guarantee and provident funds ..
.. £50,000 0 0
4,000 0 0
54,000 0 0
Balance of undivided profits at this date
.. £80,143 17 10
ARTHUR FLOWER
W. B. PERCEVAL
H. P. STURGIS J
London, 15th January, 1903.
Directors.
A. C. WILLIS, Manager.
T. C. 0. SAUNDERS, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of “The Companies Act of 1900,” we certify that all our requirements as
auditors have been complied w'ith.
We report that we have verified the cash, investments, bills of exchange, and other assets in London, and have
had access to the accounts sent to London from the various branches in the colonies, and, having examined the
same, and the books and accounts of the London office, we are of opinion that the above balance-sheet is a full and
fair balance-sheet, properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the company’s affairs as
shown by the books of the company.
WHINNEY, SMITH, and WHINNEY. Chartered Accountants, Auditors.
Unionism fa becoming a religion in the
U.S.A. An organisation called the Wives and
Daughters of the United Mine-workers makes ah
entrants swear a solemn oath not to bear children
by non-union men. Up to date this is the
champion boycott. .
if
wants
ea
try
S&FOOD,
JRefuse a////n/tat/ons
Satisfying. Strengthening Soothing for Infants
iAgreeable.Digestible. Nourishing
AGtf/fS FOR SYDfffY,
SAYYRS ALIPORY POTTER
RIDGE'S FOOD ft'ILt'S.LONDON.E*c
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu- i
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
v „ Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
. TRADE MARK .
FOX
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn
the Public that their Trade
Mark consists
ONLY
of the word
FOX
which is a guarantee of sound-
ness of material and Quality
of Dye of all
"Worsted Coatings,
Serges i 2weess
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years
of experience
fox’s pure 3nsigo Dye
is recognised as the best in the
market. All FOX f S standard
cloths are stamped every two
yards on the back
FOX
PURE INDIGO
ana without this stamp are
not genuine. These celebrated
serges can be obtained from the
leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS. & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHSJ
Indeterminate Sentences.
'‘Burglar Bill” (of practical experience) joins in
the criminology debate
" Kiwi’s ” assertions are splendid; they breathe a pride
that has attained full maturity, "The criminal is an-
thropologically, socially, physically, and morally ab-
normal!” What beautifully worded rot 1 If he had
consorted with the “type abnormal” on his own level
during long, long days of mad remorse when the heart
opens with confidence, heard from his own lips the story
of his slip, marked the stumbling-blocks which Fate had
thrown in his way, he would then have the whole inside
life of the poor wretch before him. Take away the
sexual offender (who is in most cases a sexual lunatic)
and the kleptomanic, and you remove the only two
abnormal types. The others are mere victims of fate,
which squeezes them in weak places. I have met men of
“ Kiwi’s ” stamp who considered themselves “ normal ” In
fact, on bail once, one such refused to recognise me. Yet, 18
months afterwards, I shared a “ kit” of hominy with him.
“He does not feel punishment,’’ says “ Kiwi,” “ as we
fancy he does, but we measure him by our own standard
just the same.” This is the assertion of the man who
doesn’t know, and cannot know until he himself, through
some mysterious push, falls, and gazes aghast at his own
position 1 Then ne finds whether the criminal feels or
not, whether the torment of an active brain ceaselessly
working through hours of dull, mechanical labor ana
long, sleepless nights is not hell itself. I hope “Kiwi”
remains in ignorance of what the criminal feels—knowing
just as much as the criminologist who takes the daylight
bravado of the criminal at its full measure. Regarding
“ illiterate warders,” whom Ellis severely condemns,!
have found from actual experience, with my eyes open,
that the illiterate warder (not the brutal warder ; do nob
confuse the two) handles a prisoner much more skilfully
than the supposed educated warder who has received a
smattering of criminology, and whose mind is full of fads
regarding abnormal types, hereditary criminals, etc. I
have seen illiterate warders, in many cases, stop small
gaol ructions which might have ended in riots, just
because they knew the criminal to be a man of their own
type, who had unfortunately struck a greasy patch and
slipped. Place “ Kiwi,” for example, in charge of a
batch of prisoners, and his gleanings from Ellis
and others would breed an instinctive dislike in the
prisoners towards him. No matter how he acted he could
not treat them as men, but only as “ abnormal types.”
As to the indeterminate sentence, all that the criminolo-
gist would have to guide him would be the reports of the
gaol-governor and personal observations of the deputy-
governor and senior warders, and I have found, by long
experience, that the “ gaol-smooger,” full of cunning and
hypocrisy, generally gets the good reports as to conduct*
& c., and generally bluffs the educated deputy-governor
that he is a much-injured person. I have noticed that
this class of prisoner is never friendly w T ith the shrewd,
illiterate “ screw,” who relies on practical experience
only. The prison system of this State is at present being
ruined by a method of superficial cramming, under which
the warder who passes a small tinpot examination, in
which criminology (Duchesne text-book) forms the main
subject, is decorated with a star upon the collar, granted
seven days extra in his annual leave, and is eligible fo*
promotion. That star generally builds a barrier between
the warder and his charge—the warder, with his thimble-
ful of knowledge, suffers from a daily headache in trying
to analyse imaginary things in the prisoner’s brain, ques-
tioning him on the causes that led up to his crime, &c. ;
and the prisoner, if at all sensitive, is chafing under the
examination. Put as warders middle-aged men (not the
boys at present in the service). Let them be humane in
their treatment (this can be done by not giving prefer-
ence in promotion to the warder who has most “ cases ”
before the visiting “ beak ”). Keep away from the
warders’ library all books written by Ellis, Duchesne,
Lombroso, Ferri, and that ilk, and that is about the only
improvement we can make in our existing methods.
And the voice of experience having spoken, let all
men regard.
The "Squire” Curse.
“ Theta ” on landlordism in Vic.:—
There are here, unfortunately, many landowners who
are slavishly copying old-world methods in landlordism.
They have placed on their land, at high rentals, a large
number of tenants, whose treatment is opposed to the
best interests of the community. The general rule is to
let these farms on short leases, so that the tenant is de-
prived of all security of tenure and kept in a meet and
proper state of humility, while the landlord is
able to take advantage of every increase in the
value of land. This increase of value has been very pro-
nounced during the past 10 years, west Vic. grass' lands
that were once let for 15s. or 18s. per acre now bring 355.
or 408., while as much as £3 per acre per year has been
given for choice farms. There are three results, equally
inevitable and equally undesirable, attending this system.
The first is that, as the population grows and competition
increases, the rental value will rise until it reaches
Ricardo’s limit, on which the landlord takes all that is
left after providing a bare subsistence for the tenant.
This limit is within measurable distance already, and
often rents are paid which could not be earned on the
land, were it not that the tenant has a large and strong
family willing to work simply for their food, clothes, and
an annual trip to the nearest race-meeting. The high
rents are mainly the cause of the labor difficulty, of which
so much is heard. The tenant grinds down wages to the
lowest point, gives his men the poorest food, and practises
by compulsion, every mean and petty economy that he
can think of. Finally, the insecurity of tenure makes the
tenant practically a nonentity in his district. He has no
abiding place in the community, so that he is the poorest
of citizens, and shirks his share of all local responsibities.
A quaint feature of the situation is the fact that those
landlords really believe that they are “ settling the people
on the land.” ' At present most of them let their lands
privately, and, in many cases, at reasonable rates. In
doing this they seem to stand astounded at their own
moderation, But even though individuals, such for
instance as J. 0. Manifold, M.H.R., are known as “ good
landlords,” it is certain that in the near future all of
these farms will be let by open competition. As a matter
of fact many of them are so let now. The Warrnamboo
(Vic.) Standard of Feb. 4th has an advt. of an “ Important
leasing of high-class agricultural farms ” —varying from 45
to 170 acres, and all belonging to one man—for which
tenders are invited. In the same district it has long been
the custom to let cultivation blocks at auction, by which
means the last penny is screwed out of the unfortunate
tenant.
We thus have the miserable anti-social spectacle of a
small, rich, landed class growing steadily richer at the
expense of the vast mass of the bone and sinew of the
community ; while at the same time the status of the
tenants is being steadily reduced by the fact that the
mean and poor-living farmer —who can pay the highest
rent —is ousting the decent and good-living tenant.
*
Mr. E. Maxky, of Gympie (Q), writes what
looks like good horse sense about irrigation :
Re the Red Page of a recent issue and Ernest
Favenc’s rhapsodising over glorious results to be achieved
in the cause of irrigation per medium of artesian bores
and conservation of water within convenient natural
reservoirs. Beyond affording a copious drinking supply
to thirsty beasts, what is the good of artesian water?
In many instances, it not only discourages the growth
of useful fodder grasses, hut raises in their place a thick
vegetation of glaring and useless weeds, heavily impreg-
nated with various weird mineral constituents, which no
self-respecting sheep or steer will nibble. Now, as to water
conservation by means of dams or locks. Whatabout Lake
George ? Was it not at least 30 or 40 miles in area with a
maximum depth of 20ft ? It was effectually dried up last
year. Ido not doubt fora moment that there are favorable
storage areas in the comparatively mountainous regions
of Australia—say Monaro, or the Darling and Lachlan
tablelands. But, for beneficial irrigation on a large scale,
you want to take hold of an enormous and characteristic
region such as Riverina. To have an adequate effect the
stored waters must not be hundreds of miles distant from
the arid districts. Where can large volumes of water be
imprisoned, during the infrequent wet seasons, that will
not be remorselessly evaporated by the next big drought
equal in intensity and bitterness to the one of 1895-1902?
Is there another country on the globe that can be com-
pared to Australia in its dearth of mountain systems,
lakes, and rivers ? Where is our Nile or Colorado :
where, even, our desert wells ?


COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.-The ex-
perience of millions of people in all quarters of the
habitable globe during the last quarter of a century
has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos as the
best and safest natural aperient. Invaluable to
diners-out.*
DRYSDALE’S ANTIBILIOU3 PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Timbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
When the uneven M.L.A. loses his
balance and makes unruly observations in “ The
House,” he has in nine cases out of ten been
imbibing inspiration from the bottle with the
wrong brand. The wise parliamentarian or busi-
ness man who adheres rigidly to not too much
D.C.L. never makes an enemy of his head just at
the moment when he needs its best assistance.
He puts a friend into his mouth to enrich his
brains, not an enemy to steal them away. D.C.L.
is the friend of all right-drinking persons.*
QUEENSLAND GOVERNHENT.
Issue of £600,000 Treasury Bills.
PRIOE OF ISSUE, £lO2.
The Treasurer of the State of Queensland, through the Queensland National. Bank Limited,
invites APPLICATIONS for the PURCHASE, at a fixed price of £lO2, of £600,000 TREASURY
BILLS, bearing interest at the rate of Four (4) Per Cent, per annum. , , . ... ,
Six months interest will be payable on the Ist July, 1903. Principal and all interest will be
payable, free of exchange, in Queensland, Sydney, Melbourne, or Adelaide.
Income arising from Queensland Government Treasury Bills is exempted from income tax under
“ The Income Tax Act of 1902 ” (Queensland). . , . ,
Full information will be given, prospectuses may be obtained, and applications will be received
at the Queensland National Bank Limited, in Queensland and Sydney, and the National Bank of
Australasia Limited, Melbourne and Adelaide. , ' ~, . _ _ T _
The LIST of APPLICATIONS will be closed on or before TUESDAY, the 31st MARCH, 1903.
The Treasury. Brisbane. ISth Febrnarv. y
H. F. SMITH
MOST MARVELLOUS VALUE
A SOLID SILYER KEYLESS
Hunting Watch,
Heavy Case, Sound Movement,
Perfect Timekeeper
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
21/-
Posted Duty Free to any part of Australia.
Send for my New Illustrated Catalogue.
QUEENSLAND LEADING JEWELLER
Queen Street, Brisbane
and at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
The NEW CENTURY RIFLE
15s
Each.
Full Length, 35in.; Weight, 31b.; Fires 8.8. Cap, or
22 Long, or 22 Short Rim Fire Cartridge. Takes down
with a single screw. All parts of Best Steel. Per-
fectly Machined throughout. Accurately sighted and
well Rifled for Perfect Shooting. Will toll at 300yds.
Carriage Paid to any railway station in N.S.W. Orders despatched same day.
P.O. Orders payable to
Sydney Small Arms Co., 57 Post Office Chambers, Sydney.
AND CROSSED E.S. AND A. BANK.
A Full Stock of D.D.B.L. Guns, Rifles, and Revolvers always on hand.
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
M ELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
la adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEITY COMPETITION.
WINES **• Besl *°* °> SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS, Ao.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
THE DEAF HEAR.
Deaf persons need no longer despair. Out of the mass of failures has eomA
genuine success. Head noises can be cured and the deaf made to hear.a
effectively that they wonder if they really were deaf. Particulars of a
discovery, based upon the science of Metallio Galvanic Electricity that win
assist all persons suffering from deafness, fully described’
FREE.
By sending your name and address to THE L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64 Hunter-at MvHn.u
will receive a full description of this remarkable method, which will enable you to restore*
hearing at a very slight expense. The description is posted to you free, and you will be deliahr.*? fVTi. 7 l our
easily you can obtain relief. It will pay you to write to-day. Don’t neglect to do so. gtd '** rn how
An instance of real friendship is the case
of that North Melbourne man who had his ear
bitten off by his mate in the course of a discussion,
but refused to prosecute lest the mate should be
offended. The love of David and Jonathan never
stood such a test, for Jonathan, so far as we know,
never chewed David.
PERSONAL.
In the Estate of ROBERT BRENT, late of
Woodbury, in the County of Devon, Eng-
land, Doctor of Medicine, deceased.
Francis Frederick brent, Com.
mission Agent, who left Hobart, Tasmania,
on or about 19th November, 1901, is requested to
communicate with the undersigned, who have
news of great advantage and importance to him-
self, as his share in the above estate is now payable
to him.
Information respecting his whereabouts is
urgently desired.
BUTLER, MoINTYKE & BUTLER,
Solicitors,
Murray Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
Amusements.
-p H E MUTOSCOPB. -
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
now on view at
KING STREET ARCADE CORNER
and
74 OXFORD STREET.
Real Life Portrayed with a Vividness and Realism
Never Before Witnessed.
ADMISSION FREE.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
BLAND HOLTB Latest Melodramatic Production,
THE COTTON KINC.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 14, THE WORLD.
POPULAR PRICES—3s„ 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy's.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager Mr. Frank Weathersby.
A CROWDED DELIGHTED AUDIENCE GREETED
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
as
DANDY PAT, THE ACTOR DETECTIVE
(•* IV* all right! It’s only Dan !”)
In the Sensational Comedy-Drama by Geo. R. Sim»,
WHEN THE LAMPS ARE LIGHTED.
The Humorous Sketch,
••THE SOLDIER and THE NURSEMAID."
“ PUMCULI FUNICULA."
MATINEE, EVERT WEDNESDAY, at 2 p.m.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. fld. A Is. Box Plan and Day Sale
at White Rose Confectionery, Royal Arcade, 269 Pltt-st.
HIATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
Manager, Mr. T. P. Hudson.
SENSATIONAL SUCOES of MISS NELLIE STEWART
and George Musgrove’s New
ENGLISH DRAMATIC COMPANY.
SATURDAY, MARCH 14th,
ZAZA..
(NELLIE STEWARTB MASTERPIECE)
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pALACB THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Management of Messrs. WILLOUGHBY
and GEACH.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
SPLENDID SUCCESS of
TNE WRONG MR- WRIGHT
A COWAN, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harrt Rickards.
Re-appearance for a Short Farewell Season of
THE SCHENK BROS.
Splendid Reception of Mr. JOHN COSGROVE.
Enthusiastic Reception of MR. JOHN COLEMAN.
Big Success of London’s Great Comedian and Raconteur,
MR. W. 0. HUNTER.
BPRY and MONTI, PEARL LOVELL, MALVENA
MOORE, PROFESSOR MACCANN, EDNA SEATON,
and all our Great Tivoli Co.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS,
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.3ftjwn.
Enthusiastic Reception of MISS C RAC IE EMMETT.
Splendid Success of FRED POPLAR, MlsB KITTY WACER,
DIAMOND DUO.
ELSIE M'LACHLAN. LES WARTON. MAY LEWIS.
BIOSCOPE.
Prices—2g. 6d., 25., Is. ‘ta Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Return of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE'S
GRAND COMIC OPERA CO.
EVERY EVENING. SECOND WEEK of
THE FORTUNE TELLER,
A New and Original, Romantic Hungarian Comic Opera.
The Finest and Most Expensive Production of Comia
Opera Ever Given in Australia.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan's.
■THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON'S Famous Dramatic Organisation
EVERY EVENING,
In the Great Sensational Drama,
ZUC A 3XT 9 S ENEMY-
headed by Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Lessee, Mr. G. H. Hunt. Manager, J. F. MacMahon.
WOODS-WILLIAMSQN CO.
in Maud Williamson’s Dramatisation of Hall Caines
Famous Work, “ The Deemster,’’
entitled,
THE GATES OF BONPAGE
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
LAST THREE NIGHTS of the ROYAL COMIC
OPERA CO. in THE GEIBHA
TUESDAY, MARCH 17,
THE EMERALD ISLE,
The Last Work by the Late Sir Arthur Sullivan.
PRICES AS USUAL, fa Box Plan at Allan*
They sat right up in the back row of the gallery. He
had his arm around her waist, and she rested her head on
his shoulder. He bought her a packet of peanuts and a
bottle of lemonade and she was in heaven. They cheered
the hero and hooted the had nobleman—at least she did.
He was thinking. Then oame the heroine with her little
baby that toddled up to the knees of the bad nobleman
and cried, “ Daddy, Daddy.” “ Ob,” said the girl, wiping
her eyes, “ it’s crule.” " Shut up,” said the man, “ turn
your hose off.” It was over, and they went down the
long steps, out across Hyde Park, and home. At the
back gate he was leaving her and she was crying.
Jack, Jack, why don’t you act the man ? Everyone will
know soon.” He had started to walk across the road, but
he turned with a theatrical gesture. “ No, I won’t, he
said. " The flaming, crimson lord wouldn’t do it, so I
won’t.” Then he walked up Duke-street home.
Relations between two theatrical magnates in Australia
are strained. The other night Manager X. and ladies
called at Y.’s theatre, expecting the usual courtesy of the
manager’s box. But Y. was in a nasty mood, and stated
gruffly that he would sooner play to empty benches than
: to-adjective paper ; and anyone could have the box who
lifted to pay two guineas. X. paid the money rather than
look small; he is now waiting till Y. comes his way 1
“ Kaylee”: Yarn re threatened pugilistic encounter
’twixt Alf. Woods and the Mayor and town clerk of
Ararat, reminds writer that Woods is a dangerous mum-
mer for his size. I have vivid recollections of him
threatening sundry large cabmen, liftmen, railway
porters and orchestra-men (several dozen of the latter),
with a wild regardlessness of odds that was very ha *•
ful to behold. In a previous state of existence, Alt was
evidently a soldier ant.
Miss Lottie Lome, now with a variety co. In Tasmania,
is advertised as “ the well-known Imitator of her
(Johnnie Coleman’s) scarecrow dance." It seems as if
that dance is an asset that will support the whole Cole-
man family.
Inaudi, now appearing at Melbourne Opera House, was
asked on what day of the week Feb. 80th would fall In a
certain year. He fell Into the trap and answered
“ Wednesday.”
A Hindustani groveller composed a Coronation Song
for the Delhi Durbar. One verse of it:
“ In regal robes enthroned on high
Big princes thronged around :
A mother’s son 1 O sea-girt isle 1
Thrice happy, happy ground I”
A blaok grovel comes to pretty much the same thing as a
white grovel. In his next verse the bard exhorts all
people, young and old, to come and feast their sight on
the inoffensive stout gentleman who had given rise to the
Durbar.
The spread of the novelette “swagger” name. Mr.
Harry Rickards advertises the new game of “ Push Bali ”
at the Tivoli, and the names of the ladies who take
part in it are Maud, Trixie, Gertie (2), May, Connie,
Emily, Muriel, Marie and Alice. Not a Polly or a Maggie
in the lot 1
Torrey (Charley) and Alexander (Georgy), knockabout
comedians, from Australia, wish to be remembered to old
friends (especially Lucifer). Now at Mildmay Hall,
London.
The latest Paris play—" Leurs Amants is a cynical,
up-to-date study in female infidelity. Heroine wavers
awhile between two lovers, one a wealthy, elderly'person,
quite commonplace apart from his coin ; the other a hard-
working young litterateur. She throws in her lot with
the writer. He continues to be fairly successful as writers
go; her home is comfortable enough, but existence is dull.
A more moneyed life would be less monotonous ; so the
girl leaves her literary friend with calm protestations of
eternal friendship, and goes back to the old man. The
Story is truer to human nature than “ Zaza,” anyway.
This is not an age of romance, as the old fashioned word
was understood when Dumas’ fils wrote “ Camille.”
Romance began to perish with the earliest suggestion of
Woman Suffrage. The first knell of Valentine’s Day was
sounded by the advanced female on a public platform,
and the knickerbocker girl finally buried St. Valentine to
the ting of her passing bicycle bell. “ Romance ”is off
the programme at present. It will break out again in a
hew form after the social rules of sex relationship have
been carefully revised and amended, like the old
Scriptures.
“ T.D.” : The most humorous portion of the A.N.A.
competition, just worked off in Melb., was the series of
dreadful “ musical ” efforts turned off by local composers.
There were over 50 of these, and, in the language of the
newspaper fire reporter, the effect can be better imagined
than described. Each composer secured the services of a
fairly experienced singer to help his (or her) song through,
and in this way a few deserving and not too affluent
people came by an honest half-guinea or so. Thus the
A.N.A. shivoo has at least one thing to recommend it.
But some of the things were so maudlin, or so uncon-
sciously humorous, or so painfully wooden and churchy,
that the singers themselves could not preserve a serious
demeanor, and fled from the platform before they were
half through. In one case the audience became so
demonstrative that the composer herself suddenly quitted
the piano to have a good cry, and left a well-known
concert singer on the platform doing his best for a couple
of bars until he found there was no more accompaniment.
Than he also left, amid unavailing demands for an encore.
“ H.M.” writes to The Bulletin about Ellen Terry and
Henry Irving “ Ellen Terry—what expression and life,
what a voice, what a charm of manner, and above all,
what personality 1 She had invited me to her box, and
we sat through ‘Faust,’ in which Cissie LoftUs was
attempting to play her old part of. Marguerite, She
whispers frank comments on the company, her eyes
laughing and clouding in turn, her face flashing and
changing, her broad, good-humored mouth smiiing in
childish amusement now and then, and her large, capable
hand striking the knee of my startled self in her uncon-
scious anxiety. She is so thoroughly, so disarmingly
natural. She takes you to her heart at once, and you
are her friend. The charm of her manner lies, 1 believe,
in the youth of it. This faded actress of 53 is so
young—only a merry girl. But when, in the inter-
vals, the lights grow bright, you look into the face of
an old, eccentrically-dressed woman, with short-sighted
eyes, with the sweetness of perfect good humor in them
as in her mobile mouth, soft grey hair, and deep, half-
broken voice. And when I asked if the rumor that she
was going to Australia was true, she laughed and shook
her head. ‘Oh no,’ she said, 1 why should we ? ’ So many
beginners go out and copy us ; what chance would we
have ? Why, we would be accused of imitating them and
of being old. Ugh 1 that is the unpardonable sin.’
She told me they have often to evade the too
kind attention of unknown admirers. One day in
Londqn a lady accosted Sir Henry, gazed at him
adprihgly, and said : 1 Oh, you are Sir Henry Irving,
are you not? I want’ ‘ No, Madam, I'm not—l am
very like him, he answered, and took refuge in a passing
cab, leaving the astonished lady gazing after him from
the footpath. And now, a humble opinion of their
acting. 1 had heard so much of the peculiarities
and mannerisms of Irving that I was quite surprised to
find that I could hear him distinctly, and that, at times,
his acting was excellent. 1 don’t deny that he is
peculiar, sometimes even grotesque, but always clever
and interesting. One minute you are carried away by
the force and realism of his acting, and the next you are
irritated by some absurd exaggeration. But there is
always reason in his method. You can see what he
means, even if it does not appeal to you. For instance,
as Shylock. I was at first inclined to be disappointed
when he left out the frenzied ravings, the wild-repeated
cries for his money, his dueats, and his daughter, in the
scene where he finds he has lost them. He seemed quiet,
but later I saw his meaning, and 1 had to admit that he
made Shylock a much higher and more intellectual type
than any other actors 1 have seen. He was the Jew of
Venice, smarting uiider the sense of wrongs he could
never hope to*avenge, not the angry Jew of modern
London, disguised in a gaberdine. I have seen nothing
more artistic than his exit from the court, the blind feel-
ing for the door, the hopelessness of the face, the silence
—nothing could have been finer. One might say of Irving
that if his speech is sometimes leaden, his silence is
always golden. It was silent effect that made his fortune
in ‘The Bells.’"
A correspondent swears to this t
A Wllcannia (N.S.W.) storekeeper, named John O’Oon-
nell, went to bed one night last week in apparently the
best of health, but woke before morning to find that he
had become totally blind. He is now under special treat-
ment In Adelaide.
“ Marie D.” : Have just broken off from
the jam-stirring business to send you the following
“ dainty bit ” : The lady next door stands waiting
at her gate for the kiddie who has gone up to the
butcher’s at the corner. lam startled at this on
the child’s return. “Oh, mother! he’s give me
such a nice bit of meat. It should ’er been six-
pence, but he’s let yer have it for thruppence on
account uv th’ maggits.”
j, B. Nicholson, the Sydney Waygood
elevator-man, has been round tl.e world, and
comes back full of concern for the divs. °f Sydney
Hydraulic Power Co- "The day of the high
pressure passenger elevator, as it M y EJ y
and Melbourne, has passed or is P ass ™ g ’ h
tricity's the thing !—2O to 50 P e [ nt .
Power supply co.’s in Australia charge trom
4s. 2d. per lOOOgals. up to Us. 3d. ! But you can
buy electricity in Sydney at a rate equivalent to
2s. per lOOOgals., and the machine which applies
the power is 50 percent, more economical. Sooner
SriSTMrJS CO.’, will hove to oon«ider » re ;
duction of the price of pressure water to is. per
lOOOgals.
“HP”' Be the Charlton (Vic.) farmers;
going to Zion City (B. 14/2/’03): I remember a
family leaving for Salt Lake City about 20 j ears-
ago. They were “converts” of a couple of
“missionaries” from Brigham Youngs domain,
who came to our township. The family worki g
people—saved and scraped for some yeara to pay
their passages. For a long time nothing was
heard of them. At length patheticstones reached
us of the sufferings and hardshipsendured, without
hope for the future. The existence was slavery,
body and soul. “ Would that we could get back
to Australia,” was the burden of our old neighbors
cry. The poor Charlton farmers will probably
feel the same way. Those distant hills are dread-
fully brown when you get there.


Do Wot Despair!
e
A
A
r‘;:
-
Z2=
■ i
M
m
.1
fn
--
m
V.
Sis-
. From the original illustrations of the Dr. Sanden’s Electric Belt Co., New York.
There are many thousands oe you in
Australia to-day, far from medical aid, who think
your case is hopeless and that the die is cast for
you to die early.
Don’t think anything: of the sort
Eor we can by our wonderful system of HOME
TREATMENT treat and cure you in your own homes.
WE MAY NEVE LI SEE YOU, but if you follow out
our instructions and adopt our system
We will soon make you well.
If your trouble is a serious BLOOD DISEASE, a
chronic NERVE AFFECTION,- PARALYSIS,
SCIATICA, LOSS OE VITAL POWER, WEAK-
NESS, INSOMNIA, INDIGESTION or DYSPEPSIA
We will Guarantee to Cure you
in a few short weeks. Remember; we stand behind A
GUARANTEE BOND OE £lOOO for the faithful per-
formance of all medical contracts undertaken. We
have, since we commenced practice a quarter of a
century ago,
Cured many Thousands of Men
who gladly have given us voluntary testimonies in
proof. WE CAN CURE YOU, SURELY, QUICKLY
AND PERMAN ENTLY. Write for special brochure
of testimonies from eminent patients mailed free.
These will convince you, and perhaps you may find A
SIMILAR CASE TO YOUR OWN.
OUR FEES are: ADVICE and MEDICINE. ONE POUND ONLY.
GUARANTEE
TO
CURE YOU
QUICKLY,
PERMANENTLY.
MEN ! You never know your fate. This is an old but true saying. While alive you want to
feel STRONG, VIGOROUS, FULL OF THE FIRE OF YOUTH, glad with the GLAD
HAPPINESS OF HEALTH AND POWER. We can make you such men. We can give you
a strength that your fellow-men will envy.
We offer you a Wonderful Treatment.
If you are WEAK IN YOUR VITAL NERVE CENTRES, run down, PALSIED when
you should be POWERFUL, you should wear our Electric “IN VIGORATOR ” for a few nights
only. Its remedial electric current will SATURATE YOUR VITAL CENTRES with a
soothing powerful current. YOU WILL AWAKE BRIGHT AND REFRESHED. You will
have NO MORE PAIN, no more WEAKNESS; you cannot be weak when you wear this
Electric Belt. It is guaranteed by two leading Sydney electricians. It is modelled after those
used by European scientists. It is "the finest cure for Weakness in Men or Women medical science
has ever discovered or can ever know.
OUR
GUARANTEE
TO CURE
IS A
£lOOO
BOND
&
OUR “ INVIGORATORS ” ARE SOLD THUS.
Solid Cold (2oz. 18ct. Cold), £lO ; Solid Silver, £3 ; Electro-Plate, £1 10s; Copper-Plate, £l.
We specially recommend our £1 Electric “BELT.” It is superior to any sold in Australia. It has true Vulcanite
Insulation without which no “Belt” can give a continuous current. '
ANY BELT WITHOUT THIS PROCESS IS USELESS IN MEDICAL PRACTICE. ,
OUR MEDICAL
INSTITUTE.
Here is a photo, of our Insti-
tute, where we have practised
for a quarter-of-a-century, and
where we hold the largest
medical practice in Australia.
Over £lOO,OOO has been spent in making it the most Scientific Institution in
the Southern Medical World. It is presided over by a staff of SPECIAL-
ISTS in BLOOD AND NERVE DISEASES whose skill is unquestionable.
There is no known disease which they have not exhaustively studied. They
all have graduated from reputable colleges in England and America ; and its
Physician-in-Chief is the only registered practitioner advertising Electric
Belts in Australia, and who is skilled in the treatment of disease by the com-
bined action of Electricity and Medicine.
Registration of the Chief of the Medical Staff*
The Physician-in-Chief of the Medical
RICHARD WALLACE, is registered b y Je MED:ICAL BOARDS
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, ENG
LAND and AMBRICA. He is a Specialist of unquestionable ability.
SIR DOMINIC CORRIGAN, BART, Physician to the Queen, says of
him “ I entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his pro es-
sional qualifications.”
NOTE When DUfChasing an Electric “Bolt" see that your PHYSICIAN is
, enteredby«.trJlan and In.li.h Medical Boards Vou can e.e.ly
do this by referring to the N S W. list of Medical Practitioners
YOU SHOULD READ THIS HANDSOME BOOK.
■jl/TOST USEFUL WORKS ARE OUR MEDICAL VOLUMES. THEY ARE
LYL HIGHLY USEFUL to all people resident in the outlying portions of Aus-
tralia. “ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES ” contains 500 pages of medical literature,
150 full-page medical plates and anatomical views.
THERE 13 NO FURTHER CHARGE THAN ONE SHILLING,
in stamps, post free. It is a literary souvenir from the INSTITUTE and its
SPECIALISTS. No Home Library is complete without it. These books are not
mere pamphlets given away for advertising purposes, but fine, useful volumes ;
genuine medical advisers.
All lovers of first-class literature desire nothing better than to possess a handsome,
instructive book.
“CLINICAL EX-
PERIENCES” con-
tains 30 CHAPTERS
ON DISEASES,
BURNS, SCALDS,
FEVERS, ABSCESS,
SUNSTROKE,
PLAGUE, APO-
PLEXY, SNAKE-
BITE, WOUNDS,
FRACTURES,
LOVE AND MAR-
RIAGE, FEVERS,
etc. It also contains
a vocabulary of 1000
Medical Terms, and a
list of 50 valuable pres-
criptions for household
use. It makes a
splendid presentation
volume for the New
Year. It is the sick
man or woman’s Be3t
Friend.
**» VI
J’tOV^AMABHIaJI
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-IVIED I CAL
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D , L.R.C.P , E., L.F.P.B ,
L.M , Physician-in-Chief.
FrM from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly attended to.


Melb. lady recently solemnly stated she'd
found a human finger in a tin of factory jam. As
fruit has to be cut up and peeled in a hurry for
cheap jam, there are some possibilities in “four-
pence a tin.”
A practical people, the Italians. A rich
American has just bought a Botticelli for £14,000
from a hard-up prince, and the picture was
smuggled away in defiance of the law, which
forbids the sending of any ancient works of
art out of the country. But the curious fact of an
Italian prince having any money could not be
concealed, and an unsympathetic court promptly
fined him—just -£14,000 !
To ensure greater correctness in ascertain-
ing a ship’s longitude at sea than is obtainable by
either log or chronometer, it has been proposed
that the chief maritime nations should take con-
certed action to have noon and midnight signals,
Greenwich time, flashed across the oceans from all
Marconi stations. »• *
Adelaide Boys’ Institute has invented a
new kind of Sunday evening service for children.
It is held on the Institute lawn, in a crowded
part of the city, and contains more dumb : beli
selections than addresses or texts. On specially
hot nights it finishes with a free half-hour for the
boys in a swimming-bath.
I SMdd aaiNlOd-UVinOWD
l<wi> s/oo 19 HinvoNvaa 0
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
bein" rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OP
PENS.”
Each pattern beirv, made i.. degrees JtewWity WoriwTBiRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series. v» 1 ■ ™
Hearne
Cure
FOR
COUGHS, BKO N SSm|:^THM^|S-CO ? SUM™,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEOlbiiN-U iin
Sufferers from of Bronchm, Coogh
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence.
Coughs ” have been properly
end a Complete Cure is certain. raUSWAIR-E OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY ITS COMMENCEMENT. AND CONSUMPTIONS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED,
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
mv case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months 014.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
email bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cin for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mre. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
" Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
M 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
••Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
•• Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months —always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than f have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
•* Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows “As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. 1
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ i must ask you to send me six bottles more of tne
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. _ I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-hottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did net require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
-be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case,
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
« Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during whieh period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Svdney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :— “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883 — 15 years ago I have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine qui
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:— 1 I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
eturn of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot Qffi ce . u o> 5 First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE
SMELTING a REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
For all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
s ‘ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Bengep*s Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record,
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious. Nutritive, and Digestible.
Bengerls Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
tn find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘Benger’s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


No. F5419—18c.
Gold Diamond and
Bapphire Ring, £2.
Ho. Gl39s.—Solid Silver Serviette
Ring, 48 6d.
No. F2B76.—Pretty Glass-lined Shell
Butter Dish, with Knife, 13s fid.
15c. Gold and Fine
Pearl Star Pendant,
10s; others up to £lO
No. SOl —16 c. Gold and Fine Opal and Pearl Bee
Brooch, £2 10s.
T.
No. F&o3l.— Exquisite Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £l3 10s.
No. F', 419.—Novel
Charm, 9ct. Gold,
Mouse ina Hat, 8s 6d
No. F7393.—15c. Gold
Rope and Anchor
Charm, 8s 6d.
No. F5328.—18c. Gold
Diamond & Sapphire
King, £b 10s.
9ct. Gold Fashionable
Photo. Pendant, 7s 6d ;
larger, 8s Od, 11s 6d.
With Pearls, 27s 6d.
'CUVS&Id
" i> ETTE R QUALITY FOR LESS MONEY.” That Is the Stewart Dawson Idea of
D carrying' on a business. It’s our way of winning and keeping your custom.
We admit we are in a better position to buy at the right prices than any
other firm in Australasia, but remember that it was through following the policy
mentioned above that we have grown from one Store to Eight. There is a reason at
the back of everything, and BETTER QUALITY FOR LESS MONEY Is the reason for
our growth and popularity. Orders fcy post have careful attention, and catalogues
and information are gladly sent to enquirers.
No. E 7302. —Pearl,
Turquoise and 9c.
Gold Heart Pen-
dant, 17s 6d.
No. 215. —Fine
Pearl and Sapphire
Heart, 9c. Gold,
16s 6d.
No. F7392.—15c
Gold Filigree
Ornamented
Bean Charm,
10s Od.
No. F 7420— Soli 1
Gold Perfect
Model Pipe
Charm,
8s (id.
A 5
No. F3l9B.—Neat, Plain Onyx and
Gold Mourning Brooch, 13s 6d.
jgff&giSMS'
T'
HUE Cmotas
S.W
iagg&a^«««*Aa3tK
No. Fs9os.—Gentleman’s Embossed Solid Silver Visiting
Card Case, 16s 6d.
No. F44s'.—Fine
Quality Silver-plated
Centrepiece, 20in.
high, with Stag Or-
naments and
Engraved Glass Dish
and Vase, £3 15s.
No. Gl399.—Solid Silver Queen Anne Salt Cellars and
Spoons, in Morocco Case, 52s 6d.
.STEWART. DAWSON & C.
ST.
This shows the new Pearl Necklet made from real solid Mother of
Pearl and coated by a secret process to imitate the real
pearls. The imitation is practically perfect, and only an expert
can tell the difference. Prices, £4, £4 10s, £4 iss, £5.
>7'
No. F 3738. —Neat Leather Purse, with Handsome
Silver Mounts and Lock, 13s 6d.
No. Gl396. —Gadroon Edge Solid Silvwr
Serviette Bing, lie Sd.
rf&i'
m
s
i*
wis&iii*;
v f >s
-e.-c
jHTfc)
pp^sf
r 0
:eo©
No. F976.—Fine Pearl Set, 15c. Gold 2 Bar
Brooch, 37s 6d.
No. F9933.—Child’s Cup,
Silver Plated and En-
graved in case, 14s 6d.
Illustrated Catalogue
POST FREE,
No. 163.—18 c. Gold
Diamond and Ruby
Ring, £3 los; larger
£5 10s.
No. 386. —Mother of Pearl Silver Plated and Engraved Butter Knife, 3s 6d.
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL ....
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone $ TyP^ riler C<d-
This is a “JUNIOR ITONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
well to remember this when discussing the artistic merit of sound reproducing contrivances. There is little
difficulty in reproducing a sound. There is, however, a gigantic difficulty in reproducing good music, and the actual
voices of famous singers. We would ask you to remember that THE GRAMOPHONE made by The Gramophone
and Typewriter Ltd. does this. How do we do it? Why, because we have unlimited capital at our back, and because
we do not hesitate to obtain the services of the finest and most celebrated artistes of the day to sing for us. The better the
artiste the better the song. The public are the best judges in the world of tne intrinsic value of an article. We are selling
FIVE MILLION RECORDS
„ pr annlim _ an d whv !> Because our records are real reproductions of these singers. Our catalogue includes records made
per annum V, . t, id B isnhani, Ben Davies, Andrew Black, Richard Green, Joseph O’Mara, Mesdames Calve,
Mta r™lvJ Allen. Connie Ml„, ..<1 M„i. Tern,-. Al«o M Leno. G.ong,
Robey, Louis Bradfield, and Maurice Parkoa, besides hundreds of others.
Australian Agencies
—VICTORIA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA- AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The Cramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, W.S.W.
Represented all over
World.


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
onlv Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
THE PIANOLA
ey mm.
V
r=D
p %
j
What
It
I
Means
To
You.
If you are the owner of a piano which ia seldom or never used, little
benefit is derived from it by either you or your family. By the purchase
of a Pianola every member of your family can play the piano, although he
or she may never have played one note in their life.
The striking of the notes of the selection, in proper time and place, is
no concern of the player. This is correctly done by the Pianola.
The player’s only task is to decide how slow or how fast the notes shall
be played, or how loud or soft he wants them to sound.
Three little levers serve to impart the player’s wishes to the piano.
Should the selection not be familiar, a very simple set of markings is given
on the music-roll which unwinds in front of the player, directing the proper
movement of the levers.
If you will write us, asking for Catalogue B, we will mail you one
free, explaining more fully the Pianola.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt cash, or £65 on moderate
monthly payments.^
HENRY M. BIRCE & CO.
SOLE ACENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SYDNEY : 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
CONSTIPATION ERADICATED BY
KUTNOW’S POWDER.
Sufferers from
Violent Headaches
Value
Kutnow’s Powder.
Kutnow’s Powder dissolves and thoroughly
eliminates the poisonous substances
which accumulate in the stomach
and bowels without weakening any
of the organs on which it acts.
The use of Kutnow’s Powder painlessly
and permanently banishes Consti-
pation, and by inducing the flow of
the gastric juice the terrors of Indi-
gestion are removed.
After a course of Kutnow’s Powder,
paleness, irritability and languor
disappear, lost appetite is restored,
refreshing sleep returns, despondency
and headache vanish, the nerves are
strengthened, the brain is quickened,
and the entire body regains its pris-
tine vigor.
The Advice of Two Doctors.
“44, Garden Reach, Calcutta, India,
“ May 22nd, 1902.
“Dear Sirs,—Last year I was advised by two
Doctors to take Kutnow’s Powder, and for the
last twelve months I have taken a dose every
morning with very few exceptions. I must say
that I am quite a different man since I have been
taking it; in fact, better in every way.—Yours
very sincerely, .
3 “JOHN G. COXON.”
“THE MEDICAL JOURNAL,”
November, 1902, says :
“Disorders of the liver—whether arising from excessive or deficient
secretion of bile, with such well-known characteristic symptoms as headache,
nausea, pain in the abdomen, diarrhcea, and low spirits; or with the
important symptoms of dyspepsia, such as constipation, a feeling of
abnormal fullness or emptiness, heart-burn, an offensive taste, foul
breath, a furred tongue, flatulence, irregular heart action, an emaciated
countenance, drowsiness, and languor—these are now most successfully
treated by Kutnow’s Powder.
“This preparation is composed of the active principles of the most
famous European mineral spring waters, and as such forms a natural
antiseptic aperient, relieving at once any congestion of the hepatic portal
system. It acts as a solvent, loosening all hard faecal matter which may
have accumulated, and eliminating the same without any suggestion of
griping or pain.
“ Amongst the many eminent specialists who have commended Kutnow’s
Powder in the highest terms, we note the names of Sir Andrew Clark, M.D.,
Sir Morell Mackenzie, M,D,, and Professor Lawson Tait, M.D.
“We may add that Kutnow’s Powder, although containing no sugar,
is pleasant to the taste, decidedly refreshing, and is well sustained by
the most delicate stomach. It produces an immediate sense of relief, or,
to put it in the words of a patient, ‘lt seems to at once take away a load
of trouble.’ ”
«
Kutnow’s Powder can be obtained from all
Chemists and Stores throughout the
World. .
CXACT.SIZE
OFJHE.BO.mI
ti
*—*
i KUT NOW’S
improved Effervescent Carlse
POWDER.
>VM
m
V'
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap}
A&/
' ■
ID
7/A
«c - ■ London: 1
41. FARRINGDON ROAD, E.C.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK. .
EXACT SIZE
OFTHE BOTTLE
All who work with
the Brain understand
the Value of Health.
KUTNOW’S POWDER
EXPELS IMPURITIES.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO.. Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A. ; KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
Jersey’s Yarn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Being the sort of lie which is superseding the crude
snake-yam in the Australian bush.)
It was a lonely house in a lonely part.
“Yes,” said the woman who came to the door,
“I can give you something to eat. I’m glad you
called. I’ve got my husband here very ill; he
might not last the night. I don’t like the look of
him, and there’s no one but me in the house.”
In the kitchen she produced some victuals and
made tea. While I was eating she talked a bit
about her husband.
“ He's pretty low ” —jerking her thumb towards
another room—“he can’t leave his bed, and he
doesn’t seem all right in his head.”
Later on—“I think while you’re here I’ll saddle
the horse and go for the doctor. He is about four
miles off.”
I offered to go, but she assured me I’d never
find the place in the dark; she knew the way
and would be there and back in no time.
“I don’t think he’ll want anything,” she said,
“he calls sometimes, and when I go in he has
dozed off again. If he asks for a drink you can
give it to him ; it will be all right.”
She got a hat and jacket. I put the saddle on
for her and when she had gone off in the starlight
I went into the house again. Dog-tired and worn
out with a long day’s tramp, I mechanically turned
down the lamp that was on the table and rolled
on to a sofa in the corner. I did think of peeping
in to see what the patient was like first, but then
it might disturb him. So inside of two minutes I
was almost asleep when, creak, went the passage
door and the sick man came into the room in
his nightshirt—the man who couldn’t leave his
bed.
By the time he’d got to the middle of the room
I had jerked myself to a sitting-up posture facing
him. My idea was that delirium had given him
a burst of unnatural strength enabling him to get
up and that I would have to see about putting him
back again.
He looked a bit haggard, but beyond that there
was nothing.out of the way about his appearance.
He stopped the other side of the table.
“ It’s all right,” he said. “ I came out for some
water ” —he had a cup in his hand. “ Where’s the
missus?”
“Gone for the doctor.”
“ Did she say how long she’d be ? ”
All the while he eyed me so closely, as if taking
my measure, that I concluded he was simply curious
just to have a look at me. He’d heard us talking
together, and she, thinking he was asleep, had
not bothered to tell him anything about me. But
he eeriainly did not seem so ill as she had made
out; He got water out of a dipper on the table,
and after another hard look my way, said “ Good-
night,” and went back to his room again.
I had walked 30 miles that day, and soon
ceasing to think any mote about him, went
soundly off to sleep. I don’t know how long I’d
been asleep, but my next disturbance was the
noise of revolver-shots in the house.
“Hullo!” thought I, “he’s shot himself!”
and jumped up and made for the passage.
Couldn’t see anything, but somebody called out:
“ Back veu go, or I’ll shoot! ” I could do nothing,
so I backed, and the man—the invalid man with
the haggard face—came stamping down the
passage into the kitchen after me. . ,
He was fully dressed this time, and armed with
a revolver. There was not much of the invalid
about him, however mad he might be.
“Now, young feller’’—pulling his pistol up—
“you just sit down there and listen to me. * ou
think there’s been a murder done here, perhaps.
Perhaps there has, perhaps not, perhaps two ot
’em, but whether there has or no you don t know
anything about it. I wasn’t ill at all only
shamming. My wife told you she was going for
the doctor, but I know who she was going for very
well I’ve been on his track along time and just
set this to catch ’em, and to-night, while you were
asleep, I dressed and waited up for em. JNow,
what you’re going to do is to take your solemn
oath not to breathe a word to any living soul of
what you’ve heard to-night, or else 111 blow your
brains out. Go in that room there, and you 11 see
a Bible ; fetch it out and swear on it.
All this he said with his revolver up. I got the
book, and we had a formal swearing.
“ Now I’ve got your oath I’ll trust it, he said.
“Do you want to stop on here till the morning .
Or mebbe you’d rather get out of the place. You
can take some tea and some bread with you—the
track on the right goes straight to Longford. _
I took this hint, and, thanking him, told him 1
didn’t care to stop around there any longer, and
humped my traps to go along the track to the
r to doubt he’d shot both the man and the
woman; but I couldn’t help that now my own
miserable skin was safe for the present, anyhow,
and I couldn’t do any good stopping there longer.
Next morning I was sitting on the bank ot a
creek not a great distance off. The sun was up
and warm ; the grass thick and /velvety ; the
water deliciously cool, and in the air the s/ingmg
of locusts, and the distant sound of splitters at
work somewhere. ,
I was just sitting thinking about things—about
the murder and that, and wondering if it were
possible that it was mainly a lunatic s tale, after
all, when up rode a mounted trooper behind me,
and, without getting off his horse, asked where 1
had camped the night before. .
I pointed in the direction of the house, and said
“ Over there.”
“ At the house ? "
I nodded. .
“Did you hear any shooting while you were
there?”
“No.”
“You’re sure?”
“ Yes,” said I, lopking at him steadily; there
was no shooting while I was there.”
“ Jolly good job you said so, young feller. I d
have blown your brains out if you hadn’t.” _
It was the man of the house again—disguised
a fact I’d found out for myself just in time.
• • • *
Jersey was silent, scraping his pipe out.
“Well, what came after that?” asked Long
Bill and Anderson together.
“ That’s all I know,” said Jersey, mournfully.
SMILAX.


Wi'*'
oh;
...
<j: v,
m.
fcie£2S
S^l
The
COP
a..
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
JjAVELOCK
THE HICHESTQUAUTY
TOBACCO
DARK**LIGHT PLUG
ALSO
&ii
£ '
S&.’
h9S^W4
assppe
My Lover.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Thou awful and mysterious sojourner
Upon an earth of shadows and unrest,
Wakening in me a strange disquietude,—
What and whence art thou ?
In the obscure past,
Upon an earth, weird, and to us unknown,
That spirit lived and moved, gyved in a form
That no conjecture can discover; mine
Too lived and moved. We have inherited
That which our ancient fathers had from eld !
Whence is the fabric that composes “thee”?
So like this “ me,” and yet so different!
How have thy bodily elements been knit
And folded round the spirit thou dost bear ?
Our elements may be co-mingled now ;
Yet our attraction has repulsion too,
And between these we pause and hesitate.
Lives there a mood, swift and imperious,
Of some old lover in thee, one that swayed
A world of men and women and then died ?
With such an influence thou comest to me !
Dwells there within thee but a smallest part
Of one that warred with part of that in me
And slew, or else was slain ?—for times there be
When love is veiled with a most ominous mood.
A glimpse of terror from thy presence breaks;
What creature’s dust may in thy cheek repose,
Or monstrous shape fashion a part of thee ?
Some brute that trampling crushed the tender
herb,
Some lurid rock that earth smokingly hurled,
And ages ground to dust, absorbed in thee ?
That passes, ghost-like ; and a sweeter mood
Speaks of the resurrection of fair things
That live in thee as mortals live in joy.
The scattered dust of Queens may lodge in thee ;
The dust of creatures lowly, blind and frail;
The vapors that have dyed the violet,
Or that in evening calm the sun has dyed.
Thou hast the allurement of the luminous sea,
Moon-gladdened, infinite ; the exquisite
And musical tenderness of airs
Trembling with bird-song and the murmuring bee ;
The persuasiveness of love-compelling flowers :
Thy life that was lingers about thee still !
The breath thou breathest may have touched the
lips
Of our first parents, whatever shape they bore !
Thou art no new thing ; only a new form
Of ancient and most venerable parts
Reknit in living substance. Therefore, I,
Feeling myself kin in antiquity,
Look curiously on thee if I may trace
The immemorial parts of ages flown,
Mysterious, awful, whirled like sands and rain
Limitless ages between earth and sky,
Dispersed, and all these variable parts
Reanimate. Another heir of Time
Stands before thee, and gazing through those
eyes
That beam as windows in the shrouding mists
Of past and future, speculates with awe
What once thou wast who now art what thou
art!
M.L.
AJAU.
Our New Selection.
A FAMOUS EXPLORER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Located near the range, with its peaks and
precipices, its scrub, hanging rock and head
waters, Ruddville became known to all sorts of
people. City folk, tourists, happened along at
holiday-time and caused a stir. Often, when the
one at the township was in use, they hired our
buggy. Often they didn’t—it all depended how
Dad regarded them.
* • • •
It was the day remembered by everyone—the
day the O’Briens and the Bradys fell out and
fought in the lane and Mrs. O’Brien bit off
Brady’s finger—tfie day Mrs. Mathers and Mrs
Andy Mullens left for Brisbane to see the ex-
hibition and took their luggage in a cradle and
two tea-tins.
Distinguished visitors —a Minister of the Crown
and several M’s. P.—- were coming to Ruddville.
“ Dinny ” Donoghue, our reputed useless
member was the cause of it. He arranged with
Dad to meet the party, supply saddle-horses, and
escort it to the Falls and Parker’s Point, twelve
miles along the range. Attractive scenery
abounded at those places, and the party was to
spend a day or so viewing it. Nothing could have
pleased Dad more. He was in his element. He
would have found horses fora hundred had it been
necessary.
The party arrived. No band—no address —no
presentation—no distinguished gathering, except
the Regans and Kelly and Thompson’s men lean-
ing over the fence.
The dogs barked a welcome, and Dad intro-
duced the visitors to Mother and Sarah, who tried
desperately to appear composed. Then he treated
them to refreshments. Lots of people round our
way reckoned a Minister wouldn’t touch spirits.
But they couldn’t have entertained any at their
places. This one touched it—the whole party
did except Mr. De Hartigan. But he wasn t a
member of Parliament; he was only with the
party.
“No, no,” De Hartigan said, stalking about
the room composedly inspecting the enlarged
portraits hanging on the wall —“never touch it
when I’m in the bush.” , ,
Dad looked round at him and stared. Dad had
never known anyone to refuse before.
Some of the visitors smiled. Ihe Minister,
mother thought, frowned. We heard, afterwards,
that he didn’t approve of De Hartigan s presence.
De Hartigan was an heroic person. A man o
about fifty, and five-feet-ten ; a lofty forehead,
discontented-looking features, and wore , the
appearance of a man waiting at the butchers on
a very hot day to be served with meat. A per-
son, too, full of assurance, with an overweening
predilection for heavv words, and afflicted with a
delusion that his frame and constitution were ot
cast iron ; the latter he impressed on people oy
trving to break their hands instead of shaking.
Worst of all, he insisted being regarded as an
Before starting to the Range, Dad invited the
party to “ have a look round.”
They inspected the machinery, the dairy, and
the cows. The Minister was delighted. The
nngs he saw seemed to make him regret his own
uinble avocation. He said he envied Dad, and
spoke s of the freedom and independence of a
aimers life, and loudly repined because there
weren t millions of men with Dad’s industry and
lnte .i e ? ce on ie l anc k (He said the same of
'"ring of settlers at Black Duck three days
later.) J
- .i De Hartigan was not so impressed by the
surroundings. Queensland dairymen, he reckoned,
began at the wrong end. Hartigan was a plain-
spoken man. He said it would pay most of them,
before commencing operations, to sit down and
find out how much they knew about a cow.
Look at that waster of a heifer, there,” he
remarked, pointing, by way of illustration, to
oiiky, a nine-year-old cow; ‘‘ a Hereford, right
enough ; but see the udder she has—all flesh. She
wouldn’t keep a cat in milk.”
Silky was the best milker we had ; a shorthorn
that Dad paid thirteen guineas for.
Dad tried to explain these things to De Harti-
gan, but the latter turned a torrent of rhetoric on
Dad and confused him.
“Well, she was sold as a shorthorn to me,”
Dad mumbled in conclusion.
“ Just as I say,” De Hartigan retorted; “and,
a fortiori, you were sold.”
The Minister showed displeasure. He scowled,
and Joe overheard him say things about De
Hartigan to Mr. Fitzgerald, member for Up-
North.
“Bloodwood,” De Hartigan observed, placing
both hands on a yard railing as though he would
pull it down.
“ Ironbark,” Dad said, correcting him. “ Split
on the ridge there,” pointing with his finger.
De Hartigan made grimaces.
“ Tut, man,” he said, eyeing the timber closely,
“ not a rail of it. Eucalyptus corymbosa.”
Dad was knocked out.
* * • *
Ready to start. Joe, who with Dad was to
accompany the expedition, led out the horses and
was allotting each his mount.
De Hartigan waved him off.
“ Oh, dear, no ! ” he said, “ / require no horse.”
“ It’s fifteen mile,” Dad put in, staring at him.
“ Make no difference if it were thirty, ” Hartigan
answered, buttoning his coat up, “ only exercise
to a man when he’s done his sixty and seventy in
a day, carrying a rifle and tomahawk, exploring
in the interior.”
Several of his friends tried to persuade him to
change his mind, but in vain.
The explorer expanded his chest.
“ You’ll have to stir your mokes up,” he said,
“to keep me in sight.” Then, taking a piece of
bramble in his hand for a walking-stick, he started
off through the paddocks, making strides that
provoked Dave and Sarah to merriment and the
Minister to expressions of resentment.
The mounted division followed.
It was a brilliant day, all sunlight and bright-
ness.
The two-mile hut was passed, Hartigan still
swinging along, well in the lead.
Dad reckoned he was an extraordinary man.
Joe, with finger and mouth, whistled like a
locomotive. De Hartigan glanced back over his
shoulder. Joe waved his hand to indicate
a change of course. Hartigan swung into line
without shortening his stride.
The party laughed—all except the Minister.
He was a man without freedom or gaiety.
Five miles were covered.
Hartigan’s action became erratic. He puffed,
sweated. Gradually he “cune back” to the
horses. Burr and grass-seed clung to his clothes.
Gullies, undergrowth and patches of blady growth
impeded his path, broke his pace. The smallest
stone, a stick, the slightest unevenness in the
earth caused him to trip.
Six miles.
Hartigan fell in the rear ; removed his coat and
carried it on his shoulder.
'Dad became concerned. He dropped back and
invited the explorer to hang on to the stirrup.
De Hartigan wouldn’t. He declined with a
shake of the head. He didn’t speak; he couldn’t.
Dad rode along beside his guest in silence.
Hartigan removed his collar and hat, and
carried them in his hand.
Five miles more to tramp. The horsemen were
out of sight.
Dad became agitated.
“Look here,” he said, coming to a standstill
and sliding off his mare ; “ you get up— Fll walk
the rest.”
Hartigan sank in the grass.
“It’s the first time” he gasped, when he re-
covered sufficient breath, “that I’ve done any
walking in this sort of country.” Then he
mounted the mare and encouraged Dad, who
blundered feebly along, with cheerful chunks of
information about the fauna and flora of the Gulf
country. .
The mounted division had arrived at the I alls,
and dismounted at an old hut there.
“Confounded shame !” said the Minister when
De Hartigan hove in sight, perched on Dad’s
mare, while Dad himself staggered along on foot.
None of the others spoke. They stared. A sort
of depression was over them.
“ By Jove ! ” De Hartigan called ou t as he came
U p_“only my friend here would insist upon
getting down to stretch his limbs I wouldn’t have
been far behind you.” „
Dad was too exhausted to say anything. He
drank a lot of water, then sat and wiped the
perspiration from his face. .
After resting, the party put in a tew hours
sight-seeing and shooting. Then they returned to
the hut, had tea, and smoked. .
When the moon rose they went off again and
mooched round for wallabies.
De Hartigan wouldn’t carry a gun. Said tie
didn’t want any. He walked beside Dad all the
time, watching for game for him. His eyes were
better than Dad’s, and he saw the things first.
“Steady! steady!” he would whisper when
anything presented itself, and Dad would stand
still and peer excitedly all round the compass.
Then De Hartigan, without rmpving his eyes from
the object, would reach out his hand and noise-
lessly take the gun from Dad and fire it off. He
would always hand it back again, though, and
wait till Dad rammed another charge into her.
Dad didn’t remonstrate, but was struck with a
brilliant idea. He stuffed a heavy double (marge
into the old gun, and prowled along beside his
exuberant guest witli a wicked grin on his face.
“There! there!” De Hartigan whispered
hoarsely, as the white front of a wallaby showed
itself right under their noses.
Dad held out the gun to him.
“ No, no, no,” Hartigan said, you haven t had
a 'T\nli <! adjimed qU Dad tremblingly raised the
weapon, fired, and fell flat on his back.
All were preparing to turn-in, making their
beds on the floor of the hut. , , c tx
“Haven’t you a rug, sir? Dad asked of De
Hartigan, much concerned.
Hartigan hadn’t. Nevei carried one in his life.
*Twas always his practice, he said, to sleep with-
out covering of any kind : same with all explorers.
All he required was something level to lie on—the
harder it was the sounder he could sleep.
A slab table stood in the centre of the hut, its
legs fixed in the earth. With calm indifference,
De Hartigan mounted that table, stretched him-
self full length upon it, folded his arms across his
chest, closed his eyes—and was asleep.
Those on the floor grinned and compared him
to Gladstone. But the Minister shook liis head
sceptically and tucked his rug about himself.
Half-an-hour and all were snoring—all but Joe.
He was interested in the explorer, and lay with
an eye on the table.
Hartigan didn’t sleep very long. He raised
himself cautiously, and by the light of the
moon and the flickering fire stared at the slumber-
ing forms beneath. Then he slipped quietly from
the table and crawled under Dad’s rug.
Dad must have thought it was mother; he put
his arms round De Hartigan and murmured
things about “calves” and “milk.”
At daybreak, Hartigan took to the table again,
and when the others opened their eyes he was sleep-
ing ...
t, , , . ,
Breakfast. Then some more sight-seeing and
shooting. _ _
After a light lunch, made off the remains of the
_ , i ’ t •
provender, they spoke of returning.
Joe packed-up and got the horses ready.
De Hartigan, his chest pushed out and head
tilted back, strode leisurely forward and mounted
Dad’s mare.
"Come along, M‘Master,” he said; “you and
I’ll be going on.”
They rode off.
Seeing Dad on foot, the Minister hesitated, and
stared about. He saw De Hartigan in advance,
waving his hand in debate with M'Master, and
grasped the position.
“It’s too d d bad ! ” he exclaimed, angrily,
“ too bad, indeed ! ”
He dismounted at once and resigned his horse
to Dad. But the member for Up-North and
Dinny Donoghue, who misrepresented our dis-
trict, wouldn’t hear of such a sacrifice. They
alighted also, both vigorously claiming the right
to “pad the hoof.” Finally, they agreed to tramp
and ride alternately, and Dad and the Minister
rode.
“Curse him!” Donoghue would hiss, staring
after the form of De Hartigan, every time his
turn came to walk. “May th’ horse break his
thick neck!”
Nearing the end of the journey, and about one
mile from Ruddville, De Hartigan happened, in-
cidentally, to look back. Perceiving Donoghue
laboring laggardly along on foot, he stopped.
“ Bless my soul,” he said when Donoghue came
up ; “why didn’t you sHout, man, for the horse?
Well, well, well, you’re a nice fellow ! Here, man.”
And he jumped down and hoisted the tired poli-
tician into the saddle before he could protest.
The explorer then extended himself and left the
party behind.
Approaching the house he saw mother, Sarah
and others watching from the verandah and felt
they were admiring his performance. He de-
termined to finish strong. The garden fence was
before him. Exulting in the consciousness of his
own agility, he took'off his hat, bounded lightly
in the air, ran at the palings, jumped, and fell
heavily on the geraniums.
* • • «
There’s another Ministerial party coming to
Ruddville soon, and Dad is wondering if that
fellow De Hartigan will be in it.
Q.
STEELE RUDD.
The pony of a Berwick (Vic.) undertaker
was recently found dead hanging from the fork of
a tree. Local verdict was that the pony had sui-
cided owing to slackness of trade.
N.S.W. Methodist president, Wools-Rut-
ledge, quotes with approval a conclusion which
is more religious than dogmatic, by “ lan
Maclaren”: —
The dying man is much less concerned than his father
would have been about his soul and what is going to
happen to him after death. He is more anxious about
what is going to happen to his wife and children.
A change for the better.
Stipendiary Donaldson, of Sydney, in-
veighed bitterly the other day against persons
who give offenders into custody and then fail to
turn up and testify at the trial. The practice is
certainly wrong, but it springs from more causes
than the indignant stipendiary seems aware of.
Often the prisoner instructs his friends to dis-
gorge the goods, when stolen goods are in
question ; but much more often the prisoner’s
friends, whatever the question is, simply terrify
the prosecutor, and he stays away for the good
of his health. It is the best thing he
can do in a city where one policeman has often
20 miles of streets and lanes to look after, and
where the push can often maul a victim for about
90 minutes before constabulary aid arrives—also
in a city where, even if the push is caught after
nearly butchering a peaceful citizen, a dull
stipendiary only fines it 40s. Also, prosecutors
often stay away because of the. objectionable and
violent manners of the police-court lawyer, and
the gorgon-like manner in which the average
stipendiary sits on the bench and allows that red-
nosed outcast to misbehave himself at his own
sweet will.


THE MEDICAL PROFESSION
RECOMMEND
BILE BE \NS are now so widely recognised as an effective remedy for all
liver and digestive disorders, that many eminent medical men prescribe them
for use amongst their patients. Below are found certificates of three well-
known practitioners, which will show conclusively that Bile Beans have earned
for themselves golden opinions from men admirably qualified to judge the
value of medicines :
9 Guilford -street, Russell Square, London,
BILE BEANS.
I certify that a numberof «m.plec bare been exantined by
and teeted very b devoiS of any
barmf ut me excellent result,. I behe.e them to be
a most useful and satisfactory famdy medunne
65 Regent-street,
London, W-
To the Bile Bean Co.
Having examined samples of Bile Beans,
I hereby certify that they are composed of
selected high-class preparations, and are
free from any undesirable ingredients.
I have formed a very favorable opinion
of their curative properties for the treat-
ment of bilious ailments, and all disorders
of the digestive system. . ,
Bile Beans are a safe, effective, and ideal
remedy, suitable alike for young and old.
(Signed) J. H. HART,
L.R.C.P., L.R.O.S
12 Knowle-road,
Brixton, London.
BILE BEANS.
I hereby certify that I have examined
samples of Bile Beans, and, from the
analytical and experimental results ob-
tained, I have formed a very favorable
opinion as to their merits for Biliousness
and kindred complaints. As they are free
from all undesirable constituents, Bile
Beans are a safe, reliable and effective
remedy.
(Signed) A. B. GRIFFITHS,
Ph.D., F.R.S.E.
BILK BEANS have been proved to be
an undoubted specific for BILIOUS-
NESS, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPA-
TION, PILES, BAD BLOOD, PIMPLES,
AND ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS, BAD
BREATII, WEAKNESS, FULLNESS
AFTER EATING, NERVOUSNESS,
DYSPEPSIA, SICK and NERVOUS
HEADACHES, DIZZINESS, LOSS OF
APPETITE, INSOMNIA, AN/EMIA,
SUMMER FAG, &c. From all Medi-
cine Vendors, Is. ljd., or 2s, 9d.
large box.
n
m
m
y-A
i.
i
■ ■¥
y <m.
■■ ■
m.
■A
i
i
i
1
8
■ m
m
»s
■ !i .
Disillusion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For some forty years, and over,
Poets had with me their way ;
And they made me think the Lover
Owned the Night and owned the Day;
And the Corpse beneath the Clover
Had a hopeful word to say.
And they made me think that Sorrow
Was a Shadow in the Sun ;
And they made me think To-Morrow
Was a gift to everyone :
And the days I used to borrow,
Till my credit now is done.
And they told me softly, sweetly,
That, when Life had lost its glee,
I could be consoled completely
By the Forest or the Sea;
And they wrote their rhymes so neatly
That they quite deluded me.
But when Sorrow is at sorest,
And the heart weeps silently,
Is there healing in the Forest ?
Is there solace in the Sea ?
And the God whom thou adorest
Has He any help for thee ?
Does it soothe the spent man dying
That the stars are shining bright
O’er the field where he is lying ?
And the moon, with all her light,
Does she help his bare soul flying
Through the vast and lonely Night ?
Give to me the grasp of true man,
Though his state be high or low,
Give to me the kiss of woman—
Let your Seas and Forests go :
There is nothing but the human
Touch can heal the human woe.
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
West Tasmania.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thebe is Tasmania and the Tasmanian West
Coast. The West Coast is a thing apart. To go
to the West Coast I was aroused by the too-early
porter, and after breakfast, by the light of acety-
lene, I let my toes freeze on the verandah till a
voice from under the hood of a cab called out,
“ All aboard ! ” My next impression is of sitting
in a dark, hard-seated compartment of a train,
with something else alive in the compartment
with me—man or woman, I couldn’t say. Then a
fellow came along with a lantern tucked under
his arm, examining all honest men’s tickets, after
which he left us in darkness again. Then we
started.
When we could see, I noticed that we were
locked and barred in, and I asked my companion
why the bars.
“ That’s to keep your brains in your head,” he
said, and forthwith explained that rock being ex-
pensive to cut, and the line being run by a private
co., they had just left room enough in the cuttings
for’ the train to get through, and the co. had
barred up the windows so as to safeguard the
brains of people with a too great enthusiasm for
scenery. We left a frost at Burnie, and it rained
higher up, and it snowed at the Junction, and it
rained all the rest of the way. But, in spite of all,
it was a splendid trip.
Two-thirds of the land of health and deep
slumber are rough mountainous expanses which
they have so far no use for. But the scenery of
those useless parts is magnificent, and it is on the
Emu Bay line you realise it more than elsewhere.
Maoriland scenery often awes you, but here every-
thing has a curvy, velvety softness most feminine
in grace. , .
The deep green of the myrtle is intermingled
with light-tinted sassafras, and silvery-sheened
wattle and graceful blackwood, and the bush is
sometimes sectioned by arabesques of button-grass
and back of it, distant hills, or black rock-topped
mountains meeting the grey sky. Sometimes you
look deep down to the iron-stained waters of a
creek, flowing at the foot of colonnades of moss-
covered tree butts, and dropping over fallen
saplings. The rocks are of wonderful tints. Some
are cream and some orange, and others rich red-
brown, and then the white quartz leaders run
through them. And the peculiarity is that the
scenery looks better under a grey sky and in the
falling rain. I saw it under a perfect sky and the
landscape was grey and dun; but when the
myrtle and sassafrass got their diamonds again it
seemed to laugh.
This is all because those trees have grown in the
land of everlasting rain. The rain-clouds all seem
to drift towards those mountains that Tasman
sighted and called after his ships. The sharp
peaks split the clouds and the rain falls. That is
why it rains more feet on the West coast than
inches in some parts of Australia. The average
is, I believe, about 168 inches per annum.
Zeehan is built on a bog, and gravel-paths lead
up to the doors. You must follow these paths
round to reach the person next door, and Queens-
town is much about the same. In Zeehan they
get silver and lead, and in Queenstown gold and
copper. Queenstown is the town of a blasted
valley. It is charred by fires, and is for ever
garbed in black and brown and dirty white ; that
is, when its sulphurous pall of pale fogs lift for it to
be seen. High-peaked, threatening mountains
hem and smother it in, each mountain covered
with black, charred stumps and brown peat; dirty
silica-like outcrops at their summits. Further
away skeleton trees hold up their gaunt, dead
arms, as if invoking a curse on the wombat-like
workers who tear out the sulphurous ore, which,
in smelting, killed them. Yes, and is killing the
workers too.
Nothing is too dreadful to happen in this home
of tragedy. In such a place Macbeth might have
met the witches, and those hags have boiled
their hell’s broth. Rain and fire and sulphur,
and sulphur and fire and rain never ending. You
taste and smell the sulphur always, and sometimes
it surrounds you in a mist. It settles on the rocks
and among tiie peat, and corrodes the iron roofs,
and it chokes up the human system. A nail left
in the water of the smelters a fortnight will be
coated with pure sulphur, and plumbers replacing
rain-pipes will find only the paint left. One day
when it leaves off raining the sulphur begins to
burn and the flame leaps along the peat and
travels across the bare rock, and then homes are
consumed, and for a time there is a little Day of
Judgment. This is an annual occurrence.
You realise when visiting such places how dearly
men earn wages. A doctor gives the smelter two
years to stand it. Fancy two years, at seven
shillings a day, for a lifetime of broken health and
a certain death of torture ! And what work do
they do? They look like demons as they feed
the furnaces, or tap the ore or the slag, or
run the slag-pots. But look in their faces and see
the dead and puffy, pasty skin, and dull eyes, and
the sweat coursing down in sooty streams, ana
you know they are human. _ The longer they work
at the game, the more certainly are they doomed
.—in Queenstown with sulphur, and in Zeehan
with lead. The feeders at the furnaces have the
worst of it, for they stand right among the flue-
dust, which is composed largely of arsenic and
lead. Those know, who have been leaded, what
this means; to others “being leaded” is just a
phrase. At some of these furnaces the heat is so
great that the leather of the boots scorches. # ,
One night I lay under the dump at Captain s
Flat and watched the burning slag stream down.
Such a sight might almost make one believe in
Hell, with molten fire being poured down to tor-
ture the wicked who have passed out. It was a
black, starless night, but as the slag-pots were
emptied above, and the contents came streaming
down like writhing serpents, or wolf-heads with
fangs closing inwards, they lit up the creek and
trees till it was light as day ; and then the molten
live heat would die away into the blackness of the
bank.
In Zeehan, one showed me how you can run
your finger through the molten ore as it comes
out of the tap of the syphon from the vat, and
then he told me of a sight lie had seen m Broken
Hill, before they had removed the smelters to
[Port Pine. .
“The floor of the dump is‘made,’” he said,
“ otherwise it would be too rough for the slag-pots
to run along. When the rough edge has to be
smoothed, a man is put on. He digs a trench
first, and the slag is poured in in its molten state.
One day, a fellow was put on to make the floor,
and while he cut the trench we wheeled the slag-
pots and left them standing by him. Then he
stood up and began to walk backwards, looking
at the trench as a man will look at his work.
Then I heard an awful yell, and I saw that he
had sat back in the slag-pot, and it had tipped up
and the stuff had run all over him. He only gave
one cry, and in 20 seconds he was dead. That is
one of the things I’ll never forget. When we
took off the cold slag it stripped the flesh to the
bone.” . , ..
Life in these mining towns is never dull.
Even the smelters, whose hard lives should breed
hatred of the place, never seem to be satisfied
away. They leave and go back again. They
have “ good times.”
One Saturday night I went to bed and woke
next morning with a hazy idea of a monotonous
sound as of the waves lapping the sea-beach, and
a memory of being wakened through the night.
Once I heard my door tried and a knock, and an
impatient voice which said, “Wha’s good er
knockin’! Open er door an’ drag him outer bed !
“ The door’s locked,” said somebody else.
“ Well, le’s burst the dum thing in. Say,
come an’ have a drink wi’ us ! ” Then “He mus
be asleep !” —and a fading away of sound down
the corridor. Beneath me there was an all-night
gambling-school, and further off there was an all-
night bar murmuring.
After breakfast I went to sit by the fire in a
remote parlor, and soon after a clay-soiled miner,
with his crib-bag, came in and sat down. Then
a couple of young fellows in their Sunday clothes
widened the fireside circle, and after that another
man, who had not yet changed his shift-clothes,
rambled unseeingly in and sat a dead weight into
a chair.
Our numbers increased, and then somebody
offered to throw someone else for drinks all round,
and after that somebody offered to tug-of-war
someone else on the floor for drinks all round, and
they tugged, while we dodged the travelling chairs
and tables, and a few stood on the piano; and
then the tug-of-war was interrupted by a man
falling in the fire, after which mostly everybody
left to tug in the yard.
But one man remained behind —a broad man,
who evidently had something to think out, or who
had been drunk the night before. And while he
sat dangling his unlit pipe in one hand, with his
eyes fixed on the fire, another man came in and
said: “ What’s amiss, old chap ? ”
Now, the thoughtful man did not understand
the solicitude of the other fellow, and he said
something nasty; but the other fellow held out
his hand magnanimously, and said, “If I’ve said
anything I’m sorry for, I’m glad of it.”
“ You yust holt your tunk and don’t insoolt me,
can’t yer?” said the thoughtful man, who evi-
dently hailed from the Baltic.
“Certainly,” said Number Two. “I’m a man
of peace, and if I’ve said anything disrespectable
I ’ll apologise. Not that I’m afraid of you, you
long-chinned son of a Skye terrier and Yamba-
coona bear. I suppose you ’re not the daring boy
who jumped on the back of a buffalo and plucked
hairs out of his horns, or who dragged up the
long piles of Chicago, and come from a country
where they fight Djin-Djins. Here, give me a
shake of your forefoot, and come and have a
drink ; but I don’t care whether I drink with
you or fight with you.”
And this is how the typical miners of those
two blisters on the landscape pass their time-
working hard, breathing poison, and drinking
hard, a little sport and a fight or two, and bar-
parlor barracking, which often leads to a fight.
You reach Queenstown through the gates of
Paradise. When you have passed through the
King River gorge, you think Queenstown is worth
visiting. The river is banked by bosoming myrtle-
spread hills and the sassafras, and there is also
the laurel and waratah and the wattle, which
light up the scene wonderfully when spring comes.
The river is for ever coming out of these velvety
bosoms, and each bend seems even more delightful
than the last. The line rises the further you get
up the stream, till you leave the gorge with the
river hundreds of feet beneath; and then you
follow along a gully that is equally beautiful till
you reach the summit of the range, after which
you come to the awful blackness of the Blasted
Valley, Queenstown. *
ROBERT BROTHERS.
Those who argue that the non-payment of
public school fees by the poorer classes of children
attaches no stigmato parentsor children, should ask
themselves why, if that be the case, the authorities
of Sydney University take such remarkable pains to
protect from the merest suspicion of being non-
paying, certain poorer class students of that insti-
tution. There are 11 bursaries in the University
devoted to students unable to pay their fees, and,
in order to keep the particular persons unidenti-
fiable, there is no record dealing with them avail-
able even to the Senate. The Chancellor is wholly
trusted in the matter, and his nominations ar
never known to either professors or stude:,r.-.


Loss of Af
and Nervous
Indigestion. Impifre Blood, Severe Headaches.
An Easy and Prompt Cure,
■Mrs. Marian Paseoe, of Christ-
church, New Zealand, sends a photo-
graph of herself and little boy and
says:
I had indigestion very badly.
- iy food rested heavy on my stom-
ach. I lost my appetite and rapidly
giew weak. My blood became im-
pure and I had almost constant
headache. I was so nervous I hardly
knew w r kat to do. A friend
gested that I try Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, which I did, and only a few
bottles made me strong and hearty
again. My little boy began to com-
plain, -said be was all tired out,
could not play, nor do anything.
He lost bis appetite, and grew weak
and languid. I tried the Sarsapa-
rilla on him also, and be was soon,
"perfectly well. 11 ’
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
When you lose your appetite, when your food distresses you, and when
your nerves are weak, you may know that severe disease is not far away
Taken in time, the cure is easy and prompt. You must strengthen your
digestive organs, purify your blood, and put your whole nervous system into
better, condition Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will do this for you every time. And
xt will give to languid and thin children the energy and vitality natural to them.
Experiments are dangerous. Avoid imitation Sarsaparillas. Insist always
upon getting Ayer’s, the oldest, strongest, best Sarsaparilla.
AYER’S s arsaparilla
Makes the Blood Rich and the Nerves Strong
Constipation, biliousness, sick-headache, —all cured by flyer’s Pills.
*7^
1.
'ey
§3?
iv\
On Our Selection, written by A. H. Davis
Steele Rudd ”) and published by Tim
Bulletin Co., has earned the title of “the
jolliest book ever printed in Australia.' 1
There is laughter on every page; yet the
book remains grimly true to the facts. As
a picture of life on an Australian selection
it has never been surpassed. Since it was
published, little more than two years ago,
upwards of 1-2,000 copies have been sold at
the comparatively high price of Os.—making
. me comparatively nign price oi os.;—making
an Australian publishing record. The reason of the sale is not far to seek : the
people who have bought the book know they have got value for their money -
and they recommend it to others. The price is comparatively high because the book is expensive ta
produce. It is well limited, and strongly bound in cloth in good sty le. There are numerous pictures
by such well-known illustrators as Mahoiiy, Leist, Lambert, Fischer, Fullwood, and Vincent From
cover to cover the book is Australian-the product of Aus- OIU
tralian workmen. If it were produced by cheaper labour
in England, it would cost less, and could be sold at a
cheaper rate. The publishers prefer to employ Australian
labor only. When you buy On Our Selection you pay
a little more than you pay for an English book ; but
you get 100 times the Australian value. “ Steele Rudd’s ”
book has gone all over Australia, and wherever it has
gone it has become the treasure of a household, often
khe.'lelight of a township. People never leave off
reading it-until it is thumbed to rags; arid then they
buy another copy. The characters of “ Our Selection
“Old Dad,” “Joe,” “Dave,” “Sarah,” and the rest —
ottru.li, aim tut; rest —
have become famous throughout the country ; and their imitation by weaker writers proves the force
of their grip on the public mind. Any bookseller will sell you the book ; or if you send a postal
order tor 65., with Bd. postage, direct to The Bulletin office, it will be forwarded to any address
by return mail. J
OUR
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
t*
m
o
xM
fieS
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED ;
IN
HOT WEATHER,
Ind entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.'
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- &. 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
i *
1 9
■«r%
Mice
k~T=t
55a®
ill]
■II
r/
*&*
m
trtrlt
•/>
The “LANCET” says
“We counsel the public to drink Lime-Fruit Juice
whenever and wherever they list. It is a
wholesome drink than any form of Alcohol.’
« Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice either with water or
aerated water is a delightful thirst quencher.
" - Sola Consignees :
EVASS SOUS, LESCHER, A WEBB, Limited,
London and Liverpool.
AGENTS—Eiaiott Bros., Ltd.; J. Cohuktx 4 Co., Bydn*f. \
JO. Cohen A Co.» Newcastle.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
pEfffjp’S
sucl » as Wi' l ' - ! V>d Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
lrt _„ f {jfff’ I wlncss and Swelling after Meals. Dizziness and Drowsiness; Cold Chills, Flush-
L °a B °,i A l?P etlto Shortness of Breath. Cos ivcness, Blotches on the .Skin, Dis-
WJLL GIVE RFTiFF &c ’ T,IB FIRST DOSE
Mriw IXX-XIEF IN TWEN IY MINX I XS. Xiiis ia no Action. Every sufferer is
edSt-ATBOX’’ 0116 B ° X Pills ’ and ‘hey will be acknowledged to be" WOfIITH A
I>BBCH *M S BILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. Thev
promptly i emove any obstruction or irregularity of tiie system. For a y
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
uscu ai System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing hack«the, keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with theßosebud op Hkai.th the Whole Phystoal Energy of the human frame. These
e acts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
eivous and 1 ebilitated is that Reeeham's Pills have the Lamest Sate oj any Patent Atedieinein
he world. Full directions with each Box. * '
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire,- ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes. Is 1 cl. ami lis oil each.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR'S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
Ur
“Made inhalf-
a minute by
the mere ad-
dition of boil-
ing water"
IN PINT
PACKETS.
Manufacturers—JOHN MOIR & SON, LTD., LONDON. ABERDEEN and SEVILLE.
Head Officers & 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON, E.C.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The most comfortable and up-to-date House in town ; and, being the most centrally situated,
is naturally the most desirable place for Visitors to,;stay at.
H.B.—Visitors oply pay for wbat tbcy actually bayc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments :
BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
SINGLE ROOfl, with Full Board, 6s. per day, £2 2s. per week.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT
ROBERTS' HOT€L, SYDNCY.
NOTE.
-Send to Roberts' Wine and Spirit Store, Market St., Tor Price List.
.It is an Eye-Opener.
•
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SLQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.F.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled'by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
laily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
■Methods discarded. DR. MARTI M’S latest discovery has provedabsolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis. Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
atest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients treated by
correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One Pound. All Sufferers
should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work, entitled, “Mind Over Matter; or, How to
Secure a Mew Lease of Life without Drugs, Medicines, or Quack Nostrums.” This work should find a place
n every household, bait contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
\o-e. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
herein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment In Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS i 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,*’ 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


Asbestos
for Boilers.
Experiments have proved the great economy
effected by covering Steam Pipes and Boilers.
Asbestos Boiler Covering 1 saves, among other
things, 25 per cent, in fuel.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3cwt. casks,
75., Bs., 9s» ewt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 125., 145.,
16s. cwt,
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE STREET
(Between Hunter end Bend Streets).
RARE.)
n
BOORS
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN.
*/•
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box 116 PARIS.
LADIES—>
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., SOO Collin* Bt., Melbourne
60
TEARS DYEING
FOR XU LADIES.
CL ELDEIDGE &c CO. ?
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 TOEX STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Ordert by post from, all the colonies promptly
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK-
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Pomps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Cataloßuo*
MA
Celebrated
PLATE and
Pocket-Knives & Scissors cutlery
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Peoprs.. SHEFFIELD
At tho Showroom*—
Em Dire Chambers, 93 York-St.
SYDNEY.
Also at
“THE 3SXaC3C3BC,» #
Collins-st.. MELBOURNE.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Have for Sale and to arrive
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 435 Bourke Street.
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors, Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers’
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shaf ing, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil, Brunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED
Consulting Engineers on all matters relating to mining, hydraulic, and general engineering
propositions. Manufacturers and importers of mining machinery, and steam engines and boilers
of all kinds. Mines furnished with complete plants—Milling, Concentrating, Cyaniding,
Chlorinating, &c. Pumping outfits designed and supplied with all plans necessary for erection,
capacity guaranteed. All classes of pumps kept in stock and ready for immediate delivery;
together with boilers, pipes, and other items of equipment. Correspondence invited from
pastoralists and others requiring plant for irrigating purposes. Brickworks designed and brick-
making machinery of the most modern and approved pattern supplied to order. Quotations
given for complete installation of any kind of plant whatsoever. Iron and woodworking tools
and all kinds of engineers’ fittings and supplies kept in stock. Agents for Ingersoll rock drills
and air compressors, Knowles pumps, Gates rockbreakers, etc., etc., etc.
ADDRESSES :
1
fijssi
fi
a
t
60 Clarence St.,
Sydney
533 Collins St,
Melbourne
21 & 23 Fremont St,
San Francisco
Bushman
and
Harry Morants
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Buccaneer
By FRANK RENAR.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO..
SYDNEY.^
©ays
Sizb, 51" x 31" x 5".
We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
v (all si/, fnr all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
Ri L. Scrutton &Co. Ltd.
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT,
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
and Produce Merchants. ——
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
DRINK i i——mar
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Manufacturers of RACKAROCK
444444444444444444444
■
Manufacturers and Sole Proprietors of the new
Patent Explosive Compound,
RENDROCK
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH.
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last, dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS Of SELF
CURE, will forward the Bame, tree of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Trewhella Bros/
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
i
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
iou can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Pmqe
Double Purchase Jack 4 65/-
» 93 n 6 75/-
Single „ „ 2} 40/-
With AUTOMATIC LOWERING GEAR, 5/- extra.
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victoria,
or H. HINDS, 17 Loftns St., Sydney.
