

Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
iau g. , virja. i i?KSLi3Mrs ac co.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
* —FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
INSIDE BEARINGS*
FittfiaeJfti.’ttos tapßxasnteti
reef
waaass&ix
ii i i, imßmSiH—— l —-
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE.
“ Ararat (Victoria), 25th Aug., 1902.
“ During the past few years Eczema has become of very
frequent occurrence, especially in children. In the treat-
ment of this troublesome affection the usual medicinal
remedies failed in many cases to give relief, and I was very
pleased to have a new preparation, named Oleac, put into
mv hands for trial. I can recall-to my mind three ot
children in which the usual remedies had no beneficial
effect, and the application of ‘ Oleap ’ according to the
printed directions removed all the irritation of the skin.
I have also heard of many adults using the Oleac with
great benefit.—JAMES SMEAL, Surgeon, &c„ Ararat
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ,
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° so put street, SYDNEY.
INDENTS EXECUTED. SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINE
STEEL CASTINGS, HAMMERS, FILES.
lERY.
99
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard /ustra.ian Explosive. Cor CLARENCE & K.WC STS., SYDHE^
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
Radley s Orient fiotei.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
j. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
Tawny Port
Invalid Port
Golden Sherry
V.O. Frontignac
Rich Constantia
PENfOIiI’S WINES
No. 0 Claret
No. 1 Claret
Chablis
Tokay
Muscadine
_ . , T«/r«»Thonrne 1902. Championship, Adelaide, 1902.
Championship of Australia, Melbourne,
PIONEER
LEATHER
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 21 3 3J 4 6 6 8 10 12 inch.
_/Y _/9 V- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/ 8 3 / 4 it
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/6 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by __ _ . ,_ n
J. c. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
the world-renowned
Ediswan • Lamp.
r
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE WM & SWAN
United Electric Light
Cg., Ltd.
Australasian Brunei, 16
WYNYARD SQUARE, bYDNE .
Q’nsland Depot-Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane
——
Mining and Dredging Wants
Cnuflai* Tn cfinn
Engines, Boilers, &o.
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
m
m
PROOF
USE
Head Office:
10 BUCH ST., SYDNEY
boomerang
The Lancet states :
'A SOUND, HONEST BRANDY, whicl
nur analysis and examination show
,o be ff a FRAGRANCE. PURITY and
quality second to none.
RANDY
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE A REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 25.; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaeonsfleld Parade
ST. HILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
i- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, efco.
TTCTHEN buying a KEROBENE OAS BTOVE Insist
VV 0 n getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe:
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia—
els on and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
V 01.24.— No. 1194. ]
[Saturday, January 3, 1903.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper^


Book trade fldoertisewenjs.
J. LIDDELL KELLY’S POEMS.
“HEATHER AND FERN.” Now Ready, 300 pp. Price 5s
Wellington, N.Z ; No Publishers'or Selling Agents. ’ - fr ° m Auth ° r ’ Mw * ealanl Ti ™*
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK'o MAIL
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop.
Mason, Four Feathers, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Westall, The Sacred. Crescents, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Philpotts, The River, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Brownell, The Heart of Japan, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Ohatfleld-Taylor, Crimson Wing, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Garvice, In Cupid’s Chain, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Oliver, A.B.C. Solo Whist, Is, p. 3d.
- -’,7° r,- 8 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Bloundelle-Burton, Fate of Valsec, 2s 6d & 3s 6d p 6d
Cooper, George and Son, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d F
Choimondeley Moth and Rust, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
£ h ® of Mar - V Maclane, 2s (id &3s 6d, p. 6d
Ned, The Modern Conjurer, 6s, p. 7d. P
Winter, Connie the Actress, Is, p. 3d"
7 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) &at Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane & London
The Bulletin's Popular Publications*
CASTRO’S
LAST SACRAMENT
and Other Stories, by ALBERT DORRINGTON.
The Most Brilliant Short Stories ever written
in Australia
SECOND THOUSAND. Cloth, 4s. 6d.; postage 7d.
BUSH iiAN AND BUCCANEER
°“ postage,^ld!
For full List of Publications, see end of Books.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd., 214 George-St., Sydney, Australia.
For
***© LUNq-S, the
. .l/yU .
THROAT, the VOICE.
. THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ at
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
L. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
B. A lobe of one of the lungs
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
LINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
S jyjpßES (Registered).
UNDER THE GUMTREE
D EARLY-BELOVED
BRETHREN,-You
will find our text this
morning in The Dis-
position of Shakespeare , a 10pp.
reprint of a lecture delivered by
P. McM. Glynn, 8.A., LL.B.,
M.H.R. :
S M.II. ft. , at least, is vain display ;
and LL.B. isdenmi red to. A writer’s
rule of Taste declares that he is
justified in stating himself, in intro-
ducing himself, but not in parading
himself. In so far as he parades, he
ceases to be writer and becomes a
literary peacock. The House of
Representatives is doing nothing in
this galley. The Law may say in
defence that i L.B. implies some
capacity to weigh evidence con-
cerning the disposition of Khakespear
—(in regal'd to the spelling of this
uncertain name, orthography follows G. B. Shaw’s lead,
and modernises, as we have modernised other spellings of
Shakespear’s epoch)—and the plea is recorded doubtfully.
B.A. passes as the literary credential of a literary per-
formance.
The inferences are that P. McM. Glynn is ignorant of
the rule of Taste ;or that he is a peacock. The fact is
that he is Irish.
The Irish, and those of Irish blood, have visibly less
unconscious phlegm, less conscious self-restraint, than
men of most other races—of the Teutonic races, for
example. “D’ ye see the tail av me coat ? Thread an it
iv ye dare!” is, you observe, a double-barrelled quota-
tion. The Irishman is not always asking us to combat ;
frequently he contents himself with firing one barrel, he
invites us merely to observe, to admire—what? Well, his
genius, his valour, the marvel of his oratory or the
magnificence of his hair. The Irishman is intensely
aware of Himself. Privately he is amazed at him-
self—for some reason, any reason, no reason, the
Lord does not know what reason. But he is not content
with closet self-adoration : he seeks the wonder and
applause of his fellows. The world is his pedestal, and
up he poses. The slightest pretext serves. An Irishman
once sought to gain my praise of his great toes, which
were certainly abnormal. Having gained it, he put on
his boots, plumed his Ego, and asked for a drink. That
was trifling payment for the honour of seeing the tail of
his coat.
Naturally, Irishmen are drawn irresistibly to public
life—through the Press, on the platform', in Parliament.
They are seen ; they are heard of; they are talked about.
Sooner or later they will show you their great toes.
The explanation is that the Irish are the most savage
of quasi-civilised races. They cling closest to their
aboriginal ancestry: scratch an Irishman, and you see
Brian Born. . Seif-display is of the essence of savage life :
the savage who is depreciated is lost. He cannot afford
■ to wrap his virtue round him and sit contentedly aloof,
believing thijt the high gods witness ; the manna of self-
righteousness is no food for him ; he must bestir himself
for maria, or he will be contemned, he may be cooked.
So he struts, he beads himself and feathers, his scalps
hang at his girdle, at public assemblies he announces
himself—“ I am So-and-So ; these are my titles to
honour”—and recites the deeds he has done, and the
deeds his ancestors have done, before proceeding to brag
about the deeds that he will never do except in dreams.
Then the tribe is impressed, and cries “ Skall 1 ” or some-
thing to that effect.
The savage must impress himself his tribe. But
there is less necessity for the exhibition of great toes in
the life we live now, and the tendency of civilisation is to
hide them—perhaps decently. Under the dominion of
law and order,” fearless of any club but the police-
man’s, we have leisure to polish our brains and culti-
vate subjective impressions, and we realise that egregious
self-display is “ not the thing.” For we cannot but be
conscious of it, So, usually, the normal Briton is gaudy
(“ excessively showy ; tastelessly gay or fine ”) only when
he figures in an Oddfellows’ procession, or some kindrec
mob. Then the instinct of the tribe brings out his ole
vanity, and he is tribally glorious, privately ridiculous
in a red sateen collar.
The public change from savagery to civilisation implie
an individual change of vanity into pride—pride being
private vanity and vanity a public pride. Another proo:
that civilisation makes us more solitary, less sociable
Practically the whole of a savage’s life is passed in
public ; civilisation shuts us up in the house of our own
“with a fence round it, too,” that the New Australia
Socialists craved for, being tainted with modernity. We
unite for the absolutely necessary, and separate for every
thing else. Even the double bed is going out of fashion
Who so sociable as the Irish ? Their brain is two
hundred years behind the average Briton’s brain in
point of aptitude for the constraints, the restraints, the
smug compromises and time-serving obe'sances o
civilised life. That, in one way, is neither a merit nor
fault; it is a simple fact. In anotherwav.it is high merit
because the remains of primitive man in us add much
to the variety and value of life. Primitive man is
picturesque integer.; he counts in himself: modern
man is generally a cipher in a population-sum. When
all the aboriginal races have passed under the heavj
roller of civilisation, when poetry has been refined out of
us and the smoke of factory chimneys obscures the sun
rise, Humanity may seem a very weary, monotonous mass
to anyone not thoroughly adapted to the bondage
of conventional and artificial. With disabilities often
arhiable, the Irish have most of the savage virtues
They can drink well and fight well in an
age which is fast losing its stomach and its
muscle ; they preserve the tradition of the bards for the
despair of a breed of peddling poetasters ; we owe them
much of our humour, most of our pathos, all of our
eloquence, and the best hope of our birth-rate. There
fore, let us be tender to them ; let us cherish them ; let
us not 3wear at them profanely ; and when they show us
the tails of their coats let us tread gently, lest (in the
first place) we physically rue it, and lest (in the second
place) peradventure we tread upon the equivalent of the
sacred name of Allah.
§lt is true that nowadays we must burn incense to
Mammon ; and to succeed in the writer’s trade you shal:
advertise brazenly, shamelessly, and count it no sin.
So in the lawyer’s trade ; and the plea of necessary advt.,
if made by P. McM. Glynn, must be accepted.
before some South Aus-
tralian society unspecified
Dearly Beloved Sisters and Brethren, as there
is no more space available on this occasion, the
remainder of the sermon will delivered on the
next occasion.
The present state of N.S.W. art education is
this. The two rival societies have been mechani-
cally united by the force of a paternal Govt. : the
photographs of their leading members appear in
the same frame ; but the claws are sheathed, not
cut. Guelphs and Ghibellines occupy together
the rooms formerly tenanted by the Society of
Artists. The new Art Society has a Govt, subsidy
of £950 per annum, of which £l5O goes to main-
tain the travelling scholarship now held by Lam-
bert. Both of the united societies conducted
classes for students ; and there is a third set of
classes conducted under direct Govt, supervision at
Sydney Technical College. The results of this third
set, as exhibited, range from tolerably bad, past
intolerably bad, to shocking. N.S.W. IVEmister
for Public Instruction, in whose department the
matter is, apparently wishes to harmonise and
economise, and is understood to suggest that a
single set of classes be formed under the direction
°fN,S.W. Gallery trustees, following the method
which in Melbourne has proved so successful.
The difficulties are, firstly, the Technical College
staff wishes to preserve independence; secondly,
the Gallery trustees are, for the most part,
incapable of organising and managing classes
—their board being composed partly of
elderly dilettanti who have permitted the
money voted for Gallery support to be wasted in
purchasing inferior pictures in London. What
the Minister should do is this : Abolish the in-
efficient Technical College classes; cut off the
Society’s subsidy for instruction; remodel the
Gallery trust by appointing a dozen or so addi-
tional members, chosen from painters and model-
lers* or sculptors locally practising; provide, until
permanent accommodation is available, temporary
accommodation for classes under the supervision
of the remodelled trust; and appoint a new man—
*l - competent painter, with up-to-date experience,
who has not been concerned in past squabbles—as
Govt, art-instructor, at a salary of £5OO a year or
so. A suitable instructor would: be John Longstaff,
if he would take the post ; failing him, some
competent stranger. There is no local painter
thoroughly qualified for the place ; and some of
them are disqualified by the heritage of the
scotched feud. But the local painters would make
good supervisors.
One needs to see the >vork in all the Australian
metropolitan galleries to realise how far LongstafF
stands above other Australian-born painters.
To A Lady in Black and Henry Lawson one
must add The Sirens and The Bash Fire,
before measuring his scope. There is ambi-
tion in The Sirens , and strength to justify it;
while The Bush Fire is the most memorable
picture of Australia yet painted. It needed only
a larger canvas; the touch of real grandeur is
limited by the frame. Paterson’s Bush Symphony
has melodious colour in it, but it holds no mean-
ing, no magic. By the way, no one has noted yet
that Turner loved Australian trees without know-
ing them. In his water-colour sketches at Bond.
National Gallery, and in his later pictures, you
see time and again his preference for the thin-
foliaged, sprawling, romantic kindred of the
euealypt.
G. W. Lambert’s four paintings, exhibited in
N.S.W. Art Society’s rooms, and taken as work
of 1901, show that he has made good use of his
time since the travelling scholarship was awarded
him. In drawing, modelling, colouring, he has
improved. His note in these pictures is a
note of cleverness rather than of power ; but
there is a beginning of high technical mastery in
The Guitar-Player, painted for N.S.W. National
Gallery and exhibited at Paris New Salon.
At present Lambert is conquering Paint. The
three other pictures rank as bright student’s
work : all have admirable touches, and all
are somewhat tame and lifeless. Lambert’s
skill is shown in the excellent handling of
a seated nymph ; and his inexperience in the
peculiarly strained and - ungraceful pose of her
recumbent comrade’s raised arm. *
■ ♦
Vol. II of the new edition of Chambers’s
Cyclopredia of English Literature is concerned
chiefly with eighteenth-century writers. Some
five hundred are discussed ; and necessarily the
notices are curt. The criticism, though it holds
nothing enthralling, is usually Scottish and dis-
creet. Of Blake, James Douglas writes—■
A divinely patient painter and a divinely impatient
poet, his impatient poetry is rarer and finer than his
patient designs . . . Although Blake was not quite sane,
neither was he quite insane. He lived in that unexplored
region which separates madness from sanity, and in which
imagination is supreme. . . . Wordsworth said the last
word on this question. The madness of Blake interests
us more than the sanity of other men. His swift word
flashes out of the clouds, leaping on us like lightning in
brief miracles of lyrical beauty. ... He was the. first
child to be a poet, the first poet tQ be a child.
One remarks with some wonder that (in a book
ranking as a classic of reference) the writer of the
notice of Jane Austen is permitted to say she “is
great on mistakes in the education of girls.” Vol.
11l is to deal, among other things, with Austral-
asian literature—adequately, let us pray.
Lond. Academy, by the way, was recently
collecting slang passages, not intended, from
classical writers; and found, among others
alleged,
’T was even an awful shine
From the exaltation of Apollo’s bow-
in Keats’s Endymion. Unless here missed, no one
hit upon
He looks well on’t !
Lafeu’s comment in act v, sc. 3, of All’s Well
that Ends Well.
-Che Reminiscences of t>li6 l&to William jVl&cQUciriG
Cowper, N.S.W. Anglican dean, have consider-
able personal and ecclesiastical interest. Literary
interest is supplied only in a sonnet addressed to
the dean by the Anglican Archbishop of Svdney
which proves that the Arcfibishop knows a
little more about sonnets than Cardinal Moran
knows, but not much more: It was Card. Moran
you remember, who before reading Aubrey
De Vere’s congratulatory sonnet to his Jubilee
flock, apologised for the fact that it was “only a
little one”—“rather a short sonnet, containing
only fourteen lines,” said his beaming Eminence”
The Archbishop’s sonnet has not more than
fourteen lines; but they are very bad ones •
so his performance cannot be held decisive
testimony to Anglican supremacy. For Dean
Cowper: he died in his ninety-second year
/ , ] nice old man ! ah, the fine old man ! ”
(as the ladies said)—-and it was in his eighty-eighth
year that he set himself to recount certain pas-
sages in the life of W llliani Cowper, his father the
chaplain of convicts; and in his own life. The
record, as an apologetic preface explains grew
naturally somewhat incidental and fragmentary
towards, the close. It is a book for the dean’s
tnends, lor the clergy and the Anglican devout:
there islitcle m it for the historical student of our
Early Days. Dean Cowper’s life was his best
work.
John Liddell Kelly, editor of N.Z. Times an
occasional Bulletin rhymer and an industrious
extra-Bulletm rhymer, 1S issuing a volume of his
verses under the title Heather and Fern (advertised
on this page). Says the new author : “ Goethe
wrote that poetry can not be hidden,’ and said of
the persistent maker of verse—‘ He will road it- •
tV the -fellow, b
Ihefellov does it, sooner or later.” Mr Kellv
is acting as his own publisher, and his book will
be essentially a Maoriland product.
Mu mey’s, noticing Abbott’s Tommy Corn-
staZk, says Australia is not likely to be content
to remain dependent for her mental pabulum upon
Frank Norris, the clever and ambitious author
of The Octopus, died at Ban Francisco in Novem-
ber, when about to sail for Europe in a <jrain-ship
to get material for the third volume of his “ Epic
of the Wheat.” The second volume, describing
the operations of a Chicago wheat-ring, is to be
published next March.
Memoranda —
Ob. , G. D. Brown, author of The Home with the Green
Shutters.
The M crobe, that little Melb. journal of amateur
literary aspirations, edited, printed, and published by a
book-shop employee, ended with No. 8. And the Yarra
smells on. ' . '
La Farge’s article on Diirer, well' illustrated, makes
l)ec. McClure’s worth buying. There is, too, an out-
sider’s account of a W. Amer. buckjumping competition.
Australian “ Christmas Numbers ” are certainly
improving. In {joint of mechanical art they are
below the English ones ; the illustrations are
usually inferior; but the literature shows a
distinct tendency to encourage brains, and
to leave the smug English phttern. The Austra-
lasian still clings to foreign chromo. supple-
ments, and presumably pays 3d. per lb. duty ;
but The Town ami Country Journal patro-
nises Australian workmen, and its picture of
Australasian wild flowers, printed by W. C.
Penfold & Co., does that firm credit. A photograph,
“Western Wlittle,” sent to The Australasian by
A. J. Cffrnpbell, deserves transfer to canvas :
with one or two flaws it is an admirable
study. S.A. Critic and Sydney Worker rank
well for intellectual interest. The latter
reprints Bulletin verSe without acknowledg-
ment. Melb. Punch has some taking' drawings
by Will Dyson. The Freeman’s Journal has
verses by Quinn and Daley ; and The Newsletter,
whose tone blocks are uncommonly well printed,
has one of Daley’s interesting sketches of early
experience. The Federal Press, Sydney, issues
The Christmas Sway, edited and illustrated by
George Taylor. The colour-printing is crude;
but the contents are smart, and effective for sale.
Holds worth, Macpherson and Co-., iron-
mongers, of Sydney, issue The Horse in Australia,
a 32 pp. illustrated advertising pamphlet, printed
by Sir Joseph Causton and Sons, Limited, in
England ; and Mark Foy, the Sydney drapei’, has
covered Sydney hoardings with an art poster
printed in England. Presumably the Federal
duty of 3d. per lb. has been paid in both cases;
but one would like to be sure. Anyway, the
point is that both the pamphlet and the poster
could be just as well done in Sydney, probably
at no greater cost ; and these Sydney firms should
help to maintain local designers and local printers,
and spend their money in the country where they
make their living. "Otherwise, one trusts the
Federal duty will go up to fid. per lb.
4, ’
CORRESPONDENCE.
H.M.: NOj there is no animosity against him. Con-
sidering his temptations, considering his opportunities,
King Edward’s record may be held an uncommonly good
record—for a monarch. Which of us, placed by the acci-
dent of birth in the King’s position, can say he would
not have offended as much, or more ? The writer vividly
remembers attending, years ago, the meeting of an East
London Democratic Club, now gathered to limbo. It was
the time when the Mordaunt scandal was at its height;
and speaker after speaker rose to condemn scathingly the
conduct of the Prince of Wales. The air of the meeting
was full of I’harisaic virtue ; and speaker after speaker was
applauded. At last uprose a horny-handed, gruff-voiced
denizen of Battersea or Bermondsey, and ‘quotha: “ I
don’t agree with all this here abuse of the Prince of
Wales. I think he’s done precious little bad, considering
the chances he’s had. I ask all the gentlemen
that have spoken to put themselves in his place—
especially ,'n the matter of women. Think how they
throw then’so’ves at his head ! He goes to a ball, and all
the finest women in the country crowd round him with
barn arms and bosoms, dressed up to the nines and flash-
ing With jewellery., A» d what do they say ? what do their
eyes cay? They say, “You’re the Prince of Wales:
come! come!” By the Hokey, if I was the Prince of'
vv pies, do von think I’d refuse? Not me 1 And I’m open
to w'gar that not one of the gentlemen that has spoken
is so short of the grit of a man that he’d refuse either.
I say it’s not the Prince of Wales’s fault, considering his
chances, I do." And the meeting realised so fully the
hypocrisy of previous utterances that its cheers were
captured; and instead of condemning the Prince of
A passed a resolution condemning the corrupt
social system at the apex of which circumstances had
placed him.
W.H.R. : Thanks for kind enquiries. In politics, The
mokfeMow is a radical conservative; in literature and
other arts the modern spirit permeates his ancient wis-
'toic ’* U P^ oso Pky Y ou llla y call him a cynical epicurean
Widgee: Your relation to Marie CoreiK : “Novel-readers
are imitativ e ; and if a book attracts one reader it is
handed or recommended to many more. lam of the
ordinary, type of readers, and tackle a new book as a
diner would a new soup—want to feel how it tastes. I
heard one of Corelli’s books— Vendetta —was a very-
rum book. J. read it, and helped to swell the Corelli cir-
culation by purchasing or borrowing several more of
her books. My feeling after reading these held neither
pleasure nor the reverse. I don’t think I would willingly
read any of the books a second time. I have compared
notes with many Corelli readers, and. the same feeling of
Nothing in it ’ appears to be their verdict. Do you not
think that my experience is that of many' more ?
ana that the multitude who expected to find some-
thing new in the lady’s works persevered through
. cer^ ain cumber in the hope of finding the new
thing? much as one bucks into ‘ Tattersall’s’ for luck.”—
This sheds light. The Corelli craze to-day, then, is as
previously suggested : a craze of vogue, like ping-pong’s,
maintained by the novelty of fresh books and the per-
sistence of advertisement. Marie Corelli, for the ordinary
sportmg novel-reader, has become a vice of habit—like
bucking into Tattersall’s.’’’ But how was her vogue
teamed r She was rum she had a wild imagina-
tion, a touch of salacity, a dash of religion, a style of
hysterical vigour ; and she was a woman, with an attrac-
tive advertising name, well-puffed. Yet all these things
might not sell another writer’s books ; so the origin of
the matter is possibly still unexplained.
RECEIVED.
The Sports or the World, part I, edited by F. G.
Altialo ; Cassell &Co. [Aljlalo is the ignorant, with a
smattering of knowledge and a fluent pen, who wrote
The Natural History of Australia (Macmillan).
He is accepted as an authority on sport and natural
history by—Lond. morning papers. These things
possibly help to make The Sports op the World an
excellent nine-penn’orth, with several interesting
articles, often well illustrated, the whole well printed. ]
A.G.S.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and C€., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
s YDNE Y.
SKINS
SEN^ALL^KfNTT?™”
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossu
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The Leading Salesmen ■ Full Values and Quick Ueturns.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Btores: PYRMONT.
er Cent, to tlie Grower
Small Accounts Alike.
Liberal Advances,
Accurate Valuations,
When required.
WOOL
Selling: Brokers-
PROMPT
RETURNS A
SPECIALITY.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, Ltd.
Special Attention to
details.
Weights carefully
taken.
Principals
having over 30 Years
Experience Conduct
All Wool Sales.
Offices and Stores:
Circular Quay,
Sydney.
s. freeman «• SONS LIMITED
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPEC! AI.TIRSj
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
map office: WTNTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
If HER GkAGK
NOR BURN.
5806
c
BB
0807
0808
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
GUARANTEE.-Should -J, *fo d T?, A f g „^7A B t |.'J T < , ‘ - B "« *
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, I*. 2d.
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. .
Quality not better in
a Guinea Pip©,
0.8.8.
C. 8.8.
0.8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6
each.
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, if- each.
0.8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/- each.
C. 8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Sterling
Silver Mounted Rim and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case.
8/6 each.
C. 8.8. Presentation Companion, con-
taining' two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Red Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 15/6 each.
C 8.8.
c.b.b:
jss jss m ssas
m*' fill I I 9nti
»It L
I 11.
m
£ RICHMOND,VA.
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States,
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to pur Clients and the Smoking Public. We
feel sure that one trial will be sufficient to con-
vince Smokers that “ SOLID SHOT ” is the finest
Tobacco on the market. Splendid aroma, and
does not bite the tongue.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, on© only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
WHOLESALE PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, m.s.w.
WHY WE USE NO DRUGS.
BECAUSE during over 20 years of constant application to the study of, and use of Electricity, we have
proven positively that if Electricity will cure a .certain ailment, or combination of ailments, that
DRUGS arean UNNECESSARY and always an EXCEEDINGLY EXPENSIVE auxiliary. Of
course, we all know that there are many ailments that require drugs, but in these cases a few doses are
sufficient. It is the CHRONIC case that will not get well without an addition of new nerve life.
Your condition shows you—at least, your experience does—that DRUGS won’t cure you. You need
new vigor, new steam power in that human machine of yours. Don’t let anyone induce you to waste your
money on DRUGS. If you use ELECTRICITY they are SUPERFLUOUS, AND ARE ALWAYS AN
EXPENSIVE ITEM.
We know our business thoroughly, and when we tell you that your symptoms require Electrical aid and
that we can cure you, depend upon it our word is supreme. Follow our advice, let us apply
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
and in'ten days your system will begin to improve under the exhilarating influence of the soothing, healing
electric current being poured into it. In thirty days you will know that you are going to get well at last.
You feel new vigor, new life, a sense of elation and good spirits that you have been a stranger to for a long
time. Three months of this potent remedy is sufficient to cure the worst case of WEAKNESS, LAME
BACK, RHEUMATISM, NERVOUSNESS, GENERAL DEBILITY, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, IN-
DIGESTION or CONSTIPATION that ever existed; and then you will be able to lay aside the Belt a
new and, a cured man or woman. This has been the accomplishment of thousands. You join the happy
throng. You’ll bless us for urging you. Each week we give you new evidence.
FROM NEW ZEALAND.
I am so delighted with my Belt that I quite forgot all about
writing to you. fam pleased to he able to tell you Jthat'the pain over
my- heart lias entirely disappeared already, and I don’t tire so easily
as 1 used to. I will report my case to you again in 30 days.
I remain, yours sincerely,
Pahiatua, New Zealand. OTTO WEBB.
- FtfOn TASHANIA.
Since using your Belt, the pain in my shoulders and back is
entirely gone, and all feeling, as if my strength was gradually
leaving me, is over. X have no more horrible dreams, and am much
stronger in every way.
Yours truly,
Wesley vale, N.W. Coast.
ROBT. PIPER.
) WOMAN’S WOES CHANOED TO GLADNESS.
THE DR. McLAUQHLIN CO. 132 Union St., Brunswick, Melbourne, Vic.
Dear Sirs,—ln answer to vour letter asking about my health, lam more than pleased to tell you that, after yveariug-your high grade
Electric Belt for four weeks, I have received great, benefit. T have been a great sufferer for four years, both with my head and serious
inward complaints, also with rheumatism in mv wrist and knees, also with a weak back, and could not sleep at nights. But, now thank
God, that since I have used your Belt, I can sleep well, and my work is a pleasure to me.
I would recommend anyone suffering from weakness of any kind to try one of your Belts, and I am sure they will get relief. I will
be pleased to recommend your Belt to anyone who would write or call, for I know there are many poor sufferers who would like to get
relief like I have. Thanking you for all your kindness to me, I remain, yours gratefully, Mrs. NELLIE MoOAMEY.
What do such letters as the above mean to you, dear reader?
Simply this, that if you will follow our advice, you will write to us in
the same strain inside three months. While you are using: our Belt
you are under the care and advice of a Legally-Qualified Specialist of
over 30 years’ standing:—the only one in Australia who devotes his
entire time to Electric Treatment.
Our Belts are sent to all Countries Duty Paid.
Write to us for Explanation of “ Free Beit ” Frauds
4*
A
50%
NX
ill
V*
sv
DOCTORS ADVISED ASYLUJI.
Long Plain, Inverell, Ist December, 1902.
Dear Sirs,—l have been using your No. 7 Belt between two and
three months, and the pains have completely left me. I have not
been so well for 20 years. I never thought I would be so well. I
Was suffering unbearable pain, and life was a misery to me. When
your Belt cured me it will cure anybody, for all the doctors told
me I could never get well, and urged me to go into the asylum.
I can do any kind of work now.
Yours sincerely, PATRICK GRIFFIN.
FREE BOOK.
For the benefit of all persons interested in this Grand
Remedy, we publish a Beautifully Illustrated Book, giving
cuts, and showing how we apply Electricity in all Chronic
Ailments. It gives, also, many names of people cured.
Write for it. You may find the names of some of your
friends in it. Learn of the comfort with which our Belt can
be used. Don’t delay, but write to-day and get a book.
It’s full of good things a sick man likes to see. Advice and
consultation, EITHER IN THE OFFICE OR BY MAIL,
ARE ABSOLUTELY FREE. Write or call.
The Or. fflc[aughlin Co.
85 King-st, Sydney.
Melbourne Offices: 167 E Swanston St.


-
The Most Varied and
Complete Stocks
in Australasia of all
Photographic,
Phonographic and
Optical Goods
Specially
Suited
for the
Christinas
Trade.
CAMERAS by all leading makers. LENSES from the world’s
best factories. New Designs in “PREMO” and “ POCO ”
Cameras. The “SNAPPA,” the latest and most perfect of
Magazine Hand Cameras for either Plates or Films.
OPTICAL LANTERNS for Parlor or Hall. Slides in infinite
variety.
The favorite “ Austral ” Bromide Papers. Perfect in every respect,
and always fresh. Reduced in Price 25 per cent.
auoqsuq
■apwiapY
aiunocnau
■fiauphg
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.
- QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
TRADE
MARK
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
ONLY OF THE WORD FOX
which is a guarantee of soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges & Tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience . . .
FOX’S F*U RE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market. All FOX’S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the back—
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are not genuine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS & Co H Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOMtRSEI, England.
’S
FRU T
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
AND INVIGORATING.
REFRESHING,
SALT.’
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION. —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.. ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS. LONDON, ENG.,
by X C. ENO’S Patent.
THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
MANUFACTURING AND
DISPENSING CHEMISTS.
We frnm -p 6^ l remedie ? £or the corrects and effective treatment of Nerve and Blood Diseases. Testimonials
all sources P rov,n fT their efficacy. Write for Printed Price Lists ; they will be mailed free
‘ STOMACH DISO C R T DF I RS BE pT’J riC > IOS '’- ,IS ’ lal P? O6^ 1, *• infallible in the t ' ure of WEAKNESS and
I)Is y RD EBS- Electricity re-uivigorates the vital nerve sections, jroverniiis- the processes
nutrition. It effects a sure cure. DR. CLARKSON’S “ RE-INVIGORATOR ” s
VITALISING ISERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT. We still offer £lOO for anv
PVEIMm pTrTrmT 7 *' P " Thr ” «• »W to
PYRAMID PILE CURE.-A certain remedy. FITS-EPILEP.-A remedy for Epilepsy in all its forms
FlN &c HA ?nvahfabl E e for country 6 fr ° m Sp ° tS ’ Red " eSS ’ R ° U * htless > freckles, Tan, Sunburn
FINCIIAM’S INFALLIBLE WORM POWBERS.-Specially suitable for children. A certain cure for worms
Note the Address : THE OWL CUT=RATE DRUG CO.,
C. P. FINCHAM, Chemist. 227 ELIZABETH STREET, Opp. Hyde Park, SYDNEY
M ELLIN’S
FUH INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
Is adafdted for use from birth.
Bond for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO.. Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
imntVMtuinnm
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
of attractive appearanoe, and for those reasons is reeom-
mended by the Mediori J^culty. Sure Preventative against Chillg
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
So# fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Kecom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body-
Os 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-6s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s Od
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
High or Low Necks.
s. d.
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 5 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ...76
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 6 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery .. .. .. 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. 9 0
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
Aertex Cellular Chemises.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices,
White Cotton, trimmed Embroidery,
Bs. White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
High or Low Necks. All sizes
to 30in ; large sizes, extra.
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
sole Agents. 73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Cellular Tennis Shirt*
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. (id. to 11s. 6d.
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. d.
01 Ecru 13in. deep .. .. 15 6
02 „ long waist, 14iin deep 16 0
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14Ain., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling-, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips .. 15 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels ... ~ 86
TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
NOW OPEN.
HOBART CUP—Elswick, Tas., Jan 21,1903 ... 50,000 at 5
LAUNCESTON CUP-Launceston, Tas., Jan. 28/>O3 50,000 at 5
NEWMARKET H’CAP—Flemington, Vic., Feb. 28 100,000 at 5
AUSTRALIAN CUP-Flemington, Vic., March 3 50,000 at 5
DONCASTER H’CAP-Randwick, N.S.W., April 11 25,000 at 5
SYDNEY CUP-Randwick, N.S.W., April 13 ... 25,000 at 5
Subscribers will please note that GEORPIf atva a™
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under' IICENS^ T f ATTERSALL "> STI
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their , E ™ the TASMANL
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no by | etter to friend
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to m dehvering the a PP lic ation i
Money can also be paid through anv Banl ' a
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart, 'or the CFedit of GEOR(
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount n 'If 11 - 8 When S ° doing wdl please requ
mount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be 3 ,
DELIVER V CO. doing business with Tasmania t 0 Hobart through any


Beauty, splendor, elegance! Rich
and heavy braids! Long and flowing
tresses!
Ayer’s Hair Vigor feeds the hair
and makes it grow long and heavy. It
stops falling of the hair, completely
cures dandruff, and keeps the scalp
clean and healthy.
As a dressing for the hair you will
certainly be greatly pleased with it
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
You can always rely upon it for
restoring color to your gray hair all
the full, rich color it had in early life.
There is no doubt about this. You
need have no fear of being disap-
pointed. We speak with a knowledge
that covers over fifty years of experi-
ence with this valuable preparation.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J C. Ayer&Co., Lowell. Mas* Jl.s. A
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS ■ 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
rnnlt sfc °P at door - AII work' guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice/ All
flair work sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations. entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
A GIFT for the LADIES.
1
We make this
SPECIAL OFFER
to Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
5/-
The Bunch,
Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS, with
OSPREYS, in Black, White or Cream.
Post Free. Send Postal Notes.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Oorner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
THE
Dark Room Dispensed With!
Write for Particulars of the Wonderful
kodak- -
DAYLICHT -
DEVELOPING
MACHINE. -
To be Obtained of all Dealers, or of
KODAK, Limited,
284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Please Mention this Paper.
S€ND US
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
F you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Place
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10/6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
Australian Mutual Provident Societv
Established 1840. , , IMCII 1 wUUItSIV
MAO ■>« hi Assurance on th ‘ Mutual Principle. J
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leaser old city or Suburban
Properties, or on
Debentures, Inscribed sKor^rS
h,r ne f Mortgaffe Deed contains a B?r™!^s^T riv^e AT^ S 0F ,NTEI * EST -
D i re iwTrr ng up to 20 per
Esq. , Senator J. T. Walker ; J. Abbott, Esq.; The Hon R j ri’ack \r T l n Pufc c'' C iJ al , rman ’ Benjamjn Short,
HE \n"omini" a or and Actuary—: Richard Teece, F.1.A..F.F A PSA ’ M ' L ‘ o, ’ F ‘ E ‘ Winchcomb*. Esq., M. p.
HEAD OFFICE; 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’ " rorert r
B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108-
H. Sillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
tSF Send for a
Catalogue.
Kjnai L OUIKieS,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
H HIIIIPO C* The Best and Cheapest.
n. MILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies A's in«
arven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £ 2 4sfiri^!
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.'''
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
*
'L'Hut
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence i Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thoa. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
dohn McKenzie A Co„
Launceston
New Zealand —
0. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, neiungto/i
and Chrlstchuroii.
“New Rival ” and “ Repeater ”
WINCHESTER
Shotgun Cartridges
“New Rival ” loaded with Black powder, and Repeater ”
loaded with Smokeless powders. When buying, always
insist upon having them, take no others, and you will get
the best Cartridges for the price that money can buy.
NO TROUBLE TO GET, AiiL DEALERS KEEP THEM.
WE STOCK
ALL «
WINCHESTER GOODS.
IV!‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH ST., fIELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS Catalogue
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books Se Married
Extra Special Catalog tie of
Jioolcs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
GOOD KAIR FOR ALL!
ALii Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. .Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
it ST For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
t@r For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 Geonre
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the Bill to prevent unqualified
dentists practising was before Queensland As-
sembly t’other day, the brilliant pro-Kanaka
Cowley wanted to know what was going to be
done to the unqualified person who extracted his
own tooth. Presumably he would be in the same
position that Cowley would occupy if he painted
himself black and illegally imported himself as
his own Kanaka.
Will Yer Write it Down for Me?
In the parlor of the shanty where the lives have
all gone wrong,
When a singer or reciter gives a story or a song,
Where the poet’s heart is speaking to their hearts
m every line,
Till the hardest curse and blubber at the thoughts
of Auld Lang Syne ;
Then a boozer lurches forward with an oath for all
disguise—
Prayers and curses in his soul, and tears and
liquor in his eyes—-
Grasps the singer or reciter with a death-grip by
the hand.
“ Thafc ’ s the truth > bloke ! Sling it at ’em ! Oh *
Gorblime, that was grand !
D ° n^ru mind me 5 IVe gofc ’ enj ‘ You know!
What’s yer name, bloke ? Don't yer see ?
Who’s the bloke that wrote the po’try ? Will yer
write it down for me ? ”
And the backblocks bard goes through it, uv@x
seeking as he goes,
For the line of least resistance to the hearts of
men he knows;
And he tracks their hearts in mateship, and he
tracks them out alone—
Seeking for the power to sway them, till he finds
it in his own,
Feels what they feel, loves what they love, learns
to hate what they condemn.
Takes his pen in tears and triumph, and he writes
it down for them.
HENRY LAWSON.
A Morning - Ride.
The gray old earth is waking,
Her breezes softly play,
And dreamy mists are taking
A tender leave of Day.
The slender sunbeams creeping,
With silver tip the grass,
And silently are peeping
Through frondage as we pass.
By sleepy mountains dreaming,
The winding creek along,
The cockatoos are screaming
To drown a sweeter song ;
And floating on, and slowly,
Through scores of distant dells,
The breezes bring us lowly
The sounds of tinkling bells.
On, on ! by waters seething
Where hidden timbers lie,
And past the smoke-wracks wreathing
To reach the sun-lit sky.
Unmarked, unmarred our course is
Where roving fancies play—
On, on ! ye laggard horses,
The earth is ours to-day !
The smoky sunlights strengthen,
The crooning waters flow—
Ah, Love, our course we’d lengthen
Were we but free to go ! . . .
When Life is young and easy,
And Joy is ours to seek,
Oh, in the morning breezy
To ride along the creek !
GILROONKY.
Star-Set.
All night the stars have sped across
The paddock-lands of sky ;
With shining eyes and manes a-toss
They swung in squadrons by
Within the thicket of the winds
They rested at mid-day—
The spears of morn gleam faint, and, 10,
The star-bands ride away.
Along the plains of dreamy night
The white battalions go ;
Down glens of misty, drifting light
The young stars ride a-row.
Beyond the scarping wall of dawn
They ride and disappear ;
Their clinking bridles far away
Sound cymbal-like and clear.
The ford of flowing song they pass ;
I see their stirrups gleam
Athwart the world like gems amass
Upon a velvet dream.
Down dark ravines they swiftly ride,
Pursued by trooper Day.
My star-friends wave Good-night and hide
Beyond their mountains grey.
The whistling stars grow silenter,
The earth is dark with light;
The star-troops mount and softly spur
Across the plains of Night.
GRANT HERVEY.


A Quiet
Nip ••••
Four Crown
Whisky
il
X -
The Miseries Caused
by a Torpid Liver.
The Only Safe Remedy Effects
a Perfect Cure.
The Cate of Mrs. M. HICKEY,
(by a special reporter.)
There is much profound and important
wisdom in that old proverb where it is said
—“ The heart knoweth its own bitterness.”
It forms part of a truth still more compre-
hensive—that every man knows his own
peculiar feelings, and difficulties, and trials
far better than he can get any of his
neighbours to perceive them, although in an
effort to - convey such impressions to other
minds lately made by Mrs. Marian Hickey,
of No 3 West-street, Paddington, the
subject dealt with was so clearly described
that no trouble should be experienced in
understanding her story.
“For several weeks,” said Mrs. Hickey,
“I had been feeling rather unwell, but
there was no particular cause for alarm
until one day I took a bad turn whilst doing
my work. Such a horrible feeling of faint-
ness came over me that I said I would see a
doctor, and so I did.”
“Did the doctor tell you what was
wrong ? ”
“ He said it was my liver and kidneys
which were causing the trouble, and that
the medicine which he prescribed was the
best thing I could have for my complaint,
but my sufferings, instead of getting less,
became fifty times worse than ever ; so after
taking that medicine a while I thought I
had better hasten to another doctor and see
if he could bring me any relief. For a day
or two I was slightly easier,, then the medi-
cine had no effect upou me, and I drifted
to the lowest depths of wretchedness.
Even then I did not lose heart altogether,
for I consulted another physician, and then
another, and so on till I could see it was no
use going to any more. My courage failed
me after all those bitter experiences, and I
1 bought my only chance would be simply a
matter of luck. If I could but get a good
physic amongst all those that were
advertised I might yet be relieved, I
thought; but after trying almost everything
nroeurable I was in a hopeless predica-
ment.”
“ Are you sure you did not receive some
benefit from all those medicines ?”
“ None whatever. They made me worse,
for I became as helpless as a child. Yes,
twelve years ago I lost the use of my limbs.
Why, I could not put my bauds to my head
to do my hair, and for five months I could
not walk except by the aid of sticks and
with some one to help me along. Oh ! it
was terrible ; and to think that I was not
going to see my children grow up was a
source of constant anguish. I had given up
nil hope of recovering, and felt as sure as I am
that I am sitting here that I would never
get better, and if you had seen me you
would have thought the same. Yon never
saw such a sight as I was—not a morsel of
flesh on my bones (I was as thin as a w'afer),
and my cheeks quite sunken. With rny
darkened complexion as well, I am sure I
looked the picture of death. I was aw-fully
nervous, too, for I used to jump up in the
middle of the night and fancy that some-
body w'as killing me, and if 1 had been able
to walk I would not have crossed the street,
as if anybody came near inepty limbs shook
like the branches of a treed There was no
peace in life for me, and I was so melancholy
with the thought that I was dying that I
resigned myself to my fate. Heavy pains
in the chest gave me such a horrible choking
sensation that 1 was afraid to lie down, and
1 had to be proppe 1 up in my chair because
of the excruciating pains in rny side and
back, de ween my shoulders the pain was
so severe that I used to have a lotion rubbed
in ; bn-, that did not ease them, and the
sight also being very bad, and if I washed
my mouth out a dozen times a day, it made
no difference to the bitter taste that was
there. I had no appetite for food, and
what little I was obliged to take gave me
violent pains in the stomach, which seemed
to be tied in a knot. When those terrible
cramps came on I used to think, ‘ Oh, dear, I
am goingfco expire I’but even death would not
come to my relief. Soon afterwards, how-
ever, the food came up again, and it was
that constant vomiting which made me as
weak as a kitten. Giddiness arid palpita-
tion came with the least movement, and I
felt so feeble that I knew the last *b - egs of
life would soon be exhausted.” t,
“ Unless you received relief you mean ? ”
“I did not look for help, because I
thought I was past all worldly aid ; but, to
please a friend who came to see me, I
consented to try a bottle of Clements Tonic.
When that was emptied she insisted on me
taking more, and in a fortnight I really felt
the better for it. Something seemed to
whisper that I should persevere with
Clements Tonic, and, helpless and crippled
as I was, a new hope sprang up, because
Clements Tonic was stopping the fits of
vomiting* and I was sleeping well already.
Restlessness at nights bad been one of my
greatest trials, but under Clements Tonic
I could soon sleep peacefully, without
dreams occurring to upset me. Then the
dreadful chest and stomach pains started to
decrease, and my headaches were less
frequent. For a time I could hardly realise
that I was being rescued, but when a good
appetite appeared and my food stayed down
regularly, 1 almost jumped with joy at the
knowledge that I was saved. For twelve
months I had suffered unspeakable torture
and misery, and those who had seen me
tottering on the brink of the grave were
amazed at the wonderful power of Clements
Tonic, which cleared away the pains in my
side and shoulders, and drove the aching
sensations from my limbs, the use of which
I acquired by degrees. To be able to mix
with the outside world after despairing of
ever seeing it again is what I have to thank
Clements Tonic for, and I am sure I would
have been dead long ago only for that medi-
cine. The strengthening effects of Clements
Tonic were shown by the way I could go
about my work, as in a few weeks I was as
brisk and active as ever, and with as much
happiness in life as I enjoyed before being
afflicted with that terrible sense of nervous
depression which nothing but Clements
Tonic could eradicate. The symptoms of
kidneydisease were banished simultaneously
with my liver disorders, and they were all
removed so effectively that for nearly eleven
years I have been blessed with the very best
of health. That is why I advise all my
friends to take Clements Tonic when they
are ill, and nothing pleases me more than
this interview, every word of which you
can publish in any form you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Marias Hickey, of 3 West-street, Paddington,
in the Stite of New South Walei, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I
have carefu’ly read the annexed document, consist-
in c of five folios, and consecutively numbered from
one to five, and that it contains and is a true and
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic; and also contains iny-full permission to pub-
lish in any way my statements which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and
1 make this solemn declaration conscientiously be-
lieving the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
ulua
Subseribed and declared at Paddington, this
twenty fourth day of April, one thousand nine hun-
dred arid two, before me,
OH AS. CAMPBELL, J.P.
Price "s.
Post Fr«s.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Rudd.”
* THE PANAMA HAT CRAZE*
This can be induced at a small expense if you send to
CHARLES GILBERT’S (the leading Panam.
House), Queen-street, BnsDanej
having just returned from the centres of manufacture
f h r the l e t SC ll/6 Ce '22/6' 25^ 8 30/ P ! y 3s/ the to S ng (c O a r sh with
order), securely packed and carriage paid a'ldress
Southern States values simply not in it. A trial
will convince you.
Jjj’OTICE TO MEIiBOTJRNB VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF fo.
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Novel aud Interesting.
Acetylene Gas Buttonhole Lamps
Nickel-plated. Each charge gives power-
ful light for one hour. 1s 6d each,
postage 2d extra. Cheapest House for
Calcium Carbide. £2TSend for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS.,
236 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
and 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
WABASH
Business
Expansion
Systems*
Letter
Filing
Devices*
Card Index Systems*
For ALL
Businesses.
We Systematise your Office Free of Charge.
Write us for Illustrated Catalogue.
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Maeniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate'y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. ~m
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E P PS 'S
GRATEFUI.—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
| DON’T MISS THIS
'■ OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED botanic Remedies win cure you.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
. GORED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free
W. LANGSTON, M R.C.S . Bn*..
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which a,ny lady
can give in tea, coffee or food It does its work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter
looks on, thedrunkard is reclaimed, even against his will
and without his knowledge or co-operation. Send name
and address to THE ETJCfRASY GO., 62 HUNTER, ST
SYDNEY, N.S.W., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free.
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No, io. Address:
1 SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.RCS..ENG.,
Cpn Russell a. Collins Sts.*
Throw away
roar Truoa.
MELBOURNE.
Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites,
CALVERT’S
20 per cent.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soap for toilet purposes.
Most useful to prevent or cure insect bites
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, etc.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Yf
ft
HLLIHG
C y £s
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head-aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDEU’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, See
Of all Stores.
Hidden Secrets of
Disease Revealed
WORDS
' OF
WISDOM
This “ GRAND
BOOK” which is
sent Absolutely
FREE.
“Words of Wisdoir *' a
•wonderful book written
for the sole purpose of re-
vealing to sufferers the
wonderful system of Hom-
oeopathic treatment which
ha* cured so many cases
that were thought to l>e
hopeless and incurable.
The book is written in a
plain and concise manner,
telling you exactly how
and where you can regain
perfect health. In fact, it
gives you the key to the
frandest knowledge known
t reveals wonderful se-
crets and makes the impossibilities of yesterday realities of to-
day. No matter what your disease or how many have termed
it hopeless or incurable, you will indeed find it A MESSAGE
OF HOPE to you, for if you follow its dictates, you will, .as
thousands of others have, be entirely cured of your ailments.
Remember this book costs you absolutely nothing andyou will
prize it highly. Simply sit down, write your name and address,
■end it to the
IRVING HOMOEOPATHIC COY.,
c/r Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
also stating your ailments, and they will send their opinion and
advice as well as this grand book without cost.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
JILKCTftIO
TtnT.TS and
AVP LI.A NGKS
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, arid restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can bs
fell by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
<M.L CHEMISTS
4?
PROr finsens
sflliil
&
FOR
An>EMIA,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
tablet
*AT -3/6 P£R BOX


the HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
Soda Water id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate tne machine in ten minutes.
„ testimonials.
To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
‘‘Dear Sirs,—The machine purchased from you is per-
fection Tin? Stuff turned out is Splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Vi ctuallers.—Geo. Niciiolls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “I have made
thousands OF DOZENS of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.
Mr - W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W ,
says;—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W. A,, says:—“Since getting one of
your Machines, and making our own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says Machine great
success.
Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says :—“ Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
O. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“Value of
Machine indisputable; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland,says :—“Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland,says :—“Great
saying compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
A,GOOD QUALITY of AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE TIIE PROFITS.
Call and see these machines, or write for circular describ-
ng them, also Price List. Prices Reduced.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co-
-407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
—- - - cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enelose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. read,
165 Collins street, Melbourne.
VEGETABLE
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures Acidity Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, <fcc. It
destroys all disease germs, and.absorbingall impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
rpleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,olease see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark *J.L.B., in monogram,’on the wrapper.
MEDICAL GALVANISM.
“ A/TESSRS. HALE AND SON’S FIRM has distinguished
X ’- L itself in the development of ELECTRICAL
SCIENCE as a MEDICAL AGENT. By an entirely NEW
METHOD of application they have succeeded in produc-
ing an ELECTRIC BODY BELT, which for COMFORT,
EFFICACY and GENUINENESS is unquestionably far
superior to any previous invention. Yet the whole appli
anee is so compact that it only weighs a few ounces. In
this age of shams it is something to get an article that
has some power apart from imagination.” —Medical
Monthly.
HALE’S IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELTS have con-
quered the most OBSTINATE cases of NERVOUS and
other DISEASES after all other remedies have FAILED.
OUR SPECIAL ELECTRIC BELT WITH SUSPENSOR
FOR GENTLEMEN HAS NO EQUAL. Catalogue and
Price List gratis. CONSULTATION FREE.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 CASTLEREACH-STREET, SYDNEY.
Rupture
i Dr. Pierce’s Electric Truss
is a Marvel. Nothing like
it. Best Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure for Rupture.
World renowned. 27 improvem’ts.
If ruptured, send a stamp, (any
sort), for new “Booklet No. 1.”
MAGNETIC E. TRUSS CO., 206 Post Street, San
Francisco, U. S. A.; W. H. Sou I & Co. , Agents, Sydney.
Theßoman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladies for preserving their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION.—This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMBB BRINBMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. KILDA
gar All CIiSMISTB SILL It.
WOOL. PRODUCE. CRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
COMMISSION FOR SELLING
WOOL
THREE-QUARTERS (3) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
(I ncluding Receding into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Cata ogmng, etc.) on Wool real-
Silfbe SIXPENCE i Jer lb - the charges
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb. ~. ... :
o m.der° lS reaJishlg per lb. and
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
ALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
E , WHEAT.
Ample accommodation's 1 provfded S Three monthsfi? 611 ’ Krain , for realisation by the Company
raiCZlul, “ 801,1 Wk “
AGENTS I*OR McDOUG ALL'S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
Mel t» ourne.
10, 21, 23 King Street,
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
— (Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
/Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Maohmejoonvunufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos. Motors, Pumps, etc.
/Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD„ Manchester.
,Insulated Cables, Wires, Tanes. eto.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
G M 3-*“a.ntee of the doctor's ability.
AV ° |D unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
for all who
desire it.
Vigor and Strength
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
11 you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subiect of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seek tlie Truth, it costs KTothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDia
■MBKAOm
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
r CCUr the minds of young and old, butabout
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived
SA'nSFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
Awv ?,y, ered r th,s sreat work - }t wi)l be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-spiking made easy ; i s6d n oa t
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d. 1
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d Dosted
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. ’
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted. F
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.) Is 3d cost
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals) 8s 6d
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille Is 3d
Secret History of the Court of England 1 6 post free'
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted’
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history)' Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.’
How TO Bead Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassk’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted '
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho IS
Every Man. llis Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted. ’
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugau-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier anb Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big- Book
Catalogue - post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney-
Too Stout
I was for years; by chanee I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to TOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sulferer
sending’ stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street. Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T)EAR SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
*» l +* Sydney.
£fDWA\EN
JNDIOEjTio/j
GOUT
PILLS
F °R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pkout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. ' Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co. v Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
I
NOTICE
Tosufferersfrom Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy .
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London. > ■
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. od.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health,
Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
RICOR Os
,tSS£^ c£ °y \_\ F £•,
Ihe only Infallible Remedy for WE AKN ESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & C. 0., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Dbaeness
■and Head NoisesT no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
r to the ears, as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible.. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. •
Addmi-A, M. NABT, 145 Colllas St,, Melbeurnt,


We teach in 3 Lessons of 10 minutes
each sufficient for a pupil to write his
own notes, in a month to correspondence
speed, and in three months to Reporting
Speed.
is* NEW SHORTHAND
(REGD.)
2\ Lessons for 2ls. to Completion to end of December only.
Sbb page 35. From January Ist, 1903, the fees will be 21 Lessons for 425.
Payable ss. the first lesson, Is.
next 16, and the remaining four lessonsjree.
The ss. fee may be paid by a Half-a-Crown
at the first and second lessons, then_ls._ a
lesson to follow.
HENNESSTC
THREE STAR
BRANDT
Hennessy’s
Hold
the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth of
Genuine Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
a
T
W£W ILL /y/SS TODAY
Dh'/YeVeR MIND THRT OLD EJflsl,
vvrvf qor rle/vty or
THE
‘PLUM’
f p
THE
‘PLUM’
ipl ENTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring*
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and. having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a 6tL
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a.
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney
1
. ■| r| -i-p-n-rTTTI,t-
-m
~Hti
I*
feflfll]
!()iE s
!ilPn*s
iRHQ
56? tail*
m
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
CHRISTMAS SUITS TO ORDER.
A S a matter of comparison, before ordering CHRISTMAS
SUITS, write to . . .
CHARLES GILBERT, the Leading Tailor,
Queen Street, Brisbane . . .
for Patterns of NEWEST SUITINGS and SELF-MEA-
SUREMENT FORMS, and compare the value of his 50s
SUIT TO MEASURE (carriage paid to any address) with
what you can get in either SYDNEY or MELBOURNE ;
and if you cannot see the advantages he offers, you must
be blind in one eye and deaf in the other.
■S'
“I'll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
9
The Result,
CRAIG &. AITKEN. N.s .W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
mu:
Hotelkeepers, make your own
DERATED WATE
THE “AUSTRAL” CRATED WATER MACHINE occupies
only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTTLES
per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Sodawater,
&c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PER DOZEN. These machines
are now working in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and
South Africa.
Write for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY AND SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
mm:
m
§m
ts
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
2S Years in the Establishment.
A ROYAL LIQUEUR.
PETER F, HEERING, Copenhagen,
CHERRY BRANDY
The King of England; The Royal Danish and Imperial Russian Courts.
SWIFT AND COMPANY, 7 Spring Street, Sydney, Australasian Agents.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture.
WILLS’* “ VTiiE'RFiRAIi” MIXTURE
(Registered.)
Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two grades-Medium and Full.
Price, Is. per 2oz. Tin,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Pest Office, Sydney, (or Transmission as a Newspaper.
Yob. 24. No. 1194.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 3, 1903.
Price 6d
AN ORNITHOLOGICAL ALLEGORY: THE BIRD OF PREY AND THE BIRD OF PRAY.
“The Victorian Presbyterian Assen bly is making another strong effort to have ‘Tattersall’s’ sweeps suppressed.”— NEWS ITEM.
BOOKIE : “IN THE HOLY CAUSH OF RELIGION LET’S SHEND ALL THESE POOR BIRDS TO MOSHES.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
••Australia for the Australian*.”
Printed and Published by Willtam Macleod of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at thei Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Stdnet
New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER . 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• « 2
Half-yearly n 7 f)
Quarterly ... ••• •••
NOTICE.
sen (Una direct to The Bulletin Offle* Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
ezp/ressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the ••Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly con fidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that ice
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Made and While.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
, Le , any picture which has to be re-drawn will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludjate Circus.
South Africa —Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, « Ilout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gioelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.- Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong. --Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China .—Brewer and Co., SI Wanking Road, Shanghai.
TT^^xxlZeZzai.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 3, 1903.
The Comforting False Prophet.
The cry of Brisbane Courier (18/12/’O2): —
One of the most damning indictments ever made on
Australia has recently been published in the leading
financial journal in America, and reproduced in a widely-
circulated London paper, the Daily Mail. “ It is cer-
tain,” says Bradstreet’s, New York, “ that if the British
public are again thoughtless enough to lend the Austra-
lian States whatever money they may ask for, the end
will be something like a composition with creditors
That a population of only 3,750,000 should have to
annually remit interest on some £300,000,000, including
municipal and private indebtedness, to England, is not a
wholesome position of affairs.” A half-truth is more mis-
chievous than a falsehood, but a statement such as that
which has been circulated throughout Great Britain
and the U.S. is likely to be still more damaging
to the reputation of the Commonwealth. The figures
may be approximately correct, but the inference
which is drawn from them is absolutely false. . . .
The indebtedness of Australia maybe explained and justi-
fied in very few words. At the end of last financial year
the total public indebtedness was £221,161,472. Of this
amount £204,952,075 represented State debt, and
£16,209,397 local government debt. The borrowing, how-
ever, has a very different aspect when consideration is
given to the expenditure and to the new wealth which
has been created. Of the total debt, the sum of
£130,743,963 represents expenditure on railways and
tramways, £26,673 956 expenditure on water supply and
sewerage, and £3,741,070 expenditure on telegraphs and
telephones. Thus, a total of £161,158,989 has been spent
on works yielding direct revenue, and the other works
may also be regarded, indirectly at least, as reproductive.
The railways which have been constructed earned for the
year ended June, 1902—the culmination of a period of
unexampled drought—a gross total of £11,243,625, the net
earnings being £3,663,451. Here alone is an asset which, if
properly managed, will, within the next 20 years, more
than cover the total indebtedness of the Commonwealth.
The public debt of Great Britain after the battle of
Waterloo was £885,000,000, with no new assets to set off
as security. The money was expended in the devasta-
tion of war. The public debt of Australia represents the
creation, within the space of two generations, of the
civilisation of the twentieth century over a territory as
large as the United States. Work which elsewhere
stands for the slow growth of many centuries
has here been concentrated into less than one. . . .
Even if we allow the estimate of Bradstreet’s as to
the amount of private indebtedness included in the
£300,000,000, the explanation is equally satisfactory.
Wealth has been created by private as well as public in-
vestments from outside. According to Coghlan, the
private wealth of Australasia has grown from £181,000,000
in 1863 to £1,079,246,000 in 1899. These sums do not
include the value of the unsold lands of the State, or of
public works. Borrowing Australians have also a trifle
of £32,857,058 in the Savings Banks, and if further evi-
dence of their solvency be required they have a collective
interest in 1,788,669,329 acres of land, which have not
been alienated. • To talk of “ composition with credi-
tors ” in presence of substantial facts revealed by these
figures is arrant nonsense, which has not the excuse of
ignorance. There is need for economy, and the expan-
sion of the Commonwealth may be seriously restricted
by class legisla'ion ; but repudiation of our indebtedness,
and fear as to our commercial future, are things which
have never found a place in Australian statesmanship.
• » * *
This is the sort of poisonous slush with which
the “great daily press ” of Australia consistently
undermines this country’s honesty, solvency and
independence of spirit. It is the policy of the
primrose way—the method by which ignorant and
superficial characters find it easier to say that
things are all right than to put them right easier
to take a fresh dose of the old drug than to go
through the horrors of a recovery. It is pitiably
common, this same species of literature —just as
common as going downhill, and just as easy. Yet
it is not in the least likely that the silly preachers
of this gospel of let-it-slide believe in their own
gospel, or that their followers quite believe ; the
violence with which they assure each other of their
complete belief suggests doubt.
» • * *
Of course, it is true that Great Britain, as the
result of war and political bumptiousness, once
owed a public debt of something like £885,000,000
—equal to <£4s a head—and had practically
ho remunerative assets- to show for it. And
the Commonwealth owes, say, £54 per head
of public debt, and has assets worth, perhaps,
£25 or £3O per head on a fair valuation, to show
for it. But these States owe an enormous private
debt as well; Britain was instead a huge creditor of
foreign States. Britain owed the money to itself,
which is one thing ; the Commonwealth owes, it
almost wholly to somebody else, which is quite
another. Britain didn’t require to send away one
penny in payment of interest; the Commonwealth
has to send away over £13,000,000 a year. Great
Britain, when peace was restored, began to pay
off its debt at the rate of fully £3,000,000 a year,
while meeting all its ordinary expenditure out of
revenue, and did this merely by hard, bitter,
courageous self-taxation ; the Commonwealth, in
time of peace, not only adds the cost of its profit-
able and unprofitable public works to its debt,
but adds its deficit as well, and the six States
conjointly show about three years of aggre-
gate deficit out of every four. These are pretty
large differences. It is quite true, also, that
there is as an asset all the unsold land
of the Commonwealth —all the glorious 1788 mil-
lion acres or so, which the Courier alludes to. But
every penny that can be obtained by selling and
letting that land is required, under the present
system, as revenue, and even it doesn’t make ends
meet. The fact that there are 1788 million acres
of land—nearly half of it utter desert—still unsold
doesn’t help the public debt in any way. It
only reminds us that while we are selling the
land and spending the proceeds for the ordinary
purposes of Government, things are very bad, and
when it is all sold things promise to be very much
worse.
• * * »
Also, it is quite true, as the Courier alleges,
that there are nearly £33,000,000 of deposits in the
savings banks of the Commonwealth. Likewise,
it may be added that there are £94,000,000 of de-
posits in other banks, several millions in building
and investment societies, and perhaps £25,000,000
in life assurance offices, which all make a grand
total of something like £155,000,000. But to repre-
sent all these there is only £26,000,000 of cash in
all the Commonwealth, which cash is also wanted
for ordinary business purposes and to pay
£13,000,000 a year interest on our foreign liabili-
ties. And Australia has not great sums owing
to it abroad, as Britain has. In 1888 it was
reckoned that the private wealth of all Australasia
amounted to £1,015,000,000 (in 1891 it was esti-
mated at £1,169,000,000, but as that was a boom
valuation it had, perhaps, better be ignored). In
1901, it was reckoned at £1,084,000,000 —an in-
crease of £69,000,000 in thirteen years, or a decline
of £85,000,000 in ten years. Something like
£30,000,000 worth of land ceased to be State pro-
perty and became private property in the 13 years
from 1881 to 1901; and about £100,000,000 was bor-
rowed, and the population increased materially—
yettheprivate wealth per head was less in 1901 than
in 1888, and the aggregate increase of private
wealth isn’t equal to much more than half the
value of the land transferred from public to
private ownership and the country’s new borrow-
ings. Put in another form, the amount
borrowed in these thirteen years, for which
there are no revenue-yielding assets to show
(practically the amount borrowed for the pur-
pose of keeping the boom going and finding
work for the people), and the value of land
transferred from public to private ownership
in these thirteen years, far more than account for
all the increase of private wealth. And in the
same thirteen years some £200,000,000 worth of
the country’s capital, in the shape of minerals,
has been dug up and dissipated. In a sentence:
£30,000,000 worth of public land transferred to
private hands ; about £30,000,000 borrowed by
the State and applied to non-productive pur-
poses; about £70,000,000 borrowed for produc-
tive purposes —all this to “develope our
splendid natural resources”; about £15,000,000
borrowed privately; £200,000,000 worth of capital
which can’t be replaced, dug up and expended;
and only £69,000,000 more private wealth to show
for it all—while there are nearly 50 per cent,
more people to divide that wealth among. As
for public wealth it has nominally increased, but
the States find it enormously harder to make ends
meet in 1901 than they did in 1888. The public
liabilities have evidently increased much faster
than the public wealth.
• • * •
As an equivalent for the public debt there are
railways, telegraphs, water and sewerage works—
it is all quite true. But they don’t represent
anything like four-fifths of the public debt. They
don’t yield enough to pay anything like the
interest on that four-fifths even while the
Commonwealth is borrowing from £5,000,000 to
£9,000,000 a year, and while Maori!and is going
the same pace, in order to supply the people
with money wherewith to use and pay for
these conveniences ; and how little they will yield
when the influx of loans ceases it is impossible to
say, for the experiment hasn’t yet been tried.
Australasia has certainly produced a wonderful
civilisation in little more than a century—that is
to say, it has railways built out of loans, public
buildings built out of loans, telegraphs, telephones,
wharves, etc., constructed out of loans, roads made
out of loans, and other things of the same sort.
The account may be set forth somewhat in this
fashion:
Dr. Or.
To public and By one Civllisa-
private foreign tion, being
loans .. ..£388,000,000 the whole pri-
To Minerals vate wealth
(mostly gold) of Australasia
dug up and apart from
sold during the land (which
last 50 years, was provided
which is really by Pro v i-
capital expen- dence) ..£672,000,000
ded .. .. 620,000,000 By Railways
and all other
Public Works 258,000,000
By Deficit .. 78,000,000
£1,008,000,000 £1,008,000,000
• * * *
In making this calculation, all the loans used
for repairs, for unproductive works, and for works
that are utterly dead and gone, also those used to
pay deficits, discounts, costs of flotation, etc., are
treated as good assets, and all existing works, how-
ever old and worn and unprofitable, are treated
as still worth their full original value. Even
making allowance for the comparatively few public
works constructed out of revenue, the total value
of existing works is certainly over-rated. And on
the other side of the account appears the value of
minerals raised (and mostly sold) in the last 50
years only. Possibly, it may be claimed that this
debit and credit method of computation isn’t quite
a fair one, but the result is at least interesting.
It goes to show that the secret of the greatness
of these seven States of Australasia has lain
in borrowing and in using up the country’s capital
—a cariital which, once gone, is gone for ever. And
now the six Commonwealth States, at all events,
have fallen on sordid times. Land revenues are
diminishing; deficits are becoming a regular
thing ; taxes are increasing, though not sufficiently
to make ends meet; and borrowing is in-
creasing also. Unless Australasia learns to
manufacture more and import less, so that
it won’t require to borrow to pay for its
imports and to cover its interest bill, that
public insolvency which the American paper sug-
gested must come. No doubt, as the Courier
says, repudiation of our indebtedness “never found
a place in Australian statesmanship,” but many
things happen without ever entering into any
fixed policy of statesmanship. The smash of 1893,
and the long series of deficits, and the policy of
adding the shortages to the permanent debt, were
never really intended, but they came all the same.
Most things come without being intended or pre-
meditated —they just happen in this casual world.
It is a very casual world, but it has certain reason-
ably fixed rules all the same. One is that the
man who is ill and keeps continually growing
worse must die. Another is that the country that
is in debt, and keeps continually getting further
into debt without any corresponding increase in
its wealth, must burst.
No Milner, Thanks!
Joseph Chamberlain cannot be accused of want
of ability. He may lack everything else desirable
in a politican, but that much he certainly
possesses. Any pieces of silver that have come
his way have not gone to a potter’s field, but have
been invested at usurious political interest. Hav-
ing the courage of his misdeeds, he has profited by
them, and has shown his cleverness by the size
of the profit. It was to be expected, then,
that Mr. Chamberlain, on arriving in
S’Africa, would find at once that Lord
Milner would not do as High Commissioner.
Were it only for the fact that Milner was the
tool of the war party in S’Africa, undertaking the
unpleasant duty of forcing the Boers into the
struggle which had been arranged for, his further
rule in that country would be obviously impos-
sible, now that the corpses are being buried and
conciliation is aimed at. But there was another
strong reason why Lord Milner should be got rid
of—his insane recommendation that the Constitu-
tion of Cape Colony should be “suspended” by the
British Government. If this recommendation
had been accepted, it would almost inevit-
ably have forced on another war, and would at
the same time have filled other self-governing
portions of the British dominions with so deep a
distrust of England as to have made their
separation, at the first convenient opportunity,
certain. But it was not; Mr. Chamberlain,
guided by Premier Barton of Australia and
Premier Laurier of Canada, ignored Lord
Milner’s advice, and in doing so practically
dismissed him then. That the formal dismissal
now has been accompanied by all possible circum-
stances of politeness is only natural. But it is a
dismissal all the same.
• • • a
The incident does not concern Australia very
Earticularly, except for the suggestion that has
een made (as witness the “feeler” in last week’s
cablegrams) that room should be found for Lord
Milner and his wounded feelings as Gov.-General
of this Commonwealth. There are cogent reasons
why a prompt and most emphatic veto should be
put upon that proposal by the Australian Govt. In
the first place, Australia does not want Milner,
any more than Queensland wanted Policeman
Blake. When Premier MTlwraith some years
ago straightly informed the Imperial Government
that the appointment as Governor of Queensland
of Blake was distasteful to the people of that
State, he did so because Blake had been carrying
on the Imperial Government’s cruel work of
coercion in Ireland. Milner has been carrying
on even more cruel work in S’Africa. To him
was assigned the task of conferring with Mr.
Kruger “to avoid war,’’knowing that the British
Government had practically resolved on war, and
then of assisting to prosecute an attack which, in
its later stages, found its most numerous victims
in the Boer women and children, and was
a campaign of ravaging desolation rather
than of military movements. Lord Milner,
who, as a German by birth, is possibly a
soldier of fortune at heart, as little regardful of
British views as of Boer views, did his work
mercilessly. He has had his reward, will have
other monetary reward in the future probably;
and in a commercial age it is probable that many
people will not think anything the worse of him
for doing what he was paid to do, well and
thoroughly. But Australia can reasonably expect
quite another sort of man as its Governor-General,
a man whom every citizen can greet without any
sense of repugnance, and at whose banquet-board
no one can see a ghost seated. We do not
argue that Lord Milner is responsible for
anything that verges a hair’s breath from the
strict letter of the law; but he is, in view
of the work that he has just been doing,
an unpleasant person to a very large propor-
tion of the Australian population. The hang-
man, it is generally accepted, does a duty to
society in presiding at the gallows, but no one
wishes to meet him socially. The slaughterer
of animals at the abattoirs is personally often
a most estimable man, but his occupation is a
source of prejudice. The bailiff, as an officer of
the law, carries out most necessary functions; yet
he is held in some sort of dis-esteem. Lord
Milner is, to some extent, in the position of all
these, and therefore he is unsuitable as an Aus-
tralian Governor-General, however admirably he
would serve as ruler of a stolen province in China,
or as an administrator in Egypt.
* * • *
Another reason why Lord Milner is impossible
as Australia’s Governor-General is the reason
which makes him impossible as S’Africa’s High
Commissioner, that he has blundered into an un-
tenable position of antagonism to the self-govern-
ing rights of the colonies and states of the
British dominions. His recommendation that the
British Ministry should arbitrarily set aside the
Constitution of Cape Colony would, if carried out
have had the effect of making as ‘ 1 rotten parch-
ment bonds ” the charters of freedom enjoyed in
Australia and elsewhere. If the Constitution of
Cape Colony could be suspended to suit the con-
venience of a British Cabinet, so could the
Constitution of N.S.W. or of Australia;
and a right which is only held liable
to revocation is no right at all. To send an
enernv of colonial constitutionalism to Australia
would be to deeply offend Australian public senti-
ment, and to suggest a sinister hint as to the
violability of our self-governing rights.
• • • *
This is an aspect of the case which Mr. Barton
should at once represent to the British Govern-
ment. It was at Mr. Barton’s initiative that
Lord Milner’s mad proposal to suspend the Cape
Colony Constitution was rejected. With peculiar
appropriateness, Mr. Barton could now point out
that the mere fact of Lord Milner, as a, Governor,
having made such a recommendation, having
attempted to compass the destruction of a consti-
tution which he was sworn to guard, makes it
impossible that he should be ever welcome in a
self-governing country. There would be, from
the first, necessarily a feeling of antagonism and
distrust towards him, and even if he gave no real
occasion for complaint, that feeling in itself would
be sufficient to make his tenure of office uncom-
fortable for himself and for Australia.
» • * *
It would not be improper if, in addition, Mr.
Barton, confidentially, imparted to the British
Government some idea of the class of man from
which a Governor-General should be picked to be
welcome. Australia wants an amiable, good-
tempered, dignified man, with no very glar-
ing vices and no too-obtrusive virtues, who
neither gets publicly drunk nor refuses to
Eatronise the racecourse; who will be decently
ospitable within the limits of his salary; and
who, most important of all, will not venture to
interfere in the slightest way with the Australian
Government. Such gentlemen should be plenti-
ful enough. There is no call for an administrative
genius—there is nothing to administer ; no neces-
sity for a man of very high rank —we love lords
quite dearly enough as it is. But, if Britain
wishes to hasten the day when there will be no
necessity for her to despatch any Governor-General
to Australia, just let her now send along Lord
Milneb.
Australia’s Population Problem.
The most serious part of Australia’s population
problem is the vast, unnecessary sacrifice of child-
life while, all the time, the country is crying out
for more people. It is really of minor importance
whether the children born are legitimate or ille-
gitimate, provided that they are born and reared
to manhood, though, of course, legitimate births
are by very much the more desirable, as showing
a respect for social morality and as arguing
the general existence of manly and womanly
self-reverence. But the children must be
born, and, having been bom, reared. Some steps
towards securing the first result were taken
recently in most States of Australia by legislation
directed against the sale of certain drugs and the
publication of certain advertisements. The
second result is sought to be served, so far as
N.S.W. is concerned, by two measures recently
introduced to the Legislature, the one by Mr.
B. It. Wish, the other by Dr. Mackellar
M.L.C., both of undoubted utility. The object
of one is to extend and systematise methods
already in force for the rescue of children from
guardians incapable of properly rearing them ; of
the other, to extend the functions of the State as
guardian of illegitimate children. Mr. Wise’s
Bill has been summarised as to its chief features :
The State Children’s Relief Board is made the guardian
of all State children, whether they are boarded-out
under the immediate control of the Board or committed
to an institution. Every child committed by a court be-
comes a State child. Power is given to the Attorney-
General to commit a child instead of filing a bill against
him, and to a Judge to exercise such power instead of
passing sentence.
To overcome in some degree the difficulties which arise
from the present divided responsibility re State children,
the measure provides that all children shall be under the
guardianship of the State Children’s Relief Board, and
gives the Board power, not only to board the children
out, but to place them in any institution if that should
be thought desirable. It is intended that the Board
shall stand in loco parentis to all State children, and
shall so dispose of such children as to it shall seem most
conducive to their moral and material welfare.
A special feature of the Bill is the wide definition of
the term “ neglected child.” This, which has been very
carefully drawn, will, it is believed, bring under the con-
trol of the State every child that is not properly looked
after by its parents, and will give the State power either
to compel the parents to assume their proper parental re-
sponsibility, or, if the child has no parents, and its sur-
roundings are hopelessly demoralising, will allow the
State to take the child into its wardship.
Dr. Mackellar’s measure is designed specially
for the protection of illegitimate children, and,
incidentally of their mothers, constituting the
State Children’s Relief Board the guardian of
such infants, and seeking to make more certain
the legal provisions which exist to force fathers of
illegitimates to contribute to their support. In
its ultimate effect it would probably discourage,
to some extent at least, the actions which lead to
illegitimacy, and would certainly reduce very
largely the mortality among illegitimate children.
* • m *
How appalling that mortality is in N.S.W.
appears from the statistical records of various
State and private institutions. In Sydney Bene-
volent Asylum during the last four years 913
children were born : of these 122 died ; of 508
children admitted from without during the same
period 144 died. At Waitara Foundling Home
during four years, 529 children were received and
376 died ! ! During the past seven vears in the
State 4931 illegitimate children have died ; if they
had died only in the proportion of the deaths of
legitimate children 3168 lives would have been
saved ! Since many legitimate children die also
froin neglect and other preventive causes the
avoidable loss of child life in N.S.W. during each
septennial period is 5000, in Australia probablv
about 15,000.
* • • .
That represents a deplorable and needless loss
of citizens, and much of it may undoubtedly be
prevented by legislation. Measures such as that
proposed by Dr. Mackellar will act so as to put
the illegitimate child under the eye of the State
from the first, and thus, to an extent, prevent it
bemg poisoned with bad food, infected with filth
due to neglect, or left out in a paddock. Laws on
the line of Mr. Wise’s proposals will assist to
protect the illegitimate from cruelty and still
more materially assist to guard the neglected
child when it has emerged from the dangers of
infancy and is beset by the trials of adolescence.
But, after all, the ultimate benefit must come
from a higher tone in the community—a more
careful regard for individual responsibilities and
a higher and clearer ideal of social life
* * ♦ '»
witb tralia ’ with its call for a great population,
™ * h f e opportunities given by its democratic
31 \ th ® f l ee progress of the individual to
of weldth 8 * ® S Uf t 'u many a man of character and
f gh - U naturall y expected to aspire
to amass not pinchbeck titles or hobby-horses or
great estates, but Children-not necessandy hi!


22? children only, but simply young citizens
What a magnificent hobby-not bulldogs orrac*
horaes or stamps or motor-cars, but young Aus-
tralians-even to fifty or a hundred of them
sons and daughters by birth or adoption. Some’-
°f that sentiment, of eager desire for a
brood of tough boys and straight; fair daughters
would be wholesome and natural for Australia
and being wholesome and natural will surely come
m time, when what temporarily thwarts G “r
young nation’s clear purpose is banished, and we
begin to move away from the reproach which fell
SS&SS&C" l0 "' be ““° -w S
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Why Immigrants Don't Come to
Australia.
From a Freetrade paper-the regulation wail:
The time will very soon arrive when Australian M it
ticians will have to take into serious consfderat^n
whole question of immigration. No one will deny that
one of the chief requirements of the CommonweiltMs
population, and the sooner our legislators discover what
class of population is desired, the better will it be fore
country. The fact that Australia, with her magnificent
resources, shows such small capacity for absorbin“n
the most desirable class of immigrants indicates
there is something wrong somewhere. “ Cate that
r*J S q . uit . e that Australia nowadays has very
little luck in the way of attracting immigrants
The following are probably some of the reasons • ‘
Agriculturists don’t care to come to a country, whether
it is Australia, or Sahara, or Gobi, or Atacama
fourths of which they can’t rely on enough water to wagh
with, let alone to grow crops with.
Artisans-such as makers of cottons, woollens, linens
and silks, iron - founders, brass-founders, machinery-
makers and the like—don’t care to come to a country
where there is practically no work for them to do a „d
!"° Sfc 6Veryth,n / th ?y can Produce is imported
, The ,[ e 18 J}° reason why miners should come to a coun-
tr^. w . here the magnificent mineral resources don’t furnish
employment ,or the miners who are here
There is no special reason why anybody should come to
a country which fails so badly to find employment for the
people it already possesses. ‘ ne
There is no great attraction about a country with the
biggest debt in proportion to population on earth The
moment a family of five lands here it is presented wilh »
liability of about £260 as its share of the general burden
r t may not be presented with a job, but it is presented
with its share of the debt sure enough
inducement for English people to travel
16,000 miles to a, country of precarious agriculture and
scanty manufactures-a land where the farmer is wailing
at the Minister s door for seed wheat and the artisan for
pick-and-shovel relief-when he can find in Canada a
country with a reliable rainfall and (though the popula-
tion is only about half as much again as ours) four times
the distance tUre8 ’ a " d CoUntry is onl >' one-quarter
The Freetrade press is fond of talking about
Canada a liberal land policy as an example that
Australia should follow if it is to attract immi-
grants as Canada does—which is pure insanity
Canada is giving away for next to nothing land in
Manitoba, as nearly as possible the exact centre
of the Dominion; and agriculturists come
in swarms, and settle, and grow affluent
Agriculturists can get land just as cheaply
in the centre of Australia, but if they settle
there they only grow demented and penniless, and
are found dead of thirst. The short and simple
reason why this country’s magnificent natural
resources don’t attract immigrants is that there
‘Y® , n 2. ne — onl y some very ordinary resources.
With Canada’s rainfall we might attract agricul-
tural immigrants as it does. With Canada’s 50 to
100 per cent. Protective tariff and its system of
bonuses we might have Canada’s manufactures
and attract manufacturing immigrants as it does.
And with that manufacturing population to buy
our agricultural products we might do much
better than we do with the small area of well-
watered country that we possess, but there is little
inducement to grow more wheat merely to send it
16,000 miles to a glutted market. But the Free-
trade press or the half-hearted Protectionist press
has managed to prevent Australia adopting the
Yankee or Canadian plan of establishing manu-
factures on a large scale, and our own plan has
been a pretty bad failure. Only a fool would ask
why immigrants don’t come to Australia—a
country which, instead of having work to offer,
over and above what its own people can do, has
a larger proportion of its scanty existing popula-
tion supported by means of loans and Government
works than is the case in any other land on earth.
♦—
The Federal Idea.
There is call for an Australian public man
whose devotion to the Federal idea has sur-
vived the corrosive criticisms of the parochial
daily press, to devote a portion of the Par-
liamentary recess to a platform championship,
in the chief Australian capitals, of Federation. It
is not the Barton Government, nor the Reid
Opposition, nor any party in the Federal Parlia-
ment that calls for fid vocacy but Federation itself—
the Federal idea, which is daily being attacked
with all the crooked wisdom of cunning and
malignant parochialists—politicians and pressmen.
The political situation in Australia at present
is this : The existence of a Federal Government
causes some discontent, because of the occa-
sional faults and follies of its administration, and
causes yet graver discontent because of its many
virtues and acts of courageous principle. And all
the discontents are ascribed by mendacious poli-
ticians with “axes to grind,” and still more
mendacious newspapers with the same selfish
motives, to Federation. To curse Federation is a
game that pays in every Australian capital,
because in every capital there are people to whom
Federation has given a grievance—newspaper
proprietors deprived of the subsidy to their
enormous dividends contributed by the general
taxpayer; importers whose “little mistakes”
cannot now be settled over a quiet whisky with
an affable and complaisant Minister, but have to
be examined in the full glare of daylight before a
police magistrate ; peddling State politicians
whose importance has been diminished by the
creation of a supreme Australian Parliament; in
short, all the meb to whom Federation has meant
a money loss or a prestige loss. And this mob,
whilst small in numbers, is vast in “influence”;
when it does not include the “ great daily news-
papers ” it controls them; _ and a big daily
newspaper, if its heart is in the work, can
mislead a very big section of the public,
given a fair length of time. That is what
is happening now. The Federal idea is being so
persistently and malignantly attacked that there
is being created in each State a large and growing
anti-Federal party. This party, of course, cannot
hope to succeed in securing disunion. It may
applaud the madmen who talk “secession,” but
will never follow them. But it can succeed
in retarding the legitimate development of
the Federal idea, at present voiced imper-
fectly in the Constitution. There is a call, then,
for effort on the other side ; and as no daily
newspaper exists which will make the effort, the
only nope is in the platform. There would not be
that expedient (a paper can talk to
a constituency which no platform speaker may
reach) but for the fact that this anti-Federal
tion is so inherently absurd and ridiculous, is so
obviousiy sprung from the Father of all Lies, that
even a small effort will probably serve to cover it
ahortlvT ed I * f THE BULLETIN hop® 3 to hear
F«^[irli°^ a plat . form oampaign m favor of the
federal idea—not necessarily under the patron-
nSit. 10 ° r pnvate * of ‘he Babton Govem-
♦
The Land of Revolution*.
The South American situation condensed
arbitrator President Roosevelt hesitates to act as
Tha Vmi, i Venezuela and the European powers.
realisl thlt th an «P° B,t is difficult * and th * Yankees
iur~™ at the Monroe Doctrine is two-edged Remove
woufd c R e O rL P n?v trine a a ? d Great Britain Cci Germany
ouia certainly end the present unpleasantness hv
There are ceK“ftkto i l
whilfh ” ofc far from the border of British Guiana
mediation th ® s^ ren^th of Magistrate M‘Turk’s recoin-’
menaanon, Chamberlain, some time ago claimed
missfon tlB si,a f n rrit r y ;, T he U - S - Arbitration iom
Guiana l alm - , but awarded British
uuiana territory in another place. The inclusion
would 1 is , t r itoT * “! ?»o»C oi as:
She th« map nicely, and do a lot to
®° otbe British irritation. Germany has lone been
° l M be - °? k out for a foothold in South America and
would just as soon steal part of Venezuela as any other
of TWU Ca n State except the Rio Grande du Sul province
the H^i 1 • eFe are al .ready German settles But
the Monroe doctrine stands in the way, and the European
asarhftrs o^o6^^ 1 ar6 urK ' n £ President Roosevelt to act
bl more v b6 i aUB t the Venezuelans would probably
blunMv thlr ° bey hIS award ‘” Which means,
and UalWwMnh European powers, Britain, Germany,
wiU 100k y to ( Thi, it q aV t 6 a 5 0t bl^er fleets t ha n the U.S.)
Yli‘ ? 0k to the U.S. to enforce its award. The course of
toe , Irn P erla hsm has not run smoothly in Cuba and
thLJ all the Yankees have got out of
talitv in°th Ven p>. r u ? baving been an enormous mor-
hatred from fhe P K n6B ’ en ° rmOUB expenses, rank
natred from the Cubans, and sundry new insects
South Americans do not love the Yankees. They are
are^ahhl hng to shout for the Monroe doctrine tilUhey
Yankee anrt°F take “I® of themselves, and tell both
Yankee and European to go to perdition. The indepen-
dent portion of the continent consists of 7,486,156 P sq
miles, with a population of 37 millions, more or lew’
divided among ten nations whose total foreign public
debt amounts to only £211,000,000 in round figures. P This
m„ch° h T a ate u rcd and P roliflc continent is not very
rSnani«^ th rc No ( rtb e and^ t the Population is most*
of Spanish descent intermixed with Indian. In Argen-
hnlt 18 a ?? ns,derab le Spanish element, but the
bulk of the working mass is Italian, and the business
InZZ a p arg6ly BritiBh - Brazil’ is Peopled with
Portuguese, negroes, and half-castes. In the
a ° Grand ?., du S u Province are thousands of
German settlers who have all passed through
anli« #’ and are - believed in Germany to be
anxious for annexation to the Fatherland. The
continent is m a similar state to that of England
under the Heptarchy, and at present Chile and Argentina
are anxious to play the part of the Kingdom of Wessex on
a larger scale. The Chilians are far and away the most
energetic of the South Americans; their record is
splendid ; but, like Holland, they have neither the terri-
fcory nor the population. Chile lacks mass, consists of a
v"? stn P ° f barren, half-desert country between the
Andes and the ocean, and, all told, is only 279,9005 q. miles
in area. Its population is just over 2* millions. Argen-
M « reat „ nva '. has unbounded possibilities
before it. It is mostly a fertile country, well watered, and
i'iiq B L<2, f ltB ., and ,’ 8 f ood for raising stock. It
°{ and ’ of which the third-rate is
better than the Chilian best. Already ithas 4,794,000 popu-
lh,??; a fK d lmm 'P at »on is proceeding rapidly. That cable,
that in the event of the U.S. declining to interfere in the
Venezuelan embroglio Argentina aspires to plav a pre-
ponderating part, indicates that the Argentines begin to
reckon their hour is at hand. Of course, Brazil is by far
hot V?™™ d « moBt P°P u,ated Bt »te of the continent. It
has 14,000,000 of people scattered over 3,218,000 sq. miles
of country. But the Brazilian is a tired individual who
will not count for much in the final struggle for
supremacy Chile is always nibbling at the Bolivian terri-
*orX* i? n .* ron^er * n kh° se parts is as buoyant
as that of British Guian*, and like it, floats only in one
direction. Sooner or later the Chilians will make a
desperate effort to absorb Bolivia’s 734,390 sq. miles
which will give them access to the fertile lands of the
upper waters of the Amazon and perhaps, in the sweet
by and bye, lead to the eating up of sundry Brazilian
back blocks. The apparent future of South America is a
wild-cat struggle between Chile and Argentina for
supremacy, and then a unification or federation of the
whom continent. Uncle Sam, being a business man
doesn t care to mix himself up in a row in which he is not
curses. t 0 *** anything bufc hard knocks and Spanish
♦
Under Which Flag ?
The Right Hon. Premier Barton, G.C.M.G.,
&c., has prepared a problem for himself. A little
over a year ago the idea struck him that he would
have an Australian-flag competition, and this was
carried out with the assistance of a £lOO prize, a
great flare of trumpets, much societv crush, and
the patronage and presence of the'Countess of
Hopetoun, whom the Prime Minister piloted
around the show with his most loyal smile. The flag
was finally selected and sent to London for the ap-
proval of the local King. There the affair would
have been decently buried and no questions asked
had not Mr. Crouch, M.H.R. for Corio, been con-
stantly putting questions to Ministers as to where
that flag was, why it was not produced, and
whether Edward VII. had made it into a hand-
kerchief. Thus prodded on, Mr. Barton got the
flag approved by the King, and no doubt wished
to Heaven the thing was buried for ever. Alas,
no, there is no rest for the Jingo Imperialist, and
Mr. Crouch has now been asking why that flag is
not flying, and whether it will take the place of
the Imperial flag on the forts and ships and
public buildings of the Commonwealth. To which
the official answer is that Mr. Barton has not yet
fixed up the regulations for its use. But here
the awful possibilities of the affair arise.
If the regulations issue will the Australian
flag or the Imperial one fly on the Auxiliary
Squadron ? Will the flag of the country that pays
for the squadron, or the flag of the country that
controls the fleet fly on the ships ? If this country
is stupid enough to pay the Imperial naval subsidy
any longer, the flag question will become acute.
The haughty Imperial officah person would refuse
to sail under a common colonial flag, except, of
course, on pay day. And what will happen on
that part of the squadron which will be used for
an Australian training ship? Will it carry the
Australian or the Imperial flag, or both ? The
position is quite interesting, and The Buluetin
sympathises with Mr. Barton in his awkward
quandary and thinks it is very thoughtless of
Mr. Crouch to raise so inconvenient a question.
It used to be “One life, one flag, one fleet, one
throne.” Now numbers two and three have gone,
and as for number four, well, we must hope for
the best.
4 .
The Commercial Aspect of Tuberculosis.
Heavy Robert Reid, the Victorian “ Com-
mercial ” Minister, the ideal “business man,”
whose alleged soul is grieved over the fact that his
two departments —Health and Education—are
cases of all sowing and no reaping, lately told a
deputation that interviewed him about accommo-
dation for consumptives and incipient con-
sumptives that “while they were squaring the
finances other matters of grave importance would
have to wait.” If this incompetent Minister had
the most embryonic ideas of political economy—if
hia mental horizon embraced the smallest idea
beyond “ trade, ” he would know that the health
an “ ef | uca^on a people are really the most
profitable undertakings any Minister could
manage. Passing the general theory and ooming
down to the.one detail—of consumptives—put by
the deputation, here are a few of the striking
figures thrown at the brilliant Reid. In Victoria
alone, between 1800 and L9OO persons die annually
of tubercular disease. There are now between
5000 and 6000 such sufferers in that State alone,
and of these about one-third are curable, while of
the thousands now being infected and coming on
for next year and the years after all, are curable —
because preventible. For these 2000 consumptives
now icurable in Victoria private charity (and a
small State subsidy) provides accommodation, at
Macedon and Echuca, for just 50 ! Of the ad-
vanced and mostly hopeless cases the Austin Hos-
pital takes 42 and the Melbourne ditto 150. The
Victorian Government (and this argument applies
to all six States) spends thousands annually in
keeping smallpox at a distance; it (and the
other Governments) have spilt coin wholesale in
past years to stop the plague getting a foothold
here, yet consumption causes more suffering and
death, than small-pox, plague, scarlet-fever, diph-
theria, and, measles combined ! And, for Robert
Reid’s edification, it also causes more pecuniary
loss. The deaths of 1900 Victorians annually—
mostly those in the prime of life—mean a huge
cash loss in earning power alone. It is a reckless
throwing away of taxpayers—while Shiels is
moaning like a lost soul about his deficit. And
Robert Reid has the soulless stupidity to
refer to the Health Department as one
where all goes out and nothing comes in.
Whose fault is that ? Putting aside the humani-
tarian side of the question as one that wouldn’t
appeal to such a typical Business Man—though
doctors know, and see, and think, and swear at
the callous indifference of successive Governments
any land whose population is increasing as
slowly as that of Australia, in neglecting its child
life and its adult life, is simply inviting annihila-
tion. For the White Plague is just as com-
municable as its Black brother, and those 1900
consumptives who die annually in Victorian
homes infect many thousands of others before
they are finally laid to rest. Writer has
frequently forced before him a case where one
daughter in a family died of consumption. A
year later the father followed, two jrears later the
mother. A brother and sister still live, and every
time the writer sees them he counts so many steps
nearer the grave. These two are on a piece of
land near Melbourne. They are still possibly cur-
able, but they cannot get away. And every doctor
knows dozens of such coses. The expenditure of a
few thousands now in the construction of cottage-
homes for consumptives in the Gippsland moun-
tains would, in a few years, bring in to the State—
though nob to Robert Reid’s department—a
hundred times the money so spent.
Indeterminate Sentences.
“ Titus Salt ” writes
A great deal is said nowadays about the alleged fact
that the ablest criminologists are almost solidly in favor
of indeterminate sentences. An offender, it is held,
should not be shut up in rule-of-thumb fashion for a fixed
period, but detained, under certain very uncertain but
highly scientific conditions, until he shows signs of being
fit to be trusted at large as a useful, self-respecting
citizen. It is a noble idea when looked at in a large
general way, but the old trouble about details will in-
trude itself. When the system is generally adopted you
can’t have a really expert criminologist attaohed to every
gaol; there aren’t enough really expert criminologists.
Yet the system requires close personal supervision and
study of character; a mere visiting expert is of little
account. The system, too, is less easy than it looks. The
forger wouldn’t forge in prison (unless he forged a cell),
and the embezzler wouldn’t embezzle (unless he stole a
wall), and to that extent they would be reformed charac-
ters, and the expert might, by looking hard at the con-
finee’s eye or ear, or by listening to his conversation,
decide whether his reformation was permanent and re-
liable or not. An immense amount would depend, of
course, on whether the expert was himself reliable. In
practice it would probably be found that the prisoner
who was related to an influential politician would reform
so rapidly that he could be safely let out in three months,
whereas under the old order of things he would do seven
years. As to the man of no influence, he would possibly
attract so little attention that he might reform
for a dozen years before his improvement caught
the official eye, when in the old rule-of-
thumb way he would have only served 18 months.
(This is assuming that the sentences were really indeter-
minate. At Elmora, New York, I fancy sentences are
indeterminate at one end only—that is, the offender
can’t be kept in for longer than the usual sentence, but
may be let out much sooner. That isn’t a case in point;
if the system is going to be applied to all kinds and ages of
offenders the sentence must beindeterminateat both ends.)
To begin at the beginning the Minister (perhaps John
Kidd or Tommy Bent) appoints the criminologist—prob-
ably an ex-policeman or small solicitor from his own con-
stituency. There is only one Lombroso, and he can't be
everywhere. Then the newly-appointed reformer pro-
ceeds to find out that the prisoners with influence, or
those of his own political color, or sect, or country, have
undergone so vast a moral and mental improvement that
they can be released immediately. But a virulent Green
or Orange prisoner might spend all his life in bracing up
and rehabilitating before a virulent Orange or Green peno-
logical expert would observe that he could be safely set at
liberty. If the alleged penologist wasn’t biassed
in any way, but only incapable, the best hypo-
crite would get out first. For the man who is
convicted by mistake things are bad enough now;
still he serves his sentence and leaves. What show
he would have when his release depended on convincing
the possibly incapable persons in authority that he had
recovered from the criminal tendencies he never possessed,
and had abjured the evil courses to which he was never
addicted, and the alternative of not doing so might be
something approaching life imprisonment, I don’t know.
Are there three men in Australia, and, if so, who are
they, to whom the community could entrust the tremen-
dous power of controlling the indeterminate-sentence
system—of secretly trying men in their own minds with-
out judge, jury, witnesses, or appeal, and sentencing
them to further years of imprisonment as not being yet
fitted to £o free? There must be some person or
persons with that power under the indeterminate-
sentence system a power compared to which
that of the visiting justice is as nothing.
The indeterminate sentence idea is said to be a success in
six American States, but it is comparatively new yet, and
even if it is a success judged by the men, or some of the
men, who have been set free, that isn’t sufficient. Pos-
sibly, when there is a dreadful scandal and a dreadful
overhaul some day, and the men who weren’t set free
are dug out, and the reasons why they weren’t set
free are investigated, the matter may be viewed differ-
ently. If I were in gaol, and a very rich man had a desire
to keep me there because he wanted my best girl, or
because I had taken his, or for any other motive, I would
want to be quite sure that the able and brilliant penolo-
gists in charge of the show were above suspicion. If it
was Lombroso himself—well, even Lombroso might have
his price. Apropos, when the Bastille was taken,weren’t
there found in it six demented old men working out
indeterminate sentences? v
«
The “pledge” to be required of Federal Labor
candidates is a good deal more elastic than the one
the N.S.W. Parliamentary party works under.
The latter provides that the members shall vote
solid on questions “involving the fate of a
Government ” ; and that, though a bit loose, has
been the business end of the whip with which the
party has done most of its arguing. A Govern-
ment really doesn’t worry muon how often a party
goes solid against it on the non-essentials of its
policy (on matters, that is, which don’t “involve
its fate ”) ; but when a party goes solid on essen-
K hingsthat , do “involve its fate”) the
?h a A^{ eC °T S , awkward for an -V Government
w ‘ a ? abe . olute majority in the House. The
ParW,«nrfA hiP u W f impossible in the Federal
f a J* a ™ e " fc ’ r hough ’ for fcbls rea son ; the motion
he fate of i a Government there is most
on thn AM somehow on the fiscal question, and
on that the Federal Labontes know it is no use
trying to agree. The Labor M.P. in the N.S.W.
FrcWa? 6 ? 1 l* \£ abor i te and nothing else; the
more T >^ or . M * i> - » a Laborite Ind a bit
fAi!; d i t i chan i ces a re, therefore, that the
S.;A ' Labo ! L pa o y Wlll nofc be able to round up
Ministries as the State party has done, although
wiiThA dl A S BIS J n ™ bich it is most interested g it
will be quite as effective.
'
terribffiivwit T emp^y - ed is growing lond and
tern ole m Westralia, and m a very few weeks nr
days 1200 more men will be thrown out by the
completion of the Goldfields water scheme—the
water has already reached Coolgardie— to add to
the trouble. And then there will indeed be cold
tIT W a AUR Q? ba unless new industries arise.
non Ste 7 l ? tafce as abs orbed something like
75,000 people from the East dunng the last ten
years, and has borrowed about £13,000,000 to find
r° rk h for them No W the West can’t find work
for the people it has got already, and the West is
ST er t 0 tr / and borrow money from the
East at per cent., and the East, which has been
in a bad way even while it was sending its surplus
population westward, i. jtil] i» „ bad * ay , JPg
own lOU is a drug in the land. Meanwhile the
r Ol rMo°A^w e «il b bee P s on importing and paying
°r£42,000,000 worth of goods annually, much of
which her own unemployed could manufacture-if
they only had the chance.
Dr Roseet’s condemmition, expressed in a force-
;?!J ett ® r ln S.M. Herald (20/12/’O2), should pierce
rough even the crusted self-complacency of
Sydney s University authorities. The Doctor, as
iw SO m ° f University,” endorses in sorrow all
that The Bulletin, as a profane outsider, has
ever said m Unger. The ineptitude, the narrow-
ness the dogmatism, the academic aloofness, the
wea.k-kneed worship of convention that are Sydney
University s principal intellectual products, are
ail by implication rebuked in his letter, while he
complains of its utter failure to affect the currents
f Py act i c al life. It is to the numbing influence
of the University that is due the uniform soulless-
ness and fibrelessness of the N.S.W. educated
classes. It turns out politicians like Barton, and
like PRiNG-of mere scholastic attainment.
JN.S. YV. boasts only one University man in politics
who is at all a living force in them, and he owes
is training, not to Sydney, but to “conservative”
Oxford When Gov. Beauchamp (who, with all
i 1 represented the independence of
thought which Oxford, with all its failings still
sustains) went during his term here, to Sydney
University Union, and addressed it on the
evil influences of the Respectable Press, the
blasphemy of his utterances (he talked quite
nicely of. The Bulletin, while disagreeing* with
Its politics) so horrified his hearers that not
only the point of the address but the very
fact of its delivery has been scrupulously
suppressed _ ever since. It had no effect
on the pious youth of the Union. Their
shocked propriety merely suggested the ex-
treme need of taking care that such dreadful
utterances should not leak out. The last heresy-
hunt of the Senate, which had for its object in
effect, to ascertain whether Prof. Wood’s views
on the S’African struggle were in accord with
those of the Sydney Morning Herald, was
another manifestation of the ’Varsity’s develop-
ment, and was well in keeping with the general
trend of the present Senate’s traditions. The five
years limit to the term of Senatorship, suggested
by Dr. Roseby, is a step in the right direction *
but is only a step. There is little hope for the
future destinies of the University in the guidance
of the electro-plated mental automata that the
present system turns out as graduates each year.
»
The Vic. Full Court decision in Chapman v. Vic
Deep Lead Co. is the best bit of ground the Vic’
miner has struck for a few years. It fixed the
rule that, when a man is killed or battered in a
mine, the owner must pay up if he cannot show
that neither he nor his servants were negligent
Parliament in the ’97 Mines Act said this quite
plainly enough for any intelligent layman to
understand it; but it was so big a change that an
attempt was made to see if it couldn’t possibly be
made to mean something else, and Judges
Madden, Williams and Hood said it couldn’t
The Miners’ Accident Relief Fund had put the
N.S.W. miner ahead of the Victorian ; this deci-
sion more or less evens things up. The position is
about as follows:
(1) The Vic. owner has to prove that he and the
manager were not negligent. Even that much, when
affirmed in the N.S.W. Mining Regulations, was declared
by several Judgesto be not only ultra vires, but absurd
xt'o Hr fa u r - . The resu,t has been that the battered miner in
N.S.W., having to prove the owner’s negligence before he
could get compensation, has been beaten before the start •
and so he learned by experience not to start at all. If he
was very much battered his friends bought him a barrel-
organ and his wife a mangle. The Mines Inspection Act
leaves it at that. There is, therefore, verv little risk in
maiming or killing a miner in N.S.W. Of course no
sane mine owner wants to do either ; but a whole lot of
them, alleged to be sane, want to save necessary ex-
penses ; and, in the long run, that amounts to about the
same thing as maiming or killing.
(2) The Vic. owner has to prove that the injured man’s
fellow-employees were not negligent either. This is more
than the N.S.W. miner even asked for-it didn't Teem
worth while asking for that much when judges told him
that it was absurd and unfair to ask for a much smaller
thing. In some cases it is, no doubt, rough on the owner to
be required to prove that his employees were not negligent •
but it is a good deal rougher, as a rule, for the miner’s
widow to be required to prove anything at all. And if in
some cases it is rough to make the owner pay money for
his employee’s negligence, it is still rougher to make
another employee pay blood. It is rougher because, for
one thing, the employer can choose his employees, while
the employee cannot choose his fellow-employees.
(3) But while, so far, the Vic. miner has, under this
decision, all the best of it, he has nothing to correspond
with the N.S.W. Miners’ Accident Relief Fund The
N.S.W. mirier or his widow gets a trifle after every acci-
dent. The Vic. miner doesn’t get anything at all after
some accidents ; but, in those cases in which the owner
cannot disprove negligence, the Vic. miner now has a fair
chance of getting- a substantial lump sum. The Vic.
miner draws many blanks and a few prizes; the N.S.W.
miner doesn t draw any blanks, but he draws only small
prizes, and pays 4|d. a week for them.
Either way, though, the miner’s position is a street
ahead of what it was when, down to a year or two
ago, he drew blanks all the time.
*
So Australia is to be visited by a “special envoy”
of the Navy League “ to impress upon subjects of
the King beyond the seas the paramount im-
portance of sea-power to their security, and the
need for co-operation in well-conceived' measures
of common naval defence.” Baid envoy may be
vexed when he finds that no one out here, unless
he wants a bauble of some kind, thinks much of
any “King beyond the seas,” or anyone else, for
that matter, unless there’s money to be made out
of him. As to “sea-power,” we can find all that
is worth knowing in Mahan’s books, and as


THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD I
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
NET FUNDS, January 1, 1902, £71,975,776.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place Sydney.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM ~>LE MING,
24 CLARENCE BTREET, SYDNEY.
for the “ well-conßidered measures of common
naval defence,” there is not a naval officer
alive who knows what they are. The other
day the cable reported a French officer
as saying that if submarine boats were per-
fected the only safe place for battleships would be
insieft an enclosed harbor. Who can say that sub-
marines won’t be perfected in a month ? In any
case, it is an open question, depending on circum-
stances, whether any set of measures would be
well or ill-conceived. True, the best defence is to
find the other fellow and beat him ; but if you
can’t find him, and he gets behind you, what
then? When Napoleon went to Egypt Nelson
hunted for him all over the Mediterranean, and
lost him. When the French slipped out of
Toulon, Nelson chased them across the Atlantic
and back again, and only caught them at Cadiz.
Had he failed England would have been invaded.
That was a chance to miss. War, either by land
or sea, is made up of chances like that. It is little
but a gamble, and to call it anything else shows
total ignorance of history.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ Breaking of the Drought.”
Royal “ The Thirty Thieves.”
Criterion , -... “Cinderella.”
Tivoli „, Rickards’ Co.
Palace “Dorothy.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
f “A Pantomime Rehearsal” and
Princess’s “A Country Mouse.”
Her Majesty’s “ Dick Whittington.”
Theatre Royal “ The Power and the Glory.
Opera House Rickard’s Vaudeville Co.
New Olympia / Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
(Princes’ Bridge) \ (last nights(
♦
The “Thirty Thieves” is now filling
Sydney Royal with vague reminiscences of the
original “ Forty Thieves,” together with regretful
memories of the noblemen who “ went wrong ” in
the good old “ Pirates of Penzance.”. The Thirty
are all gentlemen who have been ruined by Wild
Cat, and they take violent means (in evening
dress and belltoppers) to recover their own
again. If they can’t get their own, they take
somebody else’s. But instead of putting their
plunder safely on fixed deposit in the City of
Melbourne Bank, they stow it in a secret chamber
in the house of their leader, the Baronet; and as
Appy, the woodman, and his son Sonny have
found a back entrance to the secret chamber, and
take the gold away as fast as it is shovelled in, the
Thirty are not really making much progress.
It is suggestive of the heart-breaking story
of how Jones got over the fence at midnight
into Smith’s yard to steal Smith’s wood ; and
Brown got over the fence into Jones’s yard at the
same time ; and Jones for three consecutive hours
threw Smith's wood into his yard ; where Brown
received it and passed it over the next fence into
his yard ; wherefore, when Jones climbed back
dead beat into his own yard to enjoy Smith’s
wood, it wasn’t there. The “ Thieves ” is a mildly
pleasant thing in its way, but it will never set any
substance on fire unless the substance is naturally
combustible, and even then a little kerosene would
help. There are some pleasant ditties in it—
pleasant, ordinary riitties which anyone would bo
glad to meet, though nobody would care much if
he didn’t meet them. Also there are some very
poor ditties. The music suggests many things that
have been heard before—most of them agreeable
things that it is pleasing to meet again, but which
one would just as soon meet anywhere else.
The scenery is beautiful and the irrele-
vant porcelain procession is beautiful, and a
good deal of variety business of a medium
character pads out the second act, which is thin ;
while the first act, which isn’t thick, gets on as
best it can. The author has few ideas, and those
he has are not astonishing, but he disguises the
thinness of the material pretty well (though with
a great struggle) considering how thin the material
is. Still the play that doesn’t need to struggle so
much hgs its advantages.
• • • *
The company presents few very weak
points, and no very strong ones. Edward Lauri
has some of the poorest topical verses this writer
remembers, still he is a good comedian, and casts
himself into the breach manfully. He is in violent
motion almost all the time, and Lauri in violent
motion is an inspiriting spectacle. Miss Josephine
Stanton makes a bright little Mariana, and
Miss May Beatty makes a bright little
Rhoda, though her singing voice wasn’t at its
best on Saturday. The Thieves are mostly pre-
sentable men who wear the belltopper of a feloni-
ous calling gracefully, and their chief (J. O. Pid-
dock) does them credit in a general way. Pro-
bably Henry Hallam’s Mayor is about the best of
the male characters, and Foster Courtenay, as
Appy, the miserable - looking wood-cutter, is
blessed with the best song. But no part stands
out very conspicuously. A dead-level feeling per-
vades the show, and when a level is very dead it
should be .buried.
* # * *
The Royal Comic Opera Co. had a hearty
welcome back to Sydney on Boxing Night. In
spite of weather conditions which made it a great
feat of endurance to remain inside a crowded
building, every seat, and most of the standing-
room, in the Palace Theatre was filled, and the
reception given to the singers was most enthusias-
tic. In view of the remarkably poor standard of
modern comic opera—generally second-rate music-
hall trash with no story and very little music
—it is good policy to revive some of the
old favorites. “ Dorothy,” by the side of
recent “great London successes,” shows as
a really brilliant gem ; and intrinsically it
is of good enough quality, with a pretty pastoral
story and bright music. Whilst the present
revival of it will not exactly efface memories of
earlier presentations, in the days of Henry Bracy
and Charles Ryley, it was a notably good per-
formance—a little weak only as regards the tenor
and baritone.
♦ * *
Miss Florence Young, in the title part,
proves her recent great advance both as an actress
and singer ; her voice is still hard, but it is strong
and clear, and in the “ Tally-ho ” chorus showed
so well on first night that the item had to be
repeated, and still the audience wanted
more. Miss Maud Chetwynd acts and sings
daintily as Phyllis, and Miss Cecilia Ghiloni
plays Lydia handsomely. The new tenor, Regi-
nald Roberts, is reminiscent somewhat of Taplev ;
acting and singing brightly for the most part, he
fails in the high passages sometimes. Harold
Thorley rendered a public benefaction on the
opening night by making the interpolated song
“Queen of my Heart” absolutely colorless and
flat. There is no reason at all why an opera
which is coherent and decent throughout should
be spoiled by the absurdity of a guest, singing at
the bedroom door of his host’s daughter—whom
he has met that evening for the first time—an in-
vitation to dispense with wedding-ceremonies. The
serenade is obviously dragged in by its hair; it is
contrary to the whole spirit of the piece, and
never would be missed. Otherwise Mr. Thorley
did very well. Naturally George Lauri made
prime fun of the part of Lurcher, and Pat
Bathurst took Howard Vernon’s old character of
Squire Bantam with success. "Dorothy” will
be continued during the coming week ; revivals of
other old favorites and one new opera are
promised later on.
* * * #
“ The Breaking of the Drought ” was
chosen by Bland Holt to liven things up at
Christmas-tide, and to paint a halo of romance
round the fact that milk is dearer than it used to
be, and often comes from a dubious cow at that.
The Lyceum show deals greatly with dry Aus-
tralian grass and dead cattle, some of which, especi-
ally a property horse in different shades of brown,
are burnt publicly in a bush fire. The troubles
of the drama are caused partly by the drought
and partly by the usual forging brother. The
mother and daughter thereupon repair to Woolloo-
mooloo lodgings, where the old lady makes a living
by sewing sacks while she wipes her eyes with an
elegant cambric handkerchief. Sack-sewing is
the sort of industry in which a woman with the
strength of an elephant may make a bare living
by some 12 or 14 hours hard graft a day, so that
theold lady would do bettertosell the handkerchief
and live on the proceeds—at least till she stopped
crying, for no one can weep and sew sacks at the
same time. Later on, she is raised in the social
scale by getting a coffee-stall in Paddy’s Markets,
which is represented without a Chinaman in it.
There she is addressed as an ancient Hebe by her
son, who had previously stated that he would hide
his shame in the bush, but hid it instead with
Harrie Ireland. There is a tableau when the forg-
ing son finds his parent in the cup-of -coffee business,
but he returns to the paths of sin all the same. So
Miss Ross, as the hard-working sister, makes
believe that she intends to become a Flossie
herself, and sings a giddy song, whereupon the
brother, with much indignation, remarks that the
honor of the family is now lost. After which in-
cident, and several other things, a considerable
amount of peace is restored, and the Drought is
found to be off. The programme has bits of poetry
interspersed with other announcements, so that
the Cavills, who give a swimming exhibition
in Act 111., look as if they were meant for
“ white-winged birds that skim the smiling sea.”
Apart from that, however, they are (a good
feature of the show.
• ■ • •
Bland Holt, as Walter Flour, known as
“ Damper,” supplies a good sketch of the rouse-
about in a humorous vein, while Miss Ross, as the
heroine, Baker, and various other people are good,
and if the drama was better they would be better
too. The most noteworthy fact about the caste,
however, is that Mrs. Bland is not in it, and even
the burning property-horse and other excitements
don’t atone for the omission.
* * # #
“ Cinderella,” at Sydney Criterion, is a
good move on Sheridan’s part, being a light,
frisky pantomime, though, owing to heat and
Christmas pudding, the audience had to be rebuked
once in its early stages for not understanding
one of John’s jokes. Miss Celia Mavis is very
much the kind of Cinderella we have seen
so often, and John, as a Baron owning the lordly
estate of Pinchgut and the castle erected
thereon, acts his part with his customary
brightness. The Baron has three daughters,
one masculine and two feminine, the masculine
lady, who displays much bony neck, being an
amusing sketch in the hands of Sydney Carden.
The Baron’s better, or rather bitter, half also
belongs to the sterner sex, and some boy rats
escort Cinderella into scene 6. Miss Minnie
Hooper, as Prince Charming, and various other
persons called Mephystrion, Behemis, Zapolis,
and other unusual front names are all that a
panto, could expect them to be. The fact that
Sheridan is liberal with his ballets is a softening
circumstance. Towards the end the policeman
and the perambulator come to the front, and the
animated cheese creates humor of a primitive
type.
* * * *
Fisk Jubilee Singers are appearing at
Sydney Centenary Hall. Their music, with its
alternations of sadness and gladness, has a great
fascination for the serious-minded public, which
looks at M‘Adoo and his company, and thinks
of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” and murmurs, “Dear,
dear, the poor things were so ill-treated by
Simon Legree,” and wonders which of the co. it
was dined at the White House with President
Roosevelt. All of the hymns, coon songs and
ballads were encored, and the lady baritone caused
much marvelling and remarks to the effect
that if the Almighty hadn’t made the singer
quite white, He had most generously gifted her
otherwise. A young lady with a high clear soprano
and the dreamy, blue-grass name of DazaliaUnder-
wood was recalled three times for her singing of
“ The Cows are in the Clover.” Mr. M‘Adoo, who
can make his bass like a purring dynamo, gave
his “Asleep in the Deep ” deeper than the cable
lies. There are some handsome young women
among the Fiskers. One would pass anywhere
fora French or Italian girl, and one has abso-
lutely the finest poise of head and carriage of
shoulders that this authority has ever seen.
* * * *
As The Bulletin was going to press (a
day earlier than usual this week) Miss Grace
Emmett and Co. from America were announced
to be making a first appearance at Sydney Tivoli,
and to be comedians of very high merit. J. W.
Winton, Spry and Monte, and the Harvey Boys,
with many others, can be spoken of with more
certainty as appearing, and as amusing. To meet
the holiday competition and the hot weather con-
ditions, the Tivoli has just now a very strong pro-
gramme.
* * * *
Somebody wants to know when we are
going to have a Williamsonian revival of “ Under
the Red Robe” and “The Prisoner of Zenda”?
Chances are that manager J.C.W. has not
1 seriously thought of ever reviving the romantic
dramas aforesaid. In “Prisoner of Zenda he
introduced the Julius Knight-Ada Ferrar Co.
Australia, and the play was a very mild s ™;? es ®-
The ladies of this continent had not, at that time,
got struck on Julius’s brawny Roman figure, tfuc,
even after his memorable legs had made their
mark in the “Sign of the Cross ” there wasn t much
of a rush to see Julius in a brief revival or
“Zenda.” As for “Red Robe” it attracted less
attention than “The King’s Musketeer, ’ another
romantic play which has not been revived by
J.C.W.
The final verse of the above is by way of saying
that “The Power and the Glory” at Melbourne
Royal would be an endurable theme for ridicule if
its “humorous relief” were blotted out. The
plot is a mirthful thing in the murderous passages
of the drama, and the scenery calls for praise.
Even the dreary child can be treated as a joke at
this annual period of Christian discipline, and so
forth. But the two men who ramble around the
lunacy with boards on their heads, and the lady
who has been the widow of a coffee-stall for 15
years, these are afflictions of the sorest character.
The first time “ The Power and the Glory ” came
to hand the present scribe must have slumbered
or fled when the comic reliefs were happening,
but on Wednesday last he bore the full brunt of
the revival, and he now directs the attention of
the police to those two men with boards on their
heads.
* * * m
The newest item at the Opera House is
G. W. Hunter, a “comedian raconteur” who
raconteured under the Rickards management
someyears ago, and has lately returned to Australia
with a fresh —or mostly fresh —assortment of
raconts. The Rickards entertainment is much
brighter than when Hunter cracked his wheeze in
the dingy old original Opera House, nevertheless
business is not so bright as of yore. The Montrose
acrobats are among the best in the world, the
Harbecks give a pretty little show that doesn’t
resemble any other people’s show, and Brownlow
sings three songs very fetchingly. But a spoiled
public underrate the quality of the “turns”
offered to them nowadays.
* * * *
Fitzgeralds’ Circus is closing p, long season
in Melbourne this week, or early next week.
Meanwhile Dick Turpin nightly dodges around
the arena—sometimes in sight of the audience,
and sometimes otherwise—on the pretence that
he is galloping Black Bess off her legs. And the
mare assists this harmless fraud by dropping dead
at the same spot every night. Little bits of
scenery—tables, turnpike gates, &c.—introduced
into “Dick Turpin” are a touching reminder of
the Chinese plays which occurred m Melbourne
last year, but the “mounting” of the primitive
Chow drama was chiefly remarkable for the con-
duct of the stage-manager, who wore a disreput-
able hat and smoked a clay pipe when he came to
change the “ props.” Now the stage-manager at
the circus wears blue-braided pants and a beauti-
ful parting to his hair, and nis presence lends
dignity to the fr aillusion.
* * * *
On Boxing Night the “ Combination Pan-
tomime ” drew a crowd, which filled every
perch in Her Majesty’s. Local journalism in-
sinuates that the subject of “ Whittington and his
Cat” is a “draw” in itself at present, owing to
the joy of Melbourne citizens in Sir Gillott’s new
Lord Mayorship. But his lordship may be wiped
off the slate as a factor in the panto.’s initial
popularity. Williamson and Musgrove, in con-
junction, got credit for knowing how (if anyone
does) to serve up a Christmas show in the latest
and largest way possible at the price. Anticipa-
tions were not realised. Dresses and scenery
were disappointing. There is nothing in
the current attraction half as gorgeous as
Cinderella’s wedding-feast or Aladdin’s porce-
lain-procession, staged _ by Musgrove when
he wasn’t combining with anybody. As for
the things that are said and done, the panto, is
open to much improvement, and will doubtless be
improved a little. It can hardly avoid it. On
first night Maud Thornton was Dick Whittington,
instead of Rose Hamilton—on the sick list. Maud]
of the shapely limbs, is not calculated to carry a
tired audience by storm, but Henrietta Byron,
this year’s principal girl, is one of the go-bang,
wake-’em-up sort of girls, so an unduly gentle
Dick made little difference. Alice is given to
white socks, boisterous bare legs, and a powerful
Amurrikan accent. Edward Lewis, newly im-
ported, plays a broad-comedy she-male after the
old London manner of many comedians, living and
dead—a manner that nearly exhausted all its pos-
sibilities in the performance of, say, Harry Shine.
Godfrey Elkington, a plump reimnmoenoe ol
“ The Runaway Girl,” who is understood to b«
casting in his lot with professionals is an inoffen-
sive Emperor of Morocco. Maud Harrington
sings prettily. Bovis Brothers and th e Perraans
and Barney Fagan, are largely concerned m the
disordered mystery, and the “ little Dartos, a pair
of lusty, red-headed infants, gave an imitation of
the Ferrari “whirlwind” dancing, which is very
clever for its age. But, then, the adult Ferrans
were equally clever for their age, and the top parts
of them didn’t glow like camp fires. The phan-
tom guards” were disappointing on first night.
Their batteries did not light up simultaneously,
which injured the mystic effect. A gorgeous fan-
ballet suffered in popularity from the lateness of
its appearance on the programme, _ and the
audience mostly came away with an impression
that Her Majesty’s is not the best of theatres for
panto, spectacles and illusions. The stage is too
close to the audience in general.
*m * #
The double-barrelled Xmas bill at Melb.
Princesses makes a bright reminder of the long
ago when Brough and Boucicault sometimes
supplemented a drawing-room comedy with a
musical burlesque. * I A Country Mouse, by
Arthur Law, is a frankly wicked little narrative
in three acts. All the principal characters, except
the wily innocent who takes the name-part, have
moved in the very best divorce-court circles before
the curtain rises, and the “Mouse” girl’s arrival
gives sundry noble lords a new object in life with-
out changing the color of their moral code. Two
other females are a married lady who wishes to
elope with the Honorable Archie on account of
her husband’s solemn, uncongenial respectability,
and an amiable spinster who pretends to be
married in order that she may be loved by a Lord
Bob, the affections of Bob being sacred to other
fellows’ wives. Meanwhile, a small, antique
bachelor duke competes with Archie for the
smiles of the new girl from the country. The
duke gets a bad start in this sprint race, but just
when the brilliant Archie looks like an odds-on-
chance the damsel secures a tete-a-tete with the
duke on a roof-top, and they climb down a chimney
together, and when they reappear in a smeared
condition it transpires that they are an engaged
couple. The story concludes abruptly at this
foint, but anyone may guess that the duke made
is proposal in a weak moment as a result of
being temporarily wedged in the chimney with
artless Angela’s fresh young arm around his leg.
The dialogue is full of good lines and sinful sug-
gestions. It might have been written by Pinero
in a holiday mood, and spiced by W. S. Gilbert.
The scene between Lord Bob and his spinster,
who affects to be married, is quite in the satirical
style of Gilbert’s comedy “ Engaged.” And the
stage fixings are excellent.
** * *
Musgrove’s comedy co. the “ Nell
Gwynne ” co.—scores a fair, all-round success in
“A Country Mouse.” Miss Sadler, as the wife
who suspects her unlawful adorer of going astray
elsewhere, puts ginger into her jealousy. Sydney
Stirling plays briskly, and Miss Farleigh is more
at home than usual. Alfred Tapping is a weak,
though not incompetent, duke; Albert Grau
serves for a pillar of respectability in a temple of
pleasant sin; Harcourt Beatty, as Honorable
Archie, wants only a little more frisk and smart-
ness ; and Nellie Stewart is a beauteous Country
Mouse. The fair-haired girl that she presents is
plainly acting at being unsophisticated. A circle
of expert dissemblers couldn’t possibly believe in
her. But slie figures in the centre of the circle,
and the comedy seems to gain more effect than it
loses by the humorous unnaturalness of her
method.
* * * *
“ A Pantomime Rehearsal,” which follows
the comedy, is identical in design with the re-
hearsal of “Lady Godiva,” which Bland Holt
conducts in the second act of “ White Heather.”
This rehearsal is a more elaborated burlesque of
amateur theatricalism. Beatty conducts the
trouble, and Miss Nellie Stewart is the star
amateur ; also, Sydney Stirling and Miss Sadler
help considerably to keep things going, and some-
body raises a hearty, human laugh by stating that
the amateur limelight apparatus has gone off with
a bang and hurt him very much. Nothing is
funnier in life than an explosion which nearly
kills an amateur actor.
** * *
The “Federal International Exhibition,”
which pottered along unnoticed at Melbourne
Exhibition Building for a few weeks, has changed
its management and put on a spurt. The exhibi-
tors are now running the show as a co-operative
spec, and have taken over the lease of the building
and grounds (up to Jan. 31) from the original pro-
moters. Ashby, sec. of the A.N.A. fetes, is
acting as manager, and given fine weather, the
Exhibition threatens to pay expenses and achieve
a profit in its latter days.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal the Dampiers have
opened in “The Bush King,” which presents
some astonishing (and previously unsuspected)
features of Australian life. A record cool
December has been to the great advantage of all
indoor shows. The Tivoli does immense business
with Cinquevalli, his mournful attendant being
also a great public favorite. Fred Bluett and
Callaway supply the comie-singing element, which
was entirely dropped during the Sandow season.
In the old Exhibition grounds, the Fitzgeralds,
under canvas, are continuing their usual Christmas
circus success.
Sing the mad and mawkish story
Of “ The Power and the Glory; ’
Blow the drum and clash the cornet,
Also bang the saucepan-lid,
Whilst a weeping villain chases
Lurid Lizzie into places
Where his scheming gets frustrated
By her everlasting kid.
Lurid Liz. was early parted
From a husband, chicken-hearted ;
So she corpses in a chapel
On a stony coffin-lid,
Till the villain in dejection
Comes and collars the collection;
Then she works a resurrection
In connection with the kid.
But the child (who’s more than seven),
Says a prayer, and goes to Heaven,
And behind a tricky rain-cloud
Near the monument, is hid,
On this monument stands mother
(“Just because there is no other”),
And the villain starts to kill her
When he’s haunted by the kid !
So the scene is shifted later
To the flies of a theaytre,
And a certain Countess Morris,
Who is probably a Yid,
Bestows a haughty blessing
On the suit her son is pressing,
And the villain falls a victim
To the father of the kid.
Then the monumental mother
Leads a wicked woman’s brother
To the altar, to reward him
For the daring deeds he did,
And some comic interluders,
Being merciless intruders,
Are converted into pinions
For the little angel kid.
The Wild Cat Column.
Queensland s new income tax calls on every
citizen whose income does not exceed £lOO to pay
• Tbe man whose income is between
£lOO and £l5O is to pay £1 a year. If his income is over
£l5O he is to pay £1 on the £l5O, and 6d. oris, in the £ on
the surplus, according to whether it is derived from per-
sonal exertion or from property. Money spent up to !26a
jear on the support of indigent relatives, and up to £5O a
lf - e assura nce premiums or payments to friendly
societies, is exempt; but all the same the tax is a very
doTn P n?fn one ' *5 < ? oes^’ t strike the rich as income taxes
Where th 7J 0 eS ’ but there are verv few countries
where the poor are so comprehensively swept in And
wen th » t« is likely to keep ‘ the wolf from
the h°?H f r F a fe T ears on, y- in every State
sale d .d’ evenue tends to diminish through the
sale of the most fertile portion of the public
estate, and the unproductive debt—the debt interest on
which has to be met by taxation-keeps increasing and
per7nhabitant S i?° re ta ? e ® are r ® quired ' Direct taxation
per inhabitant is now twice what it was 20 years am
Twenty years hence, if the public liabilities keep on
whltTt is g now Pr6Sent rat6> ifc will P robab, y twice
**« 9 ■
rM^h 6 r6St s 6 if B g^ost Montgomerie’s Brewery Co
(Melbourne) has now surely taken its last wilt
Victorian Courts have decided thattwodmectors are
profits midThv £4o >°?°’. a refund of secret
mad , e . by them out of the flotation of the co
and 14 years interest therein. If that £4O 000 had arrived
, " < ~ B * has wandered about the law courts for two
years before coming to a settlement. f 1


TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
STOCKS in SYDNEY and MELBOUBNE include—Steel Bails, Bridge Bails,
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. |N D E NTS. —LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Bailway Material.
CENTRAL MINING 4. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Huntbr St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPL/STRIER, Manager,
Bepresenting Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
.. p*eks £ ’
iOTSMST 1 ">“■;? Vm o',
SSot',ne"'. J “‘ toln *‘‘“""‘' C.bl» «dC:“»S?
* * * ,
h A* Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street. Melbourne
having’returned from his visit; tn . r ’ ourne >
sajs!; ■ ”*<«
S;:"™ “=■ liS
* *
■ 9°“ plain ?f of Stagnation in the engineering
of Refrigerating noTafthe
jTOidsSs:
the coming summer season. The prices for all
sizes have been greatly reduced, and purchasers nrl
purchasing Th?s fi and h** V 16 8? Refri S e rators before
P . . ahis firm has also introduced up-to-dare
-S l° r ma , nufa . c turing bolts and nuts, rivets doe-
spikes and every discnption of ironwork.* S
y ,? u r^ anfc fco borrow money, go to NS W
Eustace Bennett, Manager.* 74
* * * * „
The best investment in Australia is buying land
at Esperance, Western Australia, the natural port of the
Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway, Esperance will
our buBiest Ports, as the trade with the
goldfields will pass through it. A permanent survey is
now being made. The railway is a certainty. Get in
eariy and make a fortune by purchasing a few blocks
before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O block ; terms,
d 1 Writ ® for plans and Particulars to The
Perth Swanston-street, Melbourne.*
<^ )ncentrator is Probably the most
P p ?{. mining machinery ever introduced
* t ' vas first brought out as a novelty, and in 1903
r.,,?5 arded aS an necessity in the plant of every
mine requiring to concentrate its ores. Over 5000 of the
machines have been sold, and upwards of 600 mhfes have
it in use all over the world, while in the Commonwealth
mine U s Btra Thi a t b ° Ve machines are now working on 120
mines. Thirty million tons of ore are beinir treated
to by n be a i >ove tables ; probably more tlfan equal
to the combined ore tonnage of all other makes of
concentrators. The Wilfley is the only concentrating
43? tam UBe at the Great Anaconda Copper Mines where
can be obSdVn K SS
JSSfeJ 1 " i “ t “‘ °*“ n ,
* * * ■
The Insurance News, London, writes of the
“ Therol^nia^M'l e A iT ran u e Societ >'’ B latest report
The Colonial Mutual has had a year of progress and
s P uc°cLTYhow a r di U t' tB ? B T y ,eature P t mZs for
preceding year.’* Ct adVanCe ° n those for the
* * * •
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
£4Q4 P Qi n n ’• a " d a r !? r ? e atuount of their reserves of
prompt settlrnems * the SUteS ' Lowest ratea a “ d
* * * •
al , C J“ ide - Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
aP * llnin f and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus Micro-
Sow?,.V “n r cTi M* , S', r ?b‘" requl,i “ s
* * * t
Significant extract from De Beers’ Diamond
monthswhen 0 H ° f the annUal "? eetin & at Kimberley last
month (when it was announced that profits for the 12
months were over £2,000,000): “ Owing to the excessive
Sf “ d p e f } ’ of food Fiven the Kaffirs by the mili-
Tp "i » • labol ' was most difficult to obtain.’’ “ Plent y
of food is good. The obvious deduction is that the
diamond monopolists, who are receiving a 40 per cent
P 0 .nd n s eaC A h /f ear> d ° not = ive in their com-
pounds. As for wages, it is known the blacks e-et the
very smallest pittance from the diamond-kin>js. S
INSIST ON GETTING
mu
Sun
1 . ' '-jip
I ic ed A\ang o,
, GHEENMANGO.CASHMERE
- . * MADRAS*- , •
itocerf a rid e?e.
es
Famous for over a Century.. t .
Supplied to Royalty for over 63 years.
moderate^foTothal^yeaf on *
Profits Dividends and to Re .
May, 1895 £3990' 5 per 'cent BerVe 3' ® erves -
Nov., 1895 4136 5 P cent. =£4ooo ~ £24,096
May, 1896 4299 6 ” ’* “2? 24,224
Nov., 1896 3534 5 ” ** 3991 808 24,532
May, 1897 4018 6 ” ” f 99 } ~ 24,076
Nov., 1897 4127 6 ” *’ 22 24,097
May, 1898 4128 5 ” ’* 3991 138 24,233
Nov., 1898 4516 5 ” ” SS, 1 J 37 24,370
May, 1899 4460 5 ” ” 3991 626 24,895
Nov., 1899 4577 k >• « 3991 469 25,364
May, 1900 5528 k ” ” 686 25,950
„ rt ” •• 8991 1637 27,487
Nov., 1900 5462 j 5 . >■ .» 8991 \
May 1901 *-" ntten off „ 2000/ ~ 26,958
Nov’ 1901 f?3Q c Per Cent -= 3991 1061 28,019
May, 1902 U 72 B ” ” 3991 1148 29! 167
Nov., 3902 4479 6 ” ”g} Jg
S .ni.l inor,S ? S"?' " * ™>f
»a*s£~» o i£
«„I‘aS- 6 K & y&“£S3ffi SSS
stock, the U lT 01 ? *nn°* Taspanian fnscribed
entr P en chmenT iBe filT* eB ° tab,i “» Becond flnlndal
£22 500 and , r T, COnB, 2 t of reserve fun <*
ana £7036 undivided profit. The Buliftin
f P rrJH y f r ® commend B that £7500 of the latter be t™
ferred to the permanent reserve, making it £3O 000 Th„
large floating balance has a slipshod appearance somehow
• • • ,
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assitr.
ance Co. (formerly of Brisbane, but now with its head
»“.i n AS;t ey, lM!r d „^ r r“ k * b, * “rf
sc Au ßO s t, 1902. Its balance-sheet reached this
Sin Ih * £
T«t.. es h“ Ad r
1896 I C^ me ' 01a ™ 9 ' Dividends, goings. Funds.
1898 " £ 6’w? ” £ yfi 3 ” £2,764 • £2 > 887 • L 663
1808 .. 6,393 .. 751 4 400 cl*, ,
1899 .. 7,252 .. 992 5102 ” i'mi "
1901 .. 11,023.. 1483 .. 6s} \\ ” S
Taken
from
1902 .. 12,657 .. 3775 .. 13,633 .. 17,408 .. “l
, Total accumulated funds £4 em
Office property written up (1898) £lO 095 * fc4 ’ 093
.. ~ again written up (1901) 5^500
15,695
£2O 288
» 1, written down (1902) 5’ 60 0
Alleged present amount of Assurance Fund .. £14,788
These figures reveal a truly remarkable state of
affairs. In 1900 the Australian Metropolitan Life Assur-
ance Co. had accumulated £6455. It would have accu
undated a good deal more but for the manner hi which
the shareholders voted themselves 10 per cent dividends
without waiting for the actuarial investigation to show
-‘ e h - ■ ! ere , WaS i" y real surplus out of which to pay
thl liah l?Hes dS ‘ , Then ,.^ e investigation revealed that
the habihtms under policies were £10.324. This looked
than Rn? U in e ° f t u in f S C like a shortage of no less
than £3869. But the co. had bought a building in Bris-
bane for something like £13,905, and by putting ft
d f iw [ l , m the balance-sheet as worth £24,000! it
a, P a .P er at . l ea st, £10,095 or thereabouts of
DaDer £l6 j Whl ? h “ a # de j* 6 assurance fund, on
»n P „u’ £1 . 6 - 550 ' and instead of a deficit of £3869 there was
an alieged surplus of £6226. There is no law in Australia,
fnmn M Thel ? ullct 'n is aware, to prevent an assuranoe
company putting any value it likes on its building.
The paper value of the office property in-
creased again (from £24,000 to £24,500), but this £5OO
pffecfprfk Represented the cost of improvements
effected--at least there was no ostensible writing up this
time. But in 1901 another £5500 was put on to the paper
value of that Brisbane building, raising it to £30,000 : so in
an offhand way theco. apparently then put it down in its
balance-sheet at something more than twice the original
jj. rhl , s year, for a change, it writes off the £5600 it
added on last year ; and it says, in its report, that it does
this though the said building “ stood in our books last
year (when it stood at £30,000, just after the second
writing up) at a sum below its original cost." It mav
have stood below its cost to the original owners, but it
certainly stood a very great deal above its cost to the
present proprietors unless past balance-sheets are
utterly incomprehensible.
For the year just closed the increase in the
income is less than it was in 1898, 1900, or 1901, but the
increase in expenses is so enormous that they have more
than doubled in one act, and exceed the whole income.
This is the expense rate :
Expenses and Dividends compared with Total Income.
1897 £6O 13 2 per cent. 1900 £63 4 5 per cent.
1898 69 3 9 „ 1901 59 8 7 ~
1899 70 7 0 „ 1902 107 14 3 „
Possibly the results of this huge expenditure may show
themselves next year, but for the present the situation
looks most remarkable—the total amount spent in ex-
penses has more than doubled; and the increase in
income is smaller, with an expense rate of over 107 per
cent., than it was last year with an expense rate of a
little over 59 per cent. Nearly two years’ accumulations
have disappeared inside 12 months. And out of the
£4693, which is all the co. has actually saved in seven
years to meet its liabilities, £2OB is represented by loans
on personal security and £876 by “ Deferred Instalments
of Annual Premiums " —an item which certainly can't be
described as a visible asset. The best feature in the case
is that the Board has decided to pay no dividend this
year. It would have been well if it had been suspended
earner.
* * j •
The Fourth Victoria Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne) shows a further substantial improve-
ment for the year which closed on 31st October, 1902.
This concern was one of the few in its line which met all
liabilities right through the years of depression and
reconstruction. In 1894 it made a fresh start by writing
off the existing reserves (£7821) and £28,114 of capital,
and since then its progress has been continuous. During
the year just closed it bought up the assets of the Planet
Building Society—a concern which might have saved
itself from obliteration with a little more grit and perse-
verance. The record of the Fourth Victoria Permanent
Building Society since 1894 reads as follows:
Added Total
Profits. Dividends. Written to Re- Re-
. off. serves, serves.
1895.. £2,711 Nil £2711 £2,711
1896.. 3,521 2 p.c. =£1917 1604 4,315
1897.. 2,912 2,, „ 1969 £943 4,316
1898.. 3,353 2 „ ~ 2024 1329 4,315
1899.. 4,214 2„ „ 2022 2192 4,315
1900.. 5,586 3,, „ 3036 1550 1000 5,315
1901.. 6,865 4,, ~ 3864 3001 8,316
1902.. 11,402 5,, „ 4578 6824 15,140
Apparently £2056 of the above profit was realised n„r nt
l h H e n TT take " over ,rom the WanetTo and is heW as
tion^ po f ible losses in realisa
the Planet assets. Another sum of £1666 is nrnfif-
SKI n°, ld °? lon * terms - and aTthe buyers rS gh
Reserve Fund
ii against Planet Society’s Assets 2'055
Undivide'dProflt ° Perty B ° ld °“ terms - - l’«»
p„„ „ . , £15,140
“I® aUowing for the fact that part of the smaller re-
able* 9 The Viet Writ p en off > the P ro K r eas is remark-
•V Z : Ane fourth Victoria Permanent Building Societv.
shouldTn^r 6 " 118 co ," tent ke «P the dividends low,
able ““ f yea i®> have a ver y solid reserve, and be
capital commence the gradual restoration of the lost
eaua?v^B'” : T Thi ? k the inv estments are about
Yon al hL K 0 d ' V, po ' nt of bonuses the A.M.P. is ahead
with a ti y been t comparing the bonus it gives
years. y Wtb tbe one tbe other office gives every three
onovrs Adelaide crowd is asking the local
!^ am co B to extend its option to the end of next
March (present option expires 31st Dec.), to enable it
to get its wind and arrange for the payment of the hio-
sum which was to be handed overattEdofheyear
u ° considering how certain interests are miled
up the Snow people will get all they ask for but-some
the same° P The* We^" are f ve ™K in their shoes all
tne same. The Westinghouse directors are not so soft as
make 3 ou d t'. Cate the Adelaide dai] y P reaa wished to
tb Jco iuT 1 Life Assurance and Guaran-
w.b,cb do . es no new life business nowadays but
erel y waits for its last policyholder to die, faded awav
more rapidly than usual last year y
Outgoings.
, «.
Income. Claims, Ex- 16% Divi- Total
S.. £2 | s B "ff
£loo ° written off company’s assets f 61,106
lm " 350 619 1600 52,629
.. 2871 2643 519 1500 fio Qtit
1902 2610 7399 785 15001 60,938
£482 written off company’s assets f 43,382
is a good or* w‘ aide Life Assurance and Guarantee Co.
IS a. good or bad concern for the policy-holders it ppr
tainly makes the shareholders an amazingly good return'
And, in addition to the regular 15 per cent, they are
them V fn S tbe ,T e sh< ? uld be a ver y handsome sum for
them to divide when the last policy-holder dies off or
Dare1 n f erB ' T !“ 8 is how the life assurance fund com-
nnH JS rec ® nt y ears with the total amount insured
under the co.’s remaining life policies : a
Total amount
insured under Life Assurance
iono exiting policies. Fund. Surplus
1898 .. £33,700 _ £36,971 M £3 271
- *2,000 . 36,930 J 4 930
1900 ... 31,900 M 37.711 aan
1901 .. 28,200 „ 35 841 "" 7’fi4i
1902 .. 17,350 .. 29,007 “ I^7
The total funds consist of paid-up capital, £lO 000 • life
“n U ds a £4 e ono Und> f 29 ’H 007 i B uara ntee P a nd’ contingency
’i £4 °?° • and undivided profit, £375. Supposing all
the policy-holders had died simultaneously in 1898 and
r^ PPoBlnf E hatall the assets realised book value, the
shareholders would have received back their full capital
7 « the guarantee and contingency funds, and
*3271 out of the assurance fund—in all about £1 17s. 3d
for each £1 of capital. If all the policy-holders died to-
day, assuming the assets to be worth full book value the
shareholders would get back about £2 12s. for each £1 of
f ap ‘ tab . Altogether the shareholders appear to have a
good thing on hand.
• * » *
Timber Co. (Melbourne), which
irin^K®^ 10 ’ 0 . 00 ° f its ca P ital as lost in 1898, shows up
since that disastrous event as follows: F
Profits. Dividends. Written
1898 - - Nil ™ £142*827
1899 " 2iP-C. =£14,625 _ \ggS
ion? “ A " ” 17,550 £ l3 - 000 155,014
SI " *8,174 4 „ „ 23,400 55,000 185,240
1902 .. 32,546 4 „ ~ 23,400 176^094
A certain amount of progress is now being made but
even saying nothing of the £210,000 of lost capital there
is still a terrible amount of lee-way to make The
situation may be summed up somewhat as follows :
Accumulated Depreciation (Kauri forests
destroyed and not replaced) .. .. £264 920
Less. "" ’
Insurance Funds ... .. £56,978
Log Reserve Fund _. _. 8,163
Undivided Profit ... ... 23,685 88,826
Net Deficit £176,094
The paid-up capital, after writing off £210,000 as above-
mentioned, is £585,000. How long the co. will last
depends, of course, on how long its kauri forests hang
out, and the value of them is so mixed up with the value
of mills, buildings, vessels, gear, &c., that it is impossible
to say how much the co. reckons it has left. When the
forests give out a great deal of the gear, buildings, mills
and sundries will, probably, be of little value. All these
things taken into account, the prospects of the Kauri
Timber Co. look none too bright.
* » * *
Heavy rains at Cobar and Drysdale have put
most of the mines into activity, but, save Fort Bourke
and Great Cobar, there is not a mine on the field with
anything like sufficient water storage for such country
Fort Bourke, with an excavation of 120,000yds. has now
over 20,000,000ga1. on hand ; next best outside is Mt.
Boppy. 84,000yds. excavation, filled to 14,000,000ga1.
probably as much more went looking for another storage
which wasn’t there.
• • • *
Six inches of rain at Tibooburra (N.S.W.) gave
renewed life to the specking industry, and men, women
and children again roamed flats and hills for the ‘ ‘ specks ”
that glitter everywhere after such washings. A 630 z.
nugget was picked up within a mile of town on 15th Dec
—the largest haul made locally for years.
* * • *
Some New England (N.S.W.) items Monte
Christo (Bingara) offered for sale by auction, but there
was no bid. The London folk have made a present of it
to their late representative. He has put men on to get
out the diamonds left by Capt. Rogers, and if they are
there in a small decimal proportion of the old man’s
idea, the new owner will soon be a Croesus.
Wilberforce Dredging Co. let the working of its plant
on contract. Co. pays the contractor £3O per ton for all
tin raised. Result, a dividend after about 600 hours
running. This establishes a record for tin dredging in
the State. Co.’s total expenses are £2 weekly.
Inverell Diamond Fields Co. Ltd. (London) : The Conti-
nental shareholders are going to throw £30,000 more into
this venture. They have more pluck than judgment.
About £70,000 has already been spent to demonstrate the
worthlessness of the property.
• • • *
Speculation in mining is not altogether dead in
N.S.W., if it be true, as reported, that the Conrad
Consolidated Mines Co. (Ltd.) has been floated privately
?nI wT tk BitUate ? at Bo ™ Creek - in Inverell duS
(N S. W.). The reports issued with the prospectus are
certainly very attractive, but they would indeed need to
be extra satisfactory to warrant such a flotation The rn
££ooff’°°2 f - So.IXX) fully-paidT vendors
20,000 offered to the public at ss. on application and ss’
25 OQO°h n iH nt ’ the balance ( los -)to be paid in two months'-
£WOo5 eB ei r e?'- u °l the pro . ceeds vendors are
*-10,000 clear, all charges incidental to the
b ® triflin S } are t 0 be P aid of the
otheri.tO.,ooo so that, practically, vendors possess 4-sths
of the original issue. They have “ such faith in the
co. s prospects that they have agreed to lock up 45 000 of
their shares for 12 months.” This is an ait ofcon-
descension which signifies nothing, as there would have
to be an extremely lively market to absorb their 35 000
shares which are free from the obligation. Altogether the
deal is an excellent one from vendors’ point of view. It has
understood that the complexity of Conrad ore
presented serious difficulties in treatment; but
<<w , re treats this question very lightly •
it. practical metallurgical tests, and
be6n d f t f, rmined tha t at reasonable cost the ore
can be successfully treated.” It is promised that within
° ntl l a smelte , rs Wlll be in toll work, and “it is con-
dently anticipated that with the ore in sight the co will
aftir a P° sltlon to declare a dividend within four months
thi e n^i he v, C °^i Pl t tlon of the sm elting works, and from
thence should become a regular div.-paying concern
the necessity of further capital.” The
reports are studiously silent as to the capacity
k* * -P b ? smelters to be erected, and their costT
but it is admitted that they will be “expensive.” It
seems inevitable that the reserve shares will have to be
issued before the div. stage is reached. The promise is
* b ?P i hm «r elght months this consummation will be
achieved Writer would like to have a wager on the
point. No one can doubt that the Conrad mines con-
b^‘nroveri erl f d h d r 0^ e h fc h in metallic values, but it has to
be proved that the practical metallurgical tests ”on
a small scale can be applied on a large scale wj??
anything like the profit anticipated. After carefully
Wnn g f the repor p? and . estimates one marvels why the
fortunate owners deem it necessary to have the outside
ft iH T? t 0 the extent of one flTth 6
If.sny, £36,000is required to complete the equipment
there is no real need to seek it from the public*- one’
reputed shareholder could sign a cheque with an
Q^ rao t dded a " d the money “ never would be missed.”
Other shareholders talk dollars as though they were
as plentiful as blackberries on the South Coast
John Howell is to be managing director which
“ ea - tbat h ® 18 to run the show, and it is to be assumed
natl .j 6 modesty which has stopped his
being dubbed president ” right away. Admitting Mr
Howell s exceptional abilities and practical knowledge it
on Th« a n y f a ‘- I tt f t he Bhould not ba ve someone
un thi 6 a dlrec .torial board to assist him in holding
up the financial end of the stick. “
* • * ,
Crowl Creek copper mine (Shuttleton, N.S.W )•
BuLLprn is pleased to hear that the difficulties here-
men tioned last week have been overcome. The prospectors
P urcbaBln g syndicate have conferred, and have
A^ ed n° “““mpromise which is mutually satisfactory
hi e n ed dlBp , U u te i as t 0 membership of the syndicate
have been smoothed over. This is bad news for the
ih^iTi lt 18 ? P°? ltlve injustice to them that precedent
should be so far departed from as to allow of a mine in
N.S.W. being started without their “quibbling” fat
divs. in anticipation of mine profits. Crowl Creek
appears to have every element in itself to justify the
a hi K hly successful outcome.
nhH bt^ y ,-v, there V , a bi £ mine; the ore is amen-
ab.® to the simplest of treatment processes ; there
rasi- h hl e i t0 d b ri ? ross extrava k r ance somewhere if copper
b ®. landed ln Sydney at £35 per ton. All will depend
upon the management; men with “new-fangled
notions are not wanted on the job ; and,
to^m 8 ™ U N commit the folly-which has been fatal
to so many N.S.W. copper mines—of shipping matte
h V C r*y? VOlves i c °mmish ” bleeding at so many points
that little or nothing is left for the producer.
nary account sale ’’ for a shipment of matte would make
the average attorney’s costs-clerk groan with envy.
• * * •
„ ie secret of the decline in value of Sulphide
Corporation shares, while other Broken Hill stocks have
f^ n H n t^ he^P ' g r ade ’ 18 that financial requirements have
forced the directors to raise £lOO,OOO by the issue of
preferential debentures. This is a striking case of London
hiL S mii naS f m^ t ' < , The direc tors are not altogether
blameless for the failure of the zinc-process which involved
w, h - ‘f he f avy l oB8 ’ they were advised by American metal-
lurgists, to whom they paid a big fee, that there were weak
points m the process, and that it was desirable that further
experimental tests should be made. It is alleged that
the present financial weakness is attributable to other
experimental work. The co. is hopelessly overburdened
with capital, representing nothing; and another
m tr K Ctl ,? n ? a certainty. Anyhow, this
filnol d ww" 6 -.l° Ke , t . rid of th e complicated stock
issues. What with ordinary shares, preference shares
common debentures and preferential debentures
the arrangement is a veritable puzzle.
* • m •
Mr. J. D. Kendall, the American mining
engineer, who has been commissioned to report on the
proposal to buy the Great Cobar mine and other proper-
ties associated therewith, is busily engaged on the work.
He is evidently a man who does not allow any suggestion
of pleasure to interfere with duty, as he arrived in
Sydney on a Sunday morning, and started off per
train same evening. It is hinted that the American
Amalgamated Copper Trust is at the back of the proposed
w I' u *°' b wdl be no surprise if the deal eventuates.
Writer ha,s heard of other inquiries from America—made
through official sources—respecting N.S.W. copper mines.
White Feather Main Reefs, Kanowna (W.A.)
which has been rather under a cloud for some time
seems to have got over its troubles and declared a Xmas
div. of 6d Year’s divs. amount to £BOOO against £12,000
lor each of the three preceding years. Nov. return, 1480
tons for 14460 z. gold, valued at £5202, the highest average
for long past. Ore worth 70s. 4d. a ton, and, as working
costs are given at 365. 6d., there is a profit of 335. lCd a
ton, This pans out at fully £2500 a month, out of which,
however, London exes, have to be deducted. Work on
both reefs is being carried on at the 600 ft. and 750 ft.
levels, and very good stone is being met with. Mr. Nat
Harper, who has bossed the mine since its inception
has just returned from a trip to London and S’Africa’
bu P.. ,s .unfortunately not too well. Chief fault
of this mine is that the reefs underlie rather flat to the
east, and, as they were sunk through at a shallow depth,
long crosscuts are now required to reach the payable
stone. In the end a new main shaft will have to be sunk
as was obligatory in the case of the Great Fingall.
* * * *
Lake View Consols (W.A.), although not show-
mg, as yet, any very marked improvement in depth, is
still managing to hold its own, and to keep going with
ore taken from the shallower levels. When Bewick
Moreing took charge, some eight months ago, it was esti-
mated that the reserves would be exhausted by Nov., but
liAL'i 0W P ound t , hat the su PP i >’ is undiminished. About
1100 ft. of purely development work is being done
monthly, in addition to a lot of diamond-drilling—
about double that of any other mine on the field. The
average cost of this work runs to 15s. 6d. per ton treated.
7i he . C< i' ! 8 nON y mak 'ng a monthly profit of about £7OOO,
the total local expenses in Nov. amounting to 50s. 7d
while the ore was worth 725. 9d. a ton. The £125,000 in
the treasury, provided for an emergency, is not being en-
croached upon. Main shaft down about 1400 ft. and is to
be pushed on to 2000 ft.
♦ * ♦
Great Fingall (W.A.) continues to open up
well. No. 9 level, to meet which winzes have already
been carried down, will soon be under way, and this will
greatly increase ore reserves. For Nov. both the value
of the ore and of the gold was the best for six months,
former figuring out at £5 10s. 4d. per ton, and latter
at £3 Bs. 9d. per oz. So far, the co. has not treated
any slimes, and the accumulation to date is abcut
35,000 tons, which is being added to at the rate of
2500 tons monthly. As the large additions and extensions
to the surface equipment are now practically complete,
the margin for divs. must be very high, probably in the
neighborhood of £4 a ton—or £<?o non ,
plant would materially enhannTff 00 m ° nthI 7- Aslimei
seems highly probabl/thaf f tu , r , e distributions. Ii
advance year ai mos itTJ YY ? bow a substantial
sy* •*- sss aeasajaisa
* . , <
Boulder Main Reef (W A ) u*
run to a standstiU. J T 1)6611 "early
been transferred to East MurchYson “ a 'J a £ er - has
has been taken by Barton of th? t l o’ and hls P la ce
its last div. in Feb , In’order fn»°" g Reet 0o - Paid
of stopes has been let slide and I In? of o ™' B6 ’ the fillin g
2S2CS 8 &t? e - Tb ?^Z y er w SL b !
goS 1'“ n? Kt \° pri “
ar&fcafe a:
had made back into the Bmild^?™? B^ 06 Y about 160 f t-.
verification of this so far thoLY -? e P th -, Ther ® is no
parallel main lode in the Rnnw* h 18 a fact that the
at 1600 ft. than at HOOft Yt" iZt }' " earer the shaft
from west to east. What seems to haS chan S' e d
Horseshoe is that it is utflidnV? be Wro J lJf Wlth the
reserves to maintain the yield {L?°? I ? uch ot lts rich
Nov. return of 16 086 oz onlv qi<JY out of its
ore, and 6%20z. from hKmde Ye?? 6 Y° m ° rdinar >’
strong drain on the rich patch The v? d » e 7l a P rett y
shoe gold averages -p** ifi a Va ue the Horse-
Boulder, which touched Is’ls iYY ?* the Great
Jsswwa s 5,e
The Kalgurli ore Vanned out at 7S, 4d ’ a ton-
38s. 6d„ leaving a Yet profit of 39s Th? S’ 8 ,* 8 Y
srg fiSK
also to treating only one4hird thfYianttt, bat Thl’i and
hoe s profit is equivalent to 2s JL v Ivan*
while the Kalgurli’s is „nW eYn YfPY, S , har ® P er 1110 nth,
other things being equal ilanhne t 0 ? sC V° n this basis,
fully SJ times that of Kal’gYrH ?s fZ be r, ortb
it is only valued at don hie Thio v 8 ’ as . ? n ? a tter of fact,
of the market Reth • ThlS shows the inconsistency
deSh Kalgurli
but this is more thYn Compensated tor h£.° f Btope8 *
regularity of the Ivanhoe ore bod to! by * greater


DAVID JONES & CO.
X'- ■* '■. I ■■■
"X,
Genuine
Panamas
SPECIAL PURCHASE
FINE GRADE
HAND SELECTED
17 6 AND 21/“ EACH
George & Barrack Sts., Sydney
A MORAL.
Be on the safe side, as is natural
with all who use any of
HARRINGTON’S CAMERAS
and the Photographs you obtain will
be good and interesting.
Brides the renowned 30/- "Victor'" Hand Camera, Pre.no Pooo a
odak Cameras, we stock a variety ot reliable, ponuW-nrice Halid
Camera, ,cable tor taking Portrait,, Group,, View, and Sn.jXt.
Price, i 7/0, 10/0, 12/C, 15/-, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 42/-.
Illustrated Catalogues Free
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd., GO King Street," Sydney,
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
■‘C:
/:
</
;u>mim7n iiTHir
Society
[?]
Bu[?]
The miserable aldermen of Lady Robin-
son’s Beach, near Sydney, have petitioned the
postal authorities to change the name of that
pleasant sea-side village to “Brighton-le-Sands,”
which “would be so delightfully English, don-
cherknow.” “Lady Robinson’s Beach’’has too
much a flavor of Australia, Lady Robinson —good,
kindly, affectionately-remembered dame—having
once dwelt in this abject country. Why not go
the whole hog and call Australia “Hingland,”
and Sydney “London,” and Melbourne “Man-
chester” ; and the Yarra and the Parramatta can
compete for the honor of being called the Thames,
the loudest smell to take the prize ?
* * • *
Amusing to hear the “ blue-bloods ” of
Melbourne express regret that Lord Mayor Gillott
is going to take the chair at a banquet in honor of
bookmaker Joe Thompson, when that vociferous
ex-citizen comes to hand next week. As a matter
of faot, Joe and his Lordship the Mayor are, or
were, partners in a lot of Melbourne house-pro-
perty, and Joe’s visit probably means that they
are coming to a settlement of their business affairs
—dissolving partnership or something. One of
the Thompson-Gillott investments in days of yore
was the building known as “Evans’s Cafe,” in
Swanston-st. With deep emotion Lord Mayor G.
will propose the health of the returned absentee
landlord on this interesting occasion.
• - > • «** •
Joe Thompsoh! What memories the name
recalls of Melbourne 25 years agone ! The days
when the raucous-voiced bookie with his eagle
face held high festival at his East Melbourne
residence, Don Juan house—so called to com-
morate that famous turf-coup of his—and received
in his shirt-sleeves, amidst all sorts of splendor,
the Bohemian salt of the earth, from the Duke of
Edinburgh’s cock-fighting friend, Capt. Standish,
down to Mick Pender and Hector Wilson —the
latter just brought down from Melbourne gaol in
a four-horse-drag after serving the little “stretch ”
dealt out to him for having stoushed boniface
Wilson, of Scott’s Hotel, who had remonstrated
with him for filling his fellow-boarders’ boots
with water by way of a joke. The days when
that charming Tasmanienne, fascinated at the
races by the glittering orbs of Joe’s little brother
Barney, dropped to him her handkerchief, which
Barney promptly picked up with the heart of the
little woman wrapped in it! And the social sen-
sation there was when that charming little
creature became Mrs. Barney Thompson !
THE CAUSE.
SHE: “I see by [?] .S.W. returns that single men are twice as liable to become insane as
married men.”
HE : Yes, it's the strain of dodging the husbands of so many married women.”
Mrs. Sangal is a Dane. Tissler, her
paramour, was a Russian Finn. The man who
entertained their proposal to murder Sangal (but
afterwards funked the job) was a Spaniard. The
sailor who, in a drunken frenzy, choked to death
at Melbourne an elderly woman stranger whom he
met in the street, is a Norwegian. Then there
was at Melbourne the suddenly-insane German
merchant who slew his wife and one or two
children before fatally wounding himself. He
was mud. Now comes the case of the frenzied
Greek at Kalgoorlie.
Kalgoorlie had a very sudden kind of
horror a few weeks ago. Piohitsas, the Greek
fruit-seller, went away on business, leaving the
speckled-banana trade, and, incidentally, his
pretty 23-year-old wife and his baby, in charge of
his brother, a youth of 20. One morning soon
afterwards the shop didn’t open, and police in-
vestigation revealed the woman with her throat cut
and the child battered to death, and the speckled
banana mouldering unsold in the window. Young
Pichitsas was found later in the day lurking in a
dry creek, with a gory razor and a loaded revolver
on him. A rising lawyer might make the be-
ginnings of a great name and a great fortune by
convincing a jury in the face of these circum-
stances that the crime was done by a strange man
who broke into the house, and that brother
Pichitsas was only lurking in the creek in a
gallant and honorable effort to defend his sister-in-
law at any cost.
* * * •
There is surely something inherently
absurd in applying civilised law to such beings as
the aborigine who has confessed to the Ramsay’s
Bush murder—a terrible incident of the Xmas
season in Sydney. The blackfellow, according to
his own account, “felt he wanted to kill some-
body.” As evil fate would have it, a little girl,
aged 10 years or so, passed by his lair seeking
flowers to decorate her home for the holiday; the
savage sprang on her, crushed _ her head in
with a stone, and, his blood-thirst appeased,
wandered away. Ramsay’s Bush—a bosky
piece of land bordering on Sydney’s chief
railway suburbs —was the scene of an
equally maniacal, but more revolting tragedy
a few months ago. The perpetrator, a sex maniac,
was hanged, though, if any hanging was done, the
victims should have been the persons responsible
for the madman being at liberty ; ho had been
under lock and key for a sex-madness crime before,
and was liberated to shock the community with
two awful tragedies—one at Ramsay’s Bush and
another at Queanbeyan.
• • • •
The Adelaide Labor paper “ gets home "
heavily upon its traditional enemy, by comparing
the orderliness and earnestness of the Com-
memoration proceedings at the local School of
Mines, attended largely by artisans and the sons
of artisans, with the brainless larrikinisra of the
corresponding proceedings at the local University,
attended mainly by “ young gentlemen.”
* • * •
Most of the Adelaide University Com-
memoration Day disorder arises from the personal
unpopularity of Chancellor Way, who, although
he tries hard in certain directions, never manages
to buy the goodwill of the students. This year
he gave an “At Home ” the night before the
Commem. Last year the professors circulated a
report that he was endeavoring to get a recreation
ground for the students. Neither plan worked,
and the recreation ground has not yet materialised.
* * » *
The Adelaide dailies of Dec. 22 contain a
wedding-notice and a death-notice, showing that
some poor fellow had died just three days after his
marriage. And the words affixed by the sorrow-
ing relatives to the record of his death are “At
Rest ” 1
A healthy sign in Sydney is the growing
influence of Trades-Unionism. The latest associa-
tion is of “ news-vendors, street-musicians, shoe-
blacks, lace and stud sellers, fruit-hawkers, fish-
sellers, flower-sellers, and general street-workers.”
It is to be governed by a Tribunal (no less),
with two “ Tribunes ” from each calling—suggest-
ing the days of the Roman Republic. A quaint
rule is that providing for the electibn of officers ;
whilst all the others are to be members of the
union, the treasurer is to be “a member of the
Sydney Labor Council.”
SHOWING CAUSE.
SHE: “ I wish you weren't such a grumpy, jealous beast."
THE TERTIUM QUID: “ Well, haven't you gone to the theatre two
nights this week with that precious husband of yours!”
Remarkable how anxious the general
public is to bounce the civil servant. T’other
week an indignant Argus correspondent com-
plained bitterly of the competition of the c.s. with
the outsider, and instanced the case of a railway
man who “had been known to grow 70 bags of
potatoes.” Recently one of T. Bent’s relieving
station-masters was ordered to take three “holi-
days,” without pay, in one week and five in the
next. If they are often treated in that fashion no
wonder they take to potato-growing for a living.
• • • •
Most of the Victorian railway wages men
are now being paid for five days a week, and most
of the salaried for days, yet there is hardly one
man or boy who isn’t doing his regular 6 days’
work per week. In the few cases where he doesn’t
actually attend on the odd day or half-day, he
crams into the other 51 or 5 the work he used to
do in 6. The days and naif-days are supposed to
be accumulating towards a long holiday when the
department can spare the men, while all the time
everyone in the department, and everybody who
knows anything outside of it, are perfectly well
aware that these men will never be spared and
will never be paid, and are being merely “strung
on.” It is simply underhand, cowardly spoliation.
Bigjohn’s three-million scheme, though it
may give the Westralian goldfields water, will
not give them cheap water. To get the accounts
square they will have to sell 2£ million gals, daily
at 6s. 6d. per 1000 ; and when people have to pay
6s. 6d. per 1000, 21 million gals, take a lot of
selling. The pipes are now being laid through
Kalgoorlie.
The Xmas number of
the Australasian gives a
page of illustrations glori-
fying Chow life in Mel-
bourne. The picture of a
Chinese merchant and
family at dinner is shown
as a beautiful and improv-
ing subject; also the artist
depicts the children in the
act of acquiring Chris-
tianity and arithmetic from
some teachers of the Pres-
byterian Women’s Mission-
ary Union. But the artist
forgot to include a sketch
of a big boy Chow mur-
muring his tale of admira-
tion to a susceptible lady
missionary.
• * *
It was long ago decided
to plant trees in Moore-st.
and Martin-place, Sydney,
and at last a start has been
made with one plant name-
less among the people, and
an oleander bush—and this
within a fortnight of mid-
summer. The gardeners
concerned have presumably
studied the chances of the
trees, which to ordinary
folks do not seem very
bright. But why an olean-
der bush in that street and
amongst the buildings com-
pleted or perfected ? Will
they put a bamboo clump
a little further on ? Would
hibiscus or spirea serve
about the crossways?
Surely if trees are required
in such a locality they
should be of trunk and
crown, symmetrical and
grand —such as the pines
which once gave character
to Bridge-st.; or the oaks
so sadly missed in Phillip-
st.; or the magnolias that
once made beauty and rare
fragrance before some of the
old homes fronting the Gar-
dens; or those big Norfolk
Island pines which dignify
the Inner Domain as spires
complete the beauty of a city.
• * • *
The new postal arrangement, by which
postmen are to deliver stamped but unaddressed
circulars on their rounds, one at each house, is
coming in for much execration. It is denounced
as a new-fangled device, which it isn’t, being
merely the adoption of an English idea, which is
said to work well enough ; though, if it were new,
it would be so much the better. It is also pointed
out that it will deprive of their means of liveli-
hood some people who occasionally keep bones
and souls precariously together by addressing cir-
culars. There is a heart-breaking semblance of
truth about that last statement; yet addressing
circulars is wasted labor if they can reach their
destination equally well unaddressed, and it is piti-
ful if this bright young country has to invent use-
less, profitless jobs as an excuse whereby a few
of its sons and daughters may earn the thin
semblance of a crust. It would be better to pro-
hibit the importation of cotton goods, and let these
persons who are disinherited of their circular-
addressing job get some real work at manufac-
turing the three millions’ worth of calico and so
on that is now imported. There is also a com-
plaint that postmen will be overloaded and the
delivery of letters delayed, but, after all, the
Department can get more postmen. Anyhow, the
Department’s business is to carry everything
it can, and make as much money as it can. It is
a sordid business, but if the Department doesn’t
make money, and keep itself up to date, it gets
into trouble.
But the envelope-addressers need not worry
too seriously. All but the dullest of busi-
ness men will soon find out that an unaddressed
circular left at a house is like a bill thrown over
the fence or offered promiscuously in the street—
contemptuously thrown aside. It is the personal
compliment which the addressee gets out of a
circular addressed to himself that secures for it an
atom of attention. The more acute traders
recognise this and strive in circular-printing to
get hand-writing or type-writing as closely imi-
tated as possible, for people will give more
attention to a letter which they think is written
than to one which is obviously printed.
• * * •
The worm behind the counter has turned
at last—the Adelaide worm who allowed Mrs.
Cadger to hook him every time she went out
angling in the interests of a bazaar. Adelaide,
having so many churches and other good but
equally hungry “ causes,” breeds bazaars almost
as freely as sparrows; so that the worm, which
began to give a trifle from the stock j ust to keep Mrs,
Cadger’s custom, was coaxed into submitting to a
worse system of highway robbery than even the
coupon-fiend is responsible for. In the end lie
plucked up enough courage to sign a solemn
covenant undertaking to resist Mrs. Cadger in the
future. Practically every wholesale and retail
worm has done it now, and some of them are
really beginning to feel like men again.
“Dean Winchester dead. Victim mayoral
banquet.” —Reuter cable (unexpanded).
[For The Bulletin.]
Did this saintly, lean ascetic,
With a weakness quite pathetic,
Fill his meek and lowly stomach till it passed the burst-
ing-point ?
Did this man of holy suasion
Seize the favor’ble occasion—
Swallow drink and, stumbling homeward, put his neck
clean out of joint?
Or are we, through some upheaval,
Back in ages mediaeval—
In the days when Caesar Borgia did the aovereign sceptre
wield,
When a scented invitation
To a gastric dissipation
Was a courteous death-warrant, all delivered, signed,
and sealed ?
So we’re racked with awful questions,
And with horrible suggestions,
Of the fearsome possibilities this cable doth present.
To the lesson we’ll give heeding,
Swearing off all civic feeding
Till some harmless explanation tells us what the message
meant!
ULOOLA.


BEST
KLQNERT
FEATHERWEIGHT
REG.Q
THE SMART
DRESSMAKER
Will not Risk
an Expensive
Gown by using
Dress Shield 3
that do not
protect.
Look for the Name —
J^eanjless
3toclW
ORESS
AHIELDS
The Gem (White or Black)
FOR RACE & THEATRE GOWNS.
Sold only by the Best Shops.
“ KLEINERT.”
It is a Guarantee.
T e Ambassador
(Seamless Stockinet)
for COMFORT & WEAR
W lid s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the mosb
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-streeb
or King street, Sydney. *
SILVER
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
Knox M.H.R. (of the racecourse hat)
worked a Bulletin “ wheevo »
ton send-off, at Melbourne Town Hafl W £ lbn S'
marked that Wallv a* Z j all ‘ 116 re-
aB3e hoepitsble .few.'hfd&fc from
Certain members of Sydney Water and
Sewerage Board recently visited the works at
FACT.
SQUATTER O’BRULGRUDDERY: “ Well, Mister, ye're portrait of me is very
fair but what's this? Ye've pictured me wid wan oye! ”
ARTIST: “ It’s profile, sir.”
S. O’B.: “ Profeel, be hanged! Ye'll have to put in t'other oye.”
Cataract Dam to see if a public-house license
should be granted for the benefit of the navvies.
They drove out in a comfortable vehicle, and
stopped on the road for lunch (and doubtless
some liquor) at a convenient hotel. Then they
went on to Cataract Dam, with suspicious hampers
that looked like liquor in the buggy, probably to
Keep them from fainting between lunch and
dinner Next they drove back to the hotel for
dmner (and presumably liquor). And then they
decided that drink was a bad thing, and that the
idea of granting a license to sell beer to the
perspiring toilers at Cataract Dam was utterly
nefarious. After which these great and good but
dry men may have had more spirituous refresh-
ment—or they may not.
* * • *
Sydney D.T. report of the “ continental ”
on Boxing Night
The visitors are now taking these entertainments in the
proper spirit, and roam about the oval, or 101 l on the
grass in comfort. The innovation of turning out the
whole of the lights on the ground while the cinemato-
graph displays were given proved very popular.
Dm ! The proper spirit ?
Re N.S.
Wales
women
and their
votes, thus
a police-
man :—“ J
managed
to get all
about here
enrolled,
except a
few living
with other
wo men’s
h u s bands,
and so on.
They, of
c o u r s e,
didn’t care
to give
their
names, and
I couldn’t
coax ’em
nohow.
That being
so, I re-
marked, it
behoves all
respect-
able wom-
en to see
that they
are enrolled—either that or be regarded and
treated as suspicious characters ”
• • * •
M^ n t‘ A ' Cr / Inez Bensusan tells how
Sak on ?’Tb 0f De “ ver ’ ?’ S ’ A - tames wild
animals. The great secret is this : I only fondle
tvhv rWt 1 !l knOW they ar v 6 in tl,e mood for it.”
vv hy don t the women who are married to wild
men remember that ?
“ Medicus ”
writes :
Re the diminu-
tion of the birth-
rate in Australia.
I can endorse the
remarks of your
correspondent,
“ Oolcynth ” (25/
10/’O2). The females
of the community,
married and un-
married, are con-
tinually pestering’
medical men “to
get them out of
their trouble.” But
perhaps the most
potent factor in
diminishing the
birth-rate is the
medico himself. A
class of doctors
caters for this kind
of business. Their
reputation soon
becomes estab-
lished, and they are
then simply rushed
by females requir-
ing their assist-
ance. On the other
hand, doctors who
refuse these cases
soon cease to re-
ceive applications.
Most large towns
can boast of a few
practitioners of the
accommodating
sort. In my town
there are a few, but
one in particular
carries on the busi-
ness wholesale. I
know of at least
two deaths among
the mothers in his
practice, and of
several others who
have been saved
from death only
by the timely in-
terference of other
surgeons. None of
these deaths came
under the cognis-
ance of the law on
account of the un-
willingness of the
friends to expose
matters. The
medico gives a cer-
tificate of death,
and goes on his way
. . destroying lives
wdh impunity. He becomes so used to the busi-
ness that he will oblige the applicant rather than
ose a half-guinea fee. In some cases, where he knows
that he cannot command a large fee, he conceals from the
W0 ? 1 j ll herself the fact that he is procuring a miscarriage,
and does this merely to secure the fee for attend-
ing on the resulting illness. He gets nothing for the ille-
gitimate operation, but probably secures her as a patient.
In addition to the wholesale slaughter of unborn children
the mothers themselves die occasionally, and the pre-
sence of an “ obliging” doctor in the district supplies a
powerful incentive to immorality among the juvenile
population—the price charged is so low that it is within
the reach of all. The kind of medico in question is, as
a rule, not well up in his profession, and so the death-
rate among the mothers is often greater than it need be.
The class of women who formerly made a living by this
kind of work find their occupation gone. They cannot
compete with the medical abortionist, his fees are so
ridiculously low, and in the event of an accident he can
give a certificate of death.
Some of this strikes one as being a good deal over-
drawn. A man does not work with a rope around
his neck at 10s. 6d. a job; and a doctor who, of
his own accord and without permission of the
patient, caused miscarriage would be liable to a
civil action for damages.
SHE KNEW.
“I'm sorry to have to talk to you, Mary, about keeping bad company; but I hear you
were at Coogee with my husband last Sunday.
That much-talked-of “Austrian cowardice”
‘‘ t™ ck of , th ? Elingamite boils down to a
allf Ik * ffai v, 4 for e>gner had equipped him-
Ifl W ‘ th t 4° llfe_be 4 s ’ and one °f the crew asked
Sout i’LT ° ff as l u ere 'Y ere two children
denoe twi foreigner (there is no reliable evi-
dence that he was an Austrian) kept on replying
SaVee ‘ *-• rhe sbl P was going down fast, and
there was no time to explain, so the sailor laid out
titT?k W u-° i llC ? nofc savee with a lurn P of timber
children hh ßot ) h Ifc f m d fastened them round the
cniidren. Both children were saved, and so was
the sador but of the foreigner no one knows any-
hn\ g hi a P , b y . the ? an deserved all he got,
conduct, and the uncertainty as to
whether he was Greek or Dago, didn’t justify the
E“Vof itSJS
teh«vSl„™ S „ h idly e m “Ln ,tS “ d eemr “ ,y
, * * m *
p 4 Ot o he , r mo ™ a , woman, living near Hyde
Bark, Sydney, bought 3d. J
worth of peaches, and
tendered a sovereign
in payment. The
hawker hadn’t
enough change, but
volunteered to get
it at the pub. close
by if she would
mind his basket.
She minded it for
10 minutes. Then
she became suspi-
cious, and went to
the pub. to ascer-
tain if the peach
man was “doing
in” the sov. He
wasn’t ; he had
passed through and
disappeared up
Oxford-st, without
leaving his address.
Half - a - dozen
“likely-looking per-
sons ” were arrested
within an hour, but
not the right one.
Meanwhile, the street
arabs gathered like
crows around the
abandoned basket,
and had a gay
time until a des-
pairing police-
man came along
and took it in
charge. The
hawker hasn’t come
back for it yet.
The Industrial
Exchange, started by
Canon Tucker and
others, in Melbourne,
is a likeable form of
market for workers who can’t
find cash customers, Indus-
trial-exchangers place their
goods with the depdt, and
receive certificates to the ap-
proved value, and the certificate
purchaseslits equivalent in boots,
furniture, vegetables, &c., from
the Exchange stock. As a mutual-benefit
coupon system in labor-trading it supplies a
amentable want, and tends to keep struggling
impecumosity from the pawnshop of Uncle
Lazarus Threeballs.
• * * «
Says Cairns Post :
. ie Australian, which arrived on Saturday last, brought
to Cairns the 3 wives and 21 children of one of our lead big
Chinese residents. “
At this rate “our leading residents” will soon
swamp Mongrelia.
• • • •
A Cairns man suggests starting a porpoise
and dugong butchering establishment to combat
the present high price of meat. But why not
establish a co-operative business by present fisher-
men—who get from fat middlemen about 25 per
cent, of what the public pays for ordinary fish—
and regulate prices according to supply and de-
mand . The Sydney “ring” makes fish a luxury.
T.W. writes on ships’ lifeboats
-m^ aS °- n 9.? f a crew of men who, 15 years ago spent
ove d r fooo N ' Paciflc in a boafc 28x6 overall.
aJ 170 wer^rl 68 ’ TaT per dav ‘ Some da >’ B as much
Vlarvpltmfu recorded by observation and patent log also.
Marvellous the actual amount these boats can carrv with
canTem C °“ tents of each boat,asnear as'l
can lemember, were mast, two sprits and sails iib 8
inseed o?l bU for , a t belt ° f CanV t 8 ’ COil rattline line -
amp ahont 90 ? nUy Wea her - 2 S a > B - colza tor lamp,
™ P ’ch,V] 9 h °s? T° den baUens , hammer, nails,
Ccwt bisouitß 98lh ah h WkS ’ , lUgaiB - water (insufficient),
knowf S i 28 A b ’ b P x tobacco, 3 hams (why, I don’t
kiXL b ' t1 ? 8 bouilU bee, < 150 tins, assorted
Mix vines such as salmon, sardines, jam, chicken etc •
I lmt o not le Wst B io tant ’ b ? oks> chart > compass, and last’
wok k J men whose average kit weighed 40ib
i , db . battens and canvas raised a bulwark 2ft. high com-
winf y ro *? nd i'hp boat, made awning from mast to stern
ha n ni, °: fp °, Ur breaker ’ as a chance sea might
nave spout our scanty supply of water. We were short
A u ter tW ° * eeks ou b and entirely without it 24 hours
tun 9aven ' se " t shower providentially filled our breaker'
also our sea-boots, bouilli tins, &e„ ind all indulged in a
anowancewh°pn g t e h retUrninkr n° ° Ur Previous short daily
out—he°h>U overho T C T ed ’ Lost the mate three weeks
the boat t b n-’ and We were unable t 0 save him, as
wind b w « travelling seven knots right before the
landing ThcYw™' effe , ct ? except fee,in g a bit stiff on
day s Lt ami n?oo ln 7t anted to fill the breakers, take a
MvSfi? d . toa more bequented part of the
?,• e ‘ M .V se lf and remainder of crew, however, were not
taking any, so remained for six weeks, very welDreated
Sa unltinTour anded , J , apan by a copra schooner.’
one and ah of t^ h water was Practised by
old ? f , US throughout the passage. I think ever'v
shellback knows of this remedy for allaying thirst.
A
■■ a 7 e ■ se f lslble suggestion is that of
boot f r ln - t le Sydney press—that the life-
boats of sea-going vessels should always be pro-
vided with fishing-tackle. That simple provision
might make all the difference between starvation
and comfort for persons marooned from a wreck.
.
i ei U a &S ney ed wife told a Melbourne bench
lately that ‘‘she had been married 16 years.
unrig the last 14 of which she had never
received a penny from her husbend. He kept a
horse and trap and a bike, but she had been out
with him only once in six years. During the last
two years he had never opened his lips to her.”
As the husband admitted making 70s. a week the
lady got an order for £l.
a * * * *
A correspondent:—
a lorn v! ngas I K° to m y office I pass the back yard
k k A W v h ° doea rny Bhlrts - She is always out, but
l b /, (jUS j craw . lln g) is home. The kid is given a huge
nrnn nln re e ' jam aboufc 8 a ' m -> tied t 0 a clothes.
times later fC Charge ° f the dog until midday . or some
CRUEL.
CLUMP: “ Would it inconvenience you at all ,
madam, if I lit up? ”
MADAM: “Not at all, my dear; but” (sweetly)
“ what about yourself?”
The usual small boy who desecrated the
Sabbath by trying to drown a pup, turned up at
Richmond (Melb.) lately. Three times he vainly
tried to slay the animal, then he connected its
neck to his own wrist with a piece of string.
During this operation the dog pulled the boy in,
the string broke, and the boy stayed in while the
pup got out. The boy’s funeral was last week.
As for the pup, it still thrives.
THE NOSE WE KNEW SO WBLL.
It has gone from our sight,
Though the type will endure ;
It can no more invite
Local caricature ;
On the free ocean wave
It resonantly blows
To the tune of “ Gorsave
Does the Wallington Nose.
Wally-cwm-Wellington,
Wallington Nose.
From the time of Phil May
(Of the masterful pen)
It was sport till to-day
For the black-and-white men,
And they stuck to the joke,
Whilst the custom arose
Of describing a “ boke ’’
As a Wallington Nose—-
Wally-cwm-Wellington,
Wallington Nose.
Sow its shadow will fall
Near the King on his throne :
In baronial hall
Will its greatness be known.
Yet ’twill flourish always
Where the wild wattle grows,
For a national phrase
Is the “ Wallington Nose"
W ally-cwm-W ellington,
Wallington Nose.


Sv
“eEAV’EMETTES”
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS.
A
SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. ' Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stopping’s Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R. r \s., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxford-st. Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
-——underwear
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable
Recommended by “ Lancet.”
J. McBRATNEY (Wholesale nnl.A
389 Qeorge-st. Sydney.
The Lacte Remedies— What they are. How
to use them, and speedily obtain a beautiful
plumpness.of face, neck and arms, and a perfect
bust. Write for H. Westall Guest’s new pamph-
let, post free, 229 Bourke-st., Melb.*
4
*
O
o
Q
Or
CASE
OF
a
A
CHARLES HEIDSIE
CHAMPAGNE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 30, 1902.
My Dear Arini—
Our late Gov. -General, Linlithgow, has accepted
the chief figure-headship of the newly-formed
Australasian Woman’s Club in London. Some
ex-Melbourne presswomen who started the Vic-
torian Austral Salon are fashioning the new club,
which admits men as Associates, and has “social,
literary, artistic, musical, industrial departments”
and so drags with a pretty wide net. Dr. Cockburn
presided at the inaugural meeting. Marchioness
Linlithgow was “approached,” I am told, and I
can almost hear the “ snoof ” of scorn with which
she gave the negative. So “snoofed” the lady
when, ten years ago, she was humbly requested
to figurehead the bantling Melbourne Salon. It
was only when one of the press-women, now
incubating the A.W.C. in London, told her that
if she wouldn’t, the N.S.W. Governess of that
time (Lady Jersey, I think) would, that Lady H.
yielded. If the just-formed A.W.C. can make
itself residential at about tuppence a week and
no extras, it will be a heaven of a haven to the
Australian with a Voice (there are scores of her)
and the Australian with a Book (in MS.).
A correspondent, writing of the wedding of that
very nice girl, Dorothy Brand (the Hampdens’
youngest daughter) and Mr. Feilden, comments
upon the beauty of the furs and the quantity of
carnations worn by the guests —sable and silver
fox, and pink or crimson carnations made a splep
did show. Mrs. Freeman-Thomas, of China-wreck-
celebrity, was present, dressed in pale-pink cloth
with sables and pink toque. Her step-mother,
Lady Brassey, also wore a small fortune in the
shape of a furry coat over her black gown. The
bride’s gown was sewn with brilliants.
A returned Coronator says she used to see Mrs.
Maesmore Morris (Australia’s Lily-Langtry-like
beauty) driving in the Park. Her horses were-
black and very fine, her sables were magnificent,
and her flunkeys wore cockades in their hats.
Clearly, some Australian geniuses are appreciated
in London.
And this is sent by an Australian daily’s London
correspondent :
Quite the best of Mr. Emil Fuchs’ somewhat uneven
examples of his work, now on view at the Grafton
Galleries, are two three-quarter length portraits of the
Australian beauty, Mrs. Maesmore Morris. That wherein
she is depicted in a black picture hat and dark fur coat,
seated in a high-backed crimson chair, is the better like-
ness of her, and a speaking one it is, while the more
fascinating and artistic counterfeit presentment of her
represents her clad in a very decollete gauzy black even-
ing dress, resting on a Recamier sort of gilt lounge, and
holding a silver-framed mirror in her hand.
Concerning a recent Sydney divorce-kuit, isn’t
it high time that the Commandment, “Thou shalt
not bear false witness,” was qualified or modified
religiously, as it is so often and honorably defied
legally ? The truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth is counted absolutely shameful and
blameworthy sometimes. If the responding lady
swears she is innocent, and the co-re3ponding man
admits his guilt, or even keeps silence on the
matter, the great heart of the Public surges with
rage and scorn, and stigmatises him as a Worm for
not perjuring himself for the woman’s sake. If
there be trouble to Her ward,” says a Kipling
ballad, “and a lie of the blackest can clear, lie
whilst thy lips can move, or a man is alive
to hear.” This about describes the general opinion
of the community, which is, moreover, apparently
not unshared by the Bench itself. Awhile ago,
in M.L., a man who declined to perjure himself
when there was trouble to Her ward “because of
his soul’s sake ” was told in effect by the Judge
that such souls as his were not worth saving.
Marie Corelli’s Satan would kick such out of his
club-house.
The Lamberts, Arthur Adams, and “Willie”
Beattie are living together in London, happy as—
as painters, poets and musicians may be in one
nest. It must be an interesting household.
Lambert, when not absorbed in painting, is
eminently sane and entertaining. Adams, as
befits a poet, is, to quote Weir Mitchell, “ a man
with buttons but no button-holes to his mental
clothing,” and Beattie has a lovely voice in song
and a tongue cunning as a coyote in debate.
Longstaff is painting a portrait of Mrs. Harry
Conran—a Melbourne girl married to a London
stockbroker. The lady’s husband is a son of the
late Colonel Conran, formerly of Geelong, and
one of the gamest of financial operators.
One of Arthur Streeton’s landscapes has
been bought by Lord Beauchamp, who seems
to be a veritable fairy godfather to young Austra-
lians in London.
At Tattersall’s Club races on Boxing Day
was worn a dress that showed originality.
It was a cream-hued gown with horseshoes
in a deeper shade of cream satin appliqued all
over it. If there be luck in horseshoes other than
“cast” ones the wearer ought to have backed
the winner all the time. Other dressing not
remarkable, save perhaps Carrie Moore’s of
pink and cerise. An unusual number of small
children were out wearing those close-fitting baby
hoods with an ostrich tip on one side and a rosette
on the other. Of purse-bags tethered to the
waist there was a fine, varied, and elaborate dis-
play. An other-Stater had a big one of olive-green
kid, emblazoned with a gold dragon holding a
chrysanthemum in his tail. The Cranbrook
mother and girlie were present, looking somewhat
pale and fined-down with heat and speech-days.
The term “Continental” is not usually asso-
ciated with an odor of sanctity, and the Sacred
Continental at Sydney Cricket Ground on Xmas
night was an incongruous if mundanely-profitable
inspiration. Thousands swarmed in the stands
and round the glittering lawn, and then out went
all the lights, and over crowded lawn and
stands fell shadow and silence, and the Passion
Play as it is given at Oberammergau flickered
across the cinematograph canvas. The peasants
who take the parts of The Redeemer and
the Virgin Mary in the representation are
required never to have known the lusts of
the flesh, and judging by the heavy German
faces, the square heads, and pendulous cheeks,
that qualification severely limits _ the_ choice
of suitable mummers. In the blazing light the
Redeemer hung and suffered, Mary wept, and the
grim Roman soldiery stood round motionless. In
the shadow the twentieth-century crowd stood at
ease with its best girl or its wife on its arm, and
most of it smoked placidly till the last flicker
died away and the lights flashed out again, and a
page of the first of the Christian era was blotted
out in the strains of “Trovatore.”
Mr. Dick Stewart (Nellie’s brother) who is
managing the Sherlock Holmes Co. in Tas ; , made
many hearts beat allegro agitato by serving the
owners with bogus summonses to attend as
witnesses in “ the Strange Case of Miss Faulkner
and Sherlock Holmes.” The subpoena looked the
real legal blue sheet with its printed formula.
That sort of thing, by the way, is technically ille-
gal, and hasn’t got any justification to condone
its unlawfulness ; and, some day, somebody will
find a crop of trouble as a result of sowing adver-
tisements of the kind. Many people at once
assume, on seeing the blue paper, that their
hidden crime has come to light, and in the case of
a person with a weak heart the results may be
serious. The proceeding is just as mean and
unjustifiable as it is to telegraph to any respect-
able elderly solicitor that all is discovered and he
must fly instantly.
Augusta Dargon, a tragedienne and reciter of
note during the early ’Bo’s, died at Gundagai,
N.S.W., on Xmas night. Irish by birth,
and a woman of strong personality, she had
attained some celebrity in the States when in
79 she came to Australia, where for a time
she prospered exceedingly on the stage. She left
the profession to marry a Sydney physician, Dr.
Ellis Piercy. A few years later the death of her
only child, in infancy, inflicted a shock from
which Mrs. Piercy never quite recovered.
“Thirty Thieves,” at the Royal, for the first
time in Sydney, on Saturday. Music by Edward
Jones, words by W. H. Risque, wigs by Gustave.
The wigs are very good. “T.T.” is ingenious
scissors and paste and reminiscence, but it went
capitally, thanks to the players and their singing,
and not much thanks to Messrs. Jones and Risque.
Josephine Stanton, the co.’s prima-donna, has
surely shed a stone of her weight since she was
last with us, and her voice has hardened a bit, but
she made a sweet, bright-eyed, slap-dash, coquet-
tish “slavey,” whom all the principal Thieves
wish to take as wife—each unto himself. The
“T.T.’s” taste in evening dress is superb. All
Boxing Night, wide through the landscape of my
dreams, a lordly set of thieves all in black satin—
knee-breeches and silk stockings and coats —
“ pursued their nefarious projects ” and hugged
the prima-donna, then changed to a fuller dress of
crimson satin. Thirty lovely men singing in per-
fectly-fitting crimson satin evening clothes, and
filching my dream diamonds and rainbow gold !
The mosquitoes roosted undisturbed on the handle
of the telephone, which might have rung up
George Musgrove and told him to call off his
thieves.
Edward Lauri—looking like Sampson Brass —
kept all the knickerbockered boys and three-
quarter-skirted girls in the house laughing.
Audience was mostly 13-year-old youngster home
for its holiday. And what a study in laughs they
made ! There was the giggle and the titter, and a
boy near me had a really unique substitute for a
laugh. It was exactly like the clicking together
of two shingles.
Paling’s Xmas Annual—cover bearing a fine
portrait of Melba—is to hand. Among the con-
tents are Gounod’s famous “Nazareth” and
“Coronation,” a pretty mazurka, some melodious
Irish ballads, and coon songs.
Talking of weddings : An American paper to
hand by last mail tells of the marriage of the
brother of a noted earl (holding a high political
appointment) to a girl of the much-paragraphed
Doukhobor sect. The young aristocrat was
travelling in Canada, and saw the maiden,
with other women, doing the ox act be-
tween the shafts of a waggon. A few days
later, says the paper, he married the girl
“according to the simple rites of her people.”
An authority says that this sect has no marriage
ceremonial at all. So perhaps the Honorable
Mrs. Doukhobor cannot even make things un-
pleasant for her Philip Augustus about alimony.
However, the choice, if the tale be true, shows
originality on the part of young English aristo-
cracy. Large numbers of earls’ brothers have, in
the past, got the arrow in the heart through seeing
a damsel under the limelight inside an inch of
paint and 60 yards of accordeon-pleated under-
skirts. To select your bride whilst she is straining
at the traces across the black soil plains whilst
Papa Doukhobor waves a rag whip and says
“ Whoa, Olga Feodrovina,” is original.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Melbourne is deprived temporarily of all
Y.R. magnificence. The Governor-General went
Adelaide-wards for Ins Xmas snack, and the State
Governor moved to Tas. Only Aide Nevill stays
behind ‘ to see to things,’ doncherknow, and frisk
at Melba’s picnic jaunts, and generally enjoy him-
self.
“ Melba eating her Xmas pudding with her
dad at Lilydale was designed to be a heart-moving
picture. So it proved to the bulk of the imagina-
tive, and one couldn’t buy a packet of pins or a
pair of fresh-air hose in a city shop without the
saleswoman (or man) dwelling on the touching
subject. Society, on the other hand, failed to see
the virtue of it, and felt riled at being left out of
the songster’s Xmas pranks. Toorak dances to
Melba’s piping, and puts on cap-and-bells for the
diversion of the diva. ‘ Myoora ’ has resounded
to some hearty laughter since Melba dwelt there.
The serious, not to say solemn, Robert Harper
will have the gay echoes clinging to the tapestries
for many a day.
“Capt. Wallington grew benign and gracious
towards the hour of his departure. To Toorak
dames, who wrote tearful farewells, suave and
honeyed replies were sent. He was sad, he wrote
in one instance, ‘to be leaving the scene of so
many precious memories.’ Wally, in a state of
pathos, moved to tender farewells, seems bizarre
and incomprehensible.
“The departed Wellington /as regarded y
intimates less in the light of a love-bird than of a
philosophic parrot, too wise to tell half “? £ n f '
Eyeing his comrades cynically at times his face
seemed to say, ‘ Decent chap, but an
or ‘Nice numskulled youngster that. home
times he said sharp things, as well as looked therm
One night he was politely speeding parting guests
in the chilly hall at Govt. House, when one of the
farewellers, a garrulous Federal granny, ,P ,
more than once, ‘Do go in, Captain Wallington
You’ll catch your death in this draugthy ice-
chest!’ ‘Sorry you find it so bad as all that
murmured her host’s substitute, sweetly. iviay
I get you an extra wrap ? ’
“ ‘ Wally ’ slipped off very quietly from Spencer-
street to catch his boat at Adelaide. Lanier, o
citizens had pledged him a toast or two, at tne
Town Hall, where Eye-glass Reid had congratu-
lated him on ‘ emerging from many a battle, still
a bachelor.’ The Reid, himself, was surprised
into matrimony so late in the day that he respects
as a wary old bird indeed, anyone who escapes
the snare. Maybe the Wallington, too, is conscious
that nothing but desperate remedies have so tar
kept him free. I can’t help suspecting that his
sensational ‘going-away’ garb was expressly
designed to scare off the girls to the last. Either
that or the traveller-to-be had laid out the cast-
aways of his wardrobe to be given to Xmas poor,
and, changing his mind in a burst of economy, had
exclaimed : ‘ Better not —they’ll do for the
voyage ! ’ A shortish coat of large yellow check;
trousers also of big check, bilious tweed but not a
match for the coat; a flat little white gem-hat,
such as the funny man wears on the stage ; a wide
hat-band of Presbyterian-blue, and a bright pea-
green neck-scarf. Now, could such a costume be
accidental ?
“One of the farewell dinners to Captain
Wallington was given by Melba at Myoora. The
Huttons, Albert Millers, T. A. Pattersons,
harpiste Sassoli and her mother were the family
people. Girls were represented by Gov. Clarke’s
daughter and Miss Mary Buckley ; men, the
guest, Lord Dick, Viscount Boringdon, Colonel
Campbell and Mr. Everard Browne. After dinner
Wally actually sang comic ditties ! and Melba
crooned coon melodies.
“Lord Dick Nevill will find things tame when
Melba leaves Australia. He has skipped round
’most everywhere with the Diva, and so has little
Miss Clarke, the State Governor’s daughter. It
is understood that Wales tipped local Vice-
Regality, by cable, to ‘be nice ’ to the Star, and
our Powers-that-be soon saw that it was best to
‘ be nice ’ to the frolic warbler by proxies—young,
live proxies. Thereupon, the Gov.-General con-
tributed Lord Dick from his Household, as a sort
of Lord-in-waiting to attend Melba’s Royal Pro-
gress, while State Govt. House lent its ewe lamb
to play Maid-of-honor.
“Melba’s arrival at the Panto., Boxing night,
was made late and fussily. She fidgets on the
public’s side of the stage, a hundred times adjusts
her corsage, passes her hand to feel if her high-
jewelled choker is safe, presses in a hair-pin,
examines her fastenings, and all the while talks
and laughs. Commandant Hutton was in the
same box and was wreathed in smiles as he
enjoyed the Panto, fooling and Melba’s talk.
“Mrs. Robert Power is established as one of
Melba’s pals. This dame must have some subtle
charm the outsider cannot fathom. When the
cold countess of yore turned from all and shuther-
sejf ub in the Glass House on the Hill, Mrs. Power
was made an exception and had frequent private
confabs with her. Now, ’tis said, anything Mrs.
Power asks of Melba is granted. Worldly wit
and a fund of good humor are probably the secrets
of it all.
‘ ‘ Things grow beautifully simple for a woman.
The powder-chamois as a ’kerchief centre (invisible
to the Vandal eye) arrived long ago. The self-
threading needle is about to relieve her domestic
burdens; the magnetic scissors, that attracts
the lost needle, have arrived; and the newest
chain-purses contain secret pockets for the powder-
dab and the manicure pinker.
“ A great star at present shining in this part of
the globe is extremely economical. She sends all
her gloves to be cleaned regularly—which greatly
astonishes the aesthetic, who shudder at the
thought of an odour of benzine clinging to the
hands of the illustrious one.
“ Cinquevalli is the fond father of an only child,
an olive-skinned prattler of quaint mixed lingoes.
‘ Her Engleesh,’ says dad, ‘is top-dog in quantitee,
but for qualitee—goot Lords ! ’ The juggler’s wife,
who shares his travels, ‘ loves ’ Australia, but
adores America.
“ Others, besides the slow-moving English, feel
the pinch of German competition. Once upon a
time the Parisian jewellers made hacks of the
trinket-field, but lately a new style of jewellery
has won vogue. Gems are no longer arranged in
mathematical designs, but are set with an eye to
artistic effect. Jewelled flowers, with begemmed
petals and stems, are popular in the make-up of
a tiara, rather than stars or octagons. Hanging
drops are freely used to lessen the stiff solidity of
imposing trinkets. These jewels, the only sort of
gee-gaws saleable at present, are all coming from
Dusseldorf. Tne Parisians, when they awake to
the fact that styles have altered, will probably
beat the Germans in the chic elegance of their
work, but, by the time they get their eyes open,
another school of ornament may be imminent’
As for the Britishers, they don’t attempt to fight
the ‘furriners.’
“’Tis said we may not hope to keep Marshall
Hall much longer with us. At the time of the
spilt, three citizens (guessed to be Rupert
Clarke, Manager Musgrove, and Consul Pinschof)
guaranteed him a certain yearly salary, but his
present emoluments, nevertheless, are understood
to be out of keeping both with his abilities and his
ambition.
“ The tiny twin-babies who, for a time, tenanted
the Incubator at the Exhibition, are both dead
now, but the fact that one lived 10 days, and the
other 13, is counted a feather in the Incubator’s
cap, considering the physique of the ‘subjects.’
1 he purchase of one is advocated for the Women’s
Hospital, where frail infants have often to be
reckoned with. Two little strangers (not twins),
at present installed in the baby-oven at the Exhi-
bition, seem to be thriving splendidly.
“Without an incubator, it’s a pretty honeless
task try mg to save from extinction the faint snark
of hfe, flickering feebly in an under-vitalised
infant. 1 know an Irish granny, who always
becomes eloquent on the topic of one of these
weaklings a nurse-child of hers-who ceased to
exist (one can’t call it ‘living’) 40 years ago
Baby’s parents, Australian magnates, still well
to the fore, have reared a family of ten
since their frail first-born ceased to breathe (six
months after birth) so probably his memory is less
clearly defined in their minds at this time of day
than in that of his old nurse. ‘ The dharlin’ had
lived and grown old before iver it saw this life,’
says the old woman, ‘and thin, by some mis-
chance, it was hurried into this world before it
had time to put on its new babby-looks and get
fresh life in its veins, like the rist of us. There
wasn’t a drop of Oirish in the family, and they
called the child ‘Cecil,’or some such fan dangled
name, but I’m fit to swear he’d been
an Oirishman, where he _ kern f.'om. By
the doctor’s orders, I tuk him twice a day out
of his little bhaskit of cottonwool, standin’ on the
hob and rubbed him very gintly from scalp to
sole’ wid brandy and oil. Whin I’d be done, he’d
curl himself to slape paceiul, and dhrunk as a
lord. Knowin’ he was aisy and continted in his
mind, I’d whisper just as he was dozin’ off:
“Now, Mick, aren’t ye just as well plased here
as in County Clare?” Anny other time if you
asked him that, he’d whinge worse than iver, but
just after bein’ brandied, the cratur ’d answer
wid a satisfied wink. But his health never
improved on him, and in the end even the
shpirits couldn’t put much heart in him. The
day he wint there was niver a shmile on him
when I mintioned County Clare, and I knew thin
he was pinin’ to go back to it and wouldn’t be
after shtayin’ much longer wid us. He was
cowld, the poor cratur, before next rubbin’ time
kem round. The father and mother cried fit to
break their hearts over their ‘little Cecil,’ as they
called him, and mesilf roared and cried for pity of
thim, but under me shawl, I couldn’t begrudge
ould Mick gettin’ back to County Clare ! ’
“The Dowager of Cliveden only recovered from
one illness to become a victim to another—typhoid,
to the regret of her many sympathising friends.
“The rumor reaches Melbourne that the mas-
sive Emily Soldene prepares for a descent on
these parts, with the idea of settling down per-
manently. The last time Mme. Soldene visited
Sydney she found the plague in full blast. Emily,
though somewhat over seven, evidently did not
wish to die just then, so she instantly set sail again
for London, where, if we may judge from her
letters, her appetite and her drinkytite still con-
tinue good.
“ There was something of Quaker solemnity
about the ‘ Messiah ” congregation at the Melb.
Town Hall, this Goose-tide. Elderly couples
wearing an air of godliness—the kind that sits so
burdensomely on humble souls —mostly filled the
building, though here and there stray young
things whispered and giggled behind their bulky
sou ven ir programmes. Dolores was sweet to the eye
in cream—a soft, pretty, quaint-fashioned garb,
with rose-pink foot flounces suddenly foaming
from a demure cream layer of lace and jewelled
periods. Pink roses rested on the corsage between
cascades of lace, about which gems twinkled.
Dolores in oratorio is subtly beautiful. In her
dainty, gladsome delivery of ‘I Know that My
Redeemer Liveth,’ it seemed as if the singer
hugged the devotional thought, and sang into it
a subdued ecstacy.
“ The last of a long-established club of Melb.
Bohemian bachelors joined the great majority (in
the matrimonial ranks) a week or two back- —Mr.
Henry Cornish, who married a Windsor belle,
Miss Beatrice Gair.
“Maud Thornton took the Whittington role at
short notice, so they say, Rose Hamilton having
fallen ill. But the notice must have been long
enough to have her measured for her skin-tight
suits, as the garb designed for Rose would have
swallowed up her locum tenens. This suddenly-
launched star is slender and neat-ankled, and did
very well.
“Rupert Clarke has started off to try the
frigidity of a Siberian winter. By the same Jap
steamer that leads to the Russian route to England
travel two Melbourne women—Miss Chomley and
Miss Frances M'Millan—armed with easel and
camera, and hot-water bottles for the cold country.
“ She-students have done well this year at the
University. Miss Grata Matilda Greig passed
her fourth year Laws. In medicine and arts, pet-
ticoated competitors all did well. Most of these
budding blue-stockings revel in clarion names.
One —Miss Minnie Mabel Monica Hevington
Root—just escaped the Wyselaskie Scholarship
for Comparative Philosophy, being accorded
almost equal marks to the winner—Miss Alice
Maud Cuming. In music, the majority of suc-
cessful students are petticoated.
“ Some people are shocked that State Governor
Clarke cabled home congratulations from Vic-
torians on the birth of Wales’ ‘son,’instead of
‘on the prince.’ It’s by ways like these, say
critics of the message, ‘ that Australia gets her-
self disliked.’ Australians are vain; they would
even teach an English Governor how to be a better
snob.
“A certain beauty now on the ocean didn’t
burn her boats behind her; she left them
safely moored in Melbourne. At a swagger ‘At
Home,’ t’other night, one of the elderly late-comers
sauntered in, and after a few remarks to an
intimate circle, said with a conceited flourish that
7 was having a good time on board ship, and
was in excellent health and spirits. ‘Yes,’
chipped in an official sprig, ‘I was just telling
them she is having a royal time.’ ‘Oh!’ ex-
claimed the first speaker in surprise. ‘ Yes ; I had
a letter this morning,’ explained the second with
airy indifference. ‘ There are some friends of hers
joining the boat at Fremantle—so she said in the
letter to my brother,’ remarked a third person,
and then trie first two lost their starch ; there
was more than one monkey on the stick.
Yours affectionately,
AKENKHI.


“ Livery ’’—that word alone describes your miserable, sickly, stuffed-up state !
Look at your bilious face and dark-rimmed eyes. You have no appetite, no dash, no energy l
You are drowsy as a drone—too tired for work—too sick for sport!
You tried purgatives—and they left you worse than ever.
LlSten d a to nic—a tonic to brace up your liver and stimulate your system with fresh,
ke w-n Wil ! ia “ S ’ P^ k Pills for Pale People-the best blood-builder and nerve-tonic in the world
Di. Williams Pink Pills hll your veins with pure, rich blood.—They wake your liver up-They
make you healthy, bright and vigorous. P 7
Williams’ Pink Pttls Httle. Three Uoxes'of'Dr'^W^liams^Pin^pfll^' 6 of
my liver, and made me bright and energetic once more,” ' ' Plnk Pll]s enriched my blood, stimulated
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. Price, 2/9 ; six boxes 15/3, post free.
Caution. —See that the name Dr. Williams is on every box you buy.
m
sror
co
PERSONAL ITEMS.
T , rt f °. u to be spelt Justice Prynnge
hat suits his Honor’s mental age better.
Longstaff— a private letter from Earl
.eauchamp states—is at work on his portrait of
lung Edward for Australia. He was given a ‘‘ f a °f
1-lace at the Coronation service to get a sketch
Mr. J. R. Martin, late sec. to the Sydney
arbor Trust, has been appointed private secre-
ary to Munster Bill Lyne at .£450 a year. In a
"ord, the acute and pushful Mr. Martin is now
mahout to Australia’s political rogue-elephant
G. de Cairos Rego, who is writing a series
?£ musical articles for Sydney I) T u.
•’ U l e f t 0 be “"Sica 3 Trfti onVat°pa per 9
writer »a ghl n nmsician and a very clever
writer as well, he found AiNtm;. f y er
»ph»re. He should do better *
lhe late Henry Panmure Gordon the
Ked U tith° n A on t St , ockb ™ ker 80 intimately con-
nected with Australian financial interests after
*■“*
Campbell the Queensland railway-accident
±i'J“l,S U “ e K the darli "'i ° f “e staff at the
hospital where he was nursed for his sham
oushl^fn 8 ’ u ther P atients used to look envi-
tions 1^ rh,ls ‘ be f as flattered with sweet atten-
tions. how they re reckoning grimly that the
eraol-warders are not likely to bi so kind.
»n?ff d m ey \ gaudy mayor is , to put it mildly,
nffinf ? b e P° tentate - Strong-man Sandow had an
official welcome from him; now negro bicyclist
(and Sabbatarian— don’t forget the Sunday obser
vance in the advts.) Taylor is officially “ received ”
It will be Mick O’Stoush’s turn next when ho
ship of Pt°rmlnj. for heavy - wei S ht tampion-
A BLOKE QUESTION.
MISS MERINO (to Sam, the “ generally-useful ” boy
whom she is to take with her to Melbourne
to see his parents ): “Sam, papa says you
may come with me to Melbourne, so get
ready for to-morrow, and ”
SAM: “ Wot’s use me goin'; you're sure to have
some other bloke to tike you round there."
Capt. Wallmgton, when in Adelaide, was
asked to explain what are the exact duties of a
Grgojn of the Bedchamber to the Prince of Wales,
and how much such officials have to do with
warming-pans, nightcaps and shaving-water; but,
as befitted a high functionary of the State with
delicate and weighty responsibilities, he was
diplomatically reticent.
Writes General Evelyn Wood, concerning
a passage in Kruger’s memoirs :
Mr. Kruger writes I took him by the arm and asked
him not to be hasty. I reply : I saw Mr. Kruger then for
the first time. I did not take him by the arm. As Mr.
Kruger did not change his clothes night or day, and
economised soap, close proximity to him was unpleasant.
Which certainly makes picturesque history.
Sydney’s Lieutenant-Colonel Lassettah,
who is training the manhood of Australia for the
martial field in his ironmongery and grocery and
drapery emporium, takes a leaf out of John
Norton’s book in his advertising. Thus—
ST. JOHN’S DAY,
December 27,
LASSETTERS ARE CLOSED.
In the characteristically senseless proceed-
ings of the undergrads, at Adelaide ’Varsity
Commemoration there was one flash of humor.
For his profound ignorance of law they admitted
Bigjohn Forrest to the LL.D. degree; and Big-
john turned up in the correct crimson to receive
the little Chancellor’s butter. “Who’s this?”
yelled one. “Oh! that’s Little Red Riding
Hood ” another answered promptly.
Some of the world is wide still. A local
committee, which advertised the other day for a
doctor for Boulia, was able to hold out this
glittering inducement—“No medical man within
200 miles !’’ Yet the doctor who gets the job will
not hold the Australian record, which probably
belongs to Dr. Seabrook, Govt, medical officer in
the N. Territory, and, in its earlier days, lecturer
at Adelaide Medical School. His nearest pro-
fessional neighbor is a good 600 miles off.
t De Rougemont’s name is to be handed
down to posterity in the new edition of Cassell’s
Encyclopaedic Dictionary
Itouge-mon-tade (g as zh) t s. [formed on analogy’ with
rhodomontade. (See def.)] The claim to have done
certain things which exist only in the relater’s imagina-
tion. The word is derived from a person calling himself
de Rougemont, who in 1898 claimed to have lived for
years among the aborigines of Australia, and to have had
Wonderful adventures.
Examples of the use of the word are quoted from
the Daily Chronicle :
In a colonial Parliament the other day, one member
accused another ©f “ talking political Jtiougemontade
and the Speaker d*es not appear to have cried “ Order,
order.”
From a recent speech by Cardinal Moran:
branohca fJ, ,sen ° e j l n England he had heard that some
brancnes of the Methodists or Wesleyans—he did not
n " W tS a th , ey called themselves—had decided to unite
among themselves, and form one common body. Perhaps
deaToldChorrh 3 th f, l rSt Step towards tfoing back to the
aear old Church, and becoming united to her.
It is this clumsy and witless “humor” that riles
other sects. The Cardinal knows quite well what
Q hT y Ca l th ?“ s elves,” also that there is not the
shadow of an idea in the Methodist Union move-
ment of a Romeward progress. His affectation of
contemptuous ignorance is, presumably, intended
to be funny. But it isn’t-only silly.
In Melb. Hekald, July 5, ’75, appeared a
column advt. from Book Arcade Cole, the even
Wi£ oZ ment bookseller, headed, “Wanted a
Wife, £2O reward.” Then followed description of
oman wanted. Must be “a spinster, sober,
honest, chaste, intelligent, cleanly, industrious,
neat in dress, good-tempered, frugal, moderately
J' ate . d ' f° nd ° f borne.” Then in issue,
dated Aug. 9 75: Cole-Jordan-On Aug. 7, at
Kll ; da ’ b y Rev - J- K. Gregory,
Edward William Cole, of the Book Arcade,
ourke-st., to Eliza Frances, youngest daughter
or Mr. Charles Jordan, Newtown, Tasmania. All
correspondents are respectfully requested to ac-
cept this as a final answer to their communica-
tions on the subject.”
,P. r - Cockburn, ex-Premier of S.A., has
obtamed another London directorship, this time
or the it. S. and A. Bank, which will pay better
than some of the institutions he is asso-
ciated with. A title in London is always to be
re led upon, if its holder behaves himself, as a
source of income, and the Dr. has been strongly
advised to set up a brass plate in a fashionable
quarter of London and start practice as a consult-
ing surgeon. “ They will think you were knighted
tor medical prowess,” is the explanation for this
suggestion But, strange to say, Dr. Cockburn,
although he keeps himself abreast of modern
developments in medicine and surgery, has little
enthusiasm for the profession which brought him
S* A ICI a ai '®’ e * ncome during his earlier career in
A com ical feature of Vic. Assembly is
Minister Bent’s “ bob ” when leaving the
chamber. The bow-windowed representative
of Brighton waddles like a Christinas goose
from the end Ministerial seat to the gangway,
stops, slowly faces round, ducks his head, faces
right about and waddles out.
A Victorian Radical ” sends The
Bulletin a bit of social history:
In connection with Mr. J. E. Mackey’s politics, be
they right or wrong, it has been thrown up against
him by the Labor party that, when conducting the
historical Marshall-Hall case, h e showed sagacity
but ‘ funk.” This is such a gross injustice to Mr.
Mackey that the peculiarities of the particular in-
stance ought to be known now, since their publicity
can no longer injure the case. I believe, up to now,
details have been kept secret, but they will, I am
sure, much interest you. The Bulletin commented
at the time on the Hall party’s seeming “cave-in.”
Now, the reason of this was not, as everyone natu-
rally supposed, a flinching on the part of Marshall-
Hall and counsel, but the sudden and appalling dis-
covery that the Prof, had been illegally appointed,
and, therefore, not appointed at all ; therefore had
no case against anybody for wrongful dismissal or
damages. This was the written opinion of two most
eminent counsel. Imagine w'hat a hole plaintiff was
in as far as the fight was concerned ! Happily the
Council never found this out until Mr. Hall’s suc-
cessor, Prof. Peterson, was appointed. At the time
or this slap-down blow Mackey pointed out to the
Hall party that they must either stop fighting, and
simply haul down the flag, or lie by and await
developments, meanwhile harassing the enemy as
far as possible. Mr. Hall instructed him, what-
ever happened, to fight it out as best he could to
the end. How marvellously he engineered the whole
thing, which would have been a victory all along
the line, but for th§ cowardice of one man—only
i " as " een a wonder ever since to those in
iiu The subsequent dishonorable behaviour
of the. Council shows how they would have caught
at their chance had they discovered it before. But,
as you see, the Hallites were not funking, quite the
contrary—they were on one end of a plank, and
the enemy only had to withdraw his feet and dow n
they would have gone. The first Ormond prof,
was by statute elected for five years ; the second
for life. But Marshall-Hall, who was both first and
second, was limited in each case to five years.
Thus the second election, being contrary to statute,
was null and void.
Writes “ An Envious Holy Roman ” :
°L° f E ‘ Bisho P Mercer is a reduced edition
of Bisliop Moorhouse, of Manchester, from whose diocese
arhVio 8 fh 0I ? e ‘ Jai ? e ® Manchester” knew the sort of
arHde that wu wanted out here, and sent a man who
nasn t an atom of cant or affectation about him—who in
short, w a man Except in the pulpit, he seldom speaks
o religion. He makes a capital platform speech in a
pleasant, natural Lancashire voice, every sentence having
force and meaning, and frequently humor. But “John
Edmond Tasmania ” won’t write that name long. He’ll
be made to change it, but he won’t go “ Home ” like
Bromley, Sandford, and Montgomery. When there’s a
first-class episcopal billet in Australia, he’ll be grabbed
ior it. He s a poet, and writes sonnets on Greek sub-
jects, but he s not afraid to talk straight. The other
night, he told Tas. Royal Society that Hobart was the
stinkingest city he ever smelt, except Cologne ; and when
the N.-W. potato-farmers blathered to him about the
dmn d it U nnri P i art <. 0 £ the c ? untr - v ' he told them to
altogether H’* ab ° Ut Tasmania ’ “ which wasn’t much
THE MISANTHROPE WITH THE BUMPER.
“Say, Bill, why don't yer get a girl?”
“Dunno — don’t want one.”
“Don’t yer! W'y, I'm never ’appy ’less I'm cartin’ round
some blessed woman er other.”
N.S.W. “Liberal and Reform Party ”
t.e., the gang led by Mr. J. H. Carruthers, which
as it can t get into John See’s Ministry, wishes to
make a Ministry of its own—has appointed Mr.
n/r tt" 16 i “®’ ns l° w as its organising secretary.
Mr. Hanslow is a long, lean gentleman of mourn-
ful aspect and great energy. He entered public
life first by acting as secretary to the Church of
itngland cemetery at Rookwood ; and, judging
from his present occupation, he still takes a
professional interest in corpses.
Premier Seddon of Maoriland was under-
stood- a good many months ago, to proudly reject
the cash testimonial which was offered him and
to smite his chest with great fervor, saying' that
Virtue was its own Reward. But his admirers
went on collecting all the same, and when £B7O
was tendered the other day at Wellington Richard
of Kumara submitted quietly, like a lamb led to
the cash-box. Similar cheques are ready for
presentation at Auckland, Christchurch and
Dunedin, and Premier Seddon is going to accept
them all. \ irtue is its own reward in a sense
but cash is a deal better after all.
Vic. Minister of Public Works Taverner
is an inveterate “ practical joker,” and Premier
Irvine never sits down to preside over the Cabinet
•without first making sure chat Taverner has not
placed a bent pin on the chair. Years back, when a
member of Turner’s team, Taverner left a Cabinet
meeting temporarily to see a fellow-member, and
was standing on the landing when there came a
Chinaman selling soap. Disclaiming any desire
for the article himself, Mr. Taverner said : “Mr.
Turner, in that room, was just asking me where
he could get some soap.” Remarking “Welly
good, ' John marched into the Cabinet room and
proceeded to lay out his wares on the table. It
was probably the first time a Chinaman' had
attended an Australian Cabinet meeting.
Henry Lawson writes re that fall of his
Had a fall a week or two back—it wasn’t the first.
~° me Boft., some 90, and one man swore it was 100.
111 settle that with a tape measure and the help of the
man who picked me up—and another to hang on to my
coat-tail—when I get on my feet again. Fell sheer, as
far as I remember, and the condition of my clothes bears
this out—coat and waistcoat all right, pants torn a little
at knee and foot of one leg, one boot “ bust.” Landed
between jagged rocks on bed of sand—or sand and rubble.
Broke ankle and lost an eyebrow. (Pipe, tobacco and
matches safe.) Don’t remember whether there was a trust
of wind against the cliff at the time—if so, the air thrown
upwards might have helped me. Had whisky on board
and may have taken no particular interest in the matter
after I slipped and have fallen limp. Heard or read
somewhere that the first instinct of hurt animals is to
crawl away and hide themselves. I distinctly remember
when I found myself alive, trying to crawl in under a
shelf of rock with a wild idea of hiding. Attempt frus-
trated by one Sly, a fisherman, the burthen of whose
song, to the top of the cliff, was “ You’re a lucky man f
By *.7J7 you are a luck y man ! ” “ How do you make that
out ? I asked at last. “ Well, what more do you want? ”
he demanded. This was unanswerable. (Re the hiding
Ive been seldom sick in my life, and then I always
wanted to get away and be quiet, and not messed about)
Was helped, not carried, to top of cliff. Talked all the
time, but don’t think Sly or the policeman sent for under-
stood me. Have often met people who didn’t understand
me. When I was leaving the casualty ward of Sydney
Hospital—which chamber of horrors I shall always re-
member kindly—l shook hands with a boy who’d had
some toes cut off—a manly little fellow—and he said:
“ Good-bye, Mr. Lawson, better luck next time ! ” It
sounded very funny to me.
4
Queensland artesian bores, up to date
would cover an area of 787 sq. miles, or 500 000
acres, to the depth of Ift. The 934 bores in exis-
tence aggregate about 215 miles, and their daily
flow totals 375 million gallons.
Senator Gould, of N.S.W.,
has always had wonderful luok!
Starting as a struggling solicitor
he rapidly acquired an excellent
practice. He then graduated to
Parliament and was appointed
Minister for Justice. Defeated as
a btate member he was soon re-
turned as a Senator. He made a
big pile as one of the fortunate
Ureat Cobar tributors. Old Hunter
residents ascribe his good luck to
the tender care he took of his old
blind father (also a solicitor) whom
he used to lead about.
The succession of F W
Ward to Henry Gullett as editor
°f .. pydney Daily Telegraph
strikingly illustrates the difficulty
there is in finding suitable men for
the high positions in Australian
journalism. It is 12 years ago since
Messrs. Gullett and Ward left the
lelegraph in wrath and anger
and now the paper has had each
back as editor. When Melb. Argus
was looking for a successor to
Howard Willoughby, translated to
the editor s chair, Ward was about
the only eligible candidate as
leader - writer. Newspaper pro-
pnetors have to blame themselves
only, for the conditions and chances
confronted by the average youthful
journalist are all against him blos-
soming into a top-notcher in the
profession. Melb. Argus will be
as much worried to find a successor to the mer-
indefatigable Ward as the Telegbaph
was to get another editor.
Although J. FL Angas, the S.A. mil-
lionaire, who is now nearly 80, has recovered
rom his recent attack of appendicitis, he is still
very fccWe and is likely to be a confirmed invalid
for the rest of his life. His father-George Fife
hsherf t^ C f)! ed U i the . b !% ,ra Phy written and pub-
S tbe order of his son, “the Founder of
houth Australia, lived to past 90, while both his
sisters were over 80 when they died. Each of the
!rf d ™™ eft considerabl y °ver a quarter of a million
Seamen’s wages difficulty in Australia has
redncHnff y SBttled ’ - the men accepting a
i f ° r present s lf the Australian Par-
liament gives adequate protection to the shipping
go up again t mS betterS conditions wages are to
NO USE FOR REGGIE.
GINGER (to stranger) : “Eh, younk, what’s yer
name?”
STRANGER : “I’m called Reggie."
GINGER: “Aw, chuck it! I mean what's yer
nick-name?”
N.S.W. Statistician Coghlan’a “Seven
Colonies of Australasia” (why not “Seven
States?”) for 1902 is to hand. Every time this
volume comes to hand it shows an improvement
until it has become about the most comprehen-
sive, lucid, and closely condensed work of its
land on earth. It covers almost every sub-
ject from the first beginnings of Australasian
history down to the last 2d. in the latest Austra-
lasian deficit. Very few statisticians in this world
have carried the art of being condensed, correct
and comprehensive further than Coghlan. In this
respect, at all events, Australia is well up in
the van of the world’s progress, and so far
as statistics are concerned, Coghlan is Australia,
it is necessary to compare the “ Seven Colonies ”
with say the “ Statistical Abstract of the United
i. 1 - 1 i Oj™ a m P volume in a faint blue cover
which deals with about one-tenth of the subjects
A° g ATo ,?r ove I s ~ to understand the full value of
the N.S.W. official’s work.


“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.’’
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Tha Lancet.
GO TO HELI
JfiOliAMl) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
L
w
H
S
K
V
• •
K uppers Elberfeld Lager
The Genuine Linen Mesh
Underwear has arrived!
THE DR. BEIMEL LINEN MESH SIHCLETS PANTS
SSSSL,"SI‘ - th. «x«, „* 10/8
ashion \Y oollen Garments. It does not become clammy or matted in 6^ 8 en ° rmous advantages over the old-
matena l hoever heard of wiping one’s hands on a woollen 9 w? r ' J s more abs °rbent than any other
givmg off moisture? IT NEVER SHRINKS. Ask for descrioHve ,Jn, J h’,^ en V the bod >’ which is constantly
„„„ Mercers throughout the Commonwealth Pt pa naphl e t, obtainable at all leading Men’s
ROCHUSSEN BROS., 305.7 F.inders Lane. Me.bourl
-ittiii in, .BBarm, n ——Sydney ; Charles St., Adelaide.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. — In the case of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
The Aluneds and Mahomets who smell of
camels and have lately been growing fat, while
the rest of the people out West have been growing
more like their own sapless native mulga, don’t
praise Allah for the break-up of the drought:
In extreme cases while here and there the tracks were
cursed with dry stages Mahomet was able to command up
to half-a-crown per ton per mile for “loading.” Now,
starting off the same mark as the bullock-punching
Australian, he is whining round for business down
to Bd, and will go lower than that if necessary.
As the white far-back teamster reckons Is. all
round a fair thing, this new competition will
probably squeeze him badly—and there are few
men up and down Australia who can less afford any more
squeezing than the teamster out in the mulga. There
isn’t a class that lives a harder life ; there aren’t many
who, year in and year out, earn less. The situation is
worse for him, because the camel-boss must, keep going.
Unlike the teamster, he cannot go station-contracting,
which is the “ bullocky’s” sheet-anchor when “ loading ”
is scarce. Neither the poor brown wretches who
trudge mechanically alongside their mechanical-looking
brutes, nor the mechanical-looking brutes themselves, are
good for anything but carrying; and, as the brown
attendant is under contract, he and the team have to be
kept moving at some price. So the white teamster’s
struggle for his damper is going to he very hard indeed.
And it is not the camel that is to blame half as much as
the unspeakably cheap (and then often cheated) brown
person, imported in most cases under contract.
* • » *
A Queensland missionary, lately from IN ew
Guinea, tells of a queer custom among certain
Papuan peoples. If a Wedan man departs on a
canoe journey to a distant place, his wife is
supposed to fast till he returns. On bis
return she rushes down the beach and
into the water to welcome
him. Presumably she only
fasts within certain limits,
else she would be altogether
missing when the old man
comes back, but'the fasting
is said to be pretty rigorous.
If the Papuan house-father
doesn’t find a reasonable
amount of emaciation about
the lady who greets him on
his return he becomes a prey
to suspicions almost as dark as
herself.
The aborigine can still give his white
brother a long start in foretelling floods. Some
days before the recent rains on the Darling the
blacks retreated to the hills in anticipation of a
“big feller come down.” They did the same
thing before last big flood. They judge prin-
cipally by the movements of insects, particularly
ants.
i • * • »
Throughout the Mallee, and the barren
areas of N. Y*ic. hope springs in the settlers’
breasts, for have not certain medical almanacs,
which are selling like seed wheat, predicted rain
liberally for nearly every month next year (’O3),
with floods at intervals ! Cookie has more faith
in his almanac than in his Bible nowadays.
• * • *
“ P-X.” : Be the yarn (B. 20/12/’O2) about
the Mallee ducks having to be thrown into the
water as they didn’t know what it was. That
Mallee duck-farmer will know better next time;
for those ducks died before Christmas. Ducks do
pretty well out in the dry places till it comes to
rain; when that accident happens they take to
the water and double up with cramp. Then it’s
safest to have duck for dinner for a few days.
* * * *
The boss of one far-western station (Poola-
macca) drove in through the dust to Broken Hill
to arrange about getting bis household in—the
last of the water even in the homestead tanks was
gone. And about the first news that struck him
was that the homestead was under water, and
that the dams were giving way, and that a torrent
3ft. deep was flowing through his house.
“When <1 big rain is magnified under
glaring head-lines in the daily press,” writes
“ Donald,” “ it’s amusing to read of all the tanks
being filled to overflowing.” Sounds well enough
to city folks, but the way-backer, who has climbed
trees to locate said tanks 50yds. away, grins
thoughtfully. Many Vic. cockies cart water a
good third of any year, and-some only cease when
crab-holes and wheel-ruts get a drop in. Ihe
average selection frog-hollow contains rand washed
in since Genesis, and cockies continue to dig out
the bogged cow, the ewes and lambs, and the dis-
tressed plough-horse, just out of the chains, the
shower that fills a cookie’s dam isn’t necessarily a
huge affair.
* * * *
The Arunta up near Alice Springs,
in Centralia, had a great rain-making ceremony ;
and the rain came. That’s the advantage of
making your priest study meteorology a bit he
knows when to say no to your request for rain-
prayers, and when to say yes. Down South the
sorry mistake is made of not including this in the
course of study.
* * *
“Ses ” : Be reflection of moon in mirror.
“Saltpetre ” (8., 20/12/’O2) wonders how his small
glass is going to accommodate 20. There will be
no call upon it to do so, as after the fifth night only
one clear disc is shown. Common bush custom,
on sighting new moon, to hold glass to it to ascer-
tain what night it came in.
. . • *
“K.L.” inquires :
Oan any “ Aboriginalities ’’ authority detail the fir it
symptoms of a bite from a death-adder ? The dry weather
is making these dangerous reptiles appear where hitherto
they have been unknown. Recently a boy on the
Hawkesbury River found one on the step of a back door.
The adder scuttled past
him, but was promptly
followed up and killed.
The lad, aged 10, was
anxiously questioned,but
was quite certain he
had not been bitten.
He went to bed un-
concernedly. About
an hour afterwards
he began to vomit,
and died in an-
other 30 minutes.
If there were any
symptoms pre-
vious to the
vomiting there
was no one
present who
could recog-
nise them.
And it is still
an open ques-
tion whether he was
bitten, or whether he
died from some other
cause.
AFTER XMAS.
“I know why Santa Claus
didn't leave anything, father.”
(No answer.) “'Cos we hadn't any stockings
to hang up.”
Old Tolinie had had the mail contract
between the end of the railway and the Sandy
Waterholes for years, and had never made any-
thing much out of it beyond bread and beer and
rheumatism. Then in the course of his solitary
hundred-mile drive an idea struck Tolmie. No-
body was likely to have a genuine “cut” at his
God (and man) forsaken line ; so he would put up
his price a hundred and get all the “sports” he
knew to do the rest. And that’s how it was that,
when the tenders were opened away down in the
city, where they know everything, there was un-
precedented competition for the Sandy Water-
noles contract; and Tolmie managed to squeeze
in just below them all at .£lOO ahead of the old
price.
• • • *
Harry Stockdale ; When an Australian
black is snake-bitten, he immediately sits down
and puts on all the pressure he can with both
thumbs around the wounded part, forcing out the
blood and a good deal of the poison with it. This
is continued until no more blood will come ; then
the wound is sucked and scarified with live
embers. On the Upper Murray bandages of
heated kangaroo-skin are applied in addition. If
the patient shows no bad symptoms after about
an hour of this treatment, he is considered well
out of danger. The aborigine particularly dreads
the deaf-adder, a wound from the tail-spur of
which he considers to be as deadly as its bite. By
the way, I have never personally known an
aborigine to die of snake-bite.
TAKING NO RISKS.
DICK : “ Refused fencin', did he? Well. what kind of a job is he lookin' for?”
PETER : “ Ring-barking thistles! ”
An urgent letter from Cue (W.A.)
Dear B.When travelling in the back blocks of Westra-
lia an argument was started on the question, Can ama
forget more than he ever learnt? and a great difference
,f opinion existed amongst those present. I would like
» hear the opinion of some of your contributors in the
i olumn of “ Aboriginalities on the subject.—Yours etc.,
I lay Be.
Presumably, in addition to what a man has
learned, he knows some things without learning
them—knows them by inherited instinct. Ine
dislike to snakes and Chinamen comes into the
latter category. And when a man is dead he
(presumably) forgets all the things he
learned and also the things he knew with-
out learning them—his knowledge, instincts,
hereditary tendencies, and all the rest. _ oo if he
can be fairly called a man when he is dead (a
matter which may also be argued), then the (ques-
tion can be answered in the affirmative. Ihe
Bulletin didn’t know that people struggled with
abstruse questions like this _in Westralia; it
thought Westralia spent all its time trying to
float the sinkable variety of cat, and admiring the
Six Families.
At Carlton (Vic.) police-court the
owner of a cow was prosecuted for cruelty.
The cow was discovered in the sale-yards
over-stocked with milk. On it being
examined, it was found that the owner, to
get a better price for the animal, bad
sealed its teats with collodion !
* • * •
“ D.H.R.” : Nothing unusual in
scrub-wallaby resorting to hollow log for
shelter (“Mark M.,” B. 4/10/’O2). They
always do this in rainy or cold weather.
Indeed, they often make a log a regular
camp, sometimes a number of them to-
gether.
* * • •
“Te Whai ” : I have discovered a
new use for cigarette-wrappers. You know
the pink outside covers of “Vanity Fair”?
Well, if you wet them, the color comes off.
The bush-girls know this, and the demand
for covers of this brand on a bush-“ darnce ”
night (rouge being unobtainable in the back-
blocks) would surprise many of their town
sisters. The Maori girl uses nature’s paint,
viz., flax-bloom, and a very pretty effect it
has on a young girl. Of course, in winter,
she has to go without.
* * * *
“D.H.R.” : Be the fattening pro-
perties of sugar. I have often been told
by sugar-growers and others that every
animal that lives on the sugar-cane farm,
with the single exception of the cat, ac-
quires the habit of chewing the cane. The
consequence is that they are all, bar the cat,
almost too fat to walk about. This applies
even to dogs. As for the lone, unfriended
cat, meat being generally scarce, she looks a
walking misery by comparison with her hog-
like associates.
• * » *
The students in the wool-sorting
classes of Adelaide School of Mines and In-
dustries dealt with the fleeces of over 250,000
sheep this season, and a prominent squatter
asserts that, owing to the better classing of
the wool by them, the growers realised at least
.£6OOO extra at the recent sales. That is more than
the whole subsidy given by the State to the insti-
tution, which practically owes its existence—and
certainly its present prosperity—to editor Bony-
thon, its president.
* * • •
Claimed by a S.A. farmer that native
chicory makes excellent fodder. Regarding it as
a pest (as all his neighbors have done), he
ploughed it up; but the sheep that were then
turned on to the land ate it, leaves and roots, and
thrived.
“ Peraw ” :
Re the natatory
rabbit (“Alone,”
8., 29/11/’O2).
Near Green Is-
land, Otago, I
have seen rabbits
repeatedly take
to the water and
swim a consider-
able distance be-
fore being caught
by the dogs. But
on the other
hand, I have seen
flood - trapped
bunnies allow
themselves to be
killed rather than
venture into the
water.
* *
Be the rabbit’s
swimming
powers (‘ ‘Alone, ”
8., 29/11/702) I
was surprised to
learn that it is
“nob generally
known that
bunny is a capi-
tal swimmer.” I
used to have
great sport hunt-
ing rabbits on
the small islands, formed by flood waters, in our
river Glenelg, (Western Vic.), and often when
we thought we had bunny cornered he would
plunge into the stream and cross to the main-
land. Sometimes the “islands” would be-
come entirely submerged and the rabbits
thereon, after huddling together as long as a dry
spot remained, would at last “swim out.” With
a few more years like 1902, however, bunny will
forget all he has learnt about swimming— for want
of water to practise in !
• * * *
Says Eketahuna (M.L.) Express
An old pack-horse belonging to a settler in Eketahuna
district committed suicide the other day in a most
deliberate and determined manner. The animal was
discovered in a pool of water, apparently quite recon-
c'l dto his fate, and looking very tired of life. When an
attempt was made to drive him out, he placed his head
under water, and kept it there until life was extinct.
This iilcident is vouched for by persons whose veracity
we would not think of doubting.
* * • •
“ H.S.” : The Australian blackfellow has
remarkable fasting powers. A couple of days’
abstinence from food is not considered worth
mentioning, and a whole week’s fast during very
A MINING PROPOSITION.
UNDERGROUND BOSS (to the new English manager):
“We shall soon want a winze down from
the level.”
MANAGAH: “ Very well; shall I send to London
for one, or shall we be able to get it in
Melbourne? ”
bad weather is patiently endured—the natives,
during this time, huddling together in the best
shelter procurable. Much grumbling and tighten-
ing of belts is about all the exertion the nig. is
capable of at suoli times— i.c., of course, in his
nearly-wild state.
* * * *
A pub.-keeper in Echuca (Vic.) district is
rarely known to speak to his family or employees.
He merely whistles. His children know when
he wants them, by his variations, and his men can
tell whether they are to chop wood, milk the cow,
or come-an’-’ave-a-nip ”by the variations he puts
into his tootle.
“A POOR MAN’S FIELD."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ My experience of a poor man’s goldfield has ever been
this : That you come there poor, and leave it a darned
sight poorer. And, if you’re fool enough to hang on, it’ll
take all sorts of care to keep you poor all the days of your
life.”— Gilrooney’s Mate.
See, they come with their bundles and bags
In a silent procession of rags
To the field of which newspapers speak
As “ a living and something a week.”
You may follow the rainbows of earth
Till your death from the day of your birth,
But the saddest of sorrows we know
Is to go where the “ stony-brokes ” go,
And seek the Contentment of Life
With your dreams of a home and a wife—
Where the joys of existence are sure
For a digger—although he be poor.
Yea, they hustle each other and throng
As we watch them go marching along.
Ah, they come with their bundles and bags,
But they leave it in nothing but rags !
GILROONEY.


Gerebos Salt
contains the life-giving, health-sustaining,
phosphates of Wheaten Bran (absent from
White Bread) necessary to build up sound
Teeth and Bones in the young, and to main-
tain blood, brain, and nerve force in the grown-
up. Cerebos Salt is used like common salt.
From Grocers and Stores,
Wholesale Agents;—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, w. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
RINGS
LADIES’ RINGS
ENGAGEfIENT RINGS
DRESS RINGS
Half-Hoop Diamond Ring,
From £5 ss.
Every kind of Gem Ring we make on the premises.
Why do vre trouble to do this ? BECAUSE
We save our customers 25 per cent, of middlemen’s profits.
We buy the gems unset in quantities and at the lowest prices.
We have old world ring-makers who do the finest of fine work.
GEM RINGS.
All Diamonds .. from £5 ss.
Diamond and Sapphire „ £3 3s.
Diamond and Ruby ~ £3 3s.
Fairfax & Roberts,
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
“E.S.S.” : R e snakes (B 7 27/12/’O2). All
Platitude’^ ke t 0 water -> d “ Boko’s ”
Ster the h T a l n * Seen thera do 80 doesn’t
s ake whi h'\ l. haV , e Seen even the salt-bush
freelv Tn r lnbabl , ts Itl,e 1 tl,e aiad deserts, disporting
brown hi,h? 11 ™^ 0 ’ 63 -, Krefffc mentions the
as heimr ded anak ® and the large-scaled snake
as bung particularly fond of water. In the
occurs* 1 - “ A t n ry °i p. IGG, this statement
even ivb 4“ snakes have a fondness for water,
on page 173 n a 3 W< S aS f ? r drinkin »’.” A & ak '>
number* 3# ' all snakes can swim, and a
number of so-called water-snakes do not live in
tut element but only take to it in pursuit of
!' I )rey ' d he black, whip, and both varieties
)rown and green, can swim long distances
Zf r wate r- (2). “Boko” says: “No snake
was ever yet known to eat dead tack.”
e /mo authorities can undeceive him on
,* afc , P° lnt ; and I’ve known carpet and
diamond snakes to pick up dead kittens and
young possums. Krefft says': “Snakes feed
most y on living animals ’’—which about hits the
mark, Ut course, some feed only on eggs, others
almost entirely on ants—as the so-called blind
snakes (-Typhlops). As to eels leaving water and
crawling about in marginal mud : I have witnessed
rk S u n T_-f° ad da yhg.ht on Dawson River (Q.); but
the habit is mostly in evidence at night-time.
“ F.F.” writes :
The Victorian railway department allows a free pass for
every truck in a starving-stock train, so when cockie ha*
six trucks of “starving stock” going practically free, ha
and five of his friends travel “on the nod.” Saw quite a
picnic-party t’other day on one of those trains. Prime
ham and other choice edibles, with the best of Castle-
mame ale to wash them down. And when the unfortu-
nate porter, who is battling to keep a wife and family on
f ° r , ’ bs - a week, went to check their passes, he' was
told he had a fine job,” and jocularly informed by the
ueim leads that Tommy Bent was the man to keep him
m his place.
* * * *
“ Buzz ” (who is of the sex feminine) sends
this, on blush-pink paper, as an evidence of the
special casualness and Arcadian simplicity of the
bucolic Australian :
In the days when I sought and found strange adven-
-ni.reu’ was lny ited to visit an outlying poultry-faim.
the house was a hut of two rooms, and the family num-
bered five. When six o’clock came, I was told that there
would not be another train before 2.22 a.m. “ But, sure,
we 11 be able to put you up fine, if you don’t mind rough-
ing and crowding a bit.” Of course, I didn’t mind; it
was all in the day’s adventure, besides, it was
a case of “ needs must.” So I settled down to a
game of draughts with the old man. At nine o’clock, or
thereabouts, I was told it was bed-time, and with my
hostess went to the inner room. Having disrobed to my
one garment (the family didn’t run to lending linen), I
was told to crawl “up along there.” Up along there was
the inside of the family four-poster, between which and
the wall a sofa had been pushed for my accommodation,
there being but one set of bed-clothes available. Being
of philosophical mind I made myself happy, and watched
the family join me one by one. Next to myself came
?. K lr J ot 18, then one of 14 (a boy of 11 took
the foot), the mother followed, putting the light
out first. I must have dozed off till awakened by
the opening of the door. It was the old man, and h *
DRY GIN.
began to disrobe. In the subdued light from a full moon,
shining through an undraped window, I could see his
long legs as he flung his garments over the top of the
bedstead, and then, with great care, manipulated himself
into the outside place next the old woman. One long,
strong pull on the bed-clothes, which left me minus any,
and the boss of that household was in bed. Towards two
o’clock a voice from the shadows inquired in anxious
tones “Say, Missus, d’ye think them turkeys ’ll lay again
this yearl breathed hard in the hope of peace, or the
waking of Madame to play propriety ; but the query
was repeated, and I knew that the master of the house
expected an answer. “ Oh, yes, I expect so,” I replied ;
for the next half-hour the old man argued with
me about the merits and demerits of every variety of
poultry known, while the family slumbered snorefully.
Towards morning my host once more composed
himself to rest, after advising me to “rake a haul”
on the bedclothes if I wanted any. At daylight the
amily got up in sections, the old man arising first and
conveying his gear into the next room to put it on, till
only I and little Jim were left in possession of the family
o oh. Then I, too, arose, and fled per first train.
IN PUSH SOCIETY—AT THE PICNTC.
EXCITED LIZ: “Hi, Bitty, Billy! That [?] [ ?] Ther says I ain't a lydy. Came am,’ com
his garret in.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
A o liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case unit MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
O.J. : General Hutton evidently believes that
Minister Forrest and the Australian Parliament only exist
to register and confirm his decrees—
Theirs not to reason why,
Theirs but to vote Supply,
Tennyson would have put it.. ..Answers : What’s your
idea ? Hard enough to find room to reply to genuine
correspondents without publishing the Jcol. dull “ fakes’
which you send in F.W.S.O. :No hope for a bush
Story which gets off “ vernacular ” in the first line and
“dual vocation” in the second W.H.R.: Skilfully
treated, but all the same it’s only a nice little very-
English-prig-scboolboy’s yarn with a very stale tag
L.O. : There’s only one Australian newspaper that can
decently say a good word for that politician and that’s the
paper which would glorify a cannibal if he koo-tooed to
the Cardinal H. : Surely nobody of literary taste has
ever classed Thackeray as a one-book author. 1 ‘ Pen-
dennis” was an improvement on “Vanity Fair.”
E.A.A.: We (i.e., The Bulletin) don’t claim to be “ in-
tellectual,” or “patriotic,” or “discerning," or “taste-
ful,’ or “good-natured,” or anything else, except—well,
We Are Sixpence weekly. You pay your money and
form your own opinion Tent: You ask us to defend a
married man of 35 who runs away with a girl of 16 The
man knows too much and the girl too little ; what happens
to him when he acts in that way is his own funeral
Belt : You only cease to be tiresome by becoming loath-
some.... 8.0. : Really, the most primitive poet we’ve
struck for a month... .J.F. : Pin your stamps to your
copy. Letters get lost in the heap J.O.W. : Consider-
uig.... Berthe: Good points ; too much girl-amateur in it.
Tie up your loose emotion ; tone down your high keys •
and write more crisply... .R.R.: Good yarn ;be brief....
i, Se , nd alon & for inspection your rhyme “ dealing
with all the phases and central ideas of civilisation—
drink, prostitution, smoking, evolution of love, trans-
fusion of blood, and bush experiences.” A promising bill
of fare ! J.G.W. : The difficulty of distinguishing in
Answers to Correspondents” between you (who are not
always having your copy rejected) and another J.G.W.
(who is) seems almost insuperable. Couldn’t you change
your name to, say, Horace Parnassus ; there’s no one of
that name having stuff rejected just now R_S. :We
don t take “ syndicate ” matter ; and “ Life and Laughter
in London” doesn’t interest us at all W.H.D. :
We’re always rather reluctant to cry out for “ more pun-
ishment” ; on the facts, as published, it is not quite cer-
tain that to do so in the case you mention would be just.
••--Robert W. : Yes, Australia is “a portion of the
British Empire,” but not so much so that it can’t keep
out of its limits the undesirable Britisher. You can
puzzle out for yourself on the basis of this fact how much
Australia really is “ portion of the British Empire."
A.E.S. c It is always the worst bards who are most
anxious about payment. Ostensibly, anyway... .Battler :
Have an idea you’re smarter than you look. You don’t
look smart enough to print Revert: Has nothin-*
striking but the absence of the definite article.. A.R ”
Thanks for “compliments of the season.” MS. basketed
this season or any other season G.H.C. : “Proud
equine queen” settled it.... Fred S. : You accord with
the principal criminologists in looking to the ear as an
important index, but you err in asserting that con-
genital criminals have always large ears. An abnor-
mally small ear, where the lower-jaw development
is great, is regarded as a certain indication of moral
insanity, as distinguished from intellectual
Alice G.R. (S.A.): Both for print Oourabyra : D.B.M.'
not up. F.I. not badly drawn, but verse hopeless..'
Wompye : Points; bit too rough W.J. : “Release”
not quite up; “Leaving” doubtful.... Manning: All
thin 8.1. : Nothing in it, bar aspersion of the head
of the local religion as a “sexless shade of Baldur.”
Mehta: Declined. . ..Merriwa: Sporting verse needs a
story... .0.0. : “ Gifts” unusable.. .8.N.: Some promise.
... O.P.S. : Not well enough worked out Francis N. :
Rather like a dry narration of facts than a story
J.F.M. : “ Jack’s Ruse ”no brightness Violet: Haven’t
seen stories you mention.... C.G.S. : Thanks ; but there’s
hardly enough in it....W.0. (Q.): It fa In too Involved
and inconsecutive a form.... Jean Mac. : Which Welling-
ton (N.S.W. orM.L.) do you write from? Pro-Aus. :
Goolagong ” is probably a modification of the Lachlan
aborigine s “ goolong’’—water. “ Gunnlleer ”is, as faras
we can ascertain, unknown as an aboriginal word, though
it may be a greatly corrupted form of one... .
Helene: For print... .Jehan : Just about good enough,
i’ll* : A vau P t ! Go and get yourself a coal-scuttle
full of cockroaches....E.G. : Too lengthy and not suffi-
ciently interesting to get “ a spase in our collum.’’
: Impossible to say how the criminal
statistics would look “if all offenders were arrested and
convicted.” A man is found murdered, and no clue is
discovered. Was he murdered by one offender or by ten ?
Bob R. : “ Lesson in Finance ” is good, but not new
enough. The same story has been told in 20 different
forms G.B.L. i Will print “What Used to Be.”
H.W. : It’s as old as Australia Albar : Just “ bli’me ”
or ‘ strike me ” —which don’t of themselves make a story.
....Uloola: “I remember” for print J.G.D. : Very
hard to read, and very little good when deciphered
Torquatus : No use....J. J. M‘D. : The good items are
very old, and the new items are very poor W.Y.L. :
“ Tale of Nine Brothers” uninteresting... M.F. : Sorry—
basket..Harold W.: Declined..Rapho: Not force enough.
D.M.R. : Will do, curtailed T.J.F. : Probably....
W. Stocks : Flat and tame Frank D.: Crude work..’.’.
Gascoigne : Lacks vigor and crispness.... A. R. Nott: No
power or pith Ringarooma : Interest too feeble
O.H.G. : If you want remittance, why not give your full
name and address?....G.A.B. : Substance of your letter
fully dealt with in an article F. Mans. : A ‘weak copy
of the “ Song of Solomon. ”... .W.J. : You don’t improve.
G.D. : True and heartfelt, but O’Maher: Take
more pains.. Wisp : Flat M.T. : Your destiny is to
write dull songs for music-halls Neelia: Beneath
criticism A.D.B. : Xmas verse moral and drearv.
W.H.R. : Glad your inspiration runs only to eight
lines; ten more would have finished us F.M. :
Considering “Gaudeamus” E.L. (Vic.): Picturesque
piffle..G.H. : “Shooting Stars” unusable T.H.C. :
Publish your verses in her album F.B. : Too thin
Matchbox: “Man’’point fair; rhyme dull Akarana :
Won’t d 0... .R.J.K. : They should never have left “ the
track between Tamworth and here.” Manning: As a
man of some parts, just scrutinise “Ad Stellam” and
own you’re ashamed of it Will M. : H 1!
W.Y.L.: No demand here for Chinese fairy tales....
J.J.M. : Nothing fresh in your MS Torgnastus: No
originality in your copy ; try to record what you’ve seen
or experienced, and let the imaginary alone for a while.
.... 8.8. : Too “ essayish.”....“ A Constant Reader ”
(Hay) : The B. doesn’t publish howling libels on anony-
mous correspondents’ mere say-so Yellamo : Shows
insight, but workmanship unskilful Graeme D. : Badly
handled Jill: Small literary merit... .Cyrano : Syntax
lamentable.... Hetty : Perilously akin to balderdash....
B.F. : Apropos “A Pearl Cast Before a Swine”—it is
only in the Australian language that “|swine” is used in
the singular... .J.A.P. :We made this “mistake” quite
intentionally. Never give a real name in a possible case
of bad libel unless you are quite sure Gembrook :We
have no information on the subject. Have' orwarded
your letter to the person in question... ,C.N ' Not terse
enough in the telling Alpha : Too unequa.i n quality.
.. ..Thompson : May have a chance L.E.N.: A poor
performance—even to the spelling... .Arno : Thin and
conventional....W. Coyne: Too crudely melodramatic.
Albar : Take another pen-name ; we have already an
“Alpar” E.W.: Funny, but hardly printable
Tenakoe : Write to H. C. Shaw, Telegraph, Brisbane
J.A.M. : Too long and wordy E.G.H.: Alas, nobody
who labels his alleged rhymes “ poems ” ever writes any-
thing decent.. . .O.M.H. : Many thanks, but*it is better
adapted to the other paper named H.L.R. : Yours is
not a bright dream ; it is a broken-winded nightmare....
Hobble: Too crude E.S. : What I “There are 6000
women clerks claiming a paltry rise in Victoria in State
employ, after 20 or 30 years service 1 ” Tell us some
thing believable Brolga : Yes; if accepted
Merry Mary: You make us sad ! F.G.W. : A hopeful
subject—hopelessly treated..... .Gardez-Loo : Had been
returned before your letter arrived Sigma: Variant
upon a yarn printed in Bulletin about a year ago
Rookie : What you mean is that the pen-lady in question
“ bites off a lot more than she can chew.”.. ..Lowrj' L. :
A weary waste of commonplace Dargal: Can’t say, till
we ve seen it.... Hogan’s Qhost: “ You won’t “ walk” in
Bullbttm. ... .Silveredge : Good descriptive power, but
slovenly syntax... .Brummy : Your grasp too feeble for
so massive a subject...,E.W.O.: You haven’t the neces-
sary insight... .Doublem : You come pretty near the
mark, but you waste words oyer inessentials. Great is
the art of “dramatic selection ”.. ..Camilla : “Broken”
is the best of the lot, but, even so, isn’t quite crood
•nough 6
TO ARTISTIC (AMD INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.D. : A cartoon which calls for all that explanation
stands as a self-confessed failure Veritas : Not sub-
stance enough....J.B.S. : Fear it’s too complicated
Unavailable :—C. Boyce Maurice S.P.: As a sugges-
t»on only A.L.M. : A careful and promising drawing,
but subject snapless... .Eric J. : Good enough Idea.
hopeless drawing Drawing good, but you haven’t
struck a subject.... J.A.O. : One as an idea.
Peters, the individual charged with
beguiling a small boy into a lonely house and there
■?/r^nL lm to death, was brought up at
Melbourne a few days ago, and remanded.
Joy way of some preliminary remarks for the
defence, it was stated that the accused was “reli-
giously inclined, and suffered at the time from some
species of mania.” “ Religiously-inclined ” is
suggestive. Come to think of it, there is a lot of
flogging m the Bible.
Mr. Tom Mann in a letter to The Bulletin
states that his remarks on retrenchment and
depression were not fully or quite correctly
reported in the daily press; consequently some
remarks of The Bulletin thereon, in his opinion,
were not justified
T H I w 8a «l D .° thin ? at fche meetin * of the kind attributed by
whprffh!;?, me ,. a B to applying old-world conditions
Aii«tr«.iiL inapplicable. I was alive to the fact that
n"™ 1 ' it continually borrowing, and I agree with Tub
bullktin that this is an unsound policy and I am fully
conscious that a greater production is called for here in
oo fli h C r m T °r ea th to “ Vlke a greater consumption
possible. Ido not complain in the least of the criticism :
only inform you that had you known what I said
3 ou would never have passed it.
A SOOTHING INFLUENCE.
“A new departure has been taken recently in connec-
Con with the management of Victorian lunatic asylums,
in the shape of the employment of female nurses as
attendants in the divisions for males. . . . The nurses
treat them with more patience, sympathy and tact. . . .
Patients hitherto difficult to manage are now tractable
and docile with the nurses.”— Argus, Dcc. 17.
PATIENT: “I think it cuts both ways, darling
F'rinstance, now; YOU are much more tract-
able and docile than my former man atten-
dant.”
Mr. Arthur Griffith’s constituents are
organising a testimonial to repay his expenses in
the recent libel action against the Newcastle
Herald.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.


k 'ftVilwv/ ]}*m
BonJsU-^ c
-f.llea ii
i Wo<€ dp'*'/
llfje (>U<e
*^%Ll
M°
\^ cK To "** 7
ivt %*■ ' e £j^L
r d,a
r'oi.ch l"|clt?oui'nc 4«
t"» , S r
IVfceWW , •
XL M s .u.<v!f*l
•£&??£*-
"iV/l
sr^i
! ARTI S^ J Be,H C k 9)
fe h 55 ~r?r~
c5°A °f
A Oh C K rkv/.
K 'I
A A re&i^^ ed
framed
in St p^fe
// jßfe,. .^rrw«K-
-4 € r
. 1 -v 1 .-"y
/ 5 C < \PAv>'?^ > ' e j
ii (2->tfj«t.Jm
Ikh-4 %
bfk UjA
°\
f ixr£^ i^y
I
P| {“s)
r
cflfa S ol ' '
•■ k Vr by 2“"7 .
£ ik^oufHS^.
\ [ S^
\ p fT
1 fyv I>]e Orc^lw^
>K^
ii k'Shtoo in %
W l * V* x t
K 'Hv ctar£t €ho«ok I s /V - '
- J K 8 - ty^rc^c)
MELBOURNIANA.


>* 1 - - /^•N,
of* fl|<S>
C(S>iz®.“
A N-S.W. NEW YEAR CARD.—CHANGING THE NUMBERS.
“HADN'T YOU BETTER PUT THIS UP, TOO, WHILE YOU'RE ABOUT IT?"
PREMIBR SEB : “NO; LET'S BREAK THAT 7,000,000 TO ’EM GENTLY.”


Key,
i!3J.Os.
Keyless.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Pull Cap, Hand Finished. Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £8 10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £3. £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 8, 4, ana 8 years.
Try one ; yon will not regret it.
fbeetradh
P&ICBS.
NO
ABVANCS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable LEVERS, “ lue Challenge,” 13s.
The unrivalled Lever, in Black or Niokel, 20s; perfect
timekeeper. The London Lever, new J-plate model,
255; m Solid Silver, £2 2s; in Donble Case, £2 10s, £3.
Rotherham LEVERS, £3los, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. Gold
WATCHES, i 4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satis-
faction, “ otherwise we will exohange watch for you.’’
Send, for Illustrated book of particulars, post free.
20s.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Terfeoi Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
Black or
Nickel,
30s.
Silver,
£5.
“FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
These we have at Every Price and Style. In Solid
Nickel or Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ;
Split Seconds, £8 LOs. Pure Solid Silver, £5, £6, £7,
£B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Solid
Silver,
£2 103-
Gold
Cases,
.£4 4s.
ERIC
m
**
1 .
S&&
m
WALTHAM LEYERS.
We are Special Direct Agents.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s :
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O,
and £25.
3
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), 452 10s,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £6 10s,
£6, £6 108, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s. Send for Price Illustrated Book.
15ct. Gold, Bar and Scroll BROOCH, Pearls and
Red Stones, 355. Quite New.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget ’
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 80s ; 18ct. Gold, 85s.
15ct. Gold, Extra Strong, with First-class
Opal, £2 5s ; similar, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
15ct. Gold, Diamond and 2 Rubies, 22s 6d.
18ct.
Solid
Gold, £lO
A. SAUNDERS.
16ct. Solid Gold Keyless WALTHAM
LEVER. Full Jewelled Works, Patent
Action, New Model £lO, £l2 10s.
You Can’t get a Better Watch.
I 14ct. Solid G6ld, £8 10s.
Extra
Strong,
£l2los
BE
<3
2-Bar Gold Scroll Pearl Set BROOCH, 20s ;
Hall marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered) Gold Secret Name BROOCH
15ct. Gold, Diamonds, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Six Different Patterns, Similar.
ISct. Gold 9-Bar Try Leaf, Set with Red,
White, and Blue Stones, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ivy and Pearl Gold BROOCH, 25s
9ot. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nowest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6d ;
with Raised Flowers each side (Any Name),
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our own Registered
Design.
®lr®
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM.
New Gold Bell,
7s 6d. i
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH,
Full Jewelled, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s.
Price to quality of works.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4 years.
9ct. Gold Square or half-round BRACELET,
3 Red or Blue Stones, £2.
Very Neat and Cheap.
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
£3; 15ct., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nicely Chased Gold BRACELET, 255. Very Neat and Pretty.
Sword and Sheath PAPER CUTTER, 6in. long.
Most Useful Present, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 3-Bar Diamond, 12s 6d.
Very Neat.
ISot. Gold
Turquoise
Forget-
me-Not
and
Pearl
Scroll,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
B§g“ ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 2Ss, 30s. £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
Floral
PIN,
Pearl and
Tur-
quoise,
255.
A. BAUNDERS.
New Wishbone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, l‘2e 84.
A. SAUNDERS.
Wish Bone and Forget-Me-Not, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d and 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 10s
larger, 12s 6d. A Nice Brooch.
Gold “Good Luck” BROOCH, 10s 6d
15et. Gold, 21s.
15s
20s.
188-
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Keyless WATCH,
Hood Timekeeper, 15s ;
Extra Quality, 20s.
Guaranteed.
CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Free.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
Gold Boot
CHARM, 5s 6d.
Latest Style.
10
11
15
12 13 14
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRADE PRICES.
10. —Round LINK, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
. £8 ; loot., £4, £5.
11. Rope Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
12. Curb Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
13. —Rope and Ball, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
14. —Curb and Link, £3, £4, £5, £6.
15. —Chain andßondell, £4 to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style, 15ct. Gold Pearl Set Buokle 2-Bar
BROOCH, 82s 6d. English Hall Marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
English Hall Marked 15ct. Gold Ruby and
Pearls, Scroll and Fancy Sides, £2.
Solid
Gold,
£6 10s,
Silver,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WALTHAM SOLID
GOLD KEYLESS,
3-movement, Chronometer Balance,
Jewelled, Perfect Timekeeper,
Extra Strong Cases.
Full Size, £6 10s ; Small Size, £5 10s.
Pure Solid Silver, same works,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Floral and
Ribbon BROOCH, £-2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. BAUNDERS.
lQot. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Heart
BROOCH, £2 2s.
Tlie Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
with Initial. £2 10s.
Extra Strong.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6dC
Plain, 21s, or with Initials’
nicely Chased, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2 ; >
Silver, 4s 6d. /
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered).
Gold LINKS, 20s ;
loot. Gold, 32s 6d ;
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
all Silver, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LINKS,
very pretty, 12s (Id.
Large Size, 15s and 20s.
Silver, 2s 6d and 4s 6d.
MIZPA.H GOLD
CHARM, 4s.
A. SAUNDERS’
Watches,
Clocks,
Jewellery,
AND
Silverplate
AT
FREETRADE
PRICES.
SAVE 25 PER CENT.
TO 50 PER CENT.
Showrooms :
815 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, 5 pure
Diamonds, £l2 10b ;
Smaller, £5, £6, £7,
£7 10s, to £3O.
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds, £5.
Diamond and
Sapphire or Ruby,
£3 10s ;
larger, £4 10s, £5.
A. SAUNDrRS.
18ct. Gold,
3 Sapphires, Rubies,
or Opals, 4 Diamonds
£3, £3 10s, £4,
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 80s ;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Buttercup Single
Stone Diamond
RING,
£3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold.
3 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 iOs.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ot. Solid Gold Buckle,
17s 6d;lsct. Gold, 30s;
18et, Gold, £2.
Solid Gold, Turquoise
and Pearl, 20s.
Newest Style.
Btfsr
A. SAUNDERS
18ct. Solid Gold. 3 pur
Double-cut Diamonds
~5, 1 Diamond and
- Rubies or Sapphires
£3.
18ct. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2, £2 10s, £3;
15ct. Gold, 30s.
18ct. Gold Buckle
RING, Diamond, and
'2 Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 l()s.
With Name, Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18et. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
GENT.'S RING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 255;
Isct. Gold, £2 ;
18ct., £2 10s.
„ A. SAUNDERS.
„ . Hand-made Wedding RINGS and KEEPERS.
Jet. bolid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15ct. Gold, 15s
extra heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold. 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for Card.
A. SAUNDERS.
815 AND B^EORGE- A STR S EEt" ,TH ’
nearly opposite
railway station.
SYDNEY.


FREE!
Send your name and
address to—
Chamberlain Medicine Co.
64 Elizabeth St., Sydney
{A Post Card will do).
and they will forward you a
Free Sample of
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
LSver Tablets
JUST WHAT YOU NEED,
i
ft Pv £ *® MlT pw<6\c -bsA
BEHUU’
CVtKHST.Trtt.S'TOWftC
fIHWUVTtWS.UN
ye
BETTER THAN PILL!
The question has been asked ; -n what
way are Chamberlain's Stomach and
Liver Tablets superior to pills?” Our
answer is—they are easier and more pleasant
to take, more gentle and kind in their action
and more reliable, as they can always be
depended upon. Then they cleanse and
invigorate the stomach and leave the bowels
in a natural condition, while pills are more
harsh in effect and their use is often followed
by constipation. Try and be convinced.
not able to obtain Chamber-
Tain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon
receipt of 1/6. or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 119
THE
STO M A C
MAKES THB SkKJt
A competent stomach means vigour, vitality, health, for
by digestion alone can food be transformed into blood, brain,
muscle, wasted tissues repaired, decay arrested and life sus-
tained. Imperfect digestion (indigestion) upsets the whole
' economy ©f life. It makes good food poison, breeds dolts, laggards,
hobbling rheumatics, nerve racking pains. Seigel's Syrup ensures
1 digestion, dispels disease, produces health. Backed by 34 years' un-
broken success in 16 countries.
0
“Two years ago I contracted indi-
gestion and had it pretty badly,” says
L Mr. Geo. Matthews, 93, Bourke St.,
Sydney, N.S.W. “ I suffered from severe pains in the stomach, sleep-
" and vomiting. ■ I lost flesh and strength rapidly and could
not work nearly so well as previously. My wife induced me to y
iry Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. The first bottle relieved ;
wonderfully and before the second was emptied I
quite cured and as “ right as rain.” July Ist, 1902.
TONUS THE
BTOMACM.
THE FISHERIES,
LIMITED
(Registered under tub
Companies Act.)
NOfIINAL CAPITAL - - - - £5,000.
DEPOT : 104 Hunter Street, Sydney. REGISTERED OFFICE : Gladstone Chambers, 90 Pitt Street.
TELEPHONES—Depot, No. 4013; Registered Office, No. 1792.
OBJECTS :
THIS ore»necessa*!?ilv^eoofineil^to'^he 6 wholesule’tracitMroni °its^Depot!'m
“ its operations are v he Series of this and other States, other Distributing Lstabhshimnts,
Ou will U opened in the leading thoroughfares of the City and Suburbs for the sale ot Fish unc.tr
the most “ up-to-date” and sanitary conditions.
The Carolines.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Concerning a little-known part o£ Oceana, a
correspondent writes:
The recent Hispano-Yankee war led to tb« sale of the
Caroline Islands by the battered Spaniards to the Ger-
mans, who promptly started to root out ad non-German
traders. One day, the Archipelago awoke to the fact
that it was possible to import goods only from the Fader-
land by parcel-post; with Hongkong, Singapore, or
anywhere else, no trade could be done by that medium.
Further, the only communication the Archipelago now
has with the outside world is by a steamer belonging to a
German co., which has grabbed all the local trade, and its
business is so brisk that the steamer never has any room
for any but its own crowd’s goods, and it always maintains
that there is not enough trade to justify any increase in
the fleet So all traders not connected with that co. are
fading rapidly away. There was a fine irony about the
official announcement that “ existing stations were to
be allowed to carry on, but no new ones were to be estab-
lished.” But, as the co. in question has a monopoly of the
carrying trade, it resolutely refuses to convey goods for
the “existing stations.”
In the days of the Spanish regime there was a fair
export trade in copra, b@che-de-mer, pearlshell, vegetable
fungus, ivory-nuts, and provisions for the support of the
garrisons sent out from Spain. The Germans closed the
b&che-de-nier trade for four years. Then, whether it was
that the Germans ate less than the Spaniards, or
imported more preserved sauerkraut and bottled sausage
from home, the trade in provisions wilted away to
nothing.
Germans are not popular in the islands—naturally. It
was a Maori half-caste who, after a trip round with a
party, returned to Ponape Island and told his friends
that the party consisted of three white men (including
himself), four natives and two asterisk Germans. Even a
half-caste declines to be classed with a German ; but all
the same the man of beer and sausages holds the best end
of the gun, and popularity goes for nothing in the face of
that.
The Caroline native is of a light-brown and rather
superior Malay stock. His social arrangements are
charmingly simple. When a young man’s fancy lightly
turns to thoughts of love, he simply calls round where
the girls abound, and the aged parent gives him every
encouragement. If the young man is satisfied, he takes
the young lady home, and they live together in perfect
respectability without any unnecessary ceremony. If
either party gets tired, that parly makes a polite excuse
and severs the connection. No ructions ever follow. A
man or woman who would make a fuss about such a
trifle would be laughed out of existence.
When the breadfruit is ripe, the men climb the trees,
knock it down, and the women carry it in, cut it in two,
peel it, wrap it in leaves and bury it. In two or three
years it is supposed to approach perfection, and it is then
resurrected and eaten. Limburger cheese, sauer-kraut,
the mashed corn of the Maoris, sewer-gas, all pale
into insignificance beside the awful stench of this greatest
delicacy of the Caroline Islands. But, once the taste is
acquired, it is like oysters, drink, and the morphia-habit
rolled into one—the appetite is insatiable. During the
breadfruit season there is a great rush for mates on the
part of both sexes ; and when that season is over a big
proportion of the newly-married couples quietly divorce
themselves, to make a fresh start in matrimony with a
new mate the following year.
Under these elastic conditions no man is sure of his own
father, so descent is reckoned on the mother’s side. The
simple islander feels that there is not so much chance of
mistakes under that system.
The Caroline Islander’s worship is as elastic as his
morals. The chi.dren have fairies, and the grown-ups
have devils. Many of the head men have leanings towards
Homan Catholicism, and there are unkind people who
affirm that the Catholic missionaries keep a good brand
of gin on the premises in case of attacks of colic. Colic is
consequently' very prevalent among headmen. Even the
alleged Christian natives are not bigots, and on one occa-
sion, when Lep en Nut was taking his departure rather
early, I asked him why. He explained that he had to
make worship to Ids devil. “But,” I expostulated, “I
thought you belonged to us now ? ” “ Oh, y es ! ” replied
Lep, “your Lord plenty good fellow, uut this devil mine
plenty had fellow, so I think I better go square him.”
Lep en Nut was a character. The gay old dog wanted
co marry two .voung girls of extra special looks, and being
a “ padre’s man ” (a Catholic) he applied to the priest for
permission, explaining that as his teeth had all gone it
was necessary for him to have two young wives to chew
his food for him. The good father (so he said) gave him
permission, and the old boy’s digestion after his dual
marriage was simply marvellous.
The Spanish padres were quite content if the native
subscribed himself a “ missionary-man.” They tempered
the gospel to the shorn native, and winked at his plurality
of wives, and other like trifles. But the ’Murkan mis-
•ionary circumscribed the heathen with his fearful and
wonderful code, and when the native broke through it the
missionary dealt out more threats of hell-fire in five
minutes than a score of bullock-punchers could have got
off in half-an-hour.
When I left Ponape there was a curious deadlock. A
new Spanish padre had arrived at our side of the island,
and the female population was in a great state of excite-
A CAROLINE ISLAND “NEW WOMAN.”
ment as to who should lead him astray first. His
reverence was daily bombarded with amorous letters,
which he at first carefully stored and then read out in the
church. For a time the women were amused. Then they
became amazed, and at last (for woman is the same all the
world over) almighty mad at his Joseph-like indifference.
First they withdrew their children from the padre’s
school, and then they threatened to leave his church in a
solid body and become members of the rival ’Murkan
Protestant show over the way, unless the padre came to
a definite decision as to which lady he loved best. When
I left, the deadlock was as dead as ever, and I regretted
having to miss the clearing up of such an interesting
complication.
The Old Man Mountain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Strange, how little we know about him, Kos-
ciusko, the one Old-Man Mountain of the con-
tinent—how slow we are to take hold of the
comfort and rest he offers in the days when summer
oppresses all below. When on the Blue Mountains
the lizard on the rocks is the only happy living
creature; when at Moss Vale the verandahs are
blinded in, and all the armies of the flies are busy
without; what then on the Old-Man Mountain?
The memory of it comes back, now that the
swelter of this summer begins, clear and
refreshing as a crystal ice-block seen through
a pyramid of roses on the dining-table
of people who know how to live. It was the
last Saturday in February, Newmarket Handicap
day, the tail-end of the worst month in the year ;
and it had been a bad month down below. We
looked out from our tent door on the snow timber
a couple of miles from the summit, and lo ! the
whole earth’s surface was flecked with patines of
bright gold. For all around was mottled with
the half-melted snow, and the mottles shone
golden in the sunlight. There was frost in the air
and life and exhilaration in every breath. The
stifling heat below seemed more remote than
Calcutta is from Lima. We, stacking log-
ends together and raking-out coals for a grill,
thought of Sydney and Melbourne as Cities
of Dreadful Night, and much we marvelled that
we three, alone of all the Australian world, were
out of that hell. Not another living soul within
50 or 100 miles in some directions, nor yet a beast,
save the rock-wallaby, a stray dingo, or a mob of
wild horses. Big eagles rose from their eyries on
the edge of the cleft ravine of the summit and
screamed as they swept off on foray.
Strezlecki named Kosciusko for us a good many
years ago, but Black, Government Surveyor of
Victoria, was first to map out his bulk, ascertain
his exact summit, and build a cairn there which
wiil endure till the granite crumbles away. Black
was fixing the dividing-line of the two States
then, and had about as good instruments as could
be obtained in the world. He had a competent
staff, and took time to verify every observation.
Black’s highest peak was challenged by Count
von Lindenfeld, and the latter’s statement has
found too much credit in the world. Now, this is
the story of the Count. He came to the house of
Spencer, the guide, in a cart, well loaded
with provisions. He was leather-stockinged,
knickefbockered, capped and pocketed in a style
to make the mountain men marvel, and he could
drink with the best of them--but was not
much good at the shouting. After three days
looking about he started with Spencer for the
summit. They passed four hours there, during
which Lindenfeld classified and named many
strange flowers, and also ascertained that Black s
cairn was in the wrong place, a bit of a stunted
cone a mile away being full 70ft. higher. Black
i said, “ The man is mad.” Spencer speaks of him
always as “a bit looney,” and tells a queer story
of the evening of the last day of the return
journey. The grog had given out full 24
hours, and Count Lindenfeld s temper with it.
They' came to the sliprails of the paddock
inside which was Spencer’s hut. The Count
knew it. “Mein Gott! ” said he, “now
for de champagne ! ” and he went away at a
gallop. There were 2000 acres in that paddock,
and tracks everywhere. “I let him go,” said
Spencer, “and it was near on 11 when I heard
him bellowing in the bush. I had sweated his
whisky a bit by that time, but li* went for t’other
stuff properly. ” t
Old Baron Von Mueller knew a lot about the
Old Man Mountain—used to take one bag of oat-
meal, another of ship-biscuits, with sugar, tea and
billycan, go up from Cooyong on his old, white
pony, botanise through the day, and sleep in dry
caves at night. Henry Kingsley knew nothing
and put some awful bunkum about the snow and
bitf fern country into that otherwise good book,
“Geoffrey Hamlyn.” When Wragge took posses-
sion he began oavorting with the spirits and
powers of the air right on the top. It was hoped
that something like permanent occupation had
been effected, but his house is desolate now, and
the mountain once more deserted.
Half-starved sheep and cattle may be forced up
through the timber and scrub to the great table-
lands about the Big Bogong, and even over the
granite ridges and past the ugly morasses to the
summit. Many skeletons will mark the routes,
but remnants will survive, and owners and drovers
will see them fatten on the tall grass amongst the
flowers and wonder how it is people do not abide
permanently up there. Winter will teach them,
if they stay too long, for winter anywhere within
a radius of 50 miles comes with the ice-sword
whetted and the snow-shroud all prepared.
It is a summer country —the sanatorium pro-
vided by nature ; the great neglected opportunity
of Australia, which, “if Francis Villon were
King ” for four months only, should be neglected
no longer.
King Owe’Sullivan, Australia could afford to
see you owe just a little more if you would but
take this matter in hand. We don’t want more
than a hospice on Wragge’s foundation, but we do
want roads, and we do want the beginning made
of a summer city of rest somewhere about the Old
Man’s shoulders. Plenty of sites available with
altitudes of 6000 ft., which means 70° as a maxi-
mum noon temperature, and double-blanketed
beds every night in the year. Only a day and a
night from Sydney, and a day and a night and a
day from Melbourne, with such means of transit
as are now available. The night train from Syd-
ney reaches Cooma at 9 in the morning, whence a
coach-drive of 60 miles will bring health and com-
fort seekers out to any quantity of 6000 ft. coun-
try. Drive past Kiandra to the heights over-
looking Lobb’s Hole (a fair road right out there
now). You will reach it easily by the evening,
and, if you come out of the swelter of Sydney or
the fire of the backblocks, will deem yourself on
the threshold of Paradise. You can sleep by
night, you can walk, run, jump, and climb by
day. You have ice-cold water flashing down
twenty gullies ; you have rich red soil, hundreds
of acres of it, all about you; which through the
brief summer would produce vegetables, flowers,
and hay-crops in abundance. You have granite
for building, and forests near enough, whence logs
for the hearth may easily be obtained. It is Old-
Man country in every respect. Blue Mountains
and Moss Yale are only picanniny stuff—and we
are but a picanniny people, for otherwise we
should have been up there with hotels and lodging-
houses by the dozen half-a-century ago.
Why not a Governor-General’s summer palace
out there ? The locality is not half so remote
from our State capitals as is Simla from the great
Indian capitals. It is indeed the naturally-
ordained site of Australia’s more easily accessible
Simla. Macedon, like Moss Yale, is only a make-
shift place ; hot air in exohange for a vapor-bath.
Folk going there creep on to a hump in the flanks
of the world, while the broad shoulders aloft in
the blue are neglected, because unknown.
Sydney’s chance to get a scrap of use out of the
Governor-General in that way is plain enough.
Fix him there, and good old toadyism would
quickly enough make a city about him. But now,
while yet ’tis day in the mountains, before the
night of the snow comes, wherein no man may
work, what hinders the despatch of a few hundred
of the unemployed to that high and healthy
country ? Any man with a pair of hands and a
heart the size of a walnut could do some sort of a
day’s work. Are there not tracks to be formed,
reserves to be first made and then cleared and
fenced, rough stone huts to be built on the route
to the big mountain’s head, and, across to the
Murray Valley in Victoria, stone to be quarried,
timber to be sawn, brickfields to be opened ? All
these things, Mr. O’Sullivan, are infinitely more
important, and, in the long event of things, will
be more payable than Cobar-Wilcannia railways,
or even tram-lines to localities of dubious advan-
tages adjacent to the city. They mean the pros-
pect of new life to thousands of city folks,
and hundreds of backblockers whose poor bodies
are as cinders or clinkers now and the dead
within them. They mean a perfect health-zona
easily accessible, sole and sufficient in the con-
tinent. They mean ultimately a railway-traffic
such as that which focuses on Berne through the
summer months. And all within and to the
advantage of the State of New South Wales.
That last, alas, is probably the reason why nothing
is done. Had Victoria’s boundary been the
Murrumbidgee instead of the Murray, Australia
would have had Simla on Kosciusko’s shoulders
many years ago.
FRANCIS MYERS.
Australian Naval Defence.
Thus a correspondent:
When the above subject is mentioned, it usually con-
jures up visions of a number of specially-built fighting
ships, manned by crews who will spend a considerable
portion of their time haunting cnea* wine shops in
company with voluble damsels in l d blouses. The
Anglo-Saxon mind of modern days associates naval
defence with a strictly regular force, and anything in the
shape of a naval irregular is considered too impossible to
be even thought of. Why this should be is a mysterjn,
Some of the best naval fights on record have been put up
by sea-going irregulars ; such as that of Grenville in the
Revenge against 15 Spanish warships at a time, for two
days and nights. Drake, Raleigh, Hawkins, and other
vikings, who laid the foundations of England’s maritime
supremacy in the days of Queen Bess, were all irregulars.
Five-sixths of the fleet that defeated the Spanish Armada
was privately-owned and manned by mercantile crews.
All through the long duel between France and Britain
the privateer played a brilliant part on both sides. The
fact that steamers, built for the purposes of ordinary
commerce, can be utilised effectively in maritime warfare
is recognised by the British Admiralty, which subsidises
certain liners on the understanding that, they ». all be
at its disposal in times of trouble. There is a general
idea that the civilian ship, no matter how well armed and
built, is no match for even an inferior warship. A little
while back that might have been so, but the advent of the
quick-firer has revolutionised maritime warfare, for the
quick-firer is the rifle of the ocean. In the Chilian civil
war between the Congress and President Balmacboa, two
newly-built sea-going torpedo ships, of 22 knots, sheathed
in chilled steel armor with a curving surface, one morning
surprised the battleship Blanco Encalada in Caldera Bay,
and in 15 minutes torpedoed her. The riot attracted the
attention of the scouting ship Aconcagua, a passenger
steamer which, on account of its speed, had been
impressed by Congress and armed with a solitary Hotch-
kiss quick-firer amidships. The two torpedo ships carried
about eight guns each of all sorts and'sizes, but none of
them were quick-firers. For two hours that civilian
ship made a running fight, and her single gun had
pounded one torpedo ship so that it had to haul off for
repairs, and but for the proximity of a Presidential fort
both might have been destroyed. At the battle of Yalu
River the whole Japanese fleet failed for two hours to
make any impression against the heavily-armored battle-
ships as long as they kept with the rest of the Chinese
fleet.« But one got detached ; in a flash she was
surrounded by seven paltry gunboats, mere unarmored
shells whose quick-firers smothered her with such a storm
of shot that she could not open her ports, and in seven
minutes she was ripped up and sunk. So far, every naval
authority that has spoken has declared that the raiding
cruiser squadron is the only enemy Australia has to
fear. There is no cruiser afloat in the world that can
stand against seven ordinary sea-going ships armed
with quick-firers if there are men who can shoot behind
the guns. According to Coghlan, the Commonwealth
own over 900 steamers. Among them there should be 50
or more capable of carrying at least six quick-firing guns.
These, backed by good forts and a mosquito fleet
scattered around the ohief ports, should make Australian
waters too hot for any raiding cruiser squadron. Any-
how, it would be a lot more protection than the alleged
fleet of slow-moving craft called the Australian Auxiliary
Squadron. Moreover, our armed coastal marine would
always be about our coasts. Schools of gunnery should
be established in every State, and a certificate in big-gun
marksmanship should carry a small annual allowance
with it. Australian shippers should have the coastal
trade reserved absolutely to themselves, and in return be
compelled to build their steamers up to a certain standard
and carry a specified number of quick-firing guns accord-
ing to tonnage and stability of ship. Some £200,000 per
annum spent on arming our own mercantile marine and
making good marksmen of our own sailors will give in-
finitely more protection to our shipping and undefended
coast-line than the same amount spent on an Imperial
squadron of eight or nine warships, which may be called
away to African or Chinese waters in the day of stress
and battle. The money would also be kept in our
country, and a necessary part of the scheme would be the
establishment of a proper, up-to-date gun-foundry and
ammunition factory in a safe place in Australia.


Hotel
Australia
1
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
This beautiful hotel is fireproof from tower to
basement.
For cuisine, comfort, style, appointments, and
perfection of attendance, The Australia is the
first hotel of the Southern Hemisphere.
It is Sydney’s great summer hotel, being
situated on a lofty site, and catching every
breeze. Visitors to The Australia sleep in a cool,
pure atmosphere.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies'), Manager.
oaBtlereagh-st., Sydney.
SPECTACLES
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
strutions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to-
ll. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
371 Qeorge-st., Sydney, next A.J.S. Bank.
HOW TO KEEP COOL.
We strongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condv’s
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath
A Condy’g Fluid Bath imparts a most
delightful sensation of coolness, freshness
and purity, it invigorates the body and
braces the nerves. The strengthening and
cooling effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book
on bottle contains full directions
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists
throughout the British Empire. Beware
of substitutes. Insist on having “ Condy’a
Fluid. Condy & Mitchell, of London,
ngland, are the only Makers and their
name and address is at foot of label.
Before booking yo ur Steamship
passage write for Travellers'
Gaaette & Sailing List, with map.
thos* COOK & SON
269 Gollins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-et, Sydney.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest),
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
P atents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
“Don’t shout”
I hear you. 1 can hear now
i as well as anybody.
"■ How?* Oh some-
thingnew—The Wilson ’
Common-sense Bar-
Drum I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
they're invisible. I wouldn't
know I bad them in myself.
‘ only that I hear all right."
JThe Wilson Ear-Drum *s
real! > a substitute for the
parts of the
i aural ear. Has no
wire Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
v ce Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CHAtntlfS. 229-281 Collins St., Help-
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums 1
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KINO ST., SYDNEY.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
In view of the falling away in business,
N.S.W. railway department proposes dispensing
with 500 casual employees. What a Christmas-
box !
An evidently open-eyed correspondent to
Sydney D.T., discussing last N.S.W. Liquor Bill,
comments on the change shown in the views of
M’s.P. since womanhood suffrage came; and
reckons that the liquor interest must be prepared
for a resolute and possibly successful Prohibition
campaign.
Part of Chamberlain’s “mission” to
S’Africa will be to arrange for the taking over
from the Chartered Co. of Rhodesia; that is one
of the illegitimate babies that the British taxpayer
has to hold as a consequence of the war. It is safe
to assume that the conditions of the deal will not
be unfavorable to the rascally Chartered Co.
Embling, of the Victorian House of 48
Rich Landlords, considers that “ additional taxa-
tion would be unnecessary if the Government had
dealt in a statesmanlike way with old age pensions
and the Education Department.” He hadn’t the
courage to propose the abolition of old age
pensions and State education, but that suggestion
is coming sure enough.
There’s probably something wrong in the
cable to the Australian papers that “ Canada
resents the Privy Council’s decision that Japanese
registered as British subjects should not be
allowed to vote.” The boot is probably on the
other foot, and it is the Canadians who wish to
debar the Asiatics from voting and the Privy
Council which objects.
“The Friedman-Case fake” of Sydney
Freetrade press received a heavy blow last week
when Levy, the second person charged with
“ receiving ” goods from the thief, was found not
guilty. The evidence against him was on all
fours with that against Friedman.
WANTED. A MONROE DOCTRINE FOR
AUSTRALIA.
“During his recent tour through the States, Mr. Roosevelt
said that the Monroe doctrine meant that the nations of
America must be left to work out their own destiny without
European interference, and that the continent was no longer
a colonising ground for Europe.."— Daily paper.
It is truly wonderful what a number of
representatives of British and foreign shipping
interests have stated, in one set of words or
another, that they are sorry, from purely unselfish
motives, to hear of the proposed Australian navi-
gation law, by which the coastal trade is to be
reserved for Australian-owned vessels or vessels
paying Australian rates of wages. They all say
the suggested innovation won’t injure them in the
least, and they only object because it will be so
very bad for Australia. People of such a noble
disposition are lost in the sordid shipping biz. A
light, comfortable billet as cherubim is about their
size.
Thfi Irvine Government prided itself
specially on its holiest administration and its
eager acceptance of responsibility therefor, yet the
first big administrative action _it takes—the
Waranga reservoir job—smells right across Vic-
toria and well into the adjacent territories. It
was left to a private member— McDonald, ol
Footscray—to condemn it, almost the only
assistance he got being from the Labor party.
Cohen and co. are, it is cabled, trying in
S’Africa the experiment of importing coolies from
India for slave work in the diamond mines, the
Kaffir supply getting unreliable (i.e., demanding
higher wages), and white labor not being thought
of by that crowd. Cohen and co. professed a
moral compunction to using Indian troops against
the Boers in the late war; but there is no hesita-
tioh in using Indian coolies against the white
laborer.
The Westralian Upper House didn’t exactly
reject the Reform Bill, but went through the
empty formality of deciding that it be read that
day six months. A Premier with a picturesque
capacity for vengeance might get square with the
UpDer House for that silly joke by keeping it
sitting for six months, so that the Bill may come
round again for further consideration. Then the
jest would probably not be repeated, and one
hole through which reform measures drop would
be closed up.
Great Britain, formerly, above all other
places, the home of the cotton industry, seems to
have almost given up the struggle for supremacy.
It uses less cotton in its manufactures now than
it did eleven years ago, while the consumption of
the United States has nearly doubled, and that of
the Continent of Europe has increased 32 per
cent. Britain occupies a bad second place now in
cotton manufacture, and a third place seems not
impossible. Yet Freetrade was to make it * the
world’s workshop.”
From Port Chalmers (M.L.) concerning
the local victory of the liquor prohibitionists :
A large proportion of the Port’s inhabitants are
lumpers, who have quite a large vote in public matters.
Great was their disapproval of the local hotelkeepers’
methods of doing business ; not that they recognised the
“ demoralising effects of alcoholic liquors,” or wished to
see beer swept out of Maoriland—certainly not that.
But one thing they did most emphatically object to, and
that was 6d. beers, and the publicans consistently refused
to sell beer for 3d. Then came election time, and with it
the Local Option poll. The lumpers banded together
and registered prohibition votes, “just to give the
publicans a fright,” never dreaming that through their
own votes they might be losing their beer altogether.
When the votes were tallied, the biters found that they
themselves were bitten, for there were nine votes too
many in favor of Prohibition. No more beers ! No more
drunks ! No more seven-days-without-the-option ! Now,
while I write, the lumpers and the pubkeepers are
working hard in a common cause to prove the poll an
informal one. And meanwhile Port Chalmers is the
maddest town in all Maoriland.
N.S.W. receives about £1,200,000
a year as instalments on land sold under
conditional purchase, but a huge decrease
under this head is coming. In 1897 the
amounts still owing by selectors were
£12,381,760; in 1901 they were only
.£10,305,902. There isn’t enough new
selection going on to keep the balance
even as the old selectors pay off their last
instalments and get their deeds; and
though the area held under conditional
selection isn’t diminishing much, the
amount owing on it is being fast reduced.
Now a large, gladsome system of re-
appraisement has been introduced, which
will probably knock another million or so
off the amount owing. The revenue re-
ceived from selectors is likely to slump
terribly in five or six years from now.
From the once violently Freetrade
Perth (W.A.) Morning Herald
The M'Kinley tariff—probably the highest
protective tariff ever conceived—might not have
suited any other country, but, as the event has
proved, it was just what was required to hasten
the development of the magnificent natural re-
sources of the United States. ... It has enabled
the U.S. to bring her industries up to such a
pitch that her enormous population of 77 million
people is now practically self-contained. By re-
serving the local market for her own people she
has developed her resources at a rate that would
have been impossible under other circumstances,
and if now she should find it necessary to amend
her economic policy in order to secure a dominant
position in some of the markets of the outside
world, she will be merely following in the
footsteps of England. The industries of
England were built up under a protective policy
just as those of America have been. The extent
to which the U.S. may in the near future depart
from the settled policy of Protection cannot be
easily foreseen, but the message of the President
makes it abundantly clear that, as has been the
case in the past, the question will be decided on practi-
cal business grounds, and that the actual needs of the
country will be considered rather than the shibboleths
of political economists. In this respect most of the
countries of the world—and Australia more than others
—may well take a lesson from American principles.
There are 544,000 square miles between
Oodnadatta (S.A.) and Pine Creek (N. Territory),
and the syndicate which builds the railway be-
tween these two places is to get 140,000 sq.
miles. The balance is mostly desert, so it is
really a case of giving away all your victuals to
pay for having them cooked. Premier J enkins,
by the way, is starting to advertise his land-grant
proposals in Britain, France, Germany, Canada
and the U.S. The advertising bill will swallow a
few more sq. miles.
The Age explains that the Irvine-Shiels
Government increased the income-tax, and cut
down the charities vote, and stole the sinking
funds to square this year’s accounts, because a
general land-tax is too slow a measure ; owing to
the time, lost in the valuation process the money
wouldn’t be available this year. That seems a
good reason why any sensible Government should
propose a land-tax now, so that the proceeds may
be available next year—when there will be no
sinking funds left to steal. You can’t steal the
same sinking fund twice ; nor have the same
deficit twice; nor fall twice into the same hole
unless you climb out in between the two fallings-
in.
THE FOREIGN BRIGADE.
“The German Emperor has nearly 8,000,000 men
fighting for him.”— (Daily paper.)
That is not inclusive of the Reid, Sargood and
M'Millan gang.
Hard to believe in these days, when the
“Royal Colonial Institute” is so markedly an
institution merely of snobs, toadies, title-hunters
and jingoes, that at its inaugural dinner 35 years
ago, the U.S. ambassador to England said, and
excited no disapproval:
It is possible that some of the colonies, which now
flourish under the dominion of Her Majesty, may in
process of time find themselves under the Stars and
Stripes of the United States, where they will find a
country of which they and all Englishmen will have
reason to be proud.
The Labor party in South Australia
watches with trepidation the attitude of the Govt,
on the Education system. The Cabinet is so
completely under Tory influence, and its craze for
economising as a means of avoiding substantial
direct taxation is so pronounced, that there is a
fear that now the Jenkins and Darling parties
have a temporary ascendancy in Parliament an
attack may be made upon the principle of free
education. Already Attorney-General Gordon
has made some ominous statements on the
subject.
Premier Seddon has ideas about establish-
ing large iron-works in Maoriland with the aid of
a bonus. This country, having made no success
at establishing such works without a bonus, it
seems about time to try that device. Australia is
still thinking, slowly and unprogressively, about
its proposed ironworks. There is no hurry.
About £lOO,OOO of loan money will keep the men
whom the ironworks should have employed going
during a year of thinking, and then we can
borrow and think some more. The great think
and loan policy saves much haste and perspira-
tion.
A few months ago the Adelaide papers
were crying in chorus —“The State and the
municipalities can’t afford to convert the horse-
trams into an electric system ; let Private Enter-
Erise do it.” But now that Private Enterprise
as jibbed, this is the chorus—“ Well, if Private
Enterprise won’t, the State or the municipalities
must.” Of course. Let the public do what it
won’t pay the syndicate to do. And, strangely
enough, the public take to the doctrine quite
calmly. They let the syndicates milk the cow ;
for themselves they are satisfied to be working
bullocks.
Despite all that has been said about
“national industries” the rise of its manufactures
under a rigid system of Protection seems to be the
chief source of Maoriland’s progress. In 1890
the output of Maoriland factories was worth
£8,773,000; in 1900 it was worth £17,141,000. No
other industry has grown at anything like this rate.
During the last 10 years the number of workers
employed in the manufacturing industries of
Tasmania increased by 2087; in S.A. by about
7000; in Victoria by 12,116; in Queensland by
13,754; in N.S.W. by 15,256; and in Maoriland
by 23,085.
The Victorian House of Landlords, despite
the urgent requests of the Irvine Government
that it would make haste, hung the Probate
Duties Bill on the nail of procrastination, and
departed to rest till near the end of January.
Every day the deficit is growing larger, and Shiels
is growing more haggard, and Bent is exploding
in fresh places, but the House of 48 Rich Land-
lords stands on its dignity and hangs things up.
The Landlords probably want, by kicking out, or
mangling, or hanging up a few measures, to break
the news gently to Irvine that his Reform Bill
hasn’t a ghost of a show.
A letter from Tasmania ;
Re land-grant and private railways. The Tasmanian
Government could have bought up the Main Line at one
time for £600,000, but it didn’t. Instead, it built two or
three branches on to the co’s railway, thereby increased
its value materially, and then paid £1,000,000 for it. For
that million the Tas. Government got a mass of worn-out
and almost useless engines, obsolete rolling-stock and a
line which had to be renewed almost wholly, from end to
end. Also, the Govt, took over the whole of the Main
Line employees, with the understanding that the time
they had put in with the co. was to be reckoned in their
classification as time spent in serving the State As a
result they got the best billets on the railways all over
the State, and hold them to this day. J r
TV.p Victorian Tory Government continues
to drop hints ab out the possible abolition of old
aeeTensions. Probably they mil be abolished.
Peacock’s semi-democratic Government had its
chance— and lost it. A party which adds to the
expenditure a heavy charge old age W
must also find the money to pay for them. I it
only lets them be an addition to the deficit the
principle falls into disrepute and then comes the
turn of the Tory crowd which knows how to make
ends meet—by abolishing old age pensions. The
same trouble will come in N.S.W. unless the
Labor party takes measures to show that old age
pensions can be paid by other devices than
charging nearly a million a year of ordinary
expenditure to loans.
There was a very pretty political row in
NSW Cabinet through the departure on a three
months’ holiday of Attorney-General Wise, whose
health demanded that he should have a rest.
Some people concerned were particularly anxious
that Mr. Crick should be Mr. Wise’s locum tenens ;
others were just as anxious that he should not.
Final result,as announced by the newspapers in the
form of a personal explanation demanded by
someone or other, is that it is not true that Mr.
Pollock will act as Attorney-General and Mr.
Perry as Minister for Justice, but that Mr.
Pollock will perform those duties which are cast
by law upon the A.G., that Mr. Perry will be
Minister for Justice and that Mr. Crick will do
the whole of the ministerial work of the A.G. s
Department,” which is doubtless a satisfactory if
a somewhat mysterious arrangement.
Unemployed, demonstrations are now a
regular feature in Westralian towns. Westralia,
huge as it is, and allegedly teeming with re-
sources, seems to have run its brief career as a
Promised Land inside 12 years. It is still
allowed to raise revenue in a way not permitted
to the other States by border customs, but the
first instalment (one-fifth) was knocked off its
border duties two months ago, and already the
“ alarming decrease of revenue ” is talked about.
Long ere the other four-fifths are abolished, W.A.
will be tired of sending Freetraders to the Aus-
tralian Parliament to demand the abolition of
customs taxes, as it did in its bumptious days.
Already Treasurer Gardiner is on all-fours under
the table looking for the lost threepenny-bit, and it
is wonderful how many other Treasurers he meets
under the same table on the same errand.
What a pity that one or other of the
Sydney daily papers didn’t take it into its head to
detail for the public that recent case in which a
most respectable firm of importers was persecuted
in the police-court by the department presided over
by the fiendish tyrant Kingston for wrongly
describing certain alleged “ washers ” in the
customs entry. What a howl there would be
from the injured innocents of the innermost Free-
trade ring if Kingston aforesaid, noticing how
considerate the daily press is to its special consti-
tuents, and how assiduously it keeps the public in
darkness, issued a comprehensive and informing
summary of the details of customs prosecutions as a
supplement to the Commonwealth Gazette ! The
importer’s squeal in the daily press is nothing as
compared with the silence of the daily press when
silence suits the importer and the daily press.
Victorian Railways Minister Bent seems
to spend most of his time now cancelling the
orders he gave a few weeks ago, and, solely by
reason of his roar, he manages to pass as a strong
reformer both when he shouts “Yes’’and when
he shouts “ No.” As a wise statesman he ordered
that the railway expenditure must be reduced—
which was a reform ; then finding that it had
already been so reduced that the lines were falling
asunder, he ordered that it should be increased
so as to catch up arrears of repairs—which was
also a reform. He decided that there were too
many employees, and firmly put them on five
days work a week ; then finding that there weren’t
enough, and that many of them were working
overtime, which isn’t a paying game, he firmly
put some of them back on six days work again.
Another man, doing this, would be called a
foolish and ignorant wobbler; but by reason of
Bent’s roars it is all merely extra firmness. He
wobbles at the top of his voice, which makes the
difference.
Said Justice Walker in the Keogh-Bush
Union case:—
If any of those men, whether officials or members of the
union or not, but acting in furtherance of the purposes of
the camp, committed illegal acts for the benefit of the
union, the union itself was liable to anyone who suffered
from those acts, being the acts of persons who, for this
purpose, were in law the agents or servants of the union.
The hole that gapes in the bottom of the argu-
ment is that the people who are not members and
some of those who are, may have the most per-
verted ideas about “the purposes of the camp.”
When lately in S’Africa irregulars went beyond
their instructions, even though they did it with
the very best of intentions, it was their own
funeral—it wasn’t the nation’s ; it wasn’t even
Kitchener’s, their boss’s. When, however, the
irregulars of a strike camp get the same perverted
ideas about their duty it isn’t their own funeral at
all—it’s the union’s. But, then, it looks a lot
safer, and for some people it is certainly pleasanter,
to kick a union than a nation. Also, it comes
more natural.


PALING’S
BEST Sc CHEAPEST HOUSE fop all
Catalogues f- ree
Wr jte for one
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS
•V
I G L I NS*
FR
pr^sJ-
- "WQVij
*SN HOQNVW®
JL
¥TO-
• CORN ELT S « froa\2£^-
BAND INSTRUMENTS BY
B&SSON BOOSEY arCOUESNOH.
-/feWyj
SOPNVQo
All Instr u m e n+s
guaranteed
e MOUTH ORGANS* fr.o/^3*
The ©ushmaq" and 2/
°AUTO—-
HARPS®
\z/e
GUITAR
ZITHERS®
FROA\I2/<S>
accqrdeons concertinas
W.H.PALING *cC°L td 338Ge0 §YDMEY.
S)6c »? (CAe Genuine)
LIPP PIANO.
LIPP PIANOS are the leading
Pianos of German Manufac-
ture. They have been in use
all over Australia for over
40 years long enough to
prove their merits.
I
*
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling <SL Co., Ltd.,
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
The newly-enfranchised women voters of
N.S.W. should read The Bulletin’s “A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond.
Post free from Bulletin office for 7d.
A Well-Known Sydney Resident Cured
... op ...
RHEUMATISM
BY
VITADATIO
47 Lower Fort-street,
Dawes Point, Sydney,
November 30, 1899.
Mr. a A. PALMER,
184 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —I am glad to testify to the invaluable
qualifications of VITADATIO. Some 13 months ago I
had to consult a Melbourne doctor re a severe attack of
rheumatism. The doctor prescribed for me, but the
medicine gave me no permanent relief. I suffered acute
pain for some months, and was unable to get sleep for
more than an hour or two during the night. Knowing
several of your clients who had been cured by VITADA-
TIO, I resolved to give it a trial, and am happy to say
that for the last three months I have been perfectly free
from pain, and have no hesitation in attributing my
restored health to VITADATIO. I shall be very glad to
give personal corroboration to the above, if necessary.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY S. PEGG.
Witness : Damct, m. Urib.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS^
with AA marks
PATENT
RUBBER
FEET and
HANDS
ARE THE BEST
PROCURABLE.
lift
Sole Agents and Manufacturers:
DENYER BROTHERS, 281 SYDNEY,
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Catalogues and Prices on application.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throai.
TRY THEM. PRICE—OWE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M.P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Tbjjjfhone 2288. 82 KING-BT., SYDNEY.
Glenelg (S.A.) Corporation lately passed
a resolution “ that this corporation thinks in its
wisdom ” that so-and-so should be done !
Melbourne Society to Assist Educated
Persons has not done much business thus far.
Balance-sheet for last financial year shows that
the Society advanced £145 16s. Bd. as loans, and
received £l2 16s. back from advances. No money
was disbursed in “ actual relief.” From which it
would appear that the educated citizens of Mel-
bourne are either an exceptionally prosperous
crowd, or are generally incapable of squeezing a
small loan from the Soc. aforesaid in their hour of
need. A society for advancing “ fivers ”to neces-
sitous scholars would fill a long-felt want in
Sydney, anyhow.
A jealous husband with original ideas of a
wife’s rights and duties was invited to excuse
himself before an Australian court the other day.
He and his wife were watching the arrival of the
Dukelet last year when a well-dressed stranger
bowed to the wife and passed on. The lady said
she recognised him as an old friend and gave no
more heed to the circumstance; the husband,
however, worried over it so much that he became
ill, and had to knock off work. Later the pair
met the stranger again, when hubby stopped him
and demanded explanation or reparation ; he
didn’t say for what. The stranger denied all
knowledge of the lady, whereupon she,
taking this as a reflection on her charac-
ter, went for him, tooth and nail, also boot.
Thereafter the lady continued to go for him
whenever she met him, which was frequently;
hubby starting the uproar by stopping the
stranger in the middle of the street and desiring
his wife to “do her duty.” The stranger mostly
sought safety in flight, but as he was a heavy man
and the lady was spare and light-footed, that
expedient was not always successful. Hence the
court case with its resultant ss. fine. As the
stranger swore in court he had never known the
lady the husband declared his honor satisfied and
departed, promising to molest the other no more.
Legal Notices.
PURSUANT to an order of the Chancery Division of
the High Court of Justice in Ireland, made in the
matter of the Estate of THOMAS WILLIAM
RUTHERFORD, late of 134 Saint James’s Street, in the
Citv of Dublin, Tobacco Manufacturer, deceased, between
ELIZABETH ANNE KENNEDY, Plaintiff ; WILLIAM
JOHN RUTHERFORD and WILLIAM PICKERING,
Defendants.
All persons claiming to be next-of-kin according to the
Statutes for the distribution of intestate estates, of the
said Thomas William Rutherford, living at the time of
his death on the 4th day of January, 1902, or to be the
Wal personal representatives of such next-of-kin, as
are now dead, and in particular the children (if any)
of James Pickering, a lawful brother of the half blood
of said deceased, are by their solicitors on or before
the Ist day of May, 1903, to come in and prove their
claims at the Chambers of the Right Honourable the
Master of the Rolls, at the Four Courts, Inns Quay,
Dublin, Ireland, or, in default thereof, they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefits of said order.
Wednesday, the 6th day of May, 1903, at 11 o in
the forenoon, at said Chambers is appointed for hearing
and adjudicating on claims.
Dated this Bth day of November, 1902.
EDWARD SALfION,
I’CONNOR & DUDLEY,
Solicitors for Plaintiff,
St. Andrew's Chambers,
40 Westmoreland Street, Dublin.
CHIEF CLERK.
Orders
Come
From all
These
States!
WHY?
Read Letter Below.
•s
i
1
■MS6
V :
■t'
THE
CALLAGHAN
23/6
A PAIR.
POST
FREE.
DUTY
FREE.
Gentlemen’s Fine
Calf Lace Boots,
Whole Goloshed,
Calf Kid Legs, Made-
to-Order Appearance
price, 22/6 ; post and duty free, 23/6.
Please remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note.
“Messrs. CALLAGHAN & SON,
“Dear Sirs, —The Boots arrived safely on Saturday, and I am very pleased with them.
They fit like a glove, and had I had my measure taken I could not have got a more perfectly
fitting Boot made to order. I shall give you orders in the future. Yours faithfully,
“A. E. K., Mount Hope, Tasmania.”
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.


Banking, Public Companies, fta
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.——
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
Csv
9
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
fflont depiete fIJI. Co., Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
»4. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
-THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Directors:
Hon J F Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robirts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299— assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
tl9 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of jjorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
T p Canny (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL *7°0,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share- _ ___
holders 250 000 £350.000
The
XLUVCU
LIMITED.
nAPiTAT. PAID-UP -• •• -- £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,00 u
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LWUMW OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE
16 Brandies in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
Queensland Smelting jjompg.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-t> Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
SAVIN G 8 BANK
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £15,000, on Town
Properties ; £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES, and
sums from £5OO Vo £2OOO at 4J per cent, on Town
Properties FOR FIVE YEARS, WITH OPTION OF
PAYING OFF PART HALF YEARLY.
FARMERS' CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans up to £2OOO at 4J per cent. FOR 31J YEARS.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Oo.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Borns (Burns,
pi, jlp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide :L. A. Jbssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlanb ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £9576 13 4
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office —GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,300,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. .. 5,300,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaiirin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.LC.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures ; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
t>r in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping.
KT. ID. L.
(NQRD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
Interstate First-Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANG LIN, 7th JANUARY,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about 23rd JANUARY.
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC, and MEDIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 27 0 0
25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
agents.
Huddart, parker & C°'s C* ne
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
FASTEST AND BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.O.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors:
W. L. Docker, Esq. James O. Fairfax, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. (Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
°J!L No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
s the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatlo
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Slocks of the
Best
Carbide
ofCalcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
X
WONDERFUL VALUE —A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket,
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and
Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the definition of your
character, very superior for parlor entertainments), the
Mafeking Grub (or Nerve Strengthener), the Vest Pocket
Tubular Microscope (very useful for examining small
objects), the Cinematograph (or book of moving pic-
tures), and, last of all, the great American Puzzle—
“ CAN U DO IT.” Instructions enclosed.
This splendid packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.
Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket. 710 George-at., Sydney.
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMS HIE CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & GO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
Jan. 26, Feb. 23, March 23.
The Rocky Mountains, The
Great Wheat Fields, Niagara
Falls, Chicago, New York,
Quebec, En Route.
CHEAPEST & MOST ATTRACTIVE
ROUTE HOME.
lINIOM STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
USB
SPOONEB’S
-U
55=
SPOONER’S
V
*
*
f.n- ,{«>*•>•».*■-■ •*+*
KTt*(T LEATHER BQOTS
. / C UZE C A!i)s«
£*•*!»•* ~-P #v»»:
••*■"« •>?« <»««'♦****"
.-.-.■••cif iii-ViV n*. •Wrtv'i*
•>**«>»-» *>p* —»««»•<
IVS
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers ,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Medical.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion
Positively Cures
Swelling Blight, Bunged Eyes, &c
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Free for Asking.
I»#RITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
» » book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the' advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy
strength and ambition once more. Posted free Write
to John Wilson, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide S A
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quesnsland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego,
Friday, January 2, at 5 p.i
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, January 3.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oalrns
S.S. Innamincka, Saturday,
January 3.
"S.S. Warrego, Sat., Jan. 10.
S.S. Rockton, Sat., Jan. 17.
Best and Cheapest lioute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAND ft OOMPANY’B
■ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
»OCEANA .J 6603 E. Street I Mar. 4
~ " ‘Via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, .China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Officer
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. AND n.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
These steamers specially built for the Eastern passenger
trade are fitted with EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR
TROPICAL TRAVELLING. The Saloon Cabins con-
taining two berths only are all on UPPER DECK AMID-
SHIPS, and are large, cool, and fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD., GIBBS,
BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents, 37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. CDLLIS BROWNE’S
rmoRQpyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, & G -> bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o*
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicinal should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to ba
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRA.IG & AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
Qents.^*-
WHITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne


Tm Bulletin Reciter has been taken by
Bill and Jim straight to their warm hearts, and
already its contents have gladdened thousands of
audiences all over Australia. Most of the best
and most famous Bulletin recitation-pieces are
included m this line collection-price ss. post-
free from Bulletin office.
Melbourne
Musical
Magazine
The Music Book of
the Year.
Contents
No. *7
I
1. Absence Makes the Heart Grow
Fonder
As Sung by Miss Jennie Opie and
_ . , Sam Holdsworth
My African Queen
Barney Fagaa’s great Coon Song
The Bismark Grenadiers
Ilrl . Miss Byron’s quaint little Song
Whisper My Name to Nell
Sweetly pretty, a lover’s Song
Terry, Terry
An Irish Song of great merit
Sweethearts Still
A pathetic Song, with a true ring
_ about it
The Sweetest Words
A sweet little baby Song, would
suit a little girt to sing
Good Night, Daddy
Sweetly pretty, of delightful simplicity
One Always Loves You, and
That One’s Me
The title suggests the style
The Huntsman
Something jolly, of the great Dan
Leno's, a great thing for At Homes
or Concerts
Jack to the Fore
A fine, rollicking, breezy Sea Song
_ „ for Baritone
Fallen by the Wayside
By the Composer of
“ While the Dance Goes On ’’
The Best of Friends Must Part
2.
7.
10.
11.
12.
13.
One Shilling.
posted,
1/2.
For Sale by all Music and Booksellers in
Australasia.
COLLINS ST., Melbourne.
i Mention this paper.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade—vie., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
Oct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE. AUSTRALIA.
Engineer Electric Plant.
Nife-clean work:,Rood pay. Wouldn’t you like
We re here to help you. Study by corre-
spondence Electrical, Steam, Mechanical
Engineeri ng,—
P’umbing, Heating,
Ventilating or
Mechanical Drawing.
These subjects are taught
at home by correspon-
dence ; also Steam,
ft ichanical and Elec-
trical Engineering,
Mechanical Drawing,
etc. Write for informa-
tion and Handbook “ B.”
American School of
Correspondence, at Ar-
mour Institute of Tech-
nology.
Sydney: Box 629, G.P.O.
Reader, why not be able to nse the
most mysterious and powerful force ol
nature? By my method you can 'earn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, witn-
out leaving your home. Y °“
form all the many marvellous feat*
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can curedUeas*
conquer pain ; win reluctant afifoeUou,
I gratify your ambitione, and produce
lauTusement hy the hour It.costs.you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON Of Key to
[.Hypnotism, which fully explains
Lthe mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever imblished. For a short
time I will sand this magnifi-
cent wotJt FREE* sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address — L.D.I.i 300 Collins St., Melbourne
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
55., P. 0.0. or stamps.
S BECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brioffach,
Germany.
BAD COMPLEXIONS
Dry Thin and Falling Hair and Red
Rough Hands Prevented by
GUTICURA SOAP
MILLIONS use Cuticura Soap, assisted by Cuticura Ointment,
for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for cleans-
ing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping
of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red,
rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the
form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes, for ulcerative weak-
nesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic, cleansing purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers, and for all
the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Cuticura Soap com-
bines delicate emollient properties derived from Cuticura Ointment,
the great skin cure, with the purest of cleansing ingredients and
the most refreshing of flower odours. No other medicated soap is to
be compared with it for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the
skin, scalp, hair, and hands. No other foreign or domestic toilet soap,
however expensive, is to be compared with it for all the purposes of
the toilet, bath, and nursery. Thus it combines in One Soap at One
Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the best toilet and
baby soap in the world.
COMPLETE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticcra Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure torturing, disfiguring humours, eczemas,
rashes, and irritations, with loss of hair, when all else fails. Sold throughout the world.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq.,
.London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Potter Drug and Chem Corp.,
Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
nilTinilßA PRfIIVFNT PI II Q (Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
UU I IUUIIft lILOULVLIII lILLu odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. _ Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest,
most successful and economical blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonio-
digestives, yet compounded.
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
Noiseless Uuderwater. .
Exhaust
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 267 i.
WITH THE KINC ENGINE-ONE LEVER CONTROLS'THE WHOLE.
M c r> E Ft M: O T T & C o ivr DE» A 3XT Y,
30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
There’s SECURITY in
RS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
Si FURRED TONGUE^
)
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
TOUGH the LIVER
They
...lall Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Cartels
Be Sure they are
The “ Enterprise ”
Rubber Massage Roller
Makes, Keeps
and Restores
Beauty in Na-
ture’s own way.
Tha cup-shaped teeth have a
suction effect on the skin that
smooths out wrinkles, rounds out
the beauty muscles, and gives per-
fect circulation of the blood.
It is so constructed that it treats
every portion of the face and neck
perfectly, even to the “crow’s
feet ” in the corners of the eyes.
Price of Roller - - - -
(with FREE Sample
Jar of “SKIN --
FOOD")
4/6
Post
Free.
Box 133, G.P.O.
THE ENTERPRISE CO., melb.
When ordering please mention this paper.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No, 101*3, ■^.CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets anil
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied*
FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
Sydney Coffee
'A ±
Palace Hotel,
LOWER DOMAIN
(Under New
Management)
is the Healthiest and Cleanest
hotel in Sydney.
TERMS—From 6s. per day, and from 255.
per week.
SICK MADE WELL
WEAK MADE STRONG
Marvellous Elixir of Life Discovered
by Famous Doctor-Scientist That
Cures Every Known Ailment.
Wonderful Cures are Effected That
Seem Like Miracles Performed—
The Secret of Long Life of
Olden Times Revived.
The Remedy Is Free to All Who Send
Name and Address.
After years of patient stndy, and delving into
the dusty records of the past, as well as following
modern experiments in the realms of medical
science, Dr. James W. Kidd, 486 First National
Bank-building, Fort Wayne, Ind., U. S. A. f
Lw
DR. JAMES WILLIAM KIDD
makes the startling announcement that he
has surely discovered the elixir of life. Thas
he is able with the aid of a mysterious com-
pound, known only to himself, produced as a
result of the years he has spent in searching
for this precious life-giving boon, to cure any
and every disease that is kn own to the human
body. There is no doubt of the doctor’s earnest-
ness in making his claim and the remark-
able cures that he is daily effecting seems to
bear him out very strongly. His theory which
he advances is one of reason and based on
sound experience in a medical practice of many
years. It costs nothing to try his remarkable
“Elixir of Life," as he calls it, for he sends
it free, to anyone who is a sufferer, in sufficient
quantities to convince of its ability to cure, so
there is absolutely no risk to run. Some of
the cures cited are very remarkable, and but
for reliable witnesses would hardly be credited.
The lame have thrown away crutches and
walked about after two or three trials of the
remedy. The sick, given up by home doctors,
have been restored to their families and friends
in perfect health. Rheumatism, neuralgia,
stomach, heart, liver, kidney, blood and skin
diseases and bladder troubles disappear as
by magic. Headaches, backaches, nervousness,
fevers, consumption, coughs, colds, asthma,
catarrh, bronchitis and all affections of the
throat, lungs or any vital organs are easily
overcome in a space of time that is simply
marvellous.
Partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, dropsy,
gout, scrofula and piles are quickly and per-
manently removed. It purifies the entire
system, blood and tissues, restores normal
nerve power, circulation and a state of perfect
health is produced at once. To the doctor all
systems are alike and equally affected by this
great “Elixir of Life.” Send for the remedy
to-day. It is free to every sufferer. State what
you want to be cured of and the sure remedy
for it will be sent you free by return mail.
Remember, a letter to America requires 2Jd.
postage. Write your name very plain, and be
sure to give your full address, so there can be
no mistake in delivery.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS.


FACILE PRIIMCEPS
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
4 The Speodiest, the Most Comfortable,
and the Strongest Bicycles built, , ,
Brancnes in every State. GOOLD BICYCLE C 0„ 64 King-st, City,
tar* Send for our Illustrated Catalogue.
Scene: Toowoomba court-house. Jane,
up for “drunk and disorderly,” pleaded that she
had received a letter stating that her son was
blind, and had taken just a drop to brace her
nerves prior to meeting him The P.M. : “What
a state to meet your son in!” Jane: “He’s
blind, yer Washup, an’ couldn’t see me.” Cau-
tioned and discharged.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England."
Under the statesmanlike plan“of Irvine
and Shiels for clearing off the Vic. deficit, the£3-a-
week policeman has to pay nearly a fortnight’s
“screw ” every year in percentage deductions,
income-tax, and contribution to the superannua-
tion fund, and has the additional satisfaction of
knowing that the House of 48 Rich Landlords,
after gleefully agreeing to his little whack of the
taxation, scornfully refused to let their own
money-bags be touched, even after they are dead.
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.—The ex-
perience of millions of people in all quarters of
the habitable globe during the last quarter of a
century has confirmed the value of Hunyadi
Janos as the best and safest natural aperient.
Invaluable to diners-out.*
TRY IT TN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S °fS,d y AMMONIA
marvellous preparation.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair "
Removes Stains and Grease Soots from f'lr.+u - "
Allays the Irritation causeTby
Restores the Coloo n r V, t B o°Car n B S e,s n Hot C'inoates
Tji__ „' ~r p' U- Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
9rR ? nn Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON. ENGLAND.
p, , Wholesale Agents for New South Wales-
ELLIOTT BROS., L'MITED, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The New Year's Day meeting at Flemington,
which was formerly dedicated to the “ Champion ” race,
has lost all its old importance for owners. This year’s
entries for the Standish Handicap and Bagot Stakes were
the smallest on record, and the record has been diminish-
ing for years past. The fact is, a race meeting on New
Year’s Day is absurdly out of place. Jan. Ist is the day
for forming good resolutions against gambling and drink-
ing and things of that sort, and the resolutions last for
fully a week in many cases. The second Saturday of the
new year is about the most promising of all dates for any
sinful form of entertainment. It allows time for the bad
resolutions to return from their annual holiday like
giants refreshed.
• • • •
The Y.R.C. committee has presumably got
the Government behind it in what looks like a strenu-
ous endeavor to obtain legalisation of the tote in
Victoria. The committee’s circular, issued last week,
invites a conference of all Vic. racing club reps, to be
held at the V.R.C. office, Jan. 20. Also, the country club
committees are desired to wait upon their local repre-
sentatives in Parliament, and talk sense to them con-
cerning the tote and its points of comparative virtue as a
substitute for Isaac de Moses.
* • * *
Maoriland’s careful protection of its gilded
“young races” blocks the owner of Achilles from raking in
the shekels. M.L. yearling sales occur in January, when all
the best races for two-year-olds are closed. As Vic. and
N.S.W. yearlings are not sold till March or April, there’s
no inducement for M.L. people to import Australian fliers
to oppose the home product. So the best yearling in
Australia isn’t so valuable in Maoriland as a well-engaged
second-rater. Achilles, bought in Sydney, appropriated
every one of the few events left open to him, and in
them beat the winners of the fat things he couldn’t
compete for. Achilles belongs to the same family as the
famous Gipsv Grand.
* • • •
Colt Cherson’s win of A. J.C. December Stakes,
Boxing Day (at 6 to 1 against) evidenced splendid form,
especially as odds-on favorite Duke of Grafton was third.
The Duke looked light, and didn’t get off too well, but he
might have left the barrier on the moment, travelled faster,
and still have been beaten. At A. J.O. Nov. meet, Oherson
was reckoned easily the best of three Belltrees (N.S.W.)
colts engaged in the 2.yr.-old event then, but he never
showed out once, and finished in the ruck. Since then, a
racefell to him atNewcastle, followed by Nursery Handicap
on opening day' (Saturday week) of A.J.O. December
meet. Many good judges contend that the crack colt
(Duke of Grafton) of the Victorian Spring carnival had
gone off, otherwise Cherson would never have scored
over him. Against this is the reported fact that at
Newcastle, prior to coming Sydneywards, Cherson nego-
tiated sfur. in 1.2, giving Gentleman Jim 71b. and a bad
beating.
« • • *
Mo.’s own scurviness will yet bring about the
tote in Vic. and N.S.W. V.R.CJ. committee is trying
hard for the establishment of the machine, and in N.S. W.
there are anxious inquiries as to the fate of that Bill
which came before Parliament about three months ago.
At present it is hard to back your horse ; £2O invested
brings down the price with a rush, and it is usually
impossible to get fair odds against anything with half a
chance. Then, again, if there’s the slightest suspicion
that some known good performer will be backed for a
particular race the bookies “ get on ” among them-
selves, limiting the market considerably. F’rinstans, it
was generally known that at card call previous
night the stable purposed backing Pendant for
Tatts. Carrington Stakes. A hungry bookmaking firm
hastily went round and greedily secured all possible at
top prices, and left the rest for the owner. The books
have an understanding that while betting on the course
they’ll not lay a cent over a fixed price when danger
threatens ; consequently before the public had a
“ brown ” on, Yuranigh was made a favorite at 2 to 1 for
last race of first day of A. J.C. meet. In some cases “no
money” was the reply. To crown all is the “backing
back ” business which nips commissions and leaves
owners with mere husks. And this is the sort of robbery
—mean, sordid robbery—which the Church influence
supports, in preference to the clean and wholesome tote.
* * » •
Lieutenant Bill, winner of last Caulfield Cup,
went out for a race at Caulfield on Boxing Day. Bill this
time carried 9.9 and a lot of superfluous flesh, but he
didn’t seem burdened with any weight of stable money
or public confidence. In fact, there was no attempt to dis-
guise the fact that Bill might almost as well have been
ruminating in his stall instead of “sporting silk.” Even
the starter showed his disrespect for Bill’s chance by
raising the barrier when the head of that unbacked
champion was turned to where his tail should have been,
so the fractious animal ran last all the way.
• • • *
Recently-launched Sydney Trotting Club, in
existence with the best of intentions and backed up by
energetic enthusiasts who’ll make the venture go if they
get a show, has struck trouble early, though nothing the
enthusiasts could do to avoid it was left undone. Failing to
make arrangements elsewhere, after trying very hard, they
decided to hold their meets on Forest Lodge track, and
were getting along capitally when the A.J.C. stepped
in with a warning to the Moses of Sydney and City
Tatts. that they must not bet at places used for
pony-racing. This wouldn’t be so bad but for the fact
that Forest Lodge Club is entirely “on its own’’—com-
pletely without the pale of even pony racing generally—
for Kensington, Rosebery Park and Brighton will have
none of it, and first-named people go so far as to eject
from their grounds bookmakers who bet at Forest Lodge,
though the offenders are only at Kensington as spectators.
As things are now the S.T.C. is in the difficult position of
being compelled to throw in with the unregistered lot, or
secure and lay out a course for itself, which would occupy
a greater length of time than the members could be kept
together.
* • • *
Takapuna (M.L.) J. C. races are prolific in big
tote dividends. At the Spring meet t’other day Persever-
ance, in a field of six, paid £25 6s. on the inside and
£47 ss. on the outside machine. It was at the same
body’s last summer meeting that Leo Delaval got home by
a neck and brought the sensational whack of £322 to
those who invested on him inside, but only £3B to the out-
side section.
* * * *
Pendant’s time (1.15) for Carrington Stakes,
Saturday, though fast enough considering that she won
comfortably, is slower than the figures created by some
previous winners. Precaution did it in 1.13 J, Loch Maree
1.13}, Vanitas and Fulminate in 1.14, Stanmore in 1.14 J,
and Trieste and Akarini in The honors of the
race this time were certainly with Kinglock, who, carry-
ing 10.1, finished at a rare clip over the last furlong.
* * * *
Martini Henry-Acme gelding Acton, which
turned out such a failure, was sold at Ballarat
recently for £l2. Latest owner tried vainly to make a
hurdler of him.
• * • *
Kinglike’s first in A.J.C. Villiers Stakes (lra.j,
Boxing Day, with 9.2, and second to Pendant in Tatt.’s
Carrington States (6 fur.), Saturday, with 10.1, were
brilliant performances. Times, 1.40 and 1.15 respectively.
Kinglijch’s improvement has been rapid since annexing
Toorak Handicap ; two weeks ago he ran second at w.f.a.
to Cyanide.
Rattler, who cleared 6.10 f at Singleton (N.S.W.)
recently, is by Sunlight (by Gemma di Vergy) out of an
active coaching mare of unknown^ pedigree.
Breeder (Mr. A. Nivison) of M.L. champion
Medallion colt Achilles, though blind, like Mr. Phil lips
(owner of Abundance and Felicitous), is an admitted
capital judge of horses, mainly through his wonderful
sense of touch. „
Mo. suffered at V.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield,
Boxing Day, first favorites winning five of the six races,
and all heavily m
At Tahuna Park (M.L.) Auckland jock
Pringle, recently unsuccessful in Vic., won five races ana
finished second in four.
*•* . *
Some punters will take a tip from anything.
At a bygone Donald (Vic.) races a board in the grand-
stand floor gave way, and a hoseless leg, belonging to one
Polly, dangled in view of those drinking below. Someone
shouted, “ Polly for the Maiden Stakes, and Polly, a
rank outsider, did win the M.S.
* • * *
A first attempt to motor from Adelaide to Mel-
bourne resulted in a humorous failure. An intrepid,
but respectable, citizen (Mr. B. Thomson) left Adelaide
at 2 p.m. one Friday and proceeded joyfully for 10 hours
on his snorting car, but the next stage of the journey
convinced him of the foolishness of starting a mighty
enterprise on a Friday. Some 14 miles beyond Memngie
the motor began to run into sandrifts and burrow into
pipeclay, which smelt horribly, and having struggled
with adversity until 9 p.m. on Saturday, poor Thomson
managed to engage a draught horse to pull the expedi-
tion to the next halting place. Then the oil supply gave
out, and some new petrol, bought at Kingston, failed to
keep the machinery going. So Thomson hired a horse
and dray to carry the motor and its melancholy driver to
a railway station, and there he took the night train back
to the place whence he came.
• • • *
A device that will strongly commend itself to
anglers is an automatic fishing-reel, newly invented in
(of course) U.S.A. The reel self-winds through the
action of a strong spring, held in check by a friction-
brake, which can be released by a mere finger-touch.
With this reel there is never for a moment any “ slack in
line,” because, just in proportion as the fish “ gives,’ the
reel winds in.
» • * *
A “peace on earth, good-will to all men ! ” ad.
from Age, 24/12/’O2 :
CHRISTMAS DAY, on N. Melb. Football Ground.
First brace of dogs in the Mixed Maiden at 2 o’clock
sharp. Record entries for season ; 150 good, strong
rabbits secured. All the champion dogs from the
colony competing. Fox Terriers, Irish Terriers, Grey-
hounds. Pnotos. taken for the weekly papers. Book-
maker’s fee to bet, 2s. 6d. Roll up. Good betting.
Admission to ground, 6d. ; pavilion, 6d. extra; boys,
Id. : ladies free. Vehicles free.
G. W. GODDARD, Hon. Secretary.
Photos, taken for the weekly papers—this is almost as
attractive as pigeon-slaughtering!
m * * *
“Adelaide”: Would the other States “cer-
tainly have objected” to Darling’s playing this season for
S.A. (B. 20/12/’02)? And could they if they would ? Even
the very severe English rules (designed to prevent poach-
ing by weak but wealthy counties) make him still eligible,
any way you take them. A man cannot qualify by resi-
dence under two years. When once eligible to play for a
county he can do so till properly qualified for another.
Where the home of his father and family is may he
reckoned as Aishome if he so pleases. Finally, he is always
eligible to play for the county where he was born. All
these rules (it being admitted as to the second of them
that he has never attempted to play for Tas.) make him
still eligible for S.A. After which it is interesting to
remember that when he was actually in Adelaide last
Jan., awaiting the Test match, S.A. was too scrupulous to
play him against N.S.W.; this although the home team
was quite overmatched without him, and he badly needed
practice for the big match, and the visiting captain kindly
signified that they had no objection whatever. This
being thus, it is unkind to say that this State “ had
hopes ” of using him this season.
• • • •
The whole of the just returned Australian XI.
absolutely refused to play in any fixture either with or
against Jack Worrall, and this practically means
boycotting him from first-class Australian cricket. His
criticism of the team was perfectly justifiable, even if
incorrect, as he is a cricketing journalist, but his per-
secution of Noble and Saunders was bad form, and now
Saunders and Noble are top dogs, having their day.
* • * •
Victorian cricketer Worrall, who retires per-
manently from Australian cricket, played first for Vic. 17
years ago. Since then he has always represented his
State, sometimes as captain ; went to England twice with
Australian Elevens, and was a good performer.
• • * •
There’s a movement in N.S.W. cricket circles
to get Kermode to return from England, whither he
went under engagement to Maclaren and Lancashire.
• * » *
A lot of nasty questions are being asked about the
proceeds of the Crown-street (Sydney) Old Boys welcome
to cricketer Trumper. Official estimates stated there were
4000 present, which, at a shilling a head, means £2OO. The
presentation was the gift of the Old Boys, so the ticket-
money wasn’t used for that, and the rent of the hall
wasn’t paid out of it, and people are asking what
did become of all the money. A balance sheet is
badly wanted, but no one seems to know exactly whom to
call upon for a balance sheet; altogether things are
very mixed.
. • * • •
Kelly and Mackenzie opened N.S.W. second
innings against S.A. last week, and former was bowled
early for nil. Pye, Hopkins and Mackenzie followed—the
latter with an accumulation of 77, making 90 for the
match.- Four were out for 121, then a rot ensued. Two
runs later C. Gregory went for 33, and subsequently
Trumper for 2—he hit his wicket for perhaps the first
time in his career. Noble followed (52 n. 0.) Innings
produced 229. Noble’s display was brilliant, his strokes
on all sides being perfect. Travers bagged 5 for 54, and
Kirkwood 3 for 33. Seeing that the wicket was excellent
Travers’ performance must be written a great one. Hack
and Reedman again opened for the Crow-eaters and
punished Howell and M‘Beth severely. Trumper and Pye
were als > tried without success. At stumps draw (with 374
to get to avoid defeat) S.A. had 57 w thout loss. Next
day, Hack (28) only added 4 when Howell bowled him.
Then Giffen and Reedman got together, and cricket
enthusiasts remembered that they alone of the 22 en-
gaged took part in the first N.S.W.-S.A. match, verging
on 13 years hack. In 40min. Reedman never made a run,
and was eventually stumped by Kelly for 40, compiled in
2hr. 20min.— 12 scored on the last day occupied lhr.
20min. The balance of the innings was a partial collapse
and resulted in a total of 163—211 behind the Cornstalks.
Howell got 4 wickets for 59, and Pye 3 for 28.
* • • «
Apropos N.S.W.-S.A. match: Noble figured
against Wheat Staters six years ago, and has since accu-
mulated 1009 runs against S.A. and 2000 against S.A.
and Vic. —average, 54 an innings.
* • * «
Inter-State cricket tussle (N.S.W. against
Victoria), began in Melbourne Friday, last week,
was the 69th of these fixtures. Teams included eight
members of latest Australian XI. Crowd swelled from
. ii non NSW batted first on a
better than average to 11,000. tried to
perfect pitch. Persistency with which wicket
"pull ”the halls brought disaster,
fell in quick succession. sucn gtrong did
are fatal when there s fire in the p ■ , Gregory.
the hat-trick- getting Mackenzie Hopk ns and Gregory
R. A. Duff accumulated 102 in 2hrs. 48mm., ana v
sequently caught without notching u (our 3
bution—brilliantly put togethe 2 hrs. 5 6m ins.
and 4 threes. The innings . , 51 runs,
Trumper had his bat at work ■ . ifc wag
among them being 5 fours and » were
a dashing effort, despite that ted victoria’s
given. Graham and M Ali9t and etoht
attempt. Three were down for 16, four > on ]y
for 74, the opportunity ending with full total 93. u y
double figures were Graham s (32) and g
While five eggs appeared among sDt t
three on the Victorian side. N S.W. bowling iai y
the home combination up. M Beth bagged ?
Pve two for 14 Noble two for 42, and Howell one ior ti.
to his credit. Innings produced 212. K
54. Wanting 318 to win, Victoria had, when stumps
were drawn, 57 without loss—Graham (3 ) bowled
(25) not out. Both men were missed. M Beth bowiea
five maidens. 0 „
Match 0. v. N.S.W. second XI. opened on
Sydney Cricket Ground, Boxing Day, befo l? le g
Visitors batted and stayed there all day Drst to go was
J Carew (15), quickly followed by his brother Paddy (-b
Dr. Macdonald came next, and, with is
20mins., notching 22. After luncheon, who is
an old Sydney man, succumbed to a fine catch by Cuff ,
having hit up 61 in 2hrs. and only given one chance. A
whilom Glebe man, Fitzgerald, followed, and made 14 o
the next 16-batting brilliantly above any other seen
throughout the day—before being run out. Succeeding
player was Atkins, another erstwhile Sydneyite . and
he and M‘Don aid added only 44 in 50mins. Thi g
dragged, and onlookers were wearied unto breaking up
completely. Ultimately the medico went for 51 pded
up in 2hrs. 35mins.—think of it 1 Atkins was run out for
82 which he put together in just over two hours. At
closing time there were 9 down for 275-not out men
being Hoare (25) and aboriginal Henry (nil). Best bowling
was Deane’s 3 for 58. Resumption (Saturday) saw innings
soon over, Henry being stumped for 7. Hickson and
Mac Kay set matters moving for N.S.W. Henry scattered
Mackay’s wicket for 8 and Hickson’s for 30 and there was
1 down for 78 at lunch. Best batting of the match was
supplied bv Sid. Gregory and W. S. Duff. Runs came at
the rate of 2 a minute till at 162, when 71 had been added in
38mins., Duff (62) fell to a catch by J. Carew. Board here
showed 2 for 160 and it was anticipated that total woula
be big, but wickets now toppled over like ninepins until the
seventh, when only 29 more had been put on. Gregory
(49 made in 50mins.) was caught. Deane and Bowden
increased the score by 77 in 40min., shaping brilliantly,
the latter going first (caught) for 54, having exhibited
the most vigorous and taking batting so far. The total
(280) was built in 3hr. 25min. Aboriginal Henry secured
3 for 86. Byrne accounted for 5 at a cost of 100.
With 50mins. playing time Q. scored 75 for one out.
Crouch (43, not out) and Patrick (20) made 58 for the first
wicket in 35min.
* • • •
Clem Hill has not made a decent score in an
inter-State match since he was made captain of S.A. XI.,
and he failed miserably in the recent Adelaide match,
when a little of his old form might have helped his team
to victory. There is a “don’t-care” aspect about his
batting which irritates his old admirers.
* * * *
Queensland aboriginal cricketer Henry is easily
the fastest trundler in Australia. He stands over 6ft.,
is about as stout as a sapling, and when bowling fields
mostly all the strokes in front of the wicket. Like
N.S.W. aboriginal Marsh, he doesn’t like too much work.
* * * •
Stated that “Paddy” Carew, with the Q.
cricketers in Svdney, will shortly shift to the Harbor city
and shape for Paddington. Paddy has played football for
both Queensland and Australia.
• • • •
The French professional cyclist, Leon Georget,
succeeded in lowering the following world’s records on a
Massey Harris bicycle, manufactured by the Canada
Cycle and Motor Co., Ltd. :
NEW RECORD. OLD RECORD.
50 kilometres .. 51min. 49 2-ssec. 53min. 36 l-ssec.
100 „ .. 105 „ 27 „ 108 „ 51 „
100 miles (Eng.) .. 180 „ 17 ~ 187 ~ 00 „
200 kilometres .. 260 „ Over 6 hours.
The 100 kilometre record, which was the hardest to beat,
required an average speed of upwards of 36 miles per
hour, while at times Georget was travelling at the
phenomenal rate of over 45 miles per hour.
■ • • *
Major Taylor commences operations on Satur-
day under N.S.W. League’s auspices in the Australasian
Quarter-mile supremacy. There are 18 entrants, and
Don Walker is expected to shake up the colored gent, con-
siderably, if he doesn’t beat him. Walker is in the pink of
condition, while Taylor is fresh from a sea-voyage and
not yet acclimatised.
• • • •
M.L. Govt, swooped down on strong man
Sandow with income-tax on his takings. It was only in
July last year that Seddon’s financial sleuth-hounds
dropped to the leak and stopped it with an additional
regulation ; and now the squeal of the strong man in his
agony is terrible to hear. The hard-up Australian
Governments should take a leaf out of M.L.’s book, as
there is no reason why the highly-paid mummer of
passage shouldn’t pay as well as the local actor.
« • » *
Writes “ E.D.” : —“ A fact little known is that
although Sydney swimmers introduced the double-over-
arm stroke to Sydney, they brought it from Newcastle,
N.S.W., where it originated and flourished —as far as
N.S.W. is concerned—whilst metropolitan natators were
pulling themselves through the water with the now out-
of-date side-arm stroke. I believe many-times-life-saver
Trelevan invented it for ‘breaker’ swimming off ‘Reef,’
Newcastle. The method was extensively copied by water-
lovers in that city, and used with much effect in sprints and
polo. About 12 years ago Sydney’s racing fraternity were
invited to take part in a big gala in the ‘ grimy’ city, and
were much surprised at the ugly, crab-fashion way of
swimming and its attendant splash, but all the same they
had to go all they knew to keep their end up when
racing, and were scampered over at polo. The
old way of coming at the ball like a blue-
pointer snatching food—never had a chance against
the man on his chest with both arms practically
free. A longtime elapsed after the stroke was introduced
into Sydney ere the rough edges were polished off. Late
‘ Jim ’ Tooher stepped strongly in this direction and
‘ Jack ’ Hellings made it look easy, but it was reserved
for present-day champion Lane to perfect the double
over-arm method. The much-debated ‘ crawl ’is any-
thing but new. Often heard one-time champion Leo say
‘ Paddy ’ Gormly and the lot of us, always ‘ crawled ’ a
close finish, yet never dreamt of its possibilities.”
• • • •
Both swimmers Read and Dick Cavill are in-
capacitated. Read has developed a floating knee-cap, and
n •„ Irvine to fix a jambed revolver, got a bullet in
hfs wrist on Boxing Day. The bullet has since been
nis . Presumably some third rater will now mop
up£he rtt of X season’s prizes, the 100, 220 and Half
mile premierships. 0 , *
Looks now as if something big in sculling will
eventuate ere long. Whilom Shoalhaven man Jim Wray
fin U S ) has a backer who intimates that he’ll
find B £soo for the Australian to meet champion of the
and will cover any sum posted with
Svdnev Referee on the understanding that l the match
Ukes place in Australia Wray must be allowed £lOO
expenses, and if Towns agrees to go ’Murkawards a like
sum wiH be £ iven hirn ' T ° WnS SayS . h l ll * agreeaMe and
fan find the backing, but some of the Yankee money
must be in sight ere the matter is seriously considered-
it isn’t good enough that Wray’s party has its deposit
up with the Boston Globe. Wray went to England some
months ago with bookmaker Beales and Jim Stanbury,
and after remaining there some time, accepted a position
as instructor to a swell rowing club in Boston where he
has been ever since.
* * *
H Sutton has knocked another Victorian
record out. In Melbournian Harriers 1 mile open handi-
cap on Exhibition track t’other night he brought the
figures down to 4.35. Melbourne harrier W. Cumming
held Vic. mile’s best (4.36 4-5) for years until Sutton
clipped 2-ssec. off it in Nov. last; remeasurement of the
track revealed that it was 18yds. in excess of the
distance, making the effort equal to 4.34._ Interesting in
the connec ion that Australian mile best is 4.25, made in
’9l by Sydney harrier J. F. Dalrymple.
* * *
Latest London advices are that amateur Mr.
F. P. Gruhn, last month, set the world’s brawn and thew
something to go up against. Essaying the task of wiping
out previous best (2651 b.) for bar-bell weight-lifting, he
succeeded in hoistingf at arm s-length above the shoulder
the stupendous load of 2911 b.
Bruising struggle at Sydney National last week
’tween Melbourne Jack Willis and Sydney footballer
Arthur Cripps—an undoubted comer—was only exciting
in flashes. Generally it consisted of clinching and
cuddling, with Willis mostly throwing all his weight
on to Cripps, and the latter endeavoring to push
him off without risk. Cripps offended similarly at
times. Betting favored the Sydney man through-
out. A humorous spectacle was that of Willis
hanging on to the enemy with one arm and hold-
ing the other up in mute appeal to the referee while
Cripps punched away merrily. The crowd hooted
lustily, and the referee sent the men to their cor-
ners, cautioning Cripps that if he did the same thing
again he would be disqualified. Rot ! Cripps committed
no breach at all ; his action was fair in every way, and is
allowed by the rules. In the 17th round, when most of
the crowd were asleep, or nearly so,Cripps suddenly landed
a heavy right hook and dropped his man, who rose inside
the allotted time, but was so palpably out of the hunt
that the referee called a halt, and gave the money and
the honors (such as they were) to Cripps. The “ curtain-
raiser” fairly laid over the big thing. Bantams Green
and Moroney fought like cats for four rounds, during
which it, one moment, looked any odds on Green and
then on Moroney, till the latter cried enough in his
corner.
* • • *
At Sydney Gaiety last week, “ Charlie ” Frost
and Lyn Truscott fought 14 rounds, throughout which
Truscott mostly led. He might have won, but that police
interference gave the referee no alternative but to call it
a draw. Each had a chance as long as he stood up, and
20 rounds was the limit. Why copperdom interfered is
puzzling, as neither combatant was sorely pressed or
very much damaged. Truscott isn’t a punisher by any
means, and he was too clever to let Frost damage him.
» * * •
A slab of Yankee pug journalism :—“After a
spell of fiddling, the Kid unhooked a brace of chops,
planting one, but getting a dug on the slats in return
from Muggsy’s dexter maulie ! The King learned things
and grew cagey, his ramrod left putting many a flock of
swings to flight. Suddenly he unlashed a wallop that
gave Muggsy’s observations an astronomical tinge, and
also donated a cauliflower ear to the Limerick lad’s tout
ensemble by dropping the good one over.”
Luxuries.
The doctor is a luxury that thousands and
thousands of people can ill afford. The'
necessity of calling one in is considered a calamity
when so many people find it difficult to make
ends meet to secure the necessities of life. By
taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills after eating,
and before going to bed, serious sickness is
averted. The stomach is kept clean, and the
liver and kidneys in proper working order. They
are a perfect blood purifier, and make it rich and
red. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a positive
cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipation,
headaches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, boils, and blotches, and
for female ailments. Put up in amber bottles,
and the full name blown thereon, and sold
throughout Australasia.


ICE! ICE!
The hot stifling Summer days are approaching.
. SSr ““ ~ -“szzb&STSz; ssu
t.-SfSS'SSS”'KKsrewr is km
Deliveries regular by special carts in Sydney and goborbe.
THE N.S.W, FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Take a Minute.
Write a post-card to tu asking for our Bicyol* Ont&logm
Ask Massey=Harris Riders
What they think of our Bioyolw.
And Think a Bit.
Compare the quality with the best Bioyole you know
we 11 take the ohances of your decision.
Of Or can find,
CANADA CYCLE & fIOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches in Every State.
357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 ios. to £is
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
CORSET SHIELDS
PATENT
tM'(?Ar/s"
(aaerSmeu
f^‘'6kUS
cnßsaSmtio
DOUBLE
THE LIFE
OF YOUR
CORSET
“Prevention is better than Cure”
and the Oktis Corset Shields, put into a new Corset, prevent split seams
and broken bones, and more especially that ugly ridge that so soon
appears, and spoils the appearance of the best fitting gown.
It does not Increase the Size of the Waist
Ask for the OKTIS, and see that you ar e „ o °£ JS? ltatlonB '
On each one appears the name P. &S. OKTIS P. «S.
Concerning an apparent “ crib
A set of verses, “ Punchin’,” by “ Quilp N.” in the
Xmas Bulletin, appeared a year before in Sydney T. and
0. Journal, illustrated by a M.L. draughtsman. Their
publication bv The B. was due to inadvertence. Origi-
nally submitted to The 8., they were forwarded by us to
George Lambert, in Paris, for illustration. Under the
impression that they had been rejected by The 8., the
writer submitted them to the ,T. and 0. which printed
them, and, in ignorance of that fact, The B. published
them with Lambert’s original picture. The fact of having
given publication to that picture is our only consolation
for an incident which at first sight must have looked like
a shameless “ crib ” from a contemporary.
There has not been a more interesting
Australian book published for a long time than
“Bushman and Buccaneer” —giving the life and
writings of Harry Morant (“The Breaker”).
Every bushman will want to buy a copy for the
sake of the complete collection of “The Breaker’s”
verses which it contains. The book gives a photo-
graphic reproduction of the “ copy ” of Morant’s
last verses, written in gaol, and many illustrations,
from authentic photographs, of the Bushveldt
Carbineers’ operations. Price one shilling.
Wholesale from Edwards Dunlop and Co., Syd-
ney.— Advt.
THE DIFFERENT PREPARATIONS OF
“SALVITIS
rOR HORSES, CATTLE, SHEEP,
PICS, &C. ARE WORTH TRYING !
SALVITIS Index of Diseases, Free.
Remedies suggested in this Column promptly supplied
by Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
“SALVITIS”
Ensures abundance
of EGGS and
Healthy Poultry.
USED BY LEADING BREEDERS— I/-, 5/-, 10/-, 20/-
SALVITIS ROUP PILLS, 1/6 per box -
Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
Victorian hotel-keepers are advised to dis-
trust a certain individual who introduces himself
for bed and board purposes as “Edmund Fisher,
of The Bulletin” (in Melbourne). The bogus
Fisher was wearing knickerbockers and glasses
the last time he left his little bill unpaid.
Mr. C. H. COMPTON, Olive Hill, Ky.,
writes :—
“ I tried Jayne’s Expectorant for A COLD OF LONG
STANDING, which HAD BECOME SERIOUS, and in a
very short time I was COMPLETELY CURED."
An Adelaide dentist lately advertised for
“ the two front teeth of a dark-haired young
woman,” and the price offered, <£10, was soon
accepted. He says that they will take root and
grow in the mouth of the buyer ; also, that fair
and dark people have teeth quite distinct in ap
pearance.
Writes “ M.P.” :—
There is something contemptible in the shifting of Vic.
State Parliament back to its original Parliament House,
not for a permanency, but until the Federal Parliament
comes to resume possession of the premises. If the costly
“Houses" which Peacock fitted up at the Exhibition
building are good enough for the Vic. Parliament at any
time they should be considered good enough for all time
that the Federal Legislature is established in Melbourne.
If Premier Irvine and Co. were troubled with a
proper self respect they would perceive the indignity
to which they subject their provincial Parliament
by putting it in the position of caretaker to the Federal
institution, instead of giving it a fixed habitation at the
place which Peacock furnished so extravagantly. And
why, in the name of Australia’s National Debt, must
Irvine and Co. devote themselves to wearing out the
furniture at the old Spring-street establishment, whilst
the newly-fitted apartments at the Exhibition Building
stand tenantless, waiting for some distant day when
their magnificence will be sold off by auction at an
alarming sacrifice ? This shifting of 150 provincial legis-
lators from one “pitch" to another serves no purpose,
save the gratification of a puerile vanity. They are not
asserting a “ right.” The present Vic. Parliament has no
claim to an occasional occupancy of the building dedi-
cated to the use of the Federal Parliament 18 months
ago. Irvine and the rest of them presume on Premier
Barton’s weak good nature, and popular opinion in Mel-
bourne emphatically darns their impudence.
Missing Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of ANDY MILLON,
who left Taihape, North Island, New
Zealand, some 6 years ago, or any friend
knowing his whereabouts, would he or they kindly
communicate with the undersigned, who will
supply news of beneficial character.
G. N. JENSEN,
Taihape,
North Island, New Zealand.
IF JOHN WILLIAM MATTINSON,
son of the late JOHN WILLIAM MAT-
TINSON, of Toowoomba, Commission Agent,
will communicate with the undersigned he will
hear of something to his advantage.
UNMACK NIOOL ROBINSON & FOX,
Solicitors,
272 Queen Street, Brisbane.
RALPH WILSON, late of Australia and
United States, America, died November
9th, 1902, in Johannesburg.
Any relatives please write.
Box 1056 CROWN DEEP,
Johannesburg, Transvaal,
South Africa.
A Perth (W.A.) resident and his wife
recently returned home late and found a son of
Israel under the bed. The Hebrew burglar was
let off with two months —possibly because the
bench felt shocked and sorrowful at this evidence
of the decline in the mozzle of an ancient and
nrosperous race. Surely the Westralian cat that
used to float so gaily must have sunk for good
when a Jew takes to burglary !
X10R the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE OOFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King 1 Street Coffee Palace,” ~»i
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
7-
-pOR NIGH A CENTURY
r WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR
has been the FAITHFUL FRIEND of the
TONSORIAL ARTIST.
TO-DAY, The Potent Phrase, “THIS SHOP USES ONLY
WILLIAMS’!” is a Sure PASSPORT TO PUBLIC FAVOR,
Send a Penny Stamp for Williams’ Changing Face
Puzzle. Can you explain it? J. B. WILLIAMS CO.,
Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A. ; and 232 01arenee-st., Sydney
SHARPSHOOTIH6
•77 yv
For Sport and War.
By W. W. CREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/. nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. CREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNB and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Represei titive).
Compliments
of the
Season
to all
Cyclists,
mi
Ring Out the news
Dumiop Tyres
OUTRAGE & OUTLAST
• • All Other Tyres
FOR EITHER ROAD OR TRACK RIDING.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for Twelve Months.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRB CO. OP AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch (N.Z.)
Only Genuine
Tube
bear
this
Trade Mark.


BETTER THAN Ist GLASS
Absolutely PULMAN!
1-
L
T
K
X
' OGDEN’S
‘GUINEA-GOLD'
CIGARETTES.
Purest Cigarette on the Market.
Our Photo. Albums are Free.
All you have to do is to get 100 of the cards which are packed with Guinea Gold, Otto de Rose, or Silver Veil Cigarettes, bring them to ns, and we will
hand you a Pretty Photo, Album, made especially to hold the Photos. If you live out of town, mail to the undermentioned address, and we will send the Album
by return (post free).
OGDEN’S, LIMITED, 45 York-street, Sydney.
Showing how the gospel has brought a
holy calm to Tanunda (S.A.), the place where
they make real wine-brandy:—
In the little German township of Tanunda (S. A.), which
has fewer than 600 inhabitants, there are four Lutheran
churches. They are entirely distinct from each other,
and are controlled by synods which, although agreeing
on the general points of the Lutheran dogma, have each
some particular principle to which they cling most
tenaciously. From these slight differences has arisen
much contention, and now there are families in this
otherwise happy little centre which are rent asunder by
religious disputations. So bitter indeed has the con.
troversy become that one pastor recently issued a pam-
phlet in which he laid a ban on any of his flock inter-
marrying with the members of any other synod. There
is an independent church, and the other three are con-
trolled respectively by “ Die Evangelish Lutherische
Synode von Australien,” and “ Die Emmanuel Synode,”
and “ Die Emmanuel Synode Auf Alter Grundlage.” One
of these synods discussed for a long time the possibility
of uniting these branches of the Lutheran Church in Aus-
tralia, but the breach only grew wider. The chief matter
in dispute is the doctrine of the millennium. There is no
doubt that the general body of the residents earnestly
desire to see these factions healed. As one German resi-
dent remarked, “ If these Churches would but amalga-
mate, we could have one big Church that would be a
credit to Tanunda.” One of these Synods is particularly
bellicose. At a recent meeting of that particular Synod,
two pastors, named Heidenerich (father and son), who
were in charge of churches under its control, were
arraigned for refusing to discontinue to subscribe to the
Kopperamanna andFinke River Aboriginal Mission, which
is connected with another of the Synods, whose religious
beliefs are slightly at variance with their own. Even
when threatened with excommunication, these pastors
refused to withhold their contribution. Accordingly, a
resolution that they be excommunicated was proposed,
and over 200 voted in favor of it, but there was a minority
of about 30. Here the president of the Synod found him-
self in a quandary. The rules prescribed that a resolution
for excommunication must be carried unanimously. At
last he hit upon an expedient. “Will those members,”
he asked, “ who voted against the motion kindly leave
the room for a minute, and we will then put the motion
again ? Strange to say, this request was agreed to, and
the two pastors were excommunicated. They were
allowed three months’ grace in which to revise their
opinions, but, as they have the support of their congrega-
tions, they can afford to disregard the action of the Synod,
for their stipends go on all the same.
HAVE VOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
mav be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
flousemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on »
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
FREE! FREE!
/
s
y
Cut this out and send it to us, and we will send you
free, postage prepaid, in plain wrapper, a copy of the
New Edition of our splendid, invaluable and standard
illustrated medical work, “Electro Therapeutics,”
which acknowledged medical treatise should be read by
every adult.
The Twentieth Century Belt
Our Improved Belt is the most modern and perfect in the world. It
is stronger than any other, and is a Certain Cure for All Cases of
Nervous Disorders, Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver, Kidney
and Stomach Troubles, Coine-and-Go Pains, and that Tired Peeling. It
will cure after all others fail. Our Belt gives a soothing, warm,
strengthening and delightful current of electricity into the afflicted
nerves and system while you sleep. It never blisters or burns the body,
because it is constructed to give electricity in a proper way.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
Others claim this, but I am the only one who will really send a
valuable belt absolutely free, on trial, for three months. If you are
cured I know you will willingly pay; if you are not cured, you will not
have to pay one penny. Write at once, or call and test my Belt free.
No charge for personal consultation.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
m
■ s
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALFALINE Vitality Pills which have cured m„nv
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how lona- standing end to Jill
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CH ARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t desnair hut
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free ° U °
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases.
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at
RASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
once communicate with HERR
ALF ALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 23s 6d
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes 1s
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail • 6s per box each
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from ... fr M im
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office— IxeOFge St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW- «/ f/ “
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N Z. = 91 Lambton Qaay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORLIE: 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.


Dickens’s story of " The Seven Poor
Travellers” deals touchingly with the combina-
tion of honesty and humbug in English national
character. One Richard Watts, of Rochester, in
the year 1579, left means for the endowment of a
charity, whereby Six Poor Travellers, not being
Rogues or Proctors (Watts was evidently antagon-
istic to the Devil’s Brigade) might receive gratis,
for one night, lodging, entertainment, and four-
pence each. The charity had, in a sense, been
faithfully administered by succeeding generations
of trustees up to 1854, when Dickens stumbled
across it. Every night of the year six men re-
ceived fourpence each from the salaried steward
of the trust. Then they went across to the house
of “entertainment” and ate the food they had
bought with their fourpences in a comfort-
able room, and subsequently retired to rest
in two little outer galleries at the back ;
the rest of the house being sacred to the matron in
charge and the blessed guardians of the charity,
who had a well-furnished board-room on the pre-
mises. The printed accounts of the charity were
ostentatiously displayed in the board-room, “and
from them 1 gathered,” said Charles Dickens,
“ that the greater part of the property bequeathed
by Master Richard Watts, for the maintenance of
this foundation, was, at the period of his death,
mere marshland, but that, in course of time, it
had been reclaimed and built upon, and was very
considerably increased in value. I found, too,
that about a thirtieth part of the annual revenue was
now expended on the purposes commemorated in
the inscription over the door ; the rest being hand-
somely laid out in chancery, law-expenses, collector-
ship, receivership, poundage, and other appendages
of management, highly complimentary to the im-
portance of the Six Poor Travellers. In short, I
made the not entirely new discovery that it may
be said of an establishment like this, in dear old
England, as of the fat oyster in the American
story, that it takes a good many men to swallow
it whole.” The administration of Richard Watts’s
trust, according to the letter of his will, had been
honest for three centuries. Nobody embezzled
the cash or jobbed the property away. But the
respectable, steady-going managers of the estate
had departed from the spirit of the Watts’s will
and testament to the extent of about twenty-nine
pence in every half a-crown of the revenue they
handled. A superstructure of solemn humbug on
a basis of hard integrity. That’s English national
character.
W. Oliver Richards,
Proprietor and Inventor of
02NT WAIT
F2R THIS
Capilla Hair Tonic
lam a Specialist and the Hair and Scalp are my Specialities. I
have devoted years of my life to perfecting my knowledge on
these subjects and in bringing my preparation to perfection.
ADVICE ON AND TREATMENT OF THE HAIR.
A fee of ss. is charged for advice in addition to the Capilla used, and if I undertake your case I guarantee
to cure baldness —no matter how long you have been bald—or refund the money you have paid me —in full.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Proprietor, Gty Bank Chambers* 164 Pitt Street* Sydney.
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
w
u
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
A Great
Saving
HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS
I ETC.
CRATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the best and simplest
Machine in the market. DW Prick
£3O
TUBES CONTAIN 571bs. GAS.
CAPACITY OF CYLINDERS IOOALS. WATER.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Smaller Machines on same Principle, £2O.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials from
people who have used the Machine fur years.
Office: 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
Practical and
Economical
The Oldsmobile is the most
practical and economical gaso-
line runabout you can buy.
It can be delivered here for
a very reasonable price. It
sells in America for $650.00 and the ocean freight is not large.
No experience is required to run it—the construction is simple—
no intricate machinery, no boiler to burn out.
Oldsmobile
is almost noiseless, attains a speed of 25 miles an hour goes 30
miles on one gallon of gasoline—climbs steep hills, runs over any
passable road —is always ready for instant use —economical to operate
starts at ease from the seat —5,000 are now in daily use.
Write us at once and we will send you a handsome descriptive book,
and make you a price delivered at your nearest port for quick delivery.
Agents wanted in unoccupied foreign territory.
Olds Motor Works, Detroit, Mich., U. S* Am
“IT’S A MARVEL!”
EVERY WOMAN
_^nn
HH
MM
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Kudorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO.
OF AUSTRALIA.
Camden Building, 418 George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Wlanuf. Company,
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNE .
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUSGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Sp.ring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
And everv description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order! HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
OUK SI’KCIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Oolirored lit any WHnrf or
>'.S.W. Uailnay*, Station
£lO 10/-
What the PIANOLA does.
THE ... .
PIANOLA. .
enables you to
play your piano
although you
may never have
played one note
in your life.
This would
*.•
a
'4
111
V
A
seem impossible, but nevertheless it is true.
If you will write us we will mail you free
a catalogue explaining how.
Ask for Catalogue “ B.”
The price of the Pianola is £65, on
moderate monthly payments, or £6O for
prompt cash.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
SYDNEY: 323 GEORGE-ST.
MELBOURNE: JB5-187 COLLINS-ST*
§1
TheGANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Oanz Direct Current Air-Propeller. 80LE AGENTS i
The ||ustrai Qtis Engineering go., [td., South (||elb.
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World
Renowned
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I’O DEFY COMPBTITIOKT.
WINES rhe Besl on,a 01 SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
SUOND
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures,
and Verses.
’rice 1/1
Post
Free.
By FRANK RENAR.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney


Amusements.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
L essee Mr. Wra. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. • • Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
Up-to-date and Full of Local Interest and Color,
BLAND HOLT’S Australian Melodrama,
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
T*o"”LAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
qrITErToN THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager .. •• Mr. Frank Weathersby.
‘ EVERY EVENING, at 7.45.
MATINEES Every WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY, 2 p.m.
The Operatic Dramatic Spectacular Pantomime,
C X TNT IX E XX ELL A.
C I TNT 33 E XX ELL A,
The Crystal Slipper
and the Little Girl who put her foot in it
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as Baron Bounder.
10 COMEDIANS. 10
Good old-fashioned
CLOWN, PANTALOON & HARLEQUINADE.
SPECIAL MATINEE—
THURSDAY (NEW YEAR’S DAY), at 2 p.m.
Pricea—3B., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box Plan Nicholson’s.
Is. will be charged for booking and early doors.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Under the Sole Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
Manager, Mr. T. P. Hudson.
A Great & Glorious Reception of GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
in the Successful and Romantic Comic Opera,
MARIANA, or the 30 THIEVES.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Nicholson’s.
ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees Messrs. Lee and Rial.
Under the Direction of MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
DOROTHY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. S£T PRICES AS USUAL.
QENTENARY HALL, YORK STREET.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
M’ADOO’S FISK
JUBILEE SIN6ERS.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, BETTER THAN EVER.
Re-appearance of
MR. M. H. HODGES, the Eminent Baritone.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
IVAN JAMES, Advance Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Splendid Success of MISS GRACIE EMMETT & CO. in a
New and Original Comedy,
“ MRS. MURPHY’S SECOND HUSBAND.”
THE HARVEY BOYS.
MISS F. SPRY, MR. B. S. MONTI,' JENNIE OPIE,
MALVENA MOORE. EILEEN BOYD, CLARENCE
SISTERS, ELSIE M'LACHLAN, ERNEST SULLIVAN,
and all our Great Tivoli Co.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
WALLACE BROWN LOW.
THE MONTROSE TROUPE.
A. G. SPRY. FRED. POPLAR. KITTY WAGER.
LES WARTON. WELBY COOKE.
Pnoeg—2s. 6d., 25., Is. TES Plain at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
GRAND HOLIDAY ATTRACTION.
MISS NELLIE STEWART in two New London Sensa-
tions in one evening. The Finest Comedy of the London
Season, A COUNTRY MOUSE, and THE PANTOMIME
REHEARSAL, a Musical Absurdity.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON'S Famous Dramatic Organisation
GRAND HOLIDAY PRODUCTION,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
A STUPENDOUS ATTRACTION.
Reappearance of MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Prices —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
GRAND PANTOMIME COMBINATION in
DICK WHITTINGTON AND HIS CAT.
Gorgeous Scenery, Costumes and Appointments
and Startling Novelties.
Entrancing Music rendered by an Opera Chorus and an
Opera Orchestra.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
pITZGERALD BROS.’
HUGE CIRCUS & MENAGERIE,
The Central Amusement Institution of Australasia.
JUST ACROSS PRINCE’S BRIDGE, ST. KILDA RD., MELB.
LAST FIVE NIGHTS of AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST
MENAGERIE.
LAST FIVE NIGHTS of LIZZIE, THE WONDERFUL
ELEPHANT, “AJAX,” THE HUNGARIAN HORSES,
BARTON and THE BUCKJUMPING HORSES, THE
RIDING TIGER, DICK TURPIN’S RIDE, and a host of
Amazing and Amusing Novelties.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and One Shilling. Children half-
price to all parts (except the pit).
FRANK JONES, Representative.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
And by
Special Appointment
Mrs. William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Danoln?, Deportment, Graceful
“ a, ' r T* B - Etiquette and CalMbenio Exerolees.
The Latest Society Skirt jDances. Classes arranged for at
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended.
«... Cl * s * eB *» all suburbs. Prospectus—
Ellerslie,” 100 Nicbolson-st., Fitzroy.
The Last Ditch.
Q. Govt, papers are hard hit by the Federal
Government’s figures which show an amount of
£24,067 paid in rebate on 104,683 tons of cane
grown by white labor in districts where it was
boldly averred that white labor among cane was
an impossibility. Said journals now raise the cry,
" Does the Federal Government know that this
canehas been partly raised through the labor of white
women and children t ” It is not at all likely
that men accustomed to the brutalising influences
of kanaka-self labor would scruple to employ
their women-folk and children in the cane— if it
paid them to do so. But women and boys have
worked among the cane (on small plantations) for
years past, and therefore they will not now be suffer-
ing any additional hardship. On the contrary, they
will not now be degraded by having to work
beside Kanakas, and surely that is something to
be thankful for! If it be degrading for a white
man to labor beside a Polynesian on a cane-farm,
it is surely much more degrading for a white
woman to have to do so. “ Surely,” says Brisbane
Telegraph, ‘ ‘ anyone would rather see the Kanaka
in the canefield than women and children.” The
Telegraph prudently omits to mention that
hitherto, in some districts, you could see Kanakas,
white women and children all laboring together
on cane-farms. And the pro-Kanaka organs are
all so abnormally stupid that they fail to see that
they are now admitting that work can be done
by white women and children which they asserted,
a short time ago, was absolutely impossible to a
white mem 111
«
From England comes news of the death
of Arthur Hodgson. The son of a Hertfordshire
parson. Hodgson served three years in the navy
as a midshipman. In 1840 he came to Sydney,
but struck out for Moreton Bay as a pioneer. He
was a man of grit—when people would not go to
Etonvale, his station, for mutton, he brought
that article into Brisbane and sold legs in the
streets at a shilling each. Hodgson married a
daughter of James Dowling, second Chief
Justice of N.S.W. A few months ago ex-D.C.
Judge Dowling died, and while he still lay un-
coflined came news of the death of his sister,
Hodgson’s wife. Last week another son (Vincent)
of the old Chief Justice died, and while he awaited
burial came the news of the death of Arthur
Hodgson, at the age of 84 years. Thus have
passed four of the family within seven months.
“ Pyalla ” on one of the Sydney Xmaa
tragedies :
On Boxing Day two seamen of the pilot steamer
Captain Cook lost their lives while attempting the senti-
mental task of rescuing a dead body. It was extremely
dangerous to approach the spot by sea Qwing to the
jobble caused by a strong N.-E. wind ; and there was no
need to do so as the body could have been easily
obtained by way of the cliffs. Then, after the
pilot steamer had sent a boat’s crew to the rocks,
ft steamed away some miles to put a pilot aboard an in-
coming Yankee transport. It was during the interim
that the boat capsized. Surely it was the steamer’s duty
to stand by its boat’s crew, and let the Yankee wait.
Lastly, it is questionable whether the men that manned
the boat were qualified boatmen. They were mostly
new hands. According to a rule of the Navigation
Dept., none but A.B. seamen can be permanently em-
ployed on the pilot steamer. Now, it is a well-known fact
that, as a rule, seamen know little of handling small
boats. And the principal part of the duty of the crew of
the pilot-steamer in question consists in manning the
small boats that tranship the pilots. The Board of Navi-
gation should drop what is a foolish rule, and make boat-
manship the first qualification for the pilot service.
[ln one respect this letter surely contradicts
itself. Pilots—most experienced seamen—who
have to be transhipped in all weathers—aren’t
such fools as to entrust their lives to inexpert
boatmen.—Ed. B.]
The huge Humbert' swindle bristles with
features that would be scouted in the pages
of romance. The central figure of the weird
imbroglio, a peasant-born woman named Daurig-
iiac, became the wife of the son of a distinguished
French lawyer ; and having, according to her own
account, been of some service to an American
millionaire named Crawford, she was made his
sole heir—
And was thereby raised from modest comfort, perhaps
from even genteel poverty, to wealth almost beyond the
dreams of avarice, for he gave her every dollar he had in
the world, and every dollar amounted to the gigantic
sum of £4,000,000--i(X),000,OOOf. ! And on the strength
of this imaginary will of a millionaire who had never
existed —the further complications of the two mysterious
nephews, either of whom was anxious to marry Mme.
Humbert’s sister, which made the great swindle possible,
themselves depend upon this —she succeeded in borrow-
ing upwards of £2,000,000, in owning one of the finest
mansions in Paris, a fine chateau in the country, a mag-
nificent art collection, a luxurious yacht, a vineyard near
Narbonne, property near Tunis, the life tenure of the
finest box at the opera, and, in short, everything that un-
limited wealth could give her.
There was alleged or supposed to be in Madame
Humbert’s house an iron safe, containing money
and securities representing the Crawford millions,
and in connection with the quest after the con-
tents of this safe no fewer than 10 persons have
suicided or been assassinated. One of these, a
banker named Girard, had lent Mme. Humbert
£225,000 ; and, after the infatuated man had shot
himself, the woman bought, at the sale of his
effects, £40,000 worth of furniture and plate for
her own dining-room. “ The most astute business
men, ” it is stated, “ fell victims to her ” :
Two Paris jewellers were her creditors when she dis-
appeared—one for £160,000 and the other for £72,000.
From M. Schotsmans (who poisoned himself) she had
£280,000, from the Credit Foncier £45,000, and one of her
solicitors had an annual income of £24,000 out of her
litigation. The worst of her swindles —the Rente Viagere
—was an insurance office, the chief business of which was
to sell annuities to small people. Like all the great
geniuses who understand the boundless folly of mankind
and trade upon it, Madame Humbert knew how to appeal
to religious sentiment. In the almanac of the Rente
Viagere, accordingly, the portrait of the Pope, with his
hand lifted in blessing the faithful, looks out at the in-
tending investor. This society lasted for ten years ; it
received in deposits it is said, some two millions sterling.
The fact that the Humberts—the boss swindlers
of the century—who have been wanted for about
eight months, have been found no further off than
Madrid, where they seem to have resided ever
since they fled from the scene of their unexampled
crimes, doesn’t say much for the Parisian police.
It doesn’t say much for the Spanish police either.
There were six of the Humbert party, all well-
known ; they don’t seem to have disguised them-
selves to any extent ; and Madrid is only a little
larger than Sydney. Even after eight months the
police didn’t find them —the usual anonymous
letter gave them away. The average Australian
bush constable couldn’t have had worse luck than
the Parisian detective force in this matter.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimpfes, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine deve’opes a lovely skin.
Ib. bottles. Made in London.*
At Poverty Point.
Jimmy Cathcart (who died last week at the respectable
age of 75) and his sister Fanny were the children—
perhaps the grandchildren —of actors. Their brother,
Rowley Cathcart, who is still understood to be living in
England, was for many years stage-manager to the
Kendals, and the son of old Rowley was stage-manager
for Wilson Barrett on his first Australian tour. Among
the oldest theatrical names that have held an unbroken
association with the English-speaking stage the name of
Cathcart would be included with Kemble, Farren, and
Emery in the most notable quartette.
“Ami” : James Faucit Cathcart, who is dead at last,
was named after manager Faucit Savile, Helen Faucit s
sire. James dropped in for a good thing with his first
London appearance (1850), at the Princess’s, with the
Keans. A plump double was wanted for Mrs. Keans
Viola, in the Sebastian of “ Twelfth Night,” and Cath-
cart filled the bill. His inexhaustible mine of reminis-
cence was over the gorgeous productions of the “ Tem-
pest,” “ Midsummer Night’s Dream,” “ Winter’s Tale,’
“Sardanapalus,” “Henry VIII,” “Henry V,” “Mac-
beth,” “Richard II,” and “King John.” This was the
Kohinoor time of his existence. Towards the close of
’54, his sister, bright Fanny Cathcart, sprang up as a
leading lady, with G. V. Brooke. Coppin successfully
urged upon the Cathcarts to let her go to Australia. He
went on first in the s.s. Argo, with his Olympic theatre,
the “Iron Pot,” in case he could not make terms
with the much-Mayored Jacky Tommy Smith, as
proprietor of the Queen’s. The tin playhouse up
Ooppin’s sleeve made J.T.S. amenable to reason,
so that when Mr. and Mrs. G. V. Brooke, Fanny Cathcart
and R. Younge came along, in s.s. Pacific, the Queen’s
was available, and Coppin rigged the Olympic at leisure,
opening it with Wizard Jacobs. A fresh element appeared
on the scene in Robert Heir, a young fellow taught by
Fanny. They married, and left the Olympic for the oppo-
sition shop at the new Theatre Royal. An acrimonious
newspaper correspondence ensued, in the Argus, wherein
Heir wrote that Mr. Coppin, then a widower, had been
paying his addresses to Miss Cathcart, wherefore their
position at the theatre had become impossible. Nathless
there was soon a reconciliation, and the Artful Dodger
rubbed his hands over enormous houses. It was eight
years ere James Cathcart saw his sister and her hus-
band. Then came a curious situation. Cathcart was sup-
porting Mr. and Mrs. Kean at Coppin’s Haymarket, while
Barry Sullivan tried to crush them, at the Royal, sup-
ported by Mr. and Mrs. Heir. However, Cathcart and
Heir were chums from the start. It was always “ Jimmy ”
and “Bob” between them. Whichever theatre was
done first you would see the cab rush round from the
Royal stage door to the Haymarket, or vice versa. Sweet
Fanny was the happiest of the trio. What a close like-
ness there was between her and Cathcart, even to the
same rich, fruity voice 1 After years of Bassanio, lago,
Macduff, and so forth, with Kean, Cathcart took up the
same mantles as Barry Sullivan’s Elisha. But indeed
Barry was infinitely greater than Elijah ! Cathcart, on
Fanny’s urgent solicitation, returned to Australia in ’79.
He opened at Melb. Roval as Richard 111., from Shake-
speare’s text, with no Cibber. The last part he acted
in Melb. was the Judge, in Wilson Barrett’s “ Man
and his Makers.” Cathcart married early in Lon-
don. His wife had nothing to do with the stage;
neither had any of his somewhat numerous children.
One son has held a high Government appointment in
London. Cathcart was reticent about his family. I
think he became somewhat estranged from them during
his long absence in 1864-5, and they objected to his
coming to Australia in the first instance. Just one
incident. About 1852 Cathcart enacted the hero in
Boucicault’s comedietta of the “ Prima Donna,” at the
Princess’s. The female interest was divided between
Miss Heath and Agnes Robertson, Mrs. Kean’s ward.
(Miss Heath, married Wilson Barrett.) Mrs. Kean urged
Miss Robertson to accept the then Earl of Hopetoun,
who was infatuated with her, and offered his hand.
However, Agnes went off to America with Boucicault,
and became the mother of Dot, Aubrey, Nina and Mrs.
Clayton.
“ Pittite ” writes:—Although the late J. F. Cathcart
was generally esteemed by his brother mummers as “a
sound, good actor,” I never could see in his work ope
spark of genuine natural talent for the stage. He was
born into the “ profession,” not born for it. Cathcart
belonged to the old school of theatrical mechanics. Three
stiff strides and a halt was his stage mode of procedure,
no matter what sort of character he impersonated. His
elocution was as formal as his gestures. Always a pal-
pable actor acting his part was the veteran J.F., and,
perhaps, that was why his equally unconvincing and less
practised kindred always barracked for him. But he had
the old-time virtues of warmth and energy, and power—of
a kind. Cathcart could “ take the stage ” and let himself
go for all he was worth. I remember him first as Henry VI.
to Barry Sullivan’s Richard, at Drury Lane, not long before
he left England for Australia. The part of King Henry,
in Colley Cibber’s arrangement of “Richard III” is a
short but “ fat ” part, and Cathcart fairly outshone
Sullivan in the scene they played together. Many years
afterwards the old man popped up again as Henry VI,
this time at Melb. Opera House, when Geo. Miln pro-
duced “ Richard III.” During the same season he played
Brutus, in “Julius Caesar,” and then Geo. Rigriold
engaged him to go and Brutus in Sydney. Those
were Cathcart’s last appearances of any importance in
“ legitimate ” tragedy. He was a useful member
of the Brough and Boucicault Co. in their productions of
costume comedies, such as “ Sophia,” “ Joseph’s Sweet-
heart ” and “ School for Scandal.” He even got credit for
being a humorous comedian, as the butler in “Confusion,”
and another butler, in “ Dandy Dick,” but poor old
Jimmy Cathcart’s method used to strike me as being
most artificial in humorous situations. Individually he
seemed heaviest when he tried to be light, yet he was too
capable an actor to be “ a detrimental,” as regards the
rest of the performance. He knew every move on the
boards, and was a complete dictionary of traditions.
The story goes, truly or untruly, that “ after all these
years ” a theatrical potentate and his wife have become
reconciled, and that the third party, by whom he also
has a family, is eating her heart out and going road.
Wallace Brownlow’s rendering of Kipling’s “ Mandalay ”
as a ballad of action is a notable success at Melb. Opera
House. Sung as Brownlow originally gave it at a Town
Hall matinee concert some years ago. “ Mandalay ”
would not have appealed to a Rickards audience a little
bit, but in suiting the action to the word the tenor-
baritone has vastly improved the effect of the ditty.
There are already vague rumors of yet another Castles
girl with a voice. The third sister (Eileen), now at a
Melb. convent, is said to be developing a soprano that
will knock out the two others. But if she has it, she
should be allowed to hold her voice in reserve until she
is 20, or thereabouts. Both Amy and sister Dolly have
suffered through being taken in hand by aspiring teachers
ere their voices fairly indicated what they were likely to
be.
Anyone with a knowledge of the business can work an
old-established, well-known pub. successfully, but it takes
an ex-showman to make things hum where they never
hummed before. Phil. Stuart, last year, hung out his
banner at a not very likely-looking house in Toorak road,
Melb., and already it is the enlarged resort of the local
nobility and gentry, who accept host Philip as a boon to
the district and a mayor in prospective. All done by
management and mannah. Meanwhile, his old friend,
“ Jack” Lohr, is building up a solid notoriety for his re-
constructed hotel, at Anderson’s Inlet, away in East
Gippsland. The Melbourne dailies published great news
of Lohr last week, in connection with an unprecedented
turtle. The turtle was discovered wallowing in the surf
near Lohr’s Esplanade Hotel, what time the boarders
were making ready to bathe, and Lohr, assisted by the
“ president of the Anderson’s Inlet Progress Association ”
(salute!), brought the turtle ashore. It weighed 1051 b.,
and as it professed to be the first turtle caught on the Vic.’
coast, the astute ex-showman didn’t convert it into soup!
Not much. He packed the fat captive off to His Ex. the ]
Governor as a seasonable offering, and now turtles are
included among the fish which can be caught by visitors
to the Inlet. Thnsfar there is no evidence that Lohr
specially engaged the performing turtle at enormous
expense in order that he might discover it next morning.
The huge mass of material for soup and succulent
advertisement appears to have been a bona-fide event.
Providence sent it along as a Xmas-box. But, in the
probable event of* a sea-serpent getting stranded anywhere
near Lohr’s domicile, this journal will make a guess at the
name of the snake-charmer who summoned the monster
from the vasty deep. •
Dan Barry’s latest p* .e of humorous audacity is “ a
stage adaptation of ‘ Caste’ under the attractive title of
‘ A Soldier’s Bride.’ ” Oamperdown (Vic.) Chronicle
stated in all seriousness than Dan bought the Australian
rights of this ‘ ‘ adaptation ” of T. W. Robertson’s comedy
and ran it for 18 consecutive weeks in Sydney.
Veteran Howard Vernon, with h ° m ou B £ 0 ™
Australia has so often la'Jghed, d ; n Broken
Adelaide season to strike an absolute blizzara
Hill—in midsummer, too. . ;
Nance O’Neil and M'Kee Rankin undaunted by their
London fiasco, have gone to America. marv and
lined a tour of the States beginning in February,
promises a great production of “Elizabeth in »an
Francisco, Jan. 5. _ , A
The recent death of Mrs. Arthur Stirling, in ng
revives memories of her successful °^ e ,„ n , h s h e
tralian stage as Miss Cleveland, in the . ctor
was the wife of Charles Vincent, a very intelhgent actor
of the period. Among her best-remembered Australian
performances are Leah, in “ Leah, the Eorsa en,
Barrv Sullivan’s management, and Cleopatra, with
Walter Montgomery as Antony. Vincent died of b ood
poisoning, caused by a scratched wrist, sustained in a
fall from his horse. Present writer remembers seeing
Miss Cleveland act in a sparkling comedy at the old Melb.
Royal, and—poor woman—as opportunity offered, tur
her back to the audience to weep, her husband then
being within a few hours of his death. Some time after
her return to England she married Mr. Arthur Stirling,
and maintained a good professional position until about
ten years ago.
Newspaper reports made it appear that the young m an
who went mad in the house of a Melbourne music-teacher
and started to wreck the furniture was a pupil receiving
a lesson at the time. As a matter of fact, he was an ex-
pupil, making an afternoon call upon Mrs. Emery Gould,
the lady in question. His manner was “ strange when
he first presented himself, but Mrs. Gould didn’t attempt
to sooth his seething brain with a little music. She just
talked about things in general, until her visitor suddenly
caught her by the throat, whereupon she remarked in a
casual sort of way that the grip was quite painful, and
when the gentleman let go she bolted from the room.
Next time a music-teacher entertains a lunatic, it would
be as well to try the effect of a sonata on him, or a Bach
fugue. It’s almost impossible for anyone to get furiously
excited by a fugue.
Sam Holdsworth, who sings the illustrated, maudlin,
sentimental songs in a well-preserved tenor voice, is a
contemporarv of Farley, the veteran baritone. As boys
together, some 40 or 50 years ago, they made their first
amateur appearances in the Port Melb. district. Since
then Holdsworth has roamed the world.
Although Brough assured a Colombo interviewer that
he had no thought of ever returning to Australia in a
professional capacity, it is remarked that Mrs. Brough
has been sending post-cards and letters to Australian
acquaintances, as well as professional friends, since she
reached India.
Some items of a “Grand Sunday Classical Concert”
running in Sydney every week : “The black-faced come-
dian in his Oriental coon song, ‘ You can get a sweet-
heart any day; ‘ The Dancing King,’ ‘ Honey, Tell Me,’
‘Cocoanut Queen,’ ‘Coon Pastimes,’ ‘Buck Dance and
Song and Dance,’ ‘ Loo Loo, I Love you,’ ‘ Skirt Dance,’
‘ concluding with a side-splitting farce.’ ”
The writer of a Cassell's Mag. article on “ Mrs. Brown-
Potter at Home,” after enthusing over her “ sweet
mouth, the oval eyes reminiscent of ancient Egypt, the
splendid crimson hair,” and her other possessions, tells of
an experience she had when playing at Hongkong. “ Her
manager having gone on ahead, and, unfortunately,
carried off with him all the cash, and her co. being on
the eve of returning to England, she was without money
to pay them their salaries and their passage. She was
at her wits’ ends what to do. Suddenly, someone
jokingly mentioned to her the gambling dens of Kowloon.
Now Kowloon is a dismal City of Night that lies upon the
mainland immediately opposite Hongkong. It is a place
of intense danger. An Englishman losing his way there
would to a certainty lose his life too. Mrs. Potter knew
all this ; but, notwithstanding, she determined to try her
luck at the gambling tables, and so, splendidly costumed,
she called a sampan and gaily set forth upon an adventure
which might have ended in a tragic death. Arrived at
Kowloon, she sought out the nearest gambling hell, and
set herself to win her company’s salaries. Luck
favored her, and in an hour or two she rose
with hundreds of sovereigns in her pocket—
£4oo, I think. The fierce Chinese bade her sit down
again and give them their revenge. She laughed in their
faces. She had come to win, and, having won, she would
go. Her pluck, her cool, gay courage, her presence of
mind, saved her, and once again she crossed the dark
waters—in itself a dangerous thing to do, for many a man
is murdered in those sampans and thrown into the sea,
none being the wiser—and, arriving in Hongkong, she
went straight to the shipping office and took passage for
all her co., whom she paid in full.”
One night when the hyaenas at Fitzgeralds’ menagerie
were howling and shrieking rather more than usual, an
irritated gent went up to the cage and threw them some
buns, or something, with the vain hope of stopping their
mouths awhile. Whereupon Dan Fitzgerald, who was
standing around at the time, called out : “Hi ! there !
Don’t disturb the animals. They’re kicking up a damn
good row. That’s what we bought them for.” Dan
maintains that the duty of a hyaena is to advertise itself
vehemently, or die and save its tucker.
Maoriland Graphic attributed the “amazing” success
of Musgrove’s comic opera co. in Auckland to “ the
advance booming and the fact that the public were ram-
pant for a theatrical entertainment of any sort after a
long course of vaudeville varieties.” “ Thirty Thieves”
was much preferred to “ A Chinese Honeymoon,” but,
then, the “ Thieves” in its present form introduces the
gorgeous Porcelain Ballet from Musgrove’s last Xmas
panto. The possibilities in musical corned}' are un-
limited. Anything can be introduced, from a boxing,
match to a baby elephant.
Gorgeous mixed metaphor evolved during
a Queensland Parliamentary stonewall: —
I want to get to business. lam like a barn-door fowl
—I want to be up and doing. 1 will stand by even if I
have to be tied to the wheel.
According to the Auditor-General, Queens-
land increased her indebtedness last year by about
2\ millions. She has just passed a Loan Bill
enabling her to raise a further loan of 2\ millions.
During the last two years her debt has increased
by £9 10s. per head, and she pays at present an
annual interest charge of 1| millions. Lively
times ahead for somebody !
A Queensland Railways Minister has a
lively time. He is expected to make the railways
pay, and yet keep down freights and fares; he is
expected to build wild-cat political lines, and yet
avoid an annual deficit. He is expected to run
suburban lines all round the metropolis, then
encourage a tramway co. to compete and kill these
same suburban lines, and at the same time make
the suburban lines pay handsomely. Three years
ago, the Enoggera people badgered Govt, into
building them a line on the guarantee system. Now
they are petitioning Minister Leahy to allow the
tram co. to run out a tram-line to compete with the
State railway, and when Leahy tells them they
didn’t pay their guarantee of .£l5OO last year and
that another guarantee of ,£l5OO is about due this
month, end they retire quite disgusted and howl
for a change of government. A good motto for
most of Queensland’s local Boards and governing
bodies would be “ Diddle the Government.”
John Sands’ “ Sydney, Suburban and
Country Commercial Directory for 1903 ” is
already on the market. Most books of this kind
come out half way through the year to which they
refer, but this writer received his copy of Mr.
Sands’ book in time for Christmas morning and
was able to look up the present addresses of all his
friends who keep good liquor. As usual the
volume is full of information that everyone wants
to know, and valuable additions have been made
in the shape of a Country Alphabetical list a
Pastoral Directory and Index. The list of firms
with fixed pay-days has been revised and brought
right to date, though nothing in this remark is to
be understood to insinuate that any portion
whatsoever of the Directory is not brought right
up to date. It is a larger, fuller, revised edition of
the same old invaluable work of reference without
which no office can conduct its business properly
and which even in the home is a source of much
convenience and a saver of good boot-leather and
mtation.


TWO TENORS SING PRAISES
OF THE NEW AND WONDERFUL ELECTRO-MEDICAL SYSTEM.
0 **"? waa . and P ractica,| y disabled in life, they should avoid disaster which may end in Death. New Vigor, new Life, new
’ * Power can be given by adopting for a short period the Electro-Medical Treatment or the judicious
and Medicine. People are cured daily by this system who were otherwise classed as “INCURABLE.”
remarks.
- WE have from time to time demonstrated, as leading physiologists and pathologists in the scientific world,
the fact that the permanent healing of grievous health-destroying diseases lies in the possession of a perfect know-
ledge of the causation and phenomena concerning them, and the accurate methods of treating them. Any practi-
practitioner cannnf P i fi° n er can prescribe for a complaint and treat it with that professional care embodied in set formula. But every
little benefit M'll' CUr ? a disease. Honestly they endeavour, and unsuccessfully fail. Everywhere men and women try their doctors, receiving
the rio-hf «nnr- 1 P eo P^ e su ff er from chronic nerve and vital functional disorders, and never become cured of them, because they do not appeal to
SPFOTATTQT avera S e medical man CANNOT CURE WITH HIS SET FORMULAS and obsolete forms of treatment, the
Wlth hls new ldeas and modes of treatment, assisted by special knowledge, can. This is proven
BY THOUSANDS OF UNIMPEACHABLE TESTIMONIALS
i m SPECIALISTS of the IREEMAN and WALLACE INSTITUTE, in cases undertaken (and which they guarantee to cure) of nerve
and muscular disorders, stomach affections, etc. v & ’
• i new methods of nerve and physical strength restoration, by the employment of Electro-Therapeutic agents, is a new system, qualified by
JV atients OCCUPYING IHE HIGHEST POSITIONS in the world of Art and Letters, Sport and Commerce, gladly testify to great
Pvqtfdt o ! ri if judiciously applied by means of an ELECTRIC “ INVIGORATOR ” with reconstructive remedies, and such diseases as
T rtMi) a *SS? MNIA . PALPITATION, SCIATICA, EPILEPSY, BRAIN-FAG, EXHAUSTED VITAL FUNCTIONS, RHEUMATISM,
LUMBAGO, ABDOMINAL WEAKNESS, PILES, ST. VITUS’ DANCE, or CHRONIC or FUNCTIONAL NERVE DISORDERS, are surely
and permanently cured.
AN EXQUISITE
EULOGY.
♦
MR. CHARLES KENNINGHAM,.
the famous lyric composer and
chief operatic tenor of the
Royal English Comic Opera Company,
from the Savoy Theatre, London, who
has starred in every city of Australasia
as the idol of Australian audiences by
reason of his excellent singing, writing to
the Specialists under date November
20th, declares :
“For years I suffered from
Insomnia . Your Electric “Belt’’
was recommended to me and I
consistently wore one, tvitli the
result that I ttm now sleeping
reasonably and my general health
and appetite are much improved.
“ Yours truly,
“ CHARLES J\ EX NINGIIA 31 ”
Such a testimony from such an eminent
source proves the value and efficacy of
the only superior Electric “ Invigorator”
sold in the States;, the full particulars of
which are below appended. Be careful
when purchasing an Electric “BELT”
that you secure one certified by local
electricians.
PS
Mr. CHARLES KEWINGHAM, the Famous Composer.
A DISTINGUISHED
PATRON.
MR. PHILIP NEWBURY, the
famous English robust tenor, so
intimately known and so popu-
larly appreciated by all Australian lovers
of exquisitely superb vocalisation, was so
benefited by a course of the Electro-
Medical treatment that in a letter to the
SPECIALISTS he says r
“A few weeks’ course of your
Electro-Medical Treatment, during
which I wore one of your famous
Nerve - Restoring Electric ‘ IN-
VI GO RATO lIS,’ has benefited me
(/really. For years I suffered from
L'ric Acid in the Blood, with Rheu-
matic tendencies, but, thanks to
/our Electric *IN VIGORATORf
l am now completely cured.
Tours faithfully,
Graceful as this eulogy is, it is none
the less sincere, expressed by one whose
attainments are generally beloved
throughout Australasia. It verifies the
fact that in the cure of nerve diseases,
electricity judiciously applied by a skilled
SPECIALIST is unequalled as an im-
mediate remedy.
If you suffer from Insomnia, Functional Heart Trouble, Epilepsy, Hysteria, Weakness, Kidney Dis-
order, Aching Back, Rheumatism, Uric Acid in Blood, Sciatica or Neuralgia, an Electric “ Invigorator,”
with reconstructive remedies, will soon put you right. Electricity goes right to the Spot. Eor many weak-
nesses peculiar to women the “ INVIGORATOR ” is an infallible cure.
All attestants may be interviewed. The SPECIALISTS’ treatment is sure and effective. Improvement is rapid and certain.
You need not fear but that you WILL RECOVER if you try a course of Electro Medication. It acts at once on the nervous centres, animating the nerves, re-strengthening the muscular
system, equalising the circulation, improving the blood-stream. It clears the brain, strengthens and regulates the beating of the heart, and makes a man or woman healthy and strong, AS
NATURE INTENDED THEM TO BE. A man is no longer feeble under this treatment; he REGAINS ALL HIS LOST STRENGTH, and finds no PHYSICAL TRIAL that he cannot
conquer. It is the finest medium in the world to physical peace and domestic harmony.
: 1
The Prices of these wonderful curative “INVIGORATORS” are as follow:
Coppsr Plat?, £1 ; Silver Piate ; £1 IDs; Solid Sliver, £3 ; Solid Cold, £lO (2oz. 18ct. Cold).
The Specialists hold Certificates of Efficacy unpossessed by others, and give private tests to anyone who cares to call. Two leading Sydney electricians
assert they are “electrically perfect, and their currents are continuous as used for medical purposes.”
These “INVIGORATORS” are the only Electric “Belts” sold in Australia which possess true non-conductii g vulcanite insulation, without which nc
Electric “Belt ” can give a continuous electric current useful for medical purposes. Any electrician will verify this fact.
The Specialists’ Fees : Advice & Medicine, ONE POUND only.
CREDENTIALS.
NINE Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration of the Physician-in-
Chief by tfce Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
England and Ameiriea, open for public inspection at the Institute. Late Homceopat no
Hospital, Melbourne, and British Imperial Army Medical Staff. .
Sir DOMTLNIC OORR&GAN, Bart., Physician to the late Queen, speaking of the
Physician-ins Chief, saysl entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his
professional •qualifications. ”
“ CLINICAL, EXPERIENCES.”
CONTAINING 550 pages Of medical literature, 150 full and half-page medical illustra-
tions, fully explains, in the chapter devoted to Electricity, the general laws governing
the application of electricity to the human frame. An exhaustive exposition of the Systems
employed in the doctrine of Electro-Medication is given, showing the benefits to be derived
from a judicious use of the Electric Bath, Battery, or Belt. The uses of these are
individually explained. This valuable medical work is posted free to any address on receipt
of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
FREEMAN * WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDIC A!
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH
HOWARD FREEMAN, D*»oc*oe.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE,. M.D., L.R.O.P.
, t, L.F.P.8.,
and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Medicines pecked Free From Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
E., L.M., Phyelclan-ln-Ohief. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


Transfer of the White Star liners to the
Atlantic shipping combine is completed. Star
shareholders get over .£lO,OOO for each £lOOO share
—£4195 cash and value for £OOOO in the new stock.
Total purchase-money, £10,699,436—£3,147,236
cash and the balance in shares.
It is from time to time reported that the idea
of digging a canal to let the ocean into Lakes Eyre
and Torrens, and thereby restoring to Australia
its lost Inland Sea, and possibly furnishing it
with a new climate, has fascinated Bill Lyne. It
has been estimated that the job would cost
£35,000,000, but Bill hopes it could be done for
less. Query: What about the possibilities of
damming some of the rivers that flow into the
Gulf of Carpentaria and backing them up suf-
ficiently to lift their waters over the intervening
ridge into Lake Eyre ? There is only one ridge
between the upper waters of the Flinders, flowing
into the Gulf, and those of the Barcoo and Dia-
mantina, which would flow into the S.A. lakes if
the water didn’t give out. Also, what about
closing the Murray Mouth and turning the
Murray into Lake Torrens? These proceedings
would supply the interior with fresh water instead
of salt, and that is a difference worth considering.
C. BRANDAUER & Co. s (Ltd.)
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OF
PENS.”
n
m
Each pattern being made in jour degrees of flexibility and
Bk your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series. Works . BIRMINGHAM, EN,GLA\ D
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
TT’WE! FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as 1 e ec s a °™P . cc ! m "
folding in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor onsump ion o eve op. . m P 33
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken a e eginning, a ose is genera ysu cien ,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
T=tTi!W ATR-R OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about, the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe,.but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
mjatter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASK.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
rfvith cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can't be licked."—Yours sincerely,
Modswarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 .years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cii e for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
** Lien welly.n,
“ Katunga, Vio.
••Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
•ji your Bronohitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to inv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND is QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson -street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it capre,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir.
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL*
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, I atn feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong. •
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my ne-xt supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I mi happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours mostrespectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
"Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales."
A Five Tears’ Case.
CUBED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now Ido not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchith
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights In succession I had to isit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. .For a year
previous I bad been getting Very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadilj' improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne's
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Geelong, Victoria.
o®ce: Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
o-iiiall Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
■DTIOIJiS
SMELTING * REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works : DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
For all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
• or ’ A - E ' JUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
ail other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
Bengal Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, end Digestible
Benges’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere-
Extracts Jroni Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t > find. My wife sounds
the praise of 4 Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


0
u
©3
??) ® /n\
AXJSTRALIA3ST
INCANDESCENT LAMPS,
THE EDISON LAMP
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST!
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750 were purchased by the lilelb. City Council.
LONG LIFE, HIGH EFFICIENCY.
-
Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
Equitable Buildings,
Melbourne & Sydney
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, &c., also in Stock.
@
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
@
@
©
©
u
HARLENE
The Great Hair
Producer and Restorer.
FOR
THE
THE FINEST DRESSING. SPECIALLY PREPARED AND DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXIfIY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET.
“ HARLENE ” produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey. Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and
Moustache. The World-Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For preserving,
Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; for Removing
Scurf, Dandruff, ©*c.; also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
ROYAL TESTIMONY
“ Monsieur Philosophow is commanded
by
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN OF
CREEQE
to forward cheque for the six bottles
of ‘ Harlene ’ duly received.”
H.I.H. THE GRAND DUCHESS OF
MEGKLENBURG-SGHWERIN
“ Requests large bottle ‘ Harlene ’ for
the Hair sent at once.”
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE
writes: “Messrs. Edwards’ Prepara-
tion, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given
entire satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes
six more bottles of ‘ Harlene ’ sent as
soon as possible.”
H.I.H. THE GRAND DUCHESS GEORGE
OF RUSSIA
writes: “ Please send at once six
bottles of ‘ Harlene,’ the same as
formerly sent H.I.H. when still
Princess Marie of Greece.”
I/- 2/6, and (3 times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Chemists and Stores aH over the World.
EDWARDS’ “ HARLENE” CO.
96 6 96, HHUI H9LB9RM, L9N99M.
1
SBK
\X
, %
\' \
in
m
ik)
Mrs. LANGTRY, tfje charming Jletress Manager, <
writes: “ Previous to my using HARLENE, my hair had become
brittle and was falling off. I have used your prepara-
tion daily for 18 months, and my hair is quite restored.
I cannot recommend Harlene too hiehlv.”


4I2GEORGESTS' y D/VE y
JR big Jewellery Store was never so superior, never so splendid.
Every beautiful thing from England, America and the Continent is
here, and favourably priced for you. So quickly come and go the new
things that we could not enumerate them, but come in and see for
yourself what we have. We never press anyone to buy. We will gladly
show you the latest even if you come only out of curiosity. Our New
Catalogue is free to all.
No. E 4459 —The “ Cupid ” Card Case,
Solid Silver, Lady’s Size, £2 10s.
Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver
Base. Tankard, J-pt., 12s; 1 pt.,
15s.
b 3 1 ,7/di \ ivsnrinwK
P=s
«S
Nr F6127—A1 Quality Silver-Plated
Toast Back, £1 15s.
No. F9ss4—Heavy 9ct Gold Twist Bracelet, JE2 10s.
No. E3oB2—9ct Gold Braoeiu'. set Pearls and Sapphire
Doublets*'2 2s.
No. F9557—9ct Gold and Real Pearl
Bracelet, £2.
No. FJs69—9ct Gold and Real Pear
Bracelet, £1 7s. 6d.
Set Gold & Tortoiseshell
Hairpin or Ornament,
£1 7s 6d.
No. F2lsB—Solid Silver Prize Bowl,
£8 10s.—8jin. x s£in.
No. F9s72—Strong- 9ct Gold Twist Tube
Brooch, £llos.
No. F247B—Silver Plated Butter Knife and Jam
opoon, in a Case, 14s. 6d.
No. F999l—Silver Plated Satin Lined
Jewel Case, £1 ss.
No. F 558 —A 1 Quality
Silver Plated Butter Dish,
£1 12s. 6d.
No. F64B3—Solid Silver
Pepper Pot, 18s. 6d.
No. E7B49—Silver - Plated
Egg Boiler, JBI 7s. 6d.
!i as
: 1 ; -:h
if m
No. Fl342—Out Glass and
Silver Plated Claret Ju#,
£1 Is.
No 163—18 ct Gold
Diamond and Ruby Ring)
£3 10s.
No. F47lo—Silver Plated Knife, Fork and Spoon,
in a Case, 14s. (id.
r> %teWatil%Dawsan &
CORNER. CEOPf-T
ANY PERSON SUFFERING
FROM
Constipation, Derangements of the Stomach, Liver and Kidneys,
Influenza, Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, and Uric Acid Troubles,
CAN HAVE A PERFECT REMEDY.
COLONEL E. LAWFORD WRITES
“Pegu Club, Rangoon, India.
“ October 6th, 1901.
“I have made the acquaintance of your
excellent Kutnow’s Powder, through Mr.
Guthrie, of the Medical Hall here, and I
consider it most efficacious.
“ Yours faithfully,
“E. LAWFORD,
“Colonel Commanding Rangoon.”
A CAMBRIDGE LADY WRITES:
“Anglesey Abbey Lodge, Cambridge,
“January 6th, 1902.
“ Sirs, —I have no objection to your using
my name in saying my parlormaid was
suffering from Indigestion, and I gave her
your Kutnow’s Powder sent to me which at
once relieved her, and she says did her much
good, so that now I am sending for another
bottle of the same to keep by me, for any
member of my family's use. Enclosed Postal
Order, as requested, to include postage.
“ Faithfully yours,
“ CATHERINE CLARK.”
THE PRIMARY CAUSE of Gout, Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Gravel. Diseases of the Bladder, Diabetes, Renal Colic,
Smarting and Scalding Sensations, is entirely due to excessive uric acid
in the system, which, if not checked and regulated, means the develop-
ment of the most painful and distressing maladies. Most of these
troubles can be traced to disorders of digestion, assimilation, secretion,
excretion, and elimination. If our food be properly digested and the
adipose matter promptly eliminated, there would be by far fewer cases of
Rheumatism and kindred ailments.
KUTNOW’S POWDER not only prevents the possibility of
uric acid poison, but, if already developing in the system, will eradicate
the trouble. The European Springs have wonderful cleansing proper-
ties, still they have a drastic and lowering effect on the system gene-
rally.
Not so Kutnow’s Powder. On the contrary, while retaining its
marvellous remedial properties, it strengthens and fortifies the system,
and restores all the great organs of the body to healthy activity.
BEWARE OF FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS.
KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtained in capsuled bottles
from all Chemists and Medicine Vendors. See that the Registered
Trade Mark, “ Hirsehensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and the autograph
facsimile signature, “S. KUTNOW and Co. (Ld.),” are on the label
and carton. ONLY SUCH ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST
ON “ KUTNOW’S/’ AND FIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUBSTI-
TUTES ; THEY ARE WORTHLESS AND OFTEN INJURIOUS
THE REV. F. G. SCRIVENER
writes :
‘‘Lakenheafch A 7 icarage, Brandon, Suffolk,
“January 27th, 1932.
“Sirs,—Having myself been greatly bene-
fited by the use of Kutnow’s Powder, I am
recommending a trial to a parishioner.
About a year ago 1 suffered much from acute
rheumatism. After taking doses of your
Powder, about four a week for two months
whenever I felt pain, I found the Powder
most efficacious, and have not suffered from
rheumatism since. The Powder seems to
have the power of expelling the poison from
the system. You may make any use you
like of this letter, or my former one.—l am,
yours,
“(Rev.) F. G. SCRIVENER.”
NURSE ROBERTSON wk™ :
6, The Parade, Bounces Road,
“Lower Edmonton.
“lam pleased to be able to tell you that
I have derived great benefit from the use of
Kutnow’s Powder, both for indigestion,
biliousness and rheumatism, and am delighted
to have found so agreeable and efficacious a
medicine.
“(Nurse) F. ROBERTSON, L. 0.5.”
Proprietors; 8. KUTHOW & CO., LTD., 41 FARRINGDON RD., LONDON, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: Kutnow Bros., 853 Broadway, New York.


The HXTIE'W SHORTHAND (Rgd).
COUNTRY PUPILS.
must be paid by pupil both ways.
Distance isno object, as the New Shorthand is wonderfully easy, and may
be taught by post. A Lesson Book accompanies each lesson, and postage
Letters of inquiry will not be answered unless the postage be prepaid.
™ E NEW SHORTHAND
is trie simplest yet invented, and the great beauty of it is its legibility
in 9i Loanno , reac * w^en written. No matter whether smart Or dull, you learn
«. t _ ' j ~1 u pays no more to learn than the Smart. Take as long as you choose between lessons.
Master one, and then come (or send) for the next.
N.S.W.
No. 289.
No. 292.
(I EXTRACTS FROM PUPILS’ LETTERS.
No. 203.—" I commenced the study of your ‘New Shorthand’ system on October 28. The more I
study it the more I like it.”
-<■ i P ust Ba y * consider your Shorthand a most simple and admirable system.”
i have managed to get from 50 to 60 words a minute so far—not bad for 10 days.”
Two of these are gentlemen living in the COUNTRY.
ADELAIDE (Head Studio) - - Mr. ARTHUR C. CREW
Branches. Chief Examiners.
Sydney, 7 Moore St. Mr. W. Charlton Hubble
Melbourne, 406 Collins Bt. Mr. Fleming Dodd
Perth, William & Murray Sts. Mr. T. Arthur Cepp
Brisbane, Q. (Courier Building's)
Mr. Alexis L. Holtze
Hobart, Tas. Stock Exchange Buildings)
Mr. R. Egbert Oaten
Bankers—Adelaide : The Union.
Branches.
Launceston, Tas.
N.Z., Wellington
N.Z., Auckland
N.Z., Dunedin
Chief Examiners.
Mr. E. A. Winter
Mr. Fredk. Thomas
Mr. D. J. Whyborn
Mr. William C. L.yder
N.Z. Special Representative Mr. S. Chant Holland
(S.A.) Port Adelaide (facing the station) Miss Him 9
(S.A.) Clenelgr (Jetty Road) Miss Berry
Branches: The Commercial.
%r
ate
S^l
[he
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
A Tempting New Year Offer
The Rosewarne Packing Go.,
UIiMIITIEID,
Being very desirous of introducing their
OA.KTKTBD DSIiICACIXiS
to every household in the Commonwealth have
arranged through Messrs.
F. LASSETTER & COMPANY, LTD.,
to put up Sample Cases of their Poultry, etc., which will be sold at
WHOLESALE PRICES.
The Company is prepared to rely on the quality of
their pack bringing them such business in the
near future as will compensate them for the
large expense incurred in the distribution of
the goods.
Price for 2 dozen cases containing 12 Tins of Assorted Poultry,
consisting of Chicken, Turkey, Duck anil Goose—Roast, in
Aspic, Curried and Stuffed—and 12 tins Sausages and Pies
and Pates, consisting of Reef, Cambridge, Pork, Irish and
Oxford Sausages, Chicken and Ham Pates, Game Paties and
Pies, Veal and Ham Pates, Yachting Pates and Camp Pies.
Weight, 361bs. gross, delivered at Railway Station or Wharf, 225. 6d.
Price for 4 dozen cases, weight, 641bs. gross - - - - (each) 425. 6d.
Send your Order to F. tassctter & Co., Ltd., early,
befote the supply runs out.
The Inky Way.
The A rots recently “ London, Nov. 12 The system
of marital law in force in the Transvaal is being gradually
replaced by a modified system of permits. - it” curious
fact for which there is possibly an explanation lurking
somewhere that the more “ respectable ” the paper, he
chuckle ftR t 0 I""" 6 “ bloomer s” which cause a
chuckle in the smoking-room. S.M.H., for instance
whose character is that of a prim old maid of the
period, very seldom has type errors ; but when it does
bhmder, comes out with a hair-raising and unquotable
•
Fair sample of slush from a South Anstr-iiior,
politan paper verb, et lit. The catering wa 'undTr he
careful management of , and was served mini
manner that was wont to call forth the highest encomiuns
from all and sundry who participated of
provided. The tables literally groaned witVVhe
fimrers f nf S f t ’- and vi £ nds were manipulated by the dst
fingers of fair maids whose cheeks rivalled the lilv wtiiio
with tints of Hygean’s bright hue. Mr. Z-I‘ pa t
master m the art of catering, and he must have felt well
pleased at the praises which were heard on all sides A
word or two may also be passed on the chef who prepared
the viands, and I am informed that he is one of the best
m the Commonwealth.” Not a word about the gentle
man who did the washing-up ! gentie-
*.* * *
T other day a Brisbane tailor returned from a business
and pleasure trip to the cold country and Europe
ally, and the local Telegraph dispatched to P him an
£ sf r r/- r -v S - ab ° f the report: “ Like Ohilde Harold
he stood, in Venice, on the Bridge of Sighs, a pakce an 1
a prison on each hand ! And at Rome he " (the noble
Smp-“ our smartest pants, 225. 6d.”) “surveyed thereof
arena where the gladiators had once filed in with bran-
d'sbed ,f W0 A rdB ' exclaiming, ■ Ave Ccesar, morituri, salt
tending dail « alism l
* * • .
There is nothing more beautiful in journalism than the
periodical puff paragraph of a “ great daily/- panting out
the special excellencies in the latest issue of the “great
weekly which issues from its own office. Fifty-two
times per annum the daily organ of public opinion is
struck by interesting features in its weekly contemporary
Sometimes it is struck rather harder than usual, but it
never fails to be struck a good deal
* • * «
The cable announcing the coming event in the York-
let s household was beaten by Sydney Sunday Times with
fvno P6 “ w!ui ab u ° p I ? th - beaded, in quarter-inch
type, Holland’s Hope.” It set out that the voun«
Queen of Holland expected to present a heir to an anxious
nation in March next. It takes a nice, tame, stupid
farm y paper like S.T. to publish such a prophecy six
months ahead. Why J
The leading papers in the four M.L. cities, Auckland,
Wellington, Dunedin, and Christchurch, have an arrange-
ment not to “ steal ” each other’s men, and transfers are
infrequent. In Christchurch, about two years, ago one
man left and crossed the street to take up a much better
position on the rival reptile in the same city. Result,
furious recriminations and a tighter agreement. About
a year later another man followed suit, and further
trouble ensued. The road is now closed for ever. Under
the terms of a managerial treaty, a man just has to stay
in his office till he dies. His only chance is in Australia
or from the possibility of his seniors, who also have to
stay in their holes, passing out before him. Under this
system, M.L. pressmen take a good deal of interest in
each other’s health.
• * * *
A M.L. pressman : A Journalists’ Industrial Union has
been in existence in Christchurch (M.L.) forabout a year.
Christchurch possesses several papers, with two leading
and rival proprietaries. The staffs of the two offices met
in the official pub. and the union started. Chief argu-
ments furnished against the infant came from two of the
editors present, and amounted to an exposition of the
difficult position an editor would occupy if he joined the
union. He would be in the union’s confidence and should
work in the union’s interests, while also, as a responsible
man on the paper, he would be in the employers’ confi-
dence, and would have to keep their end up. It was
decided that the editors of the morning dailies could be
honorary members, whose only link with the union should
be the goldeti one of subscription. (Each co. has a large
morning daily, a smaller evening issue, and a weekly
journal with a separate staff.) The union being formed,
the whole of the staff of one office pulled out of the
concern, allegedly because the other crowd was trying to
run the show. Said that their employers hinted that
they would he wise to do so. Anyway the union’s
membership is now confined to the employees of one co.
It cannot get in other centres to form
branches.
* • * •
Things have altered with Melb. Age since the early
60’s, when the Argus used to receive a monthly tele-
graphic summary of news by the English mail telegraphed
from Adelaide. The Age, not being able to pay for this,
a boy was sent to the corner of Spring-st. and Richmond
Road at 4 a.m., where he intercepted the Argus news
cart on its way to Richmond, bought a copy of the paper,
and rushed back to the Are office with it. The sub-
editor then snipped out a couple of cols., altered it a bit
to make the matter look like an original telegram, and
inserted it. In those days the early country trains did
not leave Spencer-st. until 6.30 a.m.
099*
Owing to the paper having been “ bitten ” over one or
two mistakes years ago, Brisbane Telegraph strikes out
all names of persons in telegrams. Even if Tommy Jones
is reported from Sydney as having been found dead in a
back yard the name is suppressed, on the principle that
no risks are to be taken.
» * • •
Hobart Clipper, recently badly bumped by a libel
action, has changed hands. “ John Drayman,” an old
Bulletin contributor, takes the wheel.
* * • »
Country newspaper rivalry in Maoriland ! Two persons
were before the Court on an abortion charge. One rag
carefully informed its readers that “ the ma'e accused
is the father of the editor of our reptile contemporary.”
• m 9 m
The conductor of one Melbourne daily is the proud pro-
prietor of a “ hand” that would ruin a P.O. employee, if
put to the writing-test for sobriety. Another distin-
guished Melb. journalist has a quaint habit, when seized
of an inspiration, of grabbing the first slip of paper he can
lay his hands on, whereon to lucubrate. One article of
his was penned upon—(l) flyleaf of a book sent for review ;
(2) back of draper’s bill for various articles of feminine
attire ; (3) water-rate notice from the Board of Works.
* * * •
Sydney morning newspapers, as a result of newspaper
postage, have cut 5 per cent, off the agents’ commission—
even when the agents call for their papers, and no post-
age or cartage has to be paid. The evening papers have
not followed suit—onlv the S.M.H., the D.T.j and tile
World’s News. One result of the move is that Sydney
newsagents are doing their utmost to “boom” a Syrne
rival to the W.N, *
% * • *
He the “Contemptuous” damages of Is. given in
the Vic. slander action, Fox. v. Trenvvith. Juries
take the view that a journalist, whose function it is to
say disagreeable things about politicians and others,
ought not to be thin-skinned when the assailed becomes
the assailant. Julian Thomas (“The Vagabond”) only-
recovered one farthing damages from Wkslkyan Spectator
for s lying something as nasty about him as he said about
the paper’s pet convert Thakombau.
• • « *
An extraordinary libel action was that brought by-
Robert Ellis, letter-carrier, against Sydney Star. At-
some suburban Court, Alfred Ellis, painter, was charged
with stealing a letter. The Star reported that Alfred
Ellis, letter-carrier , was so charged ; and Robert Ellis,
letter-carrier, issued a writ on the ground that it was a
libel on him, as he was the only- letter-carrier named Ellis
in the service. Case out of Court.
» • » *
To a deputation of printers who recently objected to
prisoners being taught to set type in gaols, Vic. Treasurer
Shiels unfolded a notion of great moment:—“ Mr. Shieis :
‘lf we turned them into clergymen or lawyers, they
would do the same thing. The same argument as you use
has been used against machines.’” A noble reform idea
that—every gaol a theological college, and every prisoner
in training for the Church.
« * -* *
Astonishing how some men rejoice to see their names
in print. There is a “ Young Folks’” column conducted
by an Adelaide paper, to which several middle-aged men
contribute ; they even enter for the competitions, no age
limit being stipulated.
Hansard* "from Tv, AuBtra,ian journalist seeks relief on
p H .pr?„r.r h „ e e &£&
SSM 1 !"","”* “11l th « l>oure P that
x-arnament sits, and reckon that, even if thpre nro
Hansard dLp« ght v si . ttin ‘ r ®> holidays are numerous. But
manv ext d w "‘V 196 with Parliament: it toils on for
prtnier Then Th ° UrB t 0 * et its notes read >’ ( °r the
reported ‘ h ! re , are numerous committees to be
The man within ° recess -P roofs to read, and so on.
mal } with any imagination or any nerves soon
for g ' b f benn f‘ Point 0,1 Hansard work.' He may totter
he must the W on the verge of breaking-down;
th en S lve 't U P Or smash utterly. The few who
they we a re d hTf "Ti T® men who would thrive even if
even ill half-grilled at the stake monthly. And
f ve „ n i hle y ';; uBt feel maniacal when the stupid “ re-
o Tf r™ ?: * e ts up t 0 ask "’hat Hansard men
hlo °i 80 a ,T ek ' Two members of
the'end of the « ff haVe^u en told to ex P e ct dismissal at
ha?fT d ° f sessl °n. The argument is that with but
of reDorteMwnih 1 " the Legislature only half the number
if one rad wav en needed - Similarly logical to say that
do sn ? can r " n 40 miles an hour, two could
much dl ’ Ced Assembl y will probably talk just as
®h as the present one. Premier Barton, by the way,
reportine- o Roval°Po upon . Fed . eral Hansard the task ol
does oreHP f/t- Com, " ,ss,ona ln recess, a decision which
aoe s credit to him. It is so easy to get a reputation for
economy the public service.
LeU°er^ditp E H °r R^ f Sti '. 1 P T ts . re & u, arly a “ Yorkshire
of io L., d Bradf ° rd ’ and written in the stilted style
°4on« ” Ba " d wiched between disquisitions about
tops and noils and “ combings ” and “low counts ”
the d An a °t n ’r re ChUnkS ot ' BHtish grandmotherly advice to
tn! Aus, t ra,lan squatter as to the successful cultivation of
mni'l."T nO ,~ aS |' Australia had not taught the world
[Tin T T W ° o, - ralSln * ln fiv e decades than Britain learnt
tralh, fh tUn - eB ' T me sam P* es In the centre of Aus-
of life n ° - hee .V 8 “ ada Pted to the conditions
ei ~/f It , th , Exposure to the hot sun is the
aff U ev I t r °uhle at times. Some sheep may be seriously
affected by it. if one should be found disabled in this
way, keep it in a cool, dark place, tie a wet sponge on the
head, and give 4oz. Epsom salts—of course keeping it in
the shade or some cool place until it has recovered.”
Wet sponges, as is well-known, may be found growing on
every ice-tree between the Bullooand Bourke, and Epsom
salts can always be had from any respectable chemist’s
shop on the Old Man Plain. Umbrellas for shade may be
had tor the asking from any bo.undary-rider, and “cool
places are easily captured by a good dog between 12
noon and 1.15 p.m.
• * m «
For two days running, Sydney D.T., in recording the
names of the saved, dead and missing of the wrecked
Ehnganute, “Mistered” the names of the saloon
passengers, but dropped the prefix in the case of the
steerage passengers.
A Night-Shift at Mt. Morgan
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Eleven p.m. ; hundreds of twinkling lights con-
verge towards the great arc lamp gleaming like a
star on the side of the famous Golden Mount.
The night-shift is coming on. In front of the
office, where each man receives a brass badge
bearing his number, stands a group of some 40 or
50 men ; limp and jaded, but all expectant. These
are the “ odd shift ” men, casuals who gladly snap
at the crumbs left by their more fortunate brethren
in regular employment. The majority of them
stood in the same place, almost in the same atti-
tudes, this morning, again in the afternoon, and
now for the third time in 24 hours they are wait-
ing, hoping they may be lucky enough to be
picked to work a “ shift.”
And there are many crumbs to be picked up ;
for, though the methods of gold extraction at Mt.
Morgan are ingenious, they do not lead to good
health or “regular” time. The telephone rings
“ Men wanted in the chlorination-shed furnaces
and dry-crusher.” The lucky ones mnt up the
hill, while the others go home, to return again in
the morning and go through the same ordeal.
The “hooter” bellows the change of shift as I
climb the hill to the chlorination-shed. Within,
the air tastes bitter ; chlorine fumes are everywhere
rising from the vats like the fog from a swamp on
a winter morning. In the vats, surrounded by
the fumes, the gangs shovelling out the tailings for
dear life, now and again jumping out and rushing
to get a breath of fresh air and to cough till the
body is racked, as the lungs try to relieve them-
selves of the fumes. But coughing does little
good. You wish to get your fingers inside your
breast-bone to scratch the lungs.
In the old days sulphuric acid and chloride of
lime were used, which was worse, but then the
charge, confined in barrels, was only allowed to
escape at intervals, and after due warning had
been given. Now Economy has discovered that
a sulphuric acid and manganese solution is just
as effective when applied in huge open vats, and
the commands of Economy must be obeyed. One
unfortunate, a new hand, lies prostrated, coughing
and retching ; he is suffering from a “ dose of
gas.”
Above are the furnaces where the ore is roasted.
Dust, dust, dust; the electric lights and the fires
from the open doors of the furnaces shine vaguely
through it, like lamps through a Scotch mist.
With the dust, which fills the eyes and nostrils, is
mingled the smell of burning sulphur. A huge
iron cylinder, through which passes a solid body
of flame, revolves, pouring out a continuous
stream of almost molten ore. The man approaches
to empty the pit. The stuff is ladled into a bar-
row where it splashes like molten lead. A run up
a plank and it is emptied on a heap ready for the
chlorination shed. One loses sight of man and
barrow in the dense cloud of dust that rises
around them, but in a moment there is a glow in
the gloom as the man returns with the barrow, the
iron of which is red hot.
To the slow relentless grinding of the 60-ton
cylinders, the clang of ravels and barrows, in the
glare of the furnaces subdued by the dust laden
atmosphere, tiie dim forms of the men strive, the
lower parts of their faces masked by towels, the
runlets of sweat showing through the red dust on
their brows.
Above the furnaces is the dry crusher. The
distinction between the furnaces and the dry
crusher is that in the furnaces you breathe dust,
in tlie dry crusher you eat it. Large fly-wheels
spin round keeping the dust in a constant state
of agitation. Stone breakers snap their jaws on
the golden stone as it drops hot from the
“heater”; ball mills whirl, reducing it again to
floury fineness.
Through the night the ceaseless beat of men’s
hearts keeps time to the throbs of the machinery
till dawn breaks, and the “hooter” (welcome
sound !) shouts relief. Then down the mountain-
side the men go, to toss and turn in the sweltering
corrugated-iron ovens they call “ homes.”
I walk down in company with a dry crusher.
He is thin and pale. Around the curve of his
nostrils the dust, ingrained in the skin, marks like
the tattooing of a Maori. His eyelids are lashless.
A thin ridge of yellow dust on the eyelid edge
gives him a curious, sickly appearance, and when
he coughs, i Yet the work ; s constant, and
the wages good (Bs. per shift ), and one always has
the satisfaction of aiding the great Mount Mor-
ganaires to lord it in their palatial mansions in
London.
P LATMAN.


t
k
SPEEDILY DISPELLED.
Mr. RICHARD HENRY TREZISE, Manager of the Evelyn Copper Mine, Silverton, Broken
Hill, was interviewed at his private residence, Gaffney-street, Railway Town, when the following
interesting facts came to light :
“lain told, Mr. Trezise, that you speak highly of BILE BEANS FOR BILIOLSNESS as a
medicine,” said the interviewer. “Yes, I do, and with good cause,” was the reply. “lour years
ago, when I was manager of the Bonanza Mine, Broken Hill, I began to lose my usual good health.
I was troubled with severe headaches ; the pain would begin at the nape of the neck, travel up the
back of my head over the top, and seemed to increase in severity till it reached my forehead and
eyes, when it became unbearable. Then I had fits of Indigestion, with swelling over the stomach,
and wind. I would also get severe pains in the loins, and frequently after stooping over my work
had to lever myself up with my hands on my knees, enduring excruciating pain till I got upright.
My bowels were irregular, frequently constipated for days together, and then the symptoms
attacked me altogether.” “ You must have felt very miserable,” interjected the reporter. “ Miser-
able ! I was so miserable at times that had it not been for the thought of my wife and little ones,
I would not have cared if I fell down the shaft and never came up again ! ” “ Did you not seek
medical advice?” “I did. I spent pounds and pounds on doctors’advice and medicine, but it
was no good. I spent more on salts, quinine, pills, and all sorts of things, but with no effect, and
about three years ago now I tried Bile Beans, although I was really prejudiced against them. I
took three for my first dose, and in the morning I was surprised at the relief obf'aintd. I
continued with the Beans as directed, and from that day I improved rapidly in health. From
h wing a ravenous appetite I came down to a normal one, and yet from having been thin ami
miserable I put on a little flesh, though I was never inclined to be stout. I ate less, but' derived
more benefit from my food. I g-rew cheerful and hopeful, and in fact was soon a new man. From
that tim j I h ive never required any other medicine but an occasional Bile Bean, taken when I feel
n w u,j to my usual health.”
s) tss
n
lin!U
■- <?■
BILE BEANS have proved to be an
undoubted specific for BILIOUSNESS,
INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA,
HEADACHE, BLOOD IMPURITIES,
CONSTIPATION, PILES, PIMPLES,
AND ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS, BAD
BREATH, FEMALE WEAKNESSES,
FULNESS AFTER EATING, NER-
VOUSNESS, INSOMNIA, ANEMIA,
SUMMER FAG, and a host of other
ailments that owe their origin to defective
bile flow, assimilation, and digestion.
BILE BEANS are obtainable from all
Chemists. Price Is. l|d. or 2s. 9d.
LARGE BOX (containing three times
Is. size).
(i
s
rzs
I
One Bean
One Dose
NOW READY
PEARS’ ANNUAL
Christmas, 1802
Published by the Proprietors :
A. &F. PEARS, Ltd., 71-75 New Oxford-st., London, W.C.
Containing an Old-Fashioned Romance, entitled
MERRKHILD’S MILLION
By R. E. FRANCILLO.N
Will, 22 Illustrations in Black andl White by FRANK DADD, R. 1., i„ Handsome
\vu 1.1 1 Colored Cover.
With the above are—
LARGER-
PRESENTATION PLATES
Printed in Colors in the Best and Most Artistic Stvi»»
of the Chromo-Lithographic Art. .... V
1. A Breezy Day.
2,
3.
Si”e m 2B‘t?{f"' J Painti ”S BIRKET FOSTER, R.W.S.
y ’ 2 ' Printed in 13 Colors.
Impudent Hussies !
SiSVby i?. riSi “ a ' Pai '"
Spring Blossoms.
£:Vt° y I8 3riginal Painti W by Miss M. GROVES.
“ * • ' Printed in 13 Colors.
AND
4. The Ferry.
SiT’iestO ST 1 ” 1 COLEMAN.
THE WHOLE ENTIRELY PRINTED ,N ENGLAND “ “ C ° lo,: ‘
S<, ' a «- "•«•*««■ -I .... the Work
“The Living Present.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My clock I would give to mine enemy, for verily it is a
most callous cynic.—A wise sating of my own.
Drone out the Dirge of Time,
Measure our Fate away,
Tick on in even rhyme :
Who heeds the hour of day?
Arbiter man has made,
Who heeds the hour of day?
Life’s sunshine and its shade
Measure our Fate away.
Twelve hours is all your day,
Tick on in even rhyme,
Night has an equal stay ;
Drone out the Dirge of Time.
You gave our Life its years,
Arbiter man has made !
Some count by joy and tears
Life’s sunshine and its shade.
Relentless mainspring’s thine
(Twelve hours is all your day).
Monster of Frankenstein !
(Night has an equal stay).
Drone out the Dirge of Time,
Measure our Fate away,
Tick on in even rhyme :
Who heeds the hour of day ?
Q.
ERIC FERCUSSON.
The Exiles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the hot Australian Christmas Day is over
and the sun sinks to its crimson death, the elders
take their chairs to the shadowy garden, and
under the waving gum-trees paint a picture.
Their canvas is fashioned of an old remem-
brance, their colors borrowed from the rich hues
of the sunset; and ever, as year by year the
remembrance grows fainter, the colors deepen and
are more beautiful, as with distance so many
things grow beautiful in our sight.
And this is the picture.—
A white world, snow-girt, and sparkling amid a
thousand lights. A cold world, warmed by the
glow and joyousness that are born of the Christ-
mas season. A young world, full of mistletoe and
gay laughter. All this, and in the background an
old house standing in its snowy garden—latticed
windows, whose lights hold all the brilliance of
our Australian summer sunset.
To these dream windows creep the elders one by
one. (We may not look within who hold not the
remembrance, for our day is not like their day,
and perchance we would noo understand.) But
they remember, and, gazing into the scene of
merry-making and festivity, they live again those
long-past Christmas days.
For them alone was hung that mistletoe. Their
steps were ever lightest in the dance, and round
them thronged the gayest and most handsome of
all the country-side. But there was one whom,
before all, they favored.
The hot, Australian sunset dies away, and with
it fades the light in the latticed windows of the
dream-hall of the elders. * Gay laughter and the
sound of footsteps float across the garden, and one
by one the children join the group among the
trees. And the elders sigh resignedly for a little
space, then cease to remember, and join in the
merry Christmas of these Australian boys and
girls.
But above the clamor and the jollity and the
summer heat there floats ever a shadowy picture
—a snowy garden, a lighted hall, and two who
danced there.
ADELAIDE.
ALICE GRANT ROSMAN.
Florence Schmidt.
Alice Mack sends to The Bulletin from London
some matter which will interest Florence
Schmidt’s horde of Australian admirers
"* iha,t night we went to the promenade concert
at the Queen s Hall. Ihe hall is like a theatre on
a huge scale, with wide galleries circling round
and meeting the stage or platform on either side.
Down below, where the stalls are in Australian
theatres, except a few forms and chairs against
the walls, there is nothing to sit on, so everyone
stands. All the men had their hats on and
smoked.
“It was a great and appreciative audience. The
music was all orchestral, and about half-way down
the first part of the programme was Florence
Schmidt’s name.
“Florence Schmidt! Just the same, only
different. She wore a green frock that glittered
like a glow-worm in the night. She looked taller,
slimmer, and seemed to have acquired a new
dignity that became her well. Not so many smiles
as of old, but those that came were softer and
more charming.
“She sang 'Care Compagne ’ (‘Sonnambula’).
The silence in the hall was complete as her voice
rang out, and when it ceased all those calm-faced
people suddenly warmed and awakened into life
and applauded. There was no mistaking their
appreciation. She was their favorite. They must
have auother song, even though encores were pro-
hibited. Five times they brought her back ; then,
in answer to the continued applause, she ran on to
the platform and sang a little peasant song without
any accompaniment.
“ Later on she sang Solveig’s song. It was one
of the songs she sang years ago in Sydney at her
first public appearance. I had never heard her
sing it since, and it showed me most directly how
much she had improved. Every word could be
heard distinctly, and there was a simple pathos in
the voice that was inexpressibly touching.
“Next morning I called at Florence Schmidt’s
flat in Burwood Place, Hyde Park. I noticed
that the stairs were white and had rich, dark-
green carpet on them, and at the top were heavy
curtains of the same color. In the sitting-room I
saw the walls were green—a good background for
her bright hair. She came in dressed in a soft,
white gown, and looking tired. *
“ Yes, I am very hits, but I always feel so worn
out after singing. It seems to excite me so much
that I cannot sleep. Was I nervous last night?
Oh, dreadfully. I always am. I don’t believe
I’ll ever get over it. You want me to tell you
things about myself ! From the beginning? Well
after T le't Australia I stayed in Milan for three
months, studying with Mr. Steffani and taking
lessons from a ballet-mistress to learn how to walk
on the stage. After that L spent two years
on the continent—Paris, Brussels, Milan and
London, hearing and seeing the best of
everything. When 1 came back to London I
went to the Queen’s Hall to sing for Newman. I
sang three songs for him, and he told me to come
next day.
“ I went. Ho told me I was to sing the next
night, that someone was ill, and I must take her
place. I rushed off to get a frock, looked out
something to sing, and went next morning to
rehearsal with orchestra, and sang that night. It
was my first London concert, and I did not know
anyone in the audience but Mrs. Phil May, who
went with me. I sang ‘ Care Compagne ’ and
‘Stvrienne’ (Mignon), and had a great reception.
The next day I signed a contract for three years
to sing at the Queen’s Hall.
“Shortly after I went on tour with Ysaye and
Busoni. There were only the three of us, and we
did all the principal towns in England and Scot-
land. It was delightful to be associated with
those two clever men. It was on that tour that
they used to play the Kreutzer Sonata. Every
night after my song I would say I must go home ;
but I never went. I always Waited to hear them
play. In all, I heard them play that piece fifteen
times. |
“ Last night at the Queen’s Hall a man came to
hear me sing who had not heard rue since 1 Was a
little girl in Queensland. He reminded me of a boy
who used to call out over the back fence when I
sang, ‘ For Heaven’s sake, do stop howling! ’ That
was not as bad, though, as my own brother, who
used to say, ‘Go and play something, like a good
girl, but for goodness sake don’t sing .’ ”
“Do you meet many of the Australian singers
in London ? ”
“No, I don’t. I seem to know more of the
artists, painters, and literary fraternity. I have a
little reception every Saturday night through the
winter. Many Australians come. Arthur Streeton,
Mr. Longstaff, Mr. Beattie, Kate Rooney, Phil
and Mrs. May ; and then Londoners —Derwent
Wood, the sculptor; Phil Comyns-Carr, who has
just written a new play for Bernhardt; and
numerous others.
“ Ah ! I see your eyes straying up to that dear
man’s face. That is Ysaye. Written on it is a
little verse of music called a toi, Marguerite, which
he improvised the last night of his tour.
“ Those two sketches of me are by Phil May
when I posed for a Punch picture. Those others
are by Streeton, Hall Thorpe, Lambert, Sid.
Long, and ‘Hop.’ All sweet recollections of
Sydney. That picture of Phil May’s is the
original cover of the last Punch Xmas Annual.
“ When do you think you will visit Australia?”
“I have had offers made to me to go out to
Australia, but at present I cannot accept them. I
hope to go within tiie next two years. If I were
very rich I’d go out and sing for charity at every
place that I have sung at in Australia. The people
were so kind to me. I think the Sydney climate
is the best I know of for the voice. In London
one has always to be so careful, it is so easy to
take cold, and I hate having to take care of my-
self. ”
“ Melb.” : Gillott says, or appears to say,
that “Lord Mayor” will draw a better class of
Badger than the Mayors of the past—that is to
say, he says that, if he says anything. Well, I
don’t think it will produce a better stamp than
Gillott or S’Malcolm, his predecessor. The flavor
of absurdity attaching to the new title is likely to
keep plain men out of the council.
Huge is the contrast between the Maori,
the steamer with which the Union S.S. Co.
started operations in 75, and the Moeraki—
the latest addition to the co.’s fleet. The
former-mentioned craft was but 144 ft. long, with
a tonnage of 174, while the new vessel, with a
length of 368 ft. and a breadth of 47, has accom-
modation for about 200 saloon and 125 second-
class passengers. She has twin-screws, can run
15 knots, and is throughout arranged and fitted
in the most luxurious and up-to-date manner.
The cabin accommodation is particularly roomy
and airy, and the ventilating and bathing arrange-
ments embody all the most modern improve-
ments.
“ Tonbur ” : Have recently railway-
travelled a large portion of Yic. and have found
the servants abrupt and cheeky, the carriages
filthy, and the cushions old and torn ; while the
engines look as if they had never been cleaned,
and are continually breaking down. You never
know when to expect a train, as they are invari-
ably behind time; sometimes two to three hours.
Travelling from Avoca, t’other day, the engine
broke down between Adelaide Lead and Mary-
borough, so that we arrived at Maryborough over
two hours late and had to stay till next morning,
as the Melb. train had gone. The engines are
taken off one train and put on to another without
being washed out, while the men have to work
inordinately long hours. One man told me he had
worked 340 hours in 22 days, averaging hours
per day ; longest day’s work 19 hours. The roads
cannot be classed as safe, since the lengthsmen
work only five days, and two look after seven or
eight miles. “What a smash-up some of these
days !”
The Australian certainly expects a vast
amount from his Government in the way of
making bricks without straw. Perth Mokning
11K K A 1. 1) , for instance, has lately been lecturing
the postal department about its shortcomings, and
pointing out the example of the United States
after this fashion :
In some agricultural centres, even if distant ten miles
from the nearest post-ottice, the farmer has his mail de-
livered daily. For two cents a letter will be taken bv
the post-office from New York to the'farmer in his field
in far-off Kansas, miles away, perhaps, from the nearest
post-othce. Formerly the writing of a letter was onlv
undertaken when there was a chance of its being taken
to the nearest post-office. Now it is written at any time
and placed in the box by the farmer’s gate. Here the
post-office employee collects it and puts it in the way of
reaching its destination. It seems undeniable that this
innovation has materially improved the status of country
life m America.
“ Far-off Kansas ” was just 100 times as thicklv
peopled as Westralia when the U.S. Government
started this system, and that fact makes a
considerable difference, On hundreds of lone-
some coach-routes in Australia the daily mail
is an institution, and the farmer leaves his
letter m the box at the gate just as above de-
scribed—and this in regions not one-tenth as
thickly-peopled as Kansas. All night, on hundreds
ot Australian roads, the driver is perpetually
pulling up his four tired horses to see if there is a
letter in selector Smith’s box, or to put one in or
to leave the tin of fish that Smith asked him to
bring, or to do other small services. True, the
daily mail hasn’t got out to Kimberley or Eucla
yet, but no Government can be fairly expected to
supply Sheol.with the very best mail accommoda*
tion. Sheol isn’t at all like Kansas.


Weak and Nervous
Loss of Appetite. Indigestion. Impure Blood. Severe Headaches.
An Easy and Prompt Cure.
• >-
4
w&BifikiiS2£zS
Mrs. Marian Pascoe, of Christ-
church, New Zealand, sends a photo-
graph of herself and little boy and
says:
“I had indigestion very badly.
My food rested heavy on my stom-
ach. I lost my appetite and rapidly
grew weak. My blood became im-
pure and I had almost constant
headache. I was so nervous I hardly
knew what to do. A friend sug-
gested that I try Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, which I did, and only a few
bottles made me strong and hearty
again. My little boy began to com-
plain, said he was all tired out,
could not play, nor do anything.
He lost his appetite, and grew weak
and languid. I tried the Sarsapa-
rilla on him also, and he was soon
perfectly well.”
ii The World’s Crteaiest f atAjj v "^edicine.”
When you lose your appetite, when your food distresses you, iw 4 when
your nerves are weak, you may know that severe disease is not far awaj.
Taken in time, the cure is basy and prompt. You must strengthen your
digestive organs, purify your blood, and put your whole nervous system into
better condition. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will do this for you every time. And
it will give to languid and thin children the energy and vitality natural to them.
Experiments are dangerous. Avoid imitation Sarsaparillas. Insist always
upon getting Ayer’s, the oldest, strongest, best Sarsaparilla.
AYER’S I arsaparilla
Makes the Blood Rich and the Nerves Strong
Constipation, biliousness, sick-headache, —all cured by Iyer’s Pills.
che JJiost Refreshing 2)rink in JTustraUcr.
a
TSCRRAT”
Liroe-Frait Jaice
ao6 Cordials
The LANCET says:-j*'We
counsel the public to dnnh
Lime-1 ruit Juice whenever and
wherever they list. It is a far
more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
“ Mfntserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either with water or serated water, is a
delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees—EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, CONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., EIYERPOOE.
- ' 'i ■
J^ientoi:—Elliott Bros., Ltd., J Connell & Co., Sydney; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi tuc
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA.
so
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, ANL
RESTORES EYFLASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE
[NJ EVER
DOUBLES.
FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR’S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
I
“Made inhalf-
a minute by
the mere ad-
dition of boil
ing water
IN PINT
PACKE I S.
Manufacturers -JOHN MOIR * SON, LTD., LONDON, ABERDEEN and SEVILLE.
Head Office: 9 * 10, Great Tower Street. LONDON, E.C.
A WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
EI9.WS
Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind anti Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Jr Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush*
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath. Cosiveness, Blotches on Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will} be acknowledged to he “ WORTH A
GO IMF A A BOX.” 1
BEECH AM'S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly Restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they hot. like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion : bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud ok Health (he Whole Physical Enkbqy of the human frame. 'I hese
are "facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieinem
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM. St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND-
Sold Every where, in Boxes, Is I'd, ami —s 9d each.
ROBERTS’ v FOTEL, you enjoy youb lunch
George and Market
-K.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or 2s. per week.
TERMS The convenient
system of paying: for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
vVhen you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Room's ; and you not only
mjoy it, but it does you good as
well. r l 'here is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our nicnu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary,
yhe luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from ia>. —and there
is first-class attendance. L>iiii't&r,and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is-.-,
upwards. Silver grill at work.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STEEST, MELBOURNE.
jdicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWNSBQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.i;., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.F.P.S.Or., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
May be CONSULTED DAILY
ELMLEY HOUSE,
151 ELIZABETH" STREET, SYDNEY*
1)r. MARTIN, during his recent European Tour, visited the Leading Hospitals of GREAT BRITAIN
and EUROPE, and has now at his CONSULTING ROOMS all the latest improvements in ELECTRIC
APPLIANCES, BATHS, etc., and all the most recent scientific methods of treatment for all NERVOUS,
LUNG, HEART, SKIN, and all CHRONIC DISEASES of Men and Women, including the BROWN-
SEQUARD, KRAFTT=EBING, and KNOX-MERCER TREATfIENT for all ACUTE INFLAMMA-
TORY and CHRONIC COfIPLAINTS, in the treatment of which he has been so successful during his
14 years’ Australian practice, thus ensuring all Patients entrusting themselves to his care an accurate
diagnosis, together with prompt and effectual treatment.
COUNTRY PATIENTS treated by Correspondence (Fee, by letter, £1). Medicines forwarded to all
parts of Australasia. All communications confidential. Dr. MARTIN has treated over 20,000 cases during
the last 15 years—a success unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia.
Moderate Charges* Effectual Treatment* Absolute and Rapid Cures*
CONSULT ATION HOURS—IO to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
THE WORLD’S GRANDEST . .
CIGARETTE
5^
,TE .'/PRESS
(VIRGINIA GRADE)
No. 555
Absolutely Unique in Quality.
A Revelation to all Cigarette Smokers.
No. 999
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Ltd., Wholesale Tobacconists,
Wholesale Agents for Australia. wW SYDNRV and BRISBAN
.
Sole Manufacturers: AJtOATH TOBACCO CO., *4 Worship Street, London, England.


CELLULOID
COLLAR
GOODNESS
We sell the good kind of Celluloid
Collars. Our Celluloid Obllars
have a nice, white, clean apjpear-
ance, and stay white. They clean
well, and last longer than other
kinds. They save lots of monojy, be-
cause you can wash them youjrself.
In all the latest styles and
shapes, at Lowest Prices
for Highest Qualities.
PERDRIAU & CO.
Rubber Merchants,
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe deiiV'
Highest, grade Cycles. Fully warn i
Models
Dunlop Tvres, Steel or Wood
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Bi
o
Kims,
r akes.
CARRIAGE PAIO
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sev|/
ing
; Machines Half Usual Prices.
Offer
1346 D
Write for Catalogue and Special
*'■£ “ iMßteats Dept
Using sjd. Stamp. Address
ery
nted.
Mead Cycle Co.
ChicaujOf
IJ.S.A.
60
YEARS DYEIHG
FOR THE LADIES, j
W. C. ZELIDIfcIDG-lE] &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
( onntry Orders by post from, all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY-
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
■
For all Services kept in Stock.
BeudL for o»t»log«©»
Spoons, porks.
Celebrated
PLATE and
AS33U.no sjossioS »
lip
J. & J. MAXFIELD, PROI’KS.. SHEFFIELD
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St.
SYDNEY
Also at
“THE BLOCK, 1 ’
CoMins-st.. MELBOURNE,
H. P.
COij
for Sale andL -to arrive _ j|ft
PUMPING MACHINERY of eiery description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters an
Machinery, Engineers’ Mach ne Tools, Shaf ing, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil.
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 345 Bourke St.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED
Consulting Engineers on all matters relating to mining, hydraulic, and general engineering
propositions. Manufacturers and importers of mining machinery, and steam engines and boilers
of all kinds. Mines furnished with complete plants Milling, Concentrating, Cyaniding?
Chlorinating 1 &c Pumping outfits designed and supplied with all plans necessary for erection,
capacUy guaranteed. All classes of pumps kept in stock and ready for immediate delivery;
together with boilers, pipes, and other items of equipment. Correspondence invited from
pastoralists and others requiring plant for irrigating purposes. Brickworks designed and brick-
making machinery of the most modern and approved pattern supplied to order. Quotations
given for complete installation of any kind of plant whatsoever. Iron and woodworking tools
and all kinds of engineers’ fittings and supplies kept in stock. Agents for Ingersoll rock drills
and air compressors, Knowles pumps, Gates rockbreakers, etc., etc., etc.
60 Clarence St.,
Sydney
iLDDfIESSSKS :
533 Collins St,
Melbourne
21 & 23 Fremont St,
San Francisco
-DEAF
Mufltoror* from Deafnea* or Hek..
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The h. R. VERNON CO.
.0 HUNTER MT., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet deecObltiß an entirely new ■elf-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning: this paper.
. uM
t'AA AAA AAA AAA AAA mm mmmmm-n-ii k
a LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH, C
a DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY, C
3 A Gentleman having tried In vain every
3 advertised remedy, and at last dls-
a coy- od a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
J CUK 3* will forward the same* free of
a charge, to anyone interested. £
j Address iA. MINER. G.P.0.. SYDNEY. |
AMERICAN
“HANN”
HAMMOCKS
The Acme of Comfort.
Instantly convertible from Sitting to Reclining Position.
Holds it's full width st all times. Has adjustable arms
and V \dded head-re, gt. A Swinging Arm-Ohair, conform-
ing to the Imd.v, and rests one all over. Made of Fancy
St riped I hick. st rong enough for heavy people. Size,
7ft. xHI in. The “ llann " Hammock packs small enough
to be sent by parcels post; we, therefore, pay carriage to
any State in the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
PRICE No. 1 (without fringe) .. 17/6
No. 40 (with handsome fringe) .. .. 21/-
No, 50 (with valance and fringe .. .. 257-
Orders should be addressed—
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-2.31 Collins-St., flelboume.
AIL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&
t-
-0
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- A 2/6
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM ft SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney,
The‘Raplin’ Hand Ice Machine
Ice produced by simply turning handle. A decanter
of water made ice cold in 3 minutes. No risk, no trouble.
Invaluable in the country, where ice cannot he bought.
The ‘Abbott* Filter
Stops all disease germs. Makes the foulest water pure
and wholesome Easily cleaned. Erom 22s 6d.
Full Particulars on application to
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Af/ents. 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
CURIOUS
BOOKS
ETC.
The Largest Catalogue of
ENGLISH and
FRENCH BOOKS ,
with all novelties, Is.
Apply—
-116 Box Paris.
Trewhella Bros.
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
m
m
If you have Stumps, Hoots, Stones, or Lops to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. Thev
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
\ou can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Prick
Double Purchase Jack 4 65 -
» >i »» 6 75 -
Single „ „ 2J 40 -
With Patent LOWERING CEAR, 5 extra
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victoria,
or H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
