

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet
XS. O-o WATKINS <&C GO.,
10*7 Kent Street, Sydney,
_ . . —FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over 2700 Hydro-Extractors Sold and at work
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, BoxS, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 Ceorge-st., Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-a> pm street, SYDNEY
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADB ENT’S
ST .WI^ N HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send foi
Testimonials and full
■ ■ . Vi
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exposive. Cor. CLARENCE &. KING STS., SYDNEY
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HOBART.
Radley's Orient Rotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
H.M. the King's
Jury of Experts
awarded them
highest honors
London Exhibi-
tion-
*
“ The Lancet ”
says : “ Pure and
genuine, and
specially suitable
for Invalids.”
HT^ii
DICESTION
PIONEER
LEATHER
every belt guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty BtrLurriN Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; priee, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
A Policy for the Commonwealth :
A Handy Maaual of Politics. By Jambs
Edmond. Price, 6d. ; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
VAN
economy in -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
IKE mm !l SWAM
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Bramch: 16 Carrington-street.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q'nsland Depot—Central Building's, Edward-st., Brisbane.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Clyde Engineering C?y.Lt°
mm
Desiccating Plants. Hopper Waggons, &c.
m
PROOF
Head Ojfct:
10 SUCH ST., SYDNEY
BOOMERANG
ROYALTY DRINKS IT.
EXPERTS APPROVE IT.
DOCTORS PRESCRIBE IT.
PATIENTS RELISH IT.
Judges award it Prize Medals wherever exhibited.
BY POST, A MEDICAL
TREATISE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple lor all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENGY, Casilereagh St.
SITIDIfcTIEJ'Y'-
TTSTT* _
SPOONER’S
Hi
aj
~i- Hi
mm
WM
SPOONERS
y m%
*
ATIMT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED RIOS ft?
>• a ■
&.mt*ih***+ »K
***** **»••*»% %t* «H(
••••-Hi'**•-
v-,i
S 3
rpaiaiiiy
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing: for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Bro., Era.
Sold by all Storekeeper*.
Boot Shops. Saddlers, eta,
The Bulletin
Vol. 24.—N0. 1210.]
[Saturday, April 25, 1903.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Book trade Advertisement.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT —'
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Musketry Regulations, War Office, 1903, Is, postage 2d.
Bastable, Public Finance (3rd Edition), 15s, p. lOd.
Dp La Rev (Mrs ), A Woman’s Wanderings : Boer War,
‘ 4d. Hutchinson, ’Bert Edward, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Stone and Field, My Friend Bilhooley, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Lovell, Concentration (2nd Edition, enlarged), 2stid, p. 4d.
Kennard (Mrs.). The Professional Rider, 2s & 2s 6d, p. 6d.
Winter (John Strange), Marty, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you Want. . .
We are always pleased to answer Inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doera South of King St.) &at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
For tb.e XiXJIvrG-S, tile THROA.T, tbeVOXC
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Larynx, or organ o
VOlCe. '
B. The Trachea or windpipe,
o. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected long-
I). A lobe of one of thelun„
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
oIN G E R
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered)
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug
SOLO BY ALL CHEMISTS,
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot
Melbourne, Agents.
n Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich, yuee
ipot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE, and FELTON, ORIMWA W
-jswich, Queensland-^,
THE RED PAGE .
A CLERGYMAN’S WIFE.
SHE has lived thirty-two years in Australia —
Thirty Years in Australia is Che title of her book
(Methuen; 2s. 6d.)— and “we have been home-
sick practically all the time—good as Australia
has been to us. At any moment of these thirty
odd years we would have made for our native land like
homing pigeons, could we have found the means ; it was
only the lack of the necessary ‘ sinews ’ that prevented
us.” So Ada Cambridge writes of herself and her hus-
band, G. F. Cross, Anglican clergyman at Williamstown,
near Melbourne.
The persistency of England in her is the chief reason
why Ada Cambridge’s novels, written on a plane of
moderate merit, have been commercially profitable. She
has two audiences. Her books are written in Australia,
more or less about Australia ; but they are characteristi-
cally English. The Australian element is sufficient to
give them a pleasant novelty for English palates ; yet it
is not obtrusive, it is not foreign. Typical Australian
writers are foreign for English readers : they write of
things that the average Englishman has not before heard
of, in a way that the average Englishman cannot compre-
hend. .The typical Australian writer takes Australia
for granted : he does not explain things ; and
thus he misses the English audience. But Ada Cam-
bridge is not a typical Australian writer : she
is an English writer resident in Australia, pre-
serving always the English point of view. In Aus-
tralia we can 'still appreciate the English point of view,
while relishing the Australian landscape ; so that our
authoress makes the best of both hemispheres. Novels
of the same quality as hers would be scarcely profitable
if sold in Australia alone : we have not yet population
enough.
Mrs. Cross is 5S years of age ; she has been married for
82 years ; she has published nearly a score of books ; and
the last, Thirty Years in -Australia , is the book- of her
life. The book of her heart may not be written by a
clergyman’s wife. Here, as in Unspoken Thoughts, A
Marked Man, and elsewhere, we are given glimpses
behind the decent veil—glimpses of revolt, sad glimpses.
But a clergyman’s wife must march with the regiment.
**
Thirty Years in Australia can be read with
pleasure, though it is concerned chiefly with the
trivial details (to her so momentous) of Ada Cambridge’s
married life. The book is singularly shallow, considering
how deeply run the currents of the writer’s character.
Only two or three pages have literary value. But the style
of the whole is so simple, so sincere, so natural and
womanly, that one cannot help being charmed with
it. We read how Mrs. Cross was “ the most sea-
sick lady they had ever carried ”to Australia; how
she “ never hired a sewing - woman—having made
all my own clothes as a girl, even to the wedding-
gown, I made all my children’s, until the boys
grew beyond their sailor suits, and the girl put her hair
up how “ housework has all along been the business
of life ; novels have been squeezed into the odd times” ;
how “ the Murray wriggles between its two colonies like
a length of waved dress braid” ; how if a son had lived
“he would have been a man of thirty now—married
doubtless, and perhaps to some woman who would have
made him wretched ” ; how Archibald Forbes fell so
deeply in love—“ in a strictly platonic fashion, of
course ” —with “ the gifted lady who painted flowers
so marvellously”; how Mrs. Cross used to walk
about Melbourne at night with the governess—
“ in about three garments, the most delightful costume
that I ever wore in my life,” and was never molested or
annoyed ; how Mrs. Cross went to a private hospital in a
black hour, and was overcharged by the chloroformist;
how “ within one year [lBB6] 270 new companies were
registered in Melbourne, having an aggregate nominal
capital of fifty-two millions ” —and Mr. Cross, by hurry-
ing, just managed to get his stipend deposited before his
bank closed (for months) ; how Mrs. Cross boomed with
the rest, and received £197 for the serial rights of A
Marked Man “ where now shillings are hard to come by ”
(in The Australasian office !) ; how Mrs. Cross travelled
with a Governor’s wife in a saloon railway carriage, and
the Governor’s wife was prostrated by the heat, and the
Governor held a wet cloth against the window, and a
Minister was asked to get the carriage hosed, and
couldn’t because “It would blister the paint!”—how’
“ the father of the family likes his bed, and is not in the
habit of exciting himself”; how Mrs. Cross had one boy
at Melb. Grammar School, and one at Geelong, and at the
schools’ boat-race used to wear a breast-knot of light-
blue and dark-blue ribbons, “mixed in exactly equal pro-
portions”; how she, the rector’s wife, surreptitiously
sent her puddings to a priest’s table when there was
company, “ for our puddings, 1 may modestly state, were
good”; how “When Edward Wilson of The Argus
bequeathed the charge of his interests in that paper to
the friend who for thirty years conserved them so
well . . . the last instructions of the dying man were :
‘ Keep it gentlemanly, and never let them be mean.’ ”
All that, and much more—the whole work-box.
Then, there are some stories—too few. Why
did not Mrs. Cross give us more stories? It testifies to
her sweetness that she never lost a servant-girl until
marriage, and that she has been petted by the best society
of Melbourne. But she has not “made copy” out of
her society—or not in this book. She did not wish
to —very well. This is her book, not a book for you—
all right. Then, what have we ? The story of the verger
who stood for congregation at a marriage service, but
could not read responses, so was instructed to say
“ Amen.” “ Every time G. paused to take a breath, no
matter where, a loud ‘ Amen ! ’ was shot into the breach.”
“ Who giveth this woman to be married to this man?”
“ Amen ! ”
The story of the bush concert where “ our priina donna,
a young married lady, confessed to riot feeling very well.”
“However, she went through the two hours programme
unflinching! j r .” “The situation had grown desperate
before she was nearly through with her last number.”
“ When the rest of us got home afterwards, it was to
hear that our prima donna had become a mother rather
less than two minutes after gaining the shelter of her
own house.’’—And “ I think,” says Mrs. Cross, with a
charming little air of reflection, “I think that was the
most interesting concert I was ever at.” (Note the adj.)
The story of the fashionable Melb. house-party, in-
cluding the Boseberys, which one afternoon went out to
their host’s tennis-ground. They found a crowd of cheap
holiday excursionists in the middle of an exciting game.
“ Did they seurrv away, scared, on the appearance of the
smart folks from" the house ? Did anybody order them
off, or even request them to desist ? Not a bit of it.
They calmly continued their game, which took along
time, while we sat down meekly and waited. When they
had quite done they trooped away without a word, and
then Lord Rosebery wearily took up his racquet and
started to play.”
O brave democracy 1
Jt
Ada Cambridge has had eight homes in Aus-
tralia—a clergyman’s wife I Pathetic clergymen's wives :
in these very domesticated thirty years in Australia
we hear all about their babies and their troubles.
Mrs. Cross’s own new baby pops up at every fortieth page
or so ; and (tears of mothers !) by-and-by she tells us of
this death in babyhood, that death in boyhood, the death
of “my eldest son, in the prime of his fine young man-
hood—which for me has altered the whole face of the
worl'd and of the future.”
A h me / the hidden griefs
Watered with tears :
Centuries, Time the thief's
Stolen from years !
This wonderful woman! one thinks. Husband and
family; births and deaths; seventeen books or more;
and withal an invalid for long, yet making her own
dresses, her own furniture, helping and supervising her
household, breaking-up her home seven times, and, in
the earlier years, assisting in the work of the parish !
The tragedy of clergymen’s wives !
Even Mrs. Cross glows when she thinks of it, though
she says “I, however, have not been a victim.” Yet “it
is not surprising to find a pious man killing his wife by
inches without having the slightest notion that he is
doing so.” And she cites a horrifying example.
Amongst my colleagues of those [earlier] days was a
lady of exceptional culture and refinement. Her hus-
band, a Bush clergyman like my own, was poor, of
course, and they averaged a baby a year until the
baker’s dozen was reached, if not passed. The wav she
“ kept ” this family was such that I never saw a dirty
child or a soiled table-cloth, or a slatternly touch of
any sort in her house. She taught the children as they
grew old enough ; I know that she did scrubbing and
washing with her own hands. In addition, she did
“ the parish work.”
One day, when she was run down and worn out, her
husband told her that the organist, from some cause,
was not forthcoming, and there was no time to procure
a substitute. “ So, my dear, you will have to play for
us.” He knew that she could do it, for she had often
done it before ; it was the merest trifle of a task, com-
pared with those she hourly struggled with ; but it
was the one straw too many that breaks the over-
loaded back. She looked at him in silence for a
moment, flung out her arms wildly, and, exclaiming
“ I can do no more ! ” went mad upon the spot.
Happy clergyman’s wife ! she marches with the regiment
no longer.
NEWLY PUBLISHED
New paper, new publisher, at Christchurch
begun—
Fun;
Andrew Kennaway Henderson ....
Such a little fun
to such a lot of Andrew Kennaway Henderson !
The Newspaper Press Directory of C. Mitchell
and Co., London, now in its 58th year of issue, includes
simply the best Australasian Press Directory extant.
(Nevertheless, as to minor newspapers, it needs revision
to date.)
A new cookery book is called Please , M’m, the
Butcher !
“ Boondi's Book,” “by ‘ Boondi,’of the ‘Sunday
Times ’ and ‘ Referee ’ —AOareful Selection of the Author’s
Most Entertaining Writings,” is published by the Sunday
Times Newspaper Company, Limited, Sydney. The con-
tents are referred to in a preface as “ journalistic jottings
(original and otherwise).” Readers will find the “ other-
wise ” more prominent than the “ original.” We cannot
see that “ Boondi ” has added anything of value to the
long extracts that he has scissored or paraphrased from
J. M. Bailey, J. K. Jerome, and sources unacknowledged.
The staple of Boondi’s Book is supplied by J. M. Bailey,
the American humourist famous as “The Banbury
Newsman.” “ Boondi” usually introduces his quotations
with “My friend Bailey says ” ; but there is no further
acknowledgment, and probably not one Australian reader
in a thousand is aware that the passages following this
introduction are “conveyed” from Life in Danbury.
Indeed, it is likely that some readers think that “My
friend Bailey” is merely a peg ui)on which “Boondi”
hangs his humourous observations, in the same way that
F. P. Dunne makes use of “ Mr. Dooley” and “ My fri’nd
Hinnessv.” Colour is given to this idea by the insertion
of local allusions (such as “ like carrots at Paddy’s
Market,” p. 108) in “ The Danbury Newsman’s ” matter.
Bpondi’s Book contains twenty-five sketches reprinted
from The Sunday Times. In the first sketch, “House
Hunting,” some two columns are credited to “ a man of
bitter experience” (unspecified). “The Joys of a Jam-
boree,” out of eight columns, has six columns credited to
J. K. Jerome. The other two columns include references
to “ King Gygees ” and “ Heretodus” that are certainly
original. In “ Why Wear Clothes?” we strike “My
friend Bailey ” and scraps from various sources. “ The
Worried Woman and the Hatching Hen ” is made up of
“a good story I once read” and J. M. Bailey’s “ Driving
a Hen ” —not acknowledged, and not improved by para-
phrasing. “ The Awfulness of Arithmetic” is eqmposed
of “a little tale of the Tyrol” (two columns), Jerome
(two columns), scraps, and commentary. “ Winter Wag-
geries” contains a paraphrase of Max “ Adder’s ”
story of the man whose house-door slammed on
his nightshirt. “Figure Facts and Fancies” has four
columns of “ My friend Bailey,” scraps, and commentary.
“The Sorrows of Spring”—“my friend Dailey”—four
columns. “The Helpfulness of Hobbies”—“my friend
Bailey ’’--four columns. “ Our Wintry Woes ” —“ a gifted
and much-admired friend named Bailey”—three columns.
“ Love’s Young Dream”—“l have read,” two columns;
“my friend Bailey,” two columns. “The Business and
Burdens of a Boy”—“my old friend Bailey,” seven
columns ; J. K. Jerome, two and one-half columns. “A
Sultry Subject”—“my friend Bailey”—four columns.
“The Problem of the Pocket” —“my friend Bailey”—
two columns. Of ten other sketches, at least five are
more or less made up of newspaper scraps strung
together from various sources.
The most remarkable example of “ Boondi’s ” talent is
the sketch entitled “ Slaves : Past and Present.” Three
years ago Edwin Pugh, a clever English writer,
published in To-Day an unforgettable picture of
the life of an English labouring woman married
to a selfish husband. The Sunday Times (Sydney)
reprinted this with due acknowledgment—“ The
Woman at Home. By Edwin Pugh, in To-Day.”
‘ 1 Boondi ” has copied or paraphrased this sketch, with the
addition of an introduction and some Australian refer-
ences, and it now appears in Boondi’s Book without a
word of acknowledgment to Pugh. Some juxtaposed
passages will show how close is the travesty—
Edwin Pugh.
“Maria, I do wish you'd
get up to them there chil-
dren. They make such a
hell of a row I oan’t get a
wink.”
The woman rises shivering
from the sheets in the foggy
dawnlight, and slips out of
bed. Her thin night-dress,
in the wind of her move-
ment, swathes her body
closely as she strikes a
match, and she is revealed :
a woman of thirty, thin and
shapeless, with a sallow,
weary face that may once
have been pretty, but never
good to look on, because of
its expression—still latent
—of slack foolishness.
There are two children
sleeping together in a cot
heside the bed—one, an
infant not many weeks old ;
the other, a babe of some
fifteen months. The pad-
pad-padding of the woman’s
bare feet on the boards
arouses the infant and it
cries. The woman takes it
in her arms, and, hushing it,
sidles out of the room. The
man in bed listens intently ;
and as his nose is the only-
visible part of him the effect
ii as if he listened with that.
“Boondi’s Book.”
“ Gorstrooth, Missus !
Carn’t you quieten some
of them blarsted kids ?
They’d wake a bloomin'
mummy or a night-watch-
man. ’Ow's a blanky man
t’ do his day’s work if ’e
carn’t git ’is night’s sleep ?
Shin out an’ spank th’
blarsted hide off them 1 ’’
Quickly, but quietly,
“ the Missus ” “ shins out ”
a 6 ordered, and the wind of
the movement causes her
poor, thin night-dress to
cling closely to her poor,
thin bod} 1 . She strikes a
match, lights a candle, and
reveals a worn, weary
woman of about thirty-five
years, with a sallow,
pinched face that was pro-
bably pretty before she ex-
perienced the happiness of
being a wife. There are two
children sleeping together
in a cot near the bed ; one
an infant of about six
weeks old, the other a babe
of some fifteen months,
and an elder child lies on a
shake-down on a floor . ..
The pad - pad of the
woman’s bare feet wakes
the infant, and it sounds
its “A ” preparatory to
starting the usual “ Morn-
ing Symphony” in six
sharps. The woman takes it up, and, hushing it,
hurrie%out to stop the cyclone in the next room. The
man in bed listens intently, and, as his nose is the only
pa rt of him to be seen, it looks as if he were listening
with that.
end—
Edwin Pugh.
Soon after half-past 12
the man returns, somewhat
fuddled, moody, quarrel-
some. He finds his wife
with her head among the
greasy plates and dishes,
fast asleep. He shakes her
by the shoulder roughly,
and she awakes with a
scream. He bullies her,
pushes her roughly against
the wall, then goes snarling
to bed. In a little while
she creeps after him, snivel-
ling quietly, and slips in
between the sheets and
nestles up to his senseless
body.
“Jim, gimme a kiss,” says
she, “jest to go to sleep
with.”
Thus “ Boondi ” follows and vulgarises Pugh until the
“ Boondi’s Book.”
About half-past 12 Jim
staggers in, full of plans
for “ reformin’ the blanky
Guvemnnt ” and a mixed
assortment of liquors, and,
finding his unfortunate wife
asleep with her weary head
pillowed on a thin arm, he
shakes her by the shoulder
so roughly that she wakes
up with a scream. Then he
begins:to bully and bounce
her for not having any sup-
per ready for him, pushes
her roughly against the
wall, and goes, snarling to
bed. Half an hour after,
when her patching and
darning is done, the woman
creeps to hed, too, snivel-
lingslightly, and too fagged
out to sleep. Her “ lord
and master ” is too bulged
out (with beer) to sleep soundly, so she nestles close to
his hulking body and imploringly says :
“ Jim, gimme a kiss—just one little one to sleep on 1 ”
We can commend neither “ Boondi’s” methods nor his
results.
J*
G. H. Ellwanger, author of The Pleasures of the
Table , an account of gastronomy, reminds us that
Sardanapalus, last of the Assyrian kings, offered a guerdon
of a thousand pieces of gold to him who would i induce a
new dish. “Eat, drink, amuse thyself: all else is
vanity,” was his maxim, and the precept he desired to
have ‘engraven on his tomb. It is recorded that Mark
Antony, more than usually pleased with his dinner, sent
for the cook and presented him with a city of 35,000 in-
habitants.
In England 400 or 500 years ago, people took four
meals—breakfast at seven, dinner at ten, supper at four,
and livery at eight.
Since then, from an early hour in the morning the
principal daily meal has advanced equally in France
and England through every hour from ten in the fore-
noon until ten at night. In France in the thirteenth
century nine in the morning was the dinner-hour.
Henry VII dined at eleven. In Cromwell’s time one
o’clock had come to be the fashionable hour, and in
Addison’s day two o’clock, which gradually became
adjourned until four. Pope found fault with Lady
Suffolk for dining so late as four, saying young people
might become inured to such things, but as for himself,
if she would adopt such unreasonable practices be must
absent himself from Marble Hill. Four and five con-
tinued to be the popular dining-hour among the better
classes until the second decade of the century, when
dinner was further postponed, from which period it has
steadily continued to encroach upon the evening.
The clergy have been always bulwarks of good living.
Ellwanger tells a story of a French wedding dinner at
which the officiating pastor was present. After every
course, he raised his glass and exclaimed, “My children,
with this you must drink some wine.” The turn of
dessert arriving, he repeated his injunction for the tenth
time, again setting the example himself. “ Pardon,
Monsieur le Cur 6,” one of the guests interrupted, “but
with what do you not drink wine?” “With water, my
son! ”
Of Bignon’s famous Paris restaurant these capital
legends are revived :
“Fifteen francs for a peach?" inquired Prince
Narischkin ; “they must be very scarce.” “It is n’t
the peaches that are scarce, mon prince ; it is the
Narisehkins.” “ Monsieur Bignon, a red herring at
two and a half francs ! It seems to me that is exces-
sive.” “ But these prices are marked in your interest,”
rejoined the restaurateur. “It is the barrier I have
established between my clients and the vulgar. Why
do you come here ? To be among yourselves, to avoid
embarrassing or compromising surroundings. If I
changed my prices the house would be invaded, and
you would all leave.”
Another patron who complained of a sauce was
asked, “ Did you dine here last evening?” “No,” he
replied. “ That is the trouble, then ; you spoiled your
taste in the other restaurant,.” Still another guest
objected to the charges on his bill, comparing it with
an identical breakfast of a few r days previous, which
amounted to eighteen and a half francs, whereas the
breakfast in question was charged twenty-one francs
eighteen centimes. “ I will investigate the mistake,”
said Bignon, who, with the two bills, proceeded to his
desk, returning shortly afterwards. “It is very true,
Monsieur, that a mistake was made in your favour last
Monday ; but I make no claim for restitution !"
The new “ library edition ” of Ruskin is to
include “about thirty-two” vols., each 21s. net. For-
tunately it will not be necessary to read them all.
BOOKFELLOW'S MEMORANDA
Whitewashing Julia, H. A. Jones’s new play at Lond.
Garrick, has been capitally advertised by Walkleying
Jones. Jones complained to his manager, Arthur Bour-
chier, that for four years A. B. Walkley, The Times
dramatic critic, had attacked him personally and had
criticised his work unfairly.
In recent years the notices in The Times upon me
and my work have passed the limits of criticism, and
have degenerated into personalities and hints that
scarcely stop on the safe side of libel.
When in place of criticising my play the writer sug-
gests that I am a “ viveur ” ; when he goes out of the
way to comment upon how and where I spend my time
and money ; when the original notice is followed by
numerous after-thrusts ; when these ingenious little
attacks are insinuated into notices of other plays ;
when they are repeated week after week in the Friday
literary supplement of The Times ; when this is con-
tinued over a space of years, I do not think we can be
charged with over-sensitiveness to criticism if we ask
the editor that on Monday The Times shall be repre-
sented by someone whose mind is in a less distracted
condition to judge of my work.
To give one instance : A few years ago I produced
The Manoeuvres of Jane, at the Haymarket. The
play, its story, its motives, its characterisation, are
doubtless fresh in the memory of playgoers. They
shall tell me whether I am wrong in describing it, as
what I intended it to be, a harmless piece of fun. This
little piece was described in a weekly journal by the
author of the recent Times notices as a “ com6die
rosse ” [Ang. coarse, suggestively improper, and worse.
—B.], the most offensive epithet that can be applied
to a play. I think we may Submit to English playgoers
that the writer who could describe The Manoeuvres
of Jarte as a rosse must have “a curious
mind,” and that he is not quite competent to taste for
them in these matters.
So Bourchier turned up a Times file, read and re-read
Walkley’s criticisms for four years, and agreed that Jones
had been the subject of “bear-baiting.” He wrote to
The Times; received no reply ; and when Walkley
arrived as usual on the first night of Whitewashing
Julia he was refused admission. The Times noted the
fact, and nothing more ; and that is the history to
March 14.
L. J. Brient, writing from London to Sydney
Telegraph , notes the new respect paid to Australian
political precedents by Englishmen. “ Speakers not only
impress their audiences, but carry conviction with th
declaration : ‘This is what they do in Australia Brieni
says both Barton and Wise were more effective speaker
in Knsrland-than he torn d them in Australia. Contrast
ing Rosebery with Wise, he says the latter commits »
fault common to most Australian after-dinner speaks™
of the higher order—he crowds too much matter into a
speech. “Lord Rosebery usually makes one point and
usually coins one phrase, in an after-dinner speech ’ The
point is remembered, and the phrase sticks.” Brienr’.
letters grow more interesting. But he must not write
“ very analogous to.”
Mark the continuous novel in Eng. Review of
Reviews, with a hint of wounded snake about it. It began in
January, but it is to end only when Pitt would have laid
down his arms if he had been an American. Current
topics are to be the warp of an eternal woof, unless Stead
tires of it. For our own part, we are tired of it ahead,.
We are also tired of
Bernard Shaw’s monotonous pose,
Dana Gibson’s monotonous drawings,
Andrew Ower-Lang,
Mrs. Humphry Ward.
And, since C. Wragge has a refuge on Mt. Kosciusko
we do wish he would crawl in, with a proper medicinal
provision of whisky and tobacco, and nail up the door
from the inside.
(Though Bernard Shaw was serious enough the other
day, when he told a London audience that he had lost
faith in nearly all his old ideals, including socialism and
democracy, and retained little more than a hope that
somehow good would be the final goal of ill. Moral for
reformers : Marry a rich wife, and retire from business.)
Dramatic-writer Augustus Moore (brother of
George) wrote the scenario of a musical piece based on
Charles O'if alley, and offered it to theatrical-manager
George Edwardes. Edwardes handed it to dramatic-
writer Tanner, who recommended refusal. Then
Edwardes produced The Country Girl, written by Tanner
and embodying (Moore alleged) ideas taken from Moore's
MS. Moore claimed damages for infringement of copy-
right. Case heard before Eng. Chief Justice and a jury
on March 2 ; verdict for plaintiff, iilOO.
Bulletin’s London correspondent adds a gloss: This
case was a great triumph for the comparatively poor
playwright over the theatrical autocrat, and there is
rejoicing in the ranks of the perennially-despoiled “ ori-
ginal and unknown ” authors. It is a glaring warning
to every Australian dramatist, novelist, and story-teller
not to submit brain-wares to Lond. market unless they'
or a trustworthy representative, be on the spot to safe-
guard their interests. Ideas are very gold and diamonds
here, and the law of copyright protects them poorly. There
are theatrical managers, publishers, editors, whose theatres
and publications shine with the filched gems of
fresh, bright intellects. They know a “good idea”
when tney see it, and they are skilled in the art of
lifting and resetting. These men grow wealthy and
prominent on “ submittals.” No man with a new rifle or
gold-saving invention would submit it to a capitalist
until patent protection had been obtained. The play-
wright or author, with no safeguard but the “honour”
(forgive us !) of the possible purchaser, lays before him
fully the cherished products of his brain and experience.
Sometimes he is robbed so cleverly and through dummies
that he never realises his injury ; and if he have enough
experience to realise the theft he has also sufficient to
know his impotence and the hopelessness of successfully
vindicating his claims. Most of the “brain-sneakers”
referred to have “ hacks” in their employ to whom stolen
ideas are tossed to be cunningly dressed-up for the
public’s digestion, while the MSS. are returned to the
authors with thanks —for the gift-ideas—and regrets—
that there were not more of them.
D. G. Rossetti buried poems and things: W. M.
digs them up. Rossetti Papers, 1862-70, is a fresh (?) collec-
tion to be published shortly. My own Rossetti glow has
not faded (though I found his pictures thin and weak at a
first glance, and disappointing—the work of a man who
knew what he wanted [and that always the fine thing]
but had not technical skill to attain it, lacked the sure,
strong touch, wavered and hesitated. Jacob had to
wrestle hard with the angel before he was blessed, and
“I fight my pictures,” says Verestschagin. Rossetti
could n’t hit hard enough : his painter’s muscle was
flabby. But, at the second glance, going half-way to
meet the emotion, the emotion came, and stayed. I
agree with R. that his poems are his best expression, as a
result, a thing accomplished ; and think his pictures hold
more potency of result.) but Brother Bill’s beer is get-
ting a little too far from the parent malt.
Lond. Times spent nearly £60 to have Kipling’s
last piece of verse cabled from Capetown; and the
advertisement waswocthit. “The Settler” is written
for the occasion of African peace, and Kipling, who
knows what is expected to be said, what ought to he
said, and how it ought to be said, says it as well as
Kipling can. An effective mask of strength and dignity,
and the author peering behind it “Well?” “The
Settler” is to turn swords into plough-shares, as per
formula. Some stanzas—
Where my fresh-turned furrows run and the deep soil
glistens red,
I mil repair the wrong that was done to the living and
the dead:
Here where the senseless bullet fell, and the barren
shrapnel burst,
I will plant a tree, I will dig a well, against theheat and
the thirst.
Bless then, our God, the new-yoked plough, and the good
beasts that draw,
And tlie bread we eat in the sweat of our brow according
to thy law:
After us cometh a multitude-prosper the work of our
hands
That we may feed with our land’s food the folk of all ou
lands !
Here in the waves and the troughs of the plains when the
healing stillness lies, ,
And the vast benignant sky restrains, and the long ,
make ivise — , ,
Bless to our use the rain and the sun and the him u ■
in its bed, .. .
That we may repair the wrong that was done to th 1
and the dead!
“ Mark Twain’s ” last idea is a book to bejealed
and published a hundred years after his death
temporary record that will give to, next cjmw
this’s (pardon the gambol: must fling a hee .
-or it may be a winning gambit: be carehfl. Hew^
is clear that the word, and not the ide , Q ua rtcHy
the simple sheep and their shady boon, as Ihe «
Review told Keats about y-and
dexterous reflection : would not h& ve r ,, twain—
to Tupper; but “ Me and Keats” glorifies
which reminds us) form and pressure. na JjhtV, and
I ’ll put you in ! ” he says invitingly. B S ■
I ’ll put yo u in ! ” he says threateningly.
Edward Lloyd was 58 years old on
His first public appearance was at Lond. forma l
on March 9,1870. A wealthy man, he has
farewell to the Eng. concert, platform, where
years” (he said) “ I have endeavoured to p
tenor of my way.”
(Continued on The Other Jted Page-)


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited.
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
Send your
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
T» |M
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick lteturns.
mi -
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRNIONT.
Sole Commission 3 Fer Cent, "to tlie Grower
on Large and. Small Accounts jfVlilte.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!!3™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
llheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA;
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
£BO6
6807
CBB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A 6UINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bara a
New One will be Exchanged for It Immediptely on Application.
So9d by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe
s
V'
m
■
X
: ’> : ‘ i
■ .
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacoo.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for th,e
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, Wfe
have very mugh pleasure in rfecopiraeflding
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
“SOLID SHOT” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Br iar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
Sole Agent for C. 8.8. Briar Pipes.
Send for Whole sale Price Lists.
“Arkansas” Mixture
A Blend of the very highest grade Tobaccos.
Packed in |jb. Tins, 7s. 6d. lb.
Sample Jib. Tins, 25., post free.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w*
s „
56?
fu
v\i
v
WE have the means at hand to cure you ; we know what you require before you can regain your
vigor; you need New Life, New Nerve Force, New Ambition. Follow our advice—Use
ELECTRICITY ; it will cure you. STOP USING DRUGS ; THEY WON’T EVER CURE.
We know that the life of each organ, each nerve, depends upon a hidden vital force, and we
know that ELECTRICITY is that force. If each nerve cell in your body is full of NERVE FORCE
—ELECTRICITY—you can have no weakness. WE WILL SUPPLY THIS FORCE.
To the man or woman with LAME BACK, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NERVE EXHAUSTION, or any CHRONIC AILMENT, we can offer you a Sure and Certain Cure.
Long ago you passed the stage where DRUGS were of any value, and now your only chance of regaining
strength lies in using
Electric Belt.
It pours a gentle stream of life into the weak parts con-
tinually for hours every night. It refreshes the nerves, expands the vital powers, enriches the circulation, and makes you feel
bright, active, and vigorous in one night’s use. You get stronger each day, and in a few weeks you are a new man—stronger
and younger in the fire of youth. It is grand, this method of ours, and every man who has used it is praising it.
It is a Boon to Suffering Women. It subdues INFLAMMATION, cures that everlasting BACKACHE ; stops those
dragging pains that cause dark circles around the eyes ; cures Anaemia, Lassitude ; produces Healthy, Sound Sleep ; Stimu-
lates the Circulation of the Blood, and is invaluable to any woman who feels she is not what she should be in general health.
Dr.
It is made for you. It is the best way to use ELECTRICITY.
A GRATE FU L M, P. Eaglehawk, Vic., March 28th, ’O3.
Dear Sirs,
I have great pleasure in informing you that I carried out your instructions as near as possible from the beginning of January up to the beginning of
of this month, by wearing the belt when going to bed. After the first three weeks I wore it I began to feel better in myself, and was able to walk better,
and now lam pleased to say that the Belt has entirely cured me. Up to the time I called on you in Melbourne, the week before Christmas, I had been under
the doctor’s treatment for some time, and nearly physiced myself out of existence, so much so, that, between the physic and the want of sleep and rest, I
was almost run down, and had lost in flesh one stone six pounds. Immediately the Belt began to operate my appetite improved, and my strength also, and
now, thank God, through your advice and the Belt, lam quite well again. I weighed myself last week, and have again put on some of my lost flesh, to the
extent of over a stone.
When I was taken ill with the Sciatica I had just been returned to Parliament. I became so bad I could not walk, except under the most excruciating
pain, and had to hire a cab to take me to and from the House for over three weeks. I can honestly and fully recommend your Belt to anyone suffering from
this complaint.—l am, sirs, yours respectfully,
HAY KIRKWOOD, J.P., Member of Parliament for Eaglehawk.
Write for Free Book,
The pr. H)c[aughlin Co.,
100 W MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Of.ise—l67E Swanston street.
For the benefit of all persons interested in this Grand Remedy, we puolish a Beautifully-
Illustrated Book, giving cuts, and showing how we apply ELECTRICITY in all CHRONIC
AILMENTS. It gives, also, many names of people cured. Write for it. If you will get our book, read it carefully, and send us a statement
of your case, we will send you a WRITTEN DIAGNOSIS, which will NOT COST you a farthing. Remember, NO CHARGES WHAT-
EVER. You WASTE YOUR MONEY if you PAY FOR ADVICE, when we stand ready to give you the benefit of years of study and
practical experience. WE HAVE CONFIDENCE IN OUR OPINIONS, and deem this the only fair treatment for prospective patients.
If you can call we will give you a Free Test. Hours, 9 a.m. to B.SO p.m.


f,--
... ...
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renown ec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT :
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
The Best Thing
on Wheels. S
The OSdsmobiie
has demonstrated its ability to travel rough roads smoothly in all
kinds of weather. In a long distance endurance run between New
York and Boston in America— 500 miles—the Oldsmobile was the
only machine in the 1,000 lbs. and under class to make tne run
without a penalized stop, winning the highest award.
This runabout sells for at factory in America
and the freight is not large.
Starts at will from seat and is under instant control of the
operator. The cheapest reliable
automobile made. 5> 000 use *
Write for free catalogue.
Agents:
W. A. RYAN & CO., LTD., Auckland.
Olds Motor Works 9
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
The Bulletin's Popular Publications,
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Fifth Thousand. Cloth, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
THE BULLETIN RECITER
By Eighty Bulletin Writers. Sixth Thousand. Cloth, Illustrated, ss. ; postage, 4d.
ON OUR SELECTION
By A. H. Davis (“ Steele Rudd ”). Twelfth Thousand. Cloth, Illustrated, 65.; postage, Bd.
CASTRO’S LAST SACRAITENT
And Other Stories, by Albert Dorrington. Second Thousand. Cloth, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 7d.
Obtainable from all Booksellers, or from the Publishers—
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd., 214 George=St, Sydney, Australia.
DOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
CUIDE, 50 engravings, 3/6 ;
posted, 4 < Howto Mesmerise, 1/-; Maqio
Up-to-Date, 1/3 ; Metal Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6; Camille, 1/3 ; How to
Play Billiards, 1/3; How to Vamp, 13;
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
1/-: Poultry Keeping, 1/- ; Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 1/- ; Parlor Magic, 1/ ;
Dream Book, 1/- ; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6 ; Carpentry, 1/6 ; Lightning
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor, 1/6 ;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches anb Toasts,
1/3 ; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/3 ;
Book of Dialogues, 1 /-; Enquirer’s Oracle,
3000 subjects, 1,6 ; Self Instructor, 13;
How TO Dance, 1/3; Art of Boxing, 1/3 ;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3 ; Moll Flanders,
1/6; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3; Ven-
triloquism, 1/- ; Comic Reciter, 150 gems,
13 ; Irish Comic Reciter, 1/3; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3; Nigger Stump
Speeches, 1/3; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3 ; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6; Sappho (genuine), 1/6 ;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6;
Advice to Women, 1/3; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 3/-; Palmistry, chart and guide,
6d. ; Clog Dancing, 1/-. Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues—Plays, Conjuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc.
WILL- ANDRADE,
MAG,C 201 Bourke-st., Melbourne,
ARvAUii) ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
CLOTHED
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and*
——. of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Aertex Cellular Underwear is a. Sure Preventative against Chilly
*
Cellular Neglige Shirts,
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Dress Shirt*
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body-
Os 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs — 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Cellular Tennis Shirt*
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns slocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. fid. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. Cd. to 11s. 6d.
•> •
«<# *<*' it f+, .
> <v * •*, *, *. f 4
4% ’«s,
fte
A Piece op
Aertex Cellular Fabric.
Fabrics by the yard or piece—ln
Cottons, Bd. to Is. 9d. ; Lisle
Thread, Is. 3d. to 25.; Silk and
Cotton Mixture, 3s. 6d. ; Merinos
and Wools, 3s. 3d. to 4s. 9d. ; Silk
and Merino Mixture, 4s. 6d.
Send for Full Price List,
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. .. 15 6
C 2 ~ long waist, 14£in deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 141 in., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 8
F Ecru, Hiding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips .. 15 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. .. 86
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
High or Low Necks.
s. d.
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 5 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..76
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 6 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery .. .. 10 8
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..9 0
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
m
0
lli'i
. i. rUemleoc White Cotton, trimmed Embroidery,
Aertex L6llUla.r LnCmiSCS. 8g White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aettex Cellular Slip-Bodices. «t™! ““
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Bend for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Sole Agents.
There’s SECURITY in
,J? 0
!i/r % - ■ I. h,
; •
'OWf
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
i FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUCH the
Be
L
Sure they are
Carter's
TATTERS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
ADELAIDE CUP—
Morphettville, S.A., May 13 - 25,000 at 5/1
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES—
Randwick, N.S W., June 3 •-50,000 at 5U
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 4 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY" CO. doing business with Tasmania.


That hart}
cough ol
yours
what arc
you doing,
for it? Look
out, or it
will bind
you with
all the
a*
K
strength of a powerful chain.
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
cures coughs and colds, even hard
coughs and old colds.
Mrs. A. White, of Fitzroy, Victoria,
says: “I had a very hard cough night
and day. I tried many remedies, but
without relief. I thought my lungs
were nearly gone. I then tried Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. I began to improve
at once, and only one and one-half bot-
tles completely cured me.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them ! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
tn country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
THE No. O . .
FOLDING
POCKET KODAK
PUT
IT/
inJ
YOUR
WAISTCOAT
POCKET.
PRICE 31/- ONLY.
Full Particulars of all Dealers or of
KODAK Ltd.,
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PLBASB MENTION THIS P APRIL
S€ND US
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or frien
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10/6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
l a i r v A"
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Return,
CRAIG &. AIT KEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDSEY.
The representative book of Australian humor—
STEELE RUDD’S
“On Our Selection.”
O^INGTo/v,
FOR
The besr remedy
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS/*
Ask for Banning ton’s
! and seethatyou get it
COLDS,
„ BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA,
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 IQs,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
t23’ Send for a
Catalogue.
Wont Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE tC
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 1 Os.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
m
21/-
2 If
MOST MARVELLOUS VALUE
A SOLID SILYER KEYLESS
Hunting Watch*
Heavy Case, Sound Movement,
Perfect Timekeeper
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
21 j-
Posted Duty Free to any part of Australia.
Send for my New Illustrated Catalogue.
QUEENSLAND LEADING JEWELLER
H. F. SMITH,
Queen Street, Brisbane
and at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
WINCHESTER
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
“New Rival” and “Repeater”
F you are looking for reliable shotgun am-
munition, the kind that shoots when you
pull the trigger and where you point your
gun, buy Winchester Cartridges: “New Rival,”
loaded with Black powder; and “Repeater”
loaded with Smokeless. Insist upon having
Winchester Cartridges, and accept no others.
ALL DEALERS KEEP THEM.
<r
WB WINCH R<VTF.P GOODS.
M ( LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd
ELIZABETH STREET, iTELBOURNE.
good hair for ALL l
all Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustra
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it ia
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
gW For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NAT UR ALINE.
gW For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington B. Soul St Co.
Pitt-streefc, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MAOKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 Georg*
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE*
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*X*O DElr' y COMPETITION.
WINES n ‘** B z uis ouly * SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS. So.
Kent B rewery, SYDNEY.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Penitent.
I have done for ever with passion and wine*
Gold and glory and man’s applause ;
Ihe thrill in the marrow i 3 no more mine,
And mine no more is the hush, the pause
Of a heart spell-bound by a love divine.
I have wantoned right well in the joys of life,
And yielded myself without restraint
To the flowing bowl and the pleasures rife
In this age of ours; but, growing faint
And weak with years, I would quit the s rife.
I am grey and weary, and fain would tread
In ways far foreign to those I trod
When eyes invited and lips were red :
In youth to sin, in age to God—
That’s how the soul of man is wed.
I kneel to a white-faced Christ; I knelt
To red-lipped wantons a score of times:
He gives no sign that He hears ; they felt
My words make music, like golden chimes
That mingle with midnight stars and melt.
I eat dry crusts for my own soul's sake
Who fed and feasted on earth’s best fare ;
Drink pale, poor water, who used to slake
A kingly thirst in a vintage rare—
Red wine from the shores of some sunny lake.
The friendships fine and the fellowships—
Where are they now ? Gone, like the light
Of glowing youth. All gone the quips,
The jests, the songs ; and here to-night
I mumble a prayer with nerveless lips.
But grace is mine, and my faith is sure,
And the gates shall ope as I enter in ;
And I shall find (may it long endure)
A sweetness watching that first, fierce sin
When she who yielded with tears was pure.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Inspiration.
There’s a wind that sweeps through the Eay and
Night,
And like the lightning goes,
But none have heard the sound of its wings,
And none know whither it blows ;
But where’er it comes the thoughts of men
Are like clouds together hurled,
As they are carried with mystio speed
Over the crazy world.
We see no waving of leafy boughs,
Nor heave of the purple sea;
When this wind its fiercest blows, the Earth
May be still as the dead men be.
But the spirit feels its fiery breath,
And the souls of men are stirred,
As o’er the electric lines of Life
Is flashed the magic word.
The gale from the Spirit-land blows in,
And they who feel it glow
With an ecstasy and ardour like
The seers of long ago—
The vital and inspiring breath
With which ideas are sown,
Like visioned seeds, in the mystio soil
Where the spirit-flowers are grown !
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
The Queen Quest.
A wonderful, sweet and unwon bosom
In a glow where the sun shrinks and sta;g grow
dim,
With pale lips starved and a fainting blossom
Of love untended by lip and limb,
In lyric marches thro’ long dream-valleys
I sought; for far, in her blazing palace
A Queen bides, holds the cup, the chalice
For lips and blossom still kept a brim.
A Queen all gracious and gold and glowing,
Fairer than all men have deemed most fair !
I followed the harsh path and met in going
A pale-faced, tremulous wayfarer ;
He cried : “Your journeying once was mine;
Ere your feet be weary, forego the wine
For lip and blossom ! ” But still the shrine
Of my Queen blazed far, and the wine was there.
My blossom of love spake : “ Forget her towers :
Let me fall. As your hopes pass, let me pass.”
But came in my path in a place of flowers
A keen-lipped girl thro’ the still, green grass ;
And my soul flamed out to her scarlet lips,
And my blossom blazed to its petal-tips,
And the splendid Queen, in a far eclipse,
Paled, and melted, and no more was.
M.L.
M. CORMAC.
Nightfall.
The sun has set behind the western hill;
The sky glows crimson, and the shadows fall;
The twilight deepens o’er the sea, and all
Is softly still.
The day is passed ; and calmly comes the night.
The wind is hushed ; the billows surge no more ;
Save when they break along the sombre shore,
And glimmer white.
No echoes float across the rolling deep ;
The noise, the strife, the murmur die away ;
Hushed are the countless voices of the day—
The world’s asleep.
And now the night tide, rising, sweeps away
The last day’s footprints with a gentle hand ;
Scatters new shells and smooths the golden sand
For the new day.
So, when we reach the sunset of life’s day,
And from its cares and perturbations sleep,
The waters of forgetfulness shall sweep
Our tracks away.
M.r..
ANTHONY WEBB.


QWINQ TO INCREASED DEMAND FOR THE
HIGHEST CLASS OF SCOTCH WHISKY
THE PROPRIETORS ARE NOW PLACING ON THIS MARKET THEIR
“EXTRA SPECIAL” QUALITY
FOUR RED CROWN WHISKY,
OLD AND MELLOW,
the Mine as supplied under ROYAL WARRANT, and sold largely in Great Britain.
-♦
IN BULK AND BOTTLE. From all Hotels and Spirit Merchants.
Wholesale Agent, NORMAN SHELLEY, YORS STREET, SYDNEY.
Wasted Vitality
Totally Incapacitated.
“A Cheerful Mind and a Vigorous Body.”
The Case of Mr. C. W. HACK.
(fob the “times.”)
With the view of obtaining some idea as
to his opinions on the general trend of events
in which he was once the principal party
concerned, Mr. Charles William Hack, of
23 Eveleigh-street, Redfern, courteously
granted an interview to our representative.
The Reporter : “If you will carry your
memory back to three years ago I would
like you to tell me exactly how you stood
from a physical standpoint.”
Mr. Hack : “If it will render a service
to anybody else, I will tell you with plea-
sure, although the subject recalls such a
wretched period of my existence that I
would like to forget it altogether. My
trade is a carpenter, and I am glad to say
that I could always get plenty of work ; but
three years back I was so thoroughly run
down that I could not do it. I had been
in an indifferent state of health for
some months previously, being generally
‘out of sorts,’ as people term it, and
I thought I had caught a chill and re-
quired a rest. On the Monday morning
I felt so fatigued that I dropped a note
to my employer, stating that I was not
well, and that I hoped to be able to go to
work at the commencement of the following
week, but when the time came do you think
I was able? Ho * I had less energy then
than ever. If 1 thought about my work
it distressed me, for I knew that my
vitality had wasted away to such an extent
that I was powerless to perform it. My
condition fluctuated a little, as some days I
fancied I was slightly better, and that I
would start next Monday, but when the
day came I could not get up steam. Occa-
sionally I did a little about the house,
and then I was so prostrated with ex-
haustion that I had to go to bed for three
or lour days. This went on for three
months, by which time you may be sure I
was very downhearted.”
Reporter : “ Were you away from work
all that time ? ”
Mr. Hack : “ Every day of it, and if
everything did not go straight I became
exceedingly irritable. The least tiling ex-
cited me, and as I could do nothing but
brood over the helplessness of my condi-
tion the unhappiness of my life can be
easily understood. I resorted to medicines,
but what good were they to me ? None at
all. First one kind and then another I tried,
till I gave them up in despair. I then
visited a hospital, but the medicines dis-
pensed to me from that institution were
of no more assistance than if I had never
seen them. Those disappointments made
me more low-spirited than ever, and at
last my mind was harassed by the awful
conviction that I would never .get strong
again. My body was drained of all its
vital force, and there were no means of
replenishing it, because the medicines did
not help me, my appetite had turned
traitor altogether Some days I fancied
1 could relish something nice, but when I
got it I could not eat. At other meals I
was more successful in taking a little food,
but when it was down then the-misery
began. My stomach filled with wind and
made me very uncomfortable, while the
feeling of heaviness in my chest was almost
unbearable. The shoulders were also the
seat of much trouble, as between them
there came a pain which was very dis-
agreeable ; and as for aches—well, those
across the small of my back were so acute
that they depressed me with their intensity.
Life wjs getting more bitter and more un-
desirable every day, as up to that time I
used to keep a diary and take great
interest in most matters, but now all happi-
ness was gone, and I, could not apply my
mind to anything. My head ached to dis-
traction, so no wonder I was suffering
from loss of memory. There was a dull,
misty feeling about my eyes as if they had
swollen, but, rightly or wrongly, I put that
down to having so many sleepless nights.
The coating on my tongue and the bitter
taste in my mouth were most disagreeable,
though perhaps not such a serious matter
as having my nervous system in such a
shattered condition. Noises set my nerves
shaking at once, while even the conversa-
tion of people was annoying, so I had no
desire to mix in company. My brain was
so unsettled that one minute I would make
up my mind to do a thing and the next
minute I could see no necessity for it ;
but, losing weight and strength so rapidly,
caused more anxiety than anything else,
especially as nothing could check my infir-
mities.'’
Reporter : “ But you are not an invalid
now ? ”
Mr. Hack : “Thank Heaven, I am not 1
I am also grateful to Clements Tonic, for it
was the only medicine which restored my
lost energy. I was anxious to get better,
and did not care what I tried, but I can
safely say that Clements Tonic did me an
immense amount of good from the start.
Its invigorating effects shed a brightness
over my gloomy surroundings, and gave me
hope when everything seemed lost. From the
first couple of bottles of Clements Tonic my
appetite improved greatly, and what pleased
me more still was to observe that the same
medicine was putting my digestive organs
in good working order. Before taking
Clements Tonic I remember one morning in
particular getting up as usual, and shortly
afterwards I fell senseless on the floor
through experiencing violent and over-
powering pains in the stomach ; but a few
weeks’ use of Clements Tonic drove all
pains and flatulence away, and about my
chest and shoulders the freedom from tor-
ture was equally marked. So distinctly
did Clements Tonic strengthen my worn-out
system that I felt its beneficial influence
with each dose, my nerves in the meantime
getting as steady and true as they had ever
been. To know that I was no longer a
slave to an incurable complaint was a fact
which Clements Tonic alone could set at
rest, for my headaches and backaches simply
drifted away, and in course of time there
was not an ache in any part of me.”
Reporter: “Were you sleeping better,
too ?”
Mr. Hack: “ That was one of the prin-
cipal features of Clements Tonic. It made
me sleep splendidly, and its toning effect on
my brain was so grand that I did not
dream at nights, and I have not since been
inconvenienced with a bad memory. The
flesh I had lost was regained, and nobody
could have been more thankful than I was
at again being able to go back to work with
the cheerful mind and vigorous body which
nothing but Clements Tonic could restore.”
“ Reporter: “ Can yourstatements appear
in the press ? ”
Mr. Hack: “You can publish them as
you please, because Clements Tonic made a
thoroughly healthy man of me, and to all
delicate people its true worth should ba
male known.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Charles William Hack, of 2S Eveleigh-street,
Redfern, in the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare
that I have carefully read the annexed dooument,
consisting of four folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to four, and that it contains and is a true
and faithful account of my illness and cure by
Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements which I
give voluntarily, without receiving any payment;
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1500.
Subscribed ind declared at Redfern, this twel
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and t\
before me,
T. D. P. HOLDEN, J.F
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Moran b
His ’Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1
• 1
Post
Frtt.
Y By FRANK RENAR. Y Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
THEBUSH WORKER
FOR
am
-Gu/c
H SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
A a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barooo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
*i:o
«*»
JjJOTICE TO M»E4,BOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Ttlephont No. 101*3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
gST" BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. ~WH
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM!.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DEBILITATED
WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
vr trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, m.r.c.s.. Ent..
129 Collins-st., Melbourne.
RUPTURE
thraw away
year Xrcua.
CURED withodi
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
I SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S.,ENS.,
129 COLLINS STREET,
M ELBOU RN E.
RESCUED from DF^INK
By a new discovery, odorless
and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food.
It does its work so silently and
surely that while the devoted
, wife, sister or daughter looks on
the drunkard is reclaimed even
against his will and without his
knowledge or co-operation.
Miss Edith WILLIAMS, who
cured her father after years of
misery, wretchedness and almost
unbearable suffering, says:—“ I
* Shall be so glad if you publish my
experience, for it will reach
many others and let them know
about the wonderful EUCRA SY.
I will do all I can to help any
Send name and
Buffering sister who will write me."
address to THE
Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney,
and they will send you Booklet and particulars FKE&
The Australian Sailorman’s Book—
E. J. BRADY’S
“Che Ways of many ttlatm.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
js. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
Refreshing and Agreeable.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TOILET SOAP.
sIpSKSSSSS
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
ws
*
* •>
%
*
■MORRISS*
IMPERIAL
.EYE,
H
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head-aches & all Nerve
Pains remored by BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a speclflo for Tooth ache It has no equal. I have
osed It successfully for yeara,"—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE'S WORSOELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache
Dyapepaia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ao’.
Of all Storks.
Rupture
Free Cure.
Wonderful Home Treatment That Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. S. Rice (Dept. 268), 8 & 9, Stonecutter
Street, London, E.C., has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, danger, operation, or
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. To
avoid all questions of doubt, he sends free to every
MR. JOHN "'WESLEY.
sufferer a free trial of his method, and there can be
no earthly reason why anyone, rich or poor, should
not avail themselves of this generous offer. As an
instance of this remarkable method, the cure oi
Mr. John Wesley, Castle Lachlan, Inverary, Argyle,
is a welcome intelligence. Mr. Wesley is » we _ ! *
preserved and highly respected gentleman, 72 years
of age. After a short use of the Rice method l tne
rupture healed entirely. To-day he’s soundLt!
a bell. If you know anyone ruptured you shorn
tell them of this wonderful method, which ww
be sent for triad free of all costs.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchus
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
apflijxcm
a trial of SO daya before
payment, which s '™
explained in our “ELKO-
TKIC ERA.” Our Eiectns
Belts will cure all
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, ho«e «
caused, and reB^° r ?. h
wearer to robust healtn.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can to
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we *
written, guarantee * ,
each Electric Belt
will permanently cure you. If it exactly
promptly return the full amount paid,
what we say, and do precisely what we P * u gen d
NOTICE.-Before purchasing:, we prefer*" A K iving
for our Electrio Era and Price List (p gfiXESi
illustrations of different apphances o
also Testimony which will convince the most seep
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Ki.i7ark-.th Street, SYDNEY*
ALL CHEMISTS
£
PPF'KENS,
Al %
at 3ye per sox
Anemia,
Poverty of Bloop
and Weakness.,.
from Whatever Cause-


W B
SPECIALISE in but one direction, i.e., the
EQUIPMENT OF OFFICES
an UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM.
on
No Business can
succeed without
METHOD.
This METHOD
we supply*
WABASH
EXPANSION
Business
Systems.
Letter Files.
Document Files
Card Index
Systems
For all
Businesses.
Write for
Catalogue.
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australasia.
AN EDUCATION
IS PROVIDED by the American
School of Correspondence,
at Armour Institute of Tech-
nology, Chicago, who conduct
Engineering Tuition by corres-
pondence, and aim to extend, at small cost, a valuable
technical education to the great wage-earning classes
everywhere. The courses are especially practical,
and are adapted to the needs of working people who
are willing and anxious to advance. Electrical,
Steam, Mechanical, Civil and Sanitary Engineering,
Drawing, Mathematics, Architecture, and Textile
Manufacturing, Mining. Catalogue “ B,” describing
Courses, Methods and Terms, sent on request to
r N FERGUSON, Electrical Engineer (Manager
Australia), P.O. Box 629, Sydney, N.S.W.
Hypnotism
Header, why not lie »Me to l3BB tl>®
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism von can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
[gratify your ambitions, and produce
(amusement by the hour It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
fust issued in book form a mammoth
l illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
I the mysteries and Becrets
lof the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the Kind
ever published. For a short
time I wi.l send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps! to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
aJife-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
1 exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165 Collins street, Melbourne.
mm±t
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
"VEGETABLE
Charcoal
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, <fec. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark in monogram,'on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
TvEAR SIR,—I have been cured of weakness and De-
‘ J bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and w> II
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers,
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
Pitt street, Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
55., P. 0.0. or stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Certnany
THEBALLET^IEL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic H story.
Post Free, 1s
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frse, is#
tend stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
BOX 913| Q.P.O.f BYDNIV.
Skin-Tortured Babies
AND TIRED MOTHERS
Find Comfort in Guticura
Instant Relief and refreshing sleep for Skin-tortured Babies and
rest for Tired Mothers in warm baths with Cuticura Soap, an
gentle anointings with CtmcußA Ointment, the skin curt > and
purest of emollients, to be followed in severe oases by mild doses of
Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the blood, ibis is
the purest, sweetest, most speedy, permanent, and
ment for torturing, disfiguring, itching, burning, M S.
crusted and pimply humours, eczemas, rashes, irritations, ana
itching s, wtth kJtf hair, of infants and children, yet compounded.
MILLIONS USE GUTICURA SOAP
purifying, and ®\?”VefeSenZ’, is to be compared with
foreign or domestic toilet soap, a^d nurS ery. Thus it combines
in ONE n SoAp P at rI ONE 3 Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the
best toilet and best baby soap in the world.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
toiled liquid CimcußA KreoLiTlKT a, well a,l »th«t‘tood purifier, and humour
cures Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Cuticcra Remedies are sold throughout the worldc2S?
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: fi Rue de la Faix, rans. ronaa
Cobp., Sole Props., Boston, U. 8. A.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength f ° e r s X' T°
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886 has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
„„„ * snfferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seels, the Trwtli, it costa KTotliiiis -
All communications strictly confidential. Address
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
UMBRA CINO
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 30 Chromoa. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter 'Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappiio, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post ■
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illns. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
~~ 4 By using: CABE>B ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieve* instantly, eventually Cute*. 4*. 6d. large bottle,
Posted to any State, s*.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
USES
Insecticide
i % 1/.
ALE,
INSECTS
K.lls
•o-
C
Y*
At lON
IBew/w
%l l^ USES
y GOUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout tho
Australian Colonies.
ASTHMACURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES I
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIM AULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
iHn
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. ' Endorsed by Physicians.
. Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr Kicord’s Essence of Life restores Health ana Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame. _
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & 00., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales -
F. H. Fauldlng & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
flTTfe
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
DEAF
HUE
Addresa—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne


HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
RANDY
Hennessy’B
Hold the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth
of
Genuine Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
:lril
mm.
m
»m§
ifi
iirii
IlS'i
II
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co-,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GEO ROE MARE, Secretary.
TisitofS to tlve Old CottfttfV
SOUTH KENSINGTON
HOTEL
QueenV fi Terr6.ce,LoncLor\,S.’W!
CONSIDERABLY
ENL A R GED—NO TED
FOR ITS COMFORT
& CONVENIENCE
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
'HOTELS IN
LONDON
HANDS UP FOR
y
%
M
HOTEL
IHETROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applies
tion to The Manager.
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
‘PLUM’
r^fENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
* like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind ot
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specialty made for this Razor, 7s. 6(L
“RAZOLES” LICHTNINC RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
f Single Razor, in strong- Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, ll*.
I Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful owe, 331.
Prick
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of thb World.
fy Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheqrfts.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEIM, 680 George-st., Sydney,
TRADE FOX MARK
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
ONLY OF THE WORD FOX
which is a guarantee of soundness of material and qualify of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges & Tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience . .
FOX’S PURE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market All FOX’S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the back —
FOX
PURE I NDIGO
and without this stamp are not genuine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS & Co., Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOMERSET, England.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture.
WILLS’ S
MIXTURE
(Registered.)
Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two grades—Medium and Full.
Price, 1s per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0. 1210.
SATURDAY, APRIL 25, 1903.
Price 6d.
A GREAT CATCH, or DRAWING CLOSER THOSE SILKEN BONDS.
THE RECENT INVESTITURE OF TITLES BY THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL OF AUSTRALIA.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.” ‘
Printed and Published by Wiltjam Macleop, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER. 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Err Annum £1 n n
UaV-ycarly u 16 0
Quarterly ... ••• ••• v '
Kor ice.
Hu sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six'Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, inhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all conti i-
buttons submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tim Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or icash, of sufficient
merit and. interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
i.e.. any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Lndgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Ilout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.- Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
ffxT^xxllejfo/i.
SATURDAY, APRIL 25, 1903.
“Empire Day.”
Premier Barton was gravely disappointing
in his reply to the foolish deputation which
asked him, the other day, to have an
“Empire Day” proclaimed as a public
holiday in Australia. The request might
have evoked from a politician, with no claims
to statesmanship but only to a little plain
common-sense, a very decided negative ;
from a man claiming to be a statesman it
should have drawn a scathing satire upon all
such flummery, especially when suggested
with so bad a motive. But Mr. Barton
did not conceal his approval of the proposal;
he was almost enthusiastic as to its merits.
True, he did not take up a firm attitude and
promise to establish the holiday. But then
Mr. Barton rarely does take up a firm atti-
tude nowadays on any matter which does not
affect his own personal comfort. Provided
that his political position is not threatened,
nr the meal hours unconscionably delayed,
Mr. Barton’s attitude is usually one of
placid serenity, and his disposition is to
be easy-going and non-committal. He is
content to allow his splendid abilities
to lie dormant; his magnificent capacity
for work to rust in disuse ; and his enthu-
siasm for Australia to be smothered by
the cozening flatteries and worthless gauds
of Downing-street. Australians might have
reasonably expected from him, on the oc-
casion of this silly request of silly people, a
flash of common sense, if not of Australian
nationalism. Mr. Barton, however, gave a
lazy acquiescence to the idea of an Empire
Day in Australia, and, if any reliance is to
be put upon his promises of industrious
effort, the absurd proposal will in time come
into effect.
• • * *
The setting-up of another public holiday in
Australia for any cause whatever is in itself
objectionable. There are already quite
enough holidays in Australia, possibly too
many in view of the serious financial
problems which will very shortly have to be
faced. The need is rather for a day of extra
hard work to clear up some of the long-
neglected tasks and to clear off some of the
loiTg neglected debts, than for another
excuse to take a day off to lean up against a
wall. And to suggest a holiday for the pur-
pose of instituting processions, and making
exposure of oratorical diseases, and dressing in
liveries, uniforms, star-spangled regalia, and
other trappings of slavishness and of vanity,
is from all points of view a most pestilent
idea. That instinct in man which urges him
to seek to become a K.C.M.G., and a
Mason, and wear a gaudy apron ; or to be a
Royal Dejected Cat, or a United Gladsome
Buffalo, and deck himself out in robes,
skirts, frills and petticoats ; that instinct
which suggests to him to walk in procession
with a great blaring noise fore, and a great
glaring banner aft ; which leads him to
consort with his fellow man in public
halls for the purpose of exchanging
meaningless signs, winks, passwords,
and inanities of flowery speech, is of all
instincts the most mentally degraded
and the nearest to the painted and be-
feathered mumbo-jumbo worshippers of the
Central African swamps. To deliberately
encourage such an instinct by setting up
another special holiday for its display and its
gratification would be to deliberately push
back the intellectual development and the
growth of reason in the people, and to decoy
them wilfully on a path of garish folly lead-
ing back to savagery. The desire for
feathers, red-ochre markings, tinsel decora-
tions, processions, and pow-wows marks the
aboriginal instinct in man, the elimination
of which is civilisation ; and it is that desire
which an “ Empire Day ” celebration would
chiefly serve.
• * • •
A further holiday of any sort being in the
present circumstances of Australia unneces-
sary and undesirable, and a holiday for the
display of feathers and flummery being under
any circumstances impolitic and mischievous,
Mr. Barton had ample opportunity to give
a vigorous refusal to the deputation which
asked for an “ Empire Day ” without involv-
ing himself in any suspicion of loyalty to
Australia and disloyalty to King Edward
and Mr. Chamberlain. He might have
founded his negative on economic grounds
alone. Or he might with gentle irony have
pointed out that when chests are narrow it
is well to try to develop them, not cover
them with sashes and bullion ornaments ;
that where men are weak in individuality,
they should seek to strengthen their minds
rather than form societies for leaning up
against one another; that national self-respect
and self-knowledge, and therefore national
progress, are only to be won by the progress
and the elevation of the essential man, not
by any wearing of gaudy trappings, walking
in gaudy processions, mouthing of gaudy
rhetoric, or any other setting up of a
standard of ornament in place of one of solid
worth. Mr. Barton’s hearers would not
have understood any of these parables, and
he might have gone home, after such a
polite refusal, and pondered over the ques-
tion of how much better and greater a man
he had been made by his “Sir” .and his
G.C.M.G.
• • * *
But had Mr. Barton been Australian
Premier in deed as well as in name, he
would not have dallied long with the lighter
questions raised by the deputation. He
would have stripped them off to come
down to the naked issue : Should Australia
celebrate “the Empire” and Imperialism
with any glad holiday 1 Should a free,
democratic-aspiring people rejoice in the idea
of becoming part of an Imperial system
built upon the ruins of freedom with the
bones of patriot victims ; make festival over
the subjection of India and Ireland and
Africa, and the future possible subjection of
Australia ? Imperialism, understandable
enough in the days of Charlemagne when
the murder of a people’s freedom could be
ascribed to the Divine inspiration of a ruler,
is in these days of rationalism, of democracy,
of political philosophy, an absurd anachron-
ism. It has been well defined as a system
in which nations, trespassing beyond the limits of facile
assimilation, transform the wholesome stimulative rivalry
of varied national types into the cut-throat struggle of
competing empires. ... A depraved choice of national
life, imposed by self-seehing interests, which appeal to
the lusts of quantitative acquisitiveness and of forceful
domination surviving in a nation from early centuries of
animal struggle for existence. Its adoption as a policy
implies a deliberate renunciation of that cultivation of
the higher inner qualities which, for a nation as for an
individual, constitute the ascendancy of reason over brute
impulse.
Its necessary doctrine is aggression ; its
necessary accompaniment militarism. It is
a combative ideal of national life. It main-
tains it to be the business of a nation not to
develop its own life and its own industries
and its own intellect, but to expand its terri-
tory, to take up the burden of governing
other peoples, to conquer and to enslave.
Democracy becomes impossible with Im-
perialism, because the nation which sets up
a military caste to destroy the liberties of
other peoples cannot reasonably suppose
that its OAvn freedom will be safe. Im-
perialism is, in short, utterly opposed to any
sane idea of Australianism. Our part in it
could be only that of a subject, or semi-
subject people, called upon to participate in
the wickedness and the loss, without any
real share in the gain.
* * • •
Mr. Barton, if he permits himself to
think on the subject, probably recognises all
this, and fidelity to his position as Australian
Premier should have made him speak in
some such fashion to point out the folly of
Australia indulging in any “Imperial”
enthusiasm. He might also have shown how
unnatural and absurd it is to expect that
Australia should aspire to give up a share of
its own government to far-away England ;
how specially dangerous modern Im-
perialism is, with its practical control by
predatory capitalists, men promoting wars
as they would promote companies for the
sake of money-making ; how English Im-
perialism is frankly and openly an aspiration
for absolute English ascendancy of the
Empire, the English King being King only.
in England, “Emperor” elsewhere; how
despicable and cruel are the means which
must inevitably be adopted by an aggressive
Empire. But Mr. Barton did none of these
things He expressed to the Empire Day
deputation his sympathy with Imperialism,
and promised that some day he would grant
them their holiday —their holiday to cele-
brate in a savage fashion a savage idea. How
thoroughly Mr. Barton is effacing the
record of his past services to Australia 1
The Great Absentee Mendicant.
The position of the Salvation Army —the great
absentee holy mendicant of Australasia -has just
been brought prominently before the public by a
speech from its Australian head, “Commissioner
M'Kie. This gentleman, at “a great Congress
meeting” held in a tent erected in Hyde Bark,
Sydney (the See Government, following its usual
cowardly plan of cringing to every and any
sectarian interest, allowed this trespass, on a
public park), made a suggestion of astounding im-
pudence :
I have lately gone over the drought-stricken portions
of New South Wales and Queensland, as far north as
Charters Towers, seeing nothing but barren country, with
dead or dying stock. It has grieved me more than I can
tell. There are more unemployed than is usual at this
time of year, of both men and women, and I fear there
will be 'a good deal of suffering in consequence in the
approaching winter. Of course, we shall continue as we
have done —seek to relieve it up to the limit of our capa-
city. If we are to do more, we must get more supplies
from somewhere. We already maintain nearly 60 institu-
tions, with a nightly accommodation for about 3000
persons. The secret of our ability to maintain them is
the practical knowledge, good sense, and ready devotion
of the officers and people who are in charge of these
works of mercy. They disregard self in their endeavors
to benefit others. If there were any large measure of
relief to be administered, the Army could undertake it
at a less cost, and with more satisfaction, probably, than
any other agency', as they have the necessary machinery
in operation.
» * * *
This hint that the Drought Relief Fund should
be entrusted for distribution to the Salvation
Army sweating organisation comes opportunely
with the publication of details as to the treatment
by the French law courts and Government of the
“Convent of the Good Shepherd, Nancy.”
The judgment of the Court of Appeal at Nancy in the
case of Mile. Lecoanet against the Bon Pasteur nuns was
delivered yesterday. The defendants are condemned to
10,000 francs damage and costs. The clauses read in
court censure the community- for the grave material and
moral prejudice caused by their malpractices under the
fraudulent guise of Christian charity. The judgment
will be a salutary' lesson to other so-called charitable
institutions amassing enormous capital by sweating
and half-starving the objects of their sham benevolence,
and Mgr. Turin az, the Bishop of Nancy, deserves the
highest praise for his courageous action, notwithstanding
the high influences at the command of the offending
sisters.
Subsequently the French Government sup-
pressed this sweating convent (the offence, it will
be recollected, was injuring the health of the
inmate, Lecoanet, by sweating). Not only was
it punished for its past offences, but the best
possible care was taken that those offences should
not be repeated. That indicates the method
which should be adopted in dealing with the
Salvation Army. As a sweating institution
it should be absolutely suppressed, allowing it to
remain, if it chooses, as a religious organisation,
but taking away its license as a public mendicant
and enforcing to the full all factories, shops and
lodging-houses legislation in regard to its institu-
tions.
• * • •
The Salvation Army is not the only religious
organisation which indulges in sweating in Aus-
tralia. But it is far and away the greatest
offender. Other bodies do a little sweating in the
holy name of charity as a side line; with the
Salvation Army it is the whole religion—the
“saving” of the hard-up derelict so that he
or she may be employed, for nothing a week
and poor food and a vermin-haunted bed, to
slave for Booth, the great absentee sweater and
mendicant. The “Army,” therefore, deserves
first consideration; and it would probably be
found that legislation for the suppression of
its sweating practices would also crush out any
weak little imitations of the Booths’ tactics
which Anglicans, Roman Catholics, Presbyterians
or other religious sects have ventured upon.
There is no form of religious sweating which the
Booth organisation doe 3 not undertake. It cap-
tures the weak, harmless, rabbit-brained enthusi-
asts of the community, gives them a gory uniform,
a yell and a big drum, and employs them working
16 hours a day at cadging, for a pittance which
means bare living expenses. It lassoos the
“fallen woman” and shuts her up for as long
as it can keep her, to /work long hours at the
wash-tub for nothing a week and a diet of scrap
food and epileptic prayer-meetings. It hunts up
the released prisoner, and gets a stretch of work
out of him for practically nothing but his food.
Most pathetic of all, it ensnares the poor derelict
“unemployed” —the weak-willed man who has
gone down through drink, or through want of any
hustling power —and grinds his bones for the
glory and the profit of Booth. All the while it
collects—collects from the State Treasury on the
ground that it is rescuing people from crime;
collects at the street corners on the ground that
it provides an entertainment of corybantic
religion; collects from misguided charitable
people on the plea of its relief work; collects
from people who despise and loathe its ways,
but give it broken victuals and old clothes and
stray coppers because it is such a sturdy, persistent
mendicant, and because its misguided rabbit-
brained, retreating-chin collectors are so patheti-
cally in earnest. All the while, too, it works in
competition with outside labor. From its fac-
tories, wood-yards, laundries, farms, comes a
stream of cheap goods to compete in the market
with the product of labor not enslaved to the
Army, and this stream, as it runs, wrecks many
an honest little private enterprise and forces the
workers therein among the unemployed—to pro-
vide fresh victims for the “rescue” work of the
Armv.
• * * •
To add to the economic damage, the Salvation
Army is, as regards the destination of its profits,
an absentee institution. The money ground
out of the unfortunate unemployed of Australia
goes to General Booth in London. The Army is
thus even worse in an economic sense than a local
sweater. The man or company that grinds doivn
the poor and scatters their dust locally may be on
the same low moral plane as this Succubus-like
institution, but as a matter of mere community
profit and loss he is preferable, for he at least
spends his ill-gotten gains in the country. But
the unhappy victims of Salvation Army sweating
—the pathetic officers who cadge so pertinaciously
in the bad cause, the “fallen” who get down to
the depth of a Salvation Army laundry, the un-
employed who are the victims of its methods, the
derelicts w-ho patronise its doss-houses and soup-
kitchens—cannot even hope to get back, some
day iu the round of distribution, au atom of the
profits they have made for the Army. The pro-
fits are mopped up by the absentee Booth ; from
him, as from Sheol, there is no redemption.’
* • • .
To suppress the Salvation Army as a religious
institution would not be exactly advisable. It j g
true that its methods are repulsively savage and
indecorous to the average mind ; but an essential
part of freedom of religious belief is freedom of
religious method. It is impossible to grant one
without the other, without permitting to the Roman
Catholic _his ornate and sensuous ritual which to
the Calvinist is idolatrous, to the Calvinist his ma-
terial-hell and predestination fulminations which
to most people are revoltingly savage and cruel
to the Salvation Army man Ins big drum and his
horn out of tune and his curious saltatory exercises
But whilst allowing to the Salvation Army fuli
freedom for its religious beliefs and observances
in the public interest its street processions and
street mendicancy should be stopped ; its factories
laundries, workshops, doss-houses and restaurants
should be rigorously inspected and rigidly
refused the right to work over long hours to
under-pay, to keep vermin-haunted premises or
to sell unfit food. Also, the export of money to
Booth should be stopped just as was the export
of money to the inventor of the “Spanish
swindle.” Nothing less can be demanded in
the interests of the public, nothing more is needed
to put an end to the scandals associated with
Salvation Armyism. As an employer, the Army
is a soulless sweater ; as a distributer of charity it
is a brutal and unfeeling martinet; as an economic
institution it is a cause rather than a cure of un-
employment ; as a capitalist it is an absentee.
Those facts sum up the case against the Booth
institution and provide the amplest reason for
putting an end to it in its business and mendicant
capacity.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lest the Next Loan Shouldn’t Float.
Within the last few weeks various parts of A«*
tralia have been urged by various papers :
(1) Not to persist with “ socialistic legislation es
should impair our borrowing powers. f .. .
(2) Not to return a Labor member or a support d
See Government at Tamworth (N.S.W.), lest it
alarm the English investor. _ of
(3) Not to push the conflict between the two H
the Victorian Parliament to a definite settlement, ,
should hinder the renewal of the Victorian loan,
falls due at the end of this Year. . :..
(4) To throw out the Lewis Ministry in Tasman ~
The Bitter Cry of the Unborn.
The A.N.A. is a great Association, but seems to
be badly off for Prophets. Bruce Smith was in-
vited to deliver an address on Municipal Govern-
ment before the A.N.A. delegates in session
assembled. Here follows an extract from his
address:
The two chief principles that should be kept in mind
in t he art of government were the protection of the in-
dividual and the property he had earned or won. These
principles were often transgressed, especially the latter.
How would they operate in a municipality? Take the
case of a creche. Such an institution, established at the
expense of the whole of the taxpayers to take the care of
the babies of the improvident classes, was a violation of
the elementary principles of government. The provident
man was limited in his aspirations for a family, while the
improvident classes bred apace.
Prophets in these days are scarce—
Hear the Prophet of the Purse,
Gaze on him, O universe !
Buttoned, brushed, with shining shirt
Prim, pragmatical, and pert,
Bruce Smith —woodenly alert.
Full of shreds of phrases brought
From the Lumber Room of Thought-
Full of wisdom —full of Naught.
Mister Smith no problem awes ;
He would deal with the First Cause
By municipal by-laws.
And he says, without a sigh,
When he hears the children cry—
“ Let the little paupers lie !
“They have neither land nor lith.
They have feckless kin and kith,
Let them go,” says Mister Smith.
“We who are the Provident,
We who on the Earth were sent
To build homes and gather rent—
“ Why should we be taxed to keep
Kids whose genesis is cheap—
Worms upon a midden-heap?
“ We who are too Provident,
We who are with less content —
Gallically continent —
“ Shall we still be troubled with
Paupers without pelf or pith ?
See us smile,” said Mister Smith.
“ I would have the workers breed
Workers still to serve our need—
Just enough ; that is my creed.”
There is neither night nor morn
In the Land of the Unborn,
Where Bruce Smith is held in scorn.
There is neither sun nor moon,
Starry night, gold afternoon,
In that vast confused cocoon.
And the shapes unborn go by,
Crying with a bitter cry ;
“ Let us live, ye who must die ! ”
“ In the world wherein you dwell,
Somehow, someway, we can tell
Life with you goes very well.
“ Here we linger, here we halt;
You have all the wine and malt,
All the savor and the salt.
“ Many a golden Guinevere,
Many a yet unborn Shakspeare,
And a million Smiths are here.
“ All we want beneath the sky
Is to simply occupy
Bruce Smith’s houses—and then die.
Spectacle of tragic mirth,
Smith—of all the Smiths on earth—
Warder at the Gate of Birth !
CREEVE ROE.


order to inspire confidence in the English money-lender.
(5) To return the Lewis Ministry, in order to re-assure
the English money-lender.
(6) Not to enforce the Aliens Restriction Act, lest the
English money-lender should be alienated.
(7) To do something really energetic in Queensland,
NSW. Victoria and Tasmania for the abolition of the
deficits’, lest our securities should be further depreciated
in Enpfl&nd.
(8) To induce alleged Senator Retd, who haa been in
had trouble with the Customs, to resign, in order to
create a good impression on the London money-market.
(9) To elect none but good, solid, reliable Tories at the
coming Federal elections in order to remove any doubts
about our solvency which may exist in English financial
C 'no) S Not to enforce the mining regulations in Wes-
tralia and Victoria lest English financial circles should
become alarmed.
(11) To say as little as possible about our present
financial condition lest the facts should raise doubts in
England and prejudice the next loan.
(12) In short, not to sneeze too violently lest English
financial circles should hear the explosion and fancy it is
our credit bursting up.
Truly the borrowing disease has brought us to
such a servile pass that Australia has to go about
in its stockinged feet lest the noise of its boots
should create alarm in English financial circles.
♦
A Humorom Harpy.
There is a certain humor in the exalted impu-
dence of that Somers Vine syndicate which
tried to work a “grab ” in New Guinea by back-
stair methods, was discovered in the nick of time
and shooed off the premises, and which has since
clamored at the front door and whined at the back
door of Australia for “compensation.” The
simple facts of the matter are that a little band of
concession-seekers wanted to snatch a large area
in New Guinea for practically nothing. New
Guinea at the time was governed in a curious sort
of way, partly as a Crown Colony, partly as
a dependency of the States of Queensland,
N.S.W. and Victoria, which paid the cost of its
administration. The agreement was that in
all minor matters of government, the New
Guinea administrator should either act for
himself or rely for advice upon the Govern-
ment of Queensland: important matters were
to be considered by the Governments of the
three States. The concession-seekers probably
recognised that they had not a shadow of a
chance of getting the three States to approve
of their proposed grab, and so carried on negotia-
tions with the New Guinea administrator; and
while some members of the Queensland Ministry
seem to have heard of the matter others had no
idea of what was happening on the back stairs.
As for the Governments of N.S.W. and Victoria
the matter wasn’t even breathed to them. The
Colonial Office in London, which was evidently in
full sympathy with the grab, approved of the con-
cession—which was just as illegal as it would be for
3omers Vine’s junior clerk to profess to grant
all Somers Vine’s property to Dan O’Connor
without Somers Vine’s knowledge—and cheerfully
ignored the fact that N.S.W. and Victoria hadn’t
been consulted. But when the people really re-
sponsible for the government of New Guinea heard
the facts, which they only did through a casual item
of news leaking through from New Guinea, such a
storm of protest was raised that the illegally-
obtained concession had to be cancelled.. Since
then the syndicate has claimed compensation, and
as recently as March of this year one of the syn-
dicators wrote :
If I could have my way in the matter—l admit I can-
not—l would call the syndicate together and wipe the
whole business out of existence, with a strong resolution
directing public attention to the perfidy of the Govern-
ments concerned. I doubt if the annals of British colonial
government disclose a more disgraceful repudiation of a
solemn agreement or a more shocking breach of good
faith by the then rulers of the responsible colonies.
Which fine, large, generous indignation recalls,
somehow, to The Bulletin that, when the claim
for compensation in this matter was first made, it
suggested to it the claim of the indignant burglar
for loss of time and depreciation of burgling plant
whilst vainly endeavoring to break into a safe.
And with the lapse of all these months it still
suggests that, and nothing more.
“A Well-Known Banker.”
Melbourne Age, in its rage at Victoria’s new
income-tax arrangements, lately sentout emissaries
to interview the fat and sluggish non-producers of
the land, and collect their depressed opinions on
the matter. And their opinions, it is needless to
say, were that any legislation that imposes any
burdens whatever on the stout gentleman who sits
non-productively in an office is utterly reprehen-
sible. There were two columns of opinions, but
the following is as good a sample as any :
“ People are thoroughly discouraged,” remarked a
well-known banker. “ There is no enterprise, no go, no
push ; they have no heart to hit out in any new under-
taking. This condition is partly produced by the bad
times, and the drought has had something to do with it,
but bad legislation and over-taxation are largely.respon-
sible for it. There is no doubt that money is being
withdrawn from Victoria in consequence of the trend of
legislation. Australia can absorb money like a sponge
that is to say, we have a lot of land awaiting develop-
ment, and any amount of money could be spent on im-
provements on it. If we drive money away by over-
taxation, we cannot develop our property and we cannot
employ labor. I think this country has too much legis-
lation. People are pouring into America, whereas here
the foreigner is discouraged. How can you expect a
country to go ahead which is losing its population just
because some people have taken up a fad that Australia
is to be for Australians, that no one else is to share in our
prosperity, although, unfortunately, there is not much
to share at the present time ? They welcome newcomers
in America, recognising that every man who is a worker
is a source of wealth, and that the more that come the
more the prosperity of the country is increased.”
It is unfortunately true that Australia (and ev£ry
other country) can absorb borrowed money like
a sponge.” Every country that is foolish enough
to get into debt without any regard for the future,
and which can borrow the money, can absorb it
when it comes, and the non-productive person in
the office makes commissions and percentages out
of it in transit. There is no doubt that \ ictona
alone could absorb £500,000,000 easily enough, and
have nothing but a burster! boom to show for it,
and be more spongy than ever when the business
was over. Any well-known banker could know
that much without an effort, seeing that eve U
Victorian bank save one broke down in 1893
through absorbing money like a sponge, and being
unable to repay it when it was wanted. And by
that smash the banking class dragged Australia s
credit in the gutter, and gave it a shock from
which it has never since recovered. Apart from
this, however, the Age’s well-known banker is a
fair sample of his narrow-minded, unscrupulous,
morally-diseased tribe. His theory that the
United States welcomes a wholesale influx of
population is a common enough lie among the
Tory section of the community, though as a matter
of fact, the U.S. Immigration Restriction laws
are far more severe than those of Australia.
If the Age’s banker doesn’t know that, then
the shareholders should seriously consider whether
it is safe to leave such a horribly ignorant person
in charge of their affairs; and if he does know
it and is simply a liar, then they should further
consider srbethe r^,, eh an individual can be trusted
with the cash. The really pathetic feature about
the Age’s banker, however, and about all the
other opinions it publishes from non-producers
who sit in offices, is the assumption that Australia
is quite helpless and done and dead-broke if the
influx of debt leaves off; that it can’t hope to have
any money or any vigor or any enterprise of its
own; that it not only can never hope to repay
what it owes, but that it must go down with a
pitiful slump if for a year or so it doesn’t accumu-
late new debts with quite the old-time velocity ;
and that the Australian can’t possibly contrive to
pay enough taxes to keep himself square, but must
double up like a wet rag if asked to pay a much
smaller amount per head (Government and local
taxation all counted) than the Englishman gives
with hardly a murmur. The lie about Australia’s
loss of population may be passed by as a small
matter; it did lose by emigration in various past
years—notably the years when a lot of ignorant
and incompetent bankers brought about the great
downfall—but at present it is gaining. Perhaps
if it had the 100 per cent, tariff and the rigid laws
for the State inspection of banks and the sup-
pression of ignorant and fraudulent bankers that
the United States has, it would gain a lot more,
just as the United States does. The immigration
lie doesn’t really matter much. Also the ghastly
cheek involved in the spectacle of the class whose
gross mismanagement brought about the great
downfall from which Australia has never recovered
presuming to offer advice to anybody, is only a
passing circumstance. But what the non-pro-
ducer in the city office should be hanged
for is his constant preaching of the doctrine
of debt, helplessness, incapacity and cowardice
—his wail about our alleged inability to
pay the taxes required to keep the public accounts
square ; our alleged inability to do anything with-
out borrowing the money from abroad ; our alleged
inability to exist without getting deeper in debt
every year to the person who lends us the “influx
of foreign capital.” As a public enemy the plague
doesn’t begin to compare with “well-known
bankers ” of the Age type.
■ ♦
Tasmania’s Unbuilt G.W. Railway.
Years and years ago Tasmania gave a concession
to Private Enterprise to build a Great Western
Railway on the land-grant principle. It was
never built, because the promoters didn’t try to
build it ; the only thing they did try, so far as
the public could see, was to sell their concession
for about £250,000 profit in London. The time
allowed for the commencement of the work
expired, and the concession was renewed more
than once. At one time, when it had run out and
the syndicate had no concession or legal rights or
claims whatsoever to sell, it nearly sold the thing
it hadn’t got. Premier Braddon cabled that the
thing had expired, but promised a renewal as soon
as Parliament met, but of course the sale fell
through, and Braddon was abused like a
pickpocket for honestly explaining the posi-
tion. Then there was some more renewal,
and still Private Enterprise did nothing.
The concession was varied, altered, patched
and amended ; and the syndicate demanded
that the Government should either lend it the
money or guarantee the interest on its borrowings ;
but the railway itself continued unbuilt. Now,
at long last, Tasmania feels tired. Also the con-
cession has expired again. -And the syndicate has
the ineffable cheek to cable out at this juncture
that it expects shortly to raise the necessary
funds in New York, blandly ignoring the fact
that all its legal rights are a thing of the past.
Also it talks of defending its position at law.
And if Tasmania, after granting all manner of
concessions and renewals, decides to stand by
the letter of the last agreement and be fooled no
longer, the Propsting Government will doubtless
be denounced in London as a thief, fraud, swind-
ler, bankrupt, perjurer, and repudiator—in fact,
all the tactics of the New Guinea land syndicate
sharks and the Maoriland Midland Railway
boodlers will start all over again. And if Tas-
mania meekly renews the concession it will,
probably, still get no railway, and still be
besieged by the wretched syndicate of lies,
failures, disappointments and broken promises,
demanding more concessions.
«
The Cheek of Bull.
Premier James talks back at the English co.’s
which sent a long petition to the VVestralian
Government showing how the State might be run
in the interests of the Boulder belt: —
In Westralia there exists a firm conviction that
nothing has caused such harm to this State as the method
adopted by its mining companies ; the exorbitant de-
mands of their promoters ; the excessive over-capitalisa-
tion ; the sacrifice of the mines to the exigencies of the
market; and the unlimited use of those companies as
mere pawns in the game of market-rigging.
But he need not have stopped at that. He might
have proceeded to say that in the past three
months the (mostly foreign) mining co.’s had torn
out of the soil of Westralia £2,150,752 worth of
gold, and had returned only £33,802 in duty-tax
to the State, and he might have put it to them
that that was an utterly foolish and inadequate
return to make. He might have added that up to
the end of March the Westralian public estate
was the poorer by £39,829,678 worth of gold
rooted out of it; yet Westralia, instead of having
any part of this put away for a cold and rainy
season, had, on the contrary, contracted public
debts amounting to £15,000,000, mostly for works
undertaken for the benefit of these foreign com-
pany-mongers. Also he might have put it to
Geo. P. Doolette, the chief representative of J.
Bull in this matter, as a man and an (alleged)
brother, whether he thought it a fair thing that a
State whose stores of wealth have been drawn upon
at the rate of £205 per head of its people, should on
top of that be saddled, mostly for the benefit of Bull
companies, with a debt which had grown from
£3o‘per head in 1891 to .£72 per head in 1902.
And the same G. P. Doolette might be asked
whether, in his private capacity, he would be
willing to give away five sovereigns in order
to get an unpaid bill for £l. Then he might
be led gently into figures and asked to reckon
it up and see if it wasn’t a disreputable fact
that, in the past three months, the companies’
tax came to under fourpence for every pound’s
worth of gold dug out of the State and carted
from it ; and finally he might be told with
emphasis that he ought to be ashamed of him-
self, and that things were going to be different in
the future.
♦
The Maoriland Land Assessment
Principle.
One of a whole magazine of questions with which
Tasmanian candidates were bombarded at the
recent elections was—“ Are you in favor of the
Maoriland of self-assessment ? ” And they
all said they were—all, anyway, but one or two.
Probably a good many of them didn’t know what
the Maoriland system of self-assessment was, and
therefore said “ Yes ” on general principles. The
men who did not know usually proceeded to
point out that their belief in the idea proved
what thorough-paced Liberals they were. But
now, the excitement of the contest over, even
the Toriest of them needn’t be alarmed con-
cerning their avowal ; for the thing of which,
in their heat or their ignorance, they approved is
not half so terrible as it looks. Certainly it does
provide that the State may take over a property
at a slight advance upon the price at which the
owner has himself valued it for land-tax purposes ;
and in theory it is therefore supposed that no
owner will dare to undervalue his property.. But
in practice, the position is just the same as it used
to be under an easy-going State Minister of Cus-
toms ; if the under-valuation or other form of
tax-dodgery got through, well and good ; if it
didn’t—well, the gun wasn’t loaded, and
nobody was hurt. All that was necessary was
to call on the Minister, furnish an explanation
(which nobody believed), and pay the shortage. A
landowner may shamelessly undervalue his acres,
and not lose a minute’s sleep in consequence. The
gun can only be loaded by placing at the command
of the Treasurer a fund with which he can buy up
the under-valued property ; his right of purchase,
if he hasn’t a copper to purchase with, is a very
empty gun indeed. And as the average Treasurer
never has any money, and the landowner knows
it, the said landowner can smile pleasantly at the
Act and under-value just as usual. Once load the
gun, however, by building up a fund out of which
estates may be purchased, and then hold that fund
sacred to that purpose, and this self-assessment
will become a really serious thing. It will not be
fooled with any more, except at the very great
risk of a bad accident. Certainly this involves
the unpopular idea of saving up money, of earning
and collecting a little more than is spent; but if
a start were honestly made with the fund, it
might, on its own account, easily bring in enough
extra land-tax to keep itself going, merely by
putting the fear of death in the fraudulent land-
owner. And, anyhow, self-assessment or not, all
the States might do and are doing a lot more
foolish things than to set a fund like this going,
because sooner or later, and for one purpose or
another, all the States will pretty. certainly have
to buy back land which, in their madder days,
they so recklessly got rid of.
♦
Twenty-four Years of Borrowing’.
The two voices and the dead silence of the
N.S.W. Government grow perplexing. Treasurer
Waddell has stated at Cowra that hard retrench-
ment is essential. Premier See has refused to
state anything. And Works Minister Owe’
Sullivan has added to the confusion by stating
this, which looks like a flat denial of any need for
economy:
I have been charged with expending too much loan
money, but do those who make this charge know
what my predecessors have done in this direction ?
Are they aware that in 1879 no less a sum than £7,352,768
was voted by Parliament at the request of the Parkes-
Robertson Administration ? Are they aware that in 1881
the same Government prevailed on Parliament to pass a
loan bill for public works amounting to no less than
£8,102,000? Will they believe that in 1884 the Stuart
Ministry passed a loan bill for public works amounting to
the enormous sum of £14,388,303? Yet such is a fact, as
the records of my department show. In 1881 the Parkes
Administration passed a loan bill for no less than
£3,065,017, and in 1890 the loan bill for public works for
the same party was no less than £2,620,796.
No doubt, in those days there were men who believed
that the country was going to the dogs. But the country
did not go down. On the contrary, it flourished all the
more for the expenditure. Many new districts were
opened up, and many new sources of wealth were tapped
by means of the railways then constructed. So it will be
with my expenditure on public works. A few years hence
people will laugh at the timorous fears expressed about
it.
The Owe’Sullivan’s figures as regards the loan
expenditure of his predecessors are shamefully in-
correct, but, even if they were wholly true, it is a
disgrace to the allegedly intelligent electors of
N.S.W. that a man whose puerile intellect thinks
such an argument worth advancing should be in
Ministerial office. If the N.S.W. Government
borrowed a large sum in 1879 when the public
debt was £l9 per inhabitant, and nothing broke
as the result of its doing so, it doesn’t follow that
it can borrow a larger sum with equal safety now
when its debt is £53 per inhabitant, any more than
it follows that because a sober man can take a
tumbler of whisky therefore a man who has already
taken tumblers of whisky can take a tumbler of
whisky. And even if N.S.W. was somewhat
riotous in the old days when its unproductive
debt (the debt for which there were no revenue-
yielding assets to show) was about £1 for
every inhabitant, it doesn’t follow that it can riot
equally now when its unproductive debt is £ll
per inhabitant. Away back in the late Seventies
N.S.W. used to have a surplus pretty regularly
without collecting either land-tax or income-tax,
with practically no excise duties, with no stamp
duties, and no probate duties, and a very mild
revenue tariff. Twenty-four years of hard borrow-
ing have left N.S.W. in the condition that it has a
big deficiency regularly, after collecting land-tax,
income-tax, considerable excise duties and stamp
duties, also probate duties that swallow as much
as 10 per cent, of the whole estate if it is a large
one, and with a much larger revenue tariff than it
had in 1879. Therefore the things that N.S.W.
did in 1879 are no criterion of what it can
do in 1903. Though, for that matter, it
didn’t do the wild things in ’79 that Owe-
Sullivan suggests. In that year a very
affluent N.S.W., with little debt on hand, spent
loan money representing about £2 for every inha-
bitant. In the last financial year a very poor and
heavily-indebted N.S.W. spent £3 11s. per inha-
bitant. If N.S.W. in 1879 had put on the taxes
it levies now, it could have built all the public
works it hRS constructed since then without
borrowing anything. It borrowed instead, so it.
has had to put on the same taxes to pay the
interest. The whole record of the great borrowing
era since 1879 has been a record of putting on one
tax after another —stamp duties, probate duties*
beer duties, tobacco duties, income-tax, land-tax,
revenue customs duties —to cover the interest bill;
and with it all there has been increasing poverty,
increasing deficits, increasing failure. And the
only thing Owe’Sullivan can recommend is to
keep on borrowing.
♦
“ Ne’er do-well ” writes on the Queensland Local
Government Act:
I have had 15 years’ experience of Local Government in
Queensland in an official capacity, and it seems to me
that the Act is a good Act deliberately rendered of no
avail by the personnel of the Boards and Councils elected
under its provisions. North and South Brisbane, to start
with, show how utterly bad Local Government can be.
The sole ideas of the majority of men composing these
Councils, appear to be, to find comfortable billets for
their own relatives and hangers-on, and to keep down the
rates. Of the undertaking of important municipal works,
or the proper functions of municipal bodies, they have no
conception whatever. Electric trams and lighting are in
the hands of private enterprise, the very water supply of
the city is in the hands of a separate body.
That curse of Local Government —the election of
members for the sole purpose of keeping down the rates
—flourishes in the bush. I have heard a very slightly
educated, bumptious little Board member, state at a
Board meeting that he was on the Board for the sole
purpose of keeping the rates down, that he was sick of
paying rates, and that he would never consent to the im-
position of any but the minimum.
The sanitary conditions of the townships in divisions
presided over by such Boards is unspeakably horrible—
drinking water obtained from shallow wells in close
proximity to reeking and open cesspits ; backyards
sodden with drainage, littered with decayed vegetables,
fish, meat, fruit, &c., and streets swarming with diseased
aboriginals and more diseased dogs.
Few, if any Boards or Councils assist in any way the
local hospitals, School of Arts, technical colleges, or an} -
institutions for the physical or mental benefit of those
they represent—such matters are quite outside their pro-
vince. They exist, as I have said, solely for the purposes
of keeping the rates down and of providing billets for
needy favorites. No 1 Local Government is beautiful in
theory, but a dismal failure in practice—in Queensland,
anyway.
[Which goes to show that you can give people the
chance of being good by legislation without
making them good—a familiar enough fact. But
it is as well anyhow to give them the chance,
whether they take it or not. —Ed. B.]
“Kiwi,” from Maoriland :
The decision of the Privy Council in the Porirua Trust
case is interesting from many points of view ; but the
moral of it is that Australians have done the right thing
in virtually abolishing the appeal to “the highest
tribunal in the Empire,” and substituting therefor appeal
to their Federal High Court. [But they haven’t. They tried
to, but the British Parliament said “ No.”—Ed. B.J The
facts are briefly as follow : Some 50 years ago the Ngatitoa
tribe of Maoris at Porirua, through the Crown, ceded
certain of their lands to the Anglican church for the pur-
pose of founding a school for Maori children in that
district. To this day no school has been erected
in terms of the trust, and the Solicitor-General,
on behalf of the Crown, sued to have the land res-
tored. The church authorities contended that, as
it had become impossible, on account of the decrease of
the Maori population, to carry out the original trust, the
endowment should be diverted to the maintenance of a
Maori school at Wairarapa. The Court of Appeal unanim-
ously decided in favor of the Crown’s view—that the
trust had failed, and that the church proposal would be
at variance with the intentions of the native donors (for
the Ngatitoas and the VVairarapas have always been
enemies), and would be a fraud on the Maoris. The case
then went to the Privy Council, and that august body
has now decided in favor of the church authori-
ties. Of course, it is not unusual for the decisions
of our Court of Appeal to be reversed by the
Privy Council; but the unusual feature in the'judg-
ment in this case is that it is interspersed with scurrilous
attacks on the Government for “despoiling a charity,”
and on the Solicitor-General and Court of Appeal as being
the willing tools of the Government, Amongst a small
minority of antiquated fossils, whose hatred of Seddon
will carry them to any length, there is rejoicing at the
onslaught; but the effect on the great majoritv of Maori-
landers is to enkindle a feeling of deep and just resent-
ment that an outside judicial bodv should descend
to such an uncalled-for and untruthful attack on
the Executive and courts of this countrv. I cannot
help recalling, however, that, as far as SErnox is con-
cerned, there is not room for unmixed regret ) hen the
Australian delegates were wrestling with Chamberlain,
a couple of years ago, on the question whether the High
Court of Australia should replace the Privy Council,
“ our Dick” went out of his way to declare that the Privy
Council was one of the bulwarks of Imperial unitv, that
no other court inspired such confidence, &c., all of" which
was duly cabled ’ome per Reuter. Now, however, we
have his official press organs vehemently attacking this
precious bulwark of Imperial unity. Personally, lam not
sorry at the insults which the Privy Council has seen fit
to hurl at this country. The people’s virility has been so
completely sapped by crawlsome Jingoism that a few
insults are about the only thing to rekindle the slumber-
ing embers of national self-respect.
The State Premiers, assembled in conference,
have devised a new means of being cantankerous
towards the Australian Government. The situa-
tion is like this :
(1) The Australian Government is to pav the State
Governments for property taken over—customs houses,
post-offices, etc. It hasn’t done this yet, because the
work of valuing all those scattered buildings hasn’t been
completed.
(2) Taking N.S.W. as an example Premier See reckons
that the Australian Government owes that State
£4,000,000. In other words, that it should, about 18
months ago, have assumed £4,000,000 of N.S.W.’s debt in
payment for buildings taken over.
(3) In that case Premier See reckons that the Australian
Government owes N.S.W. the interest on that £4,000,000
for 18 months or so, and he wants it “ recouped.”
(4) And if he gets it “ recouped ” he won’t be a penny
better off. The Australian Government, instead of pay-
ing this £140,000 a year interest, and consequently
handing back to N.S.W. £140,000 a year less surplus, has
handed back to N.S.W. £140,000 a year more surplus and
left N.S. W. to pay the interest.
(6) So if the State Premiers are successful in their
claim for arrears of interest the Australian Government
must first stop enough out of the surplus returned to the
States to pay the arrears of interest, and then hand them
exactly this same sum as arrears of interest—in other
words, instead of handing the State Governments £1 aa
the ordinary surplus customs revenue it must hand them
the same £1 as interest on the value of properties taken
over. And the only satisfaction is that the State Premiers
have the joy of being small, mean and nasty.
»
A Correspondent from Walgett
Management of our artesian bores by the Works Dept,
is disgraceful. From time to time groups of settlers
have induced the Govt, to construct bores for them—a
very laudable work, and good flows have been obtained,
but not the slightest effort has been made to collect the
interest on the cost of construction. The Works Dept,
seems to be too tired or indifferent to draft the regula-
tions setting out the quantity of water each man is to
receive, &c. Yet the Artesian Wells Act was passed in
1897. What an enormous amount of revenue by way of
interest has already been lost, for I am informed that the
Crown has power only to collect from the time the
settlers were assessed ! With the exception of some
revenue from about a dozen bores which have been leased
to single individuals not a penny is being received.
♦
The “first sod’’has been turned in connection
with a second water-supply for Broken Hill and
its mines, for which, as usual, the N.S.W. Govern-
ment is expected to pay. There was a time when
the local mining co.’s were making two millions
profit a year; but even then anyone who sug-
gested that these co.’s ought to return in taxes
enough to provide themselves with a decent water-
supply was frowned upon as a disreputable and
unpatriotic person, who obviously wanted to
hound capital out of the country. And now,
when the mining co.’s don’t make two millions a
year—when, indeed, a good many of them can’t
make anything but calls—the necessary water-
supply has to be provided by cutting off half-
crowns from the wages of the 45-shillings-a-week
public servant. N.S.W. is a great country for
missing its opportunities.
The instinct of esprit de corps, which is as much a
part of human nature as patriotism or love of
freedom, is only what is saving Victoria’s Bext-
managed railways from utter collapse. Although
the men often profess to be indifferent as to how
things go, that spirit which is usually attributed
to the military is deeply rooted in their natures.
Individually, the drivers may feel that they are
quite justified in not caring a hang, but collectively
they don’t want it said that the loco, branch is
the cause of any trouble that may arise.
The traffic officials—guards, station-masters, &c.—
in turn, do their little best on a pinch to save their
branch from the responsibility of failure. The
permanent-way men keep their end up to the best
of their ability (in spite of five days a week), so
that the road may be as safe as possible with the
limited maintenance material and time allowed.
And the same right through the service. So, bad
as things are, the railway system still holds
together somehow. The old, rusted, obsolete loco-
motive, which is only fit for the scrap-heap, is tied
up with string, and shoved somehow or other over
the rotted permanent way and the decayed bridge


| FACILE PRINCEPS. | | SEMPER IDEM. ]
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD I
The Mutual Life Insurance Cc. of New York
Admitted Assets, January 1, 1903, £78,528,000.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Z. 0. RENNIE, General Manager.
THE SILVER LINING”
to the dark clouds of depression which have hung: over N.S.W. for the past decade
partial hreak-up of the drought. “ Adversity is a hard master,” but if the lessons it
taught us are taken to heart, then “ the curse may prove a blessing in disguise.
fear need be felt for the country’s capacity to recoup itself if the people ana CJover
do their part. Australians, if they apply themselves, are equal to any in t n ®
They can hold their own at sport or work. For resourcefulness they are unequ -
Australian Preserved Meats were pronounced the best our soldiers had in ooutn ’
the ROSEWARNE PACKING CO. being specially mentioned. Mr. Mragge sa>s t,nab
for 4or 5 years we shall have an ample rainfall. Let our Government, therefore, p
with irrigation works exclusively, so that when the next drought comes all our * aK , ,
rivers will be full and all our inland river banks covered with a luxuriant gro
lucerne sufficient to keep our stock from starving. , . m,-.
Then the ROSEWARNE PACKING CO. will not only be able to supply the
States with all the Sheep and Ox Tongues and other Meats that they re 3'i l , re ’i ■ n o an d
will again export Australian Meat to the ends’of the earth. Their Potted Meats ,n “
4oz. tins are excellent, and are gradually taking the place of the imported, try
The principal grocers stock them. _
by the tired man who works 15 hours a day, and,
even if it is generally three hours late, it gets
there somehow. The clumsiest and most utterly
pig-headed Minister in Australia hasn’t quite
managed to prevent it getting there somehow, but
it looks as if he would manage that very shortly,
and thus make his work complete.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum "A Woman of Pleasure.”
Criterion..- “ Charley’s Aunt.”
Royal “ Dick Whittington.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Palace “Are You a Mason?”
Belmore Park Fitzgerald Bros.’Circus.
Town Hall Lloyd Concerts.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Midsummer Night’s Dream."
Her Majesty’s “ Paul Jones."
Theatre Royal..'. “ The Prodigal Daughter."
Bijou - .. “ Mistakes Will Happen."
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Wirth’s Grounds.... I wirth Bros.’Circus-Hippodrome.
(Prince s Bridge) /
4
“ Dick Whittington ” and his attached Cat
are enjoying a fair measure of prosperity at
Sydney Royal, but this paper’s belief that it is a
rather worn sort of show, and that the old panto-
mime subjects are about played out, remains as
expressed last week. The fact that pantomime
has stayed so long is itself not a little remarkable.
There are a dozen or so well-trodden panto, sub-
jects still lingering above ground, “Cinderella”
and “ Dick Whittington ” being two of the most
enduring.- Year after year these venerable names
rise again 'in some new aspect, that is so painfully
like the old aspect, and with new gags hung on to
their hoary frames, and an entrenchment of
moderately new jokes built around them; and
they try to look as if the Whittington’s Cat
of this year wasn’t just one more of a centuries-long
drove of catsthathad drifted down the avenueof the
generations, and the sameness of the same old
dashed Cat defies all disguise. The struggle to
put new liquor in the old bottle ought to be aban-
doned. There must be a new bottle somewhere ;
and somewhere in the wide world there must be
some pantomime subjects besides “ Cinderella,”
“ Whittington,” and the other familiar literary
daddocks. For a little while, in the time of
“Matsa”and “Djin-Djin,” there was a praise-
worthy tendency to make a new departure, but it
didn’t last long. Now the cover is taken off the
dish at the dramatic banquet to reveal more Cat.
X X x X t
A second visit to “Are You a Mason 1 ”,
allowing of a closer study of the subordinate parts,
accentuates a first impression as to the general
merit of the oompany. Very good work in minor
parts is done by Lawrence Hanray, as a humorous
old buffer of a farmer, and Herbert Jarman, as a
Poverty-Pointer. A travesty of a down-at-the-
heels tragedian is one of the easiest things to do,
but Mr. Jarman has some specially good touches.
Also, Misses Kingston and Pearson call for some
kindly notice. The play has been received by
crowded houses during the week, and has ap-
parently settled down for a lengthy residence
beside the beautiful harbor which nearly drowned
Treasurer Turner the other day.
X X X X
“ Charley’s Aunt ’’ is bound for a long run
at Sydney Criterion—so at least it is affirmed by
almost everybody. Once get a liking for the old
lady in the impossible cap, and the taste is never
lost. Curiously enough, this comedy of the dis-
guised nobleman in skirts is a mild mania with
geople who see nothing much in “The Private
ecretary ” or other comedies almost on the
same level as that of the Brazilian lady. And
the same people, who sit tiredly while the Rev.
Robert Spalding pursues his goloshes and his bath
bun, are roused to frantic enthusiasm when Frank
Thornton merely mentions what a naughty girl
he was this morning, or smiles ingratiatingly at
his two admirers.
X X X X
The Sydney Lyceum drama still pleases,
in spite of the fact that the ocean waves, which con-
tinually heave beneath the distressed heroine, are
not nearly long enough, and their wooden ends can
be seen an inch or two from the wings. The real
hens in the farmyard, and the live cow which
Ethel Buckley pretends to milk in a gingerly and
half-hearted fashion, are to the fore as usual.
Ada Guildford makes her embarrassing bargain
with the earl in a serene and graceful fashion, so
that one forgets when she rushes that middle-aged
peer into matrimony that she is really the worst
sort of blackmailer. Later, when she flirts with the
Major, the melancholy nobleman informs his small
son in a vague way that the escutcheon of their
family has got its first blot. The drama begins
with a reoital of various sins that the earl
himself committed, but he does not seem to regard
them as blots. The African War scenes are
humorous, and can be recommended to anyone
wanting to know the inner history of the war.
This writer comes away with a vague impression
that no one was to blame for the trouble exoept a
Frenchman called La Renay (unless he is called
De Vere). Everybody sits on this Frenchman,
and it is understood that he is responsible for the
White Flag, and the surrender of Nicholson’s
Nek, and Kruger’s whiskers, and all the other
happenings.
X X X X
Fitzgeralds’ circus maintains its record by
means of some good trapeze work, a cycle whiz,
Herr Pagel, and the dogs. In spite of occasional
threatemngs from the enensv, Herr Pagel con-
tinues to encounter the other King of Beasts
ev@ry evening, and to toss the deposed monarch
about his domain as usual. Mdlle. Oura does not
come up to Caicedo, the old-time wire walker,
whose claim to be a wire-walker was denied by
Borne, because he was hardly ever on the wire,
but leaping in the air some 4ft. above it; but she
j 8 a pleasant-enough feature of the performance,
anyway. The tired ton-weight horse that Pagel
carries np the ladder and all the various other
items, animal and human, continue their former
business.
X X X X
“ E.F." : The trouble with Pagel’s gawky
lion seems to be a lack of discipline in friendliness
with his keeper such as an ordinary performing
lion has been subjected to. When Mrs. Pagel
was rearing the infant animal “on the bottle”
her husband accustomed it to rule of force, but
took little or no pains to get it under moral con-
trol, and so the dazed child grew into a discon-
tented youth, dimly conscious of the fact that
Pagel could no longer toss it in the air with
such a masterful grip as of yore. Increasing
strength made the beast more insurrectionary as
time went on, whereas a properly trained per-
former would have become more philosophical and
docile. Pagel’s hobbledehoy is neither tame nOr
intelligent. Zapf, who trained the well-bred lion
“ Prince ” to ride on the elephant, is“of opinion,
or was, that Pagel’s lion is a fool. In Melbourne
last year Pagel said “ Pooh ! der lion haf no shance
mit me.” His views as to the relative chances of
a man and a lion in a catch-as-catch-can contest
have undergone a violent change. Wonderful
how these strong men underrate the strength and
ignore the superior agility of a lion when talking
fight. The most risky attempt at “ taming ” that
ever I saw or heard of was when Jack Graham
entered a cage containing the three strapping
young lions —“John Burns ” and his two sisters—
which Fitzgerald Bros, bought as cubs from the
Sydney Zoo. Graham’s first interview with those
sprightly growlers, took place at the Alexandra
Theatre, Melb., one morning. It was a private
test show. Nobody could say how the experi-
ment was likely to result. No man had gone into
the cage for eight months, and the last interview
between John Burns and his “ tamer ” —a Captain
Somebody—had ended in a scrimmage, the Captain
getting all the worst of it. Since then Burns and
his sisters had grown to nearly their full size.
Graham slipped into the cage, whilst the Fitz-
geralds and others stood around, armed with red-
hot irons, ready to singe the beasts off the man if
they attacked him. They didn’t attack him.
They merely jumped frantically. Graham stood
in his corner grasping a bludgeon. His instruc-
tions were to preserve a masterly inactivity, and
he preserved it. Soon he got the word to slip out
of the cage leaving Burns and Co. to sober down.
We greeted his exit with cheers, and then I
learned that Jack Graham had been comforting
himself in the cage with the belief that if he were
put to it he could successfully wrestle the lions
singly or all three at once.
* X X *
Unless something disastrous and unex-
pected happened just as this issue was going to
press, Edward Lloyd gave his opening concert at
Sydney Town Hall on Tuesday, just too late for
the event to be noticed. The silvery tenor is
therefore a postponed item so far as Sydney is
concerned. All silvery tenors are hereby urged
to open on Saturday night, or Monday at the
latest, in order that they may be cordially ap-
proved of in this column on the ensuing Thursday.
The great desire of The Bulletin’s life is to give
all possible countenance to every good tenor who
comes along, and it hates to appear neglectful.
X X * *
“ C.C.” reports a little Sydney side-show :
Some sections of various women’s political leagues
crowded into the School of Arts the other evening, and
sat about on the platform steps (when seats gave out) to
hear Dr. Mackellar give his views on the treatment of
State children generally, and to dilate upon his own
Infants’ Life Protection Act in particular. The Doctor
is not very keen about the boarding-out sys-
tem ; he thinks children should enjoy the benefits
of home life and family affection, and evidently believes
that by paying ss. a week they can get it. He also con-
siders that the sight of the State Reformatory boys
in their nice uniforms tends to annoy the respectable
mothers so that they want their children to steal some-
thing in order to be taken up and be as well treated.
But, according to his own argument, the Infant Life
Protection Act will annoy the respectable mother still
more, as by its rules the unmarried mother will have
nothing to do but look after baby for six months (the
Women’s Leagues want to make it nine), and the ordinary
married mother has to do this, and also accomplish a lot
of housework and dress four or five other children, and
do the cooking and washing as well. Still the
respectable woman’s habit of getting annoyed must not
stand in the way of progress. At the end of the
lecture a lady remarked that in iI.L. and S. Aus-
tralia the illegal Infants were less numerous than
elsewhere, and said it might be due to the Franchise.
Another person arose and said that President Roosevelt’s
remarks on the subject were very pertinent; but
Roosevelt makes almost as many remarks as Kaiser Bill,
and it is difficult to tell one remark from another at
times. The Infant Life, etc., is to decrease the number
of illegal births, so its supporters affirm, and with the
illegal births dropping off and the legal ones not in-
creasing, this county will be in a worse state than before.
X X X X
Sydney Tivoli is doing good holiday busi-
ness with precisely the same programme as last
week, so far as personnel is concerned, and with
but little change of items. Seeley and West,
Hill and Sylvainy, and the Yesuvio co. provide
the chief items.
X x X X
At Melbourne Royal the steeplechase
drama is drawing general attention to the re-
appearance of Bland Holt and Co. “The Pro-
digal Daughter,” as previously remarked, is a
well-bred thing by Pettit and Harris, out of
Drury Lane —sound in wind and limb, and an
attractive goer when fully extended. It has brisk
action and a coherent tale, is mounted in a win-
ning style, and seems to be greatly fancied by the
public. Bland Holt, whose opinion is law in
these matters, considers “Prodigal Daughter”
to be about the finest horse-drama he has ever
trained, if not the absolutely fastest that ever
looked through a bridle.
• • • •
The company is a year older than it was
last Easter and 12 months better in some
instances. Bland and Mrs. Holt have not lost
any popularity. Walter Baker needs a little
fining down and bracing up as regards his figure :
otherwise, he is the same hearty, full-blooded
hero as of yore. Miss Harrie Ireland, who plays
the Prodigal, has improved her acting and put
some new frilling on her handsome appearance,
but she still drops her voice at the end
THE LATE MR. CHARLES BRIGHT .
Photo, by Kerry & Co., Sydney.
of a sentence, and makes some of her
remarks as though it didn’t matter whether the
audience heard them or not. Arthur Styan, as
the sporting gent, who administers beans to the
wrong horse, is a strong artist, apart from his
weak knees. Albert Norman is now slender and
satisfactory instead of plump and passable.
Brown, of the raucous voice, continues to rauc
cheerfully, whilst Kemp, Watson, Maxwell, and
others are slowly strengthening their claims to
forgiveness. In fact, they may expect a full
pardon presently for their past sins.. The case of
Miss Ross, the languishing heroine, will be
further considered when she gets another part
wherein she will not feel tempted to languish.
X X * X
“ Ma Mie Rosette,” at Her Majesty’s,
seems to suffer from the comparisons which are
equally odious and inevitable, so the brief revival
of that warm, romantic opera will terminate on
Friday. Melbourne can excuse its Florence
Young for not being a Nellie Stewart, but the
city declines to overlook the shortcomings of
Harold Thorley, whose feet and legs were never
intended for Brownlow’s royal boots. Thorley
has no swagger, no attitudes, no decorative man-
nerisms such as made Brownlow a notable King of
Navarre. On Saturday (25th) “Paul Jones” will
appear in place of “Rosette,” and after Paul has
pirated for a week “ My Lady Molly ” will be
introduced to Australia by Manager Williamson.
* * * *
“Mistakes will Happen,” which should
have been christened “The Giddy Angel,” is
satisfying the demands of a frivolous generation
at Melbourne Bijou. Charles Arnold was not out
in his judgment when he struck this Yankee farce
for the Willoughby Co. It is somewhat original,
and sufficiently slick and humorous —as a rule.
The trouble doesn’t proceed from an illicit oyster
supper, or an overwhelming mother-in-law, or an
aunt who has come to live with the newly-married
couple until further orders. Two authors conspired
together in writing “What will Happen, ” and hav-
ing found one new joke between them they didn’t
work it for more than its full merit. The coach-
house and hay-loft scene, in which the joke comes
to a head, would bear a little more elaboration
than it gets at present. “Screaming ” situations
are ordinarily cut too long, but this would not
drag if it were cut a little longer. Geo. Willough-
by, Tom Cannam and Miss Watts-Phillips
provide the steam power to keep the comedy
moving. Miss Roxy Barton, who scored her
best effort as the serious lady ’tec in “Wrong
Mr. Wright” is sweet where she ought to be
stern, and hard where she ought to be
tender. Miss Bryer gives a genial character
sketch of a landlady, and Geo. Leopold, T.
Leonard, Edwin Lester and Miss Mai thy imlce
themselves useful. Miss Maltby, as the D. ch
servant-giil, has a good many lines to say, and
one of her lines is repeated too often.
• • * •
In a sentimental curtain-raiser, Miss Ethel
Appleton plays a sorrowful young woman with a
sadly-chalked neck, and does it rather sympathe-
tically.
X X x X
There was only a small audience, in the
large Melbourne Town Hall on Easter Monday
night, when Superfluous-Governor Clarke and his
family belongings (including Melba) brought their
belated patronage to the second of the Edward
Lloyd concerts. The vice-regal scorn with which
they glanced at the prevailing emptiness was
emphasised by the tone of their comments as they
dropped into comfortable arm chairs placed im-
mediately in front of the platform. His Ex. mur-
mured “Disheartening!” His Ex.’s wife said
“ Too bad ” whilst the aideykongs backed up her
observation with snorts of approval. Melba said
nothing : but Miss Clarke gave loud tongue to her
feelings. “Disgraceful ! Such a house for such a
man as Lloyd! ” chirped his Ex.’s musical
daughter. The effect of all this upon the loyal
subjects seated (on hard cane chairs) near the
distinguished visitors was to make them feel
ashamed of their inability to expand into a great
multitude, suitable to the occasion. It is discom-
forting for people who do come to a concert to be
twitted, as it were, with the “disgracefulness” of
the absentees. And, after all, the explanation
of that poor attendance was quite simple.
Melbourne in general knew little about Edward
Lloyd and had not asked him to come and sing
at prices ranging from 7s. 6d. to half-a-crown.
The Clarkes from England knew all about
Lloyd, and were present as invited guests of the
management, so they didn’t view the matter with
ordinary Melbourne eyes. The famous tenor had
a slight cold that night. His throat is not »
weather-proof as it used to be, and when he cam
to his first encore song he broke down, through*
catch in his throat, and started the Ave Mana &
second time. He is still a great singer ; the vo' &
is stronger, smoother, better trained than the vain!
of Dam, which it now resembles. But the power
to sing mezzo, to witch an audience with a silvers
whisper, is a departed charm. Lloyd, the veteran
has to warble at a high pressure all the time anri
he selects the songs in which he can let himself eo
He has a somewhat grander volume of voire hS'
Phil Newbury, the .him™ •• pop 'g
Newbury, when Melbourne heard him last was
able to do more than Edward Lloyd can do’now
This scribe heard the matchless tenor 20
sing “The Anchor’s Weighed” “Blue Alsatian
Mountains’ and other ballads. Then the soft
music came without an effort. Now the loud
tones ring out astoundingly. A new Llovd net
the old Lloyd. J
xX X x
“ A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” written
by W. Shakespeare, and embellished with scenerv
and effects of which he never dreamed at all is
likely to prove a good business spec, for Geow e
Musgrove. A black frost was freely predicted
for “The Dream” at Melbourne Princess’s but
on the second Saturday night of that risky’ven
ture the house was overcrowded. People don’t
come solely for the purpose of encouraging a
revival of the Bard, although popular reverence
for William is quite as sincere as Earl Tolloller’s
respect for Brains. They have heard “The
Dream ” spoken of as an interesting variety show
and are glad to find it not too full 0 f verse
Beginning with the arrival of a solemn
Athenian duke who resembles Wilson Barrett
the story proceeds to vary its character every 20
minutes or so, and the scene-painter, the pro-
perty-master and the limelight-man are working
at it all the while. In the foreground of a superb
woodland scene, Peter Quince, the convincing
old Athenian carpenter, kicks Snout, the tinker
and finally sits on his carcase to keep him quiet’
which is a brilliantly successful diversion. Poetry
merges into pantomime, and joy reigns around.
Bottom, the weaver, with or without his
ass’s head, has established hirffself a great
favorite. He is rather too extravagant except
in the second act, but the multitude loves him all
the more for that, and if he were to roll down the
steps of the Duke’s throne he would probably get
a further roar of applause. All the ladies actively
engaged in the poetical parts of the play have
confirmed the first night’s impression. Miss
Maud Milton as the Helena who is scorned by
her one boy at the outset, and chased by both
boys later on ; Miss Cynthia Brooke, as the other
spinster, and the fairy Queen and King, all of
them are well placed. They are a quartette of
fine artists in a series of beautiful stage pictures.
** X X
Rudinoff, the new high-toned turn at the
Opera House, is a versatile Polish gentleman in
knee-breeches. He makes pictures while you
wait, and one rugged view of New York Harbor
is performed on a plate which he smokes— i.e.,
soots —before the eyes of his audience, to
show there is no deception. Rudinoff doesn’t
strike everybody a 9 being a phenomenal
trick artist, but his pictures and incidental
patter are bright enough. Then he whistles
in bird fashion. He is a whistling humorist, and
he pipes a flirtation between two nightingales.
After which he sings in a respectable baritone
voice, and shadowgraphs considerably. Judging
from the length of his turn on Saturday (it lasted
40 minutes), Rudinoff has been in the habit of
entertaining a world that demands less ginger
and velocity for its money than is expected of a
“ star turn ” at Rickards’s.
*x X X
The change of bill at Wirth’s Circus has
brought the well-beloved gee-gee into greater pro-
minence without permitting that noble animal to
overshadow the mysterious Howard Bros., who
continue to effect their single-minded purpose in
a couple of long frock-coats. The Hippodrome
programme at Wirth’s twas carried out without
any sort of mishap on Saturday night. Also the
Roman races were run so honestly that the
favorite got beaten in nearly every case.
XX X X
Fred Graham, Rose Musgrove and Co.
have had a big success in “The Messenger Boy,”
at Adelaide Royal, the house where they
made their first real success together. The
“ Boy ” has rather more coherent plot than most
of the “Girls” who went before him. At the
Tivoli, Inaudi continues to answer the problems
put to him by the just and the unjust alike; for
the unjust he frequently has some smart retort
besides one of figures, for his English is improving.
A Floral Fair for the Blind is well into its second
week at the Jubilee Exhibition, where it gathered
in over £lOOO on opening day; its evening
shows have included the Melbourne Liedertafel,
the local Orpheus, and several displays of Living
Whist —claimed to be the first show of the kind
in Australia.
John Norton lias an article in last issue of
Troth on “ Brutal Journalism.”
Milson’s Point wharf (Sydney) seems an
unlucky spot. The latest man to fall in there is
Australian Treasurer Turner. He was fished out
with a damaged rib. Turner, as a man who can
make 2s. 6d. of publio money go further than most
men can make 18 penoe travel, would have beena
huge financial loss if he hadn’t been fished ou •
If Turner were capitalised at £1,000,000 he worn
be cheap.
At one of the numerous drink-functions
at which the State Premiers have been uncorking
their eloquence in Sydney, the humorous Jen >
of S. Aii?., referred to Westralia as ‘‘the sand
dune.” But, anyhow, the “sand dune is Deal-
ing S. Aus. bad at its own alleged game of wheat-
growing. Last year, when the S. Austral
harvest was better than it has been a lot of otner
times, the average yield was only 3b husnei s F
acre, while Westralia’s was 10J bushels, whic
over two bushels better than the yield m even
what S. Australia calls its garden —the south-


TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
STOCK‘D in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. IN DE NTS. —LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Projp. Ltd., 40 Huntbr St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orbnstbin and Koppbl, LfD., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches —Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete 00., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes!
for the Victorian water supply; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOjin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
* • • *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* » * »
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develop, with option of
purchase “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address : “ Option,”
Melbourne •
• • • *
H. Brandon Skertehly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and enquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertehly, 7 Central Chambers, Queen-st., Brisbane.*
• • * *
Assayers throughout Australia will be interested
to hear that Ernest de Beer of Salisbury Building’s
Melbourne, has taken unto himself a partner—Mr. H. B.
Silberberg. The arrival of the new partner, who brings
7 years Kalgoorlie experience into the business, means
that the firm of De Beer, Silberberg and Co., will be in a
position to stock all sorts of laboratory requisites and
assayers’ sundries. At the present time they can supply
from stock plumbago and other crucibles, plumbago
finely ground, microscopes and scientific instruments,
chemical apparata, including full lines of jena and other
glassware.. Royal Berlin porcelains, and so forth. In a
few months there will be nothing that De Beer, Silber-
berg and Co. cannot supply from stock. Test orders are
confidently invited. Special attention is called to
Morgan’s Battersea “ F ” shape plumbago, and salamander
crucibles, also extra special consideration is claimed for
the gasoline furnaces, which are rapidly growing in
popularity. Messrs De Beer, Silberberg and Co., are
direct agents for Schott and |Genossen’s compound, and
the famous “ Durax ” gauge glasses, which, by the way,
have lately been adopted by the Victorian Railways and
the Melbourne Tramway Co.*
• * * *
City Leader, July, 1902, writes re the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited :—“ The Directors
with their characteristic foresight, always place security
before interest. Notwithstanding the difficulty in obtain-
ing remunerative rates the interest rafe has slightly in-
creased as compared with the previous year.”*
« • • •
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements. *
* * * *
The balance-sheet of the Great Southern Con-
sols G.M. Co. (Vic.) for the last half-year shows that the
underground electric haulage plant, which was supplied
and erected about seven months ago by the Austral Otis
Engineering Coy., South Melbourne, sole representatives
of Ganz and Co. Ltd., Budapest, Hungary, has effected a
saving of 60 per cent, in manual labor required to operate
the mine. This excellent result, and the great satisfac-
tion the plant has given, has influenced the directors of
the Berry Consols Extended Company in placing an order
for a §in»lar plant with the same firm. The plant will
consiscof a generating station, three underground loco-
motives, and a complete electric lighting installation.
This order furnishes further evidence of the high esteem
in which Ganz’s apparatus is held in Australia.*
INSIST OH GETTING
ra m
UK
All Grocery an<
uJeel* Ik; eßA\gnb o,
fl^Horefeeper^Lveryujlier^
The Wild Cat Column.
There is a pretty large howl in M.L. against
the State taking over the Bank of N.Z. Some of them
have the notion that Seddon will march along one morn-
ing, and pull down the old sign, and nail up a new one,
and will drive out the old manager and staff at the point
of a pickaxe, and compel the Commander-in-chief to sit
on the steps and see that they don’t go back again. The
fact, of course, is that the State can’t take over the
bank if it won’t be taken over. All that even
Richard Seddon can do is to point out in a
fatherly spirit that the bank owes the State £2,000,000,
that the bill falls due in a few months, and that the
State can’t continue to provide any concern with money
and make nothing out of the transaction ; and finally
Richard may ask what the bank is going to do about it.
If the bank can repay the £2,000,000, Richard will give
a receipt for it and go home ; but if the bank can’t do
without the State now any more than it could when first
it held out its begging paw to the Govt, nine or ten years
ago, then the less hifalutin there is about “ the sacred-
ness of Private Enterprise ’’ the better.
• • • •
Sydney Telegraph lately thr-w another in-
effective brick at the State Bank idea by explaining that
there is no private bank in Australia which stands so
much above all the rest in size that it could be taken over
and made a State Bank. Therefore, the Telegraph
reasoned, a State Bank is impossible. This is painfully
inconclusive. When Victoria and S.A. and Maoriland
started their State Land Banks they didn’t take over
anything at all—just opened alittle office and commenced
business, and they are all pretty large concerns now
Certainly it wouldn’t be advisable to start an ordinary
State Bank in that fashion, for there are already too
many banks, and to add one more would be unwise.
But the State doesn’t need to take over a large and
overwhelming institution, and buy out the existing
shareholders at a huge premium, as the nucleus of a State
Bank. Such a proceeding would be foolishness and ex-
travagance. The State should buy up, consolidate, and
bring back to life some inferior concerns—partly because
it can get them cheaply, partly because their absorption
would remove certain institutions which don’t improve
the credit of this country any too much; and partly because
any Treasurer worth the name would find a real pleasure
in dealing with such a problem. The National Bank
of the Commonwealth would make a very fair beginning
if it started by the acquisition and amalgamation of the
Queensland National, A.J.S., Australian Deposit and
Mortgage, and Land Mortgage Banks. With the
national credit behind it, such an amalgamation would
command as much confidence as would a State Bank
whose nucleus was the largest and soundest concern on
this continent; and with the State business to bring in
profits, and with only one management to pay instead of
four, the new bank could be made an excellent concern in
a very short time. There would be some satisfaction to
the country in seeing these monuments of the mis-
management of Private Enterprise removed from the list
of more or less embarrassed institutions—much more satis-
faction than would be experienced if the State took over,
say, the Bank of N.S.W., which is a nice-looking concern
and doesn’t require repair.
* • • •
Still the profits of the Royal Bank of Aus
tralia (Melb.) go on rising :
Added
to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves, serves.
Mar., 1897 .. £3398 3p.c.=£2250 £ll4B £1,148
Sept., 1897 .. 3625 3„ „ 2250 1375 2,523
Mar., 1898 .. 3865 3 „ „ 2250 1615 4,138
Sept., 1898 .. 4088 3 „ „ 2250 1838 5,976
Mar., 1899 .. 4315 3 „ „ 2250 2065 8,041
Sept., 1899 .. 4624 3„ „ 2250 2374 10,415
Mar., 1900 .. 5843 4 „ „ 3000 2843 13,258
Sept., 1900 .. 6863 4 „ „ 3000 2863 16,121
Mar., 1901 .. 6488 5 „ „ 3750 2738 18,859
Sept., 1901 .. 6700 5„ „ 3750 2950 21,809
Mar., 1902 .. 7061 5 „ „ 3750 3311 25,120
Sept., 1902 .. 7095 5 ~ ~ 3750 3345 28,465
Mar., 1903 .. 7380 6 „ „ 3750 3630 32,095
On shareholders’ funds at the beginning of the half-year
(£150,000 capital and £28,465 reserves) the earnings
were £8 ss. sd. per cent, per annum ; this compares with
other recent earnings as follows :
Sept.,’oo.. £7 6 7 p.c March,’o2 £8 4 sp.c
March,’ol 7 16 3 ~ Sept.,’o2.. 8 2 1
Sept.,’ol.. 718 9 „ March,’o3 8 5 6 „ '
These figures don’t call for much remark ; their own elo-
quence carries them through. The bank’s substantial
progress is further indicated by the following compari-
son
Mar.,1902. Mar., 1903. Increase.
Profits £7,061 £7,380 £319
Note circulation .. 9,393 7,746 £1,647
Increase.
Bills in circulation .. 42,945 50,264 £7,319
Deposits 600,644 690,303 89,659
Advances 576,486 607,428 30,942
State securities held .. 60,000 70,150 10,150
All liquid securities .. 235,321 253,061 17,740
The Royal has thus liquid assets amounting to a very
solid 38 per cent, of its total liabilities to the public.
• • • *
Maoriland, so progressive in most respects,
issues no monthly or quarterly returns of revenue or
expenditure. Now and again, when Parliament is sitting,
a member asks the weight of the cash-box, and a few
days later the Treasurer answers to the nearest cwt. or
so ; or when Parliament isn’t in session, and the figures
are calculated to astonish the natives, a Minister takes
them on tour and gives a free show. Parliament not
being in session just now, the onty intimation of how the
State finished the year on March 31 comes from Gore,
where Premier Seddon made one of his numerous
speeches. The year’s revenue was put at £6,328,500,
which is £275,439 better than it was the year before.
Expenditure figures are not available. Revenue, pre-
sumably, includes the regular annual steal of the sinking
funds. Maoriland is pledged to provide a sinking fund
on some of its early loans, so the Ministry of the Infidel
and the Jew devised the idea of paying tiie sinking fund
out of revenue as usual, but putting enough loan money
into revenue to make up.
* • * *
The Equitable Life Assurance Society, of the
United States
Income, Total Added
less sums Claims. Expenses. Out- to
written off. goings. Funds.
£££ 0 £ £
1896 9,535,204 4,609,086 1,650,621 6,289,707 3,245,497
1897 10,363,675 4,455,378 1,778,534 6,233,912 4,129,763
1898 11,301,446 4,987,464 1,819,464 6,806,928 4,494,518
1899 11,742,265 5,106,596 2,173,613 7,280,209 4,462,056
1900 12,639,530 5,403,717 2,145,201 7,548,918 5,090,612
1901 13,607,221 5,800,186 2,324,663 8,124,849 5,482,372
1902 14,438,370 6,054,346 2,609,330 8,663,676 5,774,694
Since last year the Equitable has seen one of the errors of
its ways, or the error of one of its ways, and now calcu-
lates that it takes 4’86618 dollars to make £l, instead of
4'B dollars as it has calculated hitherto. A matter of
‘06618 of a dollar doesn’t seem to be of much consequence
so long as you keep to single dollars ; but when you get,
as the Equitable has got, to a thousand million dollars,
it amounts to as much as would make the O’Sullivan very
happy for another few months. The change doesn’t very
seriously affect the figures given above, though, of course,
it has reduced all the last line of figures as compared
with all preceding lines ; but it has made a difference of
£931,340 in the accumulated funds at the beginning of the
year. Therefore, instead of the £68,480,879, which the co.
wa3 alleged to possess when it issued its former balance-
sheet, it is now reckoned that itonly possessed £67,480,540.
Still, the new method of calculation reduces the
liabilities (when turned into English money) as well as
the assets. In the end it comes to this : that, instead of
the surplus being now £15,630,728 as it would have been
formerly reckoned, it is £15,418,151. Of course in reality
the society isn’t a ha’penny worse off than it was.
But what a concern, though, it is, even with the million
or so thrown out 1 Its funds at the end of 1902 were
£73,324,234, while the capital and reserves of all the
banks of Australasia amounted then to only £26,001,000.
The Equitable expense-rate for 1902, like most
other expense rates for that year, is rather higher than it
has been lately ;
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
• ’ £l7 12 6 P er cent. 19 °0 • ■ £l6 19 5 >er cent.
1897 .. 17 3 3 „ 1901 .. 17 1
1898 .. 16 2 0 „ 1902 .. 18 1 5
1899 .. 18 10 3 „
There are, however, a good many higher than this, even
among those that don’t do anything like so large a pro-
portion of new business. In fact, this rate always must
be read in conjunction with the new business written, to
be of very much value. By a remarkable coincidence,
earnings per cent, on average funds were the same in
1902 and 1901, being £4 Is. lid. in each year. That is
without taking into account the item of “ gain
in valuation of assets.” In 1901, this gain amounted
to £441,246; in 1902 to £313,427. On account of this
falling-off, the earnings, counting in this valuation gain
with the interest, have been £4 10s. lOd. per cent,
against £4 15s. 6d. in 1901. But, notwithstanding that
there has been a decrease, the gain of £313,427 in 12
months is very fine : and it looks particularly fine in Aus-
tralia, where bonds and other securities haven’t yet
developed- the regular habit of getting more valuable with
age. If the Equitable would only abolish that very
papery asset, “ Deferred instalments on policies when
paid semi-annually or quarterly, £488,417,” there would
be practically nothing to find fault with in its accounts.
V * • m
Even though it is admitted that the city cries
for sanitary and other improvements, Brisbane municipal
council talks “drastic retrenchment" for the coming
year, and even contemplates drifting further into debt.
The alternative of putting up the city rate beyond the
present If d. in the £ of capital value isn’t mentioned.
• * * *
Official figures of the S.A. wheat harvest show
an average of 6 bushels per acre, for the acre reaped, but,
as 683,000 acres were sown and not found worth reaping,
the average comes down to 3'6—which is still a lot better
than N.S.W. and Victoria. Hay was, as last year, just on
a ton to the acre. Prices in both cases being double last
year’s, the farmers in the fairly-moist districts have had
a good time, but those of the Upper North have fre-
quently had no return at all. Total figures for S.A. :
1,746,842 acres under wheat, 6,354,912 bushels reaped.
Hay, 325,789 acres, 308,825 tons. Since 1891 S.A. has had
one wheat crop of nearly 8 bushels ; one just over 6 ; two
between 5 and 6 ; six between 4 and 5 ; one between 3
and 4 ; one of 2J bushels, and in one year (1897) the aver-
age was about It bushels.
• *
For having unwittingly catalogued some wool
that had been offered and withdrawn in another broker’s
catalogue, John Bridge and Co. were last month fined
£5O by the associated buyers and sellers, and were sub-
sequently boycotted by the wool buyers. In the words
of the firm’s manifesto, “no single buyer turned up at our
sale ” —though the fine was paid, and it was explained that
the wool had come to hand in the usual way of business
with nothing to show that it had been offered elsewhere.
Portion of the infringed rule read? : “No lot or portion
thereof shall be offered at auction more than twice. Once
a wool has been shown and catalogued by one broker and
unsold, such unsold wool, or any portion thereof, shall
not go to another broker for public or private sale.”
This agreement may be of considerable benefit to the
brokers, but where do the producers come in ? The latter,
after the wool has been offered and passed a second time,
have no alternative but to ship, no matter how the state
of the local market may change in the meantime. This
is a beautiful example of the roost being ruled by the
middleman.
• • *
The record of the Australasian Sheep Dip
Co. shows that the people who start to build up an
industry in Australia want all the help they can get in
an uncommonly hard battle. The figures available are
not complete, but they are conclusive on that point,
anyhow. The co. has half-yearly balances; but the
funds won’t run to printed sheets yet, and only the
statements for the June-Dee. periods are submitted :
t „„„ Added to Visible
Loss. Dividends. ReaerveSi Deficit.
Dec., 1899 £220 Nil. Nil. £484
Profit.
Dec., 1900 £5B NiL £5B 919
Loss.
Dec., 1901 £ll5 Nil. Nil. 1465
Profit (less
amount
written off)
Dec., 1902 £563 Nil. £563 1453
The dividend column is put in on general principles and
by way of encouragement. The deficit is a very unstable
item up to now, because the co. has decided to gradually
extend its operations to other States and countries ;
and this has involved the purchase of more patent rights,
which has involved more brokerage and formation ex-
penses. (Brokerage and formation expenses are struck
out of the assets in the above statement as being no sort
of a tangible or saleable thing.) A start has, however,
been made by the co. to wipe off this paper item. When
it has disappeared, another will have to be tackled—the
far bigger one of “ Patent rights, £13,500." Patent rights
are a rather unsubstantial item, too, which, in any case,
ought to be written off with as much speed as possible,
because patents don’t live so very many years, and
because inconsiderate persons have the habit of thinking
out better ideas and patenting them. On the co.’s
capital (£15,488), of which £13,000 is apparently repre-
sented by patent rights, a profit of £774 will have to be
shown each half-year to pay a 10 per cent, dividend ; and
to do this, while at the same time providing for bad
debts (which seem to be heavy in this line of business)
and allowing a reasonable sum towards writing off the
paper item of brokerage and formation expenses, and a
further reasonable sum towards writing off the huge
patent rights item, is a pretty large order on present
appearances. Perhaps the preference shareholders would
simplify matters by writing something considerable off
their shares.
* * * •
There is a superstition that, once a Govern-
ment puts a duty on a thing, the price bounds up, and
the people who have to use the thing then have to live
on bread and grease and ride second-class, while the
people who make the thing fare sumptuously and ride
first. And there is a second superstition that, so long as
there isn’t any duty, the people get the thing at about
2d. per ton above the cost of making it in foreign places
by cheap foreign labour, the philanthropic importer
being quite content with the twopence. Yet, before
there was any Australian made sheep-dip in the market—
at least, any in a position to push business—the grazier
had to pay from 15 to 25 per cent, more than he is paying
for the same article to-day. Also, instead of the local
manufacturer waxing fat, he hasn’t had a dividend out
of the concern in five years, and doesn’t look very much
like a person who will get any to speak of for a few years
to come.
• * • •
N.S.W. Arbitration Court has been wrestling
with the tough problem whether extra payment ought to
be made to coal-miners for working with safety lamps.
The Newcastle men claim 3d. per ton, or 9d. per shift,
for using them. They claim this on the ground that the
light isn’t good for their eyes, wherefore they must put
by a trifle against the time when they will probably have
to buy a dog and two yards of string ; also that it isn’t s o
good a light to see with, wherefore they take longer
sorting out the coal.; and that they can’t carry a safety
lamp in their hats, as they do the garden variety of flare
light, wherefore they can’t use both hands freely, and so
can’t break as much coal; and for several other reasons,
among them that in Scotland, where it is alleged by
travellers that the natives don’t bang sixpences without
cause, they pay 6d. a shift as consideration money in gassy
mines. As this issue was going to press the owners were
busy assuring the Court that if they were miners they
would use safety lamps and no other, and they were using
so much eloquence over the matter that, the Court was
seriously thinking of discarding gas and the electric light
and having a safety-lamp installation throughout its
private premises. Eight or ten lawyers were interested
in impressing this view upon the Court; James Curley,
for so long miners’ general secretary at Newcastle, was,
single-handed, holding up the miners’ end, and holding it
up very well.
R.H.T.: B.H. Prop.’s divs. for 1902 were the
lowest in its history. Total, £96,000, or £72,000 less than
in 1901 Quadruples : B.H. Prop, shares, when there
were 16,000 of them in the co., were quoted at £4OB on
Feb. 28, 1888. On March 2,1889, when both new and old
issues were quoted, the former were £3O, the latter £3OO.
* * • *
Broken Hill: The quarterly count of mine-
workmen shows a total of 6625, or an increase of 511 in
the three months. Greatest number of men employed in
recent years was at the end of 1900, when there were
7010 on the pay-sheets. All these figures are exclusive of
about 2400 employed at reduction works on the seaboard.
The British, which has absorbed the greater number of
the increase, is doing very well; the stuff going to the
mill averages about 2300 tons a week, and runs to 18 per
cent, of lead, lloz. silver, and 17 per cent. zinc. The ore
is of a good milling character, and the developments
are satisfactory. There is talk of a more vigorous
policy with regard to South Blocks, to which
manager Mayne, of the South, will probably wholly
transfer his attention. But at present the mine has no
mill, and the co. has hardly any capital left, though it
has a great number of contributing shareholders, who
will presently feel the joy of paying calls. The Austra-
lian (German) Metal Co. has everything ready at its
works to begin the magnetic separation of the metals in
the tailiqgs. Success here means a very great deal
indeed. The plant will work on tailings, which are really
a great deal richer than the crop already taken from the
ore. Generally speaking, Broken Hill concentrates contain
about one-third in value of the metals in the crude ore ;
the tailings carry nearly the whole of the other two-
thirds. The new plant, working a modification of the
process previously in use, will make a zinc product and a
silver-lead product, and will ship both to Europe for final
treatment. The co. has a pile of about 80,000 tons of
purchased stuff to go on with. Meantime, what has
become of the lately much-boomed Delprat zinc process ?
• * • *
St. George, Lake Darlob (W.A.), maintains
phenomenal returns from a rich leader. Two months
ago 12870 z. of gold were won from 24 tons. This has
just been followed by 1087 oz. from 30 tons, making
23740 z. from 54 tons. Mine is located in the vicinity of
the richest alluvial rushes of the early days.
• * • *
Soutn Kalgurli (W.A.) is likely shortly to be
the scene of a new-broom sweeping, but who is to tackle
the job has not yet transpired. At recent meeting,
director Ellis Parker pronounced the treatment plan “ an
unqualified failure.” He has taken a long time to dis-
cover this. Capt. Isles’ recent London trip of four
months’ duration is credited with costing the co. a loss
of £lO,OOO ; £5500 in stores and £4500 in gold. As it is
admitted that the gold was a myth, the quantity won
being overstated by 13000 z., the £4500 loss is also a myth.
As to the loss in stores, that also is illusory. The stores
were used month by month during the three years co.
has been crushing, and their value should have been
added to the cost of treatment of the 70,000 tons treated.
Mine is not looking too well, and monthly returns are
being maintained with difficulty.
e •
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), it now tran-
spires, never recovered any pay ore below the 400 ft.
level. The long years of patient toil and the thousands
of feet of development work below that level were abso-
lutely fruitless and were paid for out of the proceeds of
gold won in the shallow ground. A few odd patches of
this still remain, and, on its being completely gutted out,
the mine will be abandoned. After the final clean up on
the Vosperton property, before the expiry of the option,
that show may likewise be abandoned, as the vendors are
not a happy family, and don’t look like agreeing to any
further extension of option which the co. demands. It
therefore looks as if co. would be wiped off the slate.
• * • •
Queen Margaret South (W.A.) appears to have
suffered from a combination of bad luck and bad manage-
ment. The tributors continue to tear out gold, and since
coming on the.“dab,” have banked something like
IOOOoz. for about a fortnight’s work. As a good deal of
ground still remains to be taken out, the tributors seem
on the highway to fortune. Co. gets 20 per cent, royalty
on all gold won from rich stone, but that is little consola-
tion for losing the other 80 per cent, it might also have
had if it had looked for it.
* * • •
ada H., Laverton (W.A.), has declared simul-
taneously a belated final div. of 3s. a share for last
year, and an interim div. of 2s. a share for current year.
This is a nice little surprise for the happy shareholders.
The vendor’s shares are still unsaleable on ’Change, but
the “Boulder King" has, it is alleged, for some time
been quietly picking them up at his own price from im-
pecunious or dissatisfied holders. The mine is only a
small affair, but as the issued capital of 54,000 shares is in
keeping with this, it may continue fairly substantial divs.
for some time to come. The gold chute does not appear
to be so long in depth as it gave promise of being on the
outcrop.
• • •
Cue G.M. and Exploration Co. (W.A.) owns
two leases in the Great Fingal neighborhood, and may
possibly be more heard of in future. It is a much recon-
structed concern, being successively known as the
Kinsella, Salisbury-Murchison, and Agamemnon. Under
its new title it was recently revivified with a working
capital of £25,000, the nominal capital being £lOO,OOO in
£1 shares. On the different properties held at various
times by the various aliases of the co., some £76,000
has been spent, or squandered, without tangible
result. The main vertical shaft of the present
concern is now taken down from 100 ft. to 200 ft.
An underlay prospecting shaft followed the reef to 118 ft.,
where water put an end to further sinking. A test
crushing taken out at this level for a width of 12ft.
yielded 4400 z. from 470 tons, by amalgamation. A pump
and 10-head battery are on order, and, as usual, good
results are anticipated. Mine is now in charge of Mr.
Hoskings, late of Lady Loch, and, as he has now a prac-
tically virgin property to operate on, instead of having to
try and straighten up a fearful and wonderful jumble of
holes left by his predecessors, he can demonstrate his
real abilities. Anyhow, after five years of abortive
mining on the Greal Fingal, at a total cost, including
£85,000 worth of gold won and £lB,OOO overdraft, of
£168,000, anything may happen. This Oue-Day Dawn
district is now receiving more attention, which it appears
to merit.
• • • *
Great Boulder (W.A.), by cutting the northern
continuation of the Ivanhoe east lode in a diamond drill
bore from Jansen’s shaft at a vertical depth of 1330 ft.,
has revived interest in this part of the field. The lode,
where intersected, is 10ft. wide and worth 27dwt. The
work of testing this lode has been going on in a desultory
manner for the past two or three years, but, though the
lode itself has been located at shallower depths, the
quality has hitherto been quite unpayable, con-
taining chiefly silver, and has given no encourage-
ment for the spending of money. All ore chutes
on the field have hitherto invariably dipped south,,
and this one apparently dipping north is a novel
experience. The lode has been located well inside
the pegs of the 16 acre block No. 102 E., and
within 300 to 400 ft. of Boulder No. l’s southern boundary.
Latter co. may, therefore, still come out on top with its
original property, although so unlucky in locating a new
venue elsewhere. Great Boulder co. is now sinking the
main shaft to 1800 ft., but, as reserves of ore are a long
way ahead of the milling plant, this work is not likely to
be unduly pushed, and may occupy the best part of a
year to complete.
Ivanhoe, Kalgoorlie (W. A.), has finally arranged
to test all its five lodes from the 1600 ft. level of the
Great Boulder by means of a diamond drill. The proving
of these lodes at such a depth, being practically double
that so far reached, should have a very good effect, both
on the Ivanhoe scrip, and on the market generally.
Mine continues to open out satisfactorily at all levels
reached, and scrip looks a very good investment stock
for a long while ahead.
• * * \ *
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), will soon be
among the regular producers. The 10-head mill is now
nearly completed, but there may be some delay in
starting owing to the slowness in getting the poppet-head
gear erected. The mine is well opened up in three levels,
and enough stone is estimated to be in sight to keep mill
fully employed for two or three years. At the lowest
level the reef ranges up to 7ft., and is of high grade. Up
to date mine has produced 25640 z, from 970 tons, and the
estimated value of the tailings will bring up the average
to Zkoz. per ton.
• • • *
The water pipes are being laid through Kal-
goorlie and Boulder, and the goldfields youngster will
very soon now have the joy of turning a water tap.
Already, too, the inevitable attack upon the price begins :
|he mines, which hare been paying VK per thousand
gallons, have got it down to 65., and that is reckoned to
be the lowest at which the scheme can ever pay. Yet
they want to pay less.
• • • •
Associated (W.A.) mine profit for March is
figured out at £4939. Cost of exploration (£2917) is taken
out of this, but not the directors’ mouthful.
* • * •
Gym pie people just now are in an expectant
mood. Two or three prime crushings and two or three
vague promises have given them heart of grace. The
Hamburg reef in the Home Rule threatens something
good. At Charters Towers a long period of boom has
depleted the market, and good shows and others are
suffering a recovery. The demise of Pfeiffer will be a
sorry loss to the Towers, and the market is a chief
mourner.
• • * »
Day Dawn Freehold Consolidated (C.T,) re-
ported likely to shut down. Threatened litigation over
estate of late F. Pfeiffer, who held all the contributing
shares, is the reason.
• • ■ •
The fortune of mining. The Day Dawn School
Reserve Co. (C.T.) spent £40,000 for next to nothing.
After several years’ exemption tributors started, and
their last crushing, 134 tons, yielded 1170 z., which is
more gold than the co. got for its £40,000.
• • • •
Croydon has been celebrating in its own North
Queensland way the strike of a reef formation at 1231 ft.
in its deepest shaft; it is in the Golden Gate, which is
largely owned by Towers people.
* * # *
Vice-chairman Knox, of the Mt. Lyell, who
went to London to put through the amalgamation with
the North Lyell, is finding the job tougher than was
looked for, and nothing definite will probably be
known about the desired deal until early next month.
• • • •
So deadly is the dust in the deep workings of
the Bendigo mines that at Eaglehawk, which is occupied
mostly by miners’ homes and graves, investigations show
that 13-times more men than women die of lung disease.
How to reduce the frightful mortality, and the more
pathetic sickness that comes before death, is the com-
monest crib-time topic. Besides ventilation, an amend-
ment of the Mines Act compelling the use of the jet or
spray in conjunction with the machine-drills would
probably get nearest to meeting the case. That, anyway,
might be tried before, as a last resource, the wearing of
respirators is insisted upon.
During the Jan.-March quarter 31, Maoriland
West Coast dredges raked up lOOoz. or more of gold
apiece, and there were a score whose returns were
less; the total was 81690z.,0ran average of 1930 z. for
each machine at work. Best three months' work was
done by the Mosquito, 6410 z. Last year’s quarterly
average was 75000 z. For all Maoriland the past quarter’s
gold output was worth £450,206, which is £73,507 better
than for the first three months of 1902.
* * * *
Even in M.L. and under Seddon’s strenuous
rule, self-assessment for land-tax purposes proves to be a
very small thing in the way of reform. The Levels
Estate, just purchased for closer settlement, has been
paying on a basis of a small fraction over £2 per acre ;
and yet the State had to give £6 9s. for it.


■■■'' ’•■ ‘ "
“ORIENT” BOOTS.
Special Purchase of American-
made Boots, Black or Brown
Vici Kid,
Price
2lj=
By Post
22/-
George & Barrack Sts.
-^SYDNEY.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath, Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—.
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Society
[?]
[?]
“H.”: The Melbourne movement for a
statue to Queen Victoria is not only dead — it is
buried, decomposed, forgotten; even the location
of its bones can’t be told with any certainty, and
its tombstone has been prigged and put up for a
hitching post against the public house of parties
unknown. It is fully a year now since the com-
mittee abandoned all serious pretence of trying to
get the necessary funds. And this is the second
of the three stages in the freezing of “loyalty.”
Said three stages are these : (1) The public ceases
to supply the tuppence ; (2) The committee ceases
to ask for the tuppence; (3) Both parties forget
that there was ever any tuppence.
* * * *
Said that the whole bill (about £600) for
the defence of the six Frenchmen and women
found guilty (though five of them were afterwards
acquitted) of the Smith’s Mill murder (W.A.), is
being paid by Marie Fontain, who was one of the
six. Marie is the lady who is “going to live a
different sort of life for the future.” It will have
to be a pretty lucky sort of new life that will
enable her to find £6OO at a few days’ notice as the
old life did.
TO TELEPHONE WOULD BE SAFER.
“ Now, you'll have to tell pa.” “Urn — yes — what’s his number? I'll ring him up in the morning."
Pastor Rentoul at Melb. women suffrage
demonstration (Age report) :
Mr. Irvine at the last election was clothed in promises
which he declared would be fulfilled if he remained in
the House. He now appeared before Parliament and the
people garbed only in a singlet—(loud laughter)—a very
short singlet at that—and nothing else but his socks,
(Laughter.) And when anyone said to him, “ You have
not brought back much,” he said, “ No, but I have still
my honor.” (Laughter and cheers.) .
The rev. parson had evidently been studying a
recent Bulletin picture. But Alf. Vincent didn’t
draw any such thing as a short singlet; he gave
Irvine an eminently respectable shirt and collar,
It takes a parson to insist so vigorously on the
brevity of the solitary garment.
* , , ,
Apropos corsetted Australians (8., 18/4/’O3)
and other things. The Govt, auctioneers held, at
Pretoria, on Feb. 6 and 7, a clearing sale by
instructions of the South African Garrison (late
Field Force) canteens. Corsets and hair-nets
figure among the overstock of goods with which
the Field Force pursued the embittered Boer on
his kopjes.
Absolutely the coldest cynic of the year is
the young Adelaide woman who, having swal-
lowed a tumblerful of match-head solution, handed
the glass to her husband and told him to “ Keep
this as a memento.” And she had only had 24
years of life, too.
• • • *
“C.N.”: The swimming damsels of
Brighton (Vic.) may have been too modest to have
any but a Blind Asylum band at their annual
shivoo, but the quality of modesty was not so
strained as to prevent their being extensively
photographed for reproduction in the weekly
journals of Melbourne. There is quite a boom
in feminine swimming in Melbourne, and it is now
considered quite the thing to have one’s portrait
taken with so little on that it may be a coat of
striped paint for ail the difference the casual spec-
tator can detect.
* • • •
Chief Justice Madden’s remarks in a re-
cent breach of promise case made many a
married man smile loudly. In that parti-
cular instance the lady had apparently told the
truth, and the bridegroom-that-wasn’t had claimed
her as his own in spite of the chilling fact that
she didn’t love him. “He knows the thing he is
bargaining for, and that is the thing he has to
take,” said Madden. Was ever such folly guised
in gravity uttered ? He doesn’t even know
whether its hips are pneumatic pads, or other-
wise ; and he doesn’t know how many pockets it
has ; nor whether its teeth are false, its hair dyed,
its chest padded. It might have a shapeless knee
or odd legs. And in spite of this, a fool-Solon
says gravely “ He knows the thing.”
• • • •
Bendigo seems to be the first Australian
city to actually erect a statue of her late
gracious Victoria. Perhaps this is intended as
coals of fire on the head of the Heir Apparent,
who hadn’t time to visit that centre when he drove
through this country, though he managed to
inspect Ballarat and Geelong. Anyhow the
marble figure, sculped by James White, of
Sydney, was unveiled last week by the mayor (no
fancy Governor or Waxcellency) and proved to be
as pleasing a circumstance as the subject would
allow. A polished trachyte disc bears the inscrip-
tion, “Victoria, Queen of Earthly Queens, 1837-
1901,” which is distinctly modest and retiring. It
suggests the old Persian style of “Artaxerxes,
King of Kings.” Ever since Disraeli intruded his
Semitic nOse and his greasy forelock into British
a certain extra-Asiatic garishne§s of style
and whoop has been visible in the manners of the
once sober Anglo-Saxon.
The court procedure in the Auburn
(N.S.W.) murder case, resulting in the discharge
of the jury, was practically the same as that fol-
lowed bv Judge Burton, in Sydney, 60 years ago.
T ■ „ & j .’■ , -*? .
Gne James was under trial for the murder of his
wife, and the principal witness, a man named
Primrose, was found to be so drunk that he could
not speak. The Judge lectured the insensible
object severely in the witness-box and adjourned
the case for a couple of hours, directing a
medical man to treat Primrose in the mean-
time. When recalled to eoyrt, Primrose
was still incapable, and as tRe Judge had
another engagement, he discharged the jury,
When James was next put on trial, he was
found guilty chiefly on the evidence of the then
sober Primrose, and was sentenced to death. The
question of Burton’s power to, discharge the first
jury was fiercely debated, and an appeal was made
to the Full Court. The Full Court was unable to
decide, and referred the matter to Lord Campbell,
then Attorney-General of England. He also
avoided the point, but recommended that James,
owing to the time he had spent in gaol (over a
year) should be released, which was done.
AN OPEN QUESTION.
SLOUCH (from the country): " Newly-married
couple, I bet!"
BOWLER (city): “ Probably never set eyes on each
other till to-day, but you may be right
to-morrow!"
“Robert Hap”: George Collingridge, in
“Fleshpots of Australia” (8., 18/4/’O3), says:
“ The working man . . . in Sydney . . . goes to
a sixpenny restaurant. . . . We can guess what he
gets there.” I’ll bet G.C. a fourpenny dinner he
can’t.
• * • •
N.S. W. Liverpool Asylum came last week
before the notice of the public in the case of an un-
fortunate who, while slowly dying of cancer, strayed
away from the institution and died more suddenly
outside —he was defunct from exposure when
found. Official evidence at the inquest showed
that the boundary fence was not inmate-tight,
and that no one was to be blamed. Admission to
the State Tubercle Farm and Cancer Hospital is
free to all. Escape from it is limited to one
method—a deal box in the undertaker’s spring-
cart. So the ricketty fence is to be straightened
up, and the lives of the inmates prolonged until
the one lawful release comes. One thing: They
have not to wait long as a rule.
• • • •
“J.F.D.”: I stayed once in a health
resort with three clerics of the clean-shaved
variety as fellow-boarders. To while away the
time I took the housemaid on small excursions
down the river. She informed me that the
laundress had never washed either a nightshirt or
pyjamas for either of the three clergymen during
their stay. They had been there five weeks.
The remarks the laundress made
regarding the things she did wash
for them could only be published in
the Watchman or Protestant
Standard.
Another of N.S.W.’s old semi-historical
homes will be brought to the hammer presently—
Vaucluse, the house where William Charles Went-
worth lived in the stormy days about the time
Constitutional Government wasgranted toN.S. W.
The estate was once the residence of Henry Brown
Hayes, an Irish baronet who came out in bond in
1801, having been transported for the abduction
of a wealthy Gork heiress named Pike. There is
a legend that Hayes imported many tons of Irish
bog earth which he entrenched round his cottage
in order to keep away the snakes. Then, when
Hayes went home, pardoned, the estate was sold
to Captain Piper, a naval officer, who in turn sold
to Wentworth.
-Ke the Vi c .
torian Govern-
ment’s regard f or
Mate -supported
lunatics. Some
two years ago the
veteran A.
Samuel], of Met
bourne, gave hi 3
services as a medi-
cal electrician to
•Kew Asylum, and
during his f OUr
months practice
tnere he was very
successful with
some of the f e .
male cases. About
worth of elec-
trical appliances
were a,ll the in.
stitution pro*
vided, and when
-'tr. Saniuell
waited on the
Chief Secretary
to ask for more
he was cold-shouldered on the ground that the
Revenue couldn t afford to spend money in
curing lunatics Whereupon the old gentleman
threw up his honorary position in disgust. It
seems that Mr. Samuell (whose daughter Jo«enh
ine, prepares pupils for the stage),’ took a
particular interest in the case of her noor litn«
friend Flora Graupner. Ho had . *£££s
that if llora were transferred from the Yarra
Bend Asylum to the Kewestablishment and placed
under his care he might improve her condition
But the blessed regulations didn’t provide for the
transfer of a patient from one public asylum to
another in order that she might be treated by an
electropathist. Mr. Samuel was proposing a
“dangerous precedent.”
* * • •
A column in a daily paper by Bishop
Stone-Wigg, of New Guinea, narrating his inter-
view with Edward VII., exposes that pillar of the
church as a person who feels awfully glad whenhe
sees a king. He says : “ There was no formality
no elaborate ceremonial, no stiff court etiquette •
nor any formal presentation or special costume’
nothing but the bare announcement of my name’
as I walked in. A pleasant, elderly gentleman at
once rose, greeted me with outstretched hand and
bade me sit down, putting me at once at my ease.”
Edward VII. should be careful or the kingly mana
will wane. Visitors of a certain sort should
always be allowed to enter on all fours and smite
their heads eight times in the ashes under the
grate. There was a time in the Dimmest of the
Dim Remote when both men and women took off
all their clothes before going in to see a king. The
taking off of the hat is said to be a survival of
this olden ceremonial. In those far dim days,
kings knew how to make the populace sit up, and
then, as now, “ there was no special costume.”
A CHEAP FORTUNE.
DISAPPOINTED LOVER (whose future has just been
clairrogantly described in very dark colors):
“ Well, I do call that woman a fraud.”
SYMPATHETIC FRIEND: "But what could you
expect for a shilling!”
A bushman’s Easter Holiday Easter
Saturday, in Sydney with £6O in his Ppc f'
Tuesday, in the dock of the police-court with W
to his credit (fined ss. for being drunk), i
day, in the same dock with £2O to his credit ( n
10s. for being drunk). Friday, back a g ain C v
£2 to credit (fined 10s. for being drunk). Satur-
day, last appearance, with only 2d. (sent g
for a week for being drunk).
TWO SONGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'Tis a song of fair faces, of glancing bright eyes,
Of loves that we loved before we grew wise ;
"Lis the song that we sang in the morning of bliss,
’Tis a song of fair maidens—the song of a kiss.
’Tis the song that we sing at the close of the day,
When our eyes are grown dim and our hair turneth grey,
'Tis an echo from years that are vanished and fled ;
’Tis the song that we sing when we think of the dead.
J.A.C.
IN GEELONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once, when I was free from Care
(Years ago) with time to spare,
I was staying in Geelong—
City famed in local song.
I had seen Corio Bay,
Seen the gaol, a building gay,
Seen all that there was to see,
Ending with the cemet’ry.
All the sights exhausted were,
And I still had time to spare ;
Therefore from a window I
Watched the funerals go by.
Two by two the horses dyed
Walked along in solemn pride ;
And in stately style and slow
Moved the caravans of woe.
And I saw, a sight not sweet—
Hearses, plumes, along the street
Nodding to a drowsy tune
In the garish afternoon.
To my host I turned and said :
“ This procession of the dead
Seems a comment quaint to me
On your Geelongevity.
“ You informed me, standing here
(We were drinking lager beer),
That the folk here, fools or sage,
Lived unto a green old age ?”
Then that Landlord of Geelong
Smiled like one whose case is strong
“ Sir, the Funerals you see
Are of Visitors,” said he.
CREEVE ROE.


D.C.I
✓ WHISKY
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the mast
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from Georg - street
or King street, Sydney.*
THE BEST IN THE WORLD
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
HIS PLEASANT VICES. ( Scene, Ay[?] Office, Sydney).
GENERAL SERVANT ( after being interrogated by prospective missus): “ Yus, you
might suit me and I might suit you, as you says, but wot are the bad ’atits
of your ’usband?"
“ R.A.K.” on the fashionable baby :
Babies are in fashion 1 So they are, but don’t see how
it’s going to make much difference in the population.
The poor little devils, after a few weeks of Mamma’s
particular attention, are longing to be back in Mary Ann’s
rough but safe clutches again. It’s not only the infant
in arms that’s the fad of the moment, although they are
very numerous, and it’s a sight to see baby and Mamma
draw up in a hansom at a swell photographer’s and the
tender little things nearly decapitated against
the top of the cab, as Mamma gets in and out
with her unaccustomed burden. But the particular
victim is the interesting child of from three to five, just
before it gets gawky, dressed up in some fantastic garb,
more picturesque than useful, with dainty shoes that are
too tight or else, if it’s icy weather, with bare legs and
sandals according to the whim of the moment. I have
seen a kid on frosty days with sandals, with little chil-
blained toes tied up with bits of white rag, and clothes
not starting till nearly half way up the thigh. But the
upper half of her was very smart to make up for it—
a few inches of rich velvet and fur showed
well against the blue, goose-fleshed offspring. So
mamma, having attired the kid according to the rage,
hooks him or her on her arm along with her parcel, hand-
bag, library book, and a thousand jingling things, and
drags him along to do the Block and a few bazaars and
garden fetes. That takes some time, with a few minutes’
chat to each acquaintance met, and the kiddie hops about
wearily on his tired toes until mamma goes into
somewhere for afternoon tea. He then has some tea
and some indigestible dainties. He goes on to a few “At
Homes, more tea, more indigestible dainties, comes
home, dresses for dinner and takes his place by mamma’s
side, and has more indigestible things. Then he goes
with his fond parents to the theatre, where he is given a
box of lollies to keep him quiet, and eventually he goes
to bed for a few hours, and the next day starts de novo.
Unless the fashion changes quickly around to poodles or
monkeys again, the kid of to-day will be shattered in
health, and blasA before he’s six.
• • * •
Two able seamen have been given 12
months in Darlinghurst Gaol for deserting from
men-of-war on the Australian station. One de-
serted in Sydney, the other in Fremantle. Both
were discovered in Melbourne, and brought on to
Sydney, where they were tried by court-martial.
Why should Darlinghurst be burthened with both
of these men—or, indeed, with either? Even the
form of their trial is independent of local civil
law.
* * * *
Let the Philp push, the Brisbane Chamber
of Commerce, and the calico-Jimmy brotherhood
generally, for ever hold their peace anent Kings-
ton’s “harsh” Customs administration. Quite
recently in Brisbane a struggling, poverty-stricken,
widow was fined for not sending her child to
school on the requisite number of days during the
quarter—the shortage, save the mark! was only
half a day. The widow appeared in court with a
baby in her arms, and gave as the reason of her
other child’s school-absence that she had to keep
the one at home to mind the other when she was
out charing during the day. Yet that section of
the community which allowed its indignation at
Kingston, in the Reid case, to boil over and run
down its starched shirt-front on to the footpath
didn’t even notice the real harshness of the Law’s
administration in another direction, when it was
only a lone, worried, husbandless female who was
the victim.
An im-
moral com-
munication
from a place
better left
unspecified:
It was at a
meeting ol a
Women’s Poli-
tical Organisa-
tion that the
declining
birth-rate was
being seriously
considered.
One after an-
other the
speakers arose
and suggested
various reme-
dies. Some
thought a
small bonus on
kids would
bring about
some improve-
men t. An-
other lady
suggested that
the Premier
should borrow
half a million
from the
Savings Bank
and pay the
accouchement
expenses of
people with
less than £156
per annum.
Another
woman, who
evidently
knew some-
thing, sug-
gested that a
day of humilia-
ti o n and
prayer should
be proclaimed.
When appa-
rently every-
o n e had
finished and
the chair-lady
was about to summarise, a plump little woman, with rosy
cheeks and twinkling eyes, arose and said, “I beg your
pardon ! ” The chair-lady subsided with graceful dignity
and a pleasant smile, and the lady with the twinkling
eyes commenced. After she had got fairly going each
particular thin, grey hair started to rise on her listeneis’
heads, and some of them stopped their ears. The plump
little lady declared it was all owing to want of oppor-
tunity'. She affirmed her belief that there were thousands
of men and women who were prepared to populate the
country if they were given the facilities and opportunity,
and said she ranked herself among the number. Her
scheme was simplicity itself. She advocated that Govern-
ment should set aside portions of the Crown land in each
district as State baby-farms. In all cities pleasant
parks should be provided, with plenty of accommodation
therein for wet evenings, and made attractive to lovers,
with plenty of cross hedges of the sort one sees in pic-
tures of what are known as Italian gardens. Any young
woman finding herself about to become a natioft«l bene-
factor to be entitled to comfortable living at the State
baby-farm till the benefaction was complete, when she
could be sent back to her occupation or her friends with
a small gratuity, say £5, in her pocket. The children to
be brought up by the State, and the parents allowed, if
they wished, to contribute to their support, and call and
see them as often as they wished between certain hours
of the day. The lady was so carried away with her idea
that she did not realise for some time that her audience
had melted away, and the sole remaining listener was a
small, badly-dressed man with ferrety eyes and sandy
hair, who was writing shorthand rapidly, and who leered
at her in a disgraceful manner when she suddenly closed
her address.
• • • •
In odd moments Maoriland is wondering
whether it didn’t nearly hang the wrong man a
few years back. It was over what, 15 years ago,
everybody talked of as the Kaiwarra mystery.
A farmer named Hawkins was murdered ; and
the police reckoned that a man named Chemis
was more likely to have done it than anybody else
they could think of, so they arrested Chemis and
started to build the usual tomb of circumstances.
The most conclusive brick they got hold of was a
fragment of a Wellington newspaper of the same
date as part of a newspaper which was found in
Chemis’s house ; and this fragment had been fired
out of the gun which killed Hawkins. Apparently
the jury’s idea was that the Wellington newspaper
had too small a circulation to allow of this
piece of evidence to be dismissed, so they found
Chemis guilty, and he was sentenced to hang.
The Wellington paper which had been used for
the gun-wad felt, however, that the verdict
amounted to a reflection on its circulation, and a
row was made, and Chemis wasn’t hanged. In
fact, after a few years he was released from gaol;
and then he made the mistake of trying to prove
his innocence. Of course he couldn’t—less so than
years before—and when people finally wouldn’t
listen to him any more he went out to a lonely
place and blew off his head. But a man has now
made a statement to the effect that it wasn’t
Chemis who murdered Hawkins at all, but two
respectable and hitherto unsuspected persons,
who 15 years ago used to live in the same neighbor-
hood. And Maoriland isn’t sure, with Chemis
dead and Hawkins dead, and a great many other
people dead besides, whether the whole thing is
worth bothering about.
» * * »
An up-to-date idyll, as narrated by Ben-
digo (Vic.) Independent :
The crowd at the railway station just before the arrival
of the express train last evening was treated to a chapter
in a kind of life romance. The hero and heroine were
both middle-aged. They astonished the crowd by walk-
ing into the vestibule locked in each other’s arms. When
near the bottom of the steps leading to the foot-bridge
the couple stopped, and the wooing was such as to indi-
cate that lost time was being rapidly made up. After
these caresses the heroine tenderly lifted off the hat of
her companion, and, sorrowfully viewing the ravages of
time on his once shiny locks, tearfully asked a question
which was replied to by the man throwing his head on
her shoulder. This continued for several minutes, when
the couple walked along the platform still locked in each
other’s arms. Opposite the stationmaster’s office they
stopped, and the woman began to cry bitterly, despite
the caresses which she was receiving from her lover. All
at once the man released his hold, and walking over to
some spectators asked “ Could you tell me what time the
next Melbourne train goes? I’m not going myself," he
explained, “ but that woman over there is. (She was now
weeping sorrowfully, leaning her head against a truck.)
On learning that the last train for Melbourne had departed
nearly an hour before, the man was surprised, and said,
“ That’s a bit of hard luck.”
“ You seem a bit friendly there,” remarked a bystander.
“ Yes ; bh, yes,” returned the man, “ she thinks a lot of
me. We are old schoolmates, but we had a bit of a tiff
many years ago. I have not seen her since until to-/
night, and we are squaring matters. I knew I would do
it; in fact I was determined to do so even if it cost me a
few quid 1 ”
The recklessness of the Australian lover—deter-
mined that even a few quid should not stand in
the way of his fierce affection !
Two advertisements from the same issue
of a Sydney daily :
TTNEMPLOYED.—Meeting at People’s Hall, Sussex-
st., 2.30. Influential gentlemen will address
you. 0. Von Hagen, chairman.
TTNEMPLOYED Meet 3 p.m. Queen’s Statue.
Definite Recommendations to be Considered.
Roll Up. J. Dwyer, Convener.
Unhappy unemployed! “Influential gentlemen”
the bait on one hook, “definiterecommendations”
on the other, and neither likely to be of the
slightest avail. If they had any business-sense,
the unemployed would charge “influential gentle-
men ” and others wishing to address them £2 an
hour, with a discount for orators wishing to under-
take a three-hours’ speech. At present, the work-
less have their woes much added to by being made
the practice-target of every ambitious Parlia-
mentary aspirant and every crank in want of an
audience. Were they to charge (say £2 per hour
per 100 audience) for listening, it would often
bring in tucker money.
• • « •
The “investiture” of various persons
with K.C.M.G., C.M.G., and other orders, at
Sydney, last week, was hardly up to the dignity
of comic opera; it was broad farce. Messrs.
Barton, Forrest, Lyne and George Reid in “court
dress” (which was one of the features of the show)
constituted, indeed, a matter of such grotesque
humor as could only be appropriately “set” in
the sawdust ring of a circus. These gentlemen,
with their Advance Australia figures and their
bedizened clothes, ambled around with im-
pressive mock dignity, and, to the fanfare of
trumpets, some of them acted as “sponsors”
for John See and other politicians who were
formally branded K.C.M.G. And everybody
looked proud and pleased. There was not,
apparently, in any mind a shadow of the disturb-
ing thought that this K.C.M.G. business, with
which the British Government “honors” Australian
politicians, is never tried on front-rank Britishers.
Gladstone was never a K.C.M.G. ; nor will John
Morley, Arthur Balfour, James Bryce, Herbert
Asquith, or Joseph Chamberlain ever submit
themselves to the cheap affront of knighthood.
Such rubbish is kept for “ colonial ” politicians,
savage chiefs, English suburban mayors, and
other folk whose low degree of intelligence, it is
thought, will lead them to accept it as an “honor.”
* *
Melbourne publicans are overdoing the
free-counter lunch and information business.
They are not only content to supply
for 3d. a pint of beer served up in a
goblet that cost 16s. nett, but throw
in a big instalment of solid re-
freshment, comprising sand-
wiches, stewed cowheel, stuffed
mutton, with tinned
lobster on Fridays,
as well as masses
of sporting and
other alleged
information.
Most Me lb.
city hotel win-
dows are daily
plastered thick
with notices
about horse
races, cricket
matches, bi-
cycle races,
weather
“tips,’’Adams
Sweep results,
as well as lead-
ing N. S. W.
and Vic. sport-
ing newspaper
tips for all
horsey events.
This gives
the adjacent
officerof the
law much
exercise in
“ mo ving
on ” infor-
mation-
seeke rs,
but the
notices don’t
improve busi-
ness to any visible
extent. In fact, very often the paying customer
is crowded out by the person seeking a tip or the
insolvent eater of cowheel.
* i * * •
“ Honi Soit ” asks :
Can any right-minded young person, or even any
crooked-minded old one, explain what there is so verv
shocking about a lady’s neat and well-filled stocking?
The writer never yet saw one of them that he was afraid
to face, but it is evident that there is something about
them which calls for what the holy Herald would term
“ grave censure.” For example, a slander case cropped
up in a Sydney court recently, one lac}y having been
accused of stealing the fair and seemly foot coverings of
another. That wasn’t much to worry over; but I couldn’t
help noticing the cautious manner in which the “ respect-
able portion of the Press ” reported the edge. A modest
morning rag coyly alluded to the stockings as “a portion
of a lady’s clothing.” Another morning “ disseminator of
refined educational matter ” ( vide report on carriage per
rail of daily newspapers) spoke superciliously of the
stocking as “an article of female attire.” A shocked
evening paper vaguely referred to “ somethingshe wore.”
Evidently the Ladies Evangelical Union has not lived in
vain, even though it may have lived in vanity.
* » ' * *
“ L.M.D/’ : Travelled on the Natimuk to
Goroke line (coekspur from Horsham, Victoria),
the other day. A duststorm was blowing at the
time. Myself and a Chinaman were sole passen-
gers booked right through. Train, consisting of
engine, passenger car and van, bumped along till
a woman waving a red flag called a halt. She got
her parcel (121 b. sugar) out of the van, and we
bumped away some more. Then a Chow, with
dust and humility in his eye, loomed m sight,
waving a red flag. He put on two cases of apples
for Goroke. We stopped some more at East
Natimuk, then at Natimuk, Mitie Lake, St.
Mary’s, and then we ran into the scrub near
Spring Hill. In the middle of the scrub she
stopped. The guard got out and went up to the
engine. I inquired the reason of stoppage as he
passed back. “Broke down,” he said, laconi-
cally, and walked away down the line. I went to
the driver, who told me the telegraph station was
four miles away, and the guard had gone to get
another engine. He was letting down the fires.
So the Chow and I fraternised, and chased rabbits
till sundown. Then we went back to the van, and
camped till 10 o’clock, waiting for an engine.
Twelve hours behind time we got to Goroke.
People are startled hereabouts when Washington
Bent’s train turns up to time.
• m * m
One Sydney suburban “progress associa-
tion ” seriously threatens to live up to its name.
It proposes that Parliament shall declare that a
howling dog is a nuisance, and on the written in-
formation of three householders the animal shall
be slain. It is a good idea, but it doesn’t run to
the terminus. The writer hates cats worse than
dogs, and if this anti-dog society has any luck he
is going to form a progress association of his own,
and agitate for an extension of the law. In fact,
there is a vast field for the idea of authorising any
three householders to kill things that don’t agree
with them ; and if Parliament carries the
matter to that “logical conclusion” which it is
always talking about, the writer and two other
highly intelligent and discriminating householders
will fill the harbor with things that ought to be
got rid of, and people who would be better dead.
Dogs, cats, church-bells, tramcars, wild ra .bit
men, the push generally, street preachers, brass
bands, organ-grinders, and girls who pound on
ANOTHER SHERLOCK HOLMES.
1ST PANTOMIME ARTIST: "By Jove , there goes
that little woman in our chorus; she must get
good information.”
2ND P.A. : “How do yer know?”
1ST P.A : “ Why, she's the best-dressed girl I’ve
seen on the lawn to-day!”
the piano,iwill be among the things that will be
dredged out of the vasty deep when the new
association gets going.
IDEAL AND REAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'Tis sweet to roam with you where lurks no sli-me,
- In glades ideal culling dreams for food :
(But sweeter far to hear you call my name
With just a wistful something in your mood).
’Tis glorious to frame .you, goddess, far, st elate,
To whom my flames of song delight to curl :
(But ’tis divine, when, coyly nigh, you ’wait
The hunter who pursues you as a girl).
Sublime that flawless blue, where cold stars shine,
When you are far, and I Devotion’s son :
(But ah ! the warm and rosy flushing wine
When you are here, and willing to be won !)
MELB.
ALCHERINGA.
MY LADY'S GOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Lady’s gown doth glint and gleam
(’Tis some soft, shimm’ring shade of cream)
As with her fair companions gay
A down the room she takes her way,
Where the soft, silvery lamp-rays beam !
In every fold of it, I deem,
A grace doth hide. So neat each seam,
Full well it doth her form display,
My Lady’s gown !
I sit and watch, and then I dream—
As o’er her matchless form doth stream
The pale, soft light—of some fair day,
When none but Love is there to say
What rare and hidden beauties teem
’Neath that fair gown !
ULOOLA.
He who repeats a tale oft-told
' Is not so great a bore
As he who yawns—“ Ah, that is old ;
I’ve heard the yarn before !”
PONTE.


Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lacte, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
7s. 6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne.*
vw the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS
KLEINERT’S HOOKON
"““'Correct Hose Supporter
To Wear with the NEW FORM CORSET
Sold only at the Best Shops.
O
<b
£
C
o
X^
<*y
&
c
6*
e>'»
V'
6?
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WT\V
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
GOOD VALUE!
oxm FAixotja
21/-
Double Bed Blanket
Nothing in the States to come near it
for value.
BEND FOR A PAIR.
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion,"
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
3
w
“graven ettes
Are the Ideal f>\Bßics
FORj \
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 21, 1903.
My Drab Ahini,—
Through the mania of my maternal progenitor
for punctuality I (and the m.p.) were at Govern-
ment House for the Gov.-Gen. and Lady Tenny-
son’s first ball to the Sydney-siders somewhere
about the time the fowls went to bed.. The
function was timed for 9 o’clock, so I was in time
to see the ball-room and its drawing-room continu-
ation empty. I must say I liked it best so, on the
same principle that the interior of a fine church
before the worshippers arrive delights me most.
Lights and roses (roses, roses all the way from the
front door), peacock blue walls —Whistler walls —
and the pure, sleepy red of the carpet —same red as
the blare of a trumpet. Those walls and that car-
pet were caused by the Yorkal visit last year. If
Lady Hopetoun—l believe she chose it —had only
got an Australian wall-paper the room would
have been a light and a guide for our Australian
plutocrats—a dado of waratahs for example. A sad
thing it is that Australian riches go so little to
the encouragement of Australian art. Any local
effort at the applied arts rich Australians simply
ignore. Australian-used chairs are never carved
in Australia, nor are tapestries woven, nor wall-
papers designed, nor silver-ware cut in distinctly
Australian patterns.
A profile portrait in oils of Jate Laureate
Tennyson—evidently his favorite portrait, as its
engraving prefaces his works—stands on the grand
piano in Sydney Govt. House drawing-room. It
shows him with a floppy wide collar and half-
masted cloak, his long, wavy hair mingling with
his beard ; the deep, perpendicular wrinkle in
his cheek ; and in his eye the expression which
ought to have been there when he wrote “ Thou
inadest Life, Thou madest Death, and lo ! Thy
foot is on the skull which Thou hast made.” A
cunning fold of curtain is at the back of the por-
trait and the foliage of a ten-foot palm droops
above it. But the “skulls,” some of them
tiaraed, began to arrive, and thenceforth the
interest was wholly human.
It was a brilliant ball; but one brilliant Govt.
House ball is as like another as one league-long
roller is like its fellow. All the women-some-
bodies who were at the races during the last ten
days of weary A.J.C.-ism, with their heads and
shoulders clothed, came now with those members
uncovered. Lady Tennyson’s innocent face
smiled above a pale heliotrope gown of crepe de
chine , with a posy on the train, and her light
brown hair was brushed plainly below her dia-
mond half-crown. Lady Rawson was a Primrose
dame. Every tenth woman wore a great mass of
flowers or foliage on one shoulder; chrysanthe-
mums are in, and chrysanthemums were there.
_ Mrs. James Mills, of Maoriland, wore a thril-
ling gown. Alternate panels of white satin and
white sequined cobweb. Do you remember in the
Hans Anderson fairy tale the princess who had to
weave a gown of white cat’s whiskers and moon-
beams? Mrs. Mills broke out on one shoulder
into that blinding green—the green of certain
beetles’ wings, which is said to be fashionable. It
makes the individual wither.
Mrs. Henniker Heaton, junr., who, with her
husband, is visiting Australia, and has rented
Mr. Hamilton Dobbie’s “camp” at Rose Bay,
was the most inquired-after identity in the
room, because of her extraordinary display of
jewels. Said that her pearls are 800 years old
(and yet pearls are amongst the least durable
of gems—they catch diseases more easily than
their wearers). The fashion of her tiara, or
whatever the lady would call it, was so uncom-
mon as to cause a lot of stiff necks. Mrs. H. H.
is a tall, fair young woman, said to be the best
amateur miniature painter in or out of the Great
Smoke.
Baby roses are having a great vogue. They
wreathed old heads and young shoulders, but one
of the prettiest frocks in the room was Mrs.
Ernest Watt’s blue chiffon, with its bodice and
hanging sleeves closely sewn with forget-me-nots.
Miss Irene Marks, back from M.L., and still suf-
fering from the effects of her recent accident, held
a numerously attended reception, mostly of
solicitous-looking young men, all on her own, from
the coign of an arm-chair.
Several debutantes, amongst them Lily, a
daughter of State Premier See, the eldest ewe
lamb of Senator O’Connor, and Zelma, a
daughter of Mr. Fred Aaronson. Wonder if a
debutante’s first ball ever comes.up to her expec-
tations ? I know of one who, for years before her
first appearance, used to say that she was sure it
would be just like a ride through space on a
comet’s tail. Well, an hour after she debutted,
she started her first toothache, and her disgusted
family had to take her away and rouse up a
dentist. The incident altered her character ; she
joined some noisy sect, and preached and pranced
against balls.
One of the most curious effects in hairdressing
at the Gov.-General’s ball was wilfully achieved
by three girls (who looked like sisters), by brush-
ing the hair over circular frames covered with blue
chiffon. The color showed through in patches, as
if the hair was too scanty to cover the pad. Late
in the evening Misses Mollison and Munroe, of
the “Are You a Mason” co., arrived at the ball.
Former wore an orange gown with black spots, in-
tended to typify the orange tiger-lilies that grow
so liberally in Ethel’s Canadian country.
Among other-Staters at the ball was the Queens-
land short-storyist Ethel Mills, a fair, little dolly
person.
Button-holes for men must have gone out— -a loss
to the florists. Not a man at Government House,
but Prof. Anderson Stewart, wore onfe. I am
told that “they” (this “they” is what a writer
has called “ something as great and impersonal as
the Fates ”) do not put a flower-hole in the lapels
of evening coats now.
One of the conventional shams of our civilisation
was exhibited last Saturday night at Government
House when the Gov.-Gen. invested certain
Australians with K.C.M.G.’s, C.B.’s, D.S.O.’s
and: so forth. Each candidate had two “sup-
porters,” apparently on the understanding that he
was so overcome with gratitude and emotion that
his legs were liable to give way at any moment;
and the proper procedure was for the trinity, after
the centre-flower had got his bauble, to retreat
backwards. That is to say the supporters should
have retired backwards, carrying between them
an insensible candidate who had fainted through
ecstasy. The Westralian Forrest, and a few
others who had practised in London, maintained
the heel-first crawl, but those who hadn’t butted
round, and gave the group the look of a disorderly
circus, or a Mr. Facing-Both-Ways. You might
have heard a hairpin drop on a carpet when the
‘ ‘ brilliant assemblage ” got a clear back view of
genial John Forrest’s great, well-nourished calves
in white silk stockings, foiled against the black,
lead-pencil-like supports of Speaker Holder.
“When they rose knighted from the kneeling,
Some were pale, as at the passing of a ghost;
Some flushed and others dazed, as one who wakes
Half-olinded by the coming of a light.”
The task of yarding these political pure merinos
and starting them off troika fashion was entrusted
to Mr. George Steward, the Gov.-Geii’s Federal
Secretary (a gentleman suspected of pro-Teutonie
tendencies because he wears a fierce Kaiser
Wilhelm moustache). The Windsor Uniform—
with Reid, Lyne, Barton, and Forrest inside
it !! An admirer looked at Reid, sighed,
and remarked: “Wouldn’t I love to plant
pansies over him ! ” I can’t find out who
designed the Windsor Uniform, but I sus-
pect it was given with the Thunders on
Sinai; only Moses was ashamed of it and said
nuffin’. The Victorian Peacock laughed whilst
knighthood was in flower—a laugh like the sound
of a load of road metal tipped from a cart. Later,
whilst the reception was on, he sneezed, and that
—that was beyond a joke. The people didn’t
laugh, they simply shrank right up, and hoped
the Lord would keep his thumb on the plummer-
block.
At Investiture ceremony, Dame Forrest wore her
Coronation gown of Irish point with some etceteras
of mandarin velvet. Whenever I hear of Irish
point lace I think of that aristocratic but very swift
lady in one of Ouida’s novels who always put on
her Irish point over black velvet when her uncle,
the Archbishop, and his grave wife were coming
to dinner, and so dressed felt quite attuned to
higher things. The Forrest lady’s overdress of
I.p. holds birds and flowers and stars in its
pattern.
First charity ball which the Governor-General
and State Governor will attend this winter will
be that of Fresh Air League on the 19th of May.
St. Vincent’s Hospital people are also getting
ready for their annual dance.
Lord Mayor and Mrs. Hughes’ reception to
meet the Tennysons was not in brightness many
rays behind that of a solar system. They may
both step high over the success of last Monday
night. There was one sad item, and that was the
presence of 13 beautiful slain trees. These had
been cut olose to the ground, and were tied on to
the roof pillars. I sat under one and heard its spirit
wailing at being cut off in the flower of its youth
to decorate a holiday hour for a passing ruler.
Japanese mythology says that the man who need-
lessly cuts down a shade tree is imprisoned for
eternity in the bole of some forest giant and is
terribly racked as it grows. A useful religious
belief that! A long glittering chain, composed
of Tennysons and Rawsons and Hughes and vice-
regal relatives, friends and aides and private secs,
trailed up to a dais, and anyone who wished might
speak with any or every link of the chain. Nigh
a thousand persons were present. Tenor Lloyd
came along and exchanged Great Smoke reminis-
cences with the Governor.
Amongst the brides at recent A.J.C. meet-
ings was Mrs. Fisken, who was Mrs. David
M'Caughey—a well-dowered lady with several
olive branches.
Some folks are acting “Do,” instead of taking
the “Don’t” advice. Reports of 19 marriages
were sent to one Sydney morning daily during the
past five days.
A returned Durbarite—young, unsophisticated,
and a girl—tells this incident, that happened at
one of the ports en route. She strolled on shore
alone, and wandered into a print shop. A half-
breed shop-man received her gladly, and asked
her if she would like to look at some photographs.
She joyfully assented, and he put a pile before her.
One glance at the topmost and she turned and
fled, blushing furiously, back to the ship. Some
hours later she walked past the same shop with
two male fellow-voyagers, when the half-breed
ran out after the party, and, addressing the girl,
entreated her to “comeback and finish looking
at the photographs she saw in the morning.” His
revenge, perhaps, for her non-purchase of pictures.
Then she started stammering to the men about
not having looked at any but the top one, but
they began to talk hurriedly of other matters.
The promised Australian autobiography of Ada
Cambridge (Mrs. Cross) ought to be interesting
reading. Title is “Thirty Years in Australia.”
Mrs. Cross came from Norfolk (Eng.) as a bride,
and her husband’s first charge (he is a minister)
was in the Ned Kelly country. They are now in
Williainstown, Victoria. Like mo3t husbands
with writing wives, Mr. Cross never reads Mrs.
Cross. He misses much, for she is an interesting
writer. The item that the first copy of her books
is always written on slates, scores of slates, may
be interesting to some.
An English weekly has been holding a voting
competition on “Who is the Prettiest Panto-
mime Girl ? ” The poll had not quite closed when
I saw the list, but Ada Reeve came 17th, and
Grace Palotta 26th.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Melba made her final Melbourne appearance
on the hurricane deck of the Orontes, the other
day. She stood there eye-swollen, storm-shaken
-yone minute locked in the arms of a brother,
sister, or chum, the next, grieving aloud, her face
covered lay her hands. The crowd below—that
of the pier—gasped and stared. And at close
quarters a few fashionables gasped too, and were
silent. No one knew how to offer an appro-
priate word. Before the boat put off, Miss
Mignonette Clarke, tearful behind her conoealing
gossamer, crept to Melba’s side, linked her arm,
and whispered something which set them both
smiling. Gov’nor Clarke broke up the tableau,
and bore Melba off for a final calendar of in-
structions. His pet was not entrusted to the
singer’ hands with a haphazard ‘look after the
child.’ Both ma and pa Clarke held many con-
fabs over the matter, and impressed the custo-
dienne with the importance and weight of her
mission.
“With Melba were the Sassolis (harpist and
mamma). The little Signorina evidently failed
to comprehend why ‘Madame ’ was so miserable,
with colossal concert cheques in her treasury and
a great welcome awaiting her at the journey’s end.
But Madame had confessed to her people that she
was broken-hearted, for the time being, by unkind
paragraphs.
“The diva’s going-away garb took the quiet
but expensive shape of dark-blue voile gown,
sable cape, toque with pale-blue pansies, black
veil lined with white chiffon, and white gloves.
“ Quite a dress-parade, the departure of the
Orontes. Miss Vera Clarke (Cliveden) aired blue
Russian coat, turned back with white, and toque
of nutmeg Color, touched with cherry. Miss Eva
Robertson had revers of Oriental embroidery in
brown, gold, and mandarin on her brown frieze.
Mesdames Buckley, junior, sported the new short
skirts, which, to unaccustomed eyes, seem pert
and ‘pronounced.’ Little Miss Clarke, the
Governor’s departing daughter, had mauve front,
livening up her black frock, and looked very pale
under her white veil.
“People on the wharf were comparing notes in
confidential tones. They wondered if it was true
that Melba intended to sing Tosti’s ‘ Good-bye ’
to the accompaniment of the band as the boat
sheered off. Also they declared that, ‘if it was
them, they would leave off the rouge on a day they
were booked to do some blubbing.’ One or two of
the smartest farewellers were openly mopping
away their roses with their tears.
“Justice Hartley Williams’ dame and daughter
held rival farewells on the first deck that day.
No tears; the usual trite things said ; the usual
flowers offered; everything strictly smart. Yet
it is a final good-bye.
“ There is a heavy crop of stories anentthe Star
now that she revolves no more in this orbit. A
male warbler was practising his tootle for a grand
concert. Melba appeared, hearkened a while,
then rushed at him, snatched his music sheet, tore
it to pieces and flung it aside. And when, the
astonishment over, his face fell, and his eyes grew
moist, Melba advised : ‘For heaven’s sake, don’t
look at me like that. You want your ears boxed.
O you booby ! Now start afresh. Oh bother the
music ! And sing, man, sing—don’t gargle!’
Another. Somebody mentions Tasmania. ‘ Here,
drop it. Don’t rasp on about the brutal place. I
lost half my furnishings there with the tossing of
the tub. Ugh ! ’ Tasmania was dropped.
“ There are regular ‘Stonington’ visitors who
aver that the daughter of the house was able to
finance herself on the present trip to Paris. Miss
Clarke plies a pen prettily, and to some purpose,
and is believed to glean a fair amount of lucre
thereby. A local family paper of great bulk has
published some of her innocent stories, or is
believed to have done so. But the greater number
are said to go to the magazines of the Big Smoke.
“Bishop Clarke radiated his smiles on the C. of
E. Grammar School party on Saturday, and
shone as only the elastic-tongued shine at such
fluttersome occasion:?. Study of the large, healthy,
handsome face bears home the happy conviction
that here gaiters are fitted to a mind of mirth.
When the gathering moved indoors, the Anglican
Chief was moved to platform talk. He said some
wise things, some good things, and showed signs
of a prompt wit.
“A curio in the agony column of Saturday’s
Age :
A LTHOUGH distance separates, Love don’t. Hope
on. Love from all. Guarantee payments alright.
It’s their day now, our’s will follow. “ Raleigh.”
“There has been a rush to the altars. Last
week, in brisk suburbs, popular parsons polished
off two or three knots a day. More are
promised for the coming season of chrysanthe-
mums. The quietest effected out Toorak way
was that of Mrs. David M'Caughey, of illimitable
coffers and rich acres, to Melbourne’s verdant
dandy bachelor, Mr. John Fisken, who is quite
famous for his deals in big cattle runs. The cere-
mony was conducted pretty well in camera at the
bride’s own swagger abode in Orrong-road.
“This week, at “Cliveden,” Miss Mary Clarke is
to marry the Hon. Robert Lindsay. The ceremony
has been hurried a little, for the officer has to
return with all speed to headquarters.
“ A divorce suit now costs little more than the
other kind of suit in which man proclaims him-
self. A prominent solicitor and barrister adver-
tises in the daily press that his advice is to be had
gratis, and that he takes divorce cases through
the court for £6. He doesn’t head his ad., ‘Why
remain married, when you can be happy if you
come to me.’ But I see that ad. looming in the
near future.
“A sunstroke laid Mr. Peter Tyson low a few
weeks ago, and so seriously was he affected that
the news of his unconsciousness spread, and the
hospital ’phone was ting-a-linging all day long
with inquiries. The doctors pulled him through
the ‘ stroke.’
“ One of those nice, agreeable bachelors of the
order that boils the billy at the ant-hill picnic,
and turns over the music-leaves in the drawing-
room, and flirts alternately with mother and
daughter, has got his particular self into trouble
by being inquisitive after the handmaid of a Lady
——
Modish. It transpires that the afternoon look-in
was always timed at the precise hour the ladv of
the house was out, and Suzette did the enter-
taining. One day the mistress, while at the
telephone in a friend’s house, heard the bachelor
and the parlormaid exchange greetings and ex
pressions of joy at the chance of a ‘call’ hi
the ‘old girl’s’ absence. The ‘old girl’ and
bachelor arrived simultaneously at the door from
different directions. Suzette is now looking for a
new place.
“George Smith, the shrewd young man who
gave up tinkering in tapes, etc., in a shop, top ur
sue the mummers’ calling, and who fell in for the
managership of Wilson Barrett’s co., has married
one of the promising artists of the co. Having
taken the Barrett co. Transvaal wards, he went in
for management on his own, and now runs four or
five shows in S’Africa.
“In the beautiful ‘Dream’ show Oberon
Rignold sings two or three song snatches with
special charm—soft, deep notes of ’cello stoutness.
An Oberon, hers, of sweet strength and gentle
mastery. The Titania of Miss Nora Kerin is very
lovely, full of tender woofulness and fairy grace.
The pair are exquisite in their forest scenes'
Misses Cynthia Brooke and Maud Milton chase
their lovers in classic drapes and with much poetic
fury. The former, as Hermia, dresses her
generous form in the green of marble veins ; the
latter, as the distracted Helena, clothes her blonde
pleasantness in blossom pink.
“ The Melbourne Women Writers’ Club assem-
bled in force at Port Melbourne last week to bid
goodbye to Miss Katie Conway, niece of Mr.
David Watterston, of the Australasian. She is
going to the cold country for six months. Pre-
viously, the club spread itself at an evening in
honor of the parting guest. Men were permitted
to come, but only two members ventured to bring
their male belongings, who gazed on each other
with rapt sympathy. The evening, however,
passed off well, and another is projected, when
every member vows to bring either a man or his
scalp.
“ It is becoming the thing to carry fencing foils
instead of a golf kit or croquet mallet through
Collins-st. A smart dame, out St. Kilda way, is
coaxing her smart friends to form a fencing-class
at her house for the cold season. Various Toorak-
ites have started, and now try their paces in
theatrical brown velvet knickers and white tunics
or shirts. The bandy-kneed hold back, and others
who refuse are at once suspected of ‘bunkers,’ to
use a golfing term, on the calf. Even if these
fashionable patrons of the foils never seriously
learn to thrust and parry with any alertness,
they’ll have the satisfaction of shaping in the
tricky garb of the fence. By the way, lovely
woman abandons the long, tangle-heel sleeping
robe for natty pyjamas. A she-visitor to a Toorak
house recently, finding this novelty under her
pillow, took alarm, cast the shocking things away
and slept in her bath wrapper. But now she is
initiated and rejoices.
“In ‘Ma Mie Rosette,’ the palace sleeping-
arrangements are unique. When Henri rings the
alarum-bell in the watches of the night to show
Rosette and Vincent that he’s not the sort of king
to submit to blackmail, the servants march in,
entering the room in serried ranks, men in front,
women behind, all dressed in nightgowns, but
orderly as drill-sergeants. It looks as if, in
France, male and female all snoozed together
somewhere on the palatial pavement, in regimental
array. Perhaps Henri, knowing the kind of king
he was, thought there was safety in numbers. If
Rosette, for instance, had camped on space sin
the second-last row of a sleeping army of scullions
and soubrettes, she might not have been troubled
with that mystic feeling stealing over her that
raised such a riot in hospitable Henri’s chateau.
“Last two winners of Melb. Art School’s
travelling scholarships have been Jews—the Alt-
son brothers. Next winner, ’tis said, will be a
member of the same race, in the person of young
Cohen.
“Secret marriages are becoming the vogue.
Smart girls say it’s an excellent and commend-
able thing to get the parental blessing in pri-
vate, and then ‘elope,’ thus saving the tedious
wait of a trousseau and the expense of the joy-
bells.
“ The deft diving of Annette Kellermann is only
one of many accomplishments. The sturdy brown
mermaid has feet of the lightness of fluff and spins
them into a pas de fascination with the readiness
and ease of the professional tripper. She sings,
recites, and fences well, and may yet turn her
voice and Trilbies to account on the stage.
J.C.W. has his eye on her. The wet, brown maid
is attending to one or other of her qualifications
when not diving among the scared fish of the
aquarium or prowling along the shelly beach of
Mentone. One drawback only—Annette is short.
All the portraits are true as to arched insteps and
bold curves, but exaggerate her height. The ordi-
nary elevators would hardly lift her to the mark
of stage distinction. She ought to be rolled out a
bit.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


b?Vr/LUAMS
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE.
1
Blood Builder
Nerve Tonic
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills strike straight at the cause of all blood and nerve diseases. They actually
make new blood—pure, rich, red, strong blood. This new blood carries healing, health and strength
to every corner in the body. It soothes the nerves. It attacks disease right at its source. It
strengthens every organ to act in a healthy, regular way. By this direct action on the blood, Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills actually have cured all these diseases :
Anasmia
Indigest’on
Nervousness
Neuralgia
Rheumatism
Sciatica
Paralysis
Headaches
Backaches
Kidney Disease
Liver Complaint
Biliousness
Diarrhoea
Debility
Eczema
And all Ailments of Women
We shall gladly send you most positive personal proof that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured
these diseases, free, evan when every other treatment has been tried in vain.
Wiifce for information and advice to The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr Williams pink pills for pale people.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Henry Lawson is now in Prince Alfred
Hospital, suffering from nerve break-down.
An Adelaide girl, the other day, died from
the effects of the bite of a cockatoo, received less
than 24 hoilrs previously.
Varney Parkes employs some of his
present leisure in touching up that promised
volume of anecdotes about the late Henry.
The recent shuffle of State Premiers
leaves only one—See—with a title in Australia.
See is English, Irvine Irish, Philp Scotch, Jen-
kins Yankee, and James and Propsting Aus-
tralians.
Miss Miriam Vigar has been licensed as a
local preacher in the Yorketown (S.A.) Methodist
circuit. The report of the parson who examined
her in theology and such is that she “ acquitted
herself very creditably.”
“Johnny” Hines, who knew the favorite
tipple and liquor capacity of every South Austra-
lian legislator for the past 47 years, during which
long time he had been Parliamentary caterer,
retired from the service at the beginning of April.
A North Sydney woman visited Sydney
during Show week for the first time in 24 years,
although she had lived all these years within one
mile of the harbor, on the ridge above Neutral
Bay. This is the sort of material out of which
oldest inhabitants are made.
It has taken James Fraser, the new
Engineer-in-Chief of N.S.W. railways, just 25
years to travel from the bottom to the top of his
professional ladder. He began at Redfern as a
youth of 17., He was born in Braidwood, and
received all his training in N.S.W.
A Roman Catholic pioneer priest died at
Ryde (N.S.W.) recently. Dean Hallinan arrived
in Sydney in 1843, and in the following year was
ordained by Archbishop Polding. He was 91
years of age and for 10 years resided at the home
for aged priests established by Archpriest Sheehy
at Ryde.
A FAIRY STORY.
CHLORIS : “ Yer orter come to the mission, Bill.
The tart wot teaches was tellin' us ’bout
fairies. Ever hear ’bout ’em?”
BILL : "Fairies, yers; didn’t one of’em that plays
in the panto, get took up from our lane fer
nickin’ a mug’s purse.”
Mr. “Reggie” Black, M.L.C., who is off
on a tour of Europe, is a director of almost every-
thing big, from the A.M.P. down to the Perpetual
Trustees, in Sydney. He was for many years a
member of the Sydney D.T. board, and was
known as “ a good man for the staff ” ; there was
much sorrow among the reporters when he left
that board to go into the somnolent politics of the
Upper House.
William Martin, originally of Scotland
Yard, but for nearly half a century resident in
N.S.W., and for a good many years a senior-
constable in the Sydney Water Police, went home
for a trip last week, though 77 years of age. He
was instrumental in the arrest of Thomas Scource,
the waterman, who, on the night of Feb. 2, 1873,
murdered Mrs. Bedelia Lee while conveying her
in a boat from Circular Quay to Milson’s Point.
Scource was executed for the crime.
Governor-General Tennyson will remem-
ber his latest visit to Sydney by reason of the
query of a gushing young woman, in voluminous
attire: “Is it really true, my Lord, that you
threw yourself down in the grass and wrote off
that long poem about Locksley Hall ? The part
about marrying some kind of a mulatto woman is
awfully touching. But there was one character in
it I never could make out —‘the individual
Withers,’ I think he was called.”
“Fluffy Joe” (as people used to call
Joseph Fisher, once proprietor of the Adelaide
Register, when 20 years ago he occupied a seat
in the local Legislative Council) has just distri-
buted £3400 among Adelaide institutions because,
as he expresses it, he objects to the iniquitous law
under which the Government deducts 10 per cent,
from charitable bequests He intended to leave
the money by will, but the temptation to get the
better of the Treasurer was too strong for him.
Mr. Spruce Myth, M.H.R., is taking a
freat interest in the Inter-State Commission Bill.
’ossibly Mr. Myth thinks he might adorn that
Commission, possibly he doesn’t; anyway he does
his best to convince members of the beauties of
the Bill. “You don’t understand this,” said he
to one member (there are few people in the world
who understand as much as Mr. Spruce Myth
thinks he does) “ I’ll show you.’! And he drew a
handful of coins out of his pocket and proceeded
to explain! "‘This ” (putting down a half-crown)
“is the large State of N.S.W,; here to the north
(putting down a shilling) “ is Queensland ; to the
south” (putting down a florin) “is Victoria, and
here to the west Heavens! who passed off that
bad shilling on me ? ” And the lesson there ended
With Mr. Spruce Myth lamenting his cronk
“bob.”
J. W. Fleming, Melbourne’s boss unem-
ployed agitator, has become quite a sassiety fad
since the departing Hopetoun entrusted him with
the task of distributing £lOO in cash and 50 dozen
of champagne among the deserving poor. Chief
Justice Madden now regularly forwards to
Fleming sums handed to him for the unemployed,
and the people who, a few years ago, looked upon
J.W. as a bomb-thrower and a dangerous incen-
diary, now regard hirn as the source of all reliable
information for the guidance of the charitably
disposed.
Premier Propsting, of Tasmania, was once
a school teacher in S.A., and when acting in that
capacity at Kapunda fell in love with a daughter
of Speaker Jenkin Coles. The father did not
consider the young man’s prospects good enough,
so Propsting resigned, returned to Hobart, studied
for the Bar, was admitted, and then tried again
for the girl he left behind him. Seven years had
passed, but she remained true and they were
married. But for that episode Propsting might
possibly be still whacking the backward and un-
regenerate kid in the Crow-eater’s Land.
Died near Perth, early this month,
Thomas Chipper, till then the oldest surviving
native-born Westralian. The foundation of the
colony arrived a day ahead of him. For the best
part of his life he was a considerable link be-
tween the Swan River settlement and the
rest of the world : he carried the mails from
Albany to Perth for 30 years without a break.
With his son-in-law, ex-Minister Piesse, he got
hold of the finest country in the rich Katanning
district, where he died.
On April 21, 35 years ago, O’Farrell was
hanged at Darlinghurst Gaol for the attempted
assassination of the late Duke of Edinburgh at the
Clontarf picnic. All the prominent actors in the
drama and its surroundings are now dead. The
Judge, the Premier, the Ministers of the Crown,
the barristers and the court officials directly con-
nected with the case have all gone. Mr. Sam
Cook, of the S.M. Herald, was connected with it
as special reporter for his paper of a prison inter-
view between Parkes and O’Farrell, and lives to
tell the tale, but his connection was merely that
of a phonograph.
Customs Minister Kingston was at one
time a private, and later on a corporal, in the
military forces of S.A. He was still in
that humble military position when he be-
came Premier. At autumn encampments
when the military Commandant wanted to
see his boss, Premier Kingston, he called
respectfully at Kingston’s tent; when he
wanted his humble military inferior Cor-
poral Kingston he sent for the corporal
and that very subordinate person waited
on the Commandant and saluted. It says
a good deal for Kingston’s ta,ct that he
managed to keep liis two capacities separate.
Apropos the news that King Ned
has increased the number of members of the
order of St. Michael and St. George.
Frederick Treves, the King’s surgeon, tells
a story :—“During the Boer war N.S.W.
Government sent to S’Africa two expert
surgeons to do the operative work for the
ambulances. One of them was recom-
mended for a decoration, and had con-
ferred on him a C.M.G. There was also
at the war another doctor, a young ’un
getting a pound a day, whose name was the
same. In gazetting the decorations the
War Office by mistake gave the C.M.G.
to the wrong man, and the right one was
left out. The War Office never admits its
mistakes, and so things remained at that.”
The late Chief Detective Inspector
of Scotland Yard holds that Klosoffski, the
Polish publican, of Southwark, recently
hanged in London for poisoning three
women, is identical with “Jack the
Ripper,” of Whitechapel notoriety during
’BB. More places have contended for the
honor of having given birth to the Ripper than
was the case with Homer.
An English man-o’-war’s man was, when
the last London mail left, under court-martial for
writing a pamphlet describing the incidents of the
naval trip of Mr. Chamberlain to S’Africa.
“ Gross insubordination ” and “ publishing ser vice
secrets ” are the main charges against the sailor-
man, whose book related how Mr. Chamberlain
was sea-sick and how “ the ship was stopped at
meal times to enable him to take a little food.
The collapse of Brummagen Joe’s stomach was
evidently a State secret not to be revealed with
impunity.
The death is announced at Wellington
(Maoriland) of Dr. Morgan Stanislaus Grace,
C.M.G., M.L.C., Count of the Holy Roman
Empire (so-called because it is a kind of disturbed
and unholy Austrian Federation), and some
other frills. He was 67, and did nothing, and did
it very badly, in the M.L. Legislative Council for
33 years prior to his death. Wellington re-
members him, because at the time of the tramway
strike he waved a banner from a balcony and
called on God to defend the right—by which it is
presumed he meant the tramway co.
COULDN'T SAY.
“ What was your worst drunk
like?”
“ Don’t know. I was too
drunk to remember.”
Retired Melb. Uni-
versity physiological
Professor G. B. Hal-
ford is hale and hearty
at the age of nearly
80, on his farm at In-
verloch (Vic.) Among
his reminiscences is one
concerning the re-
ceipt, at the Uni.
versity, in ’63,
from the cap-
turers of bush-
ranger Mor-
gan, of that
desperado's head for the
purpose of phrenological
examination. The result,
if any, was never made
known, much to the dis-
appointment of the en-
thusiasts who despatched
the parcel. Halford
likewise recalls being
knocked up at 2 a.m. in
the late 60’s by Police
Magistrate Drummond,
who was dying from
snake poison, having
foolishly allowed
himself to be
bitten by a tiger
snake in the
possession of one
Shires, with the
object of deter-
mining if that
impostor’s anti-
dote was of any
value.
Norfolk Is-
land proudly
claims to have
given one peer
to the House of Lords. A wild young
scapegrace named Pery, of the house of
Limerick, landed in Sydney in Bourke’s day with
letters of introduction to the Governor. Bourke
sent him to a clerical position in Norfolk Island.
He married there and had a son, and that son, 26
years after, became Earl of Limerick and took his
seat in the House of Lords.
John Abbott, one of the ancients of the
Bendigo Beehive, where they deal in shares
and other things, used, before he died the other
day, to tell of the old times when he and his mates
were breaking 600 oz. stone from the United
Johnson’s. In the present sdwt. days a memory
like that is refreshing to look back upon.
Grandfather, father, and son, the Stephens
have occupied seats on N.S.W. Supreme Court
Bench for 58 years. John Stephen, 8;
Alfred, 34; and Matthew Henry, the
.present Judge, 16.
J. V. Balbirnie, an old Yic.
colonist who died at St. Kilda a few
years ago, was said to be the lineal
descendant of Lord Balmerino, exe-
cuted in 1746 for rebellion. Any
money that was attached to the title
vanished long ago, for when the last
Balmerino was executed he was even
short of clothes. A good many efforts
have been made to recover the lost
dignity, but without success.
Edward Spicer, the S.A. Wes-
leyan Methodist thousandaire, who
every now and then builds half-a-
dozen cottages for retired Methodist
meenisters, donates muchly to the
building funds of churches. He was
one of the State’s early pastoralists
and importers. That axiom, “The
early bird catches the worm ” is true
in his case as it is in the cases of so many
other early settlers. They left mighty
little undigested worm for those who
came after them.
Bishop Camidge, of Bathurst, is
probably the only professional man, lay
or clerical, in Australia who ever climbed,
steeplejack fashion, to the top of a church
in England, and successfully fixed the
vane, to the great surprise of the local
“ jack ” who “ had missed the ’bus.”
The Bulletin would pay that appallingly
good man, Speaker Holder, of the Reps., half-a-
crown for a paragraph (Holder is a journalist)
describing his feelings while the circus-tricks were
proceeding at Sydney Government House on
Saturday night. Holder is an unassuming man
who has lived a singularly retired life, on a
most modest scale ; and this paper wants to
know what he felt like when he was haul-
ing the knee-breeches over his painfully lean
shanks, and afterwards, when surrounded by “a
blaze of color,” he had to bob and balance before
a “Society” crowd. Apparently he didn’t feel
well over the silly business, because, next morn-
ing, he was out at the Glebe, preaching a sermon
in a Methodist pulpit, and trying hard to forget
that he hadn’t been behaving as usual.
Macdonald Patterson, the Queensland
M.H.R., makes it known, in connection with a
Customs case, that for the last two years he haa
had none of the profits of the Queensland firm of
Macpherson, Patterson, and Macpherson. Mac-
donald P. has many entertaining ways. Some
time ago he explained his waving of hands in the
frenzy of oratory by saying he had no pockets in
his trousers, and, on examination, the garment
was found to have been made without those recep-
tacles. He had ordered his tailor so to make it.
Query : Had that anything to do with his ceasing
to draw profits from his law business ? A lawyer
without pockets is an anomaly.
The late Rev. Charles Clark was by way of
being an athlete, and prided himself thereon.
During his first lecturing tour, he addressed the
students at Melb. University on the horrors of
drink and other current evils, and laid it down as
an axiom that no man could train on beer.
Waxing warm, he offered to beat over a mile op
the flat any beer-drinker amongst the students.
An undergraduate took him up, and the match
was arranged. The students christened their
beer-drinker “Mammon,” and Clark “the other
fellow,” and the betting was on “Mammon.”
When the race came off, “Mammon” let Clark
lead for a little way, and then, catching him up,
began to talk affably to him —the very surest way
to make an opponent lose his head. Clark made
a few valiant efforts to answer some searching
questions on the higher life while he ran, and got
badly rattled. The youth of beer won by a street.
Re a dead ironmonger :
Mr. George Scarfe, the head of the great firm of Harris,
Scarfe and Co., who died in Adelaide on Easter Tuesday,
aged 76, was reputedly worth £BOO,OOO, hut his personal
expenses did not exceed £4OO a year. He was a bachelor,
and until recently lived at the York Hotel. For more
than a quarter of a century before his final illness (which
only lasted ten days) he was never absent from his office
for one working day. He was so punctual in arriving
that he was called “ the peripatetic clock ” of the neigh-
borhood, while he was usually the last to leave. He came
to Adelaide a poor man over half a century ago and started
a general ironmongery store, subsequently becoming
associated with George P. Harris, who predeceased him.
These two men, emptying their lives of everything but
ironmongery, built up between them the biggest hard-
ware business probably in Australia There was not a
country town in their own State where they did not do
business, and very few enterprises of a payable kind in
which they had not some sort of interest. George Scarfe
was a man who devoted all the time he could spare from
his business to attendance on directors’ meetings, and
within a fortnight of his death, although then very
feeble, he was at a gas company’s meeting looking after
his fee. He never took the slightest interest in political,
municipal, philanthropic or other public matters,
except when taxation day came near. In short, he was
the Complete Ironmonger.
THE APPEAL TO THE PHILISTINE.
Sydney Art Society is holding an exhibition of
small, low-priced pictures with the hope of
inducing the public to buy.
Maoriland supplied Hector Macdonald
with his most importunate autograph-hunter.
Travelling from Wanganui his train was hailed at
St. John’s by a woman with a parasol. The train
was pulled up, according to regulations, and the
woman then coolly hunted for her lion. She
found him; and her sublime impudence succeeded.
Then she told the guard he might go on.


THREE STAR
BRANDY
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.
ueniAL surgeon, 43 Oxford-st.i Sydney
DENTISTRY at lowest prices (between Mark Foy’s and Riley-st.). HIGH-CLASS
success. Beautiful and perfect-fitting ' P f lnless extractions b >' latest American system—a great
comfort and natural appearance Coralinemfm£1 c ® Ut:tl ?" sets ot . American teeth, giving the wearer ease,
most recent, up-to-date plate for mount in® utr' ui' "• 1 r? Ut W wires ‘ Elastic Gum Coraline ’! th< i
that it defies detection. For comfort strength \ All wrinkles and hollow cheeks disappear. It is so natural
Coraline is perfectly tasteless and remains d "fitness it surpasses everything previously introduced,
system. Up-to-date gold crowns S a l anri P, ure - Bad ‘y fitting plates remodelled on this new
Single teeth from ss. Teeth filled scaled and n spcennens of latest methods. Upper and lower sets from £1 Is.
I a ’ scale[| a,ld ‘’leached. Country visitors fitted in one day if required.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriglnalities.
To Contributors. — ln the case of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
A letter received from a place between the
Darling and the S.A. border, in the region that is
bounded by the crow on the east and Sheol and
lead-poisoning on the south, and Jenkins Iscariot
on the west and the ghost of Cain on the north :
Dear Bulletin.—The murmuring breeze alluded to
below assays 97J per cent, red dust and 21 per cent, half-
bricks. There has not been an opening flower to woo
since God knows when. The rippling brook is a drought
dream. I believe it did go babbling on once, but as it, is
80 I will not swear it ; and every rush and every
reed was long since devoured by sheep, who have since
been devoured in turn by crows and ants. But it is a
change, anyhow, to dream of something other than hides
hanging on a fence, and starving animals, and grassless
earth, and boiled water, and scraggy meat, and preserved
vegetables and rice every meal, and the sheep that are all
away, and the dead trees I have for company. So we
write verses sometimes to the imaginary girls we may
have when the drought is over :
BACKWARD.
1ST SPORT : "That there young brother of yours
is gettin ’ quite growed up, ain't 'e ?”
2ND SPORT : “ Growed up, no fear. Why 'e ain't
even throwed a stone at a Chow yet.”
“D. Harum ” • Was along the Overland
Telegraph route, a little north of Oodnadatta,
some time back, on a Govt, waggon. Just before
we left Oodnadatta I observed the driver diligently
gathering stones and placing them under the seat.
Enquired what they were for and he told me to
wait. After going some way the mules dropped
into a lazy walk, and the driver, seizing a stone,
let drive at the liind-quarters of the leader and off
we went again at a fair pace. Every few minutes
the driver would shake the mules up in this
maglner, though he never used his whip. Ap-
parently, from long experience, he knew it was of
no use.
“ Jaybell ” on a cat :
The dearth of dead cat in the Australian bush is abso-
lutely alarming, and no amount of poisoned rabbit or
defunct marsupial can fill the long-felt want, from an
educational point of view. Bush people actually don’t
know a dead cat. Nephew Bill, aged 18, paid me a visit
in the city the other week ; he’d never been down before.
Bill was no flat, and he played the concertina like an
angel (a guarantee that he was of a studious turn of
mind). I used to take Bill out sight-seeing and explain
things. We got on well together till one day, in our
strolling, we bisected a horizontal column of well-
developed odor. “ A rabbit,” said Bill, on the unsup-
ported testimony of his nose. Then I sighted the base
of the column aforesaid, and conjectured deceased cat.
It was a cat. Bill looked at it and touched it with his
foot, and called it “ poysoned rabbert." I stuck to “cat,”
and drew Bill s attention to its maximum tail
and minimum ear. Bill only said, “That’s nothin’; it
ain tno cat.” I told him that if it was a rabbit it would
be hanging up in a fish and game shop for sale. “They
don t allow dead rabbits to waste their fragrance on the
circumambient atmosphere like that in the city,” I said.
Bill said “ garn,” and I said it was a fact. Bill said,
“ Which—the eireumdentiimmustophere ? ’’—you see I’d
been explaining things to Bill and teaching him a bit. So
I said, “No, the cat.” Bill said, “You’ll do, but you
don’t have me, you know.” Then we went down Queen-
street and Bill bought three mouth-organs dirt cheap—
BUI can play two at once. When we got home Bill told
my landlady how I’d “ been trying to pull his leg, but it
didn t come off.” She, poor creature, being an emotional
Seventh-day Adventist, chided me for my cruelty to Bill,
and asked Bill if I made it bleed. Poor Bill was only a
Bush Baptist himself, so he actually thought that the
gentlewoman in reduced circumstances had ulterior
designs upon him, and became so scared that he cleared
homeward next morning by the westward train. The
last letter I had from Bill he was laughing over my
“dead cat” joke, and said all the blokes out there
laughed, too, when he told them.
* • * *
W. T. Goodgo on a political matter :
“ Brother electors,” said the orator on the platform at
Bushman’s Flat, “ if the Old Country asks us to pay part
of the cost of the British Navy, we must do so, unless
we are prepared to maintain a fleet of our own. We
must remember, gentlemen, that blood is thicker than
water! ”
“I’m damned if it is!” interjected the man from
Nevertire.
“ What’s that?” fiercely demanded the orator.
“ You say,” said the man from Nevertire, “ that blood
is thicker than water?”
“ I do,” said the orator.
“Well,” said the man from Nevertire, “up our way
there ain’t a waterhole where the water ain’t thicker than
pea-soup, and if blood’s any thicker than that, it must
be like porridge.”
And that was the last time that a silly old phrase
was heard at Bushman’s Flat.
* m * •
From poultry farmer’s letter received by
a Geelong resident:—
I scent u a ruster a weak back sumdy mustuv shooket
Isle cell u sum game cox 3 bob each apiece and Garran
Tee safe dlivree.
yores trooleigh
P.S. Luke Sharp
as another koves after these gaim cox.
* - * • •
Dear Bulletin. — How some of our parsons
love the Ghow ! Last Saturday morning, was
riding with one (parson) to Newcastle,
when two men in a vegetable cart came
through the sliprails, a quarter of a mile
on, and travelled ahead of us. As we
drew up to the shandradan, the sky-
pilot said : ‘ ‘ Celestials ! And how
quiet and well-behaved they are ! Alto-
gether different from Europeans, who
would most likely be smoking filthy
tobacco, or indulging in obscenity!
Let us,” said he, “ wish them the time
of day in passing, and say a kindly
word to the poor fellows.” By this
time, we had got close behind the cart,
and the monkey-shaved gentleman re-
marked how nice and clean the vege-
tables were. So different from what
we see with Europeans. Just here, not
getting the usual whiff of manure from
the cart, I began to have doubts about
chinkies. When we got abreast of the
cabbages, we turned to say the kindly
word, and found the men not Chows at
all, but white as ourselves, and decent-
looking men, too. The parson didn’t
even ask how they were ; and there was
nary a “kindly word” from him to
“the poor fellows.” It sickens me.—
Yarrum.
“ Quad ” : Richmond River (N.S.
Wales) has boasted of some large vege-
table marrows, but one scaling 591bs.
tops the list. This stands at credit of
a Lincolnshire (Eng.) grower, who from
American seed produced the monster.
It was not artificially fed with sugar
and water by means of a string and
bottle —a favorite practice when rear-
ing vegetable monstrosities—or forced by the
application of an electric current, but was merely
well nurtured. A London daily asked for a
larger specimen but could not get it.
• * * •
“ Chasselas ” : Bulletin writers are fond
of picturing Vic. cockies as grasping, “soulless”
men. What about this for white ? A cockie em-
ployed a total stranger on the farm, and, after a
few weeks’ work, the man’s leg was caught and
badly crushed in cog-wheels, necessitating ampu-
tation. Cockie got best surgeon available to assist
hospital doctor at the operation, paid all expenses,
and often visited his man during the time he was
ill, and then presented him with the best cork leg
procurable. Cockie is only a struggling share-
man, and had his house and chattels burnt a short
while before. Remonstrated with by a richer
neighbor about his generosity, he said, “Ah, well,
he’s only got one leg, I’ve two.”
ANOTHER STRONG MAN.
GENIAL PUBLICAN : "Now, don't you
think you've had as much as you
can carry? ”
HAPPY PERSONAGE: “P'raps, boss,
but not as much as I can lift.
Givush another.”
Classic us ” says : Touching your par.
(4/4/03) on the Queensland swagman who pro-
fessed to have discovered an antidote to snakebite
by means of a nostrum compounded of decom-
posed snakes’ bodies, it is just possible that dead-
beat may have once been a Master of Arts;
certainly he could claim the credit of classical
antiquity for his mixture. The ancients firmly
believed that the best antidote to the bite of the
viper was a confection of its own flesh. The
Greek word “theriac,” or “flesh of the viper,”
was first given to such a delicacy, and then to any
antidote of poison, and lastly to any syrup, until
it finally came to be corrupted into our present
•' reac ? e • ,, Chaucer has a line which runs :
Christ, which that is to every harm triacle.”
Milton speaks of “the sovran treacle of sound
doctrine ”; and Edward Waller, in a verse which
~a - f £ rave^e d many a modern reader, wrote:
n/rXi 1 fi ers . * reac^e yield.” Furthermore, in the
Middle Ages, a stuff called “Venice treacle’’was
considered an antidote to all poisons. Archbishop
Irench was the first to connect treacle with vipers.
• • • •
“P.L.” : Interesting to well-borers. At
Donors Hills (Gulf Country) a bore was recently
put down 2000 ft., until granite was struck. As
there was no sign of water, the plant
was sent away to Normanton. About
a fortnight after a small stream,
going about 300 gallons a minute,
was found to be running over the
casing. The plant was imme-
diatelybrought back and bor-
ing re-commenced. Is there
any previous case of a dry
well thus commencing
to run by way of
anafterthought ?
THE
HEATHEN'S
WRONGS.
CONSTABLE O'RAFFERTY: “ I found the two of'em
fightin' outside the pub, yer washup."
CHOW: “This lallikin he say, 'Hello, Paddy!"
O’TUPPENY, J.P.: “ Tim Clancy, yer fined tin
bob. I'll learn ye to take a dirty Chow for a
dacent Irishman." (Chow discharged.)
L. : Be mutton-bird eggs (B. 14/2/’O3).
To the pastry-cook all eggs are good. From each
°k t ' re o J turt es a Melb - fishmonger recently took
about odoz. eggs and 75doz. half-formed eggs-
nothing more than volks. They sold rapidly, a
well-known firm of pastry-cooks buying a quart-
tity.
• * • *
Though splendid rains have fallen on the
country between Goulburn and Hay, the prospect
for sheep-feed even is very remote. In other
years if half the pris-nt rain had fallen there
would have been a wonderful growth of herbage
Ihe reason assigned for this lack of growth is
that the rains which fell first were so heavy as
to wash away the light soil and natural manure
(there being now practically no trees to retard or
prevent the washaway), leaving the earth quite
hungry. The young grass shoots, but the earth
now hardens so quickly that it dies off again
Mackay (N.Q.) has a curiosity in the shape
of a “ wild boy ” named Stewart, who has been
roaming the bush for months. Recently he was
chased by a constable and tracker, who came on
him while he was swimming. He beat them,
leaving his shirt, trousers, blanket, and billy!
What offence there is in being a wild boy doesn’t
appear very clearly, but the police are pursuing
this one with great energy. Possibly Philp wants
to put him on the electoral roll
“C.L.”: Going North lately, met a
prudent squatter, who foresaw the drought and
sold out profitably, and took his family to civilisa-
tion to be educated. Being a prudent man he
invested his money in buildings at Townsville!
When I met him he was going up to look at the
ruins, and see if he could raise enough money on
them to repair his properties. Also met the impru-
dent squatter who didn’t sell out. He recently bor-
rowed a horse and started to muster. At the end
of a week he had seen 27 extremely fat iguanas
and some very thin cockatoos, but that was about
all. He had 4000 head of cattle once upon a time.
* * * •
Junee (N.S.W.) has produced an egg-
laying rooster. He has already laid a dozen, and
appears to be still going strong. The hens with
which he had hitherto consorted, howe'er,
resent his conduct strongly as that of a
non-unionist, and the owner has now to
keep him shut up for pro-
tection.
“ Eller ” : Recently saw a curious happen-
ing between a rabbit and an eagle-hawk. When
I first sighted the pair the hawk was sweeping
rapidly towards the ground, and bunny was lying
motionless ; but, as the bird made its pounce, the
rabbit leapt fully oft. into the air, and the hawk
swept harmlessly past beneath, while bunny made
full speed for cover. Ere he could reach it, how-
ever, the hawk came at him again, when the
rabbit flopped down as before, and repeated the
high-jump and get-away, this time making good
his escape.
MY LOVE IS TWENTY-TWO.
My Love hath locks of sunny brown, with which the
breezes play ;
They flitter-flutter round her brow, as if they’d fly away.
And she hath smiles like beams of light, and eyes of
dreamy blue,
And dimpled cheeks; but best of all—My Love is Twenty-
two.
So, twinkling Stars 1 glide on your way. Go, Sun ! your
course pursue;
Bid every gleam you shed proclaim—My Love is Twenty-
two.
My Love can stay the lowering storm, and chase the
clouds away ;
The magic of her glance can turn dark night to radiant
day.
And though she’s coy, demure and shy, whene’er I come
to woo,
I dare not murmur, for you know My Love is Twenty-
two.
So murmuring breeze, where’er you go the summer flower
to woo,
To every rosebud whisper low, My Love is Twenty-two.
And she hath moods that move and change, and ways
that do beguile,
With every frown she makes a wound, then heals it with
a smile.
So nought care I how rivals rage, or what they choose
to do,
My Love, I know, loves only me—and she is Twenty-two.
So, rippling brook, go babbling on the summer meadows
through,
Tell every rush, tell every reed, My Love is Twenty-two.
N.S.W.
“JIMMY THE RINGER."


B
Used at table and in cooking, Cerebos Salt is
not only dainty and economical, but it makes all
the food more strengthening; because it con-
tains the Bran Phosphates (absent from White
Bread) out of which Nature forms Nerve and
Brain, Bones and Teeth, and Healthy Body.
From Grocers and Stores
Wholesale Agents: - Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Surprises
Continue.
A new line of Hair-Pin Holder has
just reached us.
It has a Solid Silver Top.
It is English Hall-marked.
It has paid 27| percent: Federal duty.
It is difficult to break. -
The body is Austrian Out Glass.
We have only gross of them.
Austrian Cut Glass, with Sterling Silver Top, 1/6. W*
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewelltry House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
“ David Harum ” : Once
witnessed a domestio squabble
’twixt a gin and her
husband. Billy
had ill-treated
one of the
pickaninnies,
whereon the gin
had hit him in
the countenance
with a stone.
Billy soon after
produced awaddy
with knobbed end
and yabbered at
the gin for a few
minutes. Presently
Betsy put her
hands behind her
back, bent her head,
and Billy brought
the waddy down
with tremendous
force on her skull.
She staggered a mo-
ment, then took the
club from Billy and
hit him a blow on hit
head. There the quar-
rel ended. A couple of
days after the pair
came down to the shear-
ing shed as happy as a
newly - wedded couple.
The wound on the gin’s
head was in a filthy con-
dition—it was practically
alive with flies. “Goo’ day,
boss,’’said Billyto me, “Fetchum
out li’l drop burnup water (kero-
sene).’ When she got the oil the gin poured it
over her wound and the incident terminated.
* * * *
“ San Remo ” on the fruit-eating bat: —
Gan support “ Wiljar’s ” statement in “Aboriginalities ”
(11/4/’O3) re the flying fox pest. One has to visit their
camping grounds to get an adequate idea of their immense
numbers. One of their breeding grounds is on Central
Island, in the Fitzroy River (Q.). I have witnessed the
foxes evening flight from there to their feeding grounds
inland, and I can assure The Bulletin that if it were
interested in fruit growing in Central Queensland, and
saw a flight, it would more than “ clear its throat
violently.” I have seen a dense black cloud of flying
foxes, 200 broad, literally blot out the sky, and this
stream of smellful bats fled across the landscape for two
hours before the last fox had left the trees. “ Wiljar ”is
quite right about the way the pests swarm on the
branches of trees, and his estimate of their breeding
ground as being a mile square is quite reasonable. I
should say IS killed with one cartridge is nothing to
boast of. Given a 15-pounder cannon and canister shot I’d
6ug a g' e to bag about 1000. But lam not taking on the game
for sport. They smell too bad. If in leeward proximity
of a haunt when a flight begins one fancies he has boarded
a 5000-ton guano ship just struck by lightning. The
damage done in Australia by these pests must be serious.
Fortunately their habit of forming huge camping grounds
will make their extermination easier when steps are taken
tOjCombat them. They bid fair to be classed with the
rabbit pest, but without the rabbit’s redeeming feature.
Even the devil wouldn’t eat flying fox. A month
ago a deputation of South Queenslanders waited on the
alleged Minister of Agriculture requesting the Govt, to
take steps to wipe out the pest. It was suggested that,
as in I iji, disease might be introduced among the foxes
either by inoculation or contact in their breeding trees.
The pest has thus been wiped out in Fiji, so it is said. I
would like to hear something on this matter from a
Fijian correspondent. The Minister promised, etc., etc.
but the Queensland Govt, is a crew without sufficient
collective brains to run an up-to-date pie-stall on success-
ful lines ; and the flying fox is quite safe in its hands.
* * * *
“ J.H.”*. In support of his contention
that Murray cod will not take the spoon bait,
bi ym ” says that he has fished in the Murray and
other rivers with artificial bait and has never
caught a Murray cod. That is no evidence that
such fish cannot be caught with spoon bait. The
people here (Deniliquin) fish with nothing else
and think that the spoon bait is the best with
which to catch Murray cod. I belong to a party
of five who go out fishing almost every Sunday
during the season and our last trip yielded 32
Murray cod weighing 1871bs. collectively, and
from 401bs. down to 21bs. individually—all caught
on the spoon bait.
* * * *
“ Burglar Bill ” : An instance of the utter
dislike of the growing Australian to get on the
land. In a “first-timers” prison 12 acres of cab-
bage garden outside the walls are cultivated by
prisoners who are within six months of their
discharge. The work isn’t heavy; they are out
all day in the free air, away from the choking
sensation produced by walls, and in my time they
were under the charge of a warder who was con-
sidered very lenient. But they weren’t taking
any. They had to be pulled away from the tailor-
ing and shoemaking, and the wood-heap. Pri-
soners due for the gang, although doing heavier
work, would be planted behind stacks of wood
when the chief overseer came recruiting for the
cabbage garden. The only exceptions would be
occasional bank clerks, who, thinking all other
avenues of employment closed, wanted to get
agricultural experience and strength cabbage-
growing. The majority hated it. They couldn’t
dissociate it from the old man’s bare paddock and
starving stock. To their minds it was a farm,
and they had seen more farms than enough.
* • * •
Be dreams. A few years ago a Botanyite,
named Dowling, went for a sail with one Bucket,
a darky. There was a big sea running at the
time, and the black man didn’t care to face it.
The white asked if he were frightened. Said
Bucket : “It’s not that, Mr. Dowling, but me
dream lars night me and you went out, and you
no come back.” It was as the darky dreamt.
Bucket was cast on the rocks, and had to tramp
six miles, through rough country, before he got
assistance. Dowling didn’t come back.
MISS NORA KERIN.
MISS DORA RIONOLD. Photos, by Talma, Sydney. MISS DOROTHY MARSDEN.
SOME MEMBERS OF GEO. MUSGROVES NEW DRAMATIC CO.
("MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.")
Miss Norah Kerin and Miss Dora Rignold,
whose photos appear herewith, sport the ornate
wings of fairy monarchy in “ A Midsummer
Night’s Dream,” just now being played at Mel-
bourne Princess s. Miss Kerin is a blonde young
Queen Titania, whilst Miss Rignold (daughter of
our old friend “ Falstaff ’’ Rignold and niece
of Henry V.) appears as Oberon, her King.
Charming artists to-day, when their united ages
are little more than 40, they look likely to achieve
great things hereafter. In the meantime these
two bright young ladies can be congratulated on
the fact that their wings seem mere details in the
illusion. They are fairies down to the feet. These
same kind remarks mostly apply also to the third
lady—Miss Dorothy Marsden.
Somebody in Belgium has become in-
terested in Australia, and writes to the A.U.S.N
Co., Adelaide:—
Dear Sir,—l intend to go in Australia. I desire to
have some informations concerning the land and his
economical position (Kingdom animal, vegetable, and
mineral, industries and commerce)—Aspect of the Citys—
Please send me as soon as possible all these informations
so as the prices for the travel and the baggages. I desire
to have these books in French if it possible is. P.S.—The
morals of the inhabitants. Yours truly, ."
THE RUDE LAUGHTER OF FOOLS.
ENGLISH VISITOR (soliloquising with difficulty):
“ The lowah classes in this beastly country
have absolutely no respect for their bettahs. I
will make a note of this in my book on the
kawlonies."
“ The old improve with their advice when
they can no longer deprave by their example.”
“ Burglar Bill ” writes :
Trial by jury received a severe handling during the
hearing of a case by Judge Gibson, at the last Sydney
Quarter Sessions. One Jones was charged with “ assault
with intent to rob,” and the jury, after a lengthy retire-
ment, returned with a verdict of guilty, with a strong
recommendation to mercy. The foreman, in answer to
Judge Gibson’s question as to the grounds for the
recommendation, replied that “a minority of the
jury are not satisfied with the strength of the evidence
as to the prisoner’s intent to steal. They con-
sider the evidence of the Grown on that point
weak.” His Honor refused to accept the recommenda-
tion on the ground that it was not reasonable, adding “ if
that is the recommendation you should find the accused
not guilty." After his Honor had again pointed out the
evidence on both sides as to intent, tne jury again retired,
and in two hours returned with a verdict of guilty. The'
inclusion of a recommendation to mercy in delayed
verdicts often tells a tale—a tale of a weak-minded
minority accepting a sop to convict the unfortunate
against their reason. The present jury system is defec-
tive. Why not box each juror separately, and thus stop
the bullying tactics of the bull-necked, unthinking, loud-
mouthed majority, whom the sentimental minority are
keeping from their butchers’ blocks and counters?
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insuficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
E.R.N. : “Three Lessons” very poor—almost
poor enough to be d d poor M'Ginty : Thanks
Vanitas: “ Love’s Grave ” reads like a rather over-
strained statement of the fact that the woman you were
unmarried to is now unmarried to the other fellow
instead Pullin Levers : Your theory is that because
births are more numerous than deaths just at present
therefore the one generation that is alive must be more
numerous than the thousand or million or ten million
generations that are dead. As to the history of the
human race being “ generally known ” to commence with
Adam and Eve, you had better leave these two generally
exploded myths out of the discussion Andrew B. :
Too long and too unequal in quality J.W.O. : A good
incident, very tamely handled Xerxes : Dull as ditch-
water... .Sandy B. :No time to disentangle such a con-
fusion of characters Rita: Very firm and trim and
precise, but quite empty of human nature... .S.S.F. :
Will look it up first chance.... Mary F. : Hardly worth
printing . Pole-axe: Not up to the mark... .Hugo :
Rather belated , and in any case you appear just as
prejudiced on the one side as your author is on the other
....Chas. G. : Not enough “sand” in it.... Sigma:
Hazy in idea and slip-slop in expression Dan G •
Humor too obviously manufactured No spontaneity “
Serb : There are two principles of common law on the
subject. (1) A child is legitimate when born in matri-
“?® n / 9*. 1 a , c . 0U U e fi°th of whom acknowledge it as theirs
(2) A child is legitimate when conceived in matrimony if
it was possible that the husband of the mother was the
father, even though another man might also possibly have
been the father....R. Sage: Thanks. Of course the
daily papers make something out of the sectarian
row : they make pennies, and political capital for
the Oalico-Jimmy party... .Z.Y. : Exactly. CL-
Every contributor who takes the trouble to cut
out his items and send them in to The Bulletin
accountant gets paid—and paid promptly... Pyke’s
Hollow Dry-Blowers : Why don’t you give dates of state-
merits objected to ? We can’t remember every item that
has been in the paper since God knows when JD •
Will print “Unemployed.”....O.J.M.M. : “ Weary Wife”
has some good thoughts, but you need to take much
more pams with your metre... .T. A. Ballarat : You will
tina the matters referred to, in Bulletin of Jan loth
1901.. ..Jos. F. : Wobbles badly all through, and'comes
down with a crash at the end....Durian • The dot
may be original with you, but it happens to be pre-
cisely that of the “ Curious Impertinent” story in
Don Qmxote.. F.W. : Too much dialect for Bulletin
....Ihppm : Not worth a quarter the space.... Cora :
Nothing to lift it above the ruck R.D.O • Can’t
say till we ve seen it A. Car. B. : Good'material
rather crudely handled and spoilt by occasional slabs of
fine writing. .. ..D.H.R. : Both have some merit, but
are also faulty in ways... .Rover : Good enough stuff,
J »° W-wmded Tee-See : Too tin-potty and
trifling Amadeo : Will try to wrestle with it as soon
as possible.. . J. Me. : Will print “Fettered.” Doubtful
about other two. Junior Clerk: Matter already dealt
with H.M.M : She Stooped” rather a weak frag-
“•V Pa V “ fhatyou say is true, why not complain
to the Department of Justice. A police-court magistrate
cannot lawfully fine a man for attempted rape.. John
R. : Rather vague criticism....lgnotus : Small jokes in
many words Tony: Pretty verse, but on too familiar
lines.... Quilp: We never made the suggestion, and
we re not going to discuss it... .Ne’er-do-Weel: Kate
Vaughan is buried n0w....Wi1l L. : “Johnstone’s Poem ”
doesnt quite hit us . .Mark Julian: None up to standard,
though The Lion Tamer ’ has a capital central idea, in-
differently worked 0ut.... J.Y. : Basketed accordingly...
LM.C. : Fizzles feebly out... .Tokelau : Bones of a good
story, with no meat on them.... J.C. Raynor: Verse only
respectable. Returned... .W.F. Chambers: Will print
“ Little P0em.”.... J.F. : “ Windfall ” quite hopeless
G.T.B. . Some pars usable ; don’t know his address...
Eottie G. : If you 11 send an indemnity bond for £1 ■ €OO
we 11 consider the advisability of identifying a woman now
charged with murder with a well-known actress of long
ago... .F.S.S. : The marrow of it has been said before
Nemo : Hardly interest enough J.P.H.G. : Returned
too jerky and inconsequent... .Sivad : Don’t care for
either of them.... Diamond: You’re a long way from
being of the first water... S.A.P. : “ Beef and Bread »
accepted . .J.L.C. :An obscure person named Tennyson
about exhausted the brook as a poetic theme W
mixed up in the teliing
... .0.W.8. : Passably well done, but Bulletin doesn’t
care for parodies.... Exile : But you don’t account for
the absence of the real Mary Ann Mrs. G.B B • Please
let us know with what view the sketches were submitted—
have been already printed.... Lucius: A weary waste of
words.. ..G. : “Grand Old Game ” very bumpy verse....
Vanitas : “ Old Story ” is plain seduction in five verses...
J.G.T. : Jupiter makes its transit across the dise of the
sun just like any other planet, and whether there is any-
body in the three outer planets to watch it, or whether
they could see it if they did watch, are points that make
no difference. The planets go on just the same whether
they are watched or not. Didn’t you know that?....
Wilga : Hasn’t pith enough for Bulletin Jumper:
Too verbose and rigmarolish.... Fred G. : Completely off
the literary track.... A.H. (W.A.) : Good style, but
subject of slight interest... .Hugh Ross c Good descrip-
tive power. Sorry the screed would not suit Bulletin...
rrancis C. :No power of presentment Nial Mor :
Doesn’t even reach mediocrity C.D.T.: Album verse
in potted phrases , .Orion : Not bright enough.
Ij. Chetwynd : “Alone” and “The Sweaters” unsuit-
able : they say nothing new at great length. “ Who
Knows” rather feeble trifle... .W.H.R. : Too close to
familiar democratic verse with the same motif F.O. :
The E.E. people have a right to push their business that
way if they choose. Certainly Australasians ought to
give a preference to the Pacific cable Unsuitable:
T.S., Truth, Nada .Bo: Too many metres ki one
poem, and when a line has to be laboriously padded
out with ‘ for to go” and similar remarks, that line is no
good Paget (M.L.): Have you ever seen the “free
bush-life in Australia, or felt the “cool bush breeze"?
Have you ever taken the lid off Sheol and looked in ?
Are you so fond of the smell of bones and dust?....
Phlox . Sorry ; but the yarn about the American who ia
walking: round the world for a wager of 100,000 dollars,
made with Bounder Z. Dogbox, of Pittsburg, is quite
dead now. L.M.D. : Sorry, but subject of “ Manton,
Cyme, is too hackneyed... ,G. : “Highly Irrational
A raere ly a sort of jim-jam sampleum....
G. M. : One crude, too crude. Crude two is founded
on an incident that has been much used before A.W.
Stingy : “ Stubbs ” rejected on grounds of good taste.'...'
Dicky : Musical jingle, but not much reason in it. The
Bushland doesn’t sing much... .F.H. : “Dulcimer” is
the essence of the pretty commonplace—a faint, faded
trifle about “love” and “wings,” and all the other
laboriously walloped-up emotions... .8.A.8. : Not poems.
Hardly even doggrel... .C.J.M. : One suitable for illus-
tration Classicus: Yarns dug out of old books as to
the hist woman doctor and so on more suitable for
Answers. .. .W. 0.: “The Pity of It” made us tired:
we re getting tired of pitying the girl who fe11... .Ben
f I JP •' Splitting Fence Rails ” not quite up.. A.B G :
The Prescription" has been Bent to the Chinese War
Department to make stink pots of.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
F.S.T. : We don’t want to throw pictures at the Civil
Service in its hour of trouble Hoch Kirch: A small,
stale joke with J-col. of explanation. We like fresh,
juicy ones that need no explanation H.A.P. : All
?>°xi e r S: Use one • °ffi ers ar e very solemn
R.M.J. (YVaverley) : “ Woman of Pleasure ’’ too reminis-
cent of stale egg... .H.M. : “ Lean Stock ” devoid of the
flesh of humor.. ..Mopper: The bald head of apub.-
keeper with a face like John Norton did not make us
laugh F.B. : Only an extraordinarily smart drawing
mu d carry the dead weight of the joke on social cricket..
H. : The pudding-cloth on the ear too nasty. ...
Broad Arrow : Both unsuitable W.G. (Tamworth) :
Unusable Artists are hereby requested to send in
something fresher and better than two human beings in
a standing position cracking a machine-made joke
E.E. .Drawing too crude. May use as suggestion...
Unsuitable : F.E.F., D.M'A., W.D.
Charles Bright.
Few men of 70 keep a sprightlier step on the
pavement or a cheerier face to the world than did
Charles Bright, who died last week. He came to
Australia 42 years ago. First start in life was on
Melb. Argus— Edward Wilson, editor; Aspinall
leader of staff ; staff consisting of Willoughby and
Bright. The Argus connection lasted for some
few years, and was only broken when Bright
began to foregather with Freethought, as did his
colleague and senior, James Smith (still living),
with the spirits.
In Melbourne, in his best days, Bright was
pre-eminently one of the elect—as much at home
at a high shivoo of the University as in Mrs.
Hegarty’s bar, next door to the Argus. A bril-
liant after-dinner speaker; a debater with tongue
as well as pen. But he knew always when to
debate, and when to talk. A man needed
to be all a man to hold his own in those
times, for pressmen then and there held
their own, and with cordial welcome, on
all the heights of intellectuality and commercial
and social success. Most of that good life was in
some way associated with the Argus. The old office
was the intellectual centre of Australia. Judges
graduated there, the best of the old University
professors were regular contributors. Hearn (of
the ‘ Aryan Household ’) wrote one article a
week fer many years. Dr. Neild was a flaneur.
Ma-rcus Clarke dropped all the best of his whimsi-
calities into the box, and amid such men a» these
Charles Bright held up his head.
About middle life a hatred of humbug took
Bright in charge, or otherwise lie became strangely
obsessed. Then began the Freethought lectures.
An iron-grey man, he was at that date (1870-1-2)
square-jawed, level-headed, uncompromising.
There was no money in the lecturing business.
Bright was not built on the Charles Clark lines.
Perhaps, also, he was too much in earnest just
then. He got into the inky way again as leader-
writer on the Age, and worked with Windsor
for the best part of a decade. Had the
usual little difficulty with “David,” and walked
out. “David” would have whistled him back
within a month, but the Mutual Life of New
York had intervened. “Don’t know what you
want with me,” said Charles, “I’m one of the
worst business men in Melbourne. Couldn’t
canvas enough to keep my pipe going.” But the
’Murikan man knew, and the old journalist and
Freethought lecturer, was shortly installed,
with a few thousand dollars in furniture about
him and a comfortable screw. He ran their
advertising, and edited the monthly journal.
That connection lasted till recent days It was
the restful period of his life, which many old
friends hoped might be fruitful in good literary
work. But he had spent all power of that sort
on David’s treadmill and in fruitless centroversy.
Death came in the familiar grey of influenza,
and did not invite a particularly unwilling guest.
Not a few of Bright’s colleagues, those Trojans of
the fifties and sixties, survive him; Willoughby,
James Smith, R. S. Smyth, Haddon, Henrv
Gullet, Windsor and David, are amongst them.
The next crop in that field did not last half as
well. A curious fact—and easily established.


( oti fA °f
Aitle
/\?eHl‘ cr J~>
/itar/We 1° "i on $ A
U AnsA TtAtolJty&l
HtjiP -vVitK *^ e ,
Jf
\te\Jev Aj*
w (>»»% A +c
v): — I'i« 11
Y Vow ill W e ll^
\ n,cved A f
(pnlnyonvfejff Will I>e aj>le ITWoV/ J|
njoKe A S S^ —
- ' A°* 1,7
*i* W "7°^
(TN confidence " “ l 5
||jjg||
kJ>
Ihe BuileHn would boin'Tbuir IfjK^Y rorT 7
it" h*S found lUty
Public Conscience is extremely well
e*>'ly SljocKed
(Hie
3v II Sent" in \ V v(
v dissV>Soeia(te
\ \
x. He >TC<r nrfoVe is \
Nyl "jor Itj« Qo^Ct'nrrjenf— * A^e.
te. ~ m pr : %M ■ w , )
Kirra yo« lold rye ° ( 1
sfekfw, t >■
< c cWjV ,/
or^Ti'^ ) 2^ lon c** •
2>F\&& ur 2^'J Q - yr
_ la^Tof"%s& s *o <s
(Wr 'for Suf?fressi>T£. <p *> A
b> of 'for -rife lown'ft&Jl y||j
5\ 'for Tom H*"" . jff////A
"lfjere once *
. bKoud ircvncd a,n
* God tiers Ifoy cured m
k 1 C t C y~ I «
» R*l w A'f r {Xo re j>ort€k on .
„ * ' "They'll be 'telling; church 'to co'to n4*T
f i ot ' n| Churi\] {bf2>s«L
T"Kerypcf Irvine. fT 3enT "lTfc Ejnjjl "to
j H7C
fby ' stoJr> ! W^Ty^yom k»jow^
MflfffijeJ' s)jc’s if ns be l ' W>} ,°r b oW sb«
jpoof , yea Know Simply qclf)inz^ her- 7 e^re|>t _ 't^2 li r sfye.'s bjungry
S'fil)
I rrtfl io
VICTORIAN MATTERS AND EVENTS.


The provident man was limited in his aspirations for a family’
while the improvident classes bred apace. If these latter were
catered for at the expense of the general community, the result
would be that the ratio between the provident and improvident
classes would become much worse. The provident would lie made
\to take a fresh step towards further providence. i
OCCufATiO N §oi*&
AN r Myj r. Brace Sn-rf) I^y 1 .
X J " /cole /jere Brace SajiEr/,
M Vour lemote a. 7 rc€stor-Sco,
V tt ‘W.
rawed \
y<UL 6fc" llj£Ld (jinjytKC. .
'
A r Gni Do
h/»THour THIS C=joo7) ° .
IVF'Qfi K&PluCi Vomh FA*] nirs
zj/zs/T auiTt a/eiv - thf heAfrie*
im net* bfir7doess Beew in AJ>/me
oF US V*y.
KjDERS -g E N0 _
lIP Because Tri -
B o T>y^> mwl) F ° R
hfd
/4LI kiwDS
I oFCrifAP SUJS'
Statutes /j
jwhllLL M
v souqHTM
\Tor
>l>aes Apfenn
7 Sybwey Heads AmL
TI,eKE *I°H7 Be no yotiWjP®Sf
" To MA/v Trffc Ci/NS
V
iHF OFFICE, OF x
MdTHERNLAW WILL '
re a mere Sine-
cure « — J
yoi/
M
THE LOGICAL SEQUENCE OF BRUCE SMITH’S DOCTRINE.-As followed out by Hop’s Understudy.


A. SAUNDERS,
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY, CUTLERY
OPTICAL AND LEATHER GOODS.
Gent.’s LEA.THER ROLL,
containing Two Hollow-ground Razors, Corn Knife,
Nail Scissors, Tweezers, 20s, 255.
Similar, with 1 Razor only, 15s.
Ladies or Gent.’s WRITING FOLIO,
Polished Morocco, containing Blotter, Notepaper,
Envelopes, Reference Book, and Stamp Ticket
Case, and every convenience, 255.
Heavy Silver Mounts, 455.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, £l.
Two Pure Silver-mounted BRUSHES and COMB,
in Silk Case, £3. Other styles, £2, £2 10s.
Pure Silver SHAVING BRUSH and SOAP DISH,
in Silk Case, £2 12s 6d.
t CffirS .
Pure Silver Pearl Handle BUTTER KNIFE and
JAM SPOON, in Silk-lined Case, 20s.
Similar, 15s 6d, 17s 6(1.
;tk(
2%
if*;,
Nicely Chased and Carved JEWEL CASE,
pure Silver-plated, 8.11: -lined, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 80s.
Pure Solid Silver-plate PUFF BOX,
20s.
In Solid Silver, £2 and £2 10s.
SMELLING SALTS
BOTTLK,
Solid S.lver. 21s.
Cheaper lines Cut Glass,
Silver Tops, 3s 3d, 5s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s, 15s.
GENT.’B HANDSOME PRESENT.
SHAVING OUTFIT, Pure Silver Spap Holder, Shaving Brush, and Razor,
in silk-lined case, £2 10s.
• " =
Ladies’ Pure Solid Silver-mounted TOILET SET.
Hair Pin Holder, Scent Bottle, Puff Box, and Pomade Pot, £2 10s.
Larger size, £3 10s.
First-class
Gent.’s
SHAVING
BRUSH,
5s 6d.
Extia
mounts,
7s 6d, 12s 6d,
LADIES’ TRAVELLING COMPANION
Containing Hair Brush, Cloth Brush, Salts Bottle ’m;
Comb, Tooth Brush, Scissors, Nail Rle, ’and Gloved Z «
Gent, s, similar, with Rkzor, 17s fid ’ ss 6d '
A LADIES’ PRESENT.
Pure Silver-mounted Glove Stretcher, Shoe Hook, Glove Hook
and Shoe Lift, in nice leather case, 25s ; smaller, 22s 6d. '
Mb,
r 'At
mm
■
to';'
■
/j
wßm
-- .w
r :
M
HANDSOME PRESENTATION TEA AND COEFEE SET, HOT WATER KETTLE, AND SALYER.
The very best English plate, manufactured, by J aines Dixon ana Sons, makers to Royal Family. Beautifully chased, and ornamented
The lot, as above, 25 guineas. Other Tea and Coffee Sets, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £lO 10s.
We will be pleased to submit special designs if required.
A NICE PRESENT.
Gent.'s CIGARETTE and CIGAR
CASE.
5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s, 255.
Price according to quality and
mounting.
Gent.’s Silver CIGAR CUTTER and
PIERCER,
very useful and acceptable, 10s.
9ct. Gold, 255.
Pure Sojid Silver MATCH-
BOX, nicely chased,
6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
X' :
ass
PBESENTATION INKSTAND, extra quality Plate, most artistic
design, £2 10s. Cheap lines, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
I .ladies’ Present
Ohalle
SPEC. CASE.
3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d,
10s, 15s, 20s,
80s, [£2.
I 1
XMAS PJRESENT.
Pure Silver Ladles’ HAIR BRUSH, 12s 6d. Very Cheap.
Other qualities, 20s, 255, 80s, £2. A Nice Present.
Ladies “ MIRROR,” Pure Silver-mounted,
beautifully chased, 255, 30s. Other styles, £2, £2los,
Solid Silver-plate Gent.’s
SHAVING MUG, Gilt inside, 2Cs.
Other styles, 10s, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 255.
PROTECT YOUR EYES.—Dust and Sun Protector
Most Soothing to the Eyes. Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
SEND FOR OUR
PRICE «_IST.
Ladies’ PURSE and CARD CASE,
Crocodile Leather, Silver-mounted,
5s 6d ; with Shield, 7s ed.
Other styles, 10s, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver Cloth or Hat BRUSH,
beautifully chased and ornamented,
15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s
A. SAUNDERS.
“Swan” Pure Silver
PIN CUSHION, 7s Gd.
srvaß'A
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN CASE, Ss6d. 10s, 12s Si-
Gold Filled, 17s 6d, 20s, 22s 6d,
Solid Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER and SILVERSMITH,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
OPPOSITE REDFERN RAILWAY STATION. 1


SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331-per Half-dozen, f ree by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
HAVE YH
A BAD LEG
with Wounds th»t Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated ; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there majt be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don't say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Lege,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England
Agents : (YI.LIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright.
True Pen Comfort is spelt
“ SWAN.”
incf up
Tor You
'1
The good point of
the swan Foun-
' tain Pen has made it 1
, the writer’s true friend. "
r Perfect in construction,
positive in performance, _
It ‘‘sticks up’’ for the user
whenever writing is a necessity.
FouKTAIH
Is the easiest of all fountain pens to care for.
Refilling over the point of the pen thor-
oughly cleanses the feed and does away with
the everlasting nuisance of taking apart.
Fully guaranteed by the world’s largest and
best gold and fountain pen manufacturers.
MABIE, TODD S’ BARD,
London and Manchester, England.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers, and Importers.
I
LM
—• «ci
vOV/v
Va
ficfla
a.,-
«i
m
fa
CVA:
n*i
W-
-J W
THE HOWARD BROTHERS,
At work at WIRTHS’ CIRCUS, fIELBOURNE.
THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE - - MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
THIRTIETH REPORT presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting: on 29th April, 1903.
rrHE directors have pleasure in submitting: to shareholders the annexed balance-sheet and statement of accounts
J- for the half-year ending 31st March, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £5965 7s. 3d. brought from last half-year) amount to £13,344 18 11
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz.
To pay the usual dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum (free of income tax).. £3,750 0 0
To transfer to the reserve fund 7,500 0 0
11,250 0 0
and to carry forward the balance .. .. .. .. .. .. • • .. .. .. £2,094 18 11
From the profits as above will have to be deducted the income tax now payable by the Bank under the new Act,
the assessment of which has not yet been made, but the tax will probably amount to about £460.
On 16th February the Bank entered into occupation of the building recently purchased and situated at the
corner of Collins and Elizabeth streets. The necessary alterations in the portion used by the Bank itself have been
completed, and further alterations to the upper portion of the building are in progress, which will considerably
improve its letting value. The new premises are found to be very commodious and convenient, and the improve-
ment in business consequent on the change has been most encouraging—the increase in every line of the balance-
sheet figures being highly satisfactory. ...... , . . „ „ ,
If shareholders will continue to assist the directors as in the past by introducing new business to the Bank
wherever possible the results cannot fail to be gratifying to all concerned.
By order of the Board,
H. T. WILSON, Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMTED,
Dr. For the Half-year Ending 31st March, 1903. Cr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised—
-600,000 shares of £4
each •• •• ..£2,400,000 0 0
To Capital Subscribed—
First issue of 160,000
shares .. .. .. £600,000 0 0
~ Capital paid-up .. £150,000 0 0
~ Reserve fund .. .. 22,500 0 0
~ Profit and loss account 13,344 18 11
~ Notes in circulation
~ Bills in circulation
~ Government deposits
To Other deposits—Rebate and Interest
accrued—
Not bearing interest £151,471 18 0
Bearing interest .. 538,830 17 3
~ Balances due to other banks ..
~ Contingent liabilities, as per contra ..
£185,844 18 11
7,746 0 0
50,263 11 10
Nil
690,302 15 3
69 3 0
153,947 0 0
£1,088,173 9 0
ASSETS.
By coin, bullion, and
cash at bankers
~ Government, munici-
pal, and other public
stocks, debentures,
and funds
~ Notes and bills of
other banks ..
~ Balances due from
banks ..
~ Stamps
£174,299 7 1
70,150 0 0
243 16 8
7,593 12
774 0
By Real Estate, consisting of—
Bank premises .. -
Other real estate, at cost to bank
~ Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts .. ..
~ Bank furniture,fittings, stationery, &c.
~ Liabilities and securities of customers
and others in respect of contingent
liabilities, as per contra
£253,060 15 10
51,627 7
21,230 7
607,427 18
880 0
153,947 0 0
£1,088,173 9 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To salaries, rent, and other charges .. ..£3,487 9 11
~ Balance.. .. .. .. .. •• 13,344 18 11
£16,832 8 10
By balance at 30th September, 1902 .. .. £9,715 7 3
Less dividend declared 29th October, 1902 3,750 0 0
~ Balance carried down £5,965 7 3
~ Profits for the half-year after deducting
interest accrued on deposits and rebate
on bills current, less reserves for bad and
doubtful debts 10,867 1 7
£16,832 8 10
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
£22,500 0 0
£22,500 0 0
Democracy’s Opportunity.
Victorian M.L.A. Prendergast lately went up
Rodney way and in very short order organised the
navvies on the Waranga Basin works into a solid
body 500 strong—each with a vote for the State
House. This was a State matter only and was
mostly done for the benefit of the Kyabrama-
pootra, but the lesson taught should be promptly
digested—and acted on—by every Labor body and
party throughout the Commonwealth. For
the Federal elections are almost at hand
and at these elections Labor will have the
best chance it probably ever will have
to sweep the polls and get an absolute majority.
At the first Federal election the rolls used were
the existing State rolls—eliminating in all cases
the plural vote. But thousands of citizens were
not on those rolls —for a variety of reasons. The
Commonwealth rolls are now being made up, and
they include practically every adult. Be it
remembered that on the old State rolls Fatman’s
name was always present; mostly it was there
many times over, but it was always there in one
list or another ; it was the name of the lean man
that was so conspicuously absent. That is not
the case to-day. Be it also remembered that these
rolls may seldom again be quite so all-embracing
and representative as they are to-day. The Com-
monwealth can’t afford to make np fresh rolls
every year or so, and there will also be thousands
who will be too careless or too tired to get their
names placed on the list. The figures already
published as to the Federal franchise show
that there will be a large increase of voters
for the next as compared with the last
election ; and most of these are democrats, for, as
stated, Fatman’s name was there before. Omit-
ting, for the purposes of comparison, the female
vote, a few instances will show how the mere
enfranchisement of numberless nomads and
others has altered the balance of electoral
power : Hawthorn (Vic.) on the State rolls used
last election had 3880 voters; on the Common-
wealth rolls it has 5193. males. Jolimont
had 2,329, to-day it has 3176. Per contra, Mel-
bourne city, where the Fat Man’s plural vote was
strong, had 4474; to-day it has 2486. Melbourne
East had 5010; to-day it boasts but 3973, and so
in other cities. The plural voter disappeared last
election, but he still possessed the useful right to
vote where his vote would do most good ; to-day
he has lost that power and must vote on his resi-
dential qualification only; and, in addition to
that, the democratic vote, as shown by the returns
for such electorates as Richmond and Colling-
wood, has largely increased. Wherefore it is the
business of Labor to get itself to work organising
—and at once—all over the Commonwealth ; then,
instead of a balance-holding party of a score, it
may form an absolute majority of the House of
Representatives. And two out of the three new
Senators in every State should be Labor men. If
that be done, when Barton retires, the recon-
structed Ministry would begin with Kingston—
the rest of it would be mostly Turner and Labor.
A Country that Can’t Afford to ha
Inhabited.
Some extracts from the rather too lengthy letter
of “ A Working Woman ” on the small v. large
family question :
Some more or less reliable person tells me that the
population of Australia is decreasing [lt most assuredly
isn’t. —Ed. B.] Well, I don’t intend to increase it any
more. I have done my share by being the mother of six
children, and would sooner die than be the mother of
seven. Have been fined in the local court for not sending
them regularly to school, when they had no boots to go
in. Now what is the use of bringing children into the
world when you cannot even keep them in boots ? You
can’t complain of the working classes not populating the
country— they generally have too many children. It is
the wealthy people that ought to have the children,
because as soon as they are born they can be handed over
to a wet-nurse.
One woman writing to the Argus makes servants the
excuse. Don’t see it. Never had a servant, but would
not mind having one if someone would pay her wages.
Met a man the other day whose wife had just had her
ninth child. He was going from pub. to pub. “ wetting
the baby’s head.” Sympathised with him having so many
to feed and clothe, but he said he didn’t care if he had a
dozen—" bless their little hearts—let ’em all come ! ”
Asked him if his wife was of the same opinion. He
scratched his alleged head and admitted that “it was a
bit rough on the missus.”
I was a patient in the Women’s Hospital once. The
woman in the next bed had just had triplets and was a
bit fretful. The doctor, by way of consolation, said :
“ God, who has the ruling of these things, must have
known you were a good mother when he sends you three
babies, and” (glancing round the ward) “these other
mothers only one.” “Oh ! ” said she, “ I don’t think God
had much to do with it.”
No true woman, I think, would like to be without
children, and married couples that have no family seldom
live happily. But there is a medium, and it is nothing
short of a crime to bring children into the world if you
cannot afford to keep them properly clothed and
fed. One of my neighbors has just had her
fourth child (No. 3 cannot walk yet). “ Puppa,” she
said, “ loved to have a large family round him.” Now,
the said puppa goes off to the theatre on his own a
couple of times a week. Can’t take mumma on account
of the children. Mumma, in fact, goes nowhere—hardly
sees the light of day, and is worn and old-looking at 24.
What I want to know is what mumma is living for ? Will
the children repay her when she gets old ? I say No !
At one time mumma was a nice, natty little woman.
How can she be neat and tidy now ? She has no time to
think about such things, and by-and-bye puppa gets tired
of home and its constant worries—is the lover no longer
—has not been for some time —and spends his evenings
in the nearest billiard-room. But mumma struggles on
for the sake of her little ones, rears a large family some-
how, and then all she has got to do is to peg out. And
there isn’t so very much recompense in pegging out, is
there ?
Which all seems to boil down to these two propo-
sitions. (1) Some people don’t want children.
(2) Many people want them but can’t afford to
have them, for mining is precarious and often ill-
paid ; and agriculture is more precarious, and, for
the mere worker, always ill-paid ; and Govern-
ment relief work is transitory and ill-paid; and
life in the cities is mostly a precarious existence of
odd jobs, the Freetrade or low tariff craze for
importing things having prevented any great,
Drofitable and reliable industries arising. In
short, the theory is that Australia can’t afford to
be inhabited nowadays.
4
“ Leila ” on a theological point :
Talking over the baptism business, once asked our
Anglican vicar if he really thought a child was doomed !o
hell if it died unchristened. “ Well, you know,” he said,
“ we don’t like to say that any soul is lost ; but it would
start in eternity with a very serious handicap.” And
then my brother asked him : “ How many yards behind
scratch ? ” There has been a coolness ever since.
In Hyde Park, Sydney.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“What mean those pennons flying ?”
A stranger said to me.
“ Like colored dishcloths drying,
About that huge marquee ? ”
I said : “ Those flags elate that
You see—blue, red, and chrome—
Are meant to indicate that
The Harmy is at Home.”
Quoth he : “I used to fancy
This Park the People’s own,
The property of Clancy,
And Smith, and McElhone.
“ I also thought that no man,
Whate’er his creed or clan,
Or Anglican, or Roman,
Or Presbyterian,
“ Had any special claim here
To camp on public ground ;
Put, since to-day I came here,
My logic seems unsound.
“ And yet a small suggestion
I’d like to make to you,
For settling of this question—
If what you say is true.
“ There’s folk enough, I guess, go
Around who have a bent
For worshipping alfresco,
Or in a circus tent.
“ Then let each free Reserve go
To make some sect rejoice,
And that which has most nerve go
And take first pick and choice.
“ Where old Macquarie’s Lady
Sat in her chair of stone,
Are spaces green and shady
The Wesleyans might own.
“ The rest of the Domain should
Contain the other lot—
But still I think a chain should
Be stretched between each plot,
“To keep the fold from danger
And saint from saint aloof ”
I gazed upon the stranger,
And saw—a cloven hoof.
'N.S. W.
CREEVE ROE.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
Truly this world is full of strange things.
Joseph Chamberlain has said this in South Africa:
I leave this shore more convinced than ever that the
forces—the natural forces—that are drawing you toge-
ther are more potent than the evil influences that would
tend to separate you.
With these words as a text, Rudyard Kipling
prints a poem in the Times, a verse of which runs
as follows :
Where my fresh-turned furrows run, and the deep soil
glistens red,
I will repair the wrong that was done to the living and
the dead ;
Here where the senseless bullet fell, and the barren
shrapnel burst,
I will plant a tree, I will dig a well against the heat and
the thirst.
The war is over now, and even Kipling may
allow himself to write a little truth about it.


ToCure Korse Ailments.
Eminent Veterinary Surgeons
(see Book on Bottle) strongly
recommend CODdy’S Fluid as a
speedy and absolutely Certain
Cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore
Backs, Broken Knees, Grease,
Thrush; Cracked Heels and
Mud Fever in Horses.
Insist on having “ Condy’s Fluid.”
Sold by all Chemists & Stores.
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei).
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
•ill
a
iassSsii
IwMrtNN^c*
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons' Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
SPECTACLES
-FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, x.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
. .. , . dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our niarvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test y ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 Ceorge-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
“Don’t shout”
" I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
‘ How ?’ Oh some- |
thingnew— The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-.
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can'l see them .
ihey're invisible. I woulirtit
know I bad them in mysen.
only that I hear all right.”
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable *• Totally
different from any other de-
I vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
>. CHAtmgft. 229-231 Collins. V-. e l°l
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Two hundred thousand men went to
South Africa to fight for the Uitlanders’ votes.
How many had votes themselves ?”—Tom Mann.
Wanted an amendment of the Factories
Act to apply to all “charitable” institutions.
Sweating in the holy name of charity is becoming
an evil of giant proportions.
The rush of American settlers into Canada
suggests two things—the British immigration into
the Transvaal and the camel’s entrance into the
Arab’s tent. The British immigrants took the
Transvaal and the camel took the tent.
It looks as if Sydney’s North Shore Bridge
was about to die a natural death. It served
Parkes’ turn on many occasions, but that wily
politician knew better than to build a bridge, and
so lose the votes that he got by promising one.
The very latest Experience of Tommy
Bent’s comic-opera Vic. railways happened when
a number of men arrived at Warracknabeal
shoving Tommy Bent’s engine, which had run out
of water and had been compelled to give up busi-
-oess and leave the train 1-g miles back.
Tasmania will shortly have a small, quiet
centenary on hand. A hundred years ago this
year Lieutenant Bowen was sent by Governor
King from Sydney to settle on the island. The
party, consisted of the Lieutenant, Dr. Mount-
garrett, three soldiers, four female prisoners, and
six male ditto.
A Supreme Court Judge and Minister of
the Crown met in Sydney, the other day, and
the Mercadool cases accidentally cropped up.
Both were intimately acquainted with the matter
five or six years ago, but both now admitted they
didn’t ;know what happened or is likely to happen
to anyone implicated.
On the Westralian fields they are dis-
cussing the introduction of a worn-out miners’
fund, more or less on the lines of the “ Watson
fund,” at Bendigo. But that, good as far as it
goes, is not the ideal. The N.S.W. miners’ acci-
dent relief fund is better; but its weak point is
that it only makes provision for the miner who
goes under through accident, leaving to his misery
the equally deserving and equally helpless miner
whom “ miners’ consumption ” or lead-poisoning
has knocked out. The ideal fund will save both
lots from depending entirely upon their wives’
wash-tubs. !
THE NAVEE BUSINESS.
SIR JOHN FORREST: “Here! Come on! —stick your
head into this! ”
Mr. Bagnet, in Dickens’ “Bleak House,”
when asked for advice, used to turn to his wife
and say, ‘' Tell them what my opinion is, old
girl.” Attorney-General Gordon, of S.A., is
Premier Jenkins’ old girl. Gordon even comes
over to the Premiers’ Conference in Sydney,
bringing Jenkins’ opinions along with him.
S.A. Government has studied frugalities
to the extent of making one of its shorthand
clerks do the secretarial work of the big Railways
Royal Commission He has to attend to his
ordinary duties as well and to write up in his
spare time. The Ministry objected that outside
reporters charged too much for this kind of work..
The glowing accounts given in Melb.
Argus of the conversion of whilom horizon-fenced
sheep-runs in the Western District into aggrega-
tions of tenant dairy farms, should burn into the
sluggish Victorian brain like a hot poker the fact
that the second stage in that chronic general
paralysis of old nations, landlordism, has been
reached.
B >Aftfer all the vast sums of loan money that
have been poured out in the “permanent and
reproductive work ’’ of improving the entrances to
N.S.W. northern rivers, it is officially reported
than both the Clarence and Hastings bars are in a
worse condition than before the permanent and
reproductive expenditure commenced. More of
cur blessed assets gone astray!
Dry Dog Reid is going to deliver a series
of Foreign-trade addresses in Tasmania during
May. Doubtless he is going to explain at last
why he protected sugar, jam, biscuits, wine,
beer, cigars, tobacco, Foreign-trade newspapers,
and all the other things while he was Freetrade
Premier of N.S.W., and why he preached a creed
which he always found too dirty to practise.
The N.S.W. importing interest is getting
up a special magazine to plead for the freetrade
cause at the Federal elections. Mr. Spruce Myth
is to write an article (on the “Philosophy of
Freetrade”), Mr. M'Millan (on the “Texture of
Freetrade”), Mr. George Reid (on “the Humors
of Freetrade”). Mr. Robert Reid, it is under-
stood, will contribute a disquisition on “Freetrade
in Practice—with some Hints on Invoices.”
A correspondent from W. A. :
There is no Crown land within 50 miles of Perth except
small pieces on timber concessions among the Darling
Hills, and they cannot be got until expiration of timber
lease. There is plenty of private land in big estates to be
got at a fearfully high price. People in the east and
elsewhere should be warned against those rapacious land
sharks who have grabbed all the good spots about Perth,
and want to sell at a splendid profit.
The same curse, East and West—the landlord.
N.S.W. Arbitration Court is gradually
getting up with arrears ; the excellent plan of
encouraging employers and employed to come to
a voluntary agreement and then register it before
the court, has been responsible for many happy
settlements. Coal-miners, hairdressers, bread-
carters, restaurant employees, undertakers’
assistants, butchers and many other trades have
received substantial advantages from the court.
Westralian Worker lias fallen foul of
Labor member Johnson, and the language on both
sides has been free and numerous. Finally, John-
son, his vocabulary giving out, plaintively asked
the local Labor party for protection. There is a
big breach between two sections of the Labor
movement in Westralia, and it is probable that
the Labor party will be engaged in internecine
conflict when the general elections happen along.
Thomas Bent begins to weaken on his
policy of cursing the Victorian railways into
better order. When he took hold he was going
to put a prompt stop to late trains; also, the
speed was to be accelerated quicker than immedi-
ately. T’other day an inquisitive reporter asked
him when he thought of tackling this latter job.
For a moment he glared with his accustomed
vigor as though he would shift the universe in one
whirling blast —then he mopped his forehead
wearily, and said, “That’ll have to wait till Tait
comes.” Poor Tait! Pretty near all Sheol is
waiting till Tait comes.
Sydney merchants have proposed a
scheme of a “commercial board” to decide,
in a nice, quiet, friendly way, questions
that arise between fraudulent importers and
the customs. Why not extend the idea and
let the same board adjudicate in a nice, quiet
friendly way between the importer and his
embezzling clerk ?
Sydney daily papers are very hostile
to the proposal that industrial legislation
should be under Federal control. There is
the awful possibility to be faced of encoun-
tering, under such a system, a Minister
like C. C. Kingston, who might hale a
newspaper proprietary before the low,
common police court for keeping an insani-
tary- factory or for sweating. In the State
administration of laws, the “influence” of
the rich goes a long way; it doesn’t seem to
be able to move things a yard in Federal
administration.
How little Protection Australia has
got as yet, and how much it needs a
M‘Kinley tariff! A railway engine costs
about £4OOO ; of which £2400 goes for labor,
£l6OO for raw material. Very little of the
£2400 and just about none of the £l6OO is
spent here, most of the material being
imported ready made up; e.g., boiler plates,
copper plates, steel and iron sheets, bars and
angles, brass tubes, tyres, centres, axles,
Westinghouse brakes. Even the paint and
varnish are often imported. Australia
merely puts the thing together—and does
not always do that. Yet the raw material is all
at hand ; efficient Protection would mean the
employment of ten men for every one at present
engaged.
“ Jay bell ” : The late T. J. Byrnes at the
height of his political career failed to rally such
large and interested audiences as those which
have met Kingston at each of his stopping-places
throughout Queensland. Everywhere the interest
displayed in “ the large man from Adelaide” was
enormous. Kingston’s short, pithy sentences
soak well into the memory ; and remain there long
after the caretaker has turned the gas out and
growled at the lateness of the hour. Neither
Griffith nor M‘llwraith in his best days stormed
Queensland as Kingston has done.
Canada closes its financial year with a
surplus of £2,670,000, and pays off part of its
public debt. And the record for Australia’s last
financial year was an aggregate deficit of over
£1,000,000 after using about £2,000,000 of loan
money as revenue. The fact that in Australia
the States build their own railways doesn’t affect
the comparison, for all the railway-building money
was borrowed in addition. And the drought
doesn’t affect it, for this sort of thing was going
on long before there was any drought. How does
the high Protective system of Canada show here
against the half-hearted semi-revenue-tariffism of
Australia ?
THE KNOCKING AT THE DOOR.
“Many members of the Council feel that the House cannot long retain its old character under the new
Constitution.”— Melb. news item.
THE LEG. COUNCIL: “He may be only knocking, but it sounds dreadfully like an attempt to
break in.”
When it closes an hotel, Maoriland doesn’t
compensate the owner; but another claimant for
compensation has arisen—the local Council, which
fets the license fees. But that ought to be easy.
f, as is alleged, it makes hardly any difference to
the total consumption whether there are 40 pubs
or 50, and if by the closing of some pubs the
others’ trade is thus improved, the obviously fair
and proper thing to do is to put up these other
pubs’ license fees.
Legitimation of children born out of wed-
lock by the subsequent marriage of their parents,
a humane principle which has for ages found a
place in the laws of all Christendom except
England, has at length found its way in a slightly
maimed form on to the Victorian statute-book.
Persons interested, whose children were bom be-
fore the Act was passed, will do well to note that
they have only six months in which to take
advantage of its provisions.
Now that the Victorian Government has
ordered the railway employees to sever their con-
nection with the Trades Hall, and the employees
have declined to do so, the Victorian Government
has a large problem before it. It can’t make the
men leave the Trades Hall; and it can’t sack the
whole body of railway men for not doing so ; and
it can’t leave things alone without great loss of
dignity. Probably this is another problem that
will be left over till new Commissioner Tait
arrives.
The news from the East is that Japan feels
very sore over the recent Australian and American
alien-exclusion laws. “It has been suggested to
retaliate by shutting out of Japan citizens of those
countries which will not admit the Japanese.”
Well, if it will make him feel any better the Jap
ought to be told that a little thing like that won’t
wound our precious dignity a bit. What Japan
does with Japan is Japan’s own business, not
Australia’s; what Australia does with Australia
is Australia’s own business, not Japan’s.
Stephen Barker proposes to petition
against Robert Reid’s election as an alleged
Senator. The law says clearly that no man,
while sitting in a State Parliament, is eligible for
election to the Commonwealth Legislature. That
law, if honestly administered, clearly rules out
Robert Reid who was elected, and Peacock who
came second. Barker, who icas eligible, came
third, so Barker naturally claims the seat as the
only qualified candidate, and it is difficult to see
any earthly reason why he shouldn’t have it.
Justice Cohen (N.S.W.) objected to take
a case the other day on the ground that he
was interested as a trustee on one of the
sides. He pointed out that on one occa-
sion the Lord Chancellor gave a decision in
an estate of which he was, unknowingly, a
trustee, and on appeal the House of Lords ruled
the judgment could not stand. In this connection,
should guinea-pig Cabinet Ministers rise from the
directors’ table of a private insurance co. or pri-
vate banking co. and take part in Parliament in
determining whether there is to be a State Bank
or State Insurance Department ?
Premier See, of N.S.W., after dinner
(also, by the way, after Waddell)
The man who didn’t borrow when he had plenty of
assets to cover the borrowing was not a commercial man
to his way of thinking.
Depends. If John pawned a ship to back a horse
that didn’t win the Cup, he wouldn’t be anything
of a commercial man to speak of. Or even if John
pawned a ship to pay an instalment on another ship,
and if he didn t make those ships work off the
loan, he would presently find himself without any
ship at all. Anyhow, John’s theory (for political
consumption only) that a good commercial man is
known by the encumbrances he keeps, and that he
is open to suspicion if his assets haven’t a bill of
sale oyer them, is not the theory that he regulates
his private business by.
The importer seems to be the most
unanimous and unscrupulous lie, swindle, fraud
and steal in all Australasia. The Shoddy party
in the Representatives urged that goods coming,
say, from Manchester via London should pay
duty only on their value at Manchester —not on
their value when leaving London with the cost of
freight to London and re packing there added to
the original price. On this point the importer
promptly proceeded to be a liar and a swindler as
usual. In the end he became so outrageous that he
bega,n to claim that out of £6O, value of goods when
leaving London, £4O should be deducted for the
cost of bringing the goods from, say, Manchester to
London, and that the value of the goods on leaving
Manchester (the value on which duty was to be
paid) was only £2O. Then Kingston’s too-patient
Department began to move, and some more emi-
nently respectable and Christian firms are likely
to undergo “persecution.”
The tale of a lost politician :
Outtrim, ex-M.L.A. for Maryborough (Vic.), after
gorging on the loaves and fishes for about 17 years in
Parliament, had the hardest kind of luck in the end.
When there was talk of attacking the Peacock Government
two men were mentioned as likely to lead the attack;
Irvine and Outtrim. Now Outtrim had held office in
three Governments, but never as Premier, and probably
wishing to crown his career with that office, he refused
to serve under Irvine. But he had something up his
sleeve. Outtrim’s idea, it is said, was, when Irvine had
got his vote of want of confidence under way, to move an
amendment which would draw votes from both sides and
be carried. Then he had a reasonable hope of being sent
for and obtaining the coveted Premiership, and of being
called upon to act the part of the Strong Man of Politics
since usurped by Irvine. But anticmating (reasonably
enough) a long debate he left the chamber
to take a look down the street, and when he came back
the debate was over and his chance was gone. Irvine
carried his motion, was sent for, and the rest is known.
Had Outtrim chosen to serve under Irvine, in the attack
on Peacock, he would have received a portfolio, sub-
scribed to the Reform policy, become a shining light of
Kyabramapootraism, and have won his seat for Mary-
borough triumphantly. But, as things were, he had, of
course, to oppose the Irvine policy, and he therefore lost
his seat to new man Field, and with the revision of
electorates consequent on the reduction of members it is
doubtful if he will ever recover it. And now he practices
auctioneering again at Maryborough, and meditates, on
the ingratitude of the railway station and other institu-
tions which he helped to rear in Maryborough with public
money.
THE UNBORN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah God ! for those who are coming-,
The millions who yet must be !
Thine Earth like a hive has been humming
So long with anxiety.
Such a lot of confusion and trouble,
Thousands so poor and unfed . . .
They are coming to starve on the stubble
Where hosts of the ages are dead !
R. CRAWFORD.


When
you
require
a PIANO-
Remember
They carry the
Hall mark of
Public
Approval.
PALING’S
PIANOS
The
Prices
are
Eight.
Art as
6000 as
COLD.
Good Tone
Good Touch
Good Workmanship
Ahead of
ALL OTHERS
Call or
Write for
CATALOGUES,
Paling’S
• Stock also
VIOLINS
CORNETS
BANJOS
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
AUTOHARPS
CONCERTINAS
ACCORDEONS
In
fact
EVERY KNOWN
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT.
BAND
INSTRUMENTS
OE ALL KINDS.
STRINGS and EITTINGS
If you do not see the instrument you
require enumerated above, Call
or Write to us; we will gladly
show you our immense stock, or
forward CATALOGUES EREE
W. N. PALIN6 *C° L TP 338
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
Brisbane
Newcastle
The old whaler Chance, made historical
by Bullen’s “Cruise of the Cachalot,” and which
has been lying at the Bluff (Maoriland) for many
years, is to be broken up. The old ruin is half
covered with sand, and has long been very much
in the road.
CONSUMPTION
VERSUS
VITADATIO
Another Victory for the Great Herbal Remedy.
READ MR. RUDDOCK’S TESTIMONY,
192 Elizabeth-street, North Richmond,
Melbourne, April 22nd, 1901.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me very great pleasure to let you
know what Webber’s VITADATIO has done for me. Two
years ago last January I was brought home to my wife
very ill; a very peculiar feeling came over me, which
caused me to become quite helpless. My wife sent for a
doctor ;he ordered me to be painted with iodine. This
was done for seven weeks, and he (the doctor) then
ordered me to the Alfred Hospital. After being there
for two months, the doctor sent me home, stating that I
was too weak to go under an operation, and said that I
must go for a trip in the country. I did so, and returned
home slightly better; but after a few days. I became
much worse with pneumonia, and after suffering six
months between life and death it was decided that I
should go to the Sanatorium for Consumptives at Echuca.
My wife interviewed the' lady secretary of the Sanatorium,
stationed, at Kesv, and, after examination by the doctors
they pronounced me a fit patient for that institution, as
I was full of consumption, but that I could not get in
for a fortnight, as there would not be a vacant bed till
then. At this time, Mr. Campbell, grocer and wood' and
coal merchant of Vere and Nicholson-streets, Abbotsford,
and now of Fairfield, urged me very strongly to try VITA-
DATIO, which I did. The first bottle upset me very
much, but by the time I had finished the second bottle I
was gat out of bed, and on taking the third bottle
I felt so improved that I decided not to go to the Echuca
Sanatorium. My wife took a message to the Secretary
to that effect. I continued with VITADATIO, and after
taking nine bottles I was able to go to work, so I called on
Mr. Wall bridge, .carrier, Lincoln-street, North Richmond
(my last employer) and started at once, and have been
there ever since. Ido very heavy work delivering coal.
I feel strong and healthy, and can truthfully say that
VITADATIO has saved my life, and the least I can do is
to hand you this testimonial. It is one year and eight
months since I took the last bottle of VITADATIO. I
have livqd in this locality for many years and am well
known. ' l will give further information to anyone calling
at my above address as regards my illness and cure by
VITADATIO, and you can refer to any of the under-
mentioned names, who are quite prepared to substantiate
my statement.—Yours faithfully,
THOMAS O. RUDDOCK.
E. Ruddock, 28 St. Phillip-street, Abbotsford.
A. Starr, Varian and Hunter-streets, Abbotsford.
Samuel Eadley Hambleton, Bootmaker, 382 Smith-street,
Collingwood.
Alex. C. Kennedy, Family Grocer (45 years’ standing),
390 Drummond-street, Carlton.
J. Campbell, Baatins-street, near Fairfield Station.
Tiios. Wallbridge, 38 Lincoln-street, Richmond.
For further particulars,
■S. A. PALMER,
184: Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Joseph Kirton, who gives up his thankless
honorary job in the Vic. Iceberg Ministry to earn
a few pounds a week as chairman of the Ballarat
Water Commission, is not likely to remain in Vic.
politics much longer. Joe entered Parliament in
the same year as Peacock (1889), and was at first
supposed to be the bigger man of the two; but
Peacock became a Minister in his second year in
Eolitics, and out of his 14 years in the Assembly
e spent nine in office, while Kirton was left in
the cold until, a very few months back, Irvine took
him in as a legislative makeweight without salary.
He hasn’t found politics profitable, still he comes
away with the title of “Hon.” and a free railway
pass.
A CURIOUS MISTAKE.
DESPITE the advanced teachings of The
Bulletin, many of its readers are like the
old woman who only listened to one side of an
argument, because she could make up her mind
easier. Now don’t be like the old woman, and
make the curious mistake of thinking that,
because Queensland is smaller than the Southern
States, she cannot compete successfully with
them. But before making up your mind, write
to Ohakles Gilbert, the leading Cash Tailor,
Brisbane, for patterns of New Winter Suitings
(including a special line of soft twill finish pure
Indigo Blue Serge at 50s.—the suit to measure,
carriage paid) and Self - Measurement Forms.
Then compare the values. You will think
differently.
Do You
Wear a
Truss?
Denver's Elastic Truss.
‘ IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture.
PRICES : 17/6 Single ; 25/- Double
Send Measure and P.O. Order.
DENYER BROS
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Opp. Hunter St.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
Missing Friends.
IF MB. DAVID LUMGAIR, only son of the
late ROBERT LUMGAIR, Manufacturer,
Arbroath, Scotland, is still living, and will
apply to MESSRS. BLAKE AND RIGGALL,
Solicitors, 120 William Street, Melbourne, he
will hear of something to his advantage, or if
anyone can give evidence of his death they will
receive a reward on applying to the said
MESSRS. BLAKE AND RIGGALL. It is
believed that MR. DAVID LUMGAIR may
have adopted and used the surname of his
Mother, and have passed as MR. DAVID
CRICHTON.
THE
CALLAGHAN
COLLARETTE
SHOE
Post
and
Duty
Free
13/6
FOR LADIES.
We Sell Good Shoes Only.
Ladies’ Fine American Glace Kid Lace or Button
Shoe, with up-to-date, stylish toe-cap of
patent leather, and having new-fashioned
collarette, as shown in engraving.
a
'i
12/11
POST AND DUTY FREE,
13/6
W.A. excepted.
CALLAGHAN BOOTS or SHOES can be EXCHANGED if not correct,
as we wish DISTANT Customers to be as pleased as those in town.
Your Money RETURNED If you are not satisfied with the Shoes.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.


Banking. Public Companies, &&
Upon - all - Classes - of
Se cur ity. „ M
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
' oxr.s.-w.
(Dont deplete o.^|.Co-,Etd-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
rtA CASTLEREAGH ST. f 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
-t HR-
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
TOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robirtb
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
file Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- ' Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Cannt. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ... £100,090
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 TOO ... £350.000
The
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 176,239
RESER VE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,000
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting (Jompg.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•pUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
13 Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
The savings bank
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
Properties ; and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yearlv.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4£ per cent, for 31J years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-GeneraL
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Esq.
Managers Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M’Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farouhar J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
* 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital ... •• £V>00J)00
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP 1.90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £10,49.4 16 9
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage*
No. 56 ACETYLENE GAS Catalogue
iP
a the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything- in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Cas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Slocks of the
Rest
Carbide
of* Calcium
Quotations on application.
J«m» MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
KT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First-Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 13th MAY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety , and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about 22nd MAY,
AFRIC, SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 27 0 0
25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker & C°’s t ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
3XT
[ 3XT E
via
San Francisco,
California.
FASTEST AND BEST
ROUTE
TO
GLAND,
Via America and Canada*
Bank of Neiv South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. ... •.. 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund 1,300,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,300,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Norm and MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Senator Jambs Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.LC.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at-
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
J- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
E N
4 VoroLixieL /lights
//Ceaitlvg Jnfhnts
TRY
Srhe
• JBesL
FOOD
Refuse a// Z/n/faf/ons
Sallying. Strengthening Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible. Nourishing
AGfZVft POP SYDZZfY
SAYfPS AlLPOfir 6t POTTfA
HDGES FOOD MILLS LONDON.E*c
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models
£2.10 t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
' Machines Half Usual Prices.
1 Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2£d. Stamp. Address Dept 3<sii
Mead Cycle Co.
Chicago,
U.S.A.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin* writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS I
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA )
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIC CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
MA.Y 18.
The Most Popular Steamer on
the Pacific,
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
JUNE 15. JULY 13. AUGUST 10.
Grand Excursion to the Rocky
Mountains of America, £6O, Includ-
ing all Expenses, for 63 Days and
a Trip of 15,000 Miles.
APPLY FOR PARTICULARS.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
flodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
Hygienic Water Filters
AVOID TYPHOID, ILL-HEALTH, and DISEASE
BY USING OUR
Hygienic Water Filters
With Rubber Attachment to fit any Top.
THE CHARCOAL AND SILEX
which these Filters contain is the very
Best Water Purifier Known to Scientists as it
Removes all Germs and other Impurities.
When ordering mention size of tap in use.
PRICE : LARGE
SIZE,
45.,
MEDIUM
SIZE,
2s.
?
POST
PAID.
Agents—VICTORIA: WARTZKI, FREEDMAN and CO.
GEELONG, VIC.
Agent—QUEENSLAND : ARTHUR BRAY,
92 EAGLE ST., BRISBANE.
Agent-TASMANIA WERTHEIMER, BENJAMIN and
ANDERSON, HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Agent—SOUTH AUSTRALIA : AUSTRALIAN TRADING
AGENCY, GENDERS BUILDING, ADELAIDE.
Agent—N.S.W. : ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS;
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON & CO., SYDNEY,
and all Hardware and Ironmongery Stores.
If not obtainable at your Storekeeper, send to
Sole Agent, Australasia,
J. LANDES, 108 Pitt St., Sydney.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHiPCO
(LIMITED). U '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports, *
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
s.s. Warrego
Friday, April 24.
S.S. Marloo
(from Melbourne)
Tuesday, April 28.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Oalrna
S.S.AAH n g a , Friday, April 24
b.S. Warrego, Sat., May 2.
Heat and Cheapest ltoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after th»
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on a i
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertain!!!!
on application at the Company's Office. Q
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P. AND o
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Exwe«
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Svdn™
. on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Porta
Main Steamere havepermfasion to call at Brindisi
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
A. GORDON WESOHE,
63 Pitt-sfcreet. Acting Agent,
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POUT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistant
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available lor return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
•Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply (o the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-gt., Sydney.
DR. j. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, beara oa
the Government Stamp the uauifl
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS d
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicinal should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely t? ®
most generally useful, to the exclusion ot a
others, I should say Chlohodynb. I never travo
without it, and its general applicability to 1
relief of a large number simple ailments to
its best recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL nair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each.
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern ol Hair an
write for any Information. Country Orders
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
g'W" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Srouk.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CRAIG «&*. AITKIN,
N.S.W. Barber’s'Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Bydney.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOJ>
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. — L.D . 1300 Collins St., Melboum


DO YOU WISH TO
BELIEVE IT ? . . .
Miss
Marion
W
H
Y
T
E
¥
5 Campbell Street, Darlinghurst,
Sydney, November 13th, 1902.
Dear Sirs Suffering constantly
from indigestion and rheumatism,
and hearing a good deal about the merits of
Scott’s Emulsion, I tested it. Before I had
finished the first bottle I felt considerably
better, and continuing the treatment for a
while both indigestion and rheumatism left
me entirely; it has undoubtedly improved
my general health as well. Faithfully yours,
(Signed) Miss Marion Whyte.
Messrs. Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent Street, Sydney.
DO YOU WISH TO BELIEVE
that there is relief and cure for indigestion
and rheumatism ? It is to be supposed that
you do, if you suffer from indigestion or
rheumatism. Or if any member of your
family is afflicted with these misfortunes. It
is perfectly safe to assume that you do wish
to believe it —believe, that is—that for
rheumatism and indigestion Scott’s Emulsion
is a cure. Has not one who has seen the cure
performed just proved it to you? It is nob
required, of course, to explain what rheu-
matism and indigestion are; if you have
them, you understand; but what you keenly
want to know i 3, the name of the remedy ,
Here it is :
SCOTT’S EMULSION, if *«.
matism or indigestion has attacked you or
anyone of your family, send at once for
Scott’s Emulsion. It acts rapidly, surely, and
steadily, until a cure is reached, and it begins
to act from the first dose. It has cured indi-
gestion and rheumatism in every quarter of
the globe, and it will do the same thing in
Australia. You have one precaution only to
take; and that Is to see that on the wrapper of
the bottle there is a picture of a man carrying
a big cod-fish ; if that cod-fish is not there, you
are not getting what we promise you—a cure !
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
and the -choicest children’s booklet of the
year, “A Bunch of Roses,” beautifully printed
in colors, by sending sd. to Scott and Bowne,
Ltd., 483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mention-
ing this paper. JUI chemists sell Scott’s
Emulsion.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f ne.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; F, E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HUMAN POISONS
Continuously being made in each of us! Their fatal nature!
Why they are made! The diseases they cause! How to
render them harmless! Their antidote!
Life is maintained by a process of waste and renewal. It is as essential to life that the tissues of
the body should continuously die as it is that they should be continuously renewed. To the un-
initiated this may sound strange, but any doctor or scientific man will tell you that the tissues of the
body are in a constant state of decay, and that the decayed or dead matter must be removed, or it will
accumulate and cause disease or death.
THE KIDNEYS AS CLEANSERS.
It is the function of the kidneys to remove, in the form of uric acid and urea, a large proportion
of the waste matter caused by the decay of the tissues. It is the failure of the kidneys to efficiently
remove uric acid and urea which causes people to suffer from Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia,
Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Anaemia, Gravel, Stone and Bladder Troubles. The
most common indication that the kidneys are not doing their work properly is
PAIN IN THE BACK.
A much surer test as to whether the kidneys are in thorough working order is an examination of the
urine. If some urine passed the first thing in the morning is placed in a bottle or covered glass, and
is allowed to stand for twenty-four hours, and it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment in
it, or if particles float about in it, then you may be sure that the action of the kidneys is impeded by
weakness or disease, and no time must be lost in restoring them to effective vigour, or uric acid
poisoning in some of its many forms will be the result. When you suffer from Rheumatism, Gout,
Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Anaemia, Gravel, Stone or Catarrh of the Bladder, you are
suffering from
URIC ACID POISONING.
But there is no reason why you should continue to suffer from any of these complaints. It is only
necessary to restore the kidneys to health, and all uric acid and other urinary poisons will be duly
expelled from the system in a natural manner. Since the discovery was made (about thirty years ago)
of the remarkable power possessed by
Warner’s Safe Cure
to cure all disorders of the kidneys and to restore to vigorous health those vital organs, any person
who now suffers from any form of disease caused by failure of the kidneys to efficiently perform their
office, suffers needlessly, because a course of Warner’s Safe Cure will speedily restore him or her to full
blooded health. Warner’s Safe Cure is an antidote to all poisons formed in the human body, owing
to incapable action of the kidneys or liver.
Mr. Murray L. Allen, of 4 Marsden Terrace, Clifford-street, Goulburn, writing on the last day of
the old year, says :—“I have had a bad attack of inflammation of the kidneys and calculus (stone),
both of which yielded to the power of Warner’s Safe Cure.”
Remember that pains in the back, painful passing of urine, inflammation of the bladder, torpid
liver, cloudy urine, pains in the back of the head and neck, rheumatic pains, swellings of the body,
all are Nature’s means of indicating to you that your kidneys are not able to do their work properly;
and also remember that Warner’s Safe Cure will speedily and permanently restore your lost health.
Warner’s Safe Pills are a gentle cathartic, and assist in accelerating the cure.
A treatise containing full particulars of Warner’s Safe Cure and the diseases it cures will be sent
post free on application to the Australasian Branch, H. H. Warner and Co. Ltd., Melbourne.
§
POOR MAN’S
FRIEND
HAS STOOP THE TEST OF TIME.
In over ioo years' world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) 1 /1 1 / 2 ,
2/9. 11 /-, and 22/- pots.
Dr.ROBERTS’ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1/154 ; 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by —
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Born 1766. Died 1534,
M ELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
The Police Paralysis.
In perfunctory, slipshod N.S.W., the land where
things slide, the State has almost given up pro-
fessing, so far at least as large centres of popula-
tion are concerned, to keep order and provide for
public safety. Sydney, for example, is carefully
mapped out in constabulary beats, each one repre-
senting about the largest possible area of ground
over which a solitary “cop” can even profess to
keep guard. But the force is shamefully under-
manned, and what force there is has to spend so
much of its time making up jury lists and elec-
toral rolls, acting as dancing dervish at the door
of the State Governor or some other functionary,
killing dogs, and “inspecting” this, that or the
other, that one policeman has often three beats
to look after—perhaps 20 miles of streets and lanes
—and he can’t inspect the whole of his district
even once in a night. The writer, who lives in a
main street in a rather thinly-populated suburb,
has only seen his local policeman three times in 18
months, and probably many others are similarly
situated. A policeman every half-year isn’t
‘ ‘ police protection ” —not by a long way. As a
result a great part of Sydney now hires private
watchmen to do the duty that the police can’t do.
The writer’s share of a private watchman costs
him £6 a year, and he is only one case in many.
Very soon it seems probable that the private
watchmen of Sydney will be a more formidable
force than the police—in other words, that a
private police force will grow up which will,
to a great extent, take over the job of the
overworked, under-manned, and generally para-
lysed State police force, and it seems a toss up, in
view of the habit of the State judicial func-
tionaries in the lower courts of fining murderous
ruffians in a small sum, if the privately-owned
petty judiciary doesn’t rise some day as the
natural complement of the privately-owned police
force. If the State Government isn’t ashamed of
haying brought an allegedly civilised city to this
pass, it must be because it is so ignorant of
civilisation that it doesn’t know the article, or the
absence of the article, when it sees it.
4
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is, everywhere.
“Euroa”: Met a young lady of my
acquaintance, t’other day, with her baby in her
arms. I stopped and asked how he was. “Oh !
he’s so bad,” she said; “the doctor lanced three
teeth out of his gums, and he’s not eight months
old yet. He was so bad last night, and the doctor
said he couldn’t live, so I had to rush with him
this morning and have his photo, taken.’’ The
baby ist still alive, and I’m wondering if she
regretted the expense.
At Poverty Point.
“ Ludo ” : The only Victorian country districts where
there is any money at present are Gippsland and the
Western district, and these have a monopoly just now of
travelling theatrical companies. Gippsland is a region
of bad roads and big distances, so the bulk of the
mummers drift westwards. There are so many of them,
and they travel so close on each other’s heels that, on the
whole, they are having a hard time. Some of them travel
by train, and get out to adjacent villages per cab or
brake ; but a lot have their own shaky turnouts, in which
the women folk doss at night, while tbe men sleep in the
anteroom of the hall. Without exception they denounce
the company that has preceded them as consisting of
shady, unprincipled rogues who should be in gaol for
obtaining money under false pretences; and they are
right. They all placard their show as being “free from
the faintest taint of vulgarity,” or as “ superior and re-
fined entertainments,” which are a set of breezy, healthy
lies. llow on earth is it that a travelling company can’t
fix up a night’s entertainment without references to
someone’s torn pants, or somebody sitting on a tack, or
twins, or such wretched pot-house drivel. It isn’t witty,
and it isn’t obscene ; it’s simply inane, soul-depressing
vulgarity. There is a big opening in the Vic. Western
district for a bright, clean, and wholesome variety co.,
which could play all the year round between Geelong and
Portland. Nearly every village has a handy little hall,
and a £lO or £l2 house could be generally depended on.
The first trip would be an up-hill fight, as the company
would have to meet the unsavory record of former
troupes ; but once it established a reputation its future
would be assured.
“ Cockaigne ” : London Gaiety is about to be pulled
down. The last musical comedy is running there. It is
called “ The Linkman,”'and is a musical hash of “The
Forty Thieves,” “ Little Jack Sheppard,” “ Monte Cristo,”
“ Ruy Bias,” “ Faust-up-to-Date,” “ Carmen-up-to-Data,”
“ Cinder-Ellen,” and sundries.
The late Rev. Chas. Clarke memorised his lecture,
“ Westminster Abbey,” thuslv, according to his own
account: —“ I went daily to the abbey and took in details
re the tombs of bygone heroes resting there. Then I dug
up their stories in the libraries and top-dressed with
elaborate and ornate language, after which I learnt tbe
day’s work parrotwise. Each day added more, until I’d
bagged the lot, and I have been letting it loose on the
public ever since with advantage to all parties.”
“ Melb.” : The most distinguished guest received by
the deceased Castella at St. Hubert’s was Sarah Bern-
hardt. She shot a Bengal tiger there—at least the event
was probably so described afterwards, but in reality she
popped off a pea rifle at a native bear on a gum tree.
‘ ‘ H.” : Shakspeare is supposed to have been inspired
to the composition of “ Midsummer Night’s Dream” by
seeing the masque given by Leicester to Queen Elizabeth,
at Kenilworth. Ambroise Thomas composed an absurd
French opera entitled “ Midsummer Night’s Dream ” re-
presenting Queen Elizabeth in love with Shakspeare.
Miss Nora Kerin, who takes the part of Titania in “ A
Midsummer Night’s Dream,” in Melbourne, is, like most
actresses (why ?), a profound disbeliever in woman’s
suffrage. She works hard at her profession, but is of
opinion that women in general should do no work,
except act as man’s guardian angels, and live noble,
womanly lives. Yet the manly Rosalind is her favorite
Shakspearian role. Miss Kerin’s alleged ignorance of
Australia is rather behind the times. She confesses to a
Melbourne interviewer that she even brought a store of
sewing cottons with her in case she should not be able to
get them here.
Titheradge and Henrietta Watson were engaged by the
Stage Society (London) to play the leading parts in
Ibsen’s play, “ When the Dead Awaken.” The drama
was produced on a Sunday evening, arid repeated at a
matinee next day, with the usual Ibsenic result. Accord-
ing to the furious Believers, it was an enthralling work
of luminous mystery and inspired vagueness, whilst de-
graded scoffers —like Carados of the Referee—found the
work of the Norwegian genius to be “ not only distress-
ingly obscure, but deplorably mean as well.”
Dear Bulletin.—The best that can be said for the Hill-
Adams creation, “ Tapu,” is that it is a gallant attempt
to idealise a hopeless subject. After seeing the piece, I
am convinced that the stage has no use for the Maori.
The Maori is an admirable creature in books ; and a nice
neighbor a long way off. He used to be a valiant animal
in battle, and a “ jolly good fellow ” at a cannibal feast.
But on the stage, he and his whares, his pahs, his kaingas,
mats, meres, moko, utu, tapu, and all the rest of it, aren’t
worth 4d. as operatic assets.—A. Spence.
“ Jongleur ” reflects thus :—History repeats itself. But
that is because it is growing old and garrulous, and is
losing the gift of originality. Poor Kate Vaughan, the
once worshipped skirt-dancer, is dead, and London, at
least, experienced something very like public mourn-
ing. Many centuries ago there died at Rome a most
beautiful woman, whose name was Pyrrha. She had
mixed in the highest and swiftest circles, but her move-
ments were of a kicking character. Had she lived in our
day, Society leaders would have alluded to her freezingly
as “ a person.” But she lived in the days of the Caesars,
and was virtually mistress of the world. When a Csesar
died it was fairly easy to find a successor. But
when Pyrrha died, the people felt as though the sun-
shine had gone out of their lives—“ and there came
a mist and a blinding rain, and the world was never
the same again.” And so it came to pass that poor,
dead Pyrrha was honored with a funeral such as no
Csesar ever had, and on her tomb the people inscribed
the simple but eloquent words “Saltavit; placuit” —
“She danced and delighted.” The woman who delights
us by her graceful evolutions on the stage may do us
more real good after all than the sour-faced frump who
thrust a ridiculous tract into our hands and bids us
“ Beware lest we are cut off in the height of our
iniquity i"
When “ Henry V.” was produced in Berlin, last
February, the irrepressible Kaiser Bill gave “ hints and
instructions regarding the staging of the play.” It is not
stated whether he made any improvement in the other
Bill’s text.
At last we are improving on the melodrama story of
the young man who gets wrongfully convicted of murder
at 9 o’clock, and escapes from penal servitude in the 3rd
act. An up-to-date melodrama introduces the hero in
the Ist act as an innocent convict, out on the loose with
a good-hearted burglar. This arrangement permits of
much more sorrow for the hero than he could possibly
suffer under the old system, which gave him a lot of hap-
piness at the outset. He starts with “ the bloodhounds
of the law ”on his track. Then the villain comes along
and begins to plot against him, so that he gets convicted
of a new murder, and has two sets of bloodhounds on his
track.
Somebody remarks that the Early Christians in “Sign
of the Cross ” sing at the top of their voices for the pur-
pose of escaping observation.
A number of new dramas adapted from Charles
Dickens’ novels are coming on for production in London.
Fresh versions of “The Old Curiosity Shop,” “Bleak
House ” and “ Oliver Twist ” have been arranged. Given
a well-chosen cast the best play from Dickens is “ Nicho-
las Nickleby,” wherein the schoolroom scene offers lots of
opportunities for smart stage management.
In Britain they are bound to swallow Barrett as “The
Silver King,” for he holds the local rights in the famous
melodrama. Hence the truthfulness of the local critic,
who remarks that “ While Mr. Wilson Barrett lives to
impersonate Wilfred Denver the piece will never lack
supporters.” Australia remembers the “ Silver King” as
a play which was seen to least advantage when Barrett
filled the name part.
Jingo dramatists, who twine their dull stories around a
tableau representing the invariable triumph of the British
Flag, might take a hint from the latest Parisian melo-
drama, “Les Derni6res Cartouches.” The author has
arranged his battle-scene so as to realise De Neuville's
famous picture—drawn from the alleged incident of The
Last Cartridges at the Battle of Sedan. Then the scene
goes on to show the hoisting of the white flq,g and the
surrender of the French. Thus far no English drama has
allowed the Enemy to win a battle. It is an article of
the Bulldog Creed that the enemy never did win a battle.
The directors of London’s boss music-hall, the Empire
Palace, Ltd., declared a dividend of 40 per cent, for year
1902. All the same, the principal theatrical managers in
the orthodox line of business are making good money.
Irving is said to be recovering his lost financial position,
and the plays in which Ellen Terry seemed to share his
popularity have not suffered through her retirement
from the co. Courtneidge sa.vs that Irving is a finer
actor than ever he was in his best characters, and a
greater theatrical personage by virtue of his high
mindedness and generosity. When he was performing at
Manchester, last year, he spoke publicly in glowing terms
of the “ Midsummer Night’s Dream ” production which
Courtneidge was running in opposition to his (Irving’s)
show.


An Ex-Mayor’s Opinion.
The opinion of a man is often useful, especially
when the man is well-known to be a master of the
subject upon which he speaks; then his state-
ments are more than mere opinions, they are
absolute facts. Such for instance is the statement
recently made by Mr. P. A. Phillips, ex-Mayor
of Auckland, who, after spending many useful
years in publio service in Maoriland, has now
come to permanently reside at Woollahra, Sydney.
His opinion of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills is
one founded upon the most substantial grounds,
for he himself has personally tested them, and
found them, to use his own words, of “inestimable
value.” _“ I suffered,” he says “from flatulence,
dyspepsia, and indigestion, together with their
usual train of horrors. In my search for a
remedy, I tried every known medicine, and I
must have taken a cart-load of drugs and patent
medicines. All of these were useless. None
removed the cause of my trouble, and it was only
when at last I took Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills that I found relief and a permanent cure
for my ailments.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a perfect blood purifier, and a positive
cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipation,
headaches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples and blotches, and for
female ailments. Put up in amber 'bottles and
the full name blown thereon.*
Wmchcombe, Carson, and Co., Ltd., write:
" Our country friends should bear in mind that there is
money in all sorts of furred skins (kangaroo, wallaby,
rabbit, opossum) during the winter months. So far this
season skins are scarce and the markets very high.
Opossum skins especially will be wanted in large quan-
tities, as the cold countries of Northern Europe, par-
ticularly Russia, are now educated to the use of Australian
furs, and have become good customers.’’*
w. N. Willis, M.L.A., as a land agent
needs no black-tracker to guide him through the
devious paths of the Land Acts. He fights all
his cases, and the harder the task the better he
like it, and wins all the time. 21 Bligh-street.*
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHiS.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE »d LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A forefront Victorian jockey attributes unusual
number of falls during four days of A. J.O. Autumn meet
to persistent fighting of lightweight riders for places on
the rails; they go for these blind-eyed, and without
remotest thought of possibilities in the way of aocidents.
What are the stipendiaries doing f
• • • •
■ The late F. F. Dakin, who followed that youth-
ful old sport, E. T. Barnard, as handicapper for the
V.R.0., was a frequent target for complaint when he first
took over the job. But Dakin outlived the animus of his
critics. He knew his business about as well as any man
on the Australian turf, and the few seeming blunders
which he committed proved to be quite harmless, as a
rule. A knowledge of individual sharpers and a keen eye
for their tactics are, of course, as essential to a handi-
capper’s success as the mere study of “ form,” in the
running and of book results. Dakin showed all the
necessary vigilance as regards what the horse-reporter
calls “a rod in pickle.” Also, he discriminated intelligently
between probable stayers and probable non-stayers. As
a tipster on the day of the race, the late P.F. was not
very deadly. A handicapper naturally gives lots of the
Candidates a chance, and is sceptical about good things.
The sanguine outside punter and the enthusiastic stable
connection are the only positivists in turf matters. Their
hopes mould their predictions. Men who deal with gee-
gee performances as a matter of business are disposed to
back anything rather than something—shake up the
names of the starters in a hat and back the one that
comes first to hand. The writer once got a successful
20 to 1 "tip” for the Caulfield Oup from J. F. Miller,
who publishes the Australian Racing Chronicle. It
came from information received in Miller’s domestic circle
by means of the dough-nut system. This system is free
from all suspicion of prejudice, or unconscious bias. The
name of each probable starter is written on a small piece
of paper, the paper is concealed in a lump of dough, and
all the dough-nuts are baked in a pan. The first one that
breaks open and reveals its paper is the “ tip.”
* • • *
A.J.C. stipendiary stewards, who were to have
abolished stiff running and crooked turf work generally,
have, beyond an occasional abortive inquiry, failed to
give the slightest indication of their existence, and the
things they were created to stop are as rampant as ever.
Their solitary move was when Chippy Norton, after
failing badly in Flying Handicap, Easter Monday, over
his favorite distance, 6 furlongs, came out on Wednesday
and mopped up Mile Welter, making rest of field appear
hacks. Someone picked up a fortune through the win.
A big commission was worked in Leger and paddock
simultaneously—the nag being backed from long prices
down to fives. Stewards “inquired exhaustively” and
expressed themselves “satisfied that there was something
wrong, but evidence wasn’t sufficiently clear to justify
punishment of the parties concerned.” So they might
just as well never have moved at all.
• * * •
Another scheme for manipulating scales was
disclosed on Newcastle course on Monday, and method
proved exactly on same lines as discoveries at Moorefield
and Warwick Farm, with the difference that while at two
places last named there were indications that the thing
hadn’t been worked for a long time—perhaps years—a
slabby-formed youth, provisioned for the day and thickly
coated with dirt and cobwebs, was caught red-handed
at Newcastle. Beyond the statement that he was “ a
man with a black moustache a bookmaker, perhaps—
nothing could be squeezed from the lathy one regarding
the identity of his employer, who placed him in position
previous midnight, with a stock of fruit and confec-
tionery. Holes in the floor were evidently of ancient
date, but 291 b. of lead, which the youth says he had to
attach to the scales and remove at understood signals,
was newly cast.
• • • *
In All-aged Stakes (one mile), at Rand wick,
last week, Emir redeemed his reputation as the best two-
vear-old this season, which his running in the Cham-
pagne Stakes had made doubtful. Newmarket Handicap
winner Ohantress lined up first choice. Sir Leonard was
next, and Emir only backed half-heartedly. He won
easily in particularly fast time—only a second behind
Australian record—l.3BJ. Emir will be hot during
winter for V.R.C. Derby, and already he has been backed
for that and Oup double. One Mo., at settling Thursday,
is said to have laid £lOOO to £4O to some juggins—won-
derful what a big crop of them there is in the racing
game. Emir, by Wallace from Emmie, was bred at St.
Albans, and, at that stud’s dispersal, went with his dam
to W. and F. Moses, of Combadello (N.S.W.). At last
year’s yearling sales he was bought by Mr. E. E. D.
Clarke, of Victoria, for 1000 gs., best part of which came
back when the colt appropriated V.R.C. Ascot Vale
Stakes.
• * • *
A. J.O. Plate (3m.), Saturday, demonstrated
that Bewitcher is a real good colt. The Victory,
upon whom odds of 7 to 2 were laid, just struggled home
barely a length best, with Bewitcher catching him every
stride. Only two named and Cyanide started, but latter
had enough four furlongs from home. Time (sm. 25sec.)
beat the limit fixed by 20sec., and is a record for this
event, mainly through the pace set by The Victory from
barrier rise to judge’s box. Success of Victorian reps, in
A. J.O. Plate is remarkable —it went their way in ’Bl and
’B4-5, and every year from ’B9 to ’97, and 1900 to present
year inclusive.
• • • •
Fatuousness of general public trying to pick
Winners when trainers are unable to size up relative
merits of their charges was well exemplified at A.J.C.
Autumn meeting. Bassini and Kilfera—stable chums
and by the same sire—started in two-year-old Maiden
Stakes, and while latter was a scorching favorite at 2 to 1,
tens were easily obtainable about former, yet Bassini
won easily, with Kilfera third. Another pair (Gratia and
Ilderim), from one stable, figured in Rous Handicap.
Gratia was well backed, but there was hardly a shilling
on Ilderim (Mo. yelped 100 to 4 right to the death). Yet
Ilderim won, while Gratia failed to make even a decent
showing.
* * • •
Cumberland Stakes (2m.) was contested by five.
Abundance (stale looking) was, despite close Leger finish,
made a warm first choice at 6 to 4. Great Scot, The
Victory, and Patronage, were in about equal demand (4
to I>—Patronage half a point longer than the others.
Pace was comparatively slow till a mile had been covered,
then Abundance went up to Great Scot and things
hummed. Locked together the two swept into the
straight clear of The Victory and Cyanide. Great Scot
forged to the front, while punishment caused Abundance
to swerve, and the money seemed Great Scot’s until The
Victory, coming down the centre* while Patronage,
Abundance, and Cyanide had gone towards the judge’s
box, finished with a paralysing rush and won handily.
Abundance and Cyanide were done to a turn—they
knocked up completely in the last furlong. The Victory’s
was the third successive success of Victorian reps, that
day.
• • • •
No single nag bar The Viotory appropriated more
than one race at recent A.J.C. meeting. Imported Ayr-
shire horse Orzil topped list of successful sires through
wins of Bassini, Kilfera, and Dumont. Grand Flaneur,
Grafton, Wallace, and The Admiral were represented by
two each. Victorian Lewis did best among jockeys ; he
had three winning mounts, while Frank Fielder, Phillips,
McOrimmon, A. Richardson, and Hickey credited them-
selves with two each.
* • • m
Spite of his failure previous Monday, F.J.A.
(initials generally supposed to be those of an ex-member,
now in London, of Williamson’s Comic Opera Co.) started
hot for Easter Stakes, and easily settled 11 others, in-
cluding Champagne Stakes winner, Kilfera, and Duke of
Grafton. F.J.A. belongs to Rupert Clarke, and was bred
at St. Albans ; he cost present owner llOgs. at yearling
sales. F.J.A. is by Wallace from the Robinson Crusoe
mare La Tosca, full sister to Wakeful’s dam. Though a
little ’un, he is a beauty, and prior to latest, which was
his first set weight success, had annexed several handi-
caps.
Remarkable in these times of so much distress
that recent four days’ meet at Kandwick attracted record
attendances—gate was £l7OO ahead of anything ever
previously known.
• • • •
Biggest dips into A.J.C. prize bag over last
meeting are: “J. Northern” (Street Arab) £2154, T.
Brown (Rose Petal) £1304, W. Clark (The Victory) £969,
and bookie W. Noake (Kilfera) £919.
• • • •
Victoria’s whack of the spoil at A.J.C. Autumn
meet is £lB4l, out of £14,277. This through Emir, F. J. A.,
and The Victory.
Apropos recent conspicuous successes of Ayr-
shire horse Orzil’s get. Interesting that first year he was
at the stud he served only eight mares, and three (Kil-
fera, Dumont, and Bassini) of the progeny were
trained—all these succeeded at recent A.J.C. meeting.
Trainer Duggan tells that pick of the foals had a leg
broken and was destroyed.
* • * *
Notable thing of A.J.C. Autumn week was
sale of Great Scot, for 2000g5., to a big Indian turfite
anxious to own a nag up to winning Viceroy’s Cup.
Great Scot looks the thing. He is a hardy, tough cus-
tomer who’ll stand heaps of work.
• • * •
Big Sydney Ikey concern—Tattersall’s—con-
tinues to flourish. In 10 years it has paid £14,000 off
a big mortgage, leaving £19,000 still due. Club’s invest-
ments aggregate £4500 (all in N.S.W. funded stock), and
bank balance is £l5OO.
• * • •
The latest aspirant to champion honors is the
Victorian-owned trotter Almont, who trotted two miles
in 4.36 2-5, at Epsom (Vic.), on Saturday, 11th. Almont
is closely related to the N.S.W. champion Fritz, being by
Rothschild-Prunella. The dam Prunella is full sister to
Fraulein, dam of Fritz. A cable has been sent to Christ-
church (M.L.) challenging the winner of the Ribbonwood-
Fritz match to meet Almont in a match at Melbourne.
Almont was bred by the late Henry Mace, at Christ-
church (M.L.), and was purchased for his Victorian
owners at the breaking-up sale, in Nov., 1902.
* • * •
Latest winner (Drummer) of richly endowed
Onkaparinga Steeple cost present owner something under
£4O. Drummer was bred by Mr. Wm. Crozier (who’ll get
£lOO on that account) near Mt. Gambier, S.A.
■•* * •
The money that went through the totalisa-
tor at Oakbank (S.A.), on Easter Monday totalled
£21,000 ; £2lOO had to come off this for com-
mission, the club taking 7b per cent, and the
Government, under the new Act, 2J. The balance pro-
vided the following useful dividends : £4l 19s. (Hurdle
Race), £3 25., £7 45., £lB 10s. (Great Eastern Steeple-
chase), £23 11s., £l2 18s., and £6 Is. A pound put blindly
on every horse that started would have meant a profit in
four races out of the seven, and on the whole day a profit
of nearly £3O 1
• • • •
Admitting that Newhaven can leap some, he
will have to tuck his hind legs very far under indeed to
maintain Fitzgerald Bros.’ boast that he will exceed by
an inch the best record at the Agricultural Show’s jump-
ing contest. Desmond, Strathmore, and Tancred, ridden
by M‘Gee, Grady, and Atkins, all cleared 6ft. sin., thereby
lowering the Society’s record. This will take some
getting over.
• * * •
Mrs. O. Elliot’s win of the ladies’ high jump at
the Agricultural Show on Skylark over 6ft., was probably
a record woman’s jump. Allowing for the difference in
the saddles, which is all against the lady lepper, it was
far superior to any made by the male ‘riders. Worth
noticing the firm, determined, tightly-compressed mouth
worn by all equestrienne jumpers, caused, probably, by
practising the firmness necessary to obtain complete
mastery over the noble animal and the cultivation of the
nerve necessary to take the big risk with equanimity.
Note for young men about to marry : Never contradict a
horsey damsel if there’s a riding-whip within easy reach 1
• * * *
Concerning Street Arab’s win of Sydney Cup.
Numbers of people backed him because he was 13th in
the race book, and race was run on 13th of the month in
a year the figures of which add up 13. Strangely enough,
first two numbers on Street Arab’s ticket (13037) in
Tatt.’s No. 2 sweep further emphasised the “ office.” No.
13 in the list (Rose Petal) won the other big thing (Don-
caster Handicap) of the meeting.
* • • *
White Australia up North ! At a recent meet-
ing of the Townsville Trotting Club nine of the licensed
jockeys petitioned the stewards to stop an aboriginal
boy from riding in one of the events, and threatened, in
the event of their request not being acceded to, to strike
and so make the meeting a frost. Luckily, those stewards
had a backbone somewhere, and not only put the pro-
testing ones outside on their brassy cheek, but, for that
meeting, disqualified them in a bunch, and successfully
filled their seats with amateur riders. If the alleged
“ white” person up North had as much healthy contempt
for the many-colored imported agony as he has for the
local nig. from whom he stole the land, White Australia
would be in reality a White Australia much sooner.
• • • •
Evidently there was something the matter with
The Victory when he got so badly beaten (twice) by Great
Scot, at the V.R.O. Autumn meeting. His trainer has
the distinction of having captured two Melbourne Cups
with horses—Patron and The Victory- -that didn’t possess
a 100 to 1 chance, judged by their form at a petty
suburban meeting a few days previous to the big
handicap.
• • * •
“T.T. ”: It is rumored in racing circles that
Simile, the riderless winner of the Sydney Cup, had a
ticket on himself in “ Tattersall’s ” sweep. Also that
when he reported himself at the weighing enclosure and
learned that the race had been awarded to Street Arab
he wept bitterly and solemnly swore to abjure the turf
and take to a hansom cab. Of course, this may be an ex-
aggeration.
* * * •
There’s real grit in the proposal of the Kensing-
ton Racecourse proprietary to introduce a high standard
of coursing. The ground has been laid out with a view
to comfort—the Plumpton being of well-turfed sand, not
injurious to the feet of the dogs, while the hares are
paddocked in a manner that requires no handling—and
altogether the cruel pastime is getting a big boom.
Since the present co. has taken the grounds over about
£30,000 has been spent in improvements, and an annual
rent of £9OO is shelled out of its coffers. ’Twould be far
better if such a co. were to purchase grounds of its own,
when all improvements would become an asset, and the
huge rent tax a thing not to be contended with.
• • * *
At Coolgardie, recently, Ali Khan bet that his
black camel Selim could beat Abdul Phaman’s brown
camel Hazoff over two miles for £5O, both owners
up. Both brutes were well-known fliers, and the
wagering was heavy and the excitement high. A
big crowd rolled up, and a good start was
effected by a multitude of swarthy swabs arming them-
selves with palings and giving each camel a sounding
smack on the rear when the starting signal was given.
To the great dismay of his backets Selim soon fell a long
way behind, and Hazoff had the game all to himself till
someone ran round the back of the course and threw a big
armful of camel fodder in front of him. Hazoff immedi-
ately flopped and remained munching till his rival had
got about 20 lengths in front. Then, by dint of much
whacking and insulting language, Hazoff was at last in-
duced to get a gait on him again, but he had a terrible
lot of ground to make up, and the case appeared hopeless
till Bagdad Damascus or some such noble Arabian, who
had bet against Selim, ran half-way down the course
and shouted out “Hooshta!" whereupon the smellful
animal at once hooshed. It took several minutes’ per-
suasion with a rail to get him going again, and by the
time he got fairly started Hazoff had scooped the pool.
• * • *
N.S.W. reps, for inter-State 8-oar race, to be
rowed over 2J miles of the Yarra, next month, leave for
Melbourne present week. Father of Victorian rowing,
George Upward, has devoted his holiday coaching the
visiting crew which, though light comparatively (the men
average 11.2) is a huge improvement on any put forward
for years. Work is now very even and faults in style
have nearly all gone. Great advancement has been
made in leg drive, while recovery is steady. Craft moves
very freely between strokes and a trial up to 38 per
minute found the eight equal to it. Coach’s tip is that,
when he delivers them, though they may not win, they’ll
give Victorians a torrid time all the way, which is more
than a N.S.W. crew has got within a big margin of doing
for many a day.
• • • •
In one of the Easter cricket matches at Adelaide,
a Southern District batsman was given not out when
clean bowled, on the square leg umpire pointing out
that the wicket-keeper had a portion of his body in front
of the wicket. The fielding team (a visiting XI. from
Broken Hill) took a good deal of convincing, more es-
pecially as the two batsmen happened to be the sons of
the two umpires (!), but Rule 42 was successfully upheld.
To make it still more curious, the bowled man, being a
deaf mute, naturally walked away when his stumps went
down, and had to be brought back almost by force.
• » • •
There is no cricketer in Australia who has met
with such adversity and bad fortune as Harry Trott.
One-time he was one of the best trundlers in the States,
but when at his zenith an unfortunate illness kept him an
invalid for a couple of years, and caused a carefully-put-
aside credit balance to rapidly diminish. That was a
prelude to a sequestrated estate, and those to whom a
trifle was owing let the matter drop. The ex-Australian
Eleven skipper’s trials were many—all his trophies of the
cricket field being disposed of to gain the simple neces-
saries of life; and if any athlete deserves a “benefit”
and a “ lift " from a sport-loving people it is Harry Trott.
• • * *
The star of this season’s cricket at Broken Hill
is 0. Wellington, who has an average of 167. Wellington
is a member of a well-known family of burly South Aus-
tralian cricketers—mostly parsons.
• * • •
“ Sprocket ” dives down into the misty past and
drags to light ancient records made on bone shakers,
liver jerkers, and other weird progenitors of the modern
bike, for comparison with the latest watch-breakers made
by century gears on banked tracks and pneumatic tyres.
On July 31, 1880, at Leicester (Eng.) one Phillips did a
quarter mile in 41 secs., and, as the old account has it,
“ started from a stool unassisted.” About the same date
J. Keen covered 6 miles at Cambridge University
Grounds in 14 mins. 42 secs. Aunger, at Adelaide,
recently did the same distance in 8 mins. 45 3-5 secs. In
1879 H. L. Cortis was declared champion of England up
to 50 miles, his records being for 1 mile, 2 mins. 42 2-5
secs. ; 4 miles, 11 mins. 53 secs. ; 25 miles, 1 hr. 26 mins.;
50 miles, 2 hrs. 56 mins. 54 4-5 secs. In 1883 the cham-
pionship of N.S.W. for 1 and 3 miles was held by
Lee, and for 10 miles by Bennett. In 1883 O. Hazel-
ton did a sensational mile and 30 yards at Melbourne in
2 mins. 43 4-5 secs., which was understood to have broken
all then previous records. Rolf won the six days’
championship of Australia in 1884 with 910 miles 11 laps
in 59 hours. There were good men Jin those days con-
sidering the awful jiggers they bestrode.
• • * •
The “injured racing cyclists’” sports meeting
in Melbourne recently realised but a paltry £22o—and
that is provided certain outstanding items are “realised.”
A few falls, together with a like number of heavy claims,
and the fund will be no more. Still, Victoria has done a
little. Where are the other States ? Every branch of
sport should be compelled to initiate a fund for the
benefit of injured athletes, and a percentage deducted
from the gross takings for such a purpose.
* * * m
The imported Major Taylor shook the Aus-
tralian dust off his feet last week, and left to fulfil Euro-
pean engagements. The colored flier certainly opened the
eyes of Australian riders, and taught them a few wrinkles;
but, considering that he has raked in well nigh £3OOO
during a four months’ sojourn, he hasn’t been under-
paid. Taylor, owing to his religious faith no doubt, con-
sidered ’twas best to run “ straight,” and, accordingly
he was always out after the boodle—something which
cannot be said of all the oversea visitors that have hap-
pened to afflict Australia.
• » * .
Major Taylor’s popularity was worth its weight
in gold to the cycling bodies of the various States, and
was the means of re-establishing many bodies whose finan-
cial position was sadly in need of a lift. The S.A body
profited to the extent of nearly £5OO ; and the amassed
shekels raked in by the various State leagues should be
spent on a general reconstruction of the racing tracks
Followers of the game like to see first-class riding, and
the riders need first-class paths on which to show their
speed ; so the promoters should see that the easily-
acquired cash is laid out in a satisfactory manner At
present Australia hasn’t got a decent track.
* * * •
When policeman McQuaker put up a punch
0t Ji 751 0' j° n “ Challenge ” punching machine
on the Sydney Show ground on Saturday, it was
considered a unique achievement; but a brother
bobby" named Hickey, a couple of days later
smote with such force that he lowered the record
by 101 b. Since such huge punching ability has been
revealed, there s not an offender against the law to be
seen on either of the “ cop’s ” beats, and altogether the
exhibition of such prowess has caused a falling-off in the
revenue. The only fly in the cops’ ointment is that one
Aulsebrook is reported to have afterwards smote the
machine to the tune of 12251b5.
• • • #
Of all Australian pugs, the most satisfactory
from a spectator’s standpoint, is Ned Cullen, of Prahran
I 1 ?-)'. T , he b ™t h erof heavy-weight Joe, he turns the
scale at about 9.7, and has been fighting in the ring las a
professional since he was 15. Accordingly, Ned is re-
garded as somewhat of a veteran while not vet 25
Though not in the first rank of his class, Cullen has put
up splendid fights with every man against whom he has
been His pluck, to quote Stephen Crane, would
throw a shadow as big as a cathedral. Cullen, literally
never knows when he is beaten, and the punishment he
takes in a single scrap would suffice to make the reputa-
a T t '* aB jj a ® c ° re of the newspaper champion pugs,
the United States. In his last fight with colored
• oak^ alker , Savral > he was knocked down 15 times
m t'he 20 rounds, and went to the boards five times in one
round. Nevertheless Cullen fought to the last with rhe
courage of a bull-ant. The writer veritably believes that
if he were matched against Jim Jeffries or Bob Fitz-
tS™™°"B’C l ‘ llen woul ? put up a fight that would make
the spectators roar in frenzy and damage the furniture.
Tim rSII 11 ® 7 tio , nal Spring Club Gumsucker
Tim Hegarty and Cockney Jessop (who acquired all his
bruising skill in this country) fought a fast cheerful
,T. d / fra P, llst week. Hegarty, showing’ flashes of
his okl-time cleverness, baffled the aggreslive Jesson
baffly at times. The ignorant onlookers hooted Hegarty’s
footwork—his side-stepping, baulking, ducking-whin
they should have applauded it, as it was highly sciential
and must count where points are given. “ Jesson used
short arm rights and lefts in ribs, and face occasSnaK
a 2? f ° u £. ht ln , f good deal. Punishment was slight
owing to size of gloves. Hegarty’s fist work wm S
throughout, and the last rounds were absolutely his & and
Jessop wasn t in the same street in point of skill! and yet
blunder® S ° P the vtr d ict —which was’a ghakly
.** • •
Practice of modern pugs, of shifting padding in
gloves, so that as little as possible is on the back
knuckles, of which Sydney Daily Telegraph screeched
so loudly, was never indulged in by Larrv FoW p ►
Jackson, Frank Slavin and co., for unless rh o ki ? eter
very straight, the bulge front kud back"f the’kruckf
breaks its force ; and, further, there’s always liahfihT ?
the wrist being hurt when a blow glances off of
the face or body. On this account Jackson °j
Enghsh to American gloves, padding being less iasn* 1
shifted in former than latter. 8 * less eas >ly
* • • *
Fi f te e n days before the season opened a trial
was made by Sydney Gun Club of quail instead of Le™
for shooting matches. But the innovation was a?ln 8
as the birds, although trapped from the
sparrow traps, either made only a feeble attTJm?
flight or ran along the ground ; so after a few score
been slaughtered, the unfortunate pigeons wi! •
to be butchered to make pseudo sportsmen’s
is a strange coincidence that the innovation was an
illegal act, and that no mention of it was made ! ft
great daily Suppress, as usual. Also, right Through he
close season there were hash-houses in Sydney at whieh
quad was always to be had at a slight advance on h»
regular menu rates. ance on the
* * * •
S.A. Football Association has had a lrm„
squabble with the Cricket Association (which controls th!
oval) as to terms, and a compromise agreed on is expressly
stated to be for one year only. The fact is that thlre is
no other central ground large enough for the game to be
played properly, and both sides would lose heavily if *
move were made to any outside ground. The SAP »
expects to wipe of! a small overdraft this season and
on better terms then-or do something
pera e. • , • ,
“W.H.W.” writes from Kalgoorlie “fie p ar
about contest between Barsly and Logan, drilling 17Ain in
20 minutes. Some four or five years ago Williams Cof iiT
Boidder mine) and Byfield (of y the Tad
match for £20—15 minutes drilling in solid diorite ntai
goorlie council’s quarry). Williams hammered his drill
down either 29 or 31 inches (I forget which) and Bvfie d
was three or four inches behind. This beats min in vn
minutes by a lump. 1 u
• • • •
Victoria (where there are at least twice as manv
bowling clubs as in any other State) for the first time on
record sent teams to N.S.W., S.A., and Tas. during Easter
week and, through spreading out too thin, buffered
defeat all round. N.S.W. won all three matches of thp
rub by 38, 7 and 13 ; and Saturday last Randwick and
Waverley Clubs combined tackled the visitors in a 6-rink
tussle, and gave them the biggest drubbing of all-win
ning with 40 to the good. Wheat State howlers won first
and third matches, and lost second. Tas. reps gathered
first and second and made a draw of third. Latest was
27th meeting between N.S.W. and Victoria, and first win
N.S.W. has scored in three years. Since initiation of
these contests in 1880, 27 have occurred, 17 of them
going Victoriawards.
• • • •
Of interest to all cyclists. The new Vulcanised
Dunlop Tyre is absolutely the finest procurable No
other tyre will give anything like the same wear, espe-
cially over rough country roads. Ask any cycle ao- en tto
show you a sample. Guaranteed for 12 months? Aus-
tralian output of these wonderful tyres now exceeds
16,000 a month—conclusive evidence of their worth.*
• * * *
There is still some encouragement to men in
Australia to cultivate the fine art of wielding an axe
Anyone who thinks there is no fine art about the business
should journey to Cataract, N.S.W., on June 23 when
the Grand Axemen’s Carnival will be in full blast. ’ There
are five events, and they are all champion events and
open to the world; and substantial prizes and elegant
trophies will be fiercely contested for. P. C. Gilday is
secretary, and entries, accompanied by fees, close with
Hickey Bros., Cataract P. 0., N.S.W., on June 13th, 1903.*
• * * *
The second generation of Jarvises is getting to
the front in S. Aus. cricket. About the most promising
of the young wicket-keeps is a son of A.H., who had such
remarkable flashes of brilliance in the same line and
travelled with a couple of English elevens
* * * *
Crack N.S.W. up-country performer Yum-Yum
has, since becoming the property of Mr. F. J. Mitchell
closed on 22 races, and in 18 of these had jockey Jordan
up.
* * * *
N.S.W. Minister for Lands Crick was a big
buyer at Autumn yearling sales t’other day ; he
gathered nine lots.
• • • •
“Kink”: A country racehorse (!) owner told
me the other day that the ownership of a couple of
neddies was worth a clear fiver a week to him. He enters
them for all the races in the district, in one or two
events, and, although he hasn’t much show except
in very poor company, he often gets his “ex’s” paid
him to run a bye, and at the same time gets the “ office”
as to what is going. So far he has only a “walk-over"
to his credit, after four years at the game, yet he clearly
lives on it somehow or other, having no other means of
support.


MAJOR TAYLOR
has gone and left behind him a reputation to be envied. He will be
remembered as an honest rider and a genuine sport. His choice of a
Open
Saturday
Afternoons
Massey-Harris Bicycle a
has also proved him to be an excellent judge, for on his MASSEY he won nearly £6OO.
We can supply you with the identical Hike that he used, and at a moderate price.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches In Every State. 357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
RED BIRD BICYCLES
i^-
NEW fIODELS,
1903:
These New Models for Ladies and Gentlemen are worthy of your special attention. They are built
expressly for Australian roads, and carry our guarantee for Strength, Lightness and Comfort.
You would do well to call and see for yourselves, or write for a Catalogue.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., Sydney.
GRAND AXEMAN’S CARNIVAL
TO BE HELD AT
CATARACT, NEW SOUTH WALES
on JUNE 23, 1303.
1. Six Days’ Contest, Cutting Cord Wood 4ft. long—All Wood to be Stacked.
Ist PRIZE, £lO CASH ; 2nd PRIZE, £6 ; ENTRY FEE, £1 Is.'
Gold Trophy presented by A. Saunders, Jeweller, Sydney.
2. Standing Blocks, 18in. Diameter.
Ist PRIZE, £5 AND TROPHY ; 2nd PRIZE, £2 ; ENTRY FEE, 10s.
3. Underband Chop, 18in. Logs.
Ist PRIZE, £5 and TROPHY ; 2nd PRIZE, £2; ENTRY FEE, 10s.
4. Single-handed Champion Sawing, 18in. Logs, 2 Cuts.
Ist PRIZE, £5 and TROPHY ; 2nd PRIZE, £2 ; ENTRY FEE, 10s.
5. Double-handed Champion Sawing, 18in. Logs, 2 Cuts.
Ist PRIZE, £7; 2nd PRIZE, £3 ; ENTRY FEE, 10s. ; Trophies, 2 Gold Medals.
ENTRIES, accompanied with Fee, close 13th JUNE, 1903, with HICKEY BROS., CATARACT P. 0., N.S.W.
No Entry accepted unless Fee is enclosed.
All are Champion Contests, and are open to the World.
winner
to each competitor who completes
and to 2nd man, £4 ss.
P. C. GILDAY y Secretary.
Why don’t men go to church? Because
they are sick of what Carlyle terms the Hebrew
old clothes.
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
The report of Victoria’s Parliamentary
Committee on the alleged cures of inebriety by the
various “ cure ” institutions is out. It is neither
enthusiastic nor respectful. Of the four institu-
tions which submitted themselves for approval,
two declined to divulge their particular specific;
the third breathed its information into the com-
mittee’s ear in strict confidence; the
fourth, run by an Adelaide clergyman, didn t go
in for any particular nostrum, but relied on moral
suasion. The three ‘‘ specific” dosers all admitted
having produced amazing results, and brought
forward any number of grateful “cures, who
were ready to vouch for the efficacy of this or
that method. But the committee could get no
evidence to show that the cures were in any way
permanent, and there appears to have been
often a lack of evidence as to how lost
the saved drunk had been. Also, the committee
had no chance to inspect those saved drunks who
had become lost again, or to find out what per-
centage was lost again. Practically the only
things the committee was quite sure about when
all was over were these :
1. That provision should be made for registration,
under Government supervision, of all institutions for the
treatment of inebriety. _
2. That all such institutions must be placed under Go-
vernment supervision and inspection. .
3. That a special place of confinement and treatment
must be provided for criminal inebriates, where offences
may be directly traced to inebriety, or where ground for
detention is habitual drunkenness itself.
4. That a Government institution under a board of con-
trol be established in some locality suitable for isolation,
classification, and opportunity for employment, to which
inebriates can be sent voluntarily or compulsorily, in
which different methods of treatment may be adopted.
5. That a Bill be immediately introduced by the Go-
vernment determining the conditions under which in-
ebriates can be dealt with on the lines of the New South
Wales measure of September, 1900, and making provision
for the foregoing recommendations.
SHAKESPEARIAN THERAPEUTICS. it
anything can “ minister unto a mind diseased ’ it
is assuredly Hunyadi Janos, which will “ cleanse
the stuff’d bosom of the perilous stuff which
weighs upon the heart.” It is an arsenal of
therapeutics, being speedy, sure, and gentle.*
Apropos “Ooloo'” tales of horror (B.
14/3/’O3). At Sydney Benevolent Asylum, many
years ago, a doctor operating on a pauper patient
sewed up a bull-dog forceps and some other
luggage in the patient. The woman died.
N.S.W. Arbitration Court’s next big case
will be in connection with the contract conditions
and rates of pay of Broken Hill miners. Present
terms date from the last big general strike, or
lock-out, or whatever it was, in 1892 ; for 11 years
the men have chafed under them, but the unions
have at no time felt strong enough to kick. As
soon as the Arbitration Court was created they
started on their claims; but it was probably
a stroke of very good luck for them that their
case was hung up for 12 months, otherwise it
might have been dealt with at the bottom of a
very bad slump in the silver-lead mining business.
At Maryborough (Q.) the President of the
Chamber of Commerce hysterically declared, the
other day, that “ no man in Austria, Germany, or
France had exercised the autocratic powers which
Mr. Kingston had exercised.” It is curious how
frantic these importers get. Kingston never
hanged, or imprisoned, or fined in as much as one
penny a single importer on his own responsibility;
m fact, the alleged autocrat never did anything
to importers on his own responsibility beyond
refusing to suppress his knowledge of their
swindles. Every one of them who fell in did so
because he couldn’t convince a magistrate or a
judge and jury (with none of whom Kingston
had anything to do), that he wasn’t a degraded
swindler and a rogue. A French autocrat of
the Napoleon I. type would have gaoled some of
these importers for life without trial.
fl
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,’’ “»1
situated at 60 KINO STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — OEO. W. ELLIS.
HAND-IN-HAND
forEIGHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar*
WILLIAMS* Traveller's Shaving Stick.
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
If youdoubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you why.
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glas-
tonbury, Conn., U.S.A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SHARPSHOOTINg
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARKI
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER'S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
Premier John See, having announced that
E. C. V. Broughton and Eden George, two de-
fected Ministerialists, before their desertion wished
him to put them in the Upper House, the former
replied :
Wit hregard to my appointment to the Upper House, I
challenge the Premier to produce any letter from me in
support of hia statement.
Which, for a man who is an M.P. and a land
agent, is very tame indeed. Why doesn’t Mr.
Broughton also indignantly challenge Mr. See to
produce his verbal application for the job.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Parson Dill-Macky claims the result of the
Tamworth election as a victory for his sectarian
organisation, which gives a slight air of credibility
to the yarn that Opposition candidate Nankervis
was forced out of the contest because he wouldn’t
run on sectarian lines, and that Garland got the
support of the strife-mongers by pledging himself
to help on their policy of bigotry and public
disturbance. Garland, if he is wise, will promptly
repudiate the Dill-Macky patronage—that is to
say, if he can do so without too much damage to
the immortal truth.
Sydney D.T. daily approximates more
closely to the Tory Argus policy. April 17 it
hinted at a disfranchisement of the public servants
on the lines of the recent Victorian measure,
saying:
In New South Wales there is a section of the people
about as large as the whole population of Tasmania
directly dependent on the public exchequer for a liveli-
hood. And all the men and women so circumstanced
have votes, for which the Government charged with the
management of the finances has to cater the same as for
those of other electors. No one can doubt that this is a
serious position for any State to be placed in, and as the
proportion of Government employees and Government
dependents of one kind and another is on the increase,
the situation arising out of it threatens to soon furnish,
if it has not done so already, one of the most perplexing
problems connected with the politics of the State. This
vast, compact, and now organised army of voters has its
first interest in keeping up public expenditure to the
highest limit, for therein lies the prosperity of their
trade.
Nowadays, when one S. Australian Minis-
ter goes out visiting at Cup time the man who
stays at home has to be a lot of things. Butler,
who has a farm in the lower north to look after, has
this month been also acting Premier, Treasurer,
Minister of Health, Minister for the Northern
Territory, Chief Secretary, and Minister of
Lands; and Fisher, a country storekeeper, is
Attorney-General, Minister of Education, Com-
missioner of Public Works and Minister of In-
dustry.
Mr. W. R. DUNLOP, Wolf Creek, Ala.,
writes :
“ An attack of measles had left my son with the MOST
AGGRAVATING COUGH I EVER HEARO. His mother
began giving him Jayne’s Expectorant. By the time he
had taken one bottle and started on the second HE
WAS ENTIRELY CURED.”*
Melbourne Age, with its new fad for inter-
viewing and publishing the opinions of all manner
of hardshell Tories, gets some curious items of
alleged information. Here is one :
I think that much of the depopulation is caused by the
interference in trade and industry by Parliament. By
this I mean particularly certain features of the Factories
Acts. We know that large numbers of young men have
been positively sent away by these Acts. They were
thrown out of work, and there was nothing for them to
do but to emigrate.
There is something magnificent about the cheek
of the person who talks about the “depopulation”
of Victoria. The population of Victoria only
increased at the average rate of 2400 a year from
1892 to 1896, when there was no Factories Act.
After that the increases were : 1897, 2380; 1898,
280; 1899, 6300; 1900, 7720 ; 1901, 11,320. There
is something extra about the gall of the Tory
who calls that steadily increasing growth of popu- :
lation a process of ck population.
It was reported a few days ago that a
private had been seriously injured at the recent
Bathurst military encampment through the brutal
horseplay of his comrades, who tossed him in a
blanket and let him land on the ground when he
came down. There has been a great silence on the
subject since, and the matter seems to have
dropped as well as the unfortunate private—who
is said to have damaged his spine in falling.
Australia doesn’t want its little military show to
get the same sort of smellful reputation that the
British army has acquired, so further information
would be thankfully received.
mar *> r —m
PJfiHW
te*S>,
Mflfif*:
•B i W
m
£
K
jjtvy m\> w
Dunlop
Solid Rubber GuriageTyres
For Fast e Pleasurable Driving.
Mo Noise or Vibration • Last for Years-and
Double the Life of Your Vehicle, from£s &■
upwards a Set.
Jhc Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre CatfAuiLM. Pldb.SvdncY.Pribbanc.Adclakie.ftrth.ftChch.N.Z.j
Sydney Address : 150 Clarence Street.


Oden
U
GUlDj;*.
°OUD
M&C
Less Paper—More Tobacco,
Owing to the use of modern machinery, our Cigarettes have a narrower “lap ” (pasted edge) than any other brand. This necessarily means more
tobacco and less paper. Compare our GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES with any other line and see for yourself if this is not true.
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD. (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
Sydney sixpenny hash-shops which, a little
while ago, raised prices, “owing to the dearness
of meat,” have now come down to the sixpenny
level again.
“H.” : Upon a deceased person of some
note in his day :
It surprises me to get hold of an autobiography of
George Francis Train, dictated by him in 1902, and just
issued by Heinemann, London. There are steep things
enough in it, but yet a good deal that can be verified
otherwise. He was born in Boston, 1829. His father and
mother shortly took their family to New Orleans, where
the yellow fever raged frightfully in 1833. It slew the
whole family, except little G. F., who had been sent away
to Methodist relatives in Boston. They reared him
well, and as a young man he made a great business
mark. After doing well in Boston he went to Liver-
pool, England, and did better. Returning to America,
he gathered up a lot of agencies for Australia. He
arrived in Melbourne in 1854, when 600 ships were in
the bay. He and his partner, Caldwell, built a large
bluestone warehouse in Flinders-street, a little east of
Elizabeth-street. The cost was £16,000. He claims to
have originated the Hobson’s Bay railway, and put up
Freeman Cobb to the idea of the coaches. When Lola
Montes came he interviewed her behind the scenes of the
Theatre Royal, and was enveloped in a cloud of lace,
through her kicking over his head (they always do). A
book Train published about 1858, entitled “ Young
America Abroad,” gives you a better notion of his
Melbourne experiences, and is more sober. He has
been off his onion since. His most astounding
story is that the Eureka Stockade insurgents wanted to
make Train President of the Australian Republic. The
real leader, as the police well knew, was James M'Gill.
Train alleges that M'Gill, badly wanted by the authorities,
walked into his Melbourne office a week or two after the
affair, and there ran against Capt. McMahon, Chief Com-
missioner of Police, afterwards Speaker of the Assembly.
Train alleges that he beguiled M'Mahon away before he
discovered M'Gill, and shipped the latter off to San
Francisco. In fact, from his own report, Train was
pretty well running Victoria just about that time, and
few things happened without his supervision.
All the public clocks in S’Africa were put
on half-an-hour at midnight on February 28, and
all Africa (so far as the British have a say in it)
will now have a standard time from the Cape to
Cairo.
“ Burglar Bill,” in reply to “ Darkholer ’
(4/4/’O3): —
“ Darkholer ” and myself were evidently residents in
the one gaol, but from his remarks I judge that he occu-
pied the position of a warder, while I was a convict. That
makes all the difference. A warder never hears the truth
from a prisoner. When I wrote “ It’s in gaol you hear
the truth about a case,” I wrote as an ex-prisoner, not as
an ex-warder. I never knew a prisoner to tell a warder
the truth. The prisoner whom “Darkholer” mentions
as admitting his crime is an idiot that is
why he admitted. Although a prisoner, I am
better informed than “ Darkholer.” The “ ex-
phrenological lecturer of Sydney Domain ” did
not get the run for “ not rousing on the prisoners,” but
got 48 hours notice from the Deputy Comptroller of
Prisons for asking leave to practise his profession (sic) as
a phrenologist in conjunction with his warder’s duties.
This mis-statement of “ Darkholer ” backs up my former
remarks that the “ screw” is an indolent know-nothing ;
the smart prisoner with an eye to every move generally
knows more about the workings of the gaol than the
ordinary warder. “Darkholer” says the town and
settled farming districts contributed 18 revolting cases
out of 22. I doubt it. When I came out I wrote 15
letters to prisoners’ friends. Five of the prisoners were
lifers, and three were in for horrible offences, and
I know the addresses of their friends were pretty far
back. In fact, the two most revolting cases in the gaol
came from the dark Never Never. And a well-informed
warder must know there is only one “ first-timers’ ” gaol
in N.S.W. His opening sentence saying that my “facts
from one gaol cannot warrant an inference of general
applicability ” leads one to believe that he has found
another. I distinctly mentioned “first timers’” gaol.
Perhaps a prisoner told “Darkholer” where there was
another. The ordinary “ screw ” receives his education
in gaol.
FREE TRIAL
for 90 Days.^^
Not a penny down. Simply drop me a postal card,
with your name and address, and I will forward you at
once one of my latest Improved High-Grade Electric
Belts. You can use it for three months, then pay me if
cured, and the price will be only half what others ask for
their inferior belts. If not cured, you can return the Belt to me, at my expense, and
YOUR WORD WILL DECIDE. lam willing to trust you entirely, knowing that I
have the Best and Most Perfect Belt used in Australia to-day, and nine men in ten
always pay when cured.
I WILL TRUST YOU.
This modern Belt is the most perfect and complete ever invented. It will cure all
cases of Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and
Stomach Complaints, Nervousness, and all Weaknesses of Men and Women.
FREE
A beautiful, illustrated Medical Book, which should be read by all weak men. This
will be sent Free, sealed in plain wrapper, all charges prepaid. It is free, and can be had
for the asking.
Don’t neglect this splendid opportunity to regain your health. We will make a
written diagnosis of your case Free. Write To-day.
The Dr. J. H. Austin Electric Co. ( De p*- M -)
49 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
\\
-
- .
*
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma>
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALFALINE Vitality Fills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
. give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair, but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases.
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS- Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
R ABSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-Tamed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . . .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office-
547 George St., Sydney,
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE; 150 Bourke St.
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
NZ, •• 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW—
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALG-OORLIE ; 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.


Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
Dwellers in one Australian suburb were
horrified t’other week to find that a needy identity
of the neighborhood, regarded as a convenient
consumer of broken vittles and wearer of old
clo’, had succeeded in getting himself officially
appointed to the joint post of hangman and public
flagellatonT jHis sometime patrons shuddered to
reflect that, while leading his master’s kine in the
green pastures of X , and calling regularly at
hospitable backdoors for household flotsam and
jetsam, the scragger had already attended one
execution ‘in a subordinate capacity,’ and had
done several chores in the flogging line. The
charitable woman who gavethehangmansome neck
of mutton last week can’t think of that dish now
without a shudder. The new hangman is a chin-
less little person, with an eerily feminine voice
(seemingly pitched somewhere up in the top of
his head) and is the son of respectable parents in
the cold country, whence a fond mother occa-
sionally forwards to responsible persons small
sums of money for his benefit. He brought with
him from ’Ome a comely wife and really pretty
and winsome children, but, as he soon became a
widower, he took the advice of charitable persons
and handed over his motherless family to the care
of a religious institution. When it was rumored
that the bereaved man was advertising for a new
wife, householders surmised that in future they
would be called upon to pan out crusts and cold
tea for two, little suspecting that the expectant
bridegroom had in view a regular source of income
at the gallows and triangle.
DRYSDALE’S AIMTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Timbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
It is not often that a man runs into gaol
to get away from a policeman, yet such actually
occurred a few days ago in Sydney. A wanted
person, after a long run, made a final effort to
shake off the pursuing bobby by jumping a fence,
whereat the bobby eased up and shed a benign
smile across the enclosure. The man had jumped
into the yard of No. 4 police station !
“M'Quaid” writes from Queensland
about Victoria’s long-lost hangman, Gately :
The man who wrote up Gately in your columns stopped
short with his sudden disappearance from the hangman-
ship and floggership of Victoria. Probably the detectives
who searched for the vanished official strangler confined
their search too exclusively to the Yarra banks. My
acquaintance with Gately commenced some 23 years ago,
where your correspondent’s left off. He was then doing
time (a short time) at St. Helena, Brisbane—a case of
assault and battery only. My duties brought me in
touch with him daily. He was no better and
no worse than thousands of those who affect to
feel shuddersome if compelled to sit in a tram-
car with a Nosey Bob or a Gately, yet would
deem it a lifelasting honor to be even noticed by
the “hero of Omdurman.” While Gately was on the
“ island ” he was kept apart from the other prisoners.
He was excessively vain, and dyed his hair and beard a
jet black. He used to make his dye from material
growing on the “ farm ” ; said material was a trade
secret. After his discharge from the “ island ”he applied
for and got a pass to the Mitchell extension of the S. and
W. railway. He was not long on the works ere he was
recognised as the Victorian ex-hangman, and unpopu-
larity set in. Every pay saw Gately very much in
evidence ; for him to have a dozen fights in a day was
nothing unusual. He was no coward, but, being old, his
wind used to fail him, and it was a common occurrence
for him to sit or walk round until he got a fresh stock of
oxygen, and then resume his battle. The Muckadilla
rum proved more fatal in the end than the combined
hostility of the navvies, and he was counted out, and all
that was left of Gately, alias Bourke, was thrown into a
shallow grave—unwept, and all the rest of it.
NOTICE
To sufferersfrom Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy. 1
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent lload, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of yom
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to G. Specific, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.
Tkusj
Rupture
Dr. Pierce’s Electric Truss
is a Marvel. Nothing like
it. Best Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure for Rupture.
World-renowned. 27 improvem’ts.
If ruptured, send a stamp, (any
sort), for new “Booklet No. 1.”
MAGNETIC E. TRUSS CO., 206 Post Street, San
Francisco, U.S, A.; W. H. Soul & Co., Agents, Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 1’21b., and
I will willingly send particulars FUEK to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co,
Manufacturing and
Dispensing Chemists.
We have special remedies for the correct and effective treatment of Nerve and Blood Diseases. Testi-
monials from all sources proving their efficacy. Write for Printed Price Lists ; they will be mailed free.
NOTICE —Our ELECTRIC BELT, price 10s., usual price £l, is infallible in the cure of WEAKNESS and
STOMACH DISORDERS. Electricity re-invigorates the vital nerve seoAions, governing the processes
of digestion and nutrition. It effects a sure cure. DR. CLARKSONS RE-INt IGORATOR, a
VITALISING, NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT. We still offer £lOO for
any case we cannot cure. Price, 7s. 6d. per bottle. Three bottles, £l. Post 1 ree to all parts of
Australia.
A certain cure for
Pyramid Pile Cure.— A certain remedy.
Fincham’s Face Bleach.— Clears the skin from Spots, Redness, Roughness, Freckles, Tan,
Sunburn. &c. Invaluable for use in the country.
Fincham’s Infallible Worm Powders —Specially suitable for children.
Fincham’s Celebrated Pectoral “Cough I Cure.”-lovaluable for children. A Reliable
Remedy for Group, Asthma, Whooping Cough, and all Throat and Lung Affections.
Fincham’s “Gout and Rheumatic Cure. ’’--Takes certain effect in cases of Acute Lumbago,
Sciatica, Lame Back, Headache, Shoulder and Muscular Pains.
Dr. Hughes’ “Fits Epilep.”— A certain remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms.
Dr. Wilson’s “ Neuralgia Mixture.” —One Dose Relieves, One Bottle Cures the most
agonising Face Neuralgia.
Fincham’s “Capiline.”-A Nursery Hair-Wash for Children’s Heads. Unsurpassed. One Bottle
Sufficient.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be posted to any Australian address, secure
from breakage, on application to—
Note the Address : THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
C. P. FINCHAM, Pharmaceutical Chemist. 227 ELIZABETH ST,, Opp. Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
DRI N K—— —
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT (
FOR SORB AND WEAK BYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES- (
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. -•
NEVER RAILS.
w Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
The High=Class Smoking Mixture.
Has
NO EQUAL
IN
QUALITY.
Y Tobacco
("iGARETTE >
m
m
Factory
"ARK
C PURVEYORS OF
PURE TOBACCOS
niLD,
MEDIUn,
FULL.
In Jlb. Air Tight Tins,
Manufactured by t 'he ARDATH TOBACCO CO.,
LONDON.
Canz Induction Motor.
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victora.
SOLE AGENTS:
The Austral Qtis Engineering C».. Etd., South fflelb.
KING
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
m,
f:' _■ ••
mfL +
Noiseless Uuderwater. .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING "ENGINE-ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
modermott & compaixty,
30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
These series
of Pens neither
scratch nor spurt
[They glide over
[the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Seven
Prize Medals..
Works :
Birming'ham, England.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The KTBW CENTURY RIFLE
Full Length, 35in. ; Weight, 31b. ; Fires 8.8. Cap, or
22 Long, or 22 Short Rim Fire Cartridge. Takes down
with a single screw. All parts of Best Steel. Per-
fectly Machined throughout. Accurately sighted and
well Rifled for Perfect Shooting. Will kill at 300yds.
Carriage Paid to any railway station in N.S.W. Orders despatched same day.
P.O. Orders payable to
Sydney Small Arms Co., 57 Post Office Chambers, Sydney,
' and crossed e.s. and a. bank.
a Full Stock of D.8.8.L. Guns, Rifles, and Revolvers always on hand.
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
15s
Each.
N.S.W. Carriage
& Saddlery Manuf. Company,
,Vhen in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
iULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
,vill save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
S-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladfes 1 Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order! HAPvNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
>ent. more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfcrn, SYDNEY
OUK SI’TCCTATj No. 2
£8 18/6
Rolirered at any Wharf nr
N.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
THE DEAF HEAR.
Deaf persons need no longer despair,
genuine success. Head noises can
Out of the mass of failures has come a
be cured and the deaf made to hear so
effectively that they wonder if they really were deaf. Particulars of a startling
discovery, based upon the science of Metallic Galvanic Electricity, that will
assist all persons suffering from deafness, fully described.
FREE.
By sending' your name and address to THE L B. VERNON CO., 60-64- Hunter-st.,
will receive a full description of this remarkable method, which will enable you to
hearing- at a very slight expense. The description is posted to you free, and you will be delighted
easily you can obtain relief. It will pay you to write to-day. Don’t neglect to do so.
Sydney, you
restore your
to learn how
OBSERVATIONS.
If some people were only half as clever as they think
they are they would be a great deal cleverer than they
are now.
Don’t judge a man by the company he keeps. The
company may keep him.
When I see a rich man surrounded by his friends I
think of me and fleas.
A man often finds his close friends close.
If love is blind it doesn’t long go begging.
What paradoxes some women are. They support
themselves by falling.
An acquaintance with the “ cat ” is sometimes the
result of going to the dogs.
Love is blind, and is therefore eager to see a match
struck.
J.J.O.
“ The fatal opulence of bishops ” —a good
phrase, by a parson too.
“ Burglar Bill ” : Till lately six freemen
and six prisoners constituted a coroner’s jury for
an inquest on a prisoner who had died inside.
Quite recently an old man died in a N.S.W. gaol,
and, after the six most ignorant prisoners had been
selected as jurymen, they were suddenly dismissed
and twelve free men hooked from the rag-and-bob-
tail of the town. What has brought about the
change, and who, and why ? The prisoner gener-
ally knows something that should be asked, but
which he is afraid of asking ; but the outside man
knows nothing and doesn’t care. In the case
to which I am referring it would seem that it was
only the priest’s threat that induced the authori-
ties to put the unfortunate old man of over 70
years of age in gaol hospital. The temperature of
the cell in which he was confined was 30 degrees,
and he was given a black draught an hour before
he died. Black draughts are a panacea for many
ills in gaol.


THE WHOLE MYSTERY.
The Disciple: “I say, George, I’m thinkin' of becomin’ a great Politician
like you. What ought Ito take to qualify 1 ”
George : “ Bitter ‘ Alok ’ —been the secret of my success.”
Jiaweycufoad anstfa/z %ji/vda ?
Wfty net f
uv ail take it.
A Good Thing to take Every Morning and
Before Each Meal.
Freshly Prepared from the CELEBRATED
AFRICAN KOLA NUTS Cola Acuminata.)
The Greatest PICK-ME-UP and APPETISER
in the World.
WHAT MADAME ALBANI SAYS ABOUT “ ALOK,”
MIGHTY "ALOK”:
Hotel Australia, Sydney, Maroh 29th, 1898.
Messrs. FISHER & CO.
Dear Sirs, —I shall be much obliged if you will send me two bottles of your
preparation, “ALOK.” lam very glad to tell you that this Tonic was of
great service to me on the sea, and in helping me to recover from the effects of
my long voyage. It is of great benefit in stopping sea-sickness, and of great
assistance to anyone who has fatiguing work to do.
I am, yours very truly,
G. ALBANI GYE.
ALL HOTELS, WITH SODA WATER, 6d. per Glass.
All Chemists, 2s 6d and 3s 6d per Bottle.
MANUFACTURING PHARMACY-
FISHER & COMPANY
337 GEORGE ST. (nearly opp. G.P.0.).
Melbourne Agents—Messrs. Taylor, Ferguson & Co., Flinders Lane.
Brisbane Agents—Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd.; Messrs. Taylor & Colledge;
Messrs. John Connell & Co. Propy., Ltd.
Amusements.
JHE MUTOSCOPB.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
now on view at
KING STREET ARCADE CORNER,
and
74 OXFORD STREET.
Real Life Portrayed with a Vividness and Realism
Never Before Witnessed.
Egg 1 - ADMISSION FREE.
HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON.
To-night at 7.46. Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2.
SWEEPING SUCCESS
of J. O. WILLIAMSON and Mr. GEO. MUSGROVE’S
DICK WHITTINGTON
AND HIS WONDERFUL CAT.
An Entertainment of Unexampled
Brilliancy.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices as Usual.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
the World-Famed Farcical Comedy,
ARE YOU A MASON ?
Interpreted by Mr. Williamson’s NEW COMEDY
COMPANY.
headed by the Famous English Comedian,
MR. CEORCE CIDDENS. ,
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as Usual.
QRITERION T H EATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
Representative -. Mr. Mayne.
Agent Mr. H. P. Lyons.
FRANK THORNTON COMEDY BBASON.
OUR HILARIOUS ATTRACTION,
CHARLEY’S A.TT3NTT.
From Brazil where the nuts come from.
EVERYBODY’S FAVORITE PLAY,
THE QUEEN OF LAUGHMAKERS,
CHARLEY’S AUNT.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PRICES—Ss., 3s. 2s. and Is. Early doors (from 7to
7.30, Is. extra. Ordinary Doors, 7.30. Overture, 8.
Carriages, 10.30. Children under 7 not admitted.
YC E U M THEATR E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
SPLENDID SUCCESS Achieved by
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation
in the largest great Adelphi Success,
A Woman of Pleasure.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
-p OW N H ALL, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Messrs. J. O. WILLIAMSON and
GEO. MUSGROVE.
THURSDAY, APRIL 23.
SATURDAY, APRIL 25.
MONDAY, APRIL 27.
ENGLAND’S GREATEST TENOR,
EDWARD LLOYD,
Assisted by a
COMPLETE CONCERT COMPANY,
including
MR. F. W. PETERKIN ..
MISS EMILY FOXCROFT
MISS JEAN NEWMAN ..
MISS MAY MUKLE
Basso.
Contralto.
Soprano.
'Cellist.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Mr. HAROLD ASHTON, Manager.
Fitzgerald bros;
HUGE MOVING CARAVAN.
THE GREAT CIRCUS ATTRACTION OF 1903.
LOCATION: BELMORE PARK.
THE NEW COMPANY. A SPLENDID SUCCESS.
RECORD ATTENDANCES NIGHTLY.
UNDENIABLE SUCCESS of Mademoiselle ONRA,
ERIC and REANO, THE MARRATOS, THE FLYING
METEORS, GILLENO (Musical Clown), MANZONI’S
DOGS, THE WHIMSICAL WALHALLAS, KATIE
MONTGOMERY and PACEL.
THE CYCLE WHIZZ— “ Circling the Cirque.”
A Splendid Band, led by Herr Von Der Mehden.
Open-air Free Concert at 7 p.m.
Popular Prices—4s., 35., 25., and Is.
MATINEES, SATURDAY and WEDNESDAYS.
Box Plan at Paling and Co.’s.
Leave all Trams at Hay-street. Ask the conductor for
the Circus, and he will direct you.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harr? Rickards.
SATURDAY NIGHT.
NEW FIRST PART-LAWN TENNIS.
Splendid Success of SEELEY and WEST, RODDA PERRY
and H. C. BUCKLEY.
Pronounced Success of HILL and BYLVAINY.
Reappearance of SAM HOLDSWORTH.
PRACTICALLY A NEW COMPANY.
P E R A HOUSE, M E L B O U R N E.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
SATURDAY NIGHT-
NEW FIRST PART—” JOLLY JAPS.”
SPLENDID SUCCESS OF M. RUDINOFF.
Last Nine Nights of
GRACIE EMMETT & CO. and Mr. G. W. HUNTER.
Pronounced Success of WILL WHITBURN, ERNEST
FITTS, JACK HARRISON, WALKER & MAY, JAS.
OPIE, MILLIE HERBERTE, LINGARD SISTERS, and
PRACTICALLY A NEW COMPANY.
MIIRTH’S CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE.
■■ LOCATION—WIRTH’S GROUNDS, PRINCE’S
BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
THE REIGNING SUCCESS.
Acknowledged by Press and Public to be the Greatest
Organisation ever got together in the colonies.
GRAND ROMAN HIPPODROME and WILD WEBT SHOW,
and Many Other Novelties.
THE MYSTERIOUB BROTHERS HOWARD,
The Theme of Conversation. The Wonders of the Age.
The Wild Animal Acts Never Before Equalled.
THE WHOLE SHOW A GIGANTIC TRIUMPH.
IN PREPARATION—GRAND PANTOMIME
• CIKTDERELLA. •
Prices—4s., 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Glen’s.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
G. L. Petersen, Agent. E. Erskine Scott, Representative.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
And by
Special Appointment
Mrs* William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dancing:, Deportment, Craoeful
Carriage, Etiquette and Calisthenic Exercises.
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arranged for at
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended.
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus—
“ Ellorslie,” 100 Nicholson-st., Fitzroy.
amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING, AND SECOND WEEK OF
Mr. George Musgrove’s New English Company in
Shakespeare’s Delightful Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. 0. Simonsens.
SECOND WEEK OP
Bland Holt Dramatic Co. in the Great Sporting
Drama,
THE PRODIGAL DAUGHTER.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan^
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE'
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. William •
Bus. Manager, Gho. Tallis. Treas., K.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OP MA MIE ROSETTE.
SATURDAY NEXT (25th) GRAND REVIVAL OF
PAUL JONES ~
BY J. 0. WILLIAMSON'S COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
PRICES AS USUAL. TEA Box Plan at Allan’s^
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
“ The Home of Laughter.’
Management of Willoughby and Geaen.
EVERY EVENING, AND SECOND WEEK
the Laughing Success of Three Continents,
MISTAKES WILL HAPPEN-
(By Special Arrangement with Mr. Charlss AR
There is Nothing Funnier than the Funnies .
THIS IS THE FUNNIEST.
Prices as UsuaL Box Plan
At Poverty Point.
It has not taken long for another member of th
Castles singing family to wing his flight
after his sisters. Young George, the tenor, eaTeriv
grabbed at a chance which presented itself of goinl aw»*
for twelve months as secretary to Father Milne OurrL i£ y
N.S.W. geologist-priest. His voice, lentTu" a
too much to small suburban shivoos around Melho,,'
and withdrawn from capable direction, has, during
past few months, given signs of rough usage • but <w
expresses a determination to consult one or twn nf tP
big guns of Paris and London as to his chances. Ctle
Writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent -Tk
most overcrowded raft on London’s turbid sea is the
cert p'atform and though there is ever room at h n
Melbas and Crossleys do not leave Australia by eve™
weekly mail-boat The openings for bright Australiennes
are the musical comedy stage and the good 2
music halls. The girl from “ Down Under” hJT
pull over her English sister in quickness and snhti.V,
of intelligence, and she is not so “boundTsh" aB
typical American. Edna May is more Australian tvZ
Yank in style, and Australia has many like her
Frank Thornton describes Maoriland as “ a eo.mf,
consisting of 51 towns and 43 theatre companies’” Tk
■“*”» W iu dy t s >w u ofWeHington had, in the same Week
Melba, Thorntons Dramatic Co., Williamson’s <W
Opera Co., Fitzgeralds’ Circus, and a variety show
the circus cleared out a bazaar opened and competed !?
a bob a head, with Melba, Williamson, Thornton 1 ?™? it 6
variety show. Theatrical competition in M L has no*
reached such a stage that Hawtrey, who never sneS
money foolishly, rented both the Opera House and Hi?
Majesty’s Theatre in Auckland, preferring to keen ft!
Opera House shut at a cost of £5O per week rather than
struggle against the rival attraction that would other
wise have assuredly come along.
Willoughby of “ Wrong Mr. Wright ” fame dealt a blow
to piracy when he succeeded in restraining Henrv from
using th e title “ The Wrong Mrs. Wright.” If Willopghh?
had failed in his lawsuit anybody could have come alonv
and staged “Aren’t You a Mason?” or “Sweet Smell of
Old Brewery,” or any other imitations of copyrighted nl™
titles. Willoughby, who secured the verdict so valuable
to all Australian managers, is the youngest member of
the craft.
“T.D,”: Edward Lloyd broke down, through frov-in.
the-throat, in one of his songs at his second Melb con-
cert, and with a semi-jocular nod to the audience began
all over again—certainly singing far better the ’second
time than the first. Were a minor artist to do so he
would simply vanish from all leading concert programmes
permanently, and singers are many a time kept from
actually breaking down, through cold or nervousness or
failure to remember the words, by this knowledge They
may sing very badly in consequence, but it is the “ break
down ’’ that audiences regard as the unpardonable sin.
Pinero, in picking his cast for the first production of
“ Dandy Dick,” decided that the man to impersonate the
rural policeman exactly to his liking was W. H. Denny,
whose forte, as an actor, is a natural assumption of infal-
libility. Noah Topping, the policeman aforesaid, was
played by Brough in Australia, but Brough, when bossing
the situation and commanding his “darling” wife to
“ shu-u-t oop,” didn’t strike one as being to the manner
born. Denny has the autocratic voice and instinct
strongly developed. This accounts for his recognised
lien on the character of Bottom the Weaver, in “ Mid-
summer Night’s Dream.” No performance of “The
Dream ” can be considered quite complete nowadays
unless Denny plays Bottom. “ Yet my chief humor is for
a tyrant : I could play Ercles rarely, or a part to tear a
cat in, to make all split.” The audiences at Melbourne
Princess’s accept Denny’s delivery of those lines as a
satisfactory personal explanation.
“ T.F.D.” : Once knew a girl who was nursemaid to the
only child of a lately deceased actress. She told me the
actress would spend hours in front of her cheval-glass
admiring her bare legs. “ She asked me often,” said the
girl, “if I wouldn’t like a pair as good, but mine ain’t so
dusty, so I said I was satisfied.’’
About the most interesting thing said at the annual
meeting of the Hannan’s Land Co. in London, after the
announcement of a 10 per cent. div. and the writing-off of
£613 for depreciation, was that the directors proposed to
invest £20,000 in building a theatre at Kalgoorlie. There
are 40,000 reserved shares, which will probably be issued
for the purpose.
“Melb.”: Died, April 14, John Leon Jones, aged 83,
ex-circus proprietor, known as Mons. St. Leon, father of
Gus St. Leon and Walter St. Leon, etc. Had a long and
honorable career, in rivalry of Burton, Ashton, and the
rest. Not to be confounded with Billy Jones, of Fitz-
gerald’s.
Chicago papers are enthusiastic in their praise of Maud
MacCarthy as a violinist“ Miss MacCarthy is delicate,
refined, almost fragile, but she draws a larger tone than
any woman who has ever played here, and one which
startles many a masculine opponent. She has an- unyield-
ing authority and rhythmic sense that are as firmly
grounded as a rock, and she is about as quiet, aaunmov-
able. Miss MacCarthy’s playing has emotional quality
and pure sentiment stamped indefinably upon it.”
Young Maurice Kellermann, eldest son of Madame
Charbonnet-Kellermann, promises well as a violinist.
Though but 18 he is one of the first violins of the Phil-
harmonic orchestra, has just been appointed second
violin at the Princess’ for the Shakspearian season, and
conducts and trains on his own account a very efficient
little orchestra at Cheltenham.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
The finest satire is concealed under a veil of beautiful
solemnity. Take, for instance, the case of a Jewess sing-
ing “ He was despised,” or a Jew basso putting his whole
artistic soul into a rendering of “ Nazareth.”


MEDICAL REVOLUTIONS.
CURED TO
STAY CURED.
NOTHING wrecks a man's life
more surely or quickly than
derangements of the vital
organs. A weak man is a drone
upon Society, lacking that natural
strength which is the keynote to
commercial success and domestic
happiness. His deplorable condi-
tion haunts him day and night; it
j jjiever absent.
Thousands of men who have
been restored to Health and Vigor
have applied to us after years of
bad treatment by quacks and
charlatans. They have had years
of intense suffering, they had given
up hope, but we have cured them.
We are so certain of establishing
Quick <*. Thorough j* ures
ell at we take no case in hand uhless
we are positive we can cure. Piti-
able cases of nervous wrecks and
run-down men and women have
’ome to us every day and we have
made them perfect in health. We
have re-invigorated them in a few
weeks by our wonderful
Electro-Medical
Treatment
or the combined use of Electricity
and Medicine.
Our system of Home Treatment
is availei of by thousands of per-
sons resident in the back country
where medical men are few. We
daily receive testimonies from per-
sons who have been cured without
even consulting us personally. We
never take a case in hand without
we are certain of a cure. We are
under a guarantee
Bond of £lOOO
for the faithful performance of all
Medical contracts undertaken. We
cure many so-called “ Incurable "
diseases thus described by the
medical faculty.
iH!
m
"3S|
Bl
I*liz3
ESI
Mk.
. : :
HI
fol
* *flf
:■■' *n J
ItiriHß
•jj'UiEH:
pilS!®
< e? :
K
Bl
lii
a
aSsiE
1 1
ili.il
i!
lii
r
.
;..h:
»
Wmf
, xtß
KicUffi
/
7#
mm
ci:::
SB
. •
V-S
//
',: -.
is
11
rT
m
m
m
/^x
a)
r:
C. - - ” *• » 1 .
Th eFREEMAN* WALLACE
f r IMS’S THTg 1
SYDNEY
piimsi
m
FYOUR S£X HAVE BE£H
'
£05:?*? =
T
ALWAYS YOURS
WHILE.
YOU MAY.
Extracts from
Patients’Letters
HERE are a few extracts from
patients’ letters which you
should read carefully and
think over. They are only a few
selected from many scores which
are received daily.
Mr. Philip Newbury,
the great English tenor, now starring in
London, writes :
“For years I suffered from uric acid in
the blood. Thanks to the wonderful effi-
cacy of your Electric ‘ INVIGORATOR,’
I am now completely cured.
“(Signed) PHILIP NEWBURY.”
A Victorian says—
“ Warwillah,
“ Hawkesdale, Victoria.
“I acknowledge receipt of Electric
‘INVIGORATOR,’ which I have used
according to instructions. I sleep much
better. I feel a different man since I com-
menced your treatment.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ H. J. SHERRING.”
Newcastle Man writes—
“ Merewether,
“Newcastle.
“Please forward me more medicines. I
am improving. Those ‘INVIGORA-
TORB ’of yours are very good. I have not
had any pains in my shoulders this last
fortnight. Am pretty well right again.
“Yours truly,
“ WILLIAM DAVIES."
A New Zealander attests—
“ Limestone Island.
“Auckland, N.Z.
“Your ‘Belt’ came to hand all right, I
am wearing it according to instructions.
I was as bad as ever before its use, but
since, I feel much better. It seems to
make me sleep well since applying it.
“Yours sincerely,
“H. HEWLETT.”
A N.S. Wales sufferer —
“ Adelong Crossing,
“ via Gundagai.
“I have received your ‘INVIGORA-
TOR,’ and lam thankful. It is doing me
a lot of good. I cannot but send you a
good testimonial showing what benefit the
‘ Belt ’ me in so short a time.
“Truly yours,
“JAMES NEVE.”
Don’t such letters give you hope ?
You should write for special
brochure of testimonies, illustrated.
You may find there a case similar
to your own.
The Specialists* Fees : Advice and Medicine, ONE POUND only.
v Electricity and Medicine is the new system of treating debilitating diseases. Scientists employ it, the public praise it. The “INVIGORATORS,”
worn round the waist nightly, re-invigorate the entire nerve-centres of the body. The medicines, which are of a specially reconstructive character, tone up
the digestive and nutritive processes, laying the foundation of a grand new healthy life. These “INVIGORATORS” are modelled after those used by
three Physicians to the late Queen; they are perfect, and in bad cases will completely cure INSOMNIA, INDIGESTION, EPILEPSY, RHEUMA-
TISM, CHRONIC DYSPEPSIA, SCIATICA, and FUNCTIONAL NERVE DISORDERS. They are good for women to wear. Consider these
prices well with those you are asked to pay for old-time Electric “Belts.”
£& NOTE.—The Physician-in-Chief is the only Registered Medical Practitioner advertising Electric Belts in Australia. (See N.S.W. Medical Gazette).
PRICES.
You see here the value :
Solid Cold (2oz. 18ct. Cold), £lO ; Solid Silver, £3 ; Electro-Plate, £1 108; Copper-Plate, £l.
Practical Private Tests given. Certificates of Genuineness shown from Electrical Experts, proving they have the true non-conducting vulcanite
insulation, without which no “ BELT ” can give a true medical electric current.
Registration by the Medical Boards of
New South Wales
South Australia
Victoria
England
and
America
Open for inspection of the PHYSICIAN-IN-CHIEF to the Institute, of
whom SIR DOMINIC CORRIGAN, BART., says: “ I entertain a high
opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard, to his professional qualifications.”
The operations of the INSTITUTE are world-wide. Scarcely a day
passes but SOME GREAT CURE is reported through the medium of
the SPECIALISTS’ SYSTEM of HOME TREATMENT. Patients are
treated as well in THEIR OWN HOMES as if visiting personally. To
the poor professional advices ARE ALWAYS GIVEN FREE.
The SPECIALISTS’ treatment is sure and effective. Improvement
is rapid and certain.
VAan
<r * *
CTRC
OICA
GICA
•Tut
Post Free, Is.
Medical Health Guides
The finest friend any man or woman can possess is a good instructive
book upon health and how to act when disease enters into the house
Here is the very book required. “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES ”
550 pages, 31 chapters, ’
150 MEDICAL PLATES,
fuJ of interest and instruction. Tells you what to do in sunstroke or
hi cv ; 2s of FEVER, DROWNING, APOPLEXY, BURNS and
SCALDS, SNAKEBITE or POISONING. Where there is no medical
man, that is where this book finds a place.
It is a handsome volume, highly finished in every way, a splendid gift
to a friend or a valuable companion for yourself. It thoroughly explains
the use of Electricity to the human frame. Post free to any address.
One Shilling in Stamps Only.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D , L.R.C.P.,
Medicines packed Free From Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
L.F.P.S , E., L.M , Physician-ln-Chief. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly attended to-


Talk about hard luck ! Yankee papers
tell of a man who had served 25 years for murder
being liberated in a street where the electric
trams ran. Twenty-five years before, when he
went through the front-gate of the gaol, the trams
down that street were drawn by horses, and he
had never seen or heard of an electric car. When
they showed him out, an electric car was standing
a few yards above the gaol gates, and seeing no
horses attached to it he concluded they were at
the other end and that the tram was going in the
opposite direction. Then there was a ringing of
bells, a sudden shouting, a quick stopping, and a
dead body was carried back into the gaol.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by “ Hop,” N. Lindsay,
A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome cloth,
decorated. Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
Sole Distributing Agents- 55. ; POSTAGE 4d.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co,, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
A shocked citizen sends this :
The landlady of a popular Westralian hotel was relating
her matrimonial miseries to some of her most favored
customers, myself among the number : “ I left my first
husband immediately after the wedding breakfast"
“Why?” asked one of her auditors. “ Because ” ex-
plained the lady, “he got drunk and kissed all the
bridesmaids, and wanted to cut up my garters for wed-
ding favors, and then started chasing the barmaids all
over the shop. And since then,” she sighed, “ I’ve never
set eyes upon him.” “ But,” chipped in a most incon-
venient citizen, “you had two children when you
married your second husband in Kanowna.” “Yes ’’the
lady admitted, with a pensive sigh, “ but those children
happened after I came to Westralia.” And, as the editor
of a pious paper over there remarks, “ A great many
things happen after a great many people come to
Westralia.”
Hearne
THE FA.MOTJS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure- It is most com-
fortwTn^Slaving irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never I ken Sn to exist where ‘‘ Cough. " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BEIX
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medioine has effected in
m.v case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,— Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as Soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cin for bronohitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Viotoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
"Mr. Hearne.—
"Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
ohitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old. also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
" Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than i have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness 'n sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL,
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows: —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, I am feeling stronger than I have for years.
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. _ I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
verv much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case,
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. <3. Hearne.— Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yourssinoerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l hav
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine qui
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommendingit
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:— I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
eturn of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot Q^ ce . jj 0 5 First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
•ur —
—'V —
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prom pt cash settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweej^etc.
For all Information regarding Kates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Hapto;
or, A. B. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Bengep*B Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
r’s Pood
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘Bengers
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
other
value,
no
its
ould be used.


From the Satukday Review (London) :
Under our policy of free-trade our agriculture has been
ruined, our manufactures have for years been struggling
for existence, our working classes are calling out for em-
ployment, whilst we are paying to the foreigner more
than £400,000,000 a year in the purchase of produce,
much of which might, under a common sense policy,
have been furnished at home, giving employment to our
own working classes. The United States and Germany
are pressing us hard, and taking away our trade, even in
our own markets. Our imports now exceed our exports
by about £180,000,000 a year. The industries of the
United States have developed by leaps and bounds under
a policy of stringent protection, which the Cobden Club
prophesied would be their ruin ; their special exports in
1898 increased by £76,000,000 when compared with those
of 1890, whilst those of Great Britain decreased by
£30,000,000.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Three 'Austral' Beauties
Just Imported by, and made specially to
order of the BAKER & ROUSE PROPY.,
LTD.
“AUSTRAL’'No. I.—A daylight loading roller
film camera, takes pictures 2\ x2j inches.
Perfect and Complete. Achromatic lens,
PRICE, SIX SHILLINGS.
everset shutter, finder
“AUSTRAL” No. 2.~Takes pictures 3* x2J inches.
Similar to No. 1 - - PRICE, TEN SHILLINGS.
“ AUSTRAL” No. 3.-=A Handsome Opiate Camera, maga-
zine for 12 plates or 24 films. Splendid lens, T. and I.
shutter, revolving diaphraghms, two finders and a
PF?
Sydn
Melbourne
Adelaide
Brisbane
TWENTY-ONB SHILLINGS.
changing system that never misses fire -
All these Cameras are fitted with the most modern improvements.
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING, ‘FRUIT REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING. SALT.’
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION.—See Capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without It you have a
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. G. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON. ENG.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, <£ c., everywhere.
All who lead active
lives understand
th»
Value of Health.
A SLUGGISH LIVER STIMULATED BY
KUTNOW’S POWDER.
An Eminent Physician
Professor of Clinical Medical Disease
of Children and Hygiene, Marion-
Sims College of Medicine, and
College of Physicians and Sur-
geons, writing on April 3rd, 1901,
says :
The great surgeon, Professor Lawson
Tait, M.D., himself a sufferer from a
gouty diathesis, was not only one of the
world’s greatest surgeons, but an able
physician and a skilful therapeutist. For
years he found Kutnow’s Powder of great
value to him personally and in his prac-
tice, and this remedy is one of the few he
conspicuously endorsed over his own sig-
nature. He realised, as all observing
practitioners do, that it is necessary to
cleanse the system frequently, to remove
debris left by undigested food, and to
hasten the elimination of uric acid to
properly guard against serious disease.
Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the ac-
tivities of the bowels and kidneys. A
dessertspoonful taken in a tumberful of
water immediately on rising in the morn-
ing cleans out the bowels, dilutes the
urine, and flushes out the kidneys in a
most satisfactory way. Thorough elimi-
nation is salvation, and there is no better
eliminator than Kutnow’s Powder.
L N. LOVE, M.D.
KUTNOW’S i
iMPPCVtO EFFf P-lESCENT CARLSBAD
POWDER.
w\sprur\£ or Deer Leap
LP
4 Lokook
41, FAP.RIHGOON ROAD. I
REGISTERED TRADE WARM
BEWARE OF FRAUDULENT
SUBSTITUTES.
CAUTION.—There are some unscrupulous dealers who, for the
sake of extra profit, try to sell substitutes of Kutnow’s Powder.
These may be offered for a few pence less, but are worthless and
consequently dear at any price. Firmly insist
upon having Kutnow’s Powder and do not
allow yourself to be persuaded to accept any
substitute.
KUBELIK, the World-Renowned Violinist,
writes:]
Marienbad, 6th September, 1902.
Dear Sirs,—l received so much benefit from
the use of Kutnow's Powder that I will gladly
recommend it to all my friends as a most ex-
cellent remedy for the stomach and nerves.
Yours truly,
JAN KUBELIK.
KUTNOW’S POWDER CAN BE OBTAINED
FROM ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE
VENDORS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Eradicated Stubborn
Diseases.
The extraordinary complicated diseases
resulting from neglect of precautionary
measures pass the wit of man. It is not
the business of Kutnow’s Powder to claim
that it can cure all the ills of man-
kind, from Housemaid’s Knee to Impe-
cuniosity.
One solid, incontestable fact, however,
remains in the world-wide testimony of
sufferers from painful and distressing
derangements, viz., that Kutnow’s Powder
not only prevents disease by its marvel-
lous cleansing properties, but absolutely
eradicates diseases that have become
stubborn through neglect.
If in robust health take Kutnow’s
Powder on rising, and you need never be
ill; if ill, depressed, irritable, languid, or
sleepless, take Kutnow's, and the trouble
quickly vanishes ; the blood is purified,
the heart beats more vigorously, the
liver quickens into action, and the
kidneys are regulated into increased effi-
ciency. Thus does the man become
himself again, lives, breathes, and enjoys
his being, eats well, sleeps well, and
works well.
SICK-HEADACHE ERADICATED
BY KUTNOW’S POWDER.
Sufferers from Violent
Headaches Value
Kutnow’s Powder.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO.. Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
[6-12]
Proprietors in U.S.A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
The Turn Off.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As the waggon came alongside the swaggie threw
his “bluey” aboard, and followed it with an
alacrity surprising for one of his profession.
When comfortably seated he ventured to address
Terry for the first time.
“ Keepin’ very dry, boss. The ’eat seems to be
playin’ up with yer team. Wonder when this
drought’s goin’ ter break up ? ”
The man from the “ Devil's Bit ” didn’t approve
of suoh free-and-easy methods ; but, as he knew
the remarks were true, he nodded his head.
“’Ow far from’ere to Windeyer, boss? I ’ear
they’re gettin’ a little gold on the Meroo and
Long’s Creek way.”
“About twinty-three moiles ’ll land ye at
Windeyer,” said Terry, coughing to prevent him-
self from choking with indignation.
As this was all the information the swagman
wanted, and as he could plainly see his imposition
was not approved of, he said no more.
From then till nearly sundown the only words
heard were those addressed by Terry to his
bullocks, but when the scattered huts and would-
be farms indicated that a town was not far distant,
the stranger said —“ S’pose we’ll git to Windeyer
by sundown, boss ? ”
“ Windeyer’s thirty-foive moiies from here” said
Terry calmly.
“Wot? Didn’ you say this mornin’ that 23 mile
’ud see me there? ”
“Oi did. An’ so it wud —but ye should have
turned-off at Guntawang ! ”.
“Then, why the hell did’n yer say so before,
instead of havin’ me perched in this dam furnace
all day?”
“The ‘ perrchin in this dam furnace’ was yer
own doin’; an’ Oi hope the nixt toime ye want a
roide, ye’ll have the dacency to ax for it.”
The swagman threw his “drum” into the road
with as much vim as if it had been the carcase of
O’Shaughnessy himself. Then he got out, shook
as much of the road as he could out of his bruised
swag, and made tracks back to the turn-off —a
wilder but wiser man.
PADDY MELON.
What to Carry to Newcastle.
In England the expression “carry coals to New-
castle ” has for centuries been used to denote any
absurdly unnecessary act, such as gilding refined
gold, painting the lily, or bidding a boy to whistle
and interfere with whatever is within his reach.
With regard to carrying coals from Newcastle,
that has been done in England for a vast
number of years, and the process is still going
on as merrily as ever. It is no more neces-
sary to carry coals to our own Newcastle,
here in Australia, than it is to carry coals to
the English Newcastle. Indeed, we Australians
confidently expect to have a few tons of the dusty
diamonds on hand after the English Newcastle
has been cleared of them and has only a memory
of former wealth. What is necessary to carry to
Newcastle, N.S.W., is good health for her
miners, and this is best done in the form of bottles
of Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. A great
many people know this to be true, and one of
them is Mr. J. Thompson, of Edward-street,
Merewether, near Newcastle, N.S.W. Writing
on October 10th, 1902, Mr. Thompson says
“In 1899 I suffered very much from indigestion
and derangement of the stomach. The food I
ate was productive of much pain. Frequently I
was obliged to hurry from the table to reject all
that I had just swallowed. This wretched con-
dition compelled me to restrict myself to the very
plainest of fare. My complaint greatly disturbed
my rest at night, and often I have turned out of
bed and paced the floor for hours before I could
obtain a wink of sleep. I procured medicine
from the dispensary, but it did me no good. It
was the dispenser himself who advised me to try
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. My landlady j
procured a bottle of it from Mr. Allinson’s stores,
and I used it with the best possible results. The
first doses conferred upon me immediate relief,
aud by the time I had consumed a bottle and a
half (half-crown size) I was thoroughly cured and
able to enjoy my food again. It is now more
than two years ago since I was restored to health
by Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup; and I am still
well and hearty—pretty good evidence that when
the Syrup cures it does so very thoroughly. I can
now eat at any time, and to any reasonable extent,
whatever I have a fancy for; and that, too,
without any dread of after-consequences.”
South Australia has had singularly dazzling
luck in getting hold of other people’s good things.
South-west Queensland, Broken Hill (N.S.W.),
and Kalgoorlie (Westralia) have been worth mil-
lions to the State, which hasn’t much of its own to
feel good about; while up to now the other States
have not had a chance to get anything back.
Practically, the only South Australian thing
very well worth picking up, is what all the rest
of the State refers to vaguely as “our South-
East ” —a little patch of volcanic soil which grows
very fine potatoes and onions, but isn’t large
enough to grow very many of either. While the
border duties lasted Adelaide held the trade in
this district without worrying much ; but since
those went Victoria (which has rather the advan-
tage, geographically) has made the pace so will-
ing that Adelaide is getting red in the face and
wants to relieve her feelings by kicking some-
body. At present the toe is pointed towards the
Railway Commissioner, partly, perhaps, because
the South Australian Commissioner is a very meek
person who wouldn’t kick back.


No. F7989.—9ct. Gold Leaf and Wishbone
Brooch, 11a 6d.
No. Qs37.—Solid Silver Bean Shape
Match Box, 8s 6d.
No. FBl9o.—9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar,
and Heart Brooch 8a fkL
rl
«S
12
n
24
10
£
3|
4
This is one of the prettiest
and best Watches pro-
curable and will be prized
by any lady. The dial is
of lovely decorated Silver (
with Gold Finish, the
Timekeeping? excellent,
the case of Engraved
Solid Silver, price only 425.
No. 112.—Handsome 9ct. Gold and Fine
Amethyst Brooch, 18s 6d.
Oar Variety makes Suitable Selection Easy,
B
UYINQ as we do for Bight Stores, each as Well-Stocked as our Sydney one, means that we
have advantages offered us such as no Jewellery business in Australia can claim. We have
1 our own warehouse in Hatton Garden, London, manned by Experts who see more goods
in 24 hours than most buyers see in 12 months. You see thus that we can offer you the
very pick of the Home market at fascinatingly low prices. We don’t keep all the advant-
ages we get to ourselves—we pass them on to you. A most important point, and one we adhere
to is, we never sacrifice the quality for the sake of being able to quote a very low price for an
article. Quality is our first consideration. Remember this when you want anything in our line,
as quality must count with you as well as with us. Illustrated Catalogues Free on application.
No. BB34l.— Solid Silver and Pearl Book-marker, 3Jin., 4a ; larger, 6a 6d.
No. F 7550. —9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar and
Leaf Brooch, 8s 6d
No. FBlB6.—The Lateat
Lace Pin, Emu or
Kangaroo, 7a 6d.
No. F773l.—Novel Style Salt
Cellar, with Spoon, Silver-plate,
4a 6d.
w
0
mu
No. FB2ls—Cut-Glass and Solid
Silver Toilet Bottle, 5J inches
high, 22s 6d.
1 o 17006. —Oct Gold, two-bar Ornamented
Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. 0298.—Polished English Oak and Nickel-mounted Double
Inkstand, £1 ss.
No. E 4933.— Fruit Dish of Pretty
China, 7 inches square, strong
Silver-plated Stand, 7s 6d.
No. F 2956 —Silver-plated Fern
Pot, handsomely chased ;
4in., 22s 6d ; 5%in., 37s 6d.
No.
Fs9oB.—Solid Silver Bowl on Ebony Stand, 5£ inches
high, 7i inches wide, £lO 10s; in best Plate, 84s.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
No. F 4938. —Case of 2 Cut-Glass
Silver Mounted Knife Rests, 11/6.
No. FssBB.—Case containing 2 Pearl and Silver-
plated Butter Forks, 14s 6d.
No. FB7s9.—Best Quality Silver-plated Tile Centre
Teapot Stand, 10s 6d.
No. E6797.—9ct. Gold Brooch, set Sapphire, Ruby
and Diamond, 16s 6d.
No. F 8704. —Remarkable
Value. Diamond, Ruby and
Sapphire Scarf Pin or Pin
and Stud, Fine Gold Settings
£3 10s.
No. Es627.—Strong 9ct. Gold Twist Bracelet.
A Pretty Style, 32s 6d
4/2 GEORGE Jj svn.c'T
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
CKIHOPIOI
WHICH IS MADE BY
The Gramophone $ Typewriter [td.
This is a “JUNIOR rtONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
T
is well to remember this when discussing the artistic merit of sound reproducing contrivances. There is little
difficulty in reproducing a sound. There is, however, a gigantic difficulty in reproducing good music, and the actual
voices of famous singers. We would ask you to remember that THE GRAMOPHONE made by The Gramophone
and Iypewriter Ltd. does this. How do we do it? Why, because we have unlimited capital at our back, and because
we do not hesitate to obtain the services of the finest and most celebrated artistes of the day to sing for us. The better the
artiste the better the song. The public are the best judges in the world of the intrinsic value of an article. We are selling
FIVE MILLION RECORDS
per annum and why ? Because our records are real reproductions of these singers. Our catalogue includes records made
by Carusa, Platon, Benaud, David Bispham, Ben Davies, Andrew Black, Bichard Green, Joseph O’Mara, Mesdames Calve,
Suzanne Adams, Kirby Dunn, Esther Palliser, Percival Allen, Connie Ediss, and Marie Tempest. Also Dan Eeno, George
Bobey, Louis Bradfield, and Maurice Earkoa, besides hundreds of others.
*
Australian Agencies-VICTORIA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA. Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Represented all over
■< —the World.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA—
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


V
ii <#3M
§tr
THE PIANOLA
PD
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s 1 ‘ Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
ioC'OO
Q-i
I
mu
f \
=-43
v.
Will
play
any
Piano
and
any
kind
of
Music.
We are mailing free, to anyone who will ask us,
a booklet called “ Music in the Home.”
It will be of interest to every person who loves
music. It will be of particular interest to the many
thousand owners of pianos whose instruments remain
unused for months at a time, and become practically
nothing more than articles of furniture.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt cash, or
£65 on moderate monthly payments.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SYDNEY : 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
By Rail and Semaphore.
THE CASE OF PLUG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ranelagh was second suburban and block-signal
station south of Romahapa, on the main southern
line. It was stuck about quarter way down the
big incline below where the line comes out of
Ranelagh tunnel, and the back portion of the
platform and station buildings was supported on
thin, spidery piles.
It “blocked ” with Ballantyre on the south and
Kenilworth Signal Station on the north. Kenil-
worth communicated with Romahapa, the head
station of the section. At Ranelagh were inter
locking starting signals, and, owing to the steep
grade and the lack of brake-power on Maoriland
railway engines at that time, it was understood
that under no circumstances was any shunting to
take place at Hillgrove workshops, between Kenil-
worth and Ranelagh, at any hour that might make
it necessary to try and stop a heavy goods train
on that terrific incline. This was absolutely
necessary, as no heavy goods train could stop
under any circumstances.
The stationmaster was one Plug. His name
ought to have been Tank, for his capacity for
absorbing beer amounted to genius, but having a
gigantic wife and a large family (14, I think), he
was a sad example of genius denied opportunity.
Still, he did very well, Laver’s Brewery was
only twenty yards from the end of the platform,
and it was unusually liberal with its liquid. The
whole of the goods traffic at Ranelagh con-
sisted of coal and grain coming in and beer
going out. But for that brewery Plug had
assuredly died of broken heart and cracked throat.
There was also Jimmy, the cadet: mostly
known as “the blanky kid.” His life was a
misery. He sorted tickets all day long and was
the target for all the bad temper of the overworked
sub and drunken stationmaster.
I was sub-stationmaster. ,Plug was entirely
innocent of any knowledge of book-keeping, and
belonged to the old school which manned Maori-
land railways when it was hard to get men to
work for wages; when Mullocky and Gabriel’s
Gullies were yielding up fortunes in a week, and
the roaring Vogel policy had swamped the land
with borrowed cash, and all Maoriland, including
its railways, was on a mad drunk. The old hands
never quite got over that drunk.
It was pay-week when I arrived at Ranelagh,
and I was given the morning shift. The lucre was
due any time between ten a.m. and noon. About
half-past nine a large, aggressive-looking female,
with four chins, appeared in the doorway, squeezed
through it, waddled across the office and subsided
into my chair, s.
I turned on the apparition angrily, but remem-
bered a recent admonition of the District Traffic
Manager’s to cultivate tact. So, with anger in
my heart, I smiled pleasantly, bowed, and begged
to be informed what I could do for the lady.
She seemed taken back by my extreme polite-
ness. She was not accustomed to it. She made
several starts, and finally made me understand
that she was Mrs. Plug. I bowed again, and said
that I had not had the pleasure of seeing the
stationmaster that morning.
“No,” she said, “I don’t suppose as how you
have. He’s down at Laver’s Brewery, starting to
make a hog of himself. It’s a terrible thing, Mr.,
this drink. There’s Plug, a good husband and
father, but he do make an animal of himself every
pay-day; an’ if I wasn’t to come up here and draw
his pay he’d have it all spent afore he came home.
My Gawd ! it’s terrible. Don’t you marry, young
man, if you’re inclined to lush.”',
I felt sorry for this great ungainly woman with
four chins. It was so pathetic! Plug’s salary
was £156 per annum, with a free house, and out
of it that unfortunate woman had to clothe and
feed 14, and still spare enough for Plug to go out
and make a beast of himself once a month.
A few minutes later Mr. Plug staggered into
the office, hiccuped, and gravely introduced me to
his wife. Then he sat down on the cold stove and
commenced to swear at the cadet. Whenever the
block bells called he would try to get across to
take the signal, but I generally managed to antici-
pate him ; he was handicapped by having to walk
round his wife.
The trains and went. Through “passen-
gers” roared past. People called for letters and tele-
grams, and the hours dragged along, but Mrs. Plug
sat in my chair patiently, while Plug reclined on
the cold stove, his head against the pipe, cursing
the traffic office in such language that I got angry
and asked him with a snap if he was aware there
was a lady within hearing.
He looked startled. “Where?” he asked.
“Anyhow, why don’t they sit in the ladies
waiting-room and keep away from this end of the
platform ? ”
He evidently thought I referred to someone
outside, and I did not enlighten him. He swore
no more, and a few minutes later the bagcontaining
the money arrived. Mrs. Plug grabbed it, un-
locked it, counted it out, glanced at the pay-sheet,
gave me mine, handed his to the cadet, pocketed
Plug’s, and turning to him, handed him half-a-
sovereign with the admonition :
“There yer are ; go and make a hanimal of
yerself and get it over ! ” .
Plug looked at me with a most pathetic ex-
pression.
“That’s all I get out of it ! ” he said ruefully,
showing me the half-sovereign. Then he went
with alacrity.
The gigantio woman waddled away. At the
door she turned.
“ I’m sorry to have to poke me nose in where
I’ve no right to, Mr., but you can see for yer-
self how I’m just druv to it. Yer the first gentle-
man we’ve had at this statioiv. * I hopes yer’ll stay
for ever. ”
She meant it kindly too, but the thought of it
threw a gloom over me the rest of the day.
At 1 p.m. Plug failed to materialise, and I
found myself let in for a double shift. At mid-
night Mrs. Plug arrived at the office and informed
me she had discovered Plug in a state of insensi-
bility. “ He took ten shillin’s worth of draught
rum down to Laver’s, and the whole Brewery s as
tight as a lord. They mixed it with the beer,
God forgive ’em. I’ll have old Plug up here for
the first train right enough. Don’t you trouble
coming down for No. 1 unless I sends for yer.
Good-night!”
She was good as her word, and Plug worked the
morning shift for the rest of that week. 1 began
to develop an admiration for Mrs. Plug.
• » • *
Next pay-day, before I let Plug go, I wanted
guarantees that he would return by 1 p.m., and
after a long argument we compromised. I left
the station immediately, and was to return at 8.30
p.m., so that Plug could get away for the usual
purpose and have time to do it thoroughly.
He tried hard to persuade me to return at G 30.
The Lavers objected to him taking the rum to the
brewery before 6‘30. They had no objection to
Plug and the brewer getting howling drunk on
brewery beer as long as it was done after hours.
Romahapa chimes were sounding 815 when I
strolled down the long platform. I heard the
Ballantyre block call twice, and wondered if
Plug’s thirst had tempted him to leave the office.
The bell sounded a third time, and I ran for my
life. The office door was wide open. I rushed in
—and stood petrified.
Plug was down on his hands and knees on the
floor, looking in wonderment from one block to
the other. He couldn’t make out which block
was calling. The block called a fourth time, and
the man at Ballantyre gave his strokes slowly and
emphatically.
A sudden smile of recognition illuminated the
face of Plug ; he discovered it was the Ballantyre
instrument that was sounding. He went across
the office on all-fours, hauled himself up the leg
of the block table, and propping himself against it
in a kneeling position, cheerfully sounded, “ Line
clear,” and took the signal. There might have
been a dozen landslips on his own platform for all
he knew.
Once more he progressed across the office, like a
troglodyte, to the Kenilworth block, and signalled
the train through ; then he progressed some more
outside, down to the signal-levers, pulled down
the starting-signal, put a white light near the edge
of the platform, crawled inside, slammed the
door, and then the silence was only broken by a
gurgling sound.
So far he had done everything quite correctly,
but it was a purely automatic process. Suddenly
the Kenilworth block sounded “obstruction.” I
rushed in. Plug stared stupidly at the block.
There was no reflex action of the brain now, for
it was only occasionally—once in a year perhaps—
that a signal-box sounded “obstruction” after
having accepted a signal.
I rushed to the Ballantyre block and sounded
‘ ‘ obstruction ” twice, in clear sharp rings. Then
to the Ballantyre telephone, and the Scotch voice
of Macdonald trembled as he asked, “ What’s
oop ? ’ ’
“ Can’t you stop her, Mac. ? There’s something
wrong at Hillgrove, I suspect —Kenilworth’s just
‘ obstructed ’ after giving clear line.”
“She’s half-way up the hill, oot o’ sight. She
haes 39 trucks and a guard’s van, an’ me ain
brither’s brakesmaun —for the love o’ God, laddie,
try and stop her at the tunnel’s mooth.”
Kenilworth still rang “obstruction,” rang it
frantically. I stopped a second to acknowledge
it, and then, grabbing the lamp, fled outside and
up the hill towards the tunnel. As I went out of
the door, I saw Plug sitting on the floor with his
back against the leg of the desk and a puzzled
look on his bloated face.
I sprinted up that grade to the tunnel as I
never sprinted before. I could hear the train
snorting up the hill the other side. Each stroke of
the piston-rods was plainly audible, and in imagin-
ation I could see the long-bearded old driver
petting and cooing the big Tynesider as though it
were a horse, all unconscious that he would meet a
red light at the end of the tunnel, and perhaps,
half-a-mile below, Death waiting.
The train had entered the tunnel; the long,
regular piston strokes had become a roaring sound ;
there was a rhythmical sounding of rail joints ;
the three short, sharp whistles sounded for the
brakes, and then her head-light streamed oyer the
track and showed me wildly waving a red light.
There was a screech of brakes hard on. I looked
up at the engine as she thundered past above me.
The driver’s head was thrust out at the side win-
dow, his beard streamed behind him, and on the
hawk-like face there was a look of grim despair.
His eyes were puckered up, his brows were down,
and he was straining to see what was in front—all
in a flash the picture burnt itself on my memory
for ever.
Every wheel streamed with fire. Brakesman
Macdonald was climbing from one truck to
another, letting down the hand-brakes, and, as
the sounding of the rail-joints died away, I caught
a glimpse of the guard holding the wheel-brake at
the back of the van.
God help them ! they could no more stop than
they could leap over the obstruction, whatever it
was. My trembling legs almost refused to carry
me back to the office, but I made an effort, and,
pulling myself together, ran, in a weak, pitiful
sort of a way, to where Plug sat on the floor
staring stupidly from one block to the other.
“ Glad you’ve come, old man ; these dam blocks
are going fair mad. Both the somethings are
calling at once, and hang me if I know what it’s
all about. They’re waiting for me at Laver’s, so
I’ll just leave you to it.”
lie went out and waddled or crawled somehow
out of sight. I knew I ought to do something. I
felt that I must do something. So I rang up
Kenilworth. A wild yell of delight came through
the instrument, and then another voice with an
awful Scotch accent.
‘ ‘ Mon, that was the nearest shave I hae had in
thirty year’s drivin’. Ah, laddie, if ye had no
come to the tunnel we had a’ been renderin’ our
’count at the throne o’ grace the now.”
Then the Kenilworth man explained that a stop
block had been left off at one of the Hillgrove
sidings and a dozen trucks had run down the line,
and got off the rails, and were piled in a heap
quarter of a mile south of Kenilworth. They
had managed to stop the Goods just as she
bumped them.
* * * *
At Romahapa I was received cordially by the
Traffic Office juniors, and admitted straight to
the Traffic Manager’s private office. My engrossed
report was lying on the table in front of him. He
went on glancing over it as I entered, and I stood
waiting till he should be pleased to notice my
presence. It was fully five minutes before he
glanced up from the paper and said :
“You’ll get yourself disliked if you indulge in
this sort of thing.”
“ What —preventing smashes ? ”
“No, you idiot; reporting your station-
masters.”
“ I expect to,” I said.
He got angry.
“You’re a troublesome fellow. You seem to
be deficient, somehow, in judgment. Here you
go and spoil a real good action by this sort of
report. You just go back to Ranelagh and mind
your own business. Keep your accounts straight,
your books clean and your batteries fully charged,
and you’ll get on much better, be more popular,
and never in rows. Good-day ! ”
He touched the bell and a tall cadet entered. I
was too furious to speak, and the rusii of words
stuck in my throat. I heard the cadet requested
to show in Mr. J. Smith, and somehow, next
moment, I found myself out in the public office,
surrounded by an eager crowd of juniors.
I listened to them in a dazed sort of way and
without a word wandered downstairs and back to
Ranel igh, where Plug greeted me with the remark
that I hadn’t been long.
* * * *
The new District Traffic Manager was stark and
business-like. He made a big fight to stem the
tide of beer that was threatening to destroy the
efficiency of the service. He issued a special
circular to the effect that the wages of drunkenness
on duty was sudden sack. _
On pay-day I avoided the station as though it
was infested with the plague. I didn’t want to
see Plug drunk, and I felt certain he would be.
Apparently he made a big struggle, but at 10.30
he was properly screwed. Ballantyro. signalled
the southern Goods, which was running about
three hours late. Plug promptly signalled her on
to Kenilworth. At the top of the hill one of the
piston rods blew out, or something like that, and
as the engine couldn’t haul the train over the knot
of the hill the only thing to be done was to slide
back as quietly as possible to Ballantyre by
gravitation.
Under no conditions did it ever take a tram
more than 35 minutes to come from Ballantyre to
Kenilworth, and when three-quarters of an hour
had passed Plug’s professional instincts became
uneasy. Was Kenilworth never going to clear
that block ? He waited a few minutes longer, and
then called up Kenilworth on the telephone and
asked why he did not clear the block.
“ Because the train hasn’t passed, you crimson
idiot! ” said the angry man at Kenilworth.
Then that angry man grew suddenly alarmed.
The frightful possibility that the great train with
its crew might be lying at the bottom of the bank
somewhere between 'Kenilworth and Ranelagti
appalled him.
“Bay, Plug, has the Goods passed?” ()
“Passed —of course she has ; 12 minutes ago,
replied Plug, who took things for granted. For
that matter a megatherium might have passed or
stayed away without him knowing anything to
the contrary. The man at Kenilworth clutched
the wall, and then sprang to the Romahapa tele-
phone and howled to the traffic clerk that a train
had got lost. At the same moment the manager
was reading Ballantyre’s telegraphed report of
the mishap and the information that the Goods
was back at that station.
They quieted the man at Kenilworth, and then
called up Ranelagh to inquire what lie meant Vy
saying the Goods had passed his station when it
had never even reached there.
Mr. Plug merely hiccuped into the instrument.
Twenty minutes later I was hauled out of bed
to relieve Mr. Plug, suspended for drunkenness
on duty.
His political influence must have been mighty.
Even the D.T.M. couldn’t get him sacked ; but
he got him shifted to where there was no block.
HERMES.


ACUTE ECZEMA CURED
After Many Treatments had Failed.
“I gradually sank into a state of ill-health,” says Elizabeth Corkran, of No. 8 Milton
Place, Richmond, Melbourne. ‘‘My blood became impoverished, and unsightly 'pininl
and blotches appeared on my face and neck. The doctors whom I consulted pronounced
it to be an acute form of Eczema, and, although they treated me for some time, my health
gradually grew worse. I could scarcely eat any food, and what I did eat disagreed with
me, and the suffering I endured at times was dreadful. I also tried various medicines
advertised, but without result, and I was altogether in a very despondent mood until one
day, I received a pamphlet wherein I noticed where fellow sufferers had been cured of
similar complaints to my own by the judicious use of Bile Beans and Zam-Buk Ointment
and I decided to give them a fair trial. I underwent a course of the Beans, and at th'
same time applied Zam-Buk Ointment to the blemishes on my face and neck. After &
week of this treatment I noticed some improvement, which became more pronounced week
after week, until now—just two months since I began the treatment—lndigestion has
entirely left me, and my skin is now quite clear, and, as you may imagine, such a perfect
and speedy cure came as a great surprise to me, after so many other treatments had proved
unavailing.” v
ZAM-BUK OINTMENT will be found a certain cure for Cuts, Burns
Boils, Bruises, Running 1 Sores, Piles, Eczema, Barcoo, Rheumatism*
Lumbago, Neuralgia, Ringworms, Pimples, Blackheads, Chapped and
Cracked Hands, Chilblains, etc. As an Embrocation ZAM-BUK is un-
equalled. Prom all Chemists and Stores, 1/6 per pot, or post paid from
the Zam-Buk Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A FREE SAMPLE.
The Proprietors have so much -faith in the efticacy of ZAM-BUK
OINTMENT that they are prepared to forward A FREE SAMPLE
POT on receipt of a penny stamp tc cover return postage.
Mention The bulletin.
3^
3
$
fa
%
'ess?
.Vi
m
wm
%
mm
m
mm
wmm
mm
m
m
m
■
m.
m
m.
% H
??
ijHIl
;k.
;t4 •
m
•-K
ft.
fta. ®
J>%:,
Aroha.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
with the years, oh, what is won ?
At Bethel a memorial stone—
A grave at Cave Machpelah.
Hark ! X hear the south-wind straying
Through the leaf-twined lattice bars,
And the fronds upon the palm trees
Shimmer ’mid the glint of stars,
And the odor of the sweet vine,
Tall and slender,
Holds me silent, till the few words,
Free and tender,
You once whispered, come like spectres
From the long past, Aroha.
I am standing where, in far years,
Through life’s flood ways love was flowing,
Every touch of earth and spirit
Freshest gladnesses bestowing;
For our earthly boon seemed dearest,
Brightest ever,
With our promise in low musio
Not to sever,
O, a strength of good lay lurking
In thy sweet lips, Aroha !
Moan I that the gleams of joyance
Brief as morning’s glow have been ?
You were angel, I was earth-stained,
All the spans that rolled between.
When your spirit passed and left me
Deep in sorrow,
I grew weary of the march-roll
Of to-morrow—
Clouds of mystery have chilled me,
I am lonely, Aroha.
Long I’ve wandered and I’m weary
Of the hollowness and stress,
Of the grave’s life and the shadowed
Pain-gulched brow of bitterness ;
Weary of the axe-head’s dulling
By blow on blow,
Of the grinding and the mill-wheels’
Chafe to and fro;
Heart of tenderness ! 0 for thee
Death was safer, Aroha !
Yet withal thy spirit’s radiance
Hath had power to keep from stain
Summer years of red-flushed splendor,
Winter’s grimness dashed with rain.
Do the precious links that tied us
Still entwine thee ?
Among seraphs art thou restless
Till thou find me ?
From thine heights—from gulfs that drown me,
Love is calling, Aroha.
n.s.w.
JOHN MARDEN.
Bill’s Selection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A PAR in the Bulletin (28/2/’O3) about a selector
whose whole year’s work consisted of putting in
12 posts, recalls to my memory a selector who beat
that record easily. He put in only one post,
although he put that same post in many times.
It was this way: Bill Baggs (I’d like to oall
him Reginald for a change, but his name really
was Bill) had saved £lOO or so by dint of “hard
toil,” as he called it, and rigid economy in the
matter of clothing. Toil, as Bill understood it,
meant creeping around a boundary fence, and
occasionally mending a broken wire.
His ambition was to retire to a selection, where
he could sit down with his pipe and watch his
wool growing. Agriculture had no place in his
scheme. “Only mugs went farming.” So he
invested a portion of his savings in an
application for the full 2560 acres of grazing
country in the Central Division. After survey,
which, as usual, was completed in about
twelve months —when the former lessee had eaten
it bare—Bill made a start on his selection. At
the end of a month he had succeeded in finding a
name for it —Laurel Park. He had got it from a
page of a penny novelette wrapped around his
tobacco from the store.
“It’s an orlright name, ain’t it ? ” said Bill, with
aglow of pride in the discovery. “And when
I’ve shifted a few of the ironstone boulders lying
around, and sown a few laurels, it’ll just fit it.”
Bill put in another month or so roaming around
his estate in search of a suitable site for the home-
stead of Laurel Park. In my rides abroad a
cheerful “ Coo-ee ! ” often guided me to the top of
an adjacent ridge, where I would find Dill seated
on a boulder admiring the view—whilst, in his
mind’s eye, his future homestead grew up around
him.
“Reckon I’ve hit on the right spot at last,” he
would exclaim joyously, “I’ll have the house just
here, with a wide verandah facing the west, so
that when I’ve grubbed up all those trees out of
the way I’ll be able to look right across the river
to Gainer’s pub. The woolshed I’ll shove up just
over there, where those two iron-barks are dead in
line. They’ve both got forks about the same
height, which’ll save me putting in a couple of
posts for the wall plate. The stable will be just
over there, and that big yellow-box on the ground
will make one side of my cattle-yard.” Bill
would be heaving sticks and rocks about all the
time to indicate the exact positions of the pro-
posed buildmgs, or drawing ground-plans with
his finger in the dust.
I noticed, in course of time, that any site pos-
sessing natural features that suggested the saving
of labor was always favored by Bill. If it hap-
pened to possess only a couple of saplings growing
close enough together to fix a grindstone on, he
would hold forth at length about its splendid
advantages as a building site with all the enthu-
siasm of a witness (witli land to sell) giving
evidence before the Federal capital commissioners.
I had ceased to meet Bill in my rambles for
some weeks, when I heard he had at last fixed
upon the ideal spot for his homestead, and had
actually commenced work. Someone had met
him shifting a roughly squared corner-post with
the help of his old saddle-hack. He had found
an abandoned collar and had made the rest of the
harness after his own fashion. Like Bill’s saddle
and leggings, it was a practical illustration of
what could be done with green hide and fencing
wire. Some days elapsed after the receipt of
this news before I visited Laurel Park, and when
I called I was surprised to find Bill still at work
upon the solitary post I had heard about.
“Just wanted an excuse for a ‘smoko,’” he
exclaimed, throwing down his rammer and draw-
ing his pipe from his belt. “ I’ve been hard at it
all day laying out the homestead.” Heproudly
pointed out the parlor, kitchen, and storeroom he
had sketched in the dust. At my suggestion he
proceeded to add on a bathroom and a spare bed-
room, and was hard at it when the mailman rode
up with some Land Board correspondence for Bill,
and anxiously inquired if he was expected to chase
that blanky post of his all over the country.
“This is about the fourteenth time I’ve had to
track it through the scrub,’’ exclaimed the
aggrieved postman to me, while Bill grinned
apologetically ; “ When he gets that dashed post
upended on a new pitch, he puts in so much time
admiring it that before he can get a mate for it
his waterhole dries up, or he finds it’s too stony
for a garden, or the sun shines too much through
the droring-room winder, or some other blanked
foolishness, and I come along with his mail and
find his address is nothing but a hole in the
ground, with the track of a post being drawn
away from it. The department won’t stand it, so
I tell him straight if I find only a hole at this
address the next time I bring his mail, I’ll just
drop his flaming letters into it and leave ’em.”
I left Bill assuring the doubting mailman that
this was his permanent address. He conducted
him through the house, and drew his attention to
the size and comfort of the various rooms.
A month later I met Bill riding the boundary
of a neighboring run with a straining fork on his
shoulder. “And what about Laurel Park?” I
inquired, as he filled his pipe from my plug.
“ Oh,, it’s there yet,” he replied cheerfully.
“ Fact is, I went into town for a week’s spell, and
when I rode out to the selection again, and saw
that post by moonlight, it looked so dashed lonely
sticking up there in the middle of 2560 acres that
I hadn’t the heart to go on with the contract, so I
just came back and got on here at my old billet.”
That was years ago, but the post is still known
as “Bill’s Selection.”
CRIPPS CLARK.
The Bush Dentist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A few years ago I was sent from Sydney
to take temporary charge of the telegraph-
office in the little saw-milling town of B ,
on Myall Lakes. A cold caught on the trip
brought on toothache. After two nights’ agony,
I asked one of the mill-hands if there was
a dentist in the town. When I had made it plain
that a dentist was a man who pulled teeth, I was
taken down to Sandy M‘Gill’s, who, I was
assured, was “ d n good at it. On the way I
learned that Sandy was the local blacksmith, but
in addition filled the positions of horse-doctor and
dentist with much success.
Sandy, dressed in moleskins and flannel shirt,
informed us when we called that he was just
washing his feet to go to bed. I was sorry to
disturb him, “ but the pain was awful.”
“ Come in and let’s have a look. Which of the
s is it ? ”
Sandy’s fingers forced my jaws asunder. “ Oh,
it’ll come all right,” he observed, after a brief
examination. “I’d fetch it if its roots were
twined round yer neck. Here Joe! ’’—the whole
M'Gill family had assembled— “ run down to the
forge and get the little pinchers—the ones I pulled
them teeth from MTherson’s black mare with.”
Perhaps I had turned pale, for Sandy said
soothingly: “ Have a drop of whisky while he’s
away ? Good stuff—made on the Lakes.”
I was a teetotaller, but the dentist helped him-
self liberally. “I think yer better come out on
the verandah to have it out. I generally pulls
’em out there, unless it’s kids. Things gets broke
in here sometimes, and the missus don’t like it.
See that winder ? Broke three panes in the top
sash last one I pulled in here. Bring yer chair
with yer.”
Then Joe returned and we all went to the veran-
dah, the missus carrying a candle, Sandy the
Eincers and the bottle. After some engineering, the
eavy pincers were inserted in my mouth. Then
protest or resistance became useless, “Here,
missus, hold the light round here, till I make sure
I ain’t got his tongue. D n you, what are you
doin’ ?”—this to the missus in response to a mute
protest on my part when some of the hot tallow
from the candle, also “made on the Lakes,”
dropped in my eye. Sandy removed the tallow
with his pocket-knife and adjusted the pincers to
his satisfaction.
“Hello, boys ! Come to see the fun?” The
news that the “Lightning Squirt” was getting a
tooth out down at Sandy’s had attracted a small
crowd of bullockies and mill-hands. Sandy spent
a few minutes talking shop, to give as many as
possible time to arrive before he began. “ Well,
if there’s no more coming, we’ll start,” he an-
nounced at last. “Hold on to yer chair hard.
Alick and Joe ! get hold of the chair-legs. Now,
altogether ! ”
The boys held on to the chair-legs, I held on to
the chair, and Sandy held on to the tooth. Down
the verandah we went, making a running fight of
it. Sandy paused at the end of the verandah for
breath. “By George !” he remarked, as he wiped
the perspiration from his face ; “it’s a tough ’un.
Here, missus ! bring me a drink.”
I looked at my torturer. He had settled down
into his collar. Remonstrance on my part would
be useless.
“Now, then! Altogether, once more.” Back
again up the verandah we went, the chair creak-
ing, the boys outside cheering, and Sandy forging
ahead. Still the tooth was immovable. The
boys were beginning to indulge in pleasantries, and
suggested a team of bullocks, or getting steam up
at the mill winch. Sandy’s professional pride was
wounded, and I saw the look in his eyes which
meant do or die. I resigned myself to the latter.
“ Yer better twist yer legs round the verandah-
post this time,” he directed. “I think it’ll
stand the strain. Missis ! another drink.” Out-
side the fence I could hear the money changing
hands freely, but whether the wagering was on
the strength of the verandah-post, the boys.
Sandy or the chair, I could not make out.
“Now, once more!” The strain was terrific.
The verandah-post creaked, the galvanised-iron
roof rattled. Click ! click ! I thought I could
feel my vertebrae yielding to Sandy’s strength.
“ Something’s coming.” The dentist’s voice was
exultant. Something did come. It took me
five minutes to recover. Then I saw Sandy
triumphantly exhibiting a row of teeth in the
pincers to the admiring audience.
“Good Lord !” I cried, “how many have you
got.”
“Only four,” he answered; “four beauties
It’s always as well to get two or three on each side
when yer at it, yer sure to get the right one then
and yer can’t never trust the blessed things when
once they start aching.”
N.s.w.
YELLOW BOX.


A Stringof Complaints
Languor, Depression, General Undoing, Loss of Appetite, Weakness,—
A String of Complaints Due to Hot Weather,
SP»
Mr. G. J. Plenty, of Bowden, South.
Australia, sends us his photograph
and says:
“ I have a regular string of com-
plaints every summer. The excessive
heat prostrates me. I feel languid
and depressed and have a general un-
doing of my health. A great many
of my friends complain in the same
way. Lately I have found that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla overcomes all these bad
effects and enables me to go through
the hot season without any trouble.
It revivifies my system, purifies my
blood, and gives me an unusual de-
gree of strength. lam sure no one
will be disappointed with this medi-
cine, for it is not only a preventive
but also a powerful cure of dis-
ease.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Keep your blood in good condition, keep your digestion strong, and keep
your nervous system vigorous. Then you will not suffer from the weakening
effects of hot weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these purposes.
It cools the blood, tones up the digestive apparatus, puts force into the
nervous system. And it fortifies you against hot weather, cold weather, or
changeable w r eather. It gives strength to ward off disease.
Don’t be deceived by trying some other Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment
with imitations. Hold fast to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla Ayer’s.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Tonic for All Seasons of the Year
dyer’s Pills are a purely vegetable laxative for the whole family.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m
&
b
&
o
■
M
fin
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.'
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
fp
L
ime
The basis of which is “ Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to
all other Sauces.
AGENTS —Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
pHWs
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such ;is Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills,. Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos'iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, fee. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged te be “ WORTH A
GUINJBA A BOX.” _
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud oe Health the Whole Physical Enbrgy of the human frame, these
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medievnem
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is and 2s 9d each.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR'S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
“Madeinhalf-
a-minute by
the mere ad-
dition of boil-
ing water"
CRYSTALS
IN PINT
PACKE I S.
Manufacturers— JOHN MOIR & SON, LTD., LONDON, ABERDEEN and SEYILLE
Head Office: 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON, E.C.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Comer George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
/ . , ■ ■
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30 ,
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors oi)iy pay for wbat tbcy actOally batfc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments : BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.-Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST.
9
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
y
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.F.E., L.R.CS.E,
L.P.F.S.G-., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ ELM LEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizaboth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disea.se, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCER ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book rs required.
Price, Ss.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
"ELMLEY HOUSE,” *5l ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
MEMORANDA
W. J. Lambie and H. H. Spooner, with ten
others, are reported to Eng. Institute of Journalists as
subjects of the projected memorial to newspaper corres-
pondents who died in the African war.
An article in The Eng. Illustrated stresses the
power of the Dead Hand over English journalism. The
writer says that the character of Bond. Times, Sta,ndard,
Daily News, Morning Post, and Daily Chronicle is made
up of traditions which succeeding editors and staffs
regard as inviolable. “ What have we said before on this
subject? ’’was one of John Walter’s regular inquiries.
And when The Standard, a few years ago, to the surprise
of its proprietor, its literary editor, and everyone else,
published a leading article depreciating Meredith, it was
privately explained that the article was written without
animus, did not represent anybody’s opinion, but merely
continued the judgment passed upon Meredith by The
Standard in'lB6l, soon after the appearance of Richard
Feoerel!
This faith in the Gospel of Mummy is doubtless a rem-
nant of that instinct of ancestor-worship fixed in us by
the age-long practice of prehistoric progenitors. Sunday
pilgrims to suburban cemeteries, wandering happily
among the tombstones, are often unstimulated by affec-
tion for a buried relative. Without knowing it, they are
satisfying lingering instinct. “ I am so happy among
graves,” a woman will say who never heard of the rever-
ence due to manes. And Maude Victoria, trysting in the
shadow 7 of shapeless statuary, feels that her lover’s pledge
is sanctified by the neighbourhood of the Dead. “ Eppur
si muove ! ’’—Maude Victoria’s name is a proof.
Mummy will not prevail, but Mummy is mighty. Con-
sider the enthusiasm for Shakespear’s bones displayed
by N.S.W. Shakespear society. Shakespear’s bones have
undoubted literary value. A man interested in literature
and Shakespear is" necessarily interested in the scrutiny
and comparison of Shakespear’s origins, in ascertaining
how dross became gold in the alchemy of Shakespear’s
brain. But Mummy is always persuading his worshippers
to neglect the substance for the shadow, the future for
the past. In finding the legend-root some of us are apt
to miss the poetry-flower. Then, a man should gaze
forward, not back perpetually. Lot’s wife was salted :
take care you are not petrified. Even a moderately
Chinese devotion to great-great-Grandfather may undo
you. Your parents were fine fellows : they made you ;
but look to your children.
And aha! . . . Hope! In N.S.W. military manoeuvres
at Easter “ some of the [Australian] Scotchmen ” —not to
be targets of opposing marksmen —“adopted the pre-
caution of wearing their hirsute tassel at the rear.” A
fine symbol. Put Scotland behind, put Ireland behind,
put England behind—not as sources of inspiration, but
as goals of aspiration—and go forward with Australia !
James Chalmers the missionary’s autobiography
and letters have human value as well as religious ; but the
sale-value is religious. The cheaper edition at 3s. 6 d. will
be circulated more widely than a corellican novel.
“ What shall I do with my boy ? ” Make him a religious
publisher ! The Sunday-school audience can enrich him
at a single volume. Buying “something religious” is
Laodicea’s automatic-heater. The warmth of The Land
and, the Book on a drawing-room table may even
bring kitchen-Bridget to the housemaid’s-knee of
recantation. Besides .. . visitors! Si sanctitatem
quseris, circumspice. Who could distrust the careful
duster of Life of Luther in full morocco? Under the
shadow 7 of John Knox the handicapped Christian may
emulate a Hebrew in the shadow of his nose. So pub-
lishing piety pays ; and the servants oi the bookselling
Achish say unto him, Is not this David the king of the
land ? did they not roll one to another of him in news-
papers, saying, Saul Caine hath slain his thousands, and
David Sheldon his ten thousands ? Once, a Bible w'as the
believer’s library, literature’s be-all and end-all. Every
book added betokens slackening of the single heart,
change of the single aim, and exemplifies the advance of
unbelief. All grist to the publisher, who finds that the
thinner the religious layer, like glue, the better it sticks.
“Another suicide in the Yarra ! ” The Yarra
is too accessible. Its use should be prohibited under
Section 3 of Vic. Poisons Act.
The joke about Marcel Prevost, analyst of the
only-half-a-virgins, is that just before the lady shot at bni
he had published Les Lettres a Framboise, in which he dis-
cussed the education of girls seriously and paternaiiy.
Prevost has passed the critical fortieth year at which
Dumas fils recommends us to give up w'ild oats, and it
seems wrong that Nemesis should hit him just when he is
commencing to cultivate small domestic potatoes. One
relapses so easily.
A.G.S.


WATERPROOF GOODS
Coats
Rubber Boots
Goloshes
It’s easier to buy a Waterproof Coat or Goloshes than to
pay a doctors bill through getting wet.
We make a speciality of these goods, and have opened all
the newest Waterproof Wearables for the season.
All are High-grade and Moderately Priced.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE AND PRICE LIST
FREE ON APPLICATION.
PERDRIAU & CO.
RUBBER riERCHANTS,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN "'STORY BOOK:
Price 4s 6d, postage 6d.
CURIOUS
BOOKS
PHOTOS.
The Best Address for
English, French,
German
Books and Photos .
Apply—
-116 BOX, PARIS.
2/- for Catal. and Miniat
Apply 116 BOX, PARIS.
LADIES.
WRITK KOR VALUABLE FREE
concerning yourselves.
Address L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Mclbourno
eo
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
■W. c. ELDBIDG-E & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
te&SM «
«*
i&fc
»•:
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
i l/Ipf !■!!<! 1 I 'V;*
J. & J. MAXFIELD, PltorßS., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
pm
:
■-
■
I
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
fov Sa’e a,Kx<aL -fco arrive
Have
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 435 Bourke Street.
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors, Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers’
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shaf ing, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil, Erunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
PARKE & LACY GO.
LIMITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
IKT STOCK:
Knowles Steam Pumps, ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors,
Nagle Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return
Tubular Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging
Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls,
Cates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Huntington Quartz
Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and
Mill Supplies.
Asd at San Francisco and London. 60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Bushman
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
and Buccaneer
By FRANK RBNAR.
n.:.. -1/1 Post W EBWARBS, DUNLOP A 08.>
PriCe 1/1 Free. V SYiNEY
9
-y-: . \ *<• • ‘I ' '
Sihb, 51" x 3i w x 5".
We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE—
Spow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton & Co. Ltd.
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT,
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
*v
Auctioneer's, Commission
and Produce Merchants.
and Live Stock Agents,
Goods forwarded and received from any Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
THE
((
99
The simplest
and most effec-
tive method for
dry crushing on
a small scale.
Invaluable to
Prospectors.
Made of Best
Hardened Steel.
“I regard it as
the best hand pul-
veriser which I have
ever seen.”
L A. ASHCROFT,
Assayer,
Broken Hill Pty. Co.
No. 2 Power
Machine
will crush 2
to 3cwt. ore
per hour.
Full Particulars on application to
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd Sole Agents,
71 Clarence-st., SYDNEY.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Trewhella Bros.’
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Log's to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, ana the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Price
Double Purchase Jack 4 65 -
» » » 675 ■
Single „ „ 2 40 -
With AUTOMATIC LOWERING GEAR, 5/- extra
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victoria,
or H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
