

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout,
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
"
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity."
The Lancet.
E£. O-o WATE.mS 4Z> CO.,
107 Kent Street, Syaney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAREN’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine.
*
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE-A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
71'>V}eorcre-st., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° M pm street, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for J. & H. McLaren, Leeds, England, Makers of Bteam Ploughing Taokle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Speoial Work.
We Btook and have to arrive McLaren’B Compound Traction Engines; RUBTOH'B Portable Horizontal and Vertical Steam Engines;
BRSADSENT’B Hydro Extractors; KIROHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Maohlnery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Explosive. Cor. CLARENCE & KINC STS., SYDNEY
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
-•tm-
fiadley’s Orient fiotel.
DUNEDIN, NZ
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
H.M. the King’s
Jury of Experts
awarded them
highest honors
London Exhibi-
tion-
“The Lancet”
says: “ Pure and
genuine, and
specially suitable
for Invalids.’’
PERFECT
T^WATER|
ASSISTS
IDIGESTIONI
■ HOULD
|BE|
ICE D
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
The Australian Sailorman’s 800k —
E. J. BRADY’S
“Che Slays of many Slaters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
ss. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDM a SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q'nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
NG C9Y.lt
1
AND 4
&NV
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
m
PROOF
USE
Head Office:
10 BLIGH ST., SYDMEY
Rapidly Gaining in Public Favor.
A Splendid Spirit of Undoubted
Quality at Moderate Cost.
¥.
BY POST, A MEDICAL
TREATISE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address —
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
TTaICT -
SPOONER’S
fe m i
A'*
i:
::i !«
aSs»i*saa
SPOONER’S
<
x§&
*
*
*■** "•**++*
IUtEHT LEATHER BOOTS
*CUZ£9R»OSW
9H w» '»••«•>.>'
tV.I'.l I HiZii-i—.«H-rt- M» •"••••!■»
*1
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning 1 and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing lor
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing’s,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, ete.
The Bulletin
Vol. 24.—N0. 1208.]
[Saturday, April 11, 1903
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Booh trade Jldwrtisements,
The Bulletin Booklets.
“Cbe Bulletin Booklets ”
COMPRISE—
I. The Hidden Tide. By Roderic Quinn
Out of Print.
11. A Rose of Regret. By James Hebblethwaite
A few copies remain.
111. The Circling Hearths. By Roderic Quinn
A few copies remain.
IV. Dreams in Flower. By Louise Mack
Issue almost exhausted.
V. The West Wind. By Hubert Church
Just published.
These booklets of Verse form a handsome
series in demy Bvo., printed on heavy toned
paper, with "decorated cover ; enveloped.
They contain from 32 to 48 pp. each, with
“ A Personal Note.” The Bulletin Book-
lets are indispensable to lovers of Aus-
tralasian poetry.
Note. —The editions op The Bulletin
Booklets akb limited to 500 or fewer
COPIES FOR SALE, NUMBERED. THESE EDITIONS
WILL NOT BE RE-ISSUED, AND MUST BECOME
RARER YEAR BY YEAR.
Che Circling dearths
By Roderic Quinn
Of The Hidden Tide, a former booklet by the
same author (now out of print), W. B. Yeats
wrote that it displayed ‘ ‘ real imaginative energy. ”
The Circling Hearths contains several pieces of
verse which rank highly in Australian literature,
nd thb'whole collection is worthy of notice.
Price, Is. 6<i. ; pottage, Id.
H Rose of Regret
By James RebbUtbwaite
“James Hebbleth waite’s verses are the poetical
expression of a gentle scholar’s soul. From the
fever of our time lie is healed by the books he
befriends; and in his lappel of regret he wears,
not rue, but a rose.”
“ Like the scent of violet,
Subtly siveet with all regret,
Love and Spring they pass away —
Ah me, well a-day ! ’’
Price, Is. Qd. ; postage, Id.
Dreams in flower
By Eouise Black
The author is well known in Australia as a
writer of prose fiction. This is her first collection
of.verse. It is handsomely printed in the style of
earlier Booklets, and the size is enlarged. It con-
tains all the best of the author’s work in verse-
form during ten years.
Price, 2s. 6 d.; postage, 2d.
the (Best iUind
By fiubert Gburcb
Church’s work in verse is distinguished by
a tender grace of sentiment and expression that is
still rare among A ustralasian writers. This booklet
(in the enlarged size) will be found a worthy com-
panion to those which have preceded it.
Price, 2*. 6 d.; postage, 2d.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 214 George Street, Sydney.
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS MAIL.
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Capes, Castle in Spain, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Hume, Coin of King Kdward VII, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Neville, Penal Servitude, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Wvllarde, Story of Eden, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Le Queux, The Seven Secrets, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Boyd, With Clipped Wings, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
War'den, An Outsider’s Year, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Crommelin, Crimson Lilies, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Bailev, Karl of Erbach, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Norris, The Pit, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p, 6d.
Boothby’s Connie Burt, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Kilmarnock, Ferelith, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Waineniann, By a Finnish Lake, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Speight, Her Ladyship, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no Cocaine or
other Poisonous Drug.
COLDS,
LOSS OF VOICE,
BRONCHITIS,
and all Affections of
the Throat and Lungs.
Zo
The Great Antiseptic
Remedy for the Cure
of INFLUENZA and
PREVENTION of CON-
SUfIPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
Sold by all Chemists, tins, 1/6.
Sole Manufacturer: Q. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Australia.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. Agents in all the Australian States and New Zealand.
Melbourne and West Australia .. .. FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.
th Australia
.. FAULDING & CO.
FAIRTHORNE & CO.
Hobart A. P. MILLAR & SON
New Zealand .. ... .. SHARLAND & 00., Ltd.
THE RED PAGE.
BLUEBELLS.
“ One day, one day, I ’ll climb that distant hill
And pick the blue-bells there ! ”
So dreamed the child who lived beside the rill,
And breathed the lowland air.
“ One day, one day, when I am old I’ll go
And climb the mountain where the blue-bells blow 1 r
“ One day ! one day ! The child was now a maid,
A girl with laughing look:
She and her lover sought the valley-glade
Where sang the silver brook.
" One day,” she cried, “ love, you and I will go
And reach that far hill where the blue-bells blow l ”
Years passed. A ivoman now, with wearier eyes,
Gazed towards that sun-lit hill.
Tall children clustered round her. How time flies!
The blue-bells blossomed still.
She ’ll never gather them ! All dreams fade so.
We live and die, and still the blue-bells blow.
GEORGE BARLOW.
MONARCHS DYING!
IN its issue of February 15, Reynolds’s News-
paper stresses the fact of King Edward’s con-
tinued ill-health. His constitution has broken
down, and “the experts know that Edward VII
will have but a short reign.” No whisper of the truth
breaks the conspiracy of silence preserved by other
English journals, sycophants of the Court. Queen
Victoria was torpid, dazed, and imbecile for months
before her death—a typical victim of senile decay ; yet
she was carried, moribund, to solemn function after
function, while the Press congratulated her upon the
health she had lost, the speeches that she never made,
and the duties that were discharged by her underlings.
Doubtless King Edward will die in the odour of similar
mendacity. The history of his postponed coronation
is a sufficient token. On the Sunday before the date
fixed, when all other English newspapers were announc-
ing the King's excellent health, Reynolds’s published the
news that he was seriously ill, and that the coronation
ceremony could not take place. The Press Association
wired for confirmation to the King’s private secretary,
General Sir Henry Ponsonby, who wired back a denial.
The next day King Edward underwent the operation for
perityphlitis !
THE REAL KING AND QUEEN
The real king and queen bear little likeness to
the false king and queen that one sees in the re-touched
photographs of “ loyal ” journals, and reads of in
“loyal” paragraphs. King Edward is in his sixty-second
year ; but he has lived his life, and appears older.
A short, stout, German-looking, German-speaking
man - : his height is sft. 4in. ; his weight before
last year’s illness was about 18 stone ; his blood
is two parts Scotch, two parts Scandinavian, 1024 parts
German; like the Prince of Wales, he says “de man,”
“my tear vater.” His face is fleshy and sallow ; his head
bald ; his beard quite white. At the time of his corona-
tion he looked sleepy, intelligent, human, humane—a
bonhomme debonair—“ a jolly good fellow.” As a man
of the world, he is wise : it is likely, as alleged, that to
his influence England owes the ending of the war in South
Africa on the terms asked by the Australian Anti-War
League, and the projected settlement of the Irish land
question for the benefit of the tenantry. But Queen
Alexandra !—the woman miserable, the wretched victim
of nervous disease, the sad Queen who said at Victoria’s
death, “ I have been out of it for years past; I’m deaf now,
and lame : what can a throne do for me ! ” Deaf, arid lame,
and bald, and toothless, and painted, and padded—with
her necklace constantly worn to hide her throat, and her
false neck and shoulders to preserve the illusion of youth
in public—no one could have dreamed a more tragic
spectacle than she presented on the day of the coronation
ceremony. Her eyes were frantic with suffering. Her
anguish seemed intenser than that of the writhing figures
of the Laocoon, more terrible than that of Prometheus
upon the rock, for she had still to smile, with the serpent’s
coils around her; to smile ! while bit by bit the vultures
ate her heart.
THE LOWERING CLOUD
Queen Alexandra looks what she aoubtless is —a
good and noble woman ; but the tragedy of her life !
“ A jolly good fellow ” does not make, from a woman’s
point of view, the most satisfactory of husbands.
Then the cry of the monarchy for heirs, what-
ever a woman’s weakness. Her first son dying at
his birth, a year after her marriage ; her second
son reared painfully to manhood —then he too dying,
degenerate; her third son, the good-natured Prince
of Wales, bearing the same fatal seeds of decay, shadowed
by the same fatal doom, an invalid at thirty-seven. Hi s
eldest son a weakling—eight years old—and what in
prospect when King Edward dies, if King George should
not long survive him? All monarchies dread a Regency;
yet between the British monarchy and a Regency there
are but two lives, both hanging on a thread. The physical
state of the Prince of Wales, if London clubs are to be
trusted, is hardly less serious than that of King Edward.
It is said that the son ha? taken refuge in a habit
that his stronger and stronger-willed father did
not carry to mortal excess ; and his signal absence from
the great Indian durbar is given in proof. As she sits
sadly upon her throne, with pain-haunted eyes questing
mournfully over the future, England’s unhappy Queen
may well seem to herself a new Cassandra, shrieking with
the wild tongues of a thousand griefs the fate of monarehs
dying.
CURRENT CLIPPINGS
George Meredith to The Manchester Guardian :
“ I hope that ultimately we shall be able to take teach-
ing out of the hands of the clergy, and that we shall be
able to instruct the clergy in the fact Christianity i 3
a spiritual religion, and not one that is to be governed
by material conditions. A spiritual God I most perfectly
believe in. I have that belief constantly before me—l
feel it within me ; but a material God that interferes in
material, mortal affairs I have never seen, and that I
don’t mind anybody knowing ; and it is, I am sorry to
say, for the material God that the clergy seem to be
striving.”
Libries niver encouraged lithrachoor anny more thin
tombstones encourage livin’. No wan iver wrote anny-
thing because he was tol’ that a hundred years fr’m now
his books might be taken down fr’m a shelf in a granite
sepulcher an’ some wan wud write “Good” or “This
man is crazy” in th’ margin. What lithrachoor needs is
fillin’ food.— F. P. Dunne, rather one-sidedly.
“ Oh, dear ! forty-seven to-day and just brought out
my twentieth novel, and have two more novels and
thirty-eight short stories coming out this year. As the
girl said when she sat at the window in Venice: ’l’m
looking at the canal, and drinking it all in, and life never
seemed so full before.’”— G. B. Burgin.
For me the old British Solar God lights up the squalor
of Billingsgate. The Sea God, Lud, and the brazen horse
give me more pleasure than the railway bridge at Lud-
gate. Oaasar’s sword at Bishopsgate and the head of Bran
buried on Tower Hill are real City assets. London is rich
in romantic lore. In her cathedral Arthur was crowned
and drew the sword from the stone. Here Iseult attended
the council called by King Mark. From the quay Ursula
and her virgins embarked ; Launoelot swam his horse
over the river at Westminster, and from it Guinevere
went a-maying.—lF. R. Lethaby, a romantic antiquary,
in London Before the Conquest.
The ancient, brave writers—A wonderful throng 1
They died in a garret, To live in a song ! They told us
the story At which the world thrills, Locked in a rude
corner From bailiffs with bills. The modern, mad
writers Who thunder away—They live in a palace, And
die in a day 1 They tell us no story Humanity feels, And
ride to oblivion On automobiles.— Atlanta Constitution.
Reputation is recognition of ability, followed by un-
recognition of inability.— The Smart Set.
The style of Dickens is assuredly not great. It has life
enough for movement, but not life enough for peace.
That it h a s life, whether restless or at rest, is the fact
which proves its title to the name of style.— Alice Mey-
nett.
She smiled widely, showing little white teeth, each
detached from its neighbour, like a row of doll’s tomb-
stones. — Edwin Pugh.
The second Charles was good-humoured—really. Even
from a complete stranger, who had been bitten by one of
his celebrated King Charles spaniels—a very ill-tempered
and snappy breed—the King good-humouredly endured
the remark : “ God bless your Majesty, but God damn
your dog! ”
Have you ever known martyrs, real martyrs ? I have.
They are grand, they are sublime—on condition that you
kill them. The very finest kind of martyr must have his
trimmings all complete—torture, peril, freezing weather,
judicial treachery, governmental cowardice, the last
gesture, the last word- especially the word and the mag-
nificent gesture. Deaf-mutes and cripples are no use to
martyrology. But if a martyr fails—that is to say,
if he earns martyrdom and does n’t get martyred, it’s all
over with him. Othello’s occupation’s gone. The
martyr who misses becomes a public nuisance. He comes
in without knocking, fascinates your wife, and bores you
with his exploits till after midnight. In the end the
martyr, become no-martyr, hangs himself or blows his
brains out. Possibly he poisons himself. Because, you
see, the martyr is a man set apart for death, made on
purpose for death ; he has nothing in common with life.
Those Christian virgins whom we admire as torches in
Nero’s gardens would not suit at all as friends or wives or
mistresses. They burned beautifully, but you could
never live with them. A martyr is a martyr simply
because he has to be. It’s in his bones. In order to live
his life, he must die. A true martyr cannot not-die. If
he lives, he misses his vocation, and bitterly he feels it.
For their own sakes (as well as ours) let us encourage our
martyrs to die quickly.— Louis Stiti.
CONTRIREUTORS’ COMMENTARY
E.W.D. : Re “ ‘the struck eagle’ Byron stole
from Waller.” ASsop, the world-renowned Greek courtier
and fabulist ( circa b.c. 619-564) tells that tale in his Fables,
“ An eagle sat on a rock watching a hare, whom he
sought to make his prey. An archer, who was watching
the eagle, took aim and wounded him mortally. The
eagle gave One look at the arrow that had entered his
heart, and saw’ in that single glance that its feathers had
been furnished by himself. *ltis a double grief to me,’
he said, ‘ that I should perish’by an arrow feathered from
my own wings.’” ASschylus (B.C. 525-456) calls it a
Libyan legend in The Myrmidons. Gabrias, too, has it
in four Greek iambics—translated into Latin by
Alsop in Fenton’s edition of Waller’s works (Lond., 1730).
A variant is found in the fables of the French La Fon-
taine (1621-1695), and in other collections. Now, while
Henry Kirke White, whom Byron apostrophises in the
famous simile, might.be said to recall Waller—inasmuch
as he wrote an additional verse to Waller’s poem, “ Go,
Lovely Rose ’—yet Tom Moore, a much closer colleague,
had used the figure just before Byron. For in 1808
Moore’s satirical poems, Corruption, and Intolerance,
appeared. In lines 95-98 of the former the familiar figure
is used:—
Like a young eagle, who has lent his plume
To fledge the shaft by which he meets his doom,
See their own feathers pluck'd, to wing the dart
Which rank Corruption destines for their heart!
Byron’s scathing satire, English Bards and Scotch
Reviewers— wherein (lines 817-834) he uses the same
image—while written in 1808, did not appear till the year
after.
W.S.T. : As to our flower-names, compare the old
world flowers:—
Daisies pied and violets blue, .
The flower that’s like thy face, pale primrose ; nor
The azur’d harebell, like thy veins — no, nor
The leaf of eglantine, whom not to slander,
Out-sweeten’d not thy breath . . .
These words are woven into ourlanguage as naturally as
the sun shines, or the silver rain falleth, Then, again,
the woods—
The oak, the ash, and the bonny brier tree,
They all grow green in the ivest countree.
Any versifier could make poetry with such names ; but
how is he to employ such sesquipedalian monstrosi-
ties as tallow-wood, pittosporum, silky oak (which
is no oak), and their ill-named and misnamed congeners.
Acacia and mimosa are better, but they are not charac-
teristically Australian. Maorilanders are luckier than
we ; for they have kaui-i and rata, and many mellifluous
Maori names. We need especially new names for the
native fuchsia, the native rose, the “false” sarsaparilla
(what a cognomen for a dainty flower !), flannel-flower,
and a dozen diversified and beautiful bulbs—all called
lilies.
L.S. : Amusing to note variations of Melb. municipal
notices re anti-spit crusade. Port Melbourne: “ All
persons are respectfully requested not to expectorate on
the footways.” Prahran : “With a view of minimising
the danger of infection from contagious diseases you are
respectfully requested to refrain from expectorating on
the footpath.” South Melbourne : “ Don’t spit on the
footpath.” [What Clues to the quality of municipal
minds! And note the.Nmental difference implied by a
common American notice : “ Gentlemen will not spit.
Others must not.”]
Riverina : Reading “ Nil’s ” complaint (28/2/3) of the
poetical misuse of a-words (a-shine, a-quiver, etc.), I was
reminded of an effective piece of verse that appeared in
The Bulletin some time ago. It was entitled “ School’s
In,” and ran like this—
When prices take to dropping, and the crop is “ cleaning
light,"
And the tanks are nearly empty, and the feed is turning
:white,
And the poison-weed’s a-growing, and the '■‘■norther” is
A-BLOWING,
And your credit is a-sinking till it sinks right out of
sight —
Then it’s come and meet the boys in the little private
room,
Where the beer goes a-begging and the pipes are all
A-FUMB ...
Singularly enough, these lines are signed N—l—L—
“ Nil.!*
“ Ignotus” discusses a bookfellow’s pockets, and others :
—About a year ago I got married. It seemed a thing one
ought to do once, just as an experinient. My idea was to
Mould it. I have learned a lot. It has no pockets. It
doesn't carry a handkerchief. Nor a pencil . . . well,
nothing ! And if it must carry money, it carries an
absurd little white Maori kit, with the purse inside.
Now look at my pockets. They have never altered for thirty
years, save when I came to town and added the pocket-
book. Coat, left breast : Handkerchief and spectacles.
Coat, right breast: Papers. Coat, right side : Tobacco-
pouch, cigarette-papers, pencil, knife. Coat watch-
pocket : Watch. Coat match-pocket: Matches. Waist-
coat pockets : Four, all unused. Trousers, right : Small
change and latch-key. Trousers, left : Gold, notes, keys,
watch-key. The pocket-book measures 3J" x If", and
contains blank leaves, visiting cards, ’bus tickets, tram
tickets, cable-car tickets, stamps, etc. It might be
interesting if other bookfellows would note what I carry
that they don’t, and what they carry that they think I
ought to. And what they put in their waistcoat pockets.
And, if one of them has a wife, how many pockets it has,
and what it puts in them. I had an aunt when I was six,
and she had a pocket as big as a sugar-bag in her skirt,
and carried all sorts of things. Cork-screws. Door keys.
Combs. I used to be sent to cupboards to look. She had
a bruise on her leg where this weighty collection hit, like
a pendulum, when she walked.
J.F.D. : “R.Q.” (4/2/3) expresses what every bush-
man with imagination feels—the “ weird expectancy,”
the awful sense of waiting that is peculiar to Australian
scenery. The “ weird melancholy ”of Marcus Clarke is,
I take it, a secondary effect of the expectancy. It is the
oppressive sense of coming disaster that brings the
melancholy. I remember how, staying once in the Liver-
pool Ranges, far from a habitation, the day-long, night-
long, waiting attitude-of everything tautened my nerves
until it seemed they would break in insanity. The
wallabies in the creek were listening listening a
hurried bite—listen ! And a rabbit or hare, ail were
waiting—not with the quick, watchful movements of
wild animals in other countries, but in a statuesque pose
as if they could hear the Something coming. The fishes,
even, in the shallow creek seemed to be clustered in
waiting groups, and an occasional iguana on a tree seemed
to look at you inquiringly. You could read a question in
the attitude of all; Have you heard? Has it come?
I bolted—there was a disaster pending, some\inysterious
calamity : and I didn’t want it to strike me up there
where I was aloffr. When I got to town I asked the first
man I met if anything had happened. He said “ No-
why ?” I could n’t explain. But when I read now of a
suicide in the bush, and read the evidence taken at the
inquest—“ The man was subject to fits of melancholy”—
I shudder. He is the man who could n’t get away.
O THESE MEN!
EVE (in tears) : “ Yes! d-deny it again now! I’ve
known it for a l-long time! You l-l-love another!"
[JCQSND.
JETSAM
Emerald,! you who, in the olden time,
Lay on her breast and heard its hidden rhyme :
When her sweet passions fluttered to be free
Did not, your pale heart strive in sympathy f
In your green depth glowed there no rose sublime ?
Or, if her spirit wandered in a clime
Of tranquil joy, you were her gentle mime:
One happy wave above a halcyon sea,
Emerald t
Alas ! Love’s temple bells no longer chime:
Dead are his altar-fires ; his rites a crime:
Now from my life the years fall piteously
As fall the wan leaves from a stricken tree;
And you are all the hoarding of my prime,
Emerald!
To think that an English poet is publishing his col-
lected works in ten volumes, in these latter days of
degeneracy! It is George Barlow, a lyrist of some
faculty and greater facility, who might be valued more
had he written less. An example of his work heads this
page.
A word is wanted as the correlative antithesis of sequel.
We can say Twenty Years After is the sequel to
The Three Musketeers ; but what is The Three Musketeers
to Twenty Years After ? Prelusion and precess are
English suggestions. We shall use precess.
When ordering linotype machines, our daily papers
should see that they have dies for accented letters. We
are abolishing accents as far as possible : e.g., dlbutant
now is written correctly “debutant”; dlpdt, “depot,"
and so on. But one hears even University students refer-
ring to M. Delcasse, French Minister of Foreign Affairs,
as Dellcas —because the linotype does not accent the final
letter of his name.
The lady moon is my lover,
My friends are the oceans four,
The heavens have roofed me over,
And the davm is my golden door.
1 would liefer follow the condor,
Or the seagull soaring from km,
Than bury my godhead yonder
In the dust of the whirl of men.
Celtic? No, sir ; translated from Chinese.
Somebody flings at Henry James the lines that he him-
self flung at Flaubert: “ That a novel should have a
certain charm seems to us the most rudimentary of prin-
ciples, and there is no more charm in this laborious
monument to a treacherous ideal than there i.»,
interest in a heap of gravel.”
A remarkable collection of pottery, statuary, and clay
records, excavated by Arthur Evans in Crete, and
exhibited in London, proves (says The Academy) that
Diedalus, the “ flying-man ” of the fable, was a maker of
history, and the first European genius. It proves that
the alphabet was known in Crete circa 4004 8.C., at least
1000 years before the reputed date of its carriage, ready;
made, from Phmnicia into Greece. More: statuettes
demonstrate that 4000 years ago, at least, the superficial
muscles of the fore-arm, among other things, were pre-
cisely the same as in each of us to-day. Another proof
of the essential completion of physical evolution many
thousands of years ago.
Stories of Douglas Jerrold—going round once more.
The saying of Jerrold’s that hurt Thackeray most was in
reference to his lectures. “ Very good, Thackeray,” said
Jerrold, “ but wants a piano.” Thackeray stood sponsor
for a child; “ Good Lord, Thackeray,” commented
Jerrold, “ I hope you did not present the infant with
your own mug.” During the height of the Tractarian
Movement someone remarked : “They are Romanising
old Thack.” “Then,” said Jerrold, “I hope they'll
begin at his nose.” (Thackeray had had his
nose broken in a schoolboy fight, and was very
sensitive to any allusion to that fact.) A 150...
A Mr 3. Glover was complaining that her hair was
growing grey, and attributed it to using essence
of lavender. Jerrold asked her “ whether it was
not essence of thyme?” “Is the legacy to be
paid immediately ? ” asked some one with re-
gard to a bequest just made. “ Yes,” said Jerrold,
“on the coffin nail.” A bore said to a company, which
he had reduced to exhaustion, of a certain tune, “ It car-
ries me away with it.” “ For goodness’ sake,” said Jer-
rold, “ let somebody whistle it.”
M.A.J. ; Did not go one word beyond the fact. Dr.
Kerr, a Scotch minister, in a pamphlet just issued, sum-
marises the result of recent criticism of the Bible in the
Encyclopaedia Biblica, and elsewhere, as follows“ The
first eight Books of the Bible are wholly unreliable; the
first eleven chapters of Genesis are full of legends; the
Bible account of creation is a myth; the Bible story of
Adam and Eve is a fable ; the Bible story of the Fall of
Man is a fiction ; the Bible narrative of the first promises
is imaginary ; the Bible story of Cain and Abel is a dream ;
the Bible story of Noah and the Flood is an invention;
the Bible stories of the Patriarchs are fancies; the Bible
stories of Moses are a fraud ; the Bible stories of Elijah
and Elisha are superstitions ; the Bible story of Jonah is
a rmrsery-rhyme ; the Bible story of Nineveh’9 repentance
is a parable ; the Books of Samuel and the Kings are not
trustworthy ; the Books of the Chronicles are very 1 pre-
carious ’; the Prophetical Books have alterations to suit
the times , the God of the Bible was originally ' a tribal
God.’" Ai. J this is not aIL
A.G.S.


WINGHGOMBE, CARSON, and
WOOL BROKERS AMD PRODUCE
SYDNEY.
CO., Limited,
SALESMEN
Send your
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., uo.
SYDNEY,
Full Values and Quick Hetuvns .
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMOHT.
Sole Oommigaiou 3 I»er Cent, to the C3-rower
oxx Large and Small Accounts Alike.
S. FREEMAN # SONS LIMITED
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES}
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OP SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
ggADOFFicE: WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY
1
i
The TJnirersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affection*.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
| NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
s e
«saoa
m
6°
•5806
6807
CBB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId «”y •> our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or
New One will be Exchanged lor it lmmedUtely on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists.
By Post, Is. 2d.
Bara a
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe.
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
\
[W
■LII 11.
»■
RICHMOND,VA.^
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
“SOLID SHOT” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
Sole Agent for C. 8.8. Briar Pipes.
Send for Whole sale Price Lises.
“Arkansas” Mixture
A Blend of the very highest grade Tobaccos.
Packed in |lb. Tins, 7s. 6d. lb.
Sample |lb. Tins, 25., post free.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
WE have the means at hand to cure you ; we know what you require before you can regain your vi-or-
you need New Life, New Nerve Force, New Ambition. Follow our advice Use ELECTRICITY*
and iu will cure you. STOP USING DRUGS; THEY WON’T EVER CURE. *
fW i if r e 0f eac i or S an > Gach nerVe ’ de P ends u P° n a bidden vital force, and We know
1S that force If each nerve cellin y° ur body is full of NERVE FORCE—ELEC-
IttiLIIY—you caj. have no weakness. WE WILL SUPPLY THIS FORCE.
-pry TT A 0r woman with LAME BACK > RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, NERVE
EXHAUSTION, or any CHRONIC AILMENT, we can offer you a Sure and Certain Cure. Long ago
m us^ aSSed Sta^e w h ere DRUGS were of any value, and now your only chance of regaining strength lies
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
The only Belt in Australia that Cures WITHOUT EXPENSIVE DRUG TREATMENT USED
IN CONJUNCTION. We know that we can give you ELECTRICITY, and that it will Cure you.
We can’t afford to make failures. Our Belt expands the tissues, puts new life and energy into the nerves
builds new hope, and actually and permanently Cures.
V'
Bingara,ft.S.W., December 12th, 1902.
Gentlemen, —I am -pleased to tell you that I see a
decided improvement in Mr. Finlan already. For one
thing, he has put his walking-stick in the corner, and
yesterday he carried out a bag of chaff for the horses,
a thing he has not done for six months ; and he told
me this morning, “ I feel as if I could jump over the
palisading.” Yours gratefully, A. FINLAN.
Mount Marlow. Isisford (Q.)
Dear Sirs, —I have been wearing your Belt accord-
ing to directions for over a month, and must say feel
the benefit of same—rheumatism gone, and appetite
good : in fact, an improvement all round, and 1 must
say I think it is the best investment I ever made.
Yours faithfully,
W. H. PERRIER.
Geelong.
Dear Sirs,—l now write you these few lines to let
you know how I am getting on. Your Belt is working
alright, and I think it is making me alright, too, as
I don’t think so much of a day’s work. The disease
has nearly all gone. It has stopped the dragging
feeling that I used to have wnen working.
I remain, H. GRAHAM.
Riverton, N.Z., November Ist, 1902.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs, —I am pleased to tell you that lam much improved in health since
wearing your Belt. I have improved wonderfully during the last month, and have
not been troubled at all with either headaches or sleeplessness.
Yours truly, H. C. PETCHELL.
m T _ Kalgoorlie, W.A.
Tub Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Replying to your inquiry after my health. I am just debating leaving the Belt
off. There has been a wonderful improvement in my condition ;in fact, I hardly
know I was ever queer. If I can help your cause you have my support.
JAMES HUGHES.
NOTICE
If you have an old-style Belt that disappointed you, send it m, and we will allow you for it in exchange. We do this not because the
old Belt is any use, for it is not. But we wish to show people, candidly, that there is one real electric appliance to be had and
that we have nothing in common with concerns selling a cheap, worthless article. Call and have a free test, and cret our free book
explaining our methods. Don’t delay. OUR BELT BEARS AUST. PAT. RIGHTS. “
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
85 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office : 167 E Swanston Street. —
Our Chief=of=Staff is the only Qualified
Registered Specialist in Australia devoting
his entire time to Electric Treatment.
Send for one of
our Free Illus-
trated Books.
They tell how
we cure without
using* Drugs.
Sent sealed,
free, post paid
to any address.
Br “ STEELE RUDD.”
PRICE 65.; Postage Bd. Extra.
Direot from THE, BULLETIN Office, 214 Georgy Bt., Sydney


W J
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
The Best Thing
on Wheels .
22 Oldsmobile
has demonstrated its ability to travel rough roads smoothly in all
kinds of weather. In a long distance endurance run between New
York and Boston in America —500 miles —the Oldsmobile was the
only machine in the 1,000 lbs. and under class to make the run
without a penalized stop, winning the highest award.
This runabout sells for at factory in America
and the freight is not large.
Starts at will from seat and is under instant control of the
operator. The cheapest reliable
automobile made. 5,000 in use.
Write for free catalogue.
Agents:
W. A. RYAN & CO., LTD., Auckland.
Olds Motor Works 9
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A,
■n
D I .'ROBERT S' 1
POOR MAN’S
FRIEND
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
In over ioo years’ world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) 1/ 1 y 2,
2/9. 11/-, and 22/- pots.
Dr. ROBERTS’ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1 /1 1 / 2 ; 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by—
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
G« L« ROBERTS, M.D.
Born 1766. Died is 34» #
DOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
U MARRIAGE GUIDE, 50 engravings, 3/6 ;
posted, 4/-. Howto Mesmerise, 1/-; Magic
Up-to-Date, 1/3; Metal Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6; Camille,l/3 ; How to
Plat Billiards, 1/3 ; How to Vamp, 1 3;
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
1 /-: Poultry Keeping, 1/- ; Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 1/-; Parlor Magic, 1/- ;
Dream Book, 1/- ; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1 6 ; Carpentry, 1/6; Lightning
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor, 1/6 ;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts,
1/3 ; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/3 ;
Book of Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer’s Oracle,
3000 subject, 1 6 ; Self Instructor, 1 3 ;
«£■s?
L
'
v
How TO Dance, 1/3 ; Art of Boxing, 1/3 ;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3; Moll Flanders,
1/6 ; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3 ; Ven-
triloquism, 1/-; Comic Reciter, 150 gems,
13 ; Irish Comic Reciter, 1/3 ; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3 ; Nigger Stump
Speeches, 1/3 ; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3 ; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6; Sappho (genuine), 1/6;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6 ;
Advice to Women, 1/3 ; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 3/ ; Palmistry, chart and guide,
6d. ; Clog Dancing, 1 Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues—Plays, Conjuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Book •
for the Married, etc.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK AND MAGIC
ARCADE, -
291 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
THED WITH AIR
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced. .
* Aertex cellular Underwear is a. Sure Preventative against Chills
AERTEX
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
AERTEX
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body, 6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body, 9s 0d & 10s 6d
Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
0.8., 2in. linen wrists, 6s 6d, 6s 6d
O.F. or 0.8., square cuffs—
-6s 6d, 7s 6d
J
: M.
«' •»
\.l
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
High or Low Necks. ,
a. d.
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace . •• ..56
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..76
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace .. .. ..96
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..9 0
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
■
gjtsa-.jMH'iSJ.
Ilf
-
. , White Cotton, trimmed Embroidery,
Aertex Cellular LnCUIISCS* gg White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices* loin 1 - large s iles%xtra. s ' zes
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
end for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Sole Agents.
Aertex Cellular Tennis.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. 6d. to 11s. 6d.
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
8. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. .. 15 6
C 2 ~ long waist, 14|in deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 141 in., with
Elastic Supporter ..24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips .. 15 0
HI same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. ..86
C There’s SECURITY in
ARTERS
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
iFURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUCH ik.
LIVER
Be Sure they are
Carters
TATTERS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Fenny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every J6l, and so on.
NOW OPEN
ADELAIDE CUP-
Morphettville, S.A., May 13 - 25,000 at 5/1
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES—
Randwick, N.S W., June 3 ...80,000 at 5/1
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic,, July 4, 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TA FTERSALL ’) STILL
CONTINUES bis business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.


“A friend
in need is a
friend in-
deed.” This
is an old
proverb,
but as true
as it is old.
Here is just
such a friend.
Never be
without it. Keep it
close at hand all the
time.
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
It will prove a good friend when you
have a fresh cold, bringing immediate
relief. You will find it equally true
in old colds, bronchitis, whooping-
cough, asthma.
And you will declare it “the best
friend in the world” if you will use
it for an irritable throat or weak lungs.
It acts as a strong tonic, clearing up
the throat, giving tone to the relaxed
tissues, and greatly strengthening the
lungs.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure you
get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr- J. C.-Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long-,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
ext ra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tilths and Combines worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM*
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hair work sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor*
•nations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
Write To-Day.
Send
Postal Note.
Given
away
THIS MONTH
...t0...
Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
2/6
The Bunch
Post Free.
3 Blaok Tips with Ospreys. A Marvel of Cheapness.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention Tub Bulletin.
THE
BROWNIE
DEVELOPING
MACHINE.
Price 12s. Only,
Full Particulars of all Dealers and of
KODAK LTD.,
284 Collins Street, Melbourne*
Plmm mention this paper.
S€ND US
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or frien
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10 6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331-per Half-dozen, free by post tUrouyhout
A astrallit.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
roN't
IRISH MOSS
3S&S2s
"•“ssEsESh*:—
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
y hh*u%S\.
Commercial
Bugrgry,
£l4 10*
H. Hilb'er,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
tST Send for a
Catalogue.
Went Shaft Sulkies.
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £Blos.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
21/-
21/-
b»™
%rf.
MOST MARVELLOUS VALUE
A SOLID SILVER KEYLESS
Hunting Watch.
Heavy Case, Sound Movement,
Perfect Timekeeper
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
21/-
Posted Duty Free to any part of Australia.
Send for my New Illustrated Catalogue.
QUEENSLAND LEADING JEWELLER
H. F. SMITH,
Queen Street, Brisbane
and at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
Most makes of .22 caliber cartridges are as variable as some
men’s watches. Cartridges out of the same box won’t
shoot alike. Some go high, some go low and some don’t
go at all. This is not true of
WINCHESTER
.22 Short and .22 Long Cartridges.
They shoot well all the time, and shoot just where you hold.
Special powder made according to carefully determined and
tested formulas is used in loading Winchester Cartridges
and every bullet is swaged by special machinery which
makes them uniform in size, weight and density. This
modern method of manufacture coupled with a rigid sys-
tem of tests makes Winchester Cartridges better than any
other brand on the market. A trial will convince you.
WH STOCKS WINCH FISTFP GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd
ELIZABETH STREET, ITELBOURNE.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
4LL Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ’ Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
gSg- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
£&■ For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-screet, S>doe/.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MAOKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and v
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulb and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES n ‘ Besl 'tr ,s SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, bo.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Pessimist’s Plaint.
Bodeful, reiterate, for ever rising,
The voice of those who wait
The confirmation of their vague surmising,
Guessings of small and great.
“To what end? For what good?” so loudly
calleth,
Questioning, “ Who can say ? ”
In mournful symphony responsive falleth
The chorused lay
Of sigh and sob, unholy glee and terror,
The curse of suffered wrong ;
Waft breeze and storm-gust life’s o’er-saddeued
farer
The burden of a song,
More ghastly strange than even the owl’s weird
screeching
Through night’s dim sphere,
From deep to height the farthest sundered
reaching,
Re-echoing drear;
For there is naught so slowly apprehendeth
That deep refrain,
But to it some responsive murmur sendeth,
Some throb of pain.
The fallen tree, crushed flowers, and withered
grasses
Their record blend
With man’s endeavor foiled, and hope that passes
To futile end.
All pleasant things this spacious earth containeth
Flee fast away,
And there is nothing holy that remaineth
Beyond the day.
We haste along, the desert mirage chasing
More fair, it seems,
Than cloud-shot western sky, with silver tracings
And golden gleams.
“Behold ! ” we cry, “of life the consummation !
Solace of groans.”
Lo ! sand and wash, a weary desolation,
And dead men’s bones !
vio.
ROBT. G. M'LACHLAN.
On the Shore.
The sea hath music in its wave,
That sings of the Evermore ;
But the waters wash on a mouldering grave
When they foam to the sounding shore:
For the ebbing tide leaves the broad sands bare,
And the dead lie scattered there.
Beautiful shells and white, bleached bones,
And roots of the twisted pine,
Torn sea-weeds, and encrusted stones
Roughened in sand and brine ;
But the ocean sings, and the sea-winds sigh,
Till it seems ’twere sweet to die.
Polished shells of perfect mould,
Complete in themselves they seem;
No groping ghouls of the ocean cold
With its cruel charnel gleam.
And strange it is that we feel no dread
When the sea gives up its dead.
Death and decay ; but all so fair
And lulled with such lullaby,
That the keenest life is enchanted there,
Forgetting it too must die—
That when its wondrous house is gone
The ocean still sings on.
Life has a sea with a sounding shore,
We are as shells in the deep :
We hear its music of Evermore,
We live, and we laugh, and weep—
May we, to a God of eternal breath,
Look as fair as we lie in death.
M.L.
AHAU.
Love by Moonlight.
The spirit of a breeze moves through the pines:
Midnight upon the river broodeth low !
Under the high moon’s beams the road’s long lines
Trail white; and on the plains, for miles the snow
Of level moonbeams glitters; shadows show
Where stretches the dark empire of the grass;
Scarce sigh the Avon willows to and fro . . .
Yet moons like this must set, and years must pass j
Within my lady’s eyes the love-light shines;
We tell the moon what only lovers know :
And very softly, where the brown hair twines
About her neck, with clustering curls a-row,
I kiss her, with a lingering kiss and slow,
And thank high Heaven that sends so dear a lass
To walk with me beneath the gold moon-glow.
Yet moons like this must set, and years must pass j
Such nights are like long draughts of finest wines
Pressed from the grapes that in the star-fields
grow,
Meet to be sipped with one whose thought divines
Your thought, and answers silently: and though
No word is spoken, do not you forego
To pledge a toast out of Night’s crystal glass;
Drink to Don Cupid and his golden bow . . .
Yet moons like this must set, and years must pass !
M - L -
ERNEST CURRIE.


Nip
»»
•• • •
Four Crown
Whisky
iff:
«s
Tl)e Finger Post to Health
This is an Interesting Story
for Liver Sufferers.
The case of
Mr. G. HEATHCOTE.
(BT a special reporter.)
Since enlightened humanity requires that
the trials incidental to sickness should be
minimised wherever possible, and since by
kindliness and consideration much can be
done in that direction, a reporter called
upon Mr. George Heathcote, of Surry-
screet, Waterloo, who willingly assented
to answer any questions.
“ Were you once a tesident of Bunda-
berg, Queensland ? ” asked the pressman.
“ Yes,” answered Mr. Heathcote. “ I
was living there when it was necessary to
cross the liridge by boat instead of walking
over it, or, to be more explicit, during the
time of the great flood, and it was during
that exciting and disastrous period that my
blood was so impoverished through exces-
sively hard work for long hours at a stretch
that sores broke out on my hands and arms,
and my legs swelled terribly. Previous to
this I had suffered from fever and ague,
which left me very weak and shaky, and
for some weeks I noticed that my appetite
was falling off ; but I put that down to
fatigue more than anything else, until other
symptoms cropped up to show me it was
not so, but my 'gyer and kidneys which
were responsible.”
“ What reason,, were there to enable you
to arrive at that conclusion ? ”
“ Any number of them, one of the most
unmistakable being a nasty pain which
caught me here (Mr. Heathcote indicated
the part affected by placing his hand on the
small of his back). My back ached so in-
tensely that my wife made flannel belts for
me to wear, thinking that they would afford
me some relief. If I was doing anything
which caused me to bend down, the pain on
straightening myself was something terrible,
while walking also provoked great distress
and inconvenience. Other proof that my
kidneys were in a bad way was also in
evidence, and as for the rest of my ail-
ments—well, I hardly know where to begin
first.”
“ Tell me I few of the most important—
those that are uppermost in your mind ? ”
“ Oh ! I hive not forgotten any of them,”
was the quick response, “especially the
heavy feelings in my chest, which made me
short-winded. After eating, a weighty sen-
sation appeared in that quarter, and before
I knew where I was my stomach began
swelling out with wind, which made me
very uncomforta le always, and at times
gave rise to sharp, cutting pains. The
sour gases gradually worked their way up,
and caused me to belch, after which, and
until I took a little more food, I felt
slightly easier, but the same unpleasantness
followed each meal, however trifling. When
making my morning preparations for work
1 used to feel as if 1 would like to go back
to bed again, as I was entirely devoid of
energy, and had no desire to attempt any-
thing. This languidness was due, no doubt,
to the restlessness every nig \ I could go
to bed feeling so drowsy tliat my eyes
seemed swollen for the want of rest, yet I
found myself awake the greater part of the
night, and when I got up my limbs were
all aches. Nearly every day I was dis-
tracted with intense headaches, which ap-
peared to bring a mist before my eyes, as
if my sight was failing me, and without any
warning my head became so giddy that I
had to take a rest till the sen~a r ion passed
away. Every month I was getting weaker
and more wretched, beit.g continually be-
set uitli pains under my shoulder-blades,
which travelled right through to the heart,
and caused me considerable anxiety. The
white coating on my tongue explained the
unhealthy condition of my stomach, too,
and what I wanted was a real good medicine
to clear away all disorders and impurities ;
but in those days I did not know as much
as I do now, or I would have been out of
mv troubles very quickly I went from
bad to worstf and had arrived at that
melancholy anl desperate stage when the
least and most simple thing excites a feeling
of irritation, and I am sure you will admit
that such a life of misery is not worth eu-
during. Had I gone on a little longer in
that sorry plight I question whether I
would have been as sound a man as I am
to-day, for I was fairly in the grip of my
complaint, when, owing to the recollection
of some conversations between a few of my
friends, 1 hit upon the i lea of t king some
Clements Tome. I took immediate ac'inn,
as I firmly beloved that further delay
would have brought irretrievable disaster
to my constitution.”
“ Your good fortune came at a very ac-
ceptable time, I should imagine?”
“ Yes ; and a very critical time, too, and
I regretted that I had not bought a few
bottles of Clements Tonic at the outset;
but we all have to buy our experience, you
know, although I intend doing all I can to
help other sufferers by letting them know
what Clements Tonic can do. Personally,
I can truthfully say that it generally re-
vived me from my lethargic state when I
had drank but a small quantity, and I found
myself rapidly improving. Clements Tonic
had a magical effect on my kidneys and
greatly relieved the pains about my back
and shoulders. This relief, coupled with
the abatement of my headaches, had the
effect of making me feel more restful at
nights, and the sound sleep I got through
using Clements Tonic did me an immense
amount of good. My slumber was not in-
terfered with by dreams, and when I awoke
at the usual time for getting up I arose with
alacrity and hastened to my morning meal,
after which I was ready for work. It was
a marvellous change to be full of eoergy
and cheerfulness again, but the invigorating
properties of Clements Tonic were so re-
markable that I could not have restrained
my feelings of joy had I wanted to. Wind
never formed in my stomach after Clements
Tonic got to work, neither did my chest
trouble me, while in the matter of palpita-
tion the same medicine was equal to the
prevailing requirements. There is no
denying the fact that Clements Tonic
was wonderfully effective as a blood
pnrifier, for the sores were gradually
effaced from my hands and arms, and the
cause of my legs swelling—whatever that
cause might have been - was entirely re-
moved. My illness had considerably
affected my nerves, which became shaky
whene er I was disturbed, but to my heart-
felt thankfulness I must say that Clements
Tonic was as effective on my nervous
system as it was on my other deranged
organs.”
“ What was your appetite like then ? ”
“As it wai soon after commencing on
Clements Tonic—very good, indeed, and it
has remained so ever since. Hut the
strengthening qualities of my newly-found
medicine surprised me. for although my
work was very heavy I always got through
it without feeling any ill effects from the
time Clements I onic cured me, and I have
not once had the faintest return of any of
my old symptoms, in acknowledgment of
which I give you permission to publish my
story as it pleases you.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
1, Georgr Hevtiicotk, of Surry-street, Water-
loo. in the Sate of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of five
folios, and consecutively numbered from one
to five, and that it contains and is a true and frithful
account of mt illness and cure by (Jleinems lonic,
and also contains my mil penni-sion to publish in any
wav my st dements which 1 gve voluntarily,
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of
the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Waterloo, nus nine-
teenth day of April, one thousand nine hundred and
two, before ms,
R O. CAMPBELL., J. P.
FOR THE BUSH WORKER
am
-Bu/c
- SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
ft a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Fprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Si'in Di ease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
*«»v ,
JQ’OTICE TO MSXBOURNR VISITORS
WIMPOLE'S GEOROE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10US.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets an 1
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DAN 01 iM 3 FLO 3.1
of various sizes supplied
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
VERY PEN made by Mncniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. “B®
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
THE MOST KtTKJTJCrS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPP EK.
DEBILITATED
YYTEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
v ’ trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OB' CHARGE. You will he more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, igoi, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Ed*.,
129 Colllns-gt., Melbourne.
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which any lad
an give in tea, coffee or fo d It does its work so silent]'
>nd surely t hat while the devoted wife, sister or daughter
looks on, the drunkard is reclaimed, even against his wd
lid without his knowledge or co-operation. Send nani
oid address to THE EIJCItASY CO., 6:! HUNTER ST
SYDNEY, N.S.W., and they will send you booklet au-
oarticnlars n ee.
RUPTURE »
l'hrow *w*y
your XtuM.
withovi
operation or pa rt,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-dav for illustrate
Treatise No. io. Address:
1 SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
129 COLLINS STREET,
M ELBOURNE.
riiTrj) iv
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapiilarine
Posted (under eover}
to any i>nrt of Anstrn.
iusia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
*
The Reeult.
CRAIG &. AITKEIM, N.S. W\ Barber's Suppl
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYD.icY.
LARGEST SALE OP ANY DENTIFRICE,
CALVERT'S
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder.
A unique and efficacious preparation for
cleansing the teeth and strengthening the gums.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
tfORRIS's
IMPERIAL
ftI EYE,
ointment
cures
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neoralcle Head aches* all Nerve
Pains removed bv BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache It has no equal. I hare
used it successfully for years.''—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDiIL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache.
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac.
Of all Stores.
Rupture
Free Cure.
Yonderful Home Treatment That Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W S. Rice (Dept. 268), 8 & 9, Stonecutter
treet, London, E.C., has invented a method that
ures rupture without pain, danger, operation, or
.u hour s loss of time from the day’s work. To
avoid all questions of doubt, he sends free to every
MR. JOHN WESLEY.
'offerer a free trial of his method, and there can be
o earthly reason why anyone, rich or poor, should
ot availthemselves of this generous offer. As an
istance of this remarkable method, the cure of
Ir. John Wesley, Castle Lachlan, Inverary. Argyle,
s a welcome intelligence. Mr. Wesley is a well
reserved and highly respected gentleman, 72 years
f age. After a short use of the Rice method the
upture healed entirely. To-day he’s sound as
bell. If you know anyone ruptured you should
il them of this wonderful method, which will
e sent for trial free of all costs.
30 Days’ Trial.
VVe grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
AKKLIAyCKS
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts {rh'e a steady sooth-
ing current that can hs
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we dvs. »
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If .it does not, we «t
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exacty
.vhat we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.- Before purchasing, we prefer that you senu
or our Electric Era and Price List (post free),’ i: 1 -!.J*
Host rations of different appliances for BOTH bEA ,
ulso Testimony which w ill convince the most sceptica■
Address:
Grerman ‘Electric Appliance Agency
G 3 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
v*i.L CHLUkiib i o
PROFHNSEMS
4s»-ais
FOR
JAn/emia,
Poverty of Blood
and
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
AT 3/6 PER BOX


SPECIALISE in but one direction, i.e., the
EQUIPMENT OF OFFICES
on an UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM.
No Business can
succeed ■' lullOUfc
METHOD.
This METHOD
we supply.
WABASH
EXPANSION
Bus'mss
Systems.
L tter Files.
Document File#
Card Index
Systems
For all
Businesses.
Write .for
Catalogue.
L£J#;os:{£Aa.6*.’
1 •*• I ".'I rArat’JS U_‘
,ALiULlSlA±4A‘'i
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Ag-ents, Australasia.
IS PROVIDED hv the American
Scluo of Co -respon lenc ,
at Armour Institute of Tech-
nology, Chicago, who conduct
Engineering Tuition hycorres-
pondence, and aim to extend, at small cost, a valuable
technical education to the great wage-earning classes
everywhere. The courses are especially practical,
and are adapted to the needs of working people who
are willing and anxious to advance. Electrical.
Sceam, Mechanical, Civil and Sanitary Engineering.
Drawing, Mathematics, Architecture, and TextiTe
Manufacturing, Mining. Catalogue “ B,” describing
Courses, Methods and Terms, sent on request to
R. N. FERGUSON, Electrical Engineer (Manager
Australia), P.O. Box 629, Sydney, N.S.VV.
HYPNOTISM, Magnetic Healing, &o.
*33
IT‘‘
Learn to Hypnotize!
Wonderful, Mysterious. Fas
ciimting! I leach you how
to become a j ypu tist so
that you can exert a strung]
and magic influence over
oth rs. Celebrate in* an
taiieoi s method, discovered
ai d Taucht only by me.
1 asily and quickly learned.
A u can permrm astonish-
ing fe*.s and produce fun
by the lo ur. Surprise all
your friends and make your*
*tlf f mens. You can give
en rertainments and make
money. Grat fiestve y am-
bition, com]>els others to
e and o' ey you, and
br ups health, happiness,
and success in li e. Cures
di eases and bad liabits.
Send two stumps for my b %
FLEE HOOK, which treats
on all t e wonders, secrets,
and mysteries of the art,
and shows you just how to
become a Hypnotist.
ADDRESS—
Prof. R. H. Rarrarien, 89 Pitt Street, BYDNEY.
If
you
are
; suffering from
1 exhaustion. Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription , dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Emm
VEGETABLE]
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
HARCOAL
Speedily cures Acidity. Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indige3t on, Diarrhoea, <fec. It
destroys all disease germs, and.absorbing all impuri*
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG S P RE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
pleasant to take). S »ld by all Chemist and Stores
iiavi g had com /aints of the injury done by other
preparations, lease see that each Bottle or Tin bears
t e Trade Mark ‘J.L. 8.. in monogram, on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
J)EAR SIR,—I have been cured of weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURSI,
street, Sydney.
Rupture
I Dr. Pierce’s Electric Truss
is a Marvel. Nothing like
it. Best Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure for Rupture.
World renowned. 27 improvem’ts.
If ruptured, send a stamp, (any
sort), for new “Booklet No. 1.”
MAGNETIC E. TRUSS CO., 206 Post Street, San
Francisoo,U.S.A.; W. H. Soul& CO-, Agents, Syd.net.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fres, 1s
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frae, is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
WILD WITH ECZEMA
And Other Itching, Burning,
Scaly Eruptions with
Loss of Hair.
Speedy Cure Treatment.
Bathe the affected parts with Hot Water and Cuticura Soap, to
Cleanse the surface of crusts and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and apply Cuticura Ointment
freely, to allay Itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, and lastly take Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A single set is of ,en sufficient to cure the most torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, burning, scaly, pimply humours, eczemas, rashes,
irritations, and chafings, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
The agonizing itching and burning of the skin, as in eczema: the fright-
xul scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair and crusting of the -scalp, as in
seal led head; the facial disfigurement, as in pimples and ringworm; the
awful suffering of infants and the anxiety of worn-out parents, as in milk
crust, tetter, and salt rheum, all demand a remedy of almost superhuman
Virtues to successfully cope with them. Such are the Cuticura remedies
the purest, sweetest, most speedy and economical curaiives for the skin!
scalp, and blood ever compounded. Mothers are their warmest friends.
EVlillionsof Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
in 0 the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes and chafings, in the form of baths for
annoying irritations and inflammations of women, or too free or offensive
perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and manv
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves, as well as
for all tlio purposes of tlie toilet) bath) and nursery.
CUTICI'RA RESOLVENT PILLS
coatea; are a new, tasteless,
hrah>H n odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
- I y u .id CUTICOEA Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
n£^ I . C 9 the world. Australian Depot: K. Tnwv S & Co., Sydney. British
Conn.; Soifprops:, 1 Boston, !?/ 1 rench Depoti 5 Rae la ***• ***•• huXTBB i>/ D GS» ChS2
’mt-
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming: advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength " ho
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, lias so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at ouce for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
oid doctor diagnose your case.
Seek -tiie Truth, it coats TSTothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Colins Street, Melbourne.
II
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMBRACTHO
THE POPULAR “HuAiM HOME TALK.”
Bv Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. S 6 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of .young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-marie for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking marie eas\ : Is (id post
Practicai, Palmistry (latest), post Is 6<l.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted'
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free la. ’
The Artof Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games post2'6
Love and Parentage, B<l posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Ausr. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals', 3s (3d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free
Art of Boxing, by Ned Dotmelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history) Is 3d
Saniiow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Becu>'er (newest), Is 3d post free.
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievassk’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6(1 posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest son"s,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d. ”
G. W. Reynolds’ Court ok London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. 8 .i'piio, is.
Every Man 11 s Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife's Handbook, Is 2 1 posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather hound, my price, 15s post paid'
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Waxnan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using: ASTHMA CURE, made -from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cutes. 4s. 6d. large bottle:
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
RUSES
*f> Insecticide
% »&K.lls
BW*'
GOUT
2? X X 4 L S.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Procjt & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARFTTFS
For Asthmatic people who suiter Irom
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIM ATILT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
EVERY WOMAN
JM|
Warn
is interested and should know
about the wondeiiul
Marvel Whirling Snray
The new FEMALE SYRINLE
Injection and Sucticn. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
pai ticulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. KiHloraed by lNiysicians.
Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AUENiS-
THE MARVEL CO, OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
RX CORO’S
ulf g-
'1 lie ouly lnJulliMe Remedy for W KAKS HS3.
Used lor a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Licord’s Lssence of Life restores Health ami Strength
Lo the most shattered constitutions , regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for Sew South Wales—
f. h. f-auluing & Co., 16 O’Ccnnetl St., Sydney.
EED
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Oollins St., Melbourne.


AGNFHB
avis aiHHi
S.ASS3NN3H
Safeguard
Your
Health
See
that your
Brandy
Is
Bottled
in
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
v>*Ts
Baßi
v
~L 3
m
mm
nf
1 1
u
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GEORGE MARE, Secretary.
Visitors to the Old Country
AILEYS
*OVAL P A ©
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOOT// //E/VS//VG TON,
LONDON. S.IV.
HOTEL
THE NEW LOUNGE : ONE OF THE FINEST IN LONDON
Self-corvt airbed suites.
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
s
o
mz
o
7/
m
A
\
A
Jj
X
a
s
lv
(AY T(?0(JbL £ 5
lU
Httfg
II
nOiIQQI
ini®"
Hfeiil
iWPfIEKJtI
l i
lira
llillil!
m
IIHtW
H H
; ii
ijjlU
asnai
!=] .;
m
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
THE
‘PLUM’
PiO
THE
PLUM’
/Y ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow "round, ring
'T like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind ot
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and. having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. AVE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 91
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake,
p /Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Bair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, IIA
BFiCE single Razoi, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Bair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful Oise, 33J.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of tub World.
iw Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEIM, 680 George-st., Sydney.
A
T he GANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Canz Direct Current Arl-Propetlsr. SOLE AGENTS I
file Rustral Qtis Engineering Co., [td., South fflelb.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6a.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Id wards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture.
wills s “VICE-REGAL mixture
(Registered.)
Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two grades—Medium and Full. Price, 1s per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0. 1208.
SATURDAY. A I*l> ITi 11, 1903.
Pbiob 6d.
PHRASE-MAKING.
LITTLE BOY AT MANLY : “JOHN, THERE’S THE WOLF AT THE DOOR.”
JOHH SEE : “WOLF? NONSENSE! THAT ISN’T A WOLF, IT’S A CALAMITY HOWLER.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A ustrali'ins.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 6
Half-yearly .„ ... .» 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty -
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form, of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that toe
are nntresponsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
toill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e„ any picture which has to be re-draum—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, 33 Rout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia ; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co,, Colombo. ‘
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hons Kono. —Brewer and Co., t 3 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Tlfc^ffihcHeZzM.
SATURDAY, APRIL 11, 1903.
The Case of Tasmania, and Other Matters.
Now that Tasmania has finished fighting its
general election the present is as good a time
as any other for the winning party to settle
down to a serious consideration of the
financial state of the island. The fact that
Tasmania is, in some respects (though not in
all) the boss financial drunk and imbecile
of the Commonwealth, lends it a certain
importance that has no relation at all to its
lts dimensions are small, but its public
drunk is enormous. During the recent
electoral campaign certain politicians told
the people that they had “ awakened to a
knowledge of the seriousness of the position,”
and if they really had awakened the fact
would have been of value. Unfortunately
their further utterances showed that they
had not really awakened—only turned over a
trifle in their sleep. Even the most wakeful
of them was still subject to one incurable
delusion —that the debts of this country,
being incurred for public works purposes,
don’t come into anything like the same
category as the debts of other countries,
incurred for wasteful and useless wars ; that
we are not to be judged by the same stan-
dards as other countries; and that our
insolvency will, therefore, be a different kind
of insolvency from theirs. That deep-
rooted impression that no country save Aus-
tralia has assets to set against its public
debt, and that, consequently, all compari-
son, and all admonitions based thereon, are
futile, is an old mental stump that requires
a terrible amount of digging up. As a
solemn matter of fact, very few countries,
save Britain, France, Turkey, and Spain,
now owe any war debt which, when reduced
to so much per head, amounts to anything
worth mentioning.
99mm
Almost the worst example of a European
country without payable assets to show for
its national debt is Great Britain, where
railways and docks are owned by private
enterprise, while tramways are either
private or municipal property. Let this
very bad example be set against Tasmania,
and see how the two stand :
Britain. Tasmania.
Public debt per head .. £l9los. .. £5O
Annual interest per head 10s. 7d. .. £1 17s. 6d.
Total interest .. .. £22,000,000 .. £333,111
Net revenue from works re-
presented by this debt—
Railways .. .. .. £33,111
Suez Canal shares.. .. £830,000 ..
Post and Telegraphs .. 4,550,000 ..
Interest payable out of
taxation ' £16,620,000 .. £300,000
Interest payable out of
jaxation (per head) .. Bs. .. £1 14s. Bd.
These calculations are not accurate to a
penny, for it is impossible to quite keep
pace with changing conditions, but they are
as accurate as the latest available figures can
make them. Britain doesn’t even begin to
compare with such countries as Sweden,
Norway, Denmark, Prussia, and Russia in
the matter of having revenue-yielding assets
to set against its debt, yet Britain, bad as it
is, is vastly ahead of Tasmania. With a
debt not more than one-third as much per
inhabitant as Tasmania’s, it has remunera-
tive works to set against nearly one-quarter
of its annual interest bill, while Tasmania’s
proportionately much larger debt is only
represented by one-tenth its value in pay-
able assets, if the revenue derived therefrom
is accepted as the test of value.
* • * •
The explanation which is generally held
to be sufficient is that this is a new
country which had all its roads, railways,
telegraphs and public buildings to construct,
and therefore debt is its natural and essential
condition. But other countries commenced
to build practically all these things at almost
the same time that we did. Even the old
roads of the old countries were almost all
reconstructed during the last century. The
real point of difference is that this is the
only country where the State was practically
the sole landlord at the time the rail-
way-building era commenced, and which had
almost all the land values of the country
as a railway-building fund. The difference
was all in our favor ; in fact, it is still in our
favor, though with the sale of the most
valuable portion of our public estate, and
the constant turning into cash of the less
valuable part which remains, the advantage is
soon likely to be a thing of the past. Where
the Australian started wrongly was in the
assumption that he should be a shareholder
in an immense railway, telegraph, and dock
concern without paying for his shares. No
man expects to own £35 worth of stock in
the private Deniliquin and Moama or Silver-
ton railways, or in the Commercial Bank or
the Melbourne tramways without paying the
£35, and when he pays it he calls the money
savings. But the Australian does expect
(Heaven only knows why) to own £35 worth
of State railway and tramway without paying
a copper, and if he is asked to pay he doesn’t
call it savings—he calls it outrageous taxa-
tion, and throws out the Government. He
doesn’t expect to get dividends out
of private enterprise without paying
for his shares; he does expect to
get dividends in the shape of reduced
taxation, old age pensions and the like, out
of his State enterprises without paying for
his share in them ; and naturally the scheme
doesn’t work. And in later years the disease
has spread till he expects to get even his
roads and culverts without paying for them.
That scheme, naturally, works still worse.
The result is that an Australian State, which
has a public works policy of fifty years’
standing, now shows, at the end of that
time, less profitable works to account for its
debt than Britain, which only got its payable
assets in an accidental way with no fixed
policy at all.
* * • m
Almost all the European countries
where railways are owned by the State,
work on an idea quite the reverse of
ours. New railways are charged to
revenue, and only that portion of the cost
which the revenue can’t immediately
carry is borrowed, generally with a sinking
fund attached. Even Russia, in the last year
for which accounts are available, paid for all
that year’s new railway expenditure out of
revenue, and paid off part of its old railway
debt as well. As for charging roads,
bridges, dredging works, and such like non-
revenue-yielding and perishable sundries to
the permanent debt, hardly one of the coun-
tries about whose “ war debts ” Australia is
so contemptuous, ever dreams of such a
thing. Tasmania, the horrible example of
the Commonwealth, has got things down to
such a point that, in the five years to the end
of 1901, it spent £336,000 of loan money on
works that paid very badly, and £675,000
on works that didn’t pay at all. Yet the
Tasmanian is firmly convinced that his debt
is in a category vastly superior to that of
such a country, say, as Russia, where the net
revenue from railways alone covers more
than half the annual interest bill. Tasmania
even possessed a Minister, in the Bradbon
days, who stated in Parliament that it was a
perfectly legitimate and solvent proceeding
to build a wooden bridge out of loans, and
keep renewing it out of loans, till the price
of ten bridges was owing, and the tenth
bridge had decayed into mere firewood.
Tasmania didn’t throw out that Minister for
holding these dangerous views; it didn’t
even actively disapprove of him.
• * . *
By reason of its gold, silver, copper and
coal mines, and its amazing luck in inherit-
ing the fee simple of an empty continent
without either fighting or paying for it, the
Australian community is still rich —com-
paratively. It isn’t anything like so rich as
it was, but it is still rich—comparatively.
There are only a few countries where the
average individual has a larger income, and
there is none which holds, in proportion to
population, so much gold coin, out of which
to pay for public works. Yet this is almost
the only country in the world which depends
almost entirely on foreign loans for its public
works funds, and there is now hardly a
country in the world which has so heavy
an unproductive debt, or which is so
devoid of anything in the way of sinking
funds. And there isn’t one which is heap-
ing up unproductive debt so rapidly.
State socialism is in a fair way to be
a failure in Australia, not because it
isn’t the grandest and noblest idea in
the whole political creed of man, but
solely because there has been tacked on
to it a strange disease and delusion
which has, in itself, nothing to do with
State socialism. If our railways belonged to
a certain number only of Australians, these
Australians would expect to pay for them as
the natural condition of ownership. Because
they belong to all Australians, these Aus-
tralians have been taught to be firmly
convinced that they should own them
without payment. If the individual
Australian is invited to have £35 of
his own money invested in the savings
bank he regards it as a great idea ; if he is
invited to have £35 of his own money
invested in his own State railways he calls it
disgraceful tyranny. There is a yearning
for community of goods so far as public
works are concerned, without paying for the
goods. Therefore Australia is going where
parson Tremaynb Dunstan, of Sydney,
lately went. That estimable pastor showed
how a man may go bankrupt on £750 a year,
simply by not paying for things at the outset
and not being able to keep ahead of the com-
pound interest afterwards. Australia, with,
on an average, less than a tenth of Pastor
Dunstan’s income, is also finding it harder
every day to keep .ahead of the compound
interest.
• * • •
The other Australian States are drifting
more or less rapidly in the same direction as
Tasmania, and still the great majority of
people are shocked when the question is
asked: “Is Australia bankrupt?” The
answer doesn’t depend on the country’s
assets ; they are perpetually quoted as an
answer, but they have little more to do with
the case than has the transit of Jupiter
Australia will be bankrupt unless its people
care to shake off the habits and tra-
ditions and delusions of 40 years; un-
less they can become quite a new
people ; unless they can realise that
their principal political ideas have been one
vast insanity ; unless the political leopard
can change his spots and the political nigger
can become white. Australia may become
bankrupt in any case, if the political leopard
postpones the changing of his spots too long.
A great deal depends on whether Australia’s
luck in avoiding attack and keeping out of
expensive wars continues. A great deal
more depends on whether the community,
when it comes to consider the stupendous
sacrifice that would be involved in keeping
straight, thinks it worth while to keep
straight. The problem is an interesting one.
Most Australian politicians simply meet
it in an off-hand way by saying that there
isn’t any problem.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Downfall of Neil Lewis.
Tasmania had an election last Thursday, and
there is nothing left of the Neil Lewis Ministry.
The Premier himself lost his seat, beaten by 150
votes. Treasurer Bird fell in his old age, wiped out
by shirt-merchant Brownell. Lands and Works
Minister Mulcahy was extinguished by almost
two votes to one. Three members of the Lewis
Ministry held seats in the House of Assembly,
and they all went under. It was a rout of the
worst description, and of the old Government
party only about six remain. If the downfall
had been due to the Tory principles of the
Lewis Government, which had a few bright
Democratic ideas and a good many Tory
ones, the situation would be one to be
thankful for, but it was the good qualities of the
Ministry that killed it. It perished of its in-
come-tax and its ambition to make ends
meet. Tasmania lost a huge proportion of
its revenue by the abolition of inter-State cus-
toms, and the Lewis Ministry, after, hesitating
and allowing deficits to accumulate a great deal
too long, decided to square the ledger with a
graduated land-tax, graduated income-tax, in-
creased railway charges, re-assessment of under-
valued lands, and a certain amount of retrench-
ment. It was impossible to retrench much in the
under-manned and ill-paid civil service of Tas-
mania, by far the most cheaply-governed State in
Australasia, and Premier Lewis refused to be a
sweater of a sufficiently bad variety to gratify most
of his opponents. Tasmania bore with Lewis in a
friendly way while he let deficits accumulate, but
when he pushed through his new tax legislation
Tasmania rose against him like one agriculturist.
The West Coast mining districts, which are
largely occupied by people from other and more
E regressive States, returned three Labor mem
ers, which makes the first beginnings of a Labor
party in Tasmanian politics ; but the great
majority of the new members were elected
as people who want to reduce taxation and
chance the consequences. All this happens
at a bad time. N.S.W. Attorney-General
Wise and other excited persons have just
been assuring the London money-lender that
interest is never paid here out of anything
save revenue, and that his security lies in the
“unlimited powers of taxation” possessed by
Parliament —in other words, it lies in the people’s
power to tax themselves through their own Par-
liament. But the power to tax themselves
amounts to very little without the inclination—it
amounts to no more than their equally indubitable
power to boil themselves if they feel a desire to be
boiled, which they don't. Now, just at this awk-
ward juncture our creditors see a Ministry go
down utterly as soon as it tried to raise enough
money to pay interest out of revenue, even though
it proposed to put on less taxation than had
been taken off. It sees the Ministry that wanted
to reduce loans and start an enlarged sinking fund
promptly and utterly abolished. It sees Parlia-
ment’s unlimited power of taxing the people tried
in a very small way, with the result that the
Parliamentary majority which taxed the people
can’t now be found with a microscope. If Cohen
is as wise as his nose would indicate, he will make
a note of these things.
The Victorian Railway Unions.
Three months have passed since the Victorian
Tommy Bent Department gave the unions of rail
way workers notice that they must sever their con’
nection with the Trades Hall. Nothing having
happened since then, the Tommy Bent Department
has again addressed the employees and asked to
know within a fortnight what thev propose dointr
about the matter. If the railway employees’
unions are wise they will continue to do what thev
have been doing, which is nothing. They will
just think hard over the matter indefinitely If
the Bent Department becomes very insistent for a
reply it should be informed, with all possible
courtesy, that the railway unions are thinking
over the matter something tremendous, but
have, so far, been too much tom with’ con
flicting emotions to decide. If the unions
refuse to do what Bent wants they will
make it necessary for an excited Bent to do some-
thing to redeem his reputation as the angriest and
most ill-mannered man in the Government, so the
wisest course is not to refuse, but just to drive the
locomotive as usual. No man should rise up at
any meeting and propose not doing what Bent
desires—in fact, the matter should not be alluded
to in public at all. There is room in a case like
this for the biggest and longest and deadest silence
in Victoria. Bent can then throw himself up
promiscuously against this dead wall of silence till
further notice. There is nothing more futile than
a big angry man hitting at silence with both fists.
A point might be strained, if it was considered
advisable, to enable the railway employees to be
represented at the Trades Hall by someone who
is beyond Bent’s jurisdiction, and everybody
who is within Bent’s jurisdiction should just
consider Bent an ass in his own mind, and leave
him to bray first. Bent can’t sack everybody,
and when everybody is equally buried in thought
it is difficult to decide whom to sack first. If he
does sack anybody over the matter then it will be
time to act, but meanwhile there is wisdom in a
far-off expression and a deeply-abstracted frame
of mind. The difficulty may settle itself if left
alone. Among other possibilities Bent may burst
at any moment with bottled-up emotion.
♦
The Principle of Compulsion.
Syme-on Fraser, by the grace of the Age, a
Senator for Victoria, leading a deputation of
Federated Employers, recently, to Premier
Barton on the subject of industrial arbitration,
“trusted that the Government would not, at a
slack time like this, embitter the relations of
employers and employees by introducing the
principle of compulsion.” Why “ the principle of
compulsion ” should embitter these relations the
Senator didn’t say. If, in Bourke-street, owing
to the bad times, everybody was allowed to drive
as he darn-well pleased, subject only to a process
of voluntary arbitration between him and the
person he drove over, the pretty certain conse-
quence would be that some day, on his way up to
save the country, Senator Fraser would be
landed a cripple in the gutter. Then there would
be unpleasantness; and when the Senator had
got the dirt out of his mouth and bad seen the
doctor’s bill, he would ask in good Scotch, and
with emphasis, why the traffic wasn’t regulated.
If, thereupon, anybody were foolish enough to
reply that to introduce th<f principle of
compulsion would cause unpleasantness, and
embitter relations between the driver and the
executors of the person driven over, especially at
a time when 3 per cent. N.S.W. securities were
down to £B7, Senator Fraser would snort that it
would cause fewer broken heads, anyway. And
supposing, owing to the bad times and the
deficient wool supply, the civil courts, which com-
pulsorily arbitrate between Senator Fraser and
the people who refuse to pay the money they
s‘ustly owe him, were closed up, and Senator
Eraser were left with no remedy save Christian
remonstrance —how would he feel about that?
Suppose even—to put a less extreme case—a
large and violent drunk used threatening
language to Senator Fraser outside Young and
Jackson’s well and favorably known public-house,
and the policeman whom he summoned refused to
do anything more than speak kindly to both
parties till times were better, and A.J.S. Bank
inscribed stock reached at least 125., how would
that appeal to Mr. Fraser ? It is a poor argu-
ment that can’t stand being inspected at the rear
end as well as the front.
Dill Macky Approves.
Cardinal Moran, having suggested in an un-
dignified and distempered speech the formation of
a Roman Catholic association —presumably as a
counterblast to tbe Protestant Defence Associa-
tion—the Rev. Dill Macky has ingenuously ex-
pressed his approval of tbe proposal. Of course
Preacher Dill Macky approves. His precious
association, with its mission of stirring up sec-
tarianism, might at any time be destroyed and
wither like a torn-up weed if the daily newspapers
were to withdraw their support from it and put an
end to reporting religious rowdyism on one side or
the other. But with a Roman Catholic association
also in the field, the Protestant association
would be much safer. The two bodies could lean
up against one another, and each would provide a
fairly solid reason for the existence of the other.
The N.S.W. population does not go to church to
any material extent, but, provided there is enough
encouragement, it will join freely enough m
religious rows. When heads can be broken for
the love of the Lord, the ritual of religion wins a
new attractiveness. There must, however, be the
encouragement. Preacher Dill-Macky has been
doing his best to provide it, and, owing
to the scandalous co-operation of the news-
papers, he has been having some success.
Still, so far, only the fringe of the popu-
lation has been touched —the hoodlums anxious
for a row on any account, the rabbit-brained
capable of being frightened or persuaded into
anything. The great mass of the people looks
upon the whole Macky-Moran squabble with
disgust and contempt. But let a Roman Catholic
association be formed, and it will provide a reason
why thousands should join the Protestant associa-
tion who at present would not dream of doing so,
and they, in turn, will provide a reason for other
R.G.’s to join their particular association tor
stirring up strife, and the two institutions will go
on providing reasons for one another’s exis -
ence indefinitely. Thus folly will breed foliyt
and crime will give rise to crime, and one
broken window to-day will give rise to ten
broken windows and a broken head to-morrow.
Cardinal Moran has given many indications
recently that he has altogether lost that goo
judgment which he was once credited with. Has
the Roman Catholic Church no system by w * uc
it can pension off its servants when they hav
done their work, before they can spoil a goo
record with the querulous follies of advancing
age ? Is there no home for broken-down cardi-
nals, and no ice-chest for overheated !P res by 1 i
clerics, and for the inflamed followers of both
them ?


The Tariff and State Imports.
The decision of the N.S.W. Full Court that
Roods imported to Australia for the use of the
State Governments are not liable to pay duty,
may be good law (that has yet to be settled by a
higher tribunal), but it is certainly bad politics,
and if it is finally established as “good law’’
prompt Parliamentary action will be necessary to
change the law. It would never do for the State
Governments to have the right to import goods
duty free. That would involve a possible
negation of Protection in regard to many
industries, and an injurious differentiation
against private employers. The Australian
State Governments at present carry on
many enterprises which involve the importing
or the manufacturing locally of goods on a
large scale; and the tendency is for Govern-
ment enterprise to extend. At present the
N.S.W. Government is a huge purchaser of iron-
ware of all descriptions, cement, railway car-
riages, machinery, timber, paper, ink, tiles,
pottery, cloth, leather, chemicals, groceries, etc.,
etc. In many of these “lines” it is the
chief purchaser, and its custom is able to
determine the fate of an industry, whether
it is to be local and support Australians,
or foreign and impose a further burden of
remittances abroad on the country. If, then,
State Governments are to be allowed to’import
under Freetrade conditions what goods they
require, there might as well be no Protection at
all in many industries. Experience proves that
when an alleged sturdy Protectionist of the Owe’-
Sullivan type gets into office and is faced with the
necessity of prolonging a works boom on insufficient
funds, he is apt to forget his principles, and act as
a Freetrader to secure a small apparent saving in
the immediate present. Local industry needs to
be protected just as much against'the State
Government as against the individual. The
N.S.W. Supreme Court verdict means that under
the law as it stands, whilst the Austra-
lian Government may declare for high Protec-
tion, State Governments can ignore its decrees,
and follow, as regards their own imports, an
entirely Freetrade policy. And they may ex-
tend their operations to so many classes of
industry that they may become almost the
sole importers of the country. Under such
circumstances a State Government can override
the Federal scheme of Protection in some in-
dustries at once, and in all industries when it
chooses to do so, for there is nothing to prevent a
State abolishing the private importer and doing
all its own importing if it chooses. Then, so far
as that State was concerned, there would be no
tariff, and, with inter-State Freetrade, there
would be no tariff anywhere to all intents and pur-
poses. One State Government that chose to do so
could import dutiable goods free for the whole of
Australia. It seems impossible that a decision
which makes for so much present harm and has so
many possibilities of future damage can be “ good
law ” in spite of the unanimous declaration of the
N.S.W. Judges. But in any case it should not be
allowed to remain as “good law ” when the Aus-
tralian Parliament meets. That body should lose
no time in stating clearly and emphatically that
it intends to impose the same revenue conditions
on State Governments as on State citizens.
♦
The “S.M. Herald’s” Disreputable
Acquaint ances.
The Sydney Morning Herald, in a recent
leading article, gravely defends the swindling
importer after this fashion :
The whole situation created under the Act is a dis-
agreeable one, and, the more successful the Customs
Department is in its prosecutions, the more the feeling
grows that these crime-creating regulations should never
have been rendered possible by the Ministry’s anti-
Federal tariff.
It is a strange thing that this oft-repeated argu-
ment only crops up when some patriotic and
democratic legislation rouses the Herald’s bile.
Of course, law makes crime, and if there were no
law there would be no crime, and so far the
Herald is right. The Education law made the
offence of not sending one’s children to school.
Sanitary laws created it an offence to expectorate
on the pavement or empty offensive matter in the
middle of George-street, Sydney, or to leave large
quantities of bone-dust on the Herald’s doorstep.
Th e law authorising th e issue of paper money created
theoffenceof counterfeiting paper money. Thesta-
tiit-e which prohibits anyone to stave in the head of
“Mr. James” as he goes home from the S.M.
Herald office makes it an offence to stave in the
head of “Mr. James,” and converts an other-
wise perfectly lawful proceeding into a crime.
Temptation and opportunity and law are the
three things that make crime. The chance of
robbing the customs; the chance of defrauding
the local rates department, the income-tax, or
land-tax, or dog-tax, or excise department; the
opportunity of robbing the S.M. Herald office,
or the Bank of New South Wales, or of burgling
Mr. James’s” house; the hope of finding .some
loose change in the pockets of “ Mr. James’s ”
dead body—all these are equally good proof that
indirect taxes, direct taxes, local taxes, the
S.M. Herald, the Bank of N.S.W., and
“Mr. James” should be abolished. Even the
trams and railways should be obliterated by
the Herald’s reasoning, for if there were
no trams and railways, the crime of travelling
thereon without a ticket would never have arisen.
But these are only theories—S. M. Herald
theories. As a matter of practice civilisation
can’t break off short because the S.M. Herald is
on friendly terms with a lot of fraudulent and dis-
reputable characters in the importing business.
And if the tariff were abolished, and the Herald’s
disreputable friends didn’t defraud the Customs
because there were none, the world would be no
single whit the better. The fact that the
Herald’s disreputable friends didn’t perpetrate
this particular swindle would not arise from the
fact that the Herald’s disreputable friends had
become a whit less disreputable, less unpatriotic,
and less of a disgrace to thamoral paper that keeps
company with them. They would be the same
evil-minded, evil-living lot as before —only
their wickedness would be diverted into other
channels. The world can’t afford to abolish the
crime of breaking windows by having no windows
and sitting in the dark. And it ill becomes a
holy paper like the S.M. Herald that, in the
case of the mean, dishonest importer who swin-
dles the customs, it should only see a reason for
having no customs ; while, if a man hits an im-
porter with a bottle, that never, by any chance,
strikes it as a reason for having no importers or
no bottles.
♦
The Naval Tribute Foolishness.
Melbourne Age touches the spot in pointing out
that, when they federated, the Australian States
made no provision for a Federal navy simply
because they had an agreement with the Admiralty
limiting the range of the Australian squadron to
Australian waters. Possibly Australia ought to
have known better than to have trusted blindly to
an agreement which the other side might tear up
almost whenever it pleased. But, then, there did
not appear to be any reason why the other side
should want to. tear it up; on the contrary, the
agreement provided for local defence, and it had
oeen for many years agreed by practically all
j " authorities that Empire defence de-
pended for one of its essentials on local
defence of outlying dependencies. Australia had
received no intimation that this opinion had
tered, and that these local defences were no
onger regarded with a friendly eye. Then the
information was sprung upon this country,
1 t ? r , lnner > that local defences are no longer
looked upon with a friendly eye; that they
are rather regarded as wicked and almost
insurrectionary ; and at the same time Australia
was requested to pay a vastly increased contri-
oution to a fleet which isn’t to remain here for our
fk ? n^ e i n war time - Australia, in fact, is told
that the fleet it pays to defend it will, in future, be
liawe to go away in war time and leave it
efenceless, and at the same time that any
Jdea of organising an Australian fleet which
will defend this country is regarded by the high-
oned British authorities as most objectionable.
Suppose what has been for years regarded as
necessary is presently again admitted to be neces-
®^’.5 hat then ■ Supposing, having agreed to
subsidise a navy which maybe ordered to Hong-
kong or elsewhere, the naval authorities say again
(as they have been saying for years) that local
defences are indispensable ? Only one thing can
in that case follow—Australia, although burdened
with the part-cost of the maintenance of the
miscalled Australian squadron, will, for its own
protection, be obliged to support also a force for
iome defence. So the thing that it says now it
can t afford, it will then have to afford, and the
other thing into the bargain.
♦
The Population Problem.
Ha v ing, m its own quaint way and to its entire
satisfaction, settled the question of finding the
land for people to settle on, by making them the
rack-rented tenants of the big land-grabber,
Melbourne Argus has tackled the question of
finding the people to pervade the said land. The
respectable, but bewildered, journal holds that the
Australian birth-rate is not as buoyant as it should
be ; also, it goes into details, and “the conclusions
froni its premises are frivolous and incompetent,
in the first place, any laws for the suppression of
the use of “preventives” will be practically
ignored ; an insistent demand, backed up by good
coin, is bound to be met by a supply. Suppressive
regulations only mean smuggling and illicit deal-
ing. Moreover, the idea of sundry Argus corres-
pondents . that the traffic can be stopped by
blocking importations is more than absurd • the
drugs mostly used are in daily use for
other and legitimate purposes, and can’t be dis-
pensed with. Secondly, there are two classes
of whom the complaint is made that their families
are too small, even invisible; these two classes are
the men who can t afford it, and the women who
won t, because they think more of a figure than a
family, prefer a ball-room to a nursery. For these
latter there is no remedy, nor would it be much
good if there were; their progeny is likely to be
weedy, the spawn of weaklings mental, moral,
and physical; their contributions to the race
would be neither permanent nor advantageous;
let them go. But the other class must be con-
sidered if the race is to continue. It is from the
children of the worker the race is recruited, and
the worker has begun to say of late years, in
silent but insistent fashion, that he will not sub-
ject his sons to the struggle he has endured, and
that he will in future, as far as he is able, not
handicap himself unnecessarily. He hears his
starving child cry for bread when he is
unemployed, and he asks “What better
am I? ” It is here that the yeoman has one
tremendous advantage over the city toiler; though
the two incomes, pound for pound, be absolutely
equal, the man on the land can rear a family at
far less cost than his city brother. Until they
reach the age when they begin to bring money in,
the farmer’s children cost him hardly anything
beyond the money for an occasional new suit and
boots ; the city worker has to put his hand in his
pocket for everything. There— in the capability
to raise decent-sized families—is where lies the
profit to the State of putting the men on the land,
from the dairy-farmer and cultivator, down past
the village-settler to the workman’s-home occupier
with his acre or so. Every man necessarily
cannot be “on the land,” but, whether he is
there or elsewhere, it is none the less the State’s
duty, if it expects him to raise a family,
to first make sure that he shall have a
fair chance of the wherewithal to raise it.
A casual stranger might be excused for doubting
the genuineness of this cry for more population,
since in every Australian city and town he would
see child-life regarded as heedlessly as a piece of
waste paper; he would see Governments that
apparently thought no more of the culpable waste
of a score of baby citizens than they would of the
spilling of a box of wax matches. Australia
would go a long way to increasing its population
as fast as the most prolific nation if it would spend
more money and time and care in rearing the
children it does breed. (Incidentally it would
also make much profit out of the deal.) And in
addition to raising its birth-rate by making the
lives of its workers better worth living, it can
increase its population by immigration by making
it worth a white foreigner’s while to come here.
Canada is to-day showing this country how to do
that, with its 75 per cent, tariff. Anyhow, the
falling birth-rate and the dozens of letters in the
Argus clearly show that the worker, especially he
of the city, has arrived at the conclusion that the
fuller his quiver the less is he blessed, and he is
now acting on that deduction, and the only way
the Commonwealth can hope to draw him away
from that notion is to provide him and his
apprenticable sons and daughters with ample,
properly-paid work in mills and factories, and
make the locked-up lands available for close
settlement. That plan should at least be tried
before attempts are made at any futile scheme for
compulsorily forcing up an unwilling birth-rate.
♦
The Toryism of Sydney “Telegraph.”
Sydney D.T., under its new editor, departs more
and more from any affectation of radicalism. On
the Victorian constitutional reform position it
openly barracks for the Property House after this
fashion :
Parliament has shown that it is competent to reform
itself. The convention idea, which was adopted by the
Turner-Peacock Government, was fundamentally unfair,
inasmuch as it was intended to be chosen by the As-
sembly’s constituency, and it would have been irrespon-
sible (vanishing when it had done its work), costly, and
certain to delay reform. The Council has successfully
asserted its right, as a co-ordinate House of the Legisla-
ture, to have a real voice in reforming the Constitution.
The first attitude of the Government and Assemblv
amounted to an insolent assertion of the Assembly’s
superior power in the making of Constitutional changes,
and this had to be abandoned. Under the provisions of
the bill the Council is likely to become a stronger House.
It will have the right to request amendments in financial
measures (one-House financial legislation has had a
disastrous history in Australia).
As an unscrupulous misrepresentation of the case
this puts up a pretty fair record. The Turner-
Peacock proposal was that a convention, for the
purpose of drafting a new Victorian Constitution,
should be elected oy the 135,000 Council electors
and the 140,000 electors who have votes only for the
Assembly. Every Council elector was _to
have his say in the choosing of that Convention,
and any statement to the contrary is a lie and a
slander. The only visible reason why the idea
was utterly abhorrent to the Council, and the
Telegraph, and the new Telegraph editor, and
the whole blighting dead-weight of Toryism, was
that any and every elector was to be qualified to
sit in the Convention. Instead of being, as at
Council elections, allowed to choose only rich
Tory landowners, whom most of them hate and
despise—which is just as shamefully unfair as if
only Protectionists were qualified to sit in the
Australian Parliament, and the Telegraph had
to vote for them or not at all—the Council elec-
tors were, for once, to be represented by anybody
they wished to appoint. That was where the utterly
objectionable nature of the Turner-Peacock
Convention proposal came in. As for the jibe that
“one-House financial legislation has had a disas-
trous effect in Australia ” that is also a lie, for
there has never been one-House financial legisla-
tion in any Australian State since the luckless bi-
cameral system commenced. Every Upper House
has had absolute power to reject every Loan Bill
that came before it, by way of insisting on the
country living within its means—and can anyone
recollect when one single Loan Bill has been re-
jected ? Every Upper House has had power to
throw out every disastrous railway scheme in its
State’s history, and how many have been thrown
out ? It is under two-House financial legislation
that Australia has accumulated all its disasters:
it had now better try the one-House variety for a
change.
»
Sydney Labor Council held a meeting last week
at which various things were proposed—this being
one of them :
Mr. Rose declared he would be in favor of borrowing
another £17,000,000 to distribute among the people who
required it. If they could not get the money in London,
let them go to another country. He was sure that
“ Yankee Doodle ” would fork out what they required.
If they went to Germany he believed the Kaiser would
put his hand into his pocket and give them as much
money as they wanted.
First instinct of the distressed Australian—to
borrow something. And last year N.S.W. im-
ported something like .£18,000,000 worth of goods
from foreign countries, at least half of which could
have been easily made here. That would mean
£9,000,000 worth of work, £9,000,000 worth of
wages, employment at =£lso a year each for 60,000
men, and support for their6o,ooofamilies. But New
South Wales persistently sends Freetrade impor-
ters to the Australian Parliament, and votes for not
having these industries, and not having £9,000,000
a year to distribute, and not having work for these
60,000 extra men, and it is N.S. W.’s vote that
made the Federal tariff the comparatively futile
thing it is.
♦
The Maoriland W.C.T.U. has just completed its
annual wallow, or convention, and has emerged
from the mud-hole of moral consideration with its
mouth full of shocking information about the
social evil, illegitimacy, disrespectful assaults,
age of consent, and other tasty fragments chipped
from the weakness of humanity. The delegates
struggle back on to the dry shore of everyday life,
cheered and invigorated, and armed with material
sufficient to make the proceedings at every
Thursday sewing guild in the country sizzle like
a fried sausage for a year to come. As a result
of the Convention’s deliberations, it is abundantly
manifest that the world outside of the clamorous
coterie of Cant is made up of irretrievably tight
men and loose women. The usual deputation,
largely composed of the usual helpless and hope-
less spinsters, was appointed to wait on the
Premier, urging him to raise the age of consent
from 16 to 21 years. Save as affording an oppor-
tunity for a number of ladies to speak severely to
a man on an embarassing subject, these annual
deputations are not remarkable in any way. They
do very little harm to the morals of the Premier,
and they lead to nothing worth mentioning. There
is the usual speech, the usual glare at Seddon
through several pairs of blue spectacles, and the
usual answer. Then the deputation gathers up
its moral titbit, and backs off into private life.
♦
J. H. Carruthers, leader of N.S.W. Opposition,
at the Retail Grocers and Storekeepers’ Associa-
tion picnic, t’other day:
Although he had voted against female suffrage being
made law, on the grounds that he thought more of the
women than those who had given them the right to vote
—now that the women had the franchise, he believed
their moral influence would raise the tone of the political
life of the country, and make the Parliament of the State
better than it was to-day.
In other words, either (1) Mr. Carruthers deli-
berately and wickedly voted against a measure
that would make the N.S.W. Parliament better;
or (2) he voted as he did because his ignorance
and stupidity led him then to think woman
suffrage was bad ; or (3) he talks as he does now
because his ignorance and stupidity lead him now
to think woman suffrage is good ; or (4) he simply
said woman suffrage was bad when he thought it
wasn’t coming, and he simply says it is good now
that it has come, and it is necessary to placate
the woman voter, and it is all a matter of oiliness
and expediency. Anyhow, Carruthers says
now that woman suffrage is a good thing, and
that he fought against it.
Nearly the whole Australian tragedy was written
in three magnificent paragraphs in Friday’s papers
last week :
1. —Altogether nearly £4,500,000 in gold has been
shipped from the Commonwealth during the first quarter
of 1903.
2. —The coroner inquired to-day into the suicide of
Eliza Jane White. Her husband stated that she had
been despondent owing to poverty. The husband tried
to comfort her, but on Tuesday she disappeared, leaving
the following letter :—“ I cannot bear to live on and see
you suffer as you do in mind. We have loved each other
dearly and got through great reverses, but now there
seems no hope or prospect for our future. Do not try to
find me, as it is better I should go into oblivion and not
be an expense to anyone. You, unfortunately, I know,
have not any means.”
3.—THE UNEMPLOYED.
Labor Council Discussion.
Suggestions for Creating Work.
Further Public Borrowing Favored.
Four and a half millions gone in three months to
pay interest on money which we have borrowed to
get things that mostly do not pay, or to pay for
things that we ought to have been making or do>ng
for ourselves; our people starving because they
can’t get work, the things they ought to make
being imported; and the people’s leaders still
crying for no other remedy than a hair of the dog
that bit them.
♦
There begins to be hope when men like David
Elder, of the N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Co., the
Union Trustees Co., and other concerns of the
kind, will publicly say most of the things that
The Bulletin has been saying for years regarding
Australian finances:
It would be well for the Government of the day to
make an authoritative announcement that, except for
loans for conversion purposes and possibly for irrigation
works, no further appeals for money would be made to
the British investors, and this could safely be done, as
there was now a sufficient yearly accumulation of savings
to meet all other prudent public expenditure. In addi-
tion, it would be well also for Parliament to give the
Savings Bank Commissioners power to purchase deben-
tures in the London market when selling at a price which
would show a margin of profit over what the bank is
paying depositors.
This was spoken “ from the cold-blooded point of
the investor; ” but the result is precisely tne same
if the position is viewed from the warm-blooded
Australian nationalist standpoint. The first prin-
ciple of patriotism, in fact, is to pay your debts,
keep out of pawn, and retain possession of your
own soul.
4
Aggregate Respectability, through its represen-
tative men, its parsons and its press, holds up its
hands in horror at the spectacle of two boxers en-
gaged in what it calls “a brutal fight to a finish,”
yet the same Respectability utterly declines the
intervention of any third party when itself en-
gaged in an even more savage combat. The
locked-out Outtrim miners have repeatedly asked
the mine-owners to go to arbitration, and these
have just as repeatedly refused, preferring to fight
the matter out till one side or the other is ex-
hausted and wives and children are starving.
And fool Governments stand idly by and allow
such fights to a finish to take place, while their
citizens and their property are wrecked and ruined.
4
“ Arthur D.” writes :
. Under the Western Lands Act, Parliament undoubtedly
intended that the lands of the Western Division should
be controlled by a Board free from political influence.
The salaries fixed were high—£lsoo per annum for the
Chairman and £lOOO for each of the other Commissioners
—while the appointments were made for a period of seven
years. Evidence does not seem wanting, however, that
the Minister for Lands intends to, as far as possible
assert his views in much the same fashion as he and his
predecessors have done in dealing with Land Boards in
the past. The evil of Land-boardism has always been the
levying of excessive rents by means of the leverage
afforded by the tenants’ improvements—a process of
extracting the life’s blood of the pastoral industry which
has worked most successfully for the revenue, in spite of
the many checks received by Lands Boards from the
Land Court. It was not unreasonable to hope that a new
and independent order of Land Board would determine
at all costs to put an end to the evil which has for so long
had a bad effect on our staple industry. The provisional
rents, however, gazetted by the Commissioners—amount-
ing as they do to an average of 21 ’6 pence per sheep for
the Wilcannia district and to about 20 pence per sheep
for Goodooga holdings—are more suggestive of an astute
lawyer, bent on raking in the shekels, than of an inde-
pendent Board appointed under an Act, the 19th section
of which lays down that “in no case shall the rent or
license fee be fixed at a higher rate than seven pence per
sheep on the carrying capacity.”
4
“ Yanco ” writes from a Western town
I notice in your issue of 21st inst., a leader under the
head of “An Unemployed Deputation,” which certainly
boils down the question of the future government of
Australia to the dimensions of a nutshell. But, more’s
the pity, to some extent it will be so much wasted energy
cm your part, because it seems to be an utter impossi-
bility to get the Australian to see past the end of his
proverbial nose. In your “ Plain English ” column I also
notice a reference to State education as advocated by
Minister Perry. . Besides instilling honor, patriotism,
integrity, self-reliance, and (above all) independence, it
would be to Minister Perry's credit to have your leader
printed on calico, in big type, and hung in every school
in the State, and to have teachers specially instructed to
inculcate the same into the young brains under their
charge. It would also be a good idea to have the
same nailed to every gum-tree in the Commonwealth.
Even then the casual Australian would prob-
ably take a generation or two to wake up to a
sense of his actual position. If Australia lived
under Freetrade—in its actual sense, and not in the pie-
bald sense that is now attached to the term—it would
produce no revenue from the Custom-house. Then White
Australia, with its “ inexhaustible natural resources,” its
eight-hour system, and its minimum wage, would find it
impossible to compete against the made-in-Germany stuff
and similar tack manufactured in other foreign countries.
If, therefore, the Freetrade party had its way, practically
the whole population —barring, of course, the “man on
the land ” and those engaged quarrying those mountains
of gold out Arltunga way—would be more or less engaged
in the importing trade. Analysing their policy, we get
this mournful picture. Imagine a man perched on Circu-
lar Quay firmly convinced that Freetrade, eight hours,
and a minimum wage are ideals for the people, and also
resolutely convinced that it is impossible to compete
against foreign productions, awaiting the arrival of the
foreign vessel, manned by colored crews, and stocked
with goods the production of sweated serfdom, and then
borrowing money from foreign Jews at 4 per shent, out
of which to pay himself his own wages in order to enable
him to purchase the necessaries of existence. Surely
another sad example of the waiting-for-something-to-crop-
up trait of the Australian national character. The sooner
Australia gets a new school of politicians the better.
♦
The drought has filled the Far West (N.S.W.)
tracks with evil-smelling camels, and dotted the
townships with still more evil-smelling camel
camps; and Broken Hill, which has enough native
odors, begins to rebel, and to kick the colored
alien hard. But the alien, who has waxed fat and
offensive, dosen’t take it sitting; one Musa Khan,
who drives the flashest turn-out in the place',
makes a public defence that it is the white who is
the mean person. “It will not be very long
before white men,” he says, “will be employed as
camel drivers because the Afghans are demanding
too much wages.” And in that Musa Khan pro-
bably speaks the truth this far: that, though
the alien will still accept little, the white
man is being driven to accept less. From the
national point of view, an even worse feature is
the “settling” of the Afghan; round almost
every camp there is already growing up a piebald
population. The white man has only one hope :
he must keep the tinted alien out.
■ ♦
In a logical, forceful speech lately, Vic. M.L.A
Anstey showed Premier Irvine and his Bent
what they should have known all along—that the
Victorian railways pay better than the average of
thinly-peopled countries, given a fair comparison,
and that there is no hope of making them pay
better, except by closer settlement on the locked-
up lands alongside. The new Commissioner from
Canada—whose salary jumps at a bound from
£9OO to £3soo—is foredoomed to failure. The
Canadian lines in ’Ol averaged a little over 2 per
cent, interest, and Canada’s 18,000 miles of line
were helped along by the rents from, and the par-
tial sale of, 52,000,000 acres of land. One-fourth
of the capital of the Dominion’s private lines
was a present from the people of Canada.
The Canadian co.’s don’t have to fence their
lines, or provide cattle-pits all over the
country, or carry seed wheat and starving stock
free, or convey produce at special drought rates.
Their working expenses for every train mile run
are heavier than those of Victoria, and they make
less profit on each mile run with all their ad-
vantages. The Irvine-Bent Government brings
a man from this land of railway failure to
show how to make the Victorian railways pay,
when they pay already a great deal better than
the lines in Tait’s own country. Evidently Bent
and Irvine don’t understand a joke when they see
one.


SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD I
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
Admitted Assets, January 1, 1903, £78,528,000.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.
About the time Australia was taken possession of by Captain Cook, the following
was law in some of the then British Colonies of America : “That whosoever kills, or
suffers to be killed, or sells or disposes of to any person whom he has reason to believe
intends to kill, any Ewe Lamb shall be guilty,” &c., &c.
Most of the thoughtful and patriotic colonists of New South Wales are of opinion
that our Legislature might do worse than enact something of the same kind for the
protection of the remnant of the State’s flocks which have been decimated by the
droughts of the past seven years. If our Statesmen should rise to the occasion and do
what is necessary, Mutton and Sheep’s Tongues would of course be much enhanced in
value. In any case, you can now obtain the ROSEWARNE PACKING CO. S
brand, which is the best in the market, at the same price as they were in the time ot
plenty. Try them ; they are delicious, wholesome, and economical.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “A Woman of Pleasure."
Criterion..„ ........... “Charley’s Aunt.”
Royal “ Dick Whittington.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “Are You a Mason?”
Belmore Park Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “ Midsummer Night’s Dream."
Her Majesty’s “ Ma Mie Rosette.”
Theatre Royal “ The Prodigal Daughter.”
Bijou ~ _ .. “ Mistakes Will Happen.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Edward Lloyd Concerts.
Wirth’s Grounds (Below \ w . ~, , n .
Prince’s Bridge) / W,rth Bro9 ' oircus -
♦
Fitzgeralds’ Circus opened at Belmore
Park last Saturday to a city practically bereft of
its theatres. There are two or three novel fea-
tures in the show and a fair number of old ones.
The kicking pony January, and Silver King, a
quieter type of beast, are here as before. The
performing dogs have learned to walk kangaroo
fashion and to dress themselves, and are other-
wise estimable beasts. The Walhallas annoy
no one by pitching their hats on each other’s
heads; and Miss Katie Montgomery is, as before,
principal equestrienne in the show. The cycle whizz
is undoubtedly the second best item in the perform-
ance. Four cyclists ride a specially-constructed
track at an angle of 60 degrees, and the smash-up
that would ensue if Lycurgus shifted the hun-
dredth part of an inch too near Curdello, or
the foot of Summers grazed the right ear of
Shand, is interesting to speculate upon. Herr
Pagel, the main feature of the show, does not pre-
sent the top-heavy aspect of Sandow, and in his
Samson-like attire has altogether a better appear-
ance than his brother giant. He ties a horse to
his waist and mounts a ladder, supports a plat-
form with 18cwt. upon it, and, entering the lion’s
den, tosses that personage about in the air and
shows the audience his pretty teeth. After
which he folds his arms and looks abnormally
gentle. Gilleno, an excited-looking gentleman in
a red magician’s robe, plays tunes on various de-
funct animals and kitchen utensils, and by waving
an oblong box above his head produces the effect of
chimes. He discourses lively melodies on cabbages
and sad ones on ducks, though why a duck should
be sadder than a cabbage is not explained. His
anthem on a pair of bellows may also be com-
mended. Some persons, described as Flying
Meteors, move about the circus by means of roll-
ing globes and trapezes, and the exhibition of
high-jumping by Newhaven and Stockman rounds
off the show in a satisfactory manner.
* * * *
Several Sydney theatres, including the
Lyceum and the Criterion, farewelled last Satur-
day, Bland Holt finishing up with “The War of
Wealth,” Johnny Sheridan ended as he began
with “The Lady Slavey.” Johnny was given a
fold watch on this occasion, which is only right.
)uring the season John has been bestowing
watches, bangles and eulogistic speeches on various
members of his company. Mostly everyone in the
co. has got a gold watch or some other trophy.
Some of them, for their acting, ought to get six
months. The company expects to return in seven
weeks.
* * * «
At Sydney Palace “On and Off” concludes
with this week. It has proved a far better draw-
ing attraction than “The Wrong Mr. Wright,”
and should do well in the other capitals. “Are
You a Mason?” will introduce to the Sydney
public an entirely new English comedy co. at the
Palace next Saturday. Sydney likes new faces —
especially when they are pretty faces. Some of
the “ Mason ” co.’s girls are very pretty, and the
rest are beautiful. A brilliant first night and a
successful season may be therefore anticipated.
* * * * '
On Saturday many things are supposed to
happen in Sydney. The Royal re-opens with the
gorgeous “Dick Whittington,” in which the com-
bined gorgeousness of J. C. Williamson and his
old-time partner, George Musgrove, is to glare on
an astonished public. Frank Thornton is to per-
vade the Criterion on the same night with
“Charley’s Aunt,” and as Thornton has never yet
failed to strike it rich in Australia the probability
is that he won’t fail this time. The little, swift,
crinkled comedian who first really dawned on this
country when the eye of the Private Secretary
looked apologetically round the door, and
the attached voice asked if the goloshed
feet might come in, has never, since that
episode, lost his hold on Australia’s affections.
William Anderson also opens the Lyceum on
Saturday with a huge melodrama, “ A Woman of
Pleasure.” These, added to the circus, and the
Tivoli, and the fact that Williamson is staging a
new show at the Palace, and the yesterday’s
undigested Bun, are likely to make Sydney a busy
place on Saturday. At time of writing, how-
ever, most of the theatres are closed, and there is
little stirring socially, intellectually or politically
(save where all three parties are explaining that
they won at Tamwortn), and the note of expect-
ancy, which is said to be Australia’s dominant
characteristic, is more than usually in evidence.
* * * *
The “ Vesuvio Concert Co.” appearing at
Sydney Tivoli last Saturday, looked at first sight
a joke. A group of very plump Italians, dressed
in comic-opera fishing costume (and patent-leather
boots) —they strongly reminded the audience of
the swarthy Levantines who bring the plates
around in the temples of the immoral oyster and
the pernicious prawn. But the Italian gentlemen
in the fishing costumes (and patent-leather boots)
were not a joke. They took themselves with
extreme seriousness, especially an extra-plump
tenor whose killing glances searched every female
face from the gallery to the stalls; and, on the
whole, they deserved to be taken fairly seriously.
The instrumentalists are very good—especially a
violinist with the unhappy name of Strumillo.
The tenor has a very small but still a sweet voice,
a much-diluted Dani voice. The baritone has to
be taken more than seriously, for he is a very
solemn circumstance indeed. For Easter week
the Tivoli has prepared an almost entire change
of programme. The “first part ”isto be restored
with a Tennis Court scene ; Trevolo, a ventrilo-
quest from U.S.A., Rod da Perry, the alto, Seeley
and West with a musical turn, and H. C. Buckler,
baritone, will be among the new people, and Hill
and Sylvainy will shine as of yore.
* * * *■
The tent which Wirth Bros, pegged out
upon the lowlands, sou’-east of Prince’s Bridge,
contains seating accommodation for 4000 people,
but the space doesn’t exceed the Easter demand
for circus. Melbourne loves circus with a deep,
abiding affection, and the present show gives two
or three new knocks to the old popular weakness.
There are two rings at Wirths’—one for the
educated ’osses and the various human marvels of
the arena ; and a companion ring with iron rail-
ings round it, where three tigers kindly refrain
from chawing their sovereign lord, the King of
Animal Trainers. Tiger Kitty walks a tight-
rope, and contributes a beautiful jockey act, after
which her mates join her in a round of dissipa-
tion. The tigers are a bright entertainment.
A combination of elephant, camel, bear and
monkey is humorous mainly on account of the
weird, self-contained camel ; also the clowns have
fleeting moments of humor, especially the one de-
scribed as “ Continental.” The toilers who turn
somersaults and hang on to things by their heels
are only second-rate Marvels, whereas the gee-gee
section of the show is first-rate and not too long
drawn out. Most of the 30 turns on the programme
are necessarily brief, because the Howard Bros,
performance lasts a full half-hour. The Howards
puzzled a critical audience in the small hall at the
Athenaeum some days ago. Their display at the
Circus, where Andy, the roaming brother, can be
only faintly audible to James, the blind revealer,
is a more astounding achievement. When the
vociferous Howard, who sits in darkness, an-
nounces that his remote coadjutor is looking at a
shark’s tooth or a female baby, and, furthermore,
throws in the name of the baby as a guarantee of
good faith, the success of Wirths’ Circus seems
assured.
** * *
Three of the Melbourne theatres will be
closed on Thursday. On Saturday all five houses
enter into a violent competition, which is the soul
of business and the cause of grief. At Her
Majesty’s, the end of “The Emerald Isle” was
fixed for Monday, and some more “Geisha” is
now happening. On Saturday comes a revival of
“Ma Mie Rosette,” the dear girl who dreamed
that she went to the back door of King Henri’s
palace with a cargo of eggs and butter, and got
taken in and caressed by that sultry potentate.
It is understood that Carrie Moore will play
Rosette, whilst Thorley pursues the girls with
ardor, and Hugh Ward impersonates the remnants
of a war-stained colonel.
** * *
At the Princess’s the long expected pro-
duction of “A Midsummer Night's Dream”
comes to pass on Saturday. About 15 imported
artists will face an Australian audience for the
first time in this spectacular work of W. Shake-
speare, and many tons of machinery have been
imported to do honor to the deceased gentleman’s
genius. If Melbourne wants an impressive revival
of William’s fairy comedy the coming production
will doubtless fill the want. Meanwhile it looks
as though the mind of General Desire is not quite
made up.
*# * *
Bland Holt, with his co.. and army of
camp followers, returns to Melbourne this week
for the purpose of resuming business at the Royal
next Saturday. A whole year has passed since
the indefatigable Sultan of Melodrama spread
himself upon Australia’s largest stage, and he
intends to make full use of the floor-room on this
joyful occasion. “The Prodigal Daughter” was
ever an exciting horse show and a particular
feast of Brunton. This time the scenery promises
to be even more charmingly Bruntonic than
heretofore, also the preparations for the Grand
National Steeplechase are of an appalling descrip-
tion.
** * *
The Willoughby-Geach co., which received
its baptism of praise at Melbourne Bijou last
Easter, will come back to its starting point on
Saturday (11th) with the laurels of a 12 months’
tour twined around its brow. The particular
farcical comedy selected by George Willoughby
for his triumphal re-entrance is “ Mistakes Will
Happen.” Charles Arnold bought it in England
for the funniest of comedies, and the verdict of
Melbourne is expected to be uproarious.
** * *
Edward Lloyd makes his first Melbourne
appearance at the Town Hall on Saturday (11th),
and all citizens possessed of intelligent ideas about
the art of ballad singing will go out of their way
to hear Edward Lloyd sing. Age has not
withered his famous tenor voice, and the advt.
which describes Lloyd as the greatest living tenor
is speaking no more than truth. He will sing at
four ballad concerts, the last of them being dated
Friday, 17 th.
** * *
At Adelaide Tivoli, G. W. Hunter (of
London) shows himself a comedian of the most
E renounced London type. Most of his songs are
is own composition. Brownlow is going in for
action-songs, and works his audience up to
immense enthusiasm with “Gunga Din.” Two
new end-men, Cottier and Rocks, have replaced
Pope and Sayles, who are getting up a small
travelling co. of their own. Manager Pollock, of
the Royal, is back from the other States with a
long list of bookings, and the theatre opens this
Saturday with a programme that stretches
straight ahead to next February. Beaumont Read,
the veteran falsetto singer, is to take a Town Hall
farewell on Good Friday. It may be mentioned,
as a side issue, that the colored brother has been
running Adelaide this week. What with Taylor
at the Oval, being personally introduced to the
vice-regal party, and having a badge hung round
his neck by Lady Smith ; Irving, Sayles and
Charles Pope pretty nearly running the show at
the Tivoli (and Brownlow at the same house
assuring Gunga Din that “ You’re a better man
than I am ”), there seems hardly room for the
mere White Man to turn round.
** * *
The story of the Howard Bros, reminds
one of the broguey Irishman on “ The Emerald
Isle ” who states in a plain, commercial way that
he “ learned blind fiddlin’ ” from his father.
Howard pbre was a medical man with a leaning
towards wizardry, and he trained his little daugh-
ter in the art of “blind-seeing,” or whatever its
technical name may be. Dr. Howard and little
Louie were well-known entertainers long before
the Howard Bros, made their mark. They have
been at work on their secret means of communi-
cation ever since they were children, and they are
utterly dependent upon one another for their suc-
cess. The brothers may be said to smash up the
old conjuring-book stories as to how the “second
sight ” answers are obtained from a blindfolded
performer. It has been gravely stated that a
speaking tube runs under the stage into the
wizard’s chair and he gets his information that
way. The Howard seer has his chair on the cold
ground, and answers on the instant questions
which his brother is dropping—quite casual like—
from the far end of the circus.
A Warning.
N.S.W. Opposition candidate has won the Tam-
worth by-election through the splitting of the
“ other-side ” vote between a Government and a
Labor candidate. The electors evidently re-
garded the Government and Labor parties as two
souls with but a single loan, two hearts that bor-
row as one, and those who were not misled by the
Sydney daily papers to vote for the Cohen candr
date—the man whose election is to make the
getting of a loan easier—misled themselves by
supporting either the Government man or
the Labor man. If there were any electors in
Tamworth really seized of the necessities of
the present situation in N.S.W. they probably
did not vote at all, for it was not possible to
imagine that anyone’s success would be of value.
The Labor candidate, by the way, got a con-
temptuously small vote, and that should help to
impress upon his organisation the hopelessness of
continuing in its present hide-bound policy. Most
of the benefits that the Labor party promised the
industrial classes of the cities it has now secured
—direct taxation which wouldn’t tax them,
industrial arbitration, old age pensions, early
closing of shops and regulation of factories,
a Government minimum wage and day labor
system, and so on. Now the party must
move to fresh fields of reform if it is to
continue its existence. The two most pressing
(and in a measure co-related) reforms have to do
vvith the finances and with landlordism. There is
demanded now of a genuine Reform Party a
stoppage of the borrowing system and a destruc-
tion of the system by which companies and in-
dividuals—in many cases absentees —are allowed
to monopolise much of the best agricultural land
of the State, forcing the poor man who wishes “ to
go on the land ” out into the arid west. On
neither of these questions does the Labor Party
speak with anything like decision. If it were to
declare for a graduated land tax —falling with
special severity on big estates and with
overwhelming severity on the estates of
absentees —and for a higher income tax on
very big incomes, and a specially high income-tax
for absentees, there would, with proper economy,
be a quite sufficient revenue to allow of a complete
stoppage of borrowing. The graduated land-tax
would not alone benefit the Treasury directly but
would also force up the railway and customs
receipts. The Labor party must go to the country
next election, with a radically progressive plat-
form for the future, or it will fall. It cannot rely
on its past. A past is of no use in politics. To
stay on and be a mere borrowing party and a
party that heads unemployed deputations is of no
use either.
4.
“ Scalpel ” writes : Touching “ Ooloo’s ”
“tales of horror” (B. 14/3/’O3). A Sydney doctor
once gave me particulars of the shuddersome case
in which one of Victoria’s leading surgeons, having
operated on a woman for uterine trouble, closed
up the wound leaving inside the patient a sponge
and a pair of bulldog forceps ! A fact almost as
strange as the strange story of the operator who
left a patient’s liver on the table and forgot to
replace it. I don’t think the Victorian surgeon
ever got his tools back, but he was an airy sort of
practitioner and never troubled about trifles.
“ T.D.” : There is not the slightest chance,
while the Australian Labor parties continue to see
no further than their noses, of any adoption of
The Bulletin’s suggestion that the wives of
imprisoned husbands should be provided for out
of the proceeds of work done by their worse halves
in gaol. A good deal of work used to be done in
the Vic. gaols, but the Trades’ Hall influence put
an end to that, and all that is done in Pentridge
now is the manufacture of a few articles to supply
interior wants. Even the official departments
have been restrained from availing themselves of
the good workmanship done by gaoled cabinet-
makers and others. It is impossible to convince
the average Labor member, or the man who wants
to be a Labor member, that work is wealth, and
that it is better to have a hard-working convict
supporting a well-fed family than a useless
prisoner and a charity-seeking wife and kids.
A few examples of how the N.S.W. Public
Service Board’s regulations work out:
A junior in the Professional Division applies for the
annual increase and is informed by the Board that there
is no provision made for increases to the Professional
Division—only for the Clerical. This is just after he has
passed his exam, to enable him to be promoted from the
Clerical to the Professional Division, so his hard study
and his success and his promotion only result in
stopping all further expansion in his salary. Another
officer in the Clerical Division is promoted to
the Professional and receives £l5O per annum
after 13 years’ service, and then stops at that salary,
while a junior clerk, who enters the service at £5O
a year, receives £l3O in three years without passing any
examination—not even the one which the regulations say
he must pass in order to get beyond £llO. Another clerk
passes an examination which, according to the regula-
tions, brings him a higher salary. He doesn’t get the
higher salary. On application he learns that the Board
is looking into the matter. That is six months ago, and
the Board is still looking. All this is the record of one
small office.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The N.S.W. Government has, so far won its
silly case (apparently undertaken out of sheer mean can
tankerousness) against the Australian Government and
got a decision that goods imported by .the State Govern
ments are not liable to duty (a decision which, it is to be
hoped, in the interests of common sense and of Australia’s
prosperity, will presently be reversed on appeal! ww
has it gained ? This is how things were— ’ 1
(1) The N.S.W. State Government paid the duty on its
imports to the Australian Government. (Where the
imports were goods paid for out of loans, it, out of its
natural and essential inability to go straight, paid the
duty out of loans.)
(2) The Australian Government handed back the duty
at the monthly division of the surplus, and
State Government put it into revenue. (This dodge of
transferring loan money to revenue was no part of the
Federal Customs system ; it arose out of the inability of
the N.S.W. Government to go straight if there was a
chance to go otherwise.)
And this is how things will be now if the disastrous
decision of N.S.W. Supreme Court holds good.
(L) The Australian Government will deduct from its
payments to N.S.W. the amount of the duty which it
wrongly refunded to N.S.W.—that will come out of
N.S.W. revenue.
(2) With this sum it will repay N.S.W. the amount it
wrongly charged, to N.S.W.—that will, in common
honesty, go back into the N.S.W. loan funds.
(3) The N.S.W. revenue, which already shows a large
deficit, will therefore show a larger deficit.
(4) N.S.W. pays all the law costs, for the Australian
Government can only pay by having so much less surplus
to refund to N.S.W.
(5) Finally, the alleged Protectionist Government of
N.S.W., if this decision holds good, is a successful (and if
the decision doesn’t hold good, an unsuccessful) traitor
to its alleged principles, a turncoat, a Judas Iscariot, and
an objectionable character generally.
* • • •
The Union Trustee Co. (Melb.) has made no
more profit than usual :
Investment-
Profits. Dividends. Ordinary Fluctuation
Reserves. Reserve.
Feb., 1892.. £5616 6p.c.=£4429 £2166 -
„ 1893.. 4306 6 „ „ 4429 2043
„ 1894.. 2797 4„ „ 2953 1887
„ 1895.. 3649 4,, ~ 2953 2583
„ 1896.. 555 2„ „ 1476 1662
„ 1897.. 2742 4„ „ 2953 1451 2789
„ 1898.. 3006 4 „ „ 2953 1503 674
„ 1899.. 2299 4 „ „ 2953 849
„ 1900.. 1066 IJ,, „ 1107 808 819
~ 1901.. 2722 3J., „ 2584 946 306
„ 1902.. 2886 4 „ „ 2953 879 1006
„ 1903.. 2848 4 ~ „ 2953 774 314
The co. continues to distribute more than it earns;
though, evidently excusing this unhealthy feature, the
chairman has explained that it has in hand a sub-
stantial sum of as yet unaccrued commission on estates
in process of realisation. As usual, the profils derived
from the trustee business arid the dividends earned
by investments are not distinguished. Appar-
ently the business profits are very small indeed;
the investments alone ought to be returning at
least £2700, reckoning the return from loans on first
mortgage (£21,752 of the co.'s total investments of
£67,655) at an average of 5 per cent. Practically, there-
fore, it may be said that the co. makes all its profit out of
the investment of its own capital, mainly in as solid State
securities as can be got. Resides its ordinary reserves,
now very small, there is an Investment Fluctuation
Account, which is now also very low. Possibly it
is a significant fact, possibly it is only a curious one, that
of all the co.’s stock securities the only one which isn’t
worth less now than it was 12 months ago is a parcel of
brewery debentures.
Strictly speaking, the Union Trustee Co.’s
reserves are less than shown above. Hitherto the practice
has been to take in at current market prices the Vic. and
Queensland stock and debentures, which are held in terms
of the Co.’s incorporating Act. This year, however, while
the other stock investments are thus dealt with, these
two obligatory investments are taken in at par. Twelve
months ago they were included as worth £33,084 ; now
their par value (£32,400) is set down, although VictoriaD
3 per cents, stood at the end of Feb. at about 97£, and
the Queensland debentures were also at a discount.
These probably would have been written down, too,
as far as they ought to go if the Fluctuation Reserve
would have stood that much shock ; but it wouldn’t. If
the securities recover, the co. will come out all right; if
they don’t, it will have to take something out of profits
to strengthen the reserve for the purpose.
* • * *
Much surprise has been expressed, officially and
otherwise, at the small value placed upon Daniel Cooper s
estate in N.S.W. Will the Stamp Commissioner insist
upon an official valuation ? He has done so in many
minor cases, and has now an opportunity of showing how
valuations are made for probate.
• 9 * *
The Wellington and Manawatu Railway
Co. (M.L.) last year sold a slice of its splendid land grant
estate, and the year’s returns glitter accordingly
tj, . Railway Land Dividends and Total
* eD - Profits. Profits. Bonus. Reserves.
1898 £63.12*
1899 £6258 £1849 6 p.c. = £8,600 62,731
1900 8094 8099 5 „ „ 8,600 70,424
1901 8773 7866 6 „ „ 10,200 76,863
1902 7969 3624 6 „ ~ 10,200 '8,256
1903 10,361 35,221 16 „ „ 27,200 96,638
The result is calculated to make the Wellington ana
Manawatu shareholder feel good. The effect on tne
Maorilander who isn’t a shareholder may reasonably «e
different. As his dividend he may draw the consolation
of knowing that some years ago, the Govt., on behalf or
the people, gave away to this co., besides part of a rail-
way line, a large amount of country, a comparatively
small part of which has just been sold back to the people
at a net profit to the company of £35,221. That by way
of their dividend. By way of their bonus the sarn
people may draw the further consolation that the co. na
a lot more land, given to it by the people, which som
day it will sell back to the people at an even lan? er P(°
than this—if it can get it. It is a very fine object les ®°
for S. Australia ; at least, it would have been a ' e fT n
object lesson a few 7 months ago if S. Australia hadn t oee
then too tired to take notice of anything less
than an earthquake. The Bulletin isn’t sure T^ c - n a
community like that does not deserve all the JenK
land-grant railway it gets ; the only difficulty is that t
sins of the fathers are visited on the children to t
third and fourth generations, and that doesn t squ.
with this paper’s theology.


V
a
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
STOCKS in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing- Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. INDE N TS .—LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.|
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEP LAS TRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches — Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
Let knowledge grow from more to more.”
Gasoline furnaces defy competition. Plumbago and all
crucibles, assayers’ outfits are supplied by Ernest de
Beer, Bourke-street, Melb.*
* • * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S. W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* » * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOjin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch. •
• • * •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-sfc., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
• * * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develop, with option of
purchase “ big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address : “ Option,”
Melbourne •
* • • *
H. Brandon Skertehly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and enquiries re mining properties, properly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertehly, 7 Central Chambers, Queen-st., Brisbane.*
• * » *
The Policy Holder, July, 1902 writes
“Established in 1873 the Colonial Mutual from the outset
has had a surprising amount of energy and enterprise
infused into its management. In all 88,299 policies
covering £26,826,380 have been issued.”*
• • * »
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* « » *
The balance-sheet of the Great Southern Con-
sols G.M. Co. (Vic.) for the last half-year shows that the
underground electric haulage plant, which was supplied
and erected about seven months ago by the Austral Otis
Engineering Coy., South Melbourne, sole representatives
of Ganz and Co. Ltd., Budapest, Hungary, has effected a
saving of 60 per cent, in manual labor required to operate
the mine. This excellent result, and the great satisfac-
tion the plant has given, has influenced the directors of
the Berry Consols Extended Company in placing an order
for a similar plant with the same firm. The plant will
consist of a generating station, three underground loco-
motives, and a complete electric lighting installation.
This order furnishes further evidence of the high esteem
in which Ganz’s apparatus is held in Australia.*
INSIST OH GETTINGS^
- 5 I k: ed A\ang o,
xx «* G K& GREEN A\ANGO,C/\SH MERE.
* MADRAS* , C
All Grocers and^rorefeepers,Lveryiuf] t ,,>
SCHWEPPES DRY GINGER ALE
A record established by no other Mineral Water Company in the World.
SCHWEPPES Mineral
Waters have held the
Royal Warrant contin-
uously since 1834.
The Commonwealth Govt, will shortly consider
the matter of silver coinage. At present we do the
unprofitable business of minting J. Bull’s gold for him
while he does the profitable business of minting our silver
for us. As we have been doing the unprofitable business
for a long while, it wouldn’t be more than a fair thing if
now he let us do the profitable business for him, as well
as for ourselves. Just now, however, it is only proposed
to issue enough of the new coins for Australian
requirements ; and that, though still profitable, would
not be so gaudy as it looks. For it does look
gaudy. Of standard silver lib. troy, or of fine silver
11.10 z., makes 66 shillings ; and the market value of that
much silver is now about 225. This shows a profit of 200
per cent., which is even better than running a good
brewery. The Australian demand is, however, limited to
an average of about £llO,OOO worth of silver coin a year
of which about £20,000 worth is to replace worn-out
coins. Assuming that the latter have got so thin by
being so frequently dropped into the collection-plate that
only a third of them remains, it would still leave a market
for £30,000 worth of silver a year. The other £BO,OOO
ought to do something beyond cover expenses. Most
likely, as the Australian Parliament’s committee last year
reported, there would be £30,000 profit
• • • •
Shaker : It has been pretty conclusively
proved that, among all the politicians of the Common-
wealth, not one is available for the position of State
Treasurer who can make ends meet. What’s the matter
with giving a N.Q. fossicker a trial at the billet ? Living
in districts where prices are ruinously high, he (at least
90 per cent, of him) does not average more than 15s a
week, out of which he has to pay for his tucker, provide
tent, tools, horses, and gear, pay for a miner’s ri«-ht—
and now the poll-tax ! He not only does it, but manages
to get picturesquely drunk occasionally as well. A man
who can do that ought to be worth'a trial, where the
getting of a financial quart out of a monetary pint-pot is
the thing wanted....L.O.C. : Can’t print that these 23
people have committed perjury, &c., on your bare asser-
tion. Nevertheless cordially agree that there is safety
in the Savings Bank.... A.G. : The S. Aus. Farmers’ Co
appears to have made a loss of £2749 for the year and
not £1749, as stated in its report. The extra thousand
is represented by a swift and silent (so far as the report
is concerned) transfer from the reserve fund.
* * * ’•
Perkins and Co., Limited, brewers, of Brisbane
and Toowoomba (Queensland) :
Dividends and Added to Re-
Profits. Div. Duty. Reserves, serves.
Feb. 1894.. £12,086 5 p.c. = £3,062 £9,024 £9,024
„ 1895.. 10,035 10 „ 6,125 3,910 12 934
„ 1896.. 11,784 10 „ 6,125 5,659 18A93
„ 1897.. 12,945 10 6,125 6,820 25,413
„ 1898.. 15,067 13J , 4,167 6,900 32,313
„ 1899.. 19,456 13| „ 8,167 11,289 43,602
„ 1900.. 24,404 15 5-6 ~ 9,698 14,706 58,308
„ 1901.. 26,165 163 „ 10,208 15,957 74,265
„ 1902.. 28,496 lsj „ 11,229 17,267 91,532
„ 1903.. 26,565 23J „ 14,292 12,273 103,805
On the spur of the moment the writer wishes he had been
born a brewer, but is sobered by reflecting that Perkins
and co. had a bad time once, while a good many other
brewing co.’s have had a bad time nearly all their lives.
The dividend is the largest in the co.’s existence, but as
the profits are less than they were last year the natural
result of this is that the addition made to the reserve is
the smallest since 1899. The Daid-up capital is £5B 333
so profits represent 45J per cent.
* * • *
At his Auldana vineyard (S.A.) Senator’Siah
Symon, K.C., has this season made between 50,000 and
55,000 gallons of wine.
• • . ,
Just because N.S.W. municipal law, so far a 3
the rating of mines is concerned, may mean any of 13
different things, it has always been a “ soft snap” for the
lawyers. After about 20 decisions had been given it was
thought, though, that the law had been made complete as
to coal-mines ; but the lawyers are safe yet—a new point
has now arisen as to the right basis for taxing a mine
whose workings are partly outside the claimant munici-
pality.
• * • •
The Queensland National Bank has put up
the rate for Queensland deposts to 4 and 4J per cent, for
money fixed for one and two year periods respectively.
The usual rate offered for 12 months’ deposits in Aus-
tralia was.s per cent in 1892 ; 4J in 1893 (the bank failure
year); 4J in 1894 ; 3J in 1895 ; and a humble 3 per cent
since then.
• * * •
Burra wong orchard (Molong, N.S.W.), one of
the largest, if not the largest, in the State, has been
closed down, with its cannery, in consequence of the
unsuitable climate, heavy freightage to market, and the
ever-increasing number of fruit-tree pests. The orchard
covered fully 800 acres. Nearly £50,000 had been ex-
pended on this “great natural industry” up to the time
or its abandonment. If the same amount had been put
into an iron fourtdry it might have paid better. Cater-
pillars don't eat iron.
• * * *
About the best scheme ever tried in Australia
t/O save a hospital from the eternal necessity of showing 1
its Lazarus sores, in order to win crumbs enough to keep
life in its body, is crumbling away at the Broken Hill
mines. With the concurrence of the work-people the
employers agreed to make a very small deduction from
all wages paid (it was shown that £d. in the £ would do)
themselves subsidising the total £ for £, while in the
ordinary course the State subsidised the gross total £ for
£. The arrangement was a brilliant success, simply be-
cause for years the hospital and its committee didn’t have
to cadge ; it was a greater success still because the
battered miner did not have his wounds aggravated
by the thought that Charity was dressing them and
feeding him. Squeezed by the fall in the price of lead
and silver, the big mining cos., however, jumped at the
chance to cut down their contribution ; and now, as
•j 1 ' e J’ I don’t guarantee a regular subsidy, the committee
has had to appeal to the ill-paid men to make up the
shortage, and the greasy old hat is passing round in the
bad old way.
* * * *
, As seemed likely, lead has had a pretty bad
fail-back, and there isn’t so much enthusiasm about
getting the smaller Broken Hill mines to work as there
was. Only the British has been set going in a regular
way ; here 450 men have been put on. Most of the other
£?■ 8 are growling over the shortage of good miners,
■they hoped to draw a crowd from Moonta, but the under-
taking of the Moonta directors to put lip wages 10 per
cent, while copper keeps over £6O has stopped that. The
neld s interest has for a week or two been mopped up
by the commission on mine accidents; in the last few
°f the sittings the atmosphere was sultry
fh° U n allow of the South management accusing
tne Central management of “absolute untruths.”
n," 6 n row * 8 ma i n, y over an arrangement which
says it made with the South to leave a
P lllar on ea °b side of the boundary. The South
says the matter was mentioned to its former manager,
out that the directors would not listen to it; to leave
blocks of ore like this would ruin a co. But if not to
eave such pillars means the wholesale manufacture of
miners’ widows, the risk of ruining a co. or two will have
to be taken.
* * * *
Cobar Great Western people were within an
ace of losing their valuable property. It was “ reported,”
bad no valid excuse to offer for non-working,
tne Mines Department could have done nothing other
than forfeit the leases. At this critical juncture “ Jack”
u-S. eon caine t* 3 the rescue with a tribute proposal,
which was eagerly accepted. The conditions make him
Poetically the owner of the mine for three years, but
that does not trouble the nominal owners, as it gives
them another chance to show their patience in waiting
for a five-figure buyer. Common sense and practical
considerations point to the advisableness of an amalga-
mation with the Occidental.
* • • •
The workmen employed in the mines at Oobar
(N.S.W.), have made a demand for an increase of 3s. per
day all round—men and boys alike. The owners have
to meet the workers in conference ; failing
this the Arbitration Court will be appealed to. The pro-
posed increase means advances ranging from 20 to 40 per
cent., averaging about 30 per cent., and in the case of the
Dig copper mine would represent nearly £40,000 a year.
• * • *
, Queen h* ee mine, about 12 miles out of Cobar
(N.S.W.), since September last has shipped 161 tons of
ore, which has returned £1173 net, or £7 ss. per ton.
The parcels have varied from 20 to 37 per cent, copper,
the average being 28 per cent. Lode, so far as proved, is
small. Show owned by a local syndicate.
* * * *
Myall’s United mine (N.S.W.), which, a few
months since, gave promise of becoming successful, has
again “turned dog” on the patient shareholders. The rich
stone met with in bottom level was merely a patch. On
the strength of it extensive additions and alterations were
made to the plant. Recent returns have been so poor
that crushing has been discontinued, and over 200 miners
have been thrown out of employment.
* * • «
1 E.H.M.” writes : Re selling tin. A rough
and ready way I used when selling the oxide was to
deduct £l5 per ton from the market value of metallic
tin, and divide the result by 100; this would give the
value of the oxide per unit, tin oxide being sold by the
unit and not by the ton. Thus, with metallic tin at £l4O,
/tlf Pr* ce P er un it is about £1 55., and 70 per cent, oxide
(the best stream tin) would give £B7 per ton to the
scratcher. Bischoff charges £4 per ton to smelt your tin,
t n? u your own market and take the risk of
a fall in price. The percentage your inquirer mentions
is nonsense, as tin oxide can only contain 78-67 per cent,
of tin. The usual percentage is 70 percent., though I
have sold it on the East Coast of Tasmania up to 73 and
even 74 per cent.
• * * *
Plant’s Day Dawn Deep mines—a 2000 odd feet
prospecting show—on the fringe of Charters Towers,
after trying to float on a gorgeous paid-up share scale,
has secured five months exemption. Probable destination
of proposition is London.
* • * •
Settlement of long-standing deadlock between
Mills United and Day Dawn Freehold Mines, Charters
Towers, has at last been arranged. Mills United co. was
the owner of the notorious “Grid-Iron” lease which
embraced the streets running across the Day Dawn Free-
hold claim. It wouldn’t work the streets itself, wouldn’t
let the Freehold company work them nor drive through
them. Now it has had to surrender, though previously
it refused advantageous offers. Reason : a Way-Leaves
Bill passed in session of 1901. It didn’t altogether compel
Mills to surrender, but would have been amended to that
end. Hence the giving way.
• * * *
One Caldwell has been pulling the legs of the
Cloncurry people (N.Q.), or else he has been badly misre-
presented. He is supposed to have applied for 3000 acres
of copper-bearing country, and, according to the “inter-
viewer” the “Syndicate primarily interested in the
scheme is the Rhodesia Co., of South Africa, of which Mr.
Caldwell himself, is a partner, and which has acquired
world-wide fame in association with such names as the
late Cecil Rhodes, Wernher, Beit and Co., J. B. Robinson,
and others. The capital of the co. is £200,000,000.” This
co., in Caldwell’s statement, is interested in copper mines
in Germany, Spain, and America, the profits of which in
1897 were £13,000,000. “All these mines are raising ore
from about 4000 ft. The mines require no shafts—simply
quarrying.” Quarrying to 4000 ft. ! Why doesn’t Caldwell
go to Broken Hill and show mining men there howto do it?
Or, better/undertake to do ithimself! Success would mean
more millions to him than Cloncurry is likely to produce.
“ Montana mines, Lake Superior, between 1893-9 paid over
£11,000,000 in divs.” The shifting of Montana mines to
Lake Superior is even a more interesting performance
than quarrying to i' Oft. It was with quite a nonchalant
air that Caldwell declared “we propose to spend at least
£4,000,000 at Cloncurry if we can obtain a concession for
a railway from Winton—this would be apart from the cost
of the line.” He has a unique proposal to submit to the
Queensland Government. “We are ready to build the
line as a speculation if the Government will give us fair
interest on our money without any concessions at all.”
Could anything be more magnanimous? Give us fair in-
terest on the cost of building a railway for our own
especial use, and we will not ask for the whole of
Queensland as a concession. Caldwell further talked
glibly about a combination of “my company” with
the Amalgamated Copper Trust of America. The
two co.’s would have a capital of £400,000,000, and
would be in a position to control the copper markets of
the world. Should the amalgamation be effected “we
will close down all the lower grade mines. The Americans
are anxious to secure Australian shows; they have a
representative at present in N.S.W.—General'Mackie.”
“ Our co. can turn out 40 per cent, ore from the Cloncurry
district to supply the whole world.’’ Is it any wonder that
the local paper had to hold over its report of a Sunday-
school picnic and omit the impounding notices to make
room for this “ valuable matter.” Quotations given are a
fair sample culled from a page “ interview.” The question
which has to be decided is whether Caldwell is a consum-
mate ass or an accomplished humorist. Tub Bulletin
votes for the last.
• * * •
According to a recent count Australia has still
684,000 cattle left in its North Gulf country. Rocklands
(Q ), running 35,000 head, claims more than any other
station; close up, on the 30,000 mark, are Lorraine,
Kamilaroi, Oanobie, Brunette (N.T.), Fort Constantine,
and Dalgonally.
* * * *
The old order of mining changes fast. Kal-
goorlie, whose methods are more up to date than those
of any other Australian goldfield, has fewer of the old
stamp-heads at work than either Coolgardie or Mur-
chison. Once, and not many years ago, gold extraction
meant the battery and nothing else ; now Westralia has,
besides batteries, 163 other mills, 1158 leaching vats, and
136 filter presses.
• • • •
W.A. mines during March distributed divs. of
£88,250 ; Great Boulder with £43,750, Oroya-Brown Hill
£40,500. Princess Royal £4OOO, being responsible for the
lot. Total divs. for first quarter of the year, £253,487,
paid by nine co.’s.
* * * *
Hannan’s Main Reef (W.A.), after undergoing
three reconstructions, and wasting eight years’ toil and
£30,000 cash on its wild-cat property at Kalgoorlie, has
flitted to Niagara. The new property, purchased from
Ryan Bros., for £3500 cash and 20,000 shares, consisted
originally of 36 acres, but 12 acres more have since been
acquired by pegging. A Fraser and Chalmers 10-head
battery, with power for 20-head, has been secured in ex-
change for 20,000 shares, so vendors of battery apparently
have faith in the show, or in the market. The property
is traversed by a north and south reef, on which several
shafts have been sunk, the deepest being 150 ft.
At the 140 ft. level the reef has been opened
up for a distance of 400 ft., and averages 4ft. wide
for this length. Prom this drive 300 tons were
mined, and 119 tons, taken as it came, yielded 115 oz.
at the Government battery. Taking this crushing as a
criterion, the reef averages loz. per ton, and theco. looks
as if it had got hold of a good thing. So far the mine is
only equipped with a whip pole and windlasses, and has
no water supply, so that the need for a battery at the
present stage is not very apparent. A winze sunk from
the 140 ft. level proves the water zone to be at 170 ft. 00.
has only £BOOO cash in hand, after calling up all available
capital. This won’t go very far in providing the mine
with a main shaft, and full surface equipment. Chair-
man, however, cheerfully buoys up shareholders’ drooping
spirits by informing them that the reserves opened up
are worth £40,000, of which half will be profit.
For the sake of the long-suffering shareholders it is to be
hoped that this sanguineness will not get a rude shock.
In spite of the experience obtained, directors of gold-
mines seem unable to grasp the fact that mining without
ample working capital is doomed to failure, or, at best,
can only achieve a minimum of success, no matter how
good the mine may be. This property, together with the
Pine Lodge, recently mentioned here, was originally
owned by the Challenge Gold Estates Prop., and was
abandoned as worthless, in 1900, after surface scratching.
Both properties were then acquired by prospectors, and
certainly look good enough for anything, if properly
handled.
* * * *
The Kookynie (W.A.), a recent Ballarat flota-
tion, has commenced operations on a promising show of
24 acres situated at Kookynie. There is a north and
south reef on the property, which has been opened up to
water level by working miners. Co. is in 25,000 shares of
10s. each, of which 5000 fully paid up were given in full
payment for the property. This proves the bona tides of
the vendors, as the shares are worthless if the property
is. Mine is in charge of F. W. Benness, who was long in
control of that defunct wild cat, the Brown Hill Central.
Property was acquired on Mr. Benness’ recommendation,
and, as he has voluntarily accepted the management,
and must be heartily sick of wild cats, he is evidently
satisfied with the prospects.
* * * *
Great Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) continues
to open out very consistently, and both the Lake View
and Perseverance lodes maintain their width and value
down to the seventh level. Shaft is now on its way to
the 1100 ft., or eighth level. So far as one can ascertain
the present output can be maintained for a long time
to come. Manager Nichols appears to enjoy a sinecure
billet, as no sooner had he returned from a six months’
trip round the world than, after a casual glance at the
mine, he cleared off to London to attend the annual
meeting. As he has the best staff on the field the mine is
not prejudiced by his absence. The splitting of the £1
shares into eight of 2s. fid. each appears to have been
favorably received by the market, as the first quote of
the splits came through as 325. 6d., equivalent to £l3 on
the old stock. 00. now consists of 1,500,000 shares of
2s. 6d. each nominal, of which 100,000 are held in reserve
for future contingencies. This places co. in a very strong
financial position, and also makes the shares much more
negotiable. Oo.’s next div. of Is. 3d. per new share is due
about April 10. The old heap of oxidised tailings is fast
disappearing and will shortly be exhausted. The tailings
from the sulphide plant are practically worthless, and are
being conveyed direct, overhead by electric tramway, to
the Great Boulder South lease.
* * • •
Parker’s Range, Southern Cross (W.A.), which
was hurriedly deserted on the announcement of the
discovery of Coolgardie, is again attracting the attention
of prospectors and speculators. The deepest point
worked in the old days was only 100 ft., yet about
100,000 oz. of gold were won. A large number of gold-
bearing lodes, reefs and quartz leaders outcrop over a
distance of 14 miles. A large block of leases has recently
been pegged, among others 72 acres on account of Frank
Gardner. As mining facilities have been greatly im-
proved since the mines were last worked, there seems
little doubt that the field will shortly add materially to
the State’s gold output. Fifteen head of stamps are at
work, and more are on order. Recent crushings have
ranged from |oz. to 3oz. per ton for fairly large parcels.
Government is so satisfied with the outlook that it is
making the old dam, capable of holding B,ooo,ooogals. f
watertight, and this will ensure an ample supply of water
for the field.
* * * *
Hainault, Kalgoorlie (W.A.) is now running 20
head of stamps, and, in future, the monthly output will
be increased to about 2000 tons of lOdwt. ore. With the
10-head mill running, the total local costs have averaged
265. a ton, and with the increased output it is anticipated
that the same figure will cover all costs both locally and
in London. This will leave a profit of about 10s. per ton,
or, say, £lOOO monthly, or sufficient to pay 12 per cent,
on the issued capital, which should raise the shares to
par. Shareholders have had a long and weary wait of
eight years, but the end of the long lane appears to be at
last in sight. Work is now in progress in all the seven
levels opened up, even in the three upper levels, on which
the mine was formerly classified as a wild-cat.
• * * •
From the time the first of them began to talk,
down to the end of Feb. the Westralian State batteries
have saved 141,2400 z. gold (worth £526,284) from 113,200
tons; and the three cyanide plants, lately started, have
added £32,542 to this output. The whole 14 works now
in operation showed a nominal profit of £350 for March.
* * • *
State mining-engineer Montgomery’s report on
the remote Phillips River (W.A.) field is available. It
doesn’t glow. “ There are only four mines that have yet
passed the preliminary prospecting stage, and in three of
these there is an urgent want of further development to
put them in a position to maintain their output.” Most
of the properties, though “ very likely and promising
prospects,” are still “ speculative ventures” ; and as the
public will not come in on these terms, all that can be
done is to help the prospectors to cheaply realise on the
ore which they can raise with their own primitive appli-
ances while they are further opening up their shows. If,
however, the present excessive costs cannot somehow be
reduced, all that will be possible will be to pick out the
eyes of the field and then abandon it.
* *
Fraser’s South Extended, Southern Cross
(W. A.), is, after a dreary wait of seven years, at last being
properly handled. Joseph Bridge, vendor of the Windsor
Consols, who was badly left with his vendor’s shares (they
were intentionally rendered unnegotiable on ’Change,
because no application for a quote was made) is now
consulting-engineer to the co. Bridge has advocated a
vigorous policy of development, and proposes to double the
battery. The pay chute has already been opened up for
a length of fully 200 ft., and averages quite half-an-ounce.
In the past mere surface scratchings and pig-rootings were
indulged in, and the mine is practically a virgin property
in the sulphide zone. If properly handled, co. should be
a steady producer and div.-payer on a moderate scale-
say of about 10 per cent.
* * * *
Queen Margaret (W.A.) has tired of its more or
less fruitless efforts in that State. The Bulong property
is looking so poor that all hands have been retrenched,
and the mine is now a scene of desolation. The South
Gippsland property has totally belied expectations, and
the option which expires on the 11th instant will probably
not be exercised.
» * * *
London papers have been printing columns
about “ the banket reefs of Westralia,” all owned, ifr
seems, by Morgan’s British Exploration of Australia, Ltd.,
the modest J. Bull concern with a share capital of half-a-
million. The banket reefs are, the reports say, 70 miles
south-east of Marble Bar—nine of them, parallel, and
from 2ft. to 7ft. thick. Only one, the office gives out,
has been tested to any extent; it' runs 9dwt. Half-a-
million tons of this grade stone have been exposed, which
can be made to. pay at sdwt. To explain why it has
made so little stir it is said that there have been water
difficulties, but it is added that these have now been got
over.
• * * •
Still another Murchison (W.A.) reconstruction.
in London. Judging from the experience of the Fingall
that its own reefs “ will undoubtedly prove to be richer
in depth,” the Cue Exploration increases its capital to
£lOO,OOO by creating 25,000 new shares.
* * * *
Geologist Brown’s report on Weinnecke’s Re-
ward mine, Artlunga, confirms the condemnation by
Paul Northey and Captain Pleitner. Mr. Brown says
that the reefs are barren, and what gold there is is con-
tained in ironstone veins. These are showing in decom-
posed gneiss, and he expresses a doubt as to their
“ living ”in the unaltered rock. What has become of
Chewings’ mountain, where the gold was so thick that
there was an insufficiency of mullock to cover it? This
fiasco is about the nastiest knock that Adelaide has ever
had.
• • • •
A strangely casual mining venture is now being
carried on in the vicinity of Drysdale (Vic.), where, some
years ago, a family of spiritualists, in consequence of a
vision by one of its members, saw gold in a field on the
sea shore. The father, two sons, and a son-in-law have
since been mining in the intervals of onion-growing and
farming, and have now reached a great depth in blue sea
sand without success. But the spirits still urge them to
persevere, and they continue to dig with an enthusiasm
worthy of better direction.
• • • *
The Broken Hill Proprietary mine appears to
have gone back to the three-shift system as a regular thing.
It is, whichever way you look at it, a change for the worse.
The night shift (midnight till 8 a.m.) is, and probably
always will be, an abomination. A stuffy stope or drive,
in which work goes on day and night, never has a chance
to get really free from powder-fumes ; and when, on top
of that, a man has to worX by night and attempt to sleep
in a tin humpy by day, a Barrier summer has for him
most of the terrors of Hades.
* • • •
There is joy in North Queensland because the
revolutionary row at Monte Video has been settled.
Monte Video, the gate of communication between the
Transpacific co’s dredge and the outer world, is open
again. Latest clean-ups are 105 oz. for six days’ work
and 550 z. for four days. If any belligerent Don Miguel
del Antimacassar bags that gold on its way to the bank,
there will be a record outburst of profanity from the
Far Far North, which, in spite of Leonta, can still swear.
“ Wanderer ” writes :
I have struck Natal. There are restrictions on the
entry of “free Indians” here, but thousands come in
under indentures to work for five years, after which they
are “ free.” The result is that in the country towns the
small tradesmen, formerly Europeans, have been dis-
placed by Arabs, and even in the cities of Durban and
Maritzburg the same process is going on. The land, too,
is passing so rapidly into Asiatic hands that it is esti-
mated that within ten years they will own two-thirds of
the colony. In Durban, a few weeks ago, an important
sale of city lots was held, and Asiatics bought everything,
bidding up to £60,000 in one instance. When in Durban
I saw an eviction of a white family by the Asiatic land-
lord, who owned a large number of villas. It is generally
recognised that there is now no hope of saving Natal
from passing into '"the hands of the Asiatics. Kruger
would have_ wholly saved the Transvaal from the coolies
by prohibition, but the British Government demanded
their admission as British subjects. Still Kruger limited
the curse by not allowing Asiatics to trade or live outside
locations at Johannesburg, but now they have the run of
the whole country, and the small tradesmen are praying :
Save us from the fate of Natal.” Any Australian poli-
tician who attempts to open the door to the Asiatic
should be sent to Natal for a month or hanged. The
Asiatics in the Commonwealth should be given eight
months’ notice to quit, as was done in the Orange Free
State.


Mi
David Jones & Co,
“ORIENT” BOOTS.
Special Purchase of American-
made Boots, Black or Brown
Vici Kid,
Price
21 1-
By Post
22/-
George & Barrack Sts.
1
m?
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Society
[?]
[?]
Happenings in a Melbourne suburban
street on a recent Wednesday afternoon : Wed-
ding in one house ; death a couple of doors higher
up ; bailiffs in a third domicile ; woman committed
for trial on a serious charge from a fourth resi-
dence ; warrant out for the arrest of a defaulter
who used to live in No. 5, but is now missing;
while in No, 6 house a husband was engaged in
larruping his wife for wasting time in looking
at the wedding, and neglecting to have his even-
RETIRING.
SOUTH SEA MISSIONARY (to his successor): “ Farewell, dear brother; with this and the Hoard's
blessing I expect to see you again.”
ing meal up to time. Wife got away with golden
hair hanging down her back in time to toss a very
old shoe after the bride. Less than twenty houses
in the block referred to ! There’s life for you !
* * • *
“P.X.”: At Newcastle (N.S.W.), the
other day, six people guessed within a pound of
the prize bullock’s weight—79llb. Sometimes,
no doubt, these competitions are a fraud, and
sometimes mere luck guides the winner. But it
can’t always be like that, for it’s some men’s
bread-and-butter to be able to tell to a thin steak
or a chop how much a live beast will pan out.
Same months ago the head of a firm, which
handles the meat for at least 10,000 people, died
suddenly, and it fell to another man to carry on
the concern—another man who knew nothing of
buying, wherein lies the secret, or most of the
secret, of successful butchering. Day by day,
therefore, he has run his eye over every beast m
the yard, “ guessed ” its weight and noted it, and
later on compared the guess with the actual cold-
meat result. After over four months of this he
is now rarely more than a sausage or so out, and
he has almost got confidence enough in his judg-
ment to buy.
A lady named Smith wrote to the Mel
bourne Age expressing her gratitude for its
recent article on the Barmaid question, which
represented the average Hebe as a decoy who
lures young men into drunkenness and “fre-
quently goes down with her prey.” Also the
Smith lady stated that there are more female
licensees than men in the Melbourne district, and
she suggested that the police allow undue latitude
to the Sex. Evidently the lady named Smith has
given a lot of earnest thought to the ‘ ‘ decoy evil ”
from the point of view of an outsider knowing
only a little about it. She has yet to learn that
the majority of Hebe’s regular visitors are
married men suffering from a surfeit of the female
society they get at home, which is to say they are
not very young. The average hopeful young man
is decoyed away from the bar and preserved from
whisky dangers by some sweet illusion or other,
and it is not until his illusion has married him
that he takes to drink, if he ever takes to it at all.
The number of men dragged down by barmaids is
a mere trifle compared with the number of women
in poorer districts who become regular customers
at the pub because there is another woman behind
the bar to keep them in countenance. We hear
too much about the Hebe who attracts men and
incites them to take an extra lemon-squash. Let
us now deplore the fact that she practically en-
courages her own sex to come and get partially
drunk on the premises.
* * • •
A love story, as told by the male criminal :
I “ mashed ” her at a moonlight concert on the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground, and found that we had both come
from the same suburb. That was a coincidence, and
made conversation easy. She was rich and lived with
her widowed mother, she said. I was wealthy, and
manager of a bank, I said. We often met after, and once
my watch was “ spouted ” to provide a night at the
theatre. I was never allowed to see her right home,
always left her at the street corner. Mother might be
waiting at the front, she said. Some nights she couldn’t
come out. Mother didn’t like her going about much, she
said. Some nights I couldn’t come out. Had to stay
late at the bank, I said. One day my boss said, “ Weigh
out two cwt. of coal and take it to Mrs. Smith’s—the
second double-fronted house on the right, in Charles-st.”
I did. Was told at the house that the servant would
show me where to put it. The servant came out. It was
She 1 We never spoke then, nor since.
Thursday Island has just had its annual
count of heads, and the mixture is found to be
rather worse than usual. Of 1515 people, 736 are
Europeans ; the rest, running down the scale, are
Japanese, Chinese, Filippinos, Malays, Polynesians
and Cingalese. There are also 105 who are nothing
in particular; this class is increasing more rapidly
than any other. When a young man’s four grand-
parents are respectively Malay, Filipino, Anglo-
Chow and the son of a half-bred Kanaka girl by
marriage with a Dago seaman from Greece, and
the young man himself is mashing a mulatto girl
whose father was Portuguese, the despairing
census official puts him down as “unspecified.”
• * * *
The collapse of the Jingo madness in
Maoriland is well illustrated by the tameness
which characterises the attempt to boom the
newly-formed guild to look after the graves of the
Maorilanders who died in South Africa, and keep
the weeds and the goats off them. The average
citizen is woefully heedless about the whole busi-
ness, and it bids fair to be left solely in the hands
D f a few nice kind ladies and a bishop or two,
with a stodgy city councillor thrown in here and
there.
“8.J.”: Our but-
cher’s assistant is young
and verdant, and has,
besides, quite an amazing
capacity for explaining
affairs in detail. Hence,
the breakfast meat not
being forthcoming t’other
Monday, he, in answer
to the housekeeper’s
“ wherefore,” explained
that, the ice-house having
broken down the swelter-
ing day before, £4 worth
of meat had gone rotten.
“ What! absolutely rot-
ten?” “Well, yer
oughter seen it yer
oughter smelt it! ”he said,
with a grin. “But it
ain’t quite a dead loss,
yer know ; when the meat
goes rotten like that, the
doss always sends it down
to the meat-preserving
works, and gets tuppence
a pound for it.” Fur-
ther inquiries elicited the
interesting fact that it
would have to be pretty
far-gone meat indeed that
wouldn’t be accepted at
the said “works”; also,
his master “had a con-
tract to supply the meat-
preserving works with
‘ scraps ’ at tuppence a
pound.”
• • «
There is a wide-
spread and strongly-sup-
norted movement among
•• Anglicans ” in Aus-
tralia to abolish the title of “ Church of England ”
and substitute “Episcopal Church of Australia,”
or some such name. A “broad ’’ episcopal church
with a broad name, instead of the present narrow
and ridiculously local one, would probably attract
many adherents. “The Church of England’’ is
an absurd ecclesiastical title—especially in these
days when it is mostly run by Scotchmen.
* * • *
The course of true love in Australia em-
bodies, among others, three notable possibilities.
First, that the young man will shoot the girl
before marriage ; second, that he will marry her
and leave her at the church door, after which she
will take in washing for three years while quali-
fying for a divorce ; third, that he will marry her
and take her to live in a back street, where, in
after years, he will slay her with an axe in a moment
of excitement arising through inability to pay the
rent. Australia has seen several examples of
tragedies I. and 111. within the last few weeks
(tragedy 11. is always with us). The young man
Dillon, who started to thin out Mary Jones
and her family at Miller’s Point, Sydney,
last week, was an ordinary sample of
tragedy I. According to his own statement,
he heard that Mary Jones was going to
meet another man, and thereafter the trouble
commenced. The Australian young man may
not take marriage seriously, but he takes love
very seriously, and even a rumor of the possible
defection of Mary Jones is apt to lead to hysteria
and all manner of woe. As a rule he buys a
cheap revolver at the ironmonger’s, and it won’t
go off when he points it at his true love, so he hits
Mary Jones on the head with the butt end, and
then the erratic weapon recovers its senses just in
time to enable him to fire promiscuously at the
assembling public, Mary having got away by this
time, screaming, but not much damaged. Then
in most cases he misses the public, and the police
gather him in. This isn’t always the way of
things—sometimes he hits the public by accident;
but in a general way the cheap young man with
the cheap gun makes far more row than real
damage.
One of Melb. Argus correspondents, in
the discussion on population and preventives,
crowded so much hard truth into his letter that it
was a wonder the paper published it. Said he :
I have a family of nine, and an income of £2 10s. a
week, and I tell you candidly that if I could live my time
over again I would not get married at all. What pleasure
has my wife or I? We have nothing but the bare neces-
saries of life, and our clothing is scant. . . . My neighbor,
Blank, is a laborer, and I am a carpenter in full work.
Yet he and his wife have more comforts than me—be has
only one little girl. ... lam not saving a penny. The
country will have to keep me when I am no longer able
to work, and so it should, for the country alone will reap
the benefits of my large family.
PRACTICAL MNEMONICS.
BAD OLD HUBBY : “ You'll remember me when Pm gone, won’t you?”
FINE YOUNG WIFE: “ Yes, dear, every time there is a—a—a—hot
wind! ”
The military trouble in S.A. arises from
the fact that when the Crow-eater contingents
were at the Federal shivoos in Sydney and Mel-
bourne in 1901, they learned that the militia in
those cities received more money than they did
for the same work, parade and frill. They have
been brooding over the twopence or so ever since,
and until the pay is levelled up, it is not likely
that amateur lighting men will be plentiful in
S.A. again. The Australian Parliament hasn’t
had time to regulate military matters yet, and
the old Crow-eater pay was low simply because
the Crow-eater land is poor. It was hoped that
patriotism would more than counterbalance the
twopence; but it didn’t.
• * • *
This is the story of a “ lady-help ’’ who
had been in a Christian family :
My employer was a clergyman. His family was large
and my wages were low. It was a case of working all day
and half the night and putting up with the poorest of
food. Still I was better off than the actual “servant."
She was a small scrap of humanity who, for various
reasons, was glad to be paid tenpence per week and pro-
vided with food and clothing of a sort, in return for 16
hours’ work a day. But we were expected to find
consolation in the extreme piety which permeated
the household, from its clerical head and his wife
down to the youngest of the numerous children.
Being only human, I occasionally lost my temper,
under the treble trial of too much work, too much snuffle
and too little food. On such occasions I was not
threatened with dismissal, but the family was solemnly
gathered together and I was prayed for. The clergyman
would beseech the Lord to look down upon my manifold
imperfections, to forget that they continued in spite of
the blessed comfort I enjoyed of association with a truly
Christian family, and to pardon me and to grant me
grace to more gratefully recognise the great kindness of
my mistress. Then they would sing a hymn, “ A little
talk with Jesus makes it right again,” and I was ex-
pected to go back to my work with a chastened spirit
and renewed strength. When I “ gave notice,” the
family prayed most earnestly for a change of my heart.
But the efficacy of prayer was not proved, for I left. I’m
now with godless people ; but there is generally roast
meat for dinner, and pudding, and the work is light.
* ■» • »
Salvarmy statistics are biting commentaries
on the alleged “charity ” of that sweating organi-
sation. The total nightly accommodation in all
NO USE FOB IT.
WITNESS: “ He’s a dirthy , mane little blackleg,
yer Honor; a low, dam”-
J.P.: “ Silence, witness!”
WITNESS : “ Well, yer Honor, it's Gawd's truth.”
J.P.: “ Doesn't matter; we want none of it here."
the Army’s Australasian “ homes ” (if full) is 3000
persons. Thus the public are keeping about
15,000 “army officers ” to supervise its doles to
probably less than an average of 1500 people, len
strong men and women kept to give one poor wait
a ha’porth of cadged bread !
I KISSED THE COOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I kissed the cook —ah me, she was divine !
Cheeks peachy, dark brown eyes, lips red as wine ;
Long apron, with a how,
A cap as white as snow—
By far too tempting, so I kissed the cook.
I kissed the cook—poor helpless little lass ;
The chance was good, I could not let it pass.
Her hands were in the dough ;
She dare not spoil, you know,
My Sunday suit, and so I kissed the cook.
I kissed the cook, with lingering kiss and long,
And even now I hardly think ’twas wrong,
For, just ’tween you and me,
The cook’s my wife, is she,
So I’d a right, you see, to kiss the cook.
BRISBANB.
E. WEST.
MIDSUMMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The torches of the bee-balm light,
The gullies dense with briar ;
The yellow primrose streaks the night
With its illusive fire ;
But, ah ! the rose of queenly head
Lies drooped and dead!
The beds within the garden gleam
With red nasturtium gold ;
The poppy-cups invite to dream
The rainbow dreams of old ;
Yet, sweet, there is a shadowy bliss
We two do miss 1
Still, tho’ our hearts may not forget
How suns once sang and shone,
Let us have done with vain regret,
And still we’ll journey on,
Treading the harvest-colored land
Hand clasped in hand !
MAGGIE SULLIYAN.


66
D.C
L
WHISKY
.....
Ud s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—•
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-streeb
or King street, Sydney.*
SILVER
STAR
STARCH
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
The despised women of Victoria are help-
lessly frantic about the eighth rebuff which the
House of Rich Landlords has given to their
suffrage claims. It was seriously proposed that
they should demonstrate in the gallery of the
House upon the report on the bi cameral confer-
ence , but they decided not to lower themselves
to the level of the old women inside the bar. The
latest idea is to copy some dissenting sects in
England and refuse to pay taxes ordered by a body
in which they have no representation. Yet there
is a far better remedy than that, and a more
accessible one. A really strong Union of Female
Workers could do the whole business, and the
homely essential Biddy could wipe the floor with
the House of Landlords and all its gauds. The
Union could withdraw all the domestics from the
houseof every M.L.C. who voted against Woman’s
Suffrage and keep them out till the Bill was passed.
It could withdraw alldomestichelpfrom every hotei
or boarding-house that took him in ; call out the
cook and other assistance from the house that
entertained him ; order the waitress not to see
him at the restaurant table ; get the affiliated
laundress to make his shirts limp, and the
affiliated barmaid to look the other way when lie
wanted a drink, and the charwoman to leave his
palatial home unswept and unwashed. Next
session the ukase should go forth that Woman’s
Suffrage and One-Woman-One-Vote must become
law before 1 p.m. on a certain day. And on that
day, at that hour exactly, if the measure wasn’t
passed, the M.L.C. ’s waiting-maid would drop the
lunch upside down on the carpet, his cook would
capsize the pot on the floor, his nurse-girl would
hand in his infant at the police-station as a lost
child, his parlor-maid would spill the valuable
statuette she was dusting, and female aid and
comfort would leave him in one act.
* * * ,
The movement started 12 months ago,
under enormously influential patronage, to raise a
fund with which to found 10 girls’ scholarships to
be allotted at Sydney University annual matricu-
lation examination—the scholarships being in-
tended to perpetuate and keep green the memory
of the late Queen Victoria—seems to have shared
the fate of other projects started with that object.
Judged on a cash basis the interest taken in the
departed monarch is a very small quantity—almost
**■ vanished quantity.
PIE-BALD AUSTRALIA.
CONSTABLE ( collecting names for the Common-
wealth electoral rolls): “Phwat is your
husband be p’fession?”
LADY OF THE HOUSE: “An artist—a black and
white man.”
CONSTABLE: “A black and white man! Luk at
that, now! And you a decent respectable
woman. You'd much better be married to a
full-blown naggur!”
jlhe term “ lady ” in Australia is so indis-
criminately used as to be in danger of being con
sidered, as in America, rather one of opprobrium
than of respect. Therefore this is worth notice :
The school authorities of Chicago have decided that all
female school-teachers are in future to be officially referred
to as “ women,” instead of “ ladies.”
S?on> the only real ladies will be the wives of
K.C.M.G.’s and the damsels of uneasy virtue.
LOGICAL.
DISCONSOLATE PARTY: “She's left met
She’s left me!”
PHILOSOPHER : “ Well, well! Then I
suppose I may call this an interesting dis-
covery of human remains."
Tumufc (N.S.W.) has been illustrating how
hard a cow can kick when it likes. There was at
ttie start of the performance just the ordinary row
over the ownership of the beast, just the ordinary
friendly-neighbor s prosecution for cattle-stealing
just the ordinary swearing that it was Brown’s
cow all right, and the ordinary swearing that it
was Smith’s. The tired P.M., probably having
no chance to toss for it, passed the trouble on to a
jury ; and after thinking over it for a long while
the jury said it didn’t know, and acquitted its
neighbor as in the day of evil it hoped to be
acquitted itself. Then Brown, who had been the
accused in the first case, sued Smith to get
damages for illegal detention of cow and loss of
character ; and the whole trouble was raked up
again. (Meantime the cow, becoming lonely in
the police-yard, Providence had sent it a calf.)
Pugh teen witnesses again swore that it was
Brown s cow, and 17 that it was Smith’s ; and the
jury thought that the swearing was equal enough
to justify it in disagreeing some more. Brown’s
cow and Smith’s cow factions were beginning to
form themselves, when, something after midnight,
Brown and Smith simultaneously had visions of
the bills that the cow was costing ; so they led
one another outside and shook hands, and
reckoned it up that they were already over £4OO
out of pocket, and sacked their lawyers, and
agreed to give the cow to the local hospital. And
now Ihe Bulletin is waiting to hear that the
cow has pleuro or something, and that it has cost
the hospital 7s. fid. to have the carcase carted out
to the back of the township and burned.
All _4 he trouble over that Tumut cow, and
the difficulty of getting a jury to convict in
c t ases of disputed cow-identification, recalls some-
thing that happened in a town away out in the
dust at a time when cattle changed hands oftener
than receipts. There had been six or eight cases
at the sessions, and all looked pretty clear—any-
way to the Judge, who, failing to get a convic-
tion, made each charge to the jury stronger than
the one before. Last came a youngster ; and the
J udge changed his manner, and nearly melted.
I lie last thing the jurymen heard as they filed out
was ; ‘ And so young too ; poor lad, poor lad ! ”
Here s our chance,’ the foreman whispered.
If we find the young ’un guilty, the old chap’ll
only give him about six months, and we’ll win
back the district’s reputation.” So thev filed in.
‘‘Guilty.” ’Sonah was lying in wait for it!
Seven years,” he snapped as soon as he decently
could. Then the jury looked along its beard, and
felt that it had fallen in.
* * * *
Sydney’s very human and likeable parson,
W. Carr Smith, is in trouble with some of the
Sabbatarians for making this remark—
• lf L he were a young layman he would spend his Sundays
in the following manner : Stay in bed an hour later than
usual; attend a celebration of the Eucharist at 9 ; break-
fast about 10 : then loaf ; read or write letters till’lunch •
after dinner take recreation, perhaps boating, cycling or
pay a few calls j after that attend a bright evensong
where there would be a short sermon if possible • thus
beginning and ending the day worshipping God.
Yet surely that is a sensible, a reverent, and a
godly Sunday for the young Christian. But there
still survives in Sydney—by some curious stay of
the processes of mental evolution—a weep-and-
howl section of Christians, whose God is a God of
gloom and terror only to be worshipped in fear
and trembling in a purgatorial tin conventicle, to
Whom fresh air and rational recreation and a clear
wholesome body are things accursed. It is possible
to understand Calvin in a dark Swiss valley in an
age when sanitation was unknown. But Calvinism
in bright, sunny Australia is curiously out of
place. Perhaps it will fade away when the sewer-
age systems have been perfected and food-adul-
teration stopped.
* * * .
An Australian Chief Justice on matrimonial
matters (duringa recent breach of promise ease):
As far as the law is concerned a man must take the
amount of affection that a woman can give He may
look for the warmth of Sapho and find the chill kiss of
Diana, but he cannot complain afterwards. The woman
says. Such as I was you sought me j such as I was you
were willing to marry me.” We deal with a contract of
marriage as we deal with a contract for the sale of
potatoes or anything else. (Laughter.) A woman tells a
man she does not love him, but he says, “I will make
you.” He knows the thing he is bargaining for, and that
is the thing he has to take.
Dr. Gresswell lately astonished his fellow
members of Melb. Board of Health by sticking a
piece of common piping into the lovely Corpora-
tion tip at West Melbourne and holding a lighted
match at the other end, when he got a steady
flame seven inches long—natural gas. Then he
decanted some of the effluvium off into cylinders
and therewith. kept four lamps burning for a
while, clearly illuminating the darkened board-
room. This is the sort of atmosphere the surround-
ing citizens breathe, and the responsible city
councillors are to be invited to excuse themselves.
But they are more likely to lease their beautiful
tip as a “concession” to some lighting shindykit
and then start to make another.
* • * •
Marie Corelli, writing of the domestic
servant difficulty in London, says that good
servants are plentiful, but most of them won’t
take situations on account of the characters of
their would-be mistresses, who are “unblushingly
indecent and unspeakably vulgar.” “I could
name dozens of cases,” she declares, “ where girls,
on inquiry, have actually declined lucrative
situations and contented themselves with work at
lower wages rather than be known as ‘in service ’
with certain distinguished ladies.” Mary Jane,
in short, is afraid of losing her good character by
mixing with London’s Very Best People, and
judging by recent divorce proceedings she has
good reason to be.
• • * *
Melb. Age, which has begun to worry up
the barmaid question, affords evidences of the
fact that it has gone no further than the gospel-
cwm-temperance organisations for its information.
Different from the case of a Sydney daily when
agitating for the abolition of the Hebe. It sent
out two of its best and most worldly-wise writers
to personally investigate the mysteries of the pri-
vate bar, gave them weeks to go round, and pro-
vided them with much money for expenses.
One of those pressmen (the other is dead) still
alludes to the job as the one great compensation
for years of arduous and joyless newspaper experi-
ence, and their articles certainly had a great deal
more weight, and more hiccup, than a whole
mountain of impersonal “statistics” and other
information prepared by pallid young men who
could never trust themselves within cooee of a
pretty barmaid without feeling tempted to “fall.”
• • » *
Canowindra Star (N.S.W.) reports :
A team of 20 Chinese are at present engaged suckering
8000 acres on the Glen Gariff estate between Cargo and
Orange ; 3s. per acre is the price given ; estimated by
Europeans to be a splendidly paying one. But the
Europeans were not given a chance to compete for the
work.
It is a mystery why some employers prefer Chinese
labor when it is not a question of economy, unless
it is that they enjoy the servility or the smell of
the alien. Very possibly it is the last; some
people have a taste for high game and lofty
oysters; and a depraved liking for a Chinese flavor
about a place would go quite naturally with that
weakness.
* « * *
Melbourne efforts to run a “ simultaneous
mission,” without Yankee showmen Torrey and
Geil, were a dreary frost. “ Bleeds that Won the
Empire ” Fitchett therefore waxes bitter in his
religious weekly :
The missioners, it might almost be said, have to take
their own audience of Christian sympathisers with them
—the Yarra bank crowd passes them by. A semi-lunatic
orator on Home Rule, and Mr. Fleming’s lurid and equally
lunatic discourses on anarchy [mark the “Christian”
tone] gather large audiences.
Rather rashly Fitchett prints two photos, showing
the small “ Christian ” gathering and Fleming’s
crowd of some hundreds. Perhaps, after all, the
“ Lurid Lunatic ” is more in sympathy with the
fishers of Galilee than the superior Fitchett and
Co.
* * # *
Brutal remark by “Nym.” :
Clean necks are the order of the day since the new
style of hair-gear, which consists of brushing the hair to
a bob on the crown of the head, became fashionable in
those circles where young women gather.
This is the sort of society item in which
N.Q. papers revel. The Mackay Mercury records
the marriage of
Hannah Mickey, daughter of Jimmy Mickey, formerly
of Gala (S. Sea Islands) with Mr. Henry Mie, also of S. 8.
parentage but Queensland native. . . . The bride was
given away by her father and was attended by two little
Kanaka maidens>as bridesmaids. .. . The bride’s costume
consisted of white merveilleux, trimmed with torchon
lace, bridal veil and orange blossoms. She carried a
handsome bouquet. . . . The bridal couple left amid
showers of rice for Te Kowai.
If it were not for Kanaka weddings, Chinese
gambling-den raids and Polynesian outrages, the
Northern Press would have little left to write
about.
* * * «
A feature in the Melbourne landscape
which suggests the first faint breath of Boom is
the number of red-tiled, brick villas that have
sprung up of late. These are mostly planked
down in patches, a dozen or so in a patch, each
in its half-acre of ground. They are all speculator-
built, and run from A4OO to each ; and
they sell well, though the business is already over-
done. Also, as they face all ways and no two are
exactly alike, they are a pleasing variant on the
ghastly terraces of brick or weatherboard houses,
with iron roofs and chimneys like rows of pins,
and handkerchief “gardens’’ with amende
creepers stuck therein.
* * * *
The habit in Australia of a women being
a lady—always a lady and never anything but a
lady—reached its climax, surely, the other day
when that loud and untamed King Billy paper,
the Protestant Standard, printed this :
_ Long years ago Russia cut off Rome, and now Spain,
trance, Austria, Portugal, indeed every nation of the
earth over which Rome held sway are busily engaged ex-
pelling the Scarlet Lady.
The Scarlet Lady! We had hoped that, no
matter who else became a perfect lady, at any rate
the Scarlet Woman was safe. But no; though
all the unpleasant adjectives in the dictionary may
be applied to that symbolic personage, site is
nevertheless a lady, a real lady.
THE ENFRANCHISED.
DORA : " Roast leg of pork, onion stuffing, and
apple-sauce, with cabbage and potatoes, and
plenty of gravy, and some suet dumplings,
and —a pint of stout.”
Measles having broken out at Fiji, the
Wesleyan deputation that was to have followed
on the tracks of Cardinal Moran to the coral
strand has been warned not to come. And pos-
sibly for the same reason the Cardinal will aban-
don his visit. Then all will be peace and measles.
Measles are much better visitors than a Wesleyan
deputation and a Cardinal.
* * • *
The habit of being found dead seems to be
getting even more common than usual nowadays,
hvery morning the daily papers have two or
three paragraphs detailing how a couple of lovers
strolled into a quiet spot and were just about to
commence rubbing faces when Angelina drew
attention to a gentleman lying down. Generally
the gentleman was dead. Sometimes a man just
wanders in, casual like, to an empty house and
protests against the evil influences of the proper-
tied class by dying on the premises and making
the place hard to let. Nothing makes a place so
hard to let as the fact that a stranger cut his
throat on the premises.
AUTUMN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I made a grave where leaves lay sere.
All Love ! All Hope lie buried here 1
(It was the waning of the year.)
All Hope. All Love. Slow, slow the sun
Sank to his setting. One by one
The small birds hushed, the day was done.
My tears fell fast upon the ground,
Where Love and Hope lay sleeping sound ;
Kind leaves crept down and hid the mound.
The Darkness came and brooded low ;
Across the grave, with wailing woe,
A moaning breeze didst come and go.
I made a grave where leaves lay sere~
All, all my heart lies buried here.
(It was the waning of the year.)
DOROTHY MO.
THE LOVERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ambition thus to Love :
“ Thou wert my queen—
My own—till Future’s glamor fell between.
Thy love to prove ;
Give back my vow ;
Too mean art thou to reign beside me now."
Ambition thus to Love,
When years had rolled :
“ Vain, foolish were my vision hopes of old.
O Queen above,
Come I too late ?
Forgive—be happy with thy meaner mate."
M.L.
V.H.O.


In the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS
KLEINERTS HOOKON
, s the only Corr - ect Hose Supporter
To Wear with the NEW FORM CORSET
Sold only at the Best Shops.
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S.,
DENTAL SURGEON, 43 Oxford-st., Sydney
_ , (between Mark Foy’s and Riley-st.)- HIGH-CLASS
DENTISTRY at lowest prices. Guaranteed absolutely painless extractions by latest American system—a great
success. Beautiful and perfect-fitting atmospheric suction sets of American teeth, giving the wearer ease,
comfort and naturaLappearance. Coraline gum plates, without springs or wires. Elastic Gum Coraline is the
most recent, up-to-date plate for mounting teeth. All wrinkles and hollow cheeks disappear. It is so natural
that it defies detection. For comfort, strength and lightness it surpasses everything previously introduced.
Coraline is perfectly tasteless, and remains wholesome and pure. Badly fitting plates remodelled on this new
system. Up-to-date gold crowns. Call and see specimens of latest methods. Upper and lower sets from £lls.
Single teeth from ss. Teeth filled, scaled and bleached. Country visitors fitted in one day if required.
"X.
v&
O
D
o
&
O
d*'
S'*
:/
*•’
©V»
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
ZITILINE
Cheapest and Best Line in the Oity.
5000 YABDS DOUBLE WIDTH ZITILINE
CLOTH,
The Fashionable Dress Material,
in Vieux Rose, Roseda, Electric Cardinal,
Grey, Myrtle Navy, Black and White, etc.
1 j*J\ PER YARD.
Patterns Post Free to any address.
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion,"
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
“e r ettcs
Are: the Ideal fv\BRiCS
FOR
p -f
€>V R/VI IN COATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 7, 1903.
My Dear Arini.—
Resurrection season always brings a budding of
the dry twigs of society. Gov. -General and Lady
Tennyson’s cards are out for a dance at the Mac-
quarie-street palace, and those cards make a
“light blue lane of early dawn” (Tennyson) out
bf the long hot summer night of dullness. May be
a lane on which few can skip, but it will give some
shops some trade, and some cabmen a few fares.
Besides; it leads into the Agricultural Show
Ground, arid runs out to the A.J.C. races, and
winds up tb the Town Hall portals and balls.
The Tennysbns started to grind the social mill
last week by attending a naval and military tattoo
at Victoria Barracks in aid of the drought fund.
Some seven thousand silent, unapplausive persons
sat in circular darkness and listened to bands,
Single and massed, and gazed on the scarlet array
on the green of the barrack cricket-ground. The
lobster heap was lighted by tongues of orange
flame from torches, a cluster of acetylene gas
lamps shed their intolerable radiance over it, and
a half-faced moon looked from overhead, and, if
the men in that satellite found the show more
amusing than we did, they must be easily pleased.
Concerning colors : Did you note the afterglow
of last Sunday’s sunset ? The unclouded west was
one mighty blush of dusky flame, as if the Great
White Throne itself was on fire, and out of the
dull rose blazed the planet of love, that beautiful
hussy, Venus, flashing diamond rays. It must
have inspired our sunset poet, especially if he saw
it through the great grave gums, to do another
Fantasy.
But to return to high society: the Tennysons
went to St. Ignatius’ regatta and watched “the
measured pulse of racing oars” (I’ll let the Gov.-
General see that there’s one copy of Papa’s poems
in Australia) and looked over the college, which
commands such an unsurpassed view of Hunter’s
Hill. The river swarmed with small craft, and
every R.C. of note or notelessness was there. The
Gov.-General was dressed as the skipper of the
launch Premier in very tight uniform. Lady T.,
in a holland frock and blue sailor hat, brought her
three sons—such jolly little fellows, in white
raiment.
Liedertafel held its 122nd concert last week,
under the baton of its new conductor, Arundel
Orchard, a young man with a cleft in his chin,
deep-socketed eyes, pince-nez, and an I-shall-be-
obeyed manner of waving his stick. He is a
quiet conductor ; his gestures don’t suggest that
he is standing on an ant-hill, and that some of the
owners of the soil are in his coat-sleeves. Amy
Murphy, a young Maorilander, made her first
local appearance as a singer, and as both appear-
ance and voice are fresh and cultivated, the
audience intimated by its hearty applause and
encores that it will be glad to see her (and her
greenstone pendant) when occasion offers.
Hope Mayne, who left Sydney some nine
months ago to “try” London, has secured an
engagement to go to Africa with Mr. Sass, for-
merly of the Brough 00. Mr. and Mrs. Thomas,
who used to be with the Arnold co., also join the
new combine. Miss Mayne will play Olivia in
“Sweet Nell,” Lucy in “Lady Huntworth’s
Experiment,” and the r6le Mrs. Brough had in
“ The Manoeuvres of Jane.” Inez Bensusan has
deserted the inkpots and ice of New York, and
when last heard from was at Monte Carlo with
her brother Edgar. In his “ Impressions ” given
to a local paper, “Willie” Beattie says he was
told by the Harmsworths (when he submitted
some articles) that “four Australians had over-
stocked the market. ” Four Australians had over-
stocked London with its five millions, and its
annexes with their 25 millions !
Mark Hambourg is on his way to Australia
from the United States, where the serious critics
were unanimous in the opinion that his place in
the musical arena is on the shoulders of most
other pianists* The serio-comic criticisms make
the best reading for persons who are not walking
symphonies or concertos. “He tore up and down
the keyboard and grabbed great chunks of
melody,” says one authority, “all the while
bobbing up and down on the piano-stool like an
animated mop.” “ Hambourg’s mannerisms con-
sist of his walk and his hair. He is the first piano
soloist ever heard in this city who did not
insist on moving the piano other-end-round after
the stage hands had worked on it for 15 minutes,
but that little omission of genius may be forgiven
him. Small, and almost frail, with stooping
shoulders, he comes upon the stage with a swing
and a rush that remind one of a belated office-boy
hurrying workward at the last moment, with a
fire-me-if-you-can-but -1 - hurried -at - the - last ex-
pression that is very convincing.”
“Ferresford Waltz,” by Adeline Parry, is on
the market, and ready for light fantastic toes and
any other kind of toe that feels inclined to invest.
Its composer is the wife of the heavy-weight
young gentleman who acts as hon. sec. to the
Liedertafel, and no doubt State Premier See, to
whom the composition is dedicated, will find it
one of those irresistible waltzes that first catch
the ear and then curl round the heart, till, on a
sudden, they pervade the legs and make them
gyrate recklessly on a slippery surface.
A Scotch thistle in holy orders (Campbell is his
name) has been saying in London that the late
Hector Macdonald “was very sensitive and that
his unpopularity in Ceylon was due to the fact
that he did not give parties.” It sounds weak.
Fighting Mac with his strong barking voice as a
party-giver, and doing Dolly-dialogues on the
lawn with smart married women, and then
taking a racquet at tennis with a fashionable
curate and the Governor’s daughter ! Dr. Camp-
bell says he warned the General of a jealous feeling
in regard to him, but does not report Mac.’s reply.
Perhaps he retorted that in Ceylon (on the
authority of Bishop Heber, who wanted a rhyme
for isle) “only man is vile,” and that for all their
jealousies he wasn’t going to bang saxpences away
on jungle teas. Perhaps he just swore, and
took up a book on tactics. When at Darley’s
garden party in Sydney he turned his back on the
fawning ladies to talk tactics with another military
man. Mac. was just the kind of soldier to glory
in the unpopularity that comes of no ping-pong,
bridge, or champagne cup.
Concerning the lack of mention of a Lady
Macdonald. It seems at Sydney, at the Highland
gathering in his horror, the General returned
thanks on behalf of his wife and family.
Primate Saumarez Smith’s eldest daughter, who
accompanied her father to London, is to be mar-
ried to Rev. Mr. Griffiths after Lent. The fianc4
was chaplain to the Primate when in Sydney.
He has secured a country living outside the Great
Smoke.
Two big fascinating bundles of accordeon-
pleated chiffon, spindrift lace, narrow applique
ribbon, sprays of pink rosebuds and bunches of
violets have held large street audiences for the
last week at a George-st. draper’s window. None
knew what they were, and many went inside to
ask. “Opera muffs” was the reply. They are
Midsummer-night’s-dream things to look at, but
Titania and her whole court might house in one of
them.
In an English seed catalogue I notice that the
blue-gum is recommended to florists as a pot-plant
for green houses ! And another species of euca-
lyptus—a Tasmanian one (which grows in its
native land to a height of three or four hundred
feet) is advertised as “forming a very elegant
bush, or small tree, almost hardy.”
A returned Durbarite says of the great Salma-
gundy that it was shockingly mismanaged. Train
service so disorganised that people were stranded
in Delhi for a fortnight after the curtain had rung
down. Lord Curzon’s camp cost for feeding and
sleeping £3 per day—use of carriage, £4 per day.
Fourteen days at Delhi cost this Durbarite’s party
of four £300. One native potentate, finding that
the terms for himself and retinue would eat up his
State’s revenues for three years or so, bought a
plot of ground and hastily ran up a series of
bungalows, and so saved his fortune.
What a noisy city Sydney is. The roar and
whirr of the electric trams is a big improvement
on the awful rattle of the ’busses over the serrated
blocks in the olden days, but it is still an awful
noise. There seems to be no law to make the
drivers of vehicles oil their wheels, and George-
street is sometimes filled with the shrieks and
groans of the dry axle. In the residential streets,
the hawker, the bottle-oh man, the fiend who
sells stale prawns, the howling of the tied-up dog,
and all the other nuisances, bawl and shout the
livelong day, and at night cabs rattle past,
cats hold concerts, children scream and howl,
and all these make the darkness more dreadful
than the daylight. Some day the silent city will
be evolved, where the vehicles will glide noise-
lessly by, and the people pass softly to and fro,
while birds whistle and chortle in the shade trees
that grow along the dreamy streets. In that city
life will be worth living, and the only nuisance
will be the dead organ grinders hanging on the
lamp posts at the corners. But there will be com-
pensations about that nuisance.
A travelling Australian recently met Ada
Rehan,. the American actress. She was with the
Marquis of Ripon’s family, who are her staunchest
friends. Ada is now a middle-aged woman, with
white hair. But, as she is very rich, she can
afford the white hair and the years.
On the evening of Easter Monday Miss Mulli-
gan’s farewell concert will eventuate in Sydney
Town Hall. The huge programme is to be given
by a cloud of first-class artists, and is under vice-
regal patronage. The proverb that a prophet is
without honor in his own country does not apply
to this grand-niece of Vincent Wallace, for in
Manly, where she lives, the local hall was crowded
night after night to hear her in “Pinafore” and
the “Pirates of Penzance 1 ” and the village has
evidently made up its mind to be present at this
farewell concert, as it has arranged for a special
steamer to take it home after the show. The box
plan is at Paling’s, and the function is under the
management of Mr. Robert Kohblanck, by per-
mission of autocrat J. C. Williamson. The little
singer will leave, under the wing of her mamma,
for Europe about the 25th, and will go straight to
Paris for tuition under Marchesi.
A bazaar in aid of the Drought Relief (Mayor’s
Fund) was held at “Kioto,” Mr. T. Playfair’s
place at Waverley, last week. Enough money
was realised to lighten some selector’s load and
buy him seed wheat, if not to restock his sheep-
paddock. The fine big trees and far-reaching
garden of “Kioto” were illuminated and trade
seemed brisk. Serving damsels at the stalls wore
huge Distinguished Service orders of green ribbon
and lace aprons, with pockets quite big enough to
hold one chocolate-cream.
Dr. Richard Steer Bowker, M.L.O., who died
at his house at Darling Point, Sydney, last week,
at the age of 88, had been in practice in N.S.W.
for close upon 66 years. He was a skilful surgeon
and oculist. Four of his six sons follow their
father’s profession. Mrs. Tom Rolin, the
youngest of his nine children, is a Sydney beauty.
For Miss Rose Scott, the woman-suffragist leader
and lecturer, the late Dr. Bowker had a great
regard. All the same, the last time he took his
seat in the Council was to try to defeat the
Woman Suffrage Bill.
Melba is back in Sydney, staying with the
State Governor’s family.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Prof. Peterson is about again after a serious
lilr.css. But the picturesque professor is not
likely to enjoy really robust health as long as the
struggle for the prosperity of the Conservatorium
goes on, and with such a masterly rival school as
Marshall Hall’s that struggle must go on It was
surmised, long ago, that Prof. Peterson was facing
a position he didn’t fully understand when he
accepted the Ormond Chair of Music. At the
time Melbourne was in a ferment from old-woman-
newspaper interpretation of Marshall Hall’s in-
different and harmless ‘ poetry,’ and the Scotch-
byterian clans cried aloud for a righteous brother
with a poetic taste for Moody and Sanky
to come and wrest the baton from ‘ this brilliant
blasphemist. ’ So Prof. Peterson came with his
pink cheeks and unblemished record, and settled
down happily to the work of starting afresh a
fumigated and Christian Conservatorium. Then
the fickle public, including many of the scan-
dalised Scotchbyterians, did a somersault and
landed over at the doors of the ex-professor they
had tried to hound down. Every week Marshall
Hall’s Academy receives fresh recruits, and grows
in power. The Ormond professor finds it difficult
to keep the orthodox Conservatorium even
numerically strong. It will never be musically
productive.
“ One of the most moneyed bachelors Mel-
bourne knows, tiring of the monotony of rude
health and society life, developed a fashionable
complaint—something royal, like appendicitis—
and was laid up for repairs in a private hospital,
where the nurses are given to prettiness, and the
sawbones is famed for the sharpness of his wit
and his lancet. The sick man had a good time,
got better slowly, and was so indifferent to the
outside world that he refused to see visiting
angels of his smart circle, and let the nurses enjoy
the exotics sent to his bed-side. When convales-
cence—an interesting stage in a * smart ’ hospital
—could be feigned no longer, and the petted Dives
had to take up his kit and walk, the nurses wept,
and were only comforted when he promised to
catch the next fashionable complaint.
“The anxiety of Melbourne’s surplus girls to
sample the fun of life in the nursing r6le ! They
wait in hundreds for admittance to don the sober
uniform of the sisterhood, even though premiums
be exacted. The romantic patting of Romeo’s or
Don Juan’s pillow looms up all the while, and the
initial stages of ward-work —disgusting in many
aspects—awake no aesthetic qualms.
“ Nowadays, girls who want to ‘go in for
writing,’ do a course of hospital nursing, by way
of seeing life and accumulating ‘copy.’ Certainly
nurses do get a few eye-openers. Scribe knows of
one who had to comb and plait pigtails for two
Chinaman patients every morning. She says she
found Ah Sam and Co. the cleanest, most grate-
ful, and most modest patients in the wards. As
far as modesty goes, sick men, say nurses, are not
wanting in delicacy of feeling or manner, but sick
gentlemen sometimes seem to suppose that because
a girl is a nurse, small reserves, not to say decen-
cies, would be wasted on her.
“ A wistful male musician contributes his ex-
perience of musical and business dealings with a
notable star. When the sea was calm and life
abroad dull, there arose a war rumble, and they
guessed madam was rousing on someone. ‘I
think she used to do it for the fun of the
thing. But it made one feel horribly unsafe,’
and the young man gives a shiver. ‘Really, she
was wonderfully nice to me. I don’t know why,’
winds up the coy tootler, as if he (the rogue) knew
well, but wasn’t going to tell. Probably madam
scorned to show fight to so sad a foe. As she
mentioned to a Toorak chum, ‘ I’ll mammy him,
or he’ll sink us with tears.
“ A breezy Melb. surgeon scored brilliantly the
other day, in a case where a young wife wanted
permission to sit and sigh all day by the side of
her sick spouse in the private hospital, where he lay
under treatment. The surgeon gently hinted that
this was strictly contrary to rules. The jealous dame
persisted, saying she would give her darling all the
care and attention possible. Then the man of the
lancet was annoyed and hatched a plot. “ Nurse,”
he called out later, as the wife sat at her vigil,
“ Get so and so and so and so (naming all sorts of
unpleasant instruments) and treat the patient.
Be very careful and very thorough.” The devoted
wife took the alarm. “ Doctor, not in my
presence. Wait, for just five minutes and I’ll be
gone.” And she was.
“ There was a big display of woman’s private
or drawing-room leg, a while back, at a South
Yarra afternoon corroboree. During lunch, the
talk had turned from scandal to matters of weight
and dress-measures, and a controversy arose as to
the figure at which one and another turned the
scales. Finally, one started up with ‘You really
don’t believe I’m twelve stone? I’m as hard as
nails. Why, look at that for a leg.’ When the
laughter had subsided, other contentious legs were
unveiled, and there was at length the spectacle of
a dozen fashionable woman with skirts hoisted
above their knees in a fierce contest for the fattest
calf.
“ Not Lord Hawke’s, but the other man’s
cricketers left Melbourne unhonored and unwept
by Tuesday’s Oroya. They looked a solitary set
when some male Melbourne sympathisers left and
they lined up to the deck-rails watching the
kiss-throwing to luckier brethren on board. A full
but not over-interesting passenger list included
Mrs. and Miss Sargood. The leave-taking of a
daughter of Israel was the moistest thing about
the scene. Her ‘ fader ’ kissed her many times,
then ‘ mudder ’ slobbered her hugely, and a dozen
' brudders ’ rained kisses on her wet cheeks.
After that the female friends—all of the imposing
nose order—took her to their ample bosoms and
hugged her warmly. Hebrew kinship is even
hotter and more demonstrative than the Hibernian
brother love.
“Miss Vida Goldstein wishes to take the place
of the late Henry Parkes as the Women’s Moses.
Here is the style of her law-giving: ‘Australian
women are going to use their vote, first and fore-
most, for the best men. Men who are known to
be immoral, or unscrupulous, or self-seeking, or
un-public-spirited, will not receive the support
of the women. I admit their choice will be
extremely limited.’
“Women visiting Wirths’ Circus these times
waste no affection on the ‘Marvellous Howards.’
As the blindfold partner rattles forth minute de-
scriptions of curios, &c., almost faster than his
mate can collect them from the audience, petti-
coat wearers agree sotto voce that, fake or no fake,
it would be ‘ simply horrid ’ to meet such a seer
at close quarters, not to speak of drawing one of
his sort in the matrimonial lottery. Picture him
penetrating all the small disguises and shams dear
to feminine nature and mentally noting the shreds
and patches of the sex’s physical make-up—the
artificial tooth, the pinned-on ‘switch,’ the pneu-
matic hip-yoke !
“Should a girl be bent upon marrying into Saw-
dust circles, I should strongly advise her to set
her affections upon the “ Strong Man ” of a troupe,
provided, of course, he’s still unappropriated.
Since the days of Samson these brawny heroes
have been as wax in feminine hands and seem
born to be hen-pecked. There’s one professional
Hercules I used to know who is tied absolutely to the
apron-strings of his scrap of a wife. This lady
did not hesitate to trade on her lord’s reputation
for strength. Said she to the landlord of a tiny
out-back inn: ‘My ’usband is too proud to sleep
in a back room. Give us your swellest, or ’e’ll do
for you.’ ‘ Who might the party be ? ’ queried the
landlord. ‘Z , the Emperor of Strength,’
snapped the wife. Landlord grew gushing at once
and laid his establishment at the feet of poor
Biceps, who stood by, mild as milk, and only
anxious to find a corner wherein to snore in peace.
“ A common sight is that of President Henry
Wrixon’s daughter, dressed as sombrely as a
convent postulant, passing along to some asylum
or other, on a pilgrimage of mercy. She is one of
the most enthusiastic and gentlest “slummers”
of Melbourne.
“ The first she to win a Vic. law degree is that
astute Scotch girl—Miss Floss Greig. The ‘ Floss ’
is annoying, but that’s her look out. Two of her
sisters ply the lancet in a busy quarter of Mel-
bourne. The Greigs are Dundee lasses, and have
the national characteristics of foresight, common
sense, endurance, and steady perseverance.
“ In the appointment of Public Service officers
to the new Appeal Board, it is found that the
feminine vote goes mainly to the wearer of the
sportiest tie, the fanciest vest and the brightest
tan shoes. Even the crusty she-clerks—long-
service record-makers —are seriously inclined to
favor the jaunty males, the smilers of the Service.
The male who cocks his hat to the side, and
brightens up visibly when even a sober ‘ lustre ’
skirt whisks into sight may be a lamentable trifler
and a humbug, but he has evidently a corner in
his heart for the sex, and is held to be the best
battler for her interests.
“ Stated that Miss Edith Moore, senior sister
to the chirpy Elsie, of the Williamson Musical
Comedy Co., has married a Fijian personage—Sir
Francis De Win ton.
“ The brief skirt is upon us. In Collins-street
these mornings, when the fairest do the rounds of
shopping and the massage parlors, the short skirt
is to be seen and the back curves are erased. The
smart trip along, hands swinging by the side, the
tail-less dress hanging in demure folds like the fat
about a holy man’s neck.
“Bendigo isn’t beaten yet for prodigies in the
vocal line. The latest is a Miss Eva Laughton,
who is shortly to have a preliminary canter on the
professional boards. Her voice is alleged to be
sweet and soul-stirring.
“The Purity Brigade is extending its inquiries
into the quarters of the barmaid. The scandal of
‘ spooning bars ’ crept into large paper type the
other day. Members of the Purity Brigade want
to know— ‘ If hundreds of these swell “spooning
bars” are in existence, who supports them?’
They intend to ask their husbands.
“Another She-Club looms on the horizon. This
time, ‘ nice ’ people are understood to barrack for
it, and Dames Forrest, Turner, and Madden stand
in trust for its respectability of purpose. The
Western dame is at the head of the movement,
having for her model the Katta-Katta Club of
Perth. A fine suggestive name that!
“ What changes have come over the Women’s
Hospital Catmittee ! No longer a sanctuary for
idle purrers, nor a distraction for ambitious
fashionables, it jogs along, faintly reported, made
up now of shrewd, intelligent women. There is
not much rustling of silk linings in the Catmittee
rooms these days, but neither is there any knitting
of socks, nor sharpening of private axes.”
“ The Victorian Chief Justicess is establishing
a firm friendship with the new bishopess. The
Waxellency leaves all religious matters in the
hands of his sweet-looking dame, hence the high
Anglican tone of his household. Meanwhile he
himself gives a shoulder to Jew and Gentile,
Salvationist and Jesuit, by affable aphorisms
on special occasions. Periodically it is stated that
he is no longer a member of the R.C. faith, and
periodically there is a denial of the statement.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


CHOLERA. DIARRHCEA.
British Cholera—that is the name given by doctors to the dangerous'diarrhoea so common at this season.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are the one sure, scientific cure for this deadly cholera with its violent purging,
its cramping colic, its vomiting, and its clammy, weakening sweats.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure all these bowel troubles because they soothe and strengthen the intestines
with pure, new, rich, red blood.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don’t purge and weaken like common pills—no, they heal and build-up,
because they actually make new blood.
That is how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure all stomach and bowel complaints like cholera, dysentery,
diarrhoea, dyspepsia, windiness, and indigestion.
JUNEE MAN CURED.— Mr. William Perrie, of Old Junee, an expert shearing machinist, well-known in the
Riverina and Lafchlan, says : “In June, 1902,1 began to suffer terribly from cholera and weakening diarrhoea. My
stomach was so upset that every meal brought on indigestion, heartburn and sour gases. A dead, heavy weight lay across
my chest. Fits of wind and internal pains kept me awake for hours. My nerves became unstrung, and the terrible
diarrhoea continued to drain away my strength. Seeing Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills recommended in the Sydney Mail, I
began taking them. They enriched my blood and braced up my nerves from the very first. In a day or two the diarrhoea
lessened and then stopped. In a few weeks I was a strong, hearty man again.”
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. “Is. 9d. a box; six boxes, 15s. 3d.
Medical advice given absolutely free. Refuse all substitutes and avoid all poisonous patent purgatives.
i
some
PERSONAL ITEMS.
It is feared that Dr. Bevan, the cherubic
Melbourne parson, intends to publish a “ History
of Australia, or something in that way.
It was Home Secretary J. F. Gr. Foxton
who was mainly responsible for the comprehensive
and admirable Queensland Local Authorities Act.
The threatened lawsuit, W. P. Crick v.
Tom Slattery, will be interesting from a police-
court point of view. Both are sons of policemen.
Speaker Holder is so fond of politics that
he took the chair in a model Parliament at St.
Peter s (an Adelaide suburb) last week. The place
is not in his constituency, either.
Edwin Smith, president of S.A. Cricketing
Association and a score of other organisations
was 72 on Monday, April 6. He made his money
by beer, but lost much of it by drought.
An Adelaide man alleges this :
Sergeant Hanley, one of the warders at Yatala Labor
Tp® ol1 — the S - A - Pentridge—was in the fight of Maiuba
Hill with Hector Macdonald. So was Page, one of the
Queensland members of the House of Representatives.
The Supreme Court of Victoria only last
week decided to strike off the roll of barristers
Joseph Henry Grey, the Geelong Gent. One who
did almost the biggest swindle in Australian his-
tory some years ago.
Little Sammy Way completes his 67th
year on April 11. He showed the cosmopolitan
character of his desire to be agreeable to all sorts
and conditions of men by calling for three cheers
for Major Taylor on the Adelaide Oval the other
day.
A few old semi-forgottens to be met any
day in Melbourne streets : Abe Hicken, Jimmy
Munro, Mat Davies, Bryan O’Loghlen, and
Murray Ross, who built the enormous white
elephant of the beetroot sugar factory, at Ross-
town.
Judge Burnside, of Westralia, made what
is surely a unique commencement of his judicial
career. To doll up in the odious millinery of the
black cap and sentence six people to death, and
within a fortnight to find the Full Court, on
appeal, agreeing that there was no substantial
evidence on which five of them could be convicted,
is, at least, unusual.
How they regard the alien up North.
Charters Towers Miner published the following
hurricane item from the Lower Burdekin :
“ Kelly’s hotel lost the roof. Mr. Ching Do’s shop
was blown down.” The white man is just
“Kelly.” The yellow man is alluded to rever-
ently as Mr. Cock-a-Doodle-Do, or whatever his
appelation may be.
Jenkins Iscariot, who has just completed
his 25th year in S. Australia, where he landed a
full Amurrikan citizen, has held office for 10 years
and 3 months ; which makes a record, beating
even Kingston’s. Only his book-canvassing train-
ing has made this possible. Like Jones (the man
that What Happened To), he learned then to
offer them playing-cards if he couldn’t do business
in prayer-books.
THEY LOVED THEIR SEX.
HER: “So many men object to their widows
marrying again .”
HIM: “ Yes, it is most gratifying to find so much
philanthropy in the world.”
As Amy Castles led her tuneful sister to
the breach of public life, so Premier John See
leads brother David. David has started on a
butter and milk district, and hopes to arrive early
in Parliament with a butter pat in one hand and
a jug in the other.
A prominent JS.S.W. politician who was
fond of distributing photographs of “me and the
gallant soldier So-and-so ” doesn’t send them
around now, and he recognises the great truth
that a man should never be photographed in any
company except that of his dog.
Whether it had anything to do with what
happened to him in the end or not, Hector
Macdonald did have a detestation of “society.”
In Australia once, bored by the effusive attentions
of some haw-haw officahs, he begged his hosts to
introduce him to “ somebody less distinguished.”
That discredited and astoundingly cheeky
person, Captain Miles, whose jobbery lost him his
seat in the Assembly and his portfolio in the
Braddon Ministry, and brought that Ministry to
the dust, was a candidate at the Tasmanian elec-
tion of last week. The stench of his Strahan
Marine Board doings was too recent —still he got
234 votes.
The Bulletin regrets to hear a rumor
that some godless person lately prigged four of
Cardinal Moran’s nightshirts. If he had only
five, this must leave him rather short. And, by
the way, it is said that no really orthodox ecclesi-
astic of the R.C. faith wears pyjamas. There is
thought to be something frivolous, if not actually
immodest, about pyjamas.
Current rumor in London hints that
Whitaker Wright, of the great London and
Globe smash, relied for immunity from proceed-
ings on the that he had been “uncle” to
King Ned. Certainly proceedings went after
Wright on feet of lead. The London and Globe
swindle looks almost as ancient now as Achan’s
prigging of the Babylonish garment.
,W. H. Carpenter, who helped King
O’Malley to represent Encounter Bay in the S.A.
Assembly, is now a prominent Labor leader in
Fremantle (W.A.), and a possible future M.L.A.
m that State. Carpenter is a good democrat,
but perhaps the dreariest speaker who ever bored
any S.A. Legislature—a body that has listened to
some of the saddest Methodists on earth.
Bitter pill for the respectable, pot-hatted
crowd that Senator Reid, “the worthy successor
to that splendid man, Mr. F. Sargood,” should
come to grief in a case of dishonesty, while Vic.
Labor Leader Bromley, “one of the undesirable
class,” should run his libel action against Brodsky,
°£ Table Talk, and come out with a clean
character and £5OO damages. It looks so bad !
What a healthy occupation is kinging 1
Queen Alexandra has gone on a visit to her father
the King of Denmark, who is still reigning gaily
at the age of 85. And even he isn’t the oldest of
European potentates. Adolphus, Duke of Luxem-
bourg (if he hasn’t died within the last few weeks
without The Bulletin noticing it), is 86. Frederick
Bill, of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, is close up with a
record of 83, and Francis Joseph of Austria is 73.
“F. ”: The deceased Colonel Thornton was
a restless being all his days. He was an Imperial
captain at Wynyard Square, Paddington and
Hobart. He jolted off as farmer ; turned stock
buyer; became grazier ; jolted again, and sought
a billet in the civil service; became coroner,
became police magistrate; and when he abandoned
these lines turned to land-speculating, house-
building, and even at 80 was ready to entertain
any new line of enterprise that promised well.
The death of “ Mint Sauce ” Jones (Vic.)
recalls an assault case in which he figured at
Fitzroy when M.L.A., in ’66. Writing for a
country newspaper, he said something disagree-
able about J. Dennistoun Woods, also a member
of the Assembly. Woods and De Courcy Ireland,
M.L.A., son of the Q.C., took on the job of
assaulting Jones. That large, voluble tailor fought
several rounds with very little luck, but he had
both Ireland and Woods fined at Fitzroy police
court.
The last instalment of the “National
Purse ” has just been clutched at by Seddon, and
in acknowledging it the modest man spoke for
two hours, concluding:
He had dropped across a few lines of Pope’s which he
thought described himself, and, though he seldom dropped
into poetry, he would repeat them :
“ Statesman, yet friend, to truth of soul sincere ;
In action faithful and in honor clear ;
Who broke no promise, served no private end ;
Who gained no title, and who lost no friend.”
Died in Adelaide last week A. T. Hodg-
son, aged 73, one of the oldest booksellers in
Australia. He was in business at Ballarat at the
time of the Eureka trouble ; was afterwards at
Castlemaine, and had been in S. A. for 20 years.
Reputed to be possessed of means, he lived
entirely by himself, slept under the counter of his
little shop, and was frugal to the verge of starva-
tion. Hair, face, and clothes seemed to have aged
to the same color, and he was seldom seen to speak
to anyone except a customer. He fainted one day
from weakness, was carried to the hospital and
died. He published a history of the Kelly gang,
many reciters and other cheap books.
The Kyabram “ reform ” members of Vic.
Assembly remain consistent to at least one portion
of the programme of that
remote village, which
was to get all the money
possible from the Govt,
for the country districts
at the expense of the
towns. Old-time depart-
mental trotters like Albert
’Arris and Craven have
been hopelessly beaten at
their own game by some
of the newcomers, notably
Max Hirsch and barrister
Mackey, who are to be seen
haunting the departmental
corridors at almost any hour
on any day of the week.
Hirsch, uninvited, attends
deputations from every elec-
torate fringing his own, so
as to “ safeguard the interests
of his constituents.” Barris-
ter Mackey’s principal elec-
tion speech was a power-
ful declamation against
the habit of sponging on
the Govt., mixed with
contemptuous references
to the “ Department-trotter.” Now, he hasn’t
time to trot: he has to canter from one depart-
ment to another so that he can beg from them
all before closing-time.
Millionaire Angas opened his pocket again
to the extent of £lOOO to encourage the wool-
department of the Adelaide School of Mines.
His gifts to local institutions total considerably
over £25,000, but no knighthood has yet come his
way, although his name has been sent along more
than once. This makes Brookman’s chance look
slimmer, for up to now his gifts have only reached
£15,000.
THE GOOD WORK.
REFORMED : “ Since you were here, three years
ago, I have become a changed man, and now
have plenty of coin in my pocket
REV. PUTITDOWN : “ I’m so glad to meet you.
’Spose you took the pledge? ”
REFORMED: “ Well, no; I heard you say there
was millions in the terrible drink traffic, so I
took the pub opposite.”
“0.C.C.”: Recently a visitor to the St.
Kilda (Vic.) cemetery was surprised to find the
following lines pencilled, in a woman’s handwrit-
ing, on one of the tablets to the memory of Adam
Lindsay Gordon:
Farewell, my dearest and most loved one,
Oh, calmly may you rest;
And sweet forgiveness may you find
Upon the Saviour’s breast!
The name “Marie” was appended. Who is
Marie, and what the romance she thus indicated ?
“ Bushie ” speaks irreverently of a great
man :
At Temora (N.S.W.), t’other day, heard the Owe’Sulli
van for the first time. Imagine a stodgy, common-place
person with a thick neck and a cropped head, and a voice
like a file on a wood-saw. That's the Owe ! His oratory
is of the argumentative type, and his argument is mostly
abuse of his opponents, whom he denounces as “ boun-
ders,” “ malicious liars,” “ calamity howlers,” “ misery-
mongers,” “ idiotic incapables,” etc. The Owe is forceful
and not very convincing, and as I listened I formed a
mental picture of what the Athenian “ bounder ” Oleon
was like.
Charles Pharazyn, who committed suicide
while in London, was one of Maoriland’s boss
landowners, and an absentee at that. Naturally
he was a virulent enemy of Liberal land laws, and,
according to him, the land and income tax did im-
mense harm to Maoriland by preventing the
accumulation of foreign debt in the land. Pharazyn
was an immense believer in foreign debt. Two
years ago he visited Maoriland, when heannounced
himself a convert to the Seddon policy, especially
its gory Imperialism. Ungenerous critics hinted
that the purchase by the Government at satis-
factory prices of some of the Pharazyn land had a
good deal to do with the “conversion.”
All Fools’ Day recalls a western practical
joke. “Benny” Lee, police-magistrate of
Bathurst, who at one time represented Maitland
in the Assembly, and once had a big “scrap ” on
the floor of the House with David Buchanan,
lived on the Vale-road. He was never popular,
and on one Fools’ Day his house was besieged by
vanmen, carriers’ and tradesmen’s carts of every
description. Some had come to remove Mr.
Lee’s effects to a new residence ; requisites of
almost every description were delivered, to the
bewilderment of the household ; even Sawyer, the
undertaker, was brought out in his best funeral
strut. “Giraffe” Taylor was then in Bathurst,
and got the credit of this casual mirthfulness.
Governor M‘Gregor, formerly of Papua,
retires from the colonial service
when his term at White Man’s
Grave (Lagos) expires. He never
had a rosy time. 111-health dogged
his youth, and when he dropped
medicine in Glasgow and entered
the Government service he only
got the jobs that men with high
social influence wouldn’t look at,
being himself a man with no
, N high social influence. He did
his best to get to Tasmania
after his 10 years in Papua,
but that chanceof renewing
his vigor was denied him.
He longed for a few years ,
in N.S.W. or even Queens-
land, but here again he was
refused, and he left the
purgatory of Papua for
the Sheol of Western
Africa. Still he has almost
managed to last out his
term and earn his pension.
Paris E. Nesbit (rapidly
becoming the portliest person
about Adelaide law courts) even
to his school fellows was known
as “Ted Nesbit, long and
lanky, thin and cianky.” Com-
missioner Russell, of S.A., was one
of those boys, and he and Nesbit
once collaborated in the writing of
a book of fairy tales, which was
never published. Next time the
two collaborated in a literary work
was to produce “ The Taxation
Regulations of South Australia ”
which were published and paid
better than the fairy tales.
There are more things than
politics to be ambitious about.
The Australian Storekeepers’
Journal proudly presents a likeness
of “Charlie May” as “the Henry
Irving of the softgoods trade in Aus-
tralia,” and informs readers that he
as just patented a new self-adjustable tie.
Dr. Bowker, who “ went over ” on Friday,
aged 88 years, was perhaps the oldest medical
practitioner in N.S.W., his London diploma being
dated 1836, sixty-seven years ago. He came to
Australia in the late Forties and settled at New-
castle, where he resided until 1873. In the
latter year he removed to Sydney. Dr. Bowker
was not a member of the first Parliament under
Responsible Government, as has been stated. He
was in the second Parliament, which assembled in
March, 1858, and was dissolved in April, 1859,
under the Electoral Reform Act. He remained
out of Parliament until 1877, when he represented
Newcastle; in 1887 he was appointed to the
Legislative Council. He was buried in the
little cemetery at Paterson, where also lie the
remains of Speaker Arnold, who was drowned in
the flood of 1875 while endeavoring to save six-
penn’orth of pumpkins. Dr. Bowker has left four
sons in the medical profession.
Some men are never satisfied, as these
extracts from a letter addressed to the editor of
The Bulletin by C. G. Gurr, of Adelaide, show :
Your item of news concerning myself has got such an
amount of inaccuracy crammed into it as to make it
worth preserving as the ’orrid example to set before
young reporters. (1) My first start in life was in the
office of Pasquin ; the solicitor’s office came later. (2) I
never left auctioneering to become a land agent. (3) Nor
a mining secretary. (4) Never returned to auctioneering
again. (5) The paper I edit is not named the Webkly
Record, but rejoices in the title of the Weekly News.
Finally the gross inaccuracy running over and dripping
from the four corners of the paragraph is the suggestion
that lam changeable in my occupations. For the past 21
years I have been in the same business in the same pre-
mises in the same street of the same city, which certainly
says something for my “ sticking ” qualities. ... I hope
to visit you and take you down at your favorite game of
bowls, say on the Waverley Green.
In reply whereunto the editor of The Bulletin
desires to say that he was never on Waverley
bowling green in his life, and doesn’t know a bowl
from a giraffe.
The late William Jones, of Footscray (Vic.),
having died intestate, an early claimant obtained
letters of administration, but had hardly got them
fixed up before another claimant began an action
to revoke the said letters. Whilst these two were
having it out with much profit to the legal sharks,
a third person transpired with a claim that he was
the only surviving cousin or something of the
deceased. Before a worried court could dis-
entangle this three-cornered confusion, the Eng-
lish mail arrived and announced a score or more
new claimants. The court, finding such a plenti-
ful crop of claimants without any undue publicity
being given outside, ordered that advertisements
should be inserted in papers all over the world,
logically opining that if no advertisement brought
scores of claimants, some advertisement would
bring some more. When the ten thousand new
claimants accrue from this, and have been in-
dividually and collectively proven first cousins to
deceased, the court will probably rule that the
costs are to come out of the estate, after which,
in all likelihood, there will be not much left to
argue about.


THREE STAR
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —ln the case of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
ON THE LAND.—LOOKING HIS DIFFICULTIES FULL IN THE FACE.
D- Harum ” : Re 00100 (21/3/’O3) on
horses that have died through swallowing sand,
knives, glass, scrap-iron, etc., have heard of such
things often, but never to the extent of Ooloo’s 75
pounds of miscellany. Once saw the skeleton of
a horse on the Wallaway Plains (S. A.). On the
ground where the stomach had rested were some
two dozen smooth pebbles which one was forced
to conclude the poor animal had swallowed some
time or other, for there were no other pebbles of
the kind anywhere around.
*** . *
“ W.F.H.” : Recently visited a Northern
cordial factory, where the men were unable to
bottle on account of the great number of bees and
ants which haunted the place. Proprietor stated
that the insects, being unable to find enough
nourishment owing to the drought, visited his
factory in myriads to devour his syrup. In many
cases the ravenous bees “ put away ” such a quan-
tity of syrup that they became too dazed to get
away, and could only “flop ’’ on the ground,
where the ants attacked them, tore them asunder,
and took them home in pieces for future con-
sumption.
Not only does the Australian squatter
discourage population by refusing to employ
people burdened with “encumbrances,” but he
also does his best in Western Queensland to starve
out the existing population of single shearers and
rouseabouts. At Milo station, near Adavale (Q.),
for example, all the shearing this year is. being
done by Young and Co., of Sydney, who import
all their men from Sydney. These imported men
are to get a run of sheds in a district where
hundreds of Queensland shearers and rouse-
abouts are living in a state verging on starvation.
* * • *
Australia has a few wet spots. Listen to
this :
Geraldton reports that the Johnstone River is in flood,
and, anticipating bad weather, the Kuranda, Gowrie,
and Ellen remained at the wharfs last night, but left
early this morning. The traffic between .Geraldton and
outside districts has been stopped owing to swollen
creeks. The rainfall for the past four days was 14 inches
29 points, and the total to date since the beginning of the
wet season is nearly 103 inches. It is still raining heavily.
• » • •
The loose-limbed person who keeps the
Drovers’ Rest will now be wise to have a
magnifying-glass under the bar. One day, not
long ago, he served a black brother in whom,
somewhere or other, as the result of an acci-
dent in a former generation, there was a fair
whitish streak. He was charged with supply-
ing an aborigine; but Judge Prynnge, now
says that, in acquitting him, the way-back “ beak ”
was, for once in a way, right. But perhaps, on
further consideration, the lord of the Drovers’
Rest needn’t buy the instrument before alluded
to. It might be enough if he hired one for a
time; for presently, when all the very old ones of
the tribes have died out, he will be fairly safe in
taking it for granted that all the rest have the
saving white streak somewhere. The present
decision gives the law against the liquoring of
aborigines a pretty hard blow ; in a few years, if
it stands, it will about knock it out altogether.
• • * *
Under the philanthropic guise of helping
the drought-stricken person out back, a section of
the squatter tribe conceives it a favorable oppor-
tunity to get some necessary work done on the
cheap— sweatingly cheap, that is. Two of them
empowered a Queanbeyan (N.S.W.), solicitor,
t’other day, to gather the local unemployed
together and offer them, with the humane inten-
tion of alleviating distress, scrub-cutting at from
ninepence to half-crown an acre !
• • • •
The last male aborigine of Tenterfield
(N.S.W.) district, who was locally known as
“ Jacky from the Mole,” died a lonely and miser-
able death on 9th March last. The body had
been lying four days in the gunyah when the
police visited the camp. “Why you not come
before ?” his gin reproached. She is crippled and
nearly blind, and the poor old thing had then
been two days without water. She is all that is
left of a once numerous tribe,
* * • •
“Shadow” on beer-drinking record (8.,
21/3/’03): In September, 1899, while in Dubbo
(N.S.W.), bet a prominent man in that town a
new hat he couldn’t drink 15 pints of beer in 15
ra i nu tes ; loser to pay for beer also. I lost. He
swallowed 16 in the stipulated time. Since then
I have found that drinking one pint per minute
has ceased to be a feat, and is merely an incident,
It may have been a record once, but once isn’t
often.
• * • •
“ Wiljar” : The flying-fox, as an orchard
pest, can probably give all others points and a
beating. A party of 30 shooters, raiding a camp-
ing-ground, west of Moruya (N.S.W.) recently
accounted for 2000, one cartridge often being re-
sponsible for as many as 15. Camp was in a large
gully, and foxes, suspended in masses from every
branch, covered an area of about a mile square,
[The Bulletin here clears its throat violently.]
THE WOMAN IN HER BLINDNESS.
SWAGGIE : “ Any chanst of a bit of medt, lady?"
LADY : “ Why, you're the same man as I gave a
piece of damper to a week ago; you can't tell
me you haven't had any work since?"
SWAGGIE : “So 'elp me, malm, I've only just been
able to leave the ’orspital."
“H.S." writes concerning aboriginal mas-
sage :
A black columnar smoke has suddenly shot skywards—
in a little while to be answered by a dozen others. It is
an aboriginal “ wireless telegraph,” bearing to the blacks
far and near the news of the stranding of a whale. This
means days and days of lusty gorging. Men, women,
children rally to the spot, to dig with their tomahawks
into the huge carcase, which is soon a human hive with
continuous streams of glistening bodies passing in and
out. In, to gorge anew, and out, to seek fresh air and
roll upon the ground.
After a few days the whole neighborhood smells
“high,” but still the gorge goes on, until “massage”
has to be resorted to ; the blacks rolling each other over
and over, and kneading each other’s distended stomachs
with all their power. I have seen men, possessed of three
or four wives, stretched flat on their backs whilst their
spouses played “ follow my leader ” over hubby’s body
until relief came, and enabled him to once more tackle
the feast. The same man is often robustly massaged
many times over before the great “larder” has become
too gatney.
Astounding what an amount of solid food a blackfellow
can Btuff into him. I have known a hungry nig to con-
sume a turkey of about ten pounds weight, entrails and
all—leaving only the feathers.
* • * •
“ Amiens ” : The grasshopper-plague in
the Green Ponds (Tas.) district is so bad that in
many places along the Jordan there is scarcely a
vestige of grass. The insects eat off the tops of
turnips and other root crops, and, where the roots
are exposed, eat right down into these also. Fowls
get a fine feed, but the eggs of the grasshopper-
eating fowl become too strong to be pleasant. The
only check to the pest is when the wet weather
drowns out the young.
• • * *
The very latest idea in rain-production,
put forward in the daily papers, is to send up
balloons and scatter fine dust on the clouds,
thereby starting the process of condensation.
Well, any of the drought centres from Hay to
Hungerford will supply the dust, if the man with
the idea will supply the balloon and the clouds.
He had been a red-headed jackaroo but
had evoluted to a perfect “ wayback ” and
attained management of a small sta-
tion. Later on he was made a J.P.,
and, having been duly sworn-in,
swaggered about town rejoicing in his
new dignity. Very, very anxious
was he to “sit on” somebody—but
no luck —not even a drunken carrier
in town. Presently Bullocky Jack
came along, and, taking out a sove-
reign, the J.P. said : “ Here, take
this, and get yourself run in. I’ll
pay the fine.” Half-an-hour
afterwards the new magistrate
sentenced Jack for “drunk and
disorderly ” to two hours in the
lock-up or two bob fine. “I’ll
pay it for you this time, my
man ; but you must be more
careful in future.” That night
Bullocky Jack slept the sleep of
the really drunk, and a pleased
and proud J.P. wrote to his
people about the arduous duties
he had to perform as magistrate.
Mallee and Wimmera fanners still keep
finding by sad experience, that sending their
horses down south, even on a free pass, was
not altogether the bunch of violets they expected
it would be. To the men from the drought and
sand all grass looked like life, and horses were
hurried on to unsuitable pasture in sheep and
cattle country with disastrous results. One man
took down a team of eight, expecting to have
them in good condition for the cropping season,
The then value of the team was £l6O. He
recently returned with the remnants—three en-
feebled beasts (about £3O worth). Ihe others are
atnaas
horse had grown accustomed toother diet, and,
when he was grassed recklessly, the shock was too
much for him.
* • * *
Extract from a letter written by a selector’s
wife, who was applying to the authorities for
relief under the Advances to Settlers Act :-
I have in family 4 dairy cows,2 pigs, I horse, 2children.
All these by my first husband. 2 Goats in full milk and a
baby by my second husband. All of these animals was
lost in the fire.
“ Back-Pew ” : The yarn (8.,
June 14) of the good Melbourne
maiden-lady who didn’t know what
“tight” meant recalls another,
handicapped by being nearly
true. To work among the
foreign portion of his flock,
a very stern and pious
R.O. bishop of an in-
land N.S.W. diocese
imported aßussian
priest trained in
10 languages at
Rome. Hi s
English he
had got from
text books,
and soknew
no slang and
few collo-
quialisms.
Now it hap-
pened that
when he ar-
rived he was
put under the
wing of a senior
priest, a rollick-
ing Irishman,
who complained
that the polyglot’s
language was too
starched for back-
country use in sum-
mer, and so under-
took to teach him
English as the Austra-
lian talks it. And as he
reckoned that about the first (and the second and
all through till the last) job he would be put
on to, would be to collect funds for “the poor
sisters” and “ the little orphans” and the others,
they began with money—“ s quid,” “ half-a-quid,”
“ caser/’ “ sprat,” and the rest. The Polyglot was
sent out after coin in the next few days; and when
he counted it up before his Lordship that night, that
stern and pious father was horrified to be told
that his new priest had got “a quid from Mr.
Patrick Maloney,” and a “ rock ” from somebody
else, and so on right down to Mrs. M‘Sweeney’s
children, who had sent a sprat apiece for the
little “sisters.” There was a transfer from that
parish soon afterwards.
* * * *
Commenting on the fact that out of one
shipment of pigs from Sydney nine suffered
from pneumonia, and the rest had “dread-
ful bad coughs,” a Bellinger (N.S.W.) magis-
trate remarked, Wednesday before last, on
the remarkable fact that “although there was
a large staff of salaried inspectors in Sydney,
such a number of palpably diseased pigs
should have been allowed to pass through the
saleyards.” That recalls the case in which a
Sydney butcher, on being asked to give his
opinion upon a lot of meat seized by an inspector,
said, “So far as I can judge this meat” is
certainly not fit for human food; but I don’t
see anything to prevent its being used for making
sausages.” Beyond doubt the present system
of inspecting meat is almost useless. Putting
a mark on a condemned carcase is not enough, as
a venturesome tradesman could still sell “prime
joints ” off it and throw the mark in as an un-
charged-for “extra.” In the country many per-
sons still do what is termed a “ killing business ”
in more senses than one. “Why didn’t your
father send over that side of bacon that he pro-
mised ?” asked a Western “cookie” as he met his
neighbor’s son. ‘‘Oh ! ” was the artless reply,
“dad isn’t goin’ to kill that pig he spoke about
now. It’s gettin’ better, an’ Mr. Mooney, th’
hoss doctor, says it didn’t have cancer at all. But
there’s another cove lookin’ a bit multy, so I
s’pose he’ll kill it.”
DEATH OF THE SLAVE.
The last, the only one.
The various Government departments of
Queensland are badly affected by public
, , , . wrir m
weariness, but nature in P
seems to have plenty of superfluous energj, i-
Bowen railway (closed a month ago because the
Department was too tired to connect it with the
northern railway or to make any special effort to
J . . , ' suffered
foster settlement near it), has are y
from a cyclone, which unroofed most of the sta-
tion buildings, and a flood which washed away a
portion of the formation and deposited thousands
-—<* **••*•** * ***+ :****s
the caretaker left in sole charge will be un
remove during the remainder of his natural life,
Owing to the tropical weather experienced during
the month the grass is already high enough to
preV ent the caretaker’s trolly from travelling, and
gQj-ul) jg growing on the track to a height of seven
actual meaBuremeut . if this has happened
. ~ . . •„ , • „ „„„ r when
in a month, what will happen m a yea
bush fires, white ants, and other destructive
agencies take a hand in the game 1
"HOOSHTAH!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was at a Goldfields Mission,
In the land of Sand and Sin,
That a wandering apostle
Asked the Groper miners in,
And each pagan, as he entered,
Wore a deprecating grin.
Notwithstanding their reluctance
And their “ Oome-t’-look-on ” air,
They all listened, with attention,
To the parson’s lengthy prayer.
And they mixed up the responses
In a way that made him glare.
The proceedings went so gaily
That M’Ginn said he could feel
“Sorter saved f’r ever feelin’ 1”
Over him begin to steal.
But he withered when the parson
Said : “ Dear friends, now we will kneel! ”
In the pub. they never did it,
And it put them ill at ease
To be asked, in tones so solemn,
Just to go down on their knees ;
And the parson, as he waited,
Waved his wipe and feigned to sneeze.
Second after weary second
Ticked away, but still they stood,
Like sheep waiting for a leader,
And that parson, kind and good,
Gazed expectantly around him,
With a smile that was of wood.
Of a sudden, ’midst that awful
Breathless stillness of the dead,
Came the voice of Camel Hogan,
As he slightly raised his head,
“ Can’t ye divils understand there ?
“ Hooshtah —hooshtah !” Hogan said.
Then these pagans there assembled,
Heeding not the parson’s frown,
When they heard that camel order,
Which is Afghan for “ kneel down 1”
Sank to worship their Creator,
With a thud that woke the town.
KODAK.


EBOS
Used at table and in cooking, Cerebos Salt is
not only dainty and economical, but it makes all
the food more strengthening; because it con-
tains the Bran Phosphates (absent from White
Bread) out of which Nature forms Nerve and
Brain, Bones and Teeth, and Healthy Body.
From Grocers and Stores
Wholesale Agents Harrison & Attvrood, Sydney.
Bamboo Bracelets
Australian Gold
Australian Work
Australian Skill
S
m
We are now showing the line illus-
trated above, in Solid 15ct. Gold, at
63/-. They are exceptional value.
15ct. Gold Batnboo Bracelets, 56/-, 63/-, 85 -
SMALLER AND LARGER SIZES AT PROPORTIONATE PRICES.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash |
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery House In Australia,
23 HUNTER STREET.
A select circle of old-timers,
t’other siders, and assorted liars, was
discussing the drought in a Boulder
bar (W.A.) when Pigweed Jimmy
rose with his tenth beer in his hand
and spoke: “Yes, ez you chaps sez,
this drought is pooty bad, but it’s
nothin’ to th’ drought as kem along
when I was drovin’ a flock o’ sheep
for ole Tim Crossland. They was
feedin’ on pig-weed roots, as they
alius holds a little moisture. But
bimeby th’ bloomin’ jura bucks gets
cunnin’, and’ goes a nosin’ round on
their own. One day, when they’d been
tearin’ up th’ weeds I sees the’ color o’
th’ yaller stuff, but before I could get
inter Coolgardie to sell th’ sheep th’
talent got the ‘ office ’ an’ rushed the
ground. I sold th’ sheep—a new
chum buys th’ lot. A couple o’ days
after that I was down at Bayley’s,
an’ I sees this cove humpin’ a lot o’
sheep’s ’eads in a bag. 4 Ullo ! ’ sez
I, 4 wot’s the game now ? 4 Oh,’ sez
the boss o’ th’ crushin’ machine, who
was standin’ by, 4 we’re crushin’
sheep’s ’eads for this ’ere gent, an’ an
all right sort o’ game it is, too.’
‘As how?’ says I. 4 As this way,’
sez ’e. 4 Them sheep was drivin’
across good gold-bearin’ country, an’
in rootin’ up th’ pig-weed they gits
their teeth filled with fine gold. Th’
last lot we crushed went soz. to th’
’ead. ‘Well, I’m d d!’ sez I.
‘Like enough,’ sez ’e,’ ‘anyone
oughter be d d fer lettin’ such a
good thing go by them.’ ”
• • * *
“ What I like about the ‘ Wild
Colonial Boy,’” says a well-known
commercial traveller, “is his don’t
care-a-damn-ness. Driving along up
north lately, I stopped at a cottage
door to inquire about the road ahead.
A small baby orawled out from some-
where and began to play 4 London
Bridge’ under my horse’s legs. The
horse didn’t mind it at first, but finally,
when the child had tangled itself up with
its hoofs a couple of times, began to look
round to see what was the matter. Then
it started stamping to shake the flies off,
and, getting scared, I called out to a ragged
10-year-old boy at the cottage door to take the
little one away before it got hurt. The lad never
budged an inch, but, swaying carelessly against
the wall, drawled out: 1 Take the blanky kid
away yuself. It don’t b’long to us !’ I took it
away.”
* * * 9
A Queensland publican has two daughters
—one of them a cripple ; and not long ago a young
fellow who was “struck” on the other sister
tackled the old man on the subject. Suitor : “ I
want to marry your daughter. Will you give her
tome?” Oldman: “I will, Jack. She’s a fine
girl is Sarah, and will make a good wife.”
Suitor: “ But it isn’t Sarah I want. She’s a
cripple !” Old Man : “ Hang it, man, what does
that matter ? You don’t want her for racing pur-
poses, do you ?”
AT THE SIGN OF THE “ KING’S HEAD”
SALE OF STAMPS AT HOTELS.
The Rev. J. H. Cain moved, at the recent sittings of the Methodist Conference, “That this
conference regrets to find that licenses for the sale of stamps have been issued to hotels licensed
for the sale of alcoholic liquors, and believing that such action is against the best interests of
the community, and will lead many into needless temptation, urges the Commonwealth postal
authorities to cancel as soon as possible those licenses already issued, and not to issue any more
in the future.”— Melbourne ARGUS.
MODERN METRODIST DANIEL : “ Young man, beware! This is no innocent pub
where they sell merely the harmless, necessary booze. In an unguarded
moment you may be tempted to buy the soul-damning postage stamp; and,
moreover, the female with whom you are now communing may be a — a — a — a
post-mistress.”
“ Glenara” : The Yic. cockie is a curious
animal. He will buy £2OO or £3OO worth of
machinery, but he won’t spend £lO on a shed to
cover it while it is idle. He will erect miles of
good substantial fence, but a couple of saplings
and a bit of acacia-brush have to serve for a gate.
He will practically ruin a £2O horse by feeding
him on straw ehaiff in order to save a few pounds’
worth of hay and oats. And lie will go to a sale
for the sake of the free drinks and buy a cart-load
of rubbish not worth carrying home.
MIS, ANNETTE KELLERMANN, AUSTRALIA’S
CHAMPION LADY SWIMMER.
Photo, by the Swiss Studios, Sydney and Melbourne.
In the 60’s, the Victorian Government
offered a reward for the discovery of a satisfactory
snake-poison antidote, and allowed dogs to be
experimented on in Melbourne gaol. A confident
swagman came along from Queensland and had a
trial. It was found that a bitten dog let alone
lived 45 minutes ; if the swagman’s antidote was
applied it died in 20 minutes. The nostrum was
compounded of decomposed snakes’ bodies !
• • * •
It has been found by experience that the
N.S.W. coast farmers are too tired to go to the
State experimental farms to pick up wrinkles, so
the new plan is being tried of carrying the
wrinkles round to the farms—the officers are to
go on circuit and pump in information where they
can.
* * * *
Be drought losses. In 1898 the Leichhardt
East'Marsupial Board (Dawson River, Q.) levied
taxes on 203,000 head of horses and cattle. This
year the number is under 43,000.
“ Deeby ” :
I claim to be the
first to remark
(at least in print)
how singularly
deficient is the
Australian far-
mer in common
hospitality. The
present genera-
tion of country
Australians are
as sordid and
miserly as their
fathers were
generous and
open - handed.
These remarks
are based on a
wide experience
gained before the
drought set in.
A more deplor-
able trait of the
average farmer
is hi 3 ignorance
and filthy habits.
In very few
farm-houses will
a bath be found,
such a thing
being regarded
by the cockie as
one of the super-
fluous luxuries of
the “ toff.” This
remark applies
even to localities
where water is
abundant. I was
once sitting in a
farmer’s eating-
room. It was a
hot evening, and
all were perspir-
ing. “Phew!
what a smell!” remarked pater-familias, jocu-
larly. Said a girl of 16, “It’s Annie—she’s jest
took’er boots orf.” Annie was a girl of 18, but
she heard the remark quite unconcernedly.
* « * .
A Rockhampton (Q.) authority, speaking
on the question of water supply, estimates that
there are 200,000 dead cattle in the Fitzroy River.
That doesn’t make the Fitzroy much of a prospect
to fall back upon in the event of a water shortage
whatever it may be worth as soup.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
If o notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Merino: “The Road to Hell is Sheep” ap-
peared under a sketch by Mahony, Oct. 27,1900.... J.
Sprens : Many thanks R. F. D. Morgan : “ The First
Time” is the sort of thing we hate to reject, but it is
quite impossible in present form... .C.J.K. : Tinpot
Tragedy ” good, but not good enough H.C. : “ A la
Cinque valli ” too beery about the legs.. ..B.C.J. : Wragge
yarn not sufficiently funny Civil Engineer: Don’t
think it possible to store sufficient water to make your
canal scheme a success. Anyhow, a good Protective
tariff of from 50 to 75 per cent, will make this country a
prosperous manufacturing community at a very trifling
cost. Your scheme would only make us a somewhat
larger producer of raw material at the cost of
hundreds of millions. It's like a man paying £lOO
for a billet as street-sweeper when he can be Australian
Premier for the asking.. .Australian(S’Africa): Thanks...
Spondulix : Your theories about the inevitableness of the
N.S.W. public debt are sheer rot. N.S.W. has up to now
received a trifle over £50,000,000 of land revenue. If the
State had been content to pay the ordinary expenses of
Government out of taxation, as quite a number of coun-
tries do, that money would have supplied the means to
build all the State-owned public works now existing or to
extinguish the debt incurred in building them. The
revenue derived from public works (which wouldn’t then
be absorbed by interest) would be in the nature of com-
pound interest on this £50,000,000, and this compound
interest process would have supplied a sum equal to the
whole present debt. A long-continued disinclination to
pay taxes was all the trouble Dugald Mac. : “ Man-
ton” is not quite well enough done.. ..Eliphalet: Treat-
ment hardly strong enough... .Jerusha : A well-written
nothing! Peter Simple : Moderate merit Don’t
care for so much dialect Grace E.B. : Not bad ; will be
considered Razorback : Has nothing to lift it out of
the ruck Outtaburra : Not story enough in it
Myhyldah : Very poor stuff.... Ozoli: Doesn’t rise to the
requisite height of tragedy. .Cranberry : Too reminiscent
of Banjo Paterson L.S. :“ B for’’—hackneyed idea
E.W. : Fully approve of your kissing the cook C.D. :
‘ ‘ Kendal ” not up.... Brunswick : Dunno.... The Bluey :
Cow poem hopeless. No stamp received Kodak:
“ Misunderstood ” flat. “ Hooshtah ” will do R.S. :
“ Night we Fired the Shed ” is a very jagged combina-
tion of metres.. ..Bill: The Bohemians writer know's are
mostly a joyless mixture of backbiting and beer
P.Q.R. : Well written, but only a very, very old story re-
told... .G. E.B. : Interesting in a mild way 0n1y... .M.B. :
“ Morality and Equality ” reads like a feeble descendant
of Bunyan’s “ Pilgrim’s Progrees.”... .B.S. : Two sets of
verses accepted. Don’t care for “Casual Bard.” “Wreck”
too gruesome. When a yarn puts the financial
editor off his lunch it is always rejected
Ahau : May condense and use Marathon : Neither is
nearly good enough Caro: Don’t care for “Joy that
Failed.”... .D.F.E. : Has no organic unity. Any part of
it might be omitted without injury to the rest—in fact,
the whole story might be left out Mimi: Not strong
enough on its legs... Hal B. : Begins with a howl and
ends with a splutter Dodo : Merely chopped up prose.
Blank verse isn’t so darned easy to w rite as it looks
Aitchpee : Rather gracefully written, but too slight of
interest... .Caro : If you will re-write “Archie” more
legibly it should have a chance Nomad : Well written,
but somewhat too long-drawn and formal, and the
“ situation ” is old Hugo : No use for great masses of
statistics about things at the far end of the globe
Milesian : You write far better prose than you do poetry :
let it rest at that Harold S. (Canada) ; Of no interest
to u 5.... J.W.D. : Solemn as a wet tombstone Gordon :
On that subject the less said the better.,..6 x 8: A
Vienna yarn doesn’t come within our field Mac : Your
“ Thoughts of Home ” reached us with twopence de-
ficient postage to pay, and were looked at with a soured
mind.. ..A.M. : Your story loses all its charm when
“ blime ” is struck out of it Kiwi: We’re tired of the
subject.. ..Judas : Mechanical sarcasm... .Grocer’s Assis-
tant : The Chinese question is apart from the wages
question. There should be good wages and no Chinese.
The assistants may calculate with certainty that if the
Chow gets a good footing in the trade it will be bad for
them.. ..H.N. (London) : We don’t take “ weekly letters ”
from anywhere—least of all from London. We don’t
print “ syndicate ” matter. If you’d read the papers you
send yourjproposals to you’d save something in postage
....“One on the Land”: Poem on Rev. Dill Macky
firmly declined : we’re not going to throw poems about
in a riotous manner Unsuitable: F.C.E., Lotram
Denis Diogenes : Your pen-name is the only thing worth
publishing in your poem.. ..M.D.L. : No interest in Boer
war atrocities now F.A.B. :If you take 100 p.c. off an
article’s price of course you make the price nil. But a
military education doesn’t lead to arithmetical accuracy :
there’s generally the habit of reporting “tremendous
loss by the enemy ” when one man and a cow have been
killed.... Jag : He was right. With proper Protection to
keep Australian work for Australian people, the faster
the Australians increase and multiply the better
Percy R. A. : Give us something distinctively Australian
—not an echo of a European writer’s pathoa on the fisher-
man’s life T.T. : “Radium” reads like a snake-yarn at
present; you can’t get something out of nothing, and it
seems as if that were claimed for the new metal....
A.M.B.R. : Accepted. Excellent verse X.O. : If the
Boer War bill had been divided round the whole empire
according to population Australia’s share would have
been, roughly, one-seventieth—say £4,000,000. If it had
been divided among the empire’s white population Aus-
tralia would have struck against a bill of about
£25,000,000. Therefore, as you say, it isn’t advisable to
go in for any reckless humping of the empire’s burdens..
Cheetah : But why sympathise with the sly-grog shanty.
It is nearly as disreputable as the pious soft-goodsman’s
faked invoices Chips: Doesn’t get there Great
Eastern : That dictionary definition is absurdly inade-
quate. When Shakespeare represents a clock as striking
in “ Julius Caesar,” it is an “ anachronism ” —there were
no striking clocks in those days. To charge Lynch in
1903 with being instigated by the Devil to treasonably
war against'the Sovereign was an “ anachronism ” because
the Devil died at least 100 years ago.
“Top”: Have been told by a skipper of
20 years’ coasting experience that the Cardinal’s
Palace at Manly (Sydney), when lighted up at
night, is a considerable source of danger to
mariners marking for Port Jackson. The South
Head light does not show far on a drizzly or hazy
night, which makes it necessary to keep near the
land. On such nights bands or strata of haze, of
varying density, are continually passing, the light
from his Eminence’s humble but cheerful home
showing at intervals between these successive
bands, and giving the impression of a revolving
light; also the tower looks not unlike a lighthouse.
One night not long ago the haze lifted just in time
to prevent my captain running his vessel ashore
beneath the Cardinal’s modest and secluded
humpy.
Miss Annette Kellermann, now appearing
at Melbourne Aquarium as a mermaid in a tank,
may take credit for having introduced swimming-
culture to the local feminines. In Sydney she had
the title of champion lady swimmer and diver; in
Melbourne, where the ordinary girls’ notion of
water-exercises is confined to “bobbing up and
down like this,” Miss K. begins to be known as a
revelation. She gave her first show at Brighton
some three months ago, and since then she has
astonished the natives with her performances at
sundry aquatic carnivals. Hence the engagement
of interesting Annette (and her small brother) by
the Melb. Exhibition trustees. The trustees are
supposed to constitute an Educational Entertain-
ment department, and the mermaid in the tank is
about the most attractive object lesson they have
ever submitted to notice during their long career
of un-usefulness.
Said that the Krupp (Germany) libel pro-
ceedings against the Berlin socialist paper
Vorwarts were dropped because its editor had
absolute proof from the Prussian income-tax
records that, during the last two years of his life,
Krupp had loaned the Kaiser 100,000,000 marks.
Another hard-up king.
The annual appeal now being made
throughout all parts of the Commonwealth for
the British and Foreign Bible Society, recalls the
fact that this society, now so keen after the
widow’s mite and the tradesmen’s copper, was
able to spend £2365 on an elaborately got-up and
bejewelled Bible to present to Edward VII. on
his Coronation last year. The writer used to
subscribe to this society, feeling that a few tracts
for the heathen might be beneficial, and at the
least might serve as curl-papers for Mrs.
Heathen’s hair, but, after this exhibition of ser-
vile extravagance, never again !
An obscure English vicar, Rev. W. Nixon,
of Robert Town, Yorkshire, has suddenly thrust
himself under the notice of a scandalized world
by writing, in his parish magazine, of the deified
Dr. Parker, of London City Temple, like this :
“ Dr. Parker is supposed, by most people, to have died
the death common to all men, but if we are to believe the
inscription that his admiring friends placed on his coffin
iio such thing as death took place in his case. The
inscription reads thus: ‘Joseph Parker, D.D., Minister
of the City Temple, born 9th April, 1830, ascended 28th
November, 1902.’ Henceforth, therefore, 28th November
will be a red-letter day in the calendar. It will be
marked as the day of the Ascension of Dr. Parker.
The Ascension of our Lord Jesus Christ will have a rival
in that of Dr. Parker. Indeed, Dr. Parker’s ascension
will, in a way, put Christ’s quite into the shade, because
whilst Christ both died and was buried, Dr. Parker
apparently escaped those degradations, and went straight
to heaven. What was put in the coffin, or what use
there was for a coffin at all in this case, or why even a
formal funeral service was gone through, we are at a loss
to know. The whole thing seems most absurd and
irreverent.”^
THE LATE REV. CHARLES CLARKE.
Photo, by Eden George, Sydney.
The late Charles Clarke was a handsome
apostle of 35 when he broke away from pulpit
restraints and took to lecturing around Austra-
lasia on his own. Perhaps he lived to regret that
R. S. Smythe had enticed him away from his
Baptist flock in Melbourne. Physically a strong
man, Rev. Clarke might have enjoyed a plump
stipend and all the comforts of salvation for
another 20 years had he laid strictly to his
Book. A parson of his constitution can endure
comfortably through a long old age; but Clarke,
the lecturer, was cut down by a stroke of
paralysis at 65.
“ Cripps Clarke ” has a theory :
Some good may result from the Victorian Lands Office
scandal if the moral thereof is applied. Since the woeful
day when I “ settled on the land ” under a sheet of bark,
much study of the land administration of N.S.W.
has made me a strong advocate for one or other of the
following innovations: (1) Minister for Lands to be a
stone-deaf, dumb and blind bachelor, with no relations,
and a salary of £lO,OOO per annum. (2) Frankly admit
the enormous possibilities of the billet by calling tenders
for the privilege of filling it; highest tenderer not to be
harrassed by Royal Commissions of Inquiry. (3) Run
the show with three commissioners, free of political
influence. It is more difficult to “ approach ” three men
than one, and to lessen the chance of the commissioners
agreeing too readily to extensions of leases, exchanges,
withdrawals from selection and other blocks to settle-
ment, the trio should be carefully assorted. A promising
start might be made by the appointment, say, of Cardinal
Moran, Dill Macky and Jos. Symes ; then, whatever per-
suasion an applicant belonged to, his application would
stand a fair chance of being dealt with solely upon its
merits. Any little unpleasantness that might arise
during discussion could be smoothed out by the appoint-
ment of John Norton as honorary referee, with power to
swear at all three Ministers.


\U\Y|be<i on
V
-«<M OVw»7
Wr
s vP^^ncc
fell's
Hfa l W°\ CU««Y
~jjkbpWir io liquor \
- JynJ>roV*l>rle«i
<!^)'^ <^r ~"
~E 4>oVe Wl || /jjAlfolly
lt] q u k op»t7|Oji n(£
Of Hie OC <*f /
X if casM/
r^Z/k^* edic't'" d 1 i
H *ll
"m e decline °[ unWorlfy
oj- %< jj</l*ble fimf
hlo W&S °h *>?/
Sf>rte on -ffc pa/T oj- ifc
C nr] s
1+ h'i» .
If , s De^
Should € *>
on f^“ /
‘ A r S u * *lm 3o
£o*s 5 bcer
/ (obiff 'fVfceT>W'e Asv W T’e®"
-fc wy i xi ' f r
Mcrifcr (projected viyf of
G H Reid _ „
if if 5 'ShSJs^'
Ase
Ou»* crilu.} "?clo-
/&wzXi<L*\\f If AWl\
is soWerrf why
d<ws she confinue
di “borrow
lt|< SA"7<?
Would copdcnni « vcr yj
Vie, "bujiwss Concern i
m 'ftje World .
Brown
rrje
v
d/e you ha/d nf> • J
' Mor in fe lev*-/ |
l^'rnHy
do show' ' v+
solvency
" yes, yoa qvji'lg. «-
+M injtfe Bill ngW^gJ.
en-foKcc •’! i jr i -t- n ****•
frwXtev £<>V A^' 2 ° Pe h
i„ 'ttjr
Ckwfmvi % Atos
now
Aqc wl 7°"7
? ,K>
of Indies
3enc/ol^n'^^ ) ° C - W <V)
-to
'TV cr/cc njore n? •j * <= H^e
worf^s !!,
Oor or job good -joV^too^
IN VICTORIA AND ADJACENT PARTS.


filS WAR-HORSE : Down to one
straw per day
G.O.C. ; "'Tention, brigade! Present arms f”
Chorus op Warbiors : “Very sorry, sir, but we ain’t got any
arms to present. Govt, can’t afford ib"
y
JUST BEFORE • (SHAM) BATTLE.
He studied a plan of the «iem/s fort, then soaped bi*
moustaches in sorrow, with laundry soap of the cheapen ■
sort, and bitterly thought of the morrow.
HIS ONLY PAIR-
Sham battle conducted on economical lines. The Govt,
appropriation will not run to powder this year.
A PLAIN-CLOTHES CHURCH
PARADE.
AN EASTER ENCAMPMENT, CONDUCTED ON RETRENCHMENT LINES.


A. SAUNDERS
FOR HANDSOME AND USEFUL PRESENTS- WATCHES, CLOCKS?
JEWELLERY, SILYERPLATE, LEATHER, AND OPTICAL GOODS.
A. SAUNDERS.
.hire Solid Silver TOILET SET, Square Cut Glasses, Chased and
Ornamented Silver. Large Size, as above pattern, £4 ;
size smaller, in Round Glassware, £2 10s. Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ First-class Pure Silver PURSE, beautifully Chased and
Embossed, Bin. x 2in., £2 6s ; large size, 4Jin. x 2in., £3 3s.
In Silk-lined Case.
A. SATIN'D EES.
No. S9l.—Highest Quality Two Pure Solid Silver
BEUSH, COMB, and MIRKOB, in Silk and Leather
Case, Double Catch, £5 10s. Handsome Present.
O to N OON & 3YOHET.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHILD'S SET, A 1 Quality, Pure Silver on White Metal, 255.
Other Similar Styles, 3 Pieces, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
All in Silk-lined Cases.
A. S ' TINDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 30s.
A Handsome First-class Article.
•><£,'.r'i'
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS, Pure Silver-mounter),
Fancy Cut Glass, in Silk-lined Case, las 6d ;
White Cut Glass, 21s.
sag
9PK
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver CLOTH or HAT BRUSH,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
ii r
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s SHAVING SET, Pure Solid Silver,
40s, 50s, £3. £3 10s. A Nice Present.
SIO7.—COMB, Puie Silver-mounted,
Real Tortoiseshell, 20s.
Similar, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver
THIMBLES,
Gold-mounted, 4s 6d.
Other Styles,
Is 6d, 2s 6d, and Ss 6d.
A. SAUNDER 3.
Ladies'
HAIR BRUSH.
Pure Silver, Chased,
20s, 255, 30s.
Splendid Value.
Cheaper Lines,
10s and 12s 6d.
HAT PINS, Any Initial.
Pure Solid Silver, Is 6d ;
Stone Set, 3s 6d, 4s 6d.
Pure Silver-mounted KNIBE BESTS,
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d ;
Large size, 21s.
v^v
&
%
C '
/'v'V,t
9iD
&
/?<•■
WA
4asr<
/»>y
Sk
V-
®KKB
<-0
ej ?-r\>o
oor.t
•ik
as
si
S'.',;:
»s•>;
xfj«.
'■m
"J
'ifess
OTc 1
>rK
'■'s^y!'.^>
'■'ti-
iCf
<:■>
m
:/.<
ill
S*£
0*
S?W
M
ssjsss
.£•
mmi/]
iT.ii rtf a
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies' First-class Pure Solid Silver TOILET SET (18 pieces), in Beautiful
Silk-lined Case, Handsomely Chased and Ornamented, £l5 10s.
Post Free to any part of the Commonwealth.
it H
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver
EAU DE COLOGNE,
Full Size, 22s 6d ;
large size, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Six Silver-plated on Hard White Metal
SERVIETTE RINGS, in Oise, 17s 6d.
A 1 duality, by James Dixon, London.
CAKE or DESSERT KNIVES and FORKS, Handsomely Carved Ivory
Handles, in Silk and Velvet-lined Case, JE4 10s. A Handsome Present.
Six FORKS only, l*2s 6d, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’or GeEi .’s Travelling DRESSING CASE, in Morocco or Russian
Leather, Nicely Lined, 30s. Similar Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, £2, £5.
Gent.’s WAL-LET and POCKET BOOK. AH Improvements, Silver-mounted,
as above. 10s 6d ; with extra 6hield, 12s 6d. Initials Nicely Chased, Is Extra.
Other Styles, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s, A Nice Present.
Ladies’ Pure Silver CAKDCA SE, Chased and Embossed,
in Silk-lined Case, 255, with MonogTam.
C. —Two JAM and Two BUTTER, Beautifully (Phased,
Pure Silver Electro-plated on White Metal, First-class Quality,
15s, 20s, 255, 80s, 355, 40s ; 2 only, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s
All in silk-lined cases.
om
cm
JsMi
m
.Q.
a
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Solid Silver Top White Cut Glass PUFF BOXES,
10s, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SACNDERS.
CHILD’S CUP, Pure Silver-
mounted and Nursery Rhyme,
10s 6d. Post Free. #
!i Pi, X. : %:■
itOdMtig
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies - PURSE and CARDCASE,
Crocodile Leather,
Silver-mounted, 5s 6d ;
with Shield Centre, 7s 61.
Pure Silver-mounted Lizard Skin
PURSE, 7s 6d, 12s 6d, and 15s.
Two Gent.’a Solid Silver HAIR BRUSHES
and COMB,
Bilk-lined Case, £3, £3 10s.
n
MBS
M -
■
as
;■
.
vx
Ik
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies' Latest PURSE and "WALLET,
with Strap, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Jlnnr v .TllOP^
A. SATJNDKRS. _ .
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver, chased, 7& 6d. The Very Latest and Newest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted
PIN CUSHION,
7s 6d.
Pure Silver-mounted
Ladies’ COMPANION. 18s 6d
smaller, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
809, 811, 813, 815. 817 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
NEARLY OPPOSITE FMI.WAy STATION.


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the sk in
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, oi
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. 1 don't say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured
Send atonce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. AiI.LIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
fair Girls and Gray Boms
Ulitb
Other Uerses
By WILL H. OGILVIE.
Partial List of Contents
Fair Girls and Gray Horses
The Township Lights
When Horses are Saddled
for Love
Ilis Gippsland Girl
In Mulga Town
Where the Brumbies Come
for Water
From the Gulf
The Riding of the Rebel
Four-in-Hand
The Stockyard Liar
The Coach of Death
Off the Grass
The Dingo of Brigalow Gap
How the Chestnut Horse
Came Home
A Draft from Tringadee
Taken Over
The Station Brand
The Man who Steadies the
Lead
Out of the Chains
How the Fire Queen crossed
the Swamp
The Near-side Leader
How We Won the Ribbon
Northward to the Sheds
At the Back of Bourke
A Scotch Night
The March of the Flood
“ The Men Who Blazed the
Track ! ”
Abandoned Selections
Auld Lang Syne
Black Sheep
The Wallaby Track
Rainbows and Witches
To a Bunch of Heather
The Bush, My Lover
The Graves out West
Bowmont Water
The Land of Dumb Despair
To the Overlander j
“ The Most Charming Book of A ustralia n Verse. ’ ’
Handsomely bound in purple cloth, gilt top, with portrait; price, 55., postage, sd. %* Admirable
for presentation. From all booksellers ; or forwarded on receipt of postal note by the Publisher,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co„ Ltd., Sydney, Australia.
WEBSTER’S CARBOLIC TOOTH POWDER^^
It is noted for its cleansing qualities. It neutralises all acid secretions
in the mouth —hardens and reddens the gums. Give it atrial and see why.
All Chemists and Stokekeepers. Large tins, 6d. each.
ALEXANDER J.
Tel. 3300.
WEBSTER, Prescriptionist,
(Two Doors from King Street),
177 PITT STREET,
THE DEAF HEAR.
Deaf persons need no longer despair. Out of the mass of failures has come a
genuine succ ss. Head noises can be cured and the deaf made to hear so
effectively that they wonder if they really were deaf. Particulars of a startling
discovery, based upon the science of Metallic Galvanic Electricity, that will
assist all persons suffering from deafness, fully described.
FREE.
Bv sending your name and address to THE L R. VERNON CO., 60-64 Hunter-st., Sydney, you
will receive a full description of this remarkable method, which will enable you to restore your
hearing at a very slight expense. The description is posted to you free, and you will be delighted to learn how
easily you can obtain relief. It will pay you to write to-day. Don’t neglect to do so.
FOR
LLIN’S
INFANTS
FOOD
AND INVALIDS
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
At Poverty Point.
WHAT IS COMING .
The deputation asks N.S.W. Premier See to have the grass and trees around Sydney Harbor
burnt, and the rocks dynamited every week , so that the sheltered spots where man now sinfully
hugs his (or the other man's) best girl may no longer lead the Sunday public astray.
To call Charles Frohman the greatest theatrical man-
ager that ever lived is far from big enough. Gus Harris
and Edwardes are minnows to him. He leases eleven
New York theatres, with seventy in other parts of
America, and four in London, besides being con-
cerned in enterprises in Paris and Berlin. Further,
he is the head of the combine of all the principal
American managers. This colossus is a little clean-
shaven man. He never was an actor, but has the
judgment of an Augustin Daly in picking plays and
supervising rehearsals. Frohman began without any
capital. He was the treasurer of Haverly’s minstrel
company, in America and London. Then he launched a
New York theatrical agency. His next step was plank-
ing his bottom dollar on a play named “ Shenandoah,”
which made a hit.
“ Cockaigne ” : Composer Planquette was at starvation
point when he made his hit with “ Cloches de Corneville.”
Produced at the Folies Dramatiques it was a dismal frost.
Then it suddenly caught on at Bordeaux. Revived at
the Folies it ran a year. The London production (1878)
was under the most depressing auspices. As with
“Genevieve de Brabant,” all hands predicted failure.
The last rehearsal was an awful smudge. Shiel Barry, as
Gaspard, could not emit a scrap of voice. His over-
whelming success in the performance is historical. It
was for him as Jefferson’s “ Rip Van Winkle,” Sothern’s
“Dundreary,” Emmet’s “ Fritz,” or Jennie Lee’s “ Jo.”
“J.F.D.”: Waiting for some reverend howler to open
up a crusade against the mutoscope. In “ Sylvia un-
dressing,” “ Peeping Tom,” “ Who owned the Corset,”
etc., the spectator who has invested a penny is just
thinking he is going to see something shocking when the
light goes, and the penny, which has been acting as a
joint in the circuit, falls down into the cash box with a
sound like a fat chuckle. “ Great is the art of finishing.”
Why doesn’t some parson arise and denounce the machine
for leaving off in this villainous manner ?
Under the heading “Bullet Catching” in Weekly
Telegraph (London), 24/l/’O3, appears the following: —
“ A more tragic case was that of a murder brought about
by the bullet trick. It occurred about 15 years ago in a
then unsettle)! portion of Australia. A conjuror was
announced to give an entertainment one evening, the
great turn being the bullet trick. The bullet was selected
and marked by one of the rough men of the audience,
dropped into the pistol, and extracted by the ramrod in
the usual way. The audience waited breathlessly while
one of their number, a dead shot, took aim and fired.
When the smoke cleared away the magician was seen
smiling, with the marked bullet between his teeth. Just
as he was bowing in acknowledgment of the applause a
man jumped on the stage and pointed a pistol at the con-
juror’s head, ‘lf you are so good at catching bullets,
catch this,’ he cried as he pulled the trigger. The man
fell dead.” [This happened in “an unsettled part of
Australia,” so it ought to be quite easy to locate the
episode.]
“ N.”: The lately-deceased Augustus Hare, in his prosy
Autobiography, says that there have been painful and
incredible circumstances in his life, but forbears to dig
them up. The English newspapers are now doing so.
He had a brother Francis, and a sister Esmeralda, the
heroine of About’s romance of “ Tolla,” which is founded
on her being cruelly jilted by a young member of the
Italian nobility. Hare’s widowed mother was very rich,
and lived in Rome. Her brother was the swindler Sir
John Dean Paul, who robbed her of half her fortune.
She was robbed of the other half by Parker, her London
solicitor. This blow broke her heart, and she died.
Esmeralda, however, recovered £20,000 of the money.
Then brother Francis, a scallywag, came on the scene.
Mrs. and Miss Hare had become devout Catholics, and
Francis pretended conversion also. He had dissipated a
large fortune of his own, but Esmeralda trusted him, and
he made away with all her £20,000. _ Within about a year
of getting it she died, under suspicious circumstances,
that looked like poisoning. She said to a nun who
attended her, “ Francis has been the death of me.
Augustus Hare made statements to the effect that his
brother had killed his sister. Francis thereupon com-
menced a libel action against him, and it came into
Court, at Guildford. The Judge refused to try it. A
settlement was effected, on Augustus explaining that he
only alluded to Francis’ bad investments. It is supposed
that Esmeralda poisoned herself. All the parties to the
affair had been dead a long time before Augustus passed
away. Sir John Dean Paul married his gaoler’s daughter.
“ J.A.C.” : It is stated, on excellent authority, that
Signor Buzzi, once well-known here in Italian opera, has
abandoned “the pomps and vanities of this wicked
world,” and joined the Carthusian Brotherhood in Rome.
Little G. D. Meudell, the figure merchant who used to
help “ lead ” the great Vie. agitation for cutting down
public servants’ screws, lately devoted his evenings
to the harmless pleasure of trying to tangle up calcu-
lator Inaudi. After spending a day evolving a beautiful
problem, he would cart his friends round to Melb. Opera
House, and fire off the puzzler. When Inaudi came out pat
with his answer, the ex-reformer would exclaim, “ You’re
quite right, sir,” and clap hysterically. Then the gallery
boys gazed down in admiration at Meudell, and concluded
that he was Treasurer Turner with his “ mo.” dyed.
“ J.A.C.” : “ S.T.S.” (Bulletin 28/3/’O3) has courteously
undertaken to put me right re my statement that the
late Kate Vaughan was “ without a rival in her pourtrayal
of the London street-arab.” I may have been wrong, but,
if so, then so was the entire London press. Her “con-
stant associate, Nellie Farren,” eminent though she was
as a Priestess of the Sacred Lamp of Burlesque, had to
play second fiddle to K.V. in that respect. Back in the
’7o’s I had numerous opportunities of witnessing the per-
formances of both these ladies, and I am not “ talking
through my hat.” Further, “S.T.S.” remarks:—“The
dainty K.V. could not have looked like a street boy to
save her life.” It is not necessary for one to “ look like
a street boy ” to give a burlesque imitation of one.
Possibly “ S.T.S.” has never heard of the gentleman who
gave an imitation of a hard-boiled egg, although he did
not at all resemble that vegetable.
“ Melb.” : If you want something new, go and see Miss
Kellermann, at the Melbourne Aquarium. I have just
been, and had no idea that aught so daring could be
attempted- A finely-developed woman, she disdains
tights, except a very close-fitting black body shape.
Miss K. is a rich mahogany brown, through her habit
of classic sea-bathing. She is not as hard as nails, but
all splendid muscle. First she gave a diving and swim-
ming show in water the level of the floor, then a remark-
able exhibition in a glass tank, 60ft. by 20ft., within
a few inches of the spectators. No wet brown girl that
I have ever before seen impressed me so much.
Madame Adelina Patti was 60 years of age on Feb. 10th.
In Melbourne General Cemetery, in close proximity to
a number of Thespians, there is a marble memorial over
the grave of Ellen Mortyn which bears the following in-
scription : “ Here lie the mortal remains of the gifted
Ellen Mortyn. This simple tribute to her worth was sub-
scribed for at a public benefit in the Royal Princess’
Theatre, Melbourne, by the Amateur Benevolent Comedian
Club, August 31,1861. J. M. Forde, Honorary Secretary.”
The memorial cost £5O.
Wilson Barrett and Hall Caine have been waging a
newspaper correspondence or controversy concerning a
second dramatisation of “The Manxman,” which was not
anything of an improvement on the play that Barrett
staged in Australia. The controversy brought no satis-
faction to Hall Caine, but it served as a capital advertise-
ment for Barrett. Perhaps they are business partners
quarrelling in the interests of the firm.
The various U.S. religious denominations propose to
unite to reproduce the Holy City in all important
details on a 10-acre plot at St. Louis' World’s Fair of 1904.
The cost is estimated at £445,000, and the profits, from
sale of stock, &c,, at £945,000. Apart from the fact that
you can’t get much of a Jerusalem into 10 acres, or build
much Jerusalem for £445,000, there is something pathetic
about the hope of the religious denominations that they
may make £500,000 beer-money by guying the birthplace
of their faith.
“The man they cannot hang,” was the sensation of an
English touring circus for many months. Daniel
Lambert, the man in question, used to be “turned
off,” taking a 15ft. drop every night, and people
crowded to see the performance. They were at last
satisfied; one night Lambert failed to catch the noose
with his hand as he fell and the man was banged in
earnest. Probably the audience was then happy.
“ J.F.D.” : Re calculating feats. Knew a man who had
a calculating crow. Taught him by tying a piece of cotton
round his leg, and making him nod his head every time
the string was pulled. The crow picked up the nodding
business in about three months, and the owner exhibited
him as a calculator, the crow doing (apparently) multi-
plication and division sums by nodding his head, each nod
representing one. The owner pulled the cotton, which
travelled from his trousers pocket down the leg of his
trousers along the floor to the crow’s perch. “ Had a bigj
crowd one night,” he said, “ and fairly beat em, adding up;
seven columns of figures. Started him on another. FirstS
figure two ; I gave two pulls, but he wouldn’t nod.|
Another two, no nod. Then he grabbed the cotton in hist
beak and gave the whole show away. Found when II
examined him afterwards that the cotton had slipped!
into a cut on his leg. No wonder he struck.” I
The noble Earl of Yarmouth, who gained notoriety out
here by his remarkable exhibition of skirt-dancing, is
about to marry an American heiress, a Miss Alice Thaw.
He is himself a frost. A “courtesy” earl (really much
the same as a commoner) who is hard-up and wears
skirts, and takes his more or less bogus title from a town
that is full of red herrings, isn’t much of a catch.
“ J. A. 0.” : J. H. Edwards, the victim of the lamentable
tramway accident on 24th March last, was employed by
Bland Holt as what might be termed equestrian director,
and trainer of the various animals employed by B.H. in his
productions. Edwards was a fearless horseman, and had
in his time been a Master of Fox-hounds. In one of
Bland’s military screams Edwards had to gallop a horse
up a steep “ rake,” then across a bridge into the “ flies,”
a height of about 30ft. When he reached the top of the
“rake” one night the horse stumbled,and both rolled
down together to the stage. That the rider escaped being
crushed was miraculous but Edwards just mounted and
rode up again. The audience took it for part of the show,
and when he didn’t roll down with his horse next night it
had a half inclination to demand its money back.
The story of a Maoriland warrior :
George Whitmore, M.L.O. and Major-General, who
died in Napier (M.L.), March 16th, was a man who
lived a stirring life in the wild times of empire-
building. He was born in the island fortress of Malta,
away back in 1829, while his father was a major in the
Royal Engineers. The year 1846 found him fighting
Kaffirs in South Africa, and two years later the sharp,
little, rat-like officer was with Harry Smith when the
Boer laager was burst at Boomplats, and he helped to
chase President Pretorius for nearly 20 miles after the
Boer rout. More Kaffir wars followed, and Whitmore
was in almost every battle. Thence he went to the
(\rimea, and served under both British and Turkish flags,
and when there was no more fighting in Europe he went
on V> India. He came to Maoriland as military secretary
to General Duncan Cameron, who was in command of the
Imperial troops who were suppressing a Maori “rebellion.”
A year later he went on the land in the Hawkes Bay dis-
trict, wnhfe his home has been ever since. A band of
Hau-haus yame down by Petane and skirted round
Napier, andNnally took up a position in a fortified pah at
Omaranui. TNere they were attacked at day-break by
Whitmore with 200 militia, and what were not shot were
captured. Whitmore was the first to scramble over the
palisade, and saw Hie wife of the fighting chief belaboring
him with a rail beisause he wouldn’t get up and fight.
Later on that chief was found to have 40 odd bullet holes
through him, and the bellicose wahine fell down and wept
when she found she had been walloping a dead husband.
About the time the Franco-Prussian war was commencing
W’hitmore was chasing Te Kooti over the hills and down
the gullies in the most break-neck hunt ever Maoriland
saw ; butTe Kooti was a great goer and kept in front.
In January, 1869, Whitmore stormed Te Kooti’s fortress
at Ngatipa; it was situated on a wooded hill 2500 feet
high, and was taken after a five days siege. As usual Te
Kooti got away, and Colonel Whitmore went back to the
West Coast and let out his disgust on Tito Kowaru’s
crowd, which had been doing pretty well as it liked
between Kai Iwi and Waitara. By this time Te Kooti was
once more on the riot in the Uriwera Hills, and the little
Colonel came back to have another go at him, but just as
the same old hunt was commencing there was a change
of Ministry, and the Fox Government at once removed
the Colonel from his command. He was Colonial Secre-
tary under Premier George Grey, whose Ministry lasted
two years—lB77-79. Later on he was a member of the
transitory Stout-Vogel Ministry which lasted 12 days
in August, 1884. When the Infidel and the Jew came
back to power in September, 1884 (Atkinson’s five-days
Government intervening between the two Stout-Vogel
Governments) Whitmore became Commander of the
Forces and Commissioner of the Armed Constabulary,
and was promoted to the rank of Major-General. He was
a member of the Legislative Council from 1863 till his
death a few weeks ago. He tried his hand at many
things, including matrimony, but at none of them was he
so successful as in the art of war. Ilis business enter-
prises were unsuccessful, and his marriage, sad to say,
unhappy. About three years ago he suffered a paralytic
stroke. He only returned from England, where he bad
gone to publish a history of the Maori Wars, about a
month before his death.
“ J.F.D.” : Had a case at a suburban
court, a few weeks back, where I wished to obtain
an order for possession of premises occupied by a
“lydy” of loose virtue. The case was called,
but no defendant appearing the magistrate put it
back till the afternoon. Called again (no defend-
ant), he postponed it till the next day. Next day
(no defendant) he refused to make an order be-
cause I had not told the “lydy” the case was
postponed, and ordered me through his clerk to
acquaint her and endeavor to bring her to court
next morning. I went down and tried to cajole
her up, and she promised to attend. The beak’s
typewriter next morning (lady not putting in an
appearance) informed me that his Wash up could
not make an order without the appearance of de-
fendant, he having postponed the case when there
was no appearance of defendant in the first in-
stance. Next day I gave her five shillings to
come to court, and on her consenting to go in
seven days I got an order. But what is the legal
method of ejecting a lydy of loose character ?
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
The visit of Admiral Fanshawe’s squadron
of neutral-tinted battle-ships to Maoriland re-
sulted in the usual quantity of heart-burn and
abject toadying. The man who gave the Admira’
the list of notables in Wellington was evidently a
humorist. F instance, the Mayor and some of
the councillors were invited to a function on the
flagship ; but the balance of the city fathers were
overlooked. The Times staff went abroad, even
to the printer’s devil; while the Evening Post
staff couldn’t raise an “invite” amongst them.
Consequence—the Post gravely informed its
readers that a children’s party was proceeding on
His Majesty’s man-o’-war. Dick Seddon sailed
out in his private steamer (Maoriland really owns
it) and took with him any chance friend he met in
the street. These persons he introduced indivi-
dually to the Admiral to the mortification of some
of the Very Best People who were only guests of
the junior officers. And now the disappointed
spinsters of Wellington look with hungry eyes on
the lonely harbor and wonder why there isn’t a
hole in it where the squadron was.


ToCureHorseAilments.
Eminent Veterinary Surgeons
(see Book on Bottle) strongly
recommend Condy’S Fluid as a
speedy and absolutely Certain
Cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore
Backs, Broken Knees, Grease,
Thrush* Cracked Heels and
Mud Fever in Horses,
Insist on having “Condy’SFluid.”
Sold by all Chemists & Stores.
v2l
0-0 TO HELL-
IUOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatolic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
SPECTACLES
-—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERB
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
, .. . , . t dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, ourmarvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Testy ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H* A* BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 Ceorge-at., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
“Don’t shout”
I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
How?’ Oh some-
thing new— The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-''
Drum I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them _
they're invisible. I wouldn
know I bad them in myself
only that I hear all right. '
The Wilson Ear-Drum’'*
really a substitute for the
parts ot the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable * Totally
different from any other de-
j vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon reques
[j. CHAIHtg». 22»-23l Collin*
POLITICAL
POINTS
New Australian verb—“to bulwinkle” the
Customs. A relation of the old Queensland verb
“ to bulcook” the electoral rolls.
The new Tasmanian Assembly, so bad has
been the smash, contains only one man (Nicholas
Brown) who has had experience as a Minister,
and he, being Speaker, and aged 65, and none too
brilliant, scarcely counts.
The latest phase of co-operation is the
clubbing together of bunches of N.S.W. legis-
lators to employ and pay a common secretary.
“ Half-a-crown each would get us a good man,”
said the organiser of one bunch.
The courtesies of politics. Owe’Sullivan
says of Carruthers : “ I’ll tell something. ” Car-
ruthers says of O’S. : “If you do, I’ll tell some-
thmg. O’S.: “I didn’t mean I would tell
anything.” Carruthers responds: “Then if he
doesn’t mean anything, I don’t mean anything
either.” J s ’
Said in the street that Honorary Minister
Fegan was taken into the See Cabinet principally
to balance a certain other Minister. Poor old
Kidd sat on the beam one day trying to balance
that Minister ; but when the Minister took his
place on the other end the crown of Kidd s head
hit the ceiling.
Premier Barton’s reply, when asked if the
Commonwealth Government proposed to take any
steps to disqualify or retire or eject or freeze out
alleged Senator Reid, was neat but not gaudy •
“It is hardly necessary for the Federal Govern-
ment to interfere when the probability is that the
ordinary results will accrue.”
The suicide of Mrs. White, at Brighton
(Vic.), last week, after 66 years of married life,
ought to be a solemn warning to Raven Shiels and
the rest of the Irvine-Bent gang to go slowly with
the reduction of the Old Age Pension. Had
Victoria been run by a decent, civilised Govern-
ment, the woman who is now dead would not have
been driven to such dreadful extremities. It
isn t necessary to cut anyone’s throat to be a mur-
derer.
When the Iron Bonus Bill was before the
Commonwealth Parliament it was argued by the
Importing Gang that our population was so small
it wouid mean giving a monopoly to one ooncern,
which would be in a position to supply the whole
of Australia, and then lie idle part of the
year. The Mcßillion gang should look
at Canada, which, with about a million
or so more population, has
now 15 huge iron and steel
mills going, and is add-
ing to the number.
THE POINT OF INTEREST.
THE STRANGER (finishing his hair-raising anecdote): “At that very moment a thunderbolt
hurtled down and dashed the glass from my hand.”
BILIJIM (with awakened interest): “ Wa-was there any beer in it?”
Victoria has about six times as much rail-
way as it had in 1873. But in 1873 the list of killed
and injured consisted of one person (and he was
only injured); the year ended June, 1902, the
killed and injured numbered 878. For the last
few years the list has been mounting up gaily:
1895, 324 ; 1896, 361; 1897, 553 ; 1898, 451; 1899,
436 ; 1900, 576 ; 1901, 665; 1902, 878.
Queensland Premier Philp is very sure as
to his tenure of office. He told a deputation at
Rockhampton that he had no intention of
resigning or gomg to the country; if the electors
did not like his policy they could turn his party
out-at the next general elections That is two
years off and greater men than Philp and stronger
parties than his have disappeared in less than two
years.
There is much tribulation amongst big
landowners in Victoria over filling in their new
income-tax forms. Land assessed for land-tax at
20s. per acre won’t look well bringing in from 10s.
to 12s. 6d. an acre rent. Civil servants in the tax
department have a unique chance to raise Cain
and come out even with the reformers.
If, as rumored, Hogue, Ashton, J. C. L.
Fitzpatrick, and John Haynes are sure of port-
folios in the first Carruthers Ministry, the “dirty
inkpot” will have more than a due share of the
billets. Carruthers himself was connected with a
little Rockdale paper some years ago when Bouci-
oault, of Gympie (Q.), tried to wake up the
suburbs.
For the first time in a long run of years
the Maoriland cold-tea people can squeeze a spoon-
ful of comfort out of the grog statistics. After
the State’s liquor bill had steadily and rapidly
gone from £2 19s. B£d. per head in 1896 to
£3 10s. 3fd. in 1901, it last year repented. Not a
large repentance, however; merely Bfd., or say a
pint and a half.
The consistency of Carruthers. It has
been a shocking drought, he says, and Crick has
only done what he ought to do in dealing gener-
ously with the struggling farmer. But O’Sullivan,
in dealing generously with the struggling laborer,
who is also the victim of the drought, is a blun-
derer and a panderer. This is the yarn Carruthers
keeps for country consumption ; probably he will
uncork another for the city.
Sydney D. T. seems disposed to crawl
down on the White Australia question and adopt
the Argus view in regard to the kanaka. Extract
from leader, April Ist:
The mixed aliens cannot be dispersed and, being here,
as a matter of sensible precaution should be encouraged
to get work and attend to it. There remain the kanakas,
immeasurably the most useful of all the colored peoples
within our borders, who, by the irony of circumstances,
are the only section to be deported.
A correspondent from Maoriland :
I have read “Theata’s” contribution (B. 14/3/’O3) about
the squire blight in Victoria. We have the remnants of
the same disease in this allegedly democratic State. One
can see the trail of the squattocracy in many ways. For
instance, Balfour, Prime Minister of England, owns a
huge block of fine land somewhere in the Wairarapa, and
now that the Government talks of resuming it for closer
settlement, sundry contemptible newspapers whine about
“ driving capital out of the country,” etc.; and one penny
rag tells its readers that Balfour is a “ good landlord,”
because he has just sent out a cheque for £25 to help
build a church.
Some recent prosecutions of soft-goods
importers by the Customs are the result of infor-
mation supplied by a straight-going firm. A cer-
tain agent sought orders from Messrs. So-and-So
on the strength of his alleged success in getting
goods through the Customs on false descriptions.
He gave the names of other firms for whom he
had worked the swindle and who had thus been
able to undersell their honest rivals. Then So-
and-So, for their own protection, passed these
particulars along to the Department.
The new Edward coins for use in India
follow closely the design of those circulated in
Australia, and show Ned as an uncovered and
bald monarch. Said that there is almost as bad a
bit of business in this for the “ Empire ” as in the
oow-grease yarn of the Mutiny days.
For in India a man never uncovers
tn public, and to show a shaved
or bald head
is a proof
of utter
shameless-
ness.
There have been lately, in Fremantle gaol,
under sentence of death, no less than seven
prisoners, and there is an eighth on the goldfields
—a record, it is believed, even for Westralia. And
there is not one of the eight who might not easily
have been shut out of the country under any
decently-administered law restricting undesirable
alien immigration.
At Moruya (N.S.W.) an old-age pensioner
sued for £lB5, money lent, and got a verdict. The
case is said to illustrate how the pension system is
abused. But it doesn t necessarily do anything
of the sort; it may merely illustrate how a man
may be driven to apply for an old-age pension
through the difficulty, as the law now stands, in
collecting ,£lB5 justly due to him.
Although the majority of the S.A. farmers
last season reaped a good harvest and obtained
high prices for their produce, there was a large
number who got no crops at all. For their
assistance £30,000 has been distributed, and 1310
cases were relieved. Next year they hope to pay
it all back. A similar hope has been in their
hearts season after season for eight or ten years,
but at the close of each season seed has had to be
asked for again.
Woodend (Vic.) wants a new post-office,
and a publican offers a free site next his beer-
pump and opposite the railway station, while a
land speculator wants to sell a “ more moral ” site
for £350. A public meeting resolved that the free
site be accepted. Thereupon two Federal poli-
ticians rushed to Melbourne to protest in the
interests of Boodle and the rights of land specu-
lators, and P.M.G. Drake, instead of throwing
them out, listened and promised a referendum.
The enforcing of the regulations regarding
temporary employment in N.S.W. public service
is producing a new class to be known as the nine-
months man. A temporary clerk is nowadays
only appointed for a
short term, and the
“temporary’’ hand who
lasts for 20 years in one
department will soon
be extinct. The term
of the appointment is
usually three months
with a quarterly re-
newal, but the Board
cannot approve of the
retention of the appoin-
tee for more than nine
consecutive months, and
a year has to elapse
before he can be re-
instated on the tem-
porary staff. Certain
men with a “claim on
the Govt.” get re-ap-
pointed again and
again. For nine months
they strut round full-
blown public servants
at 10s. a day. Then
they disappear for a
time. Punctually, when
their term of banish-
ment is up, they bob
up from goodness knows where, and a billet
is generally waiting in the Rabbit Protection
Department or the Rabbit Destruction Office
or the Rabbit Consideration Branch. What
they do in the interregnum no one knows (or asks).
But they can be depended upon to turn up and to
enjoy, like the remittance man, their period of
prosperity.
The Westralian jury’s vigorous kicking
against the Executive’s failure to spare the neck
of a man who had been recommended to mercy
availed at the last moment; the hanging has been
commuted to 20 years’ gaol. This particular
man’s life may not be worth much ; but the main-
tenance of the principle that a jury’s “ recommen-
dation ” should be taken absolutely as part of its
verdict is worth a good deal. But the jury
should be allowed to say not only that it recom-
mends mercy, but also how much mercy it recom-
mends.
In Victoria’s present hard-up period it is
a pleasant reflection that its selectors owe it over
£400,000 for arrears. This isn’t so much the poor,
embarrassed selector as the big landowner who has
frozen dozens of selectors out by purchase or fore-
closure of mortgage, and who truculently dares the
spineless Government to make him pay his just
debts. There are cases, for instance, of 30 selec-
tions being held by one man, who owes £2OOO or
so of arrears, and off-handedly tells the State to go
to Sheol. And instead of selling him up it goes
to Sheol.
During the discussion on the Railway
Commissioners Bill in the Victorian Assembly, it
was stated that the interest on the East Natimuk
to Noradjuha line amounted to £3 a day, and the
line earned 4s. Interest on the Beeac to Colac
line came to £5 a day, and the takings 12s. And
one station was instanced where the average daily
income was less than one shilling. This discus-
sion ought to be interesting reading to incoming
Commissioner Tait. With Tommy Bent and lines
like these to manage, his life is not going to be a
big joy.
N.S.W. Public Works Act provides that
no work, the cost of which is to exceed £20,000, is
to be undertaken unless favorably reported upon
by the Public Works Committee of Parliament.
The Act—intended to limit Ministerial power—
can be evaded by letting a work in sections, the
cost of none of which reaches £20,000. Car-
ruthers, when Minister for Education, built the
Technical College in that way; and Varney
Parkes —of the same political gang—the post-office
telephone tunnels. The N.S.W. Freetrade crowd
was always peculiar in its methods when in power.
During his Queensland tour Senator
Glassey pledged himself to advocate a weighty
absentee-tax (which is good) the proceeds to be set
aside to pay Federal Old Age Pensions (which is
also good). And then Senator Glassey might have
done some more good by pledging himself to a
heavy special tax or series of taxes, proceeds to go
into a Public Works Fund so as to make loans
unnecessary, which is even more essential than old
age pensions. But he didn’t. Glassey, in fact,
seems willing to be a cheerful borrower and help
to beggar posterity, so long as we have a good time
ourselves.
Balfour has a great opportunity now that
he is about to buy out the Irish landlords ; but, of
course, he’ll neglect it. Instead of selling the
land to the tenants, to be paid for in instalments,
why not make the State the landlord, leasing out
its acres ? His plan only staves off the evil day.
In another 200 years the aristocratic names there
may all be O’Brien, Murphy, Maloney, and
O’Hooligan ; and the plebeians will be De Vescis
and Castlemaines, who will all be clamoring for a
fresh land-deal, just as the present malcontents
There will be few remonstrances if the
Barton Government take early steps to set up a
Federal Statistician s department. Strange as it
may appear, many of the fiscal bubbles that
politicians blow are generated in one or other
of the handbooks the States separately produce.
Different bases are adopted, and giddy super-
structures of argument are the consequence. On
a multitude of grounds the Commonwealth should
have its own Statistician.
Bent’s latest idea is to offer the scorned
railway weeding contracts—which nobody seems
able to do cheaper than the Department— to the
Victorian unemployed, in small sections, pre-
sumably at sweating rates. “They will make
more than they will lounging round the street
corners, at any rate,” says Bent. Apparently the
permanent-way men who usually do this work are
to lounge about the corners instead. Nobody
seems to have any idea of meeting the unemployed
difficulty by creating new work at making the
goods that are now imported. Every fool’s
remedy is to take Smith’s job from him and give
it to Jones.
DIPLOMATIC.
“Do you believe dot honesty is the best policy?"
“ Veil, not a tam soul ever heard me SAYING dot
it ain’dt.”
A N.S.W. daily paper correspondent
points with unconscious satire the true position of
the Tax-Dodging crowd, in giving his idea of re-
form :
No borrowing.
Economy, reduction of members.
Reduction of taxation.
Alterations of the Federal bond in such a way as to
enable the Commonwealth to reduce their taxation.
No borrowing and less taxation make up a plat-
form that should attract any voter, yet it could be
improved upon. Why not add that a quart of
beer should henceforth be a gallon, and be sold at
the price of a pint, with an increase in brewers’
profits.
That quaint N.S.W. politician Eden
George has addressed to Premier See a letter
weighing about in which he casts off his
allegiance. In the beginning of the letter he
speaks of large State matters, and reproaches See
for his extravagance and ineptitude, and then
slides into a bitter curse about a friend or
acquaintance whose property was resumed and
his rent allegedly raised £1 per week—though the
Ministerial reply makes it look much more as if
the friend’s rent was reduced. Apparently Mr.
George stood everything till his friend’s rent was
in question. Then the camel snapped in the
middle, carrot-wise.
During the last five months' (since the
abrupt close of last session made the thing pos-
sible) there have been 4000 garnishee orders in the
Victorian Railway Department. Commissioner
Fitzpatrick and Accountant Kent declare that
over 90 per cent, of these are got by money-
lenders— “ the tradesmen don’t garnishee.” Bent
still hangs back with his departmental loan bank
scheme, “lest some thriftless, betting employees
should take advantage of it.” A Usury Bill, such
as was introduced by Isaacs, M.P., long ago,
would put a stop to this bloodsucking, but that is
the sort of legislation the “House of Review”
always ponders over for several years.
Under the Q. Divisional Boards Act
owners and occupiers of land who have paid their
rates not later than seven days before the date of
nomination are entitled to have their names on
the voters’ list for the election. Bishop O’Quinn
died 20 years ago, and his name still appears on a
Brisbane suburban voters’ list. The other day
Judge Real wanted to know how the dead ecole-
aiastic contrived to pay his rates seven days before
nomination day and how the local authority
managed to serve him with the rate-notice. In
Queensland a property owner can remain on a
voters’ list 20 years after his death. An unpro-
pertied citizen can scarcely keep on the electoral
roll while he is alive.
The Bulletin (7/2/’O3), when there was
a sound of loud timbrels over alleged Senator
Reid’s election:
There is practical unanimity among Men who Have and
a very-widely-prevailing notion among Men who Have
Not, and can never hope to Have, that the work of
governing the country is in good hands when a wealthy
draper or a more than ordinarily predatory stock-exchange
speculator condescends to go into politics. Such men, it
is reasoned, are likely to do well for the community,
because they have done well for themselves at the expense
of the community. But—apart from the fact that it is
only when tired of doing well for himself and anxious to
gratify some social or other vanity that the rich man u
willing to go into politics with the dregs of his brain-
power—is a graduation at the school of predatory
commercialism the best preparation for public life ?
And that was before Robert Reid’s commercialism
was investigated in the law courts.


LIPP PIANOS at PALING’S
The Best and most reliable German Piano made.
The Popular Plano in Australia.
*'/
r;
%
8
•&1
%
Sold on
Easy
Terms.
0
Catalogues
Free by Post.
0
Old Pianos
taken in
Exohange.
Beware of* Imitations of the Wonderful Lipp Pianos. The Genuine Lipp Pianos are to
be bought only from
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd., 338 George Street, Sydney;
Brisbane and Newoastle.
Anaemia, Weakness, # Debility
Cubed by Webber’s
VITADATIO
CALL AND SEE MRS. WALKER AT HER ADDRESS.
147 Denison-street, Waverley,
September 29th,, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
My daughter, twelve years of age, has suffered for years
from Anaemia, Weakness, and Debility. I had two
leading doctors attending to her since she was four years
of age, and tried everything that I thought would do her
good, but to no purpose, until some months ago a friend
of mine who was taking Webber’s VITADATIO for
Hydatids advised me to give her the same medicine,
which I did, and after a course of VITADATIO (which I
obtained from the Paddington Agency, 377 Oxford-street)
she gradually improved, gained in weight, and got a good
colour, and is now in the best of health. I hand you this
testimonial to make use of as you please for the benefit
of others, and will give further information to any person
calling at my address.—Yours faithfully,
(Mrs.) H. WALKER.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
18J: Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Glorious Rains at Last!
More Hopeful Prospects.
Now that the drought really appears to have
broken, and prospects seem more hopeful, you
will feel inclined to invest in a Waterproof or
Oilskin Coat. In which case, post your orders to
Charles Gilbert, the Specialist in Men’s Wear,
Queen-street, Brisbane, whose values in these
goods are notoriously the best in the Common-
wealth. All coats guaranteed Waterproof, with
sewn and taped seams, at 215., 255., 30s. to 50s.
Oilskins, 15s. Gd., 17s. 6d., 225. 6d. (leather-bound
and double-lined). Carriage paid to any address.
Send a trial order to-day for anything in Men’s
Wear.
Free for Asking.
to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-menf The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Q. Specific, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.
pNGINEMAN’S MASTER KEY. -All subjects
™ relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 365 Pages. 106 Illustrations ;
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also (O .E’S,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
Launceston, the northern capital of the
politically-dull Flyspeck, astonished the mainland
Laborites who have been across helping the local
men. Among the things which the city owns and
runs are electric lighting works, abattoirs, water-
works, and baths; and it helps its municipal
workmen to get homes of their own, and provides
them with an old-age pension when they can t
look after the dust-cart any more.
“ Alba ” on heroes :
What egotists these generals are ! Napoleon wept over
his own domestic troubles, but dined heavily within sight
of the shambles at Jena. Probably Caesar was violently
affected when his wife’s corn was bad. Years ago writer
was very close to Kitchener at Aldershot, and in his eyes
were the shadows of two continents ; but when he ripped
out an order his jaw moved like the door of a pawnshop
safe. But some day he may weep, and then the gods will
lean from the beer-bars in heaven and listen to his tears
falling. Although differing from Kitchener in many
respects yet the late Hector Macdonald was of the sharp,
semi-brutal stuff that goes with the first-class fighter.
With Kitchener for his chief he smiled upon the horrors
of the River War. To be truthful, nothing disturbed him
or Kitchener—wine, the tears of women, the burning of
homesteads, the crying of little children, were all ob-
served with soldierly indifference. And yet there are
times when a tear may move like a mountain from a
man’s eye. When Lb Matin, with its bitter disregard for
heroes, stoned Hector Macdonald for his alleged sin, he
permitted his blinding tears to engulph him—tears for
himself. Such splendid egotism is grief in plaster of
Paris ; it is imperishable until it gets wet.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
Sydney Telegraph on the British Secre-
tary for War:
Mr. Brodrick is a type of Minister not well known to
Australians. He comes of the “governing class,” and
he became a Minister and remains a Minister by virtue of
the support of the “ governing classes.” He is an
indifferent speaker, an unattractive personality, and a
bad administrator. These three disqualifications would
make short work of him in an Australian Legislature.
Here he will have to go eventually as a member of the
Ministry, but only to be translated to another and equally
important position, say, as Viceroy of India. In any case,
he will go to the House of Lords, where most of the
political failures go. . . . In any self-governing colony
Mr. Brodrick would have had a short political shrift. His
survival in political life in England is solely due to the
fact that he is the nephew of Somebody, the brother of
Somebody, and the son-in-law of Somebody. All these
Somebodies are representative of the classes, who deem
it to be their pre-emptive right to govern the masses.
The worst of it is, the masses think so, too.
NO HORE ROUND SHOULDERS!
WALK UPRIGHT IN LIFE
AND WEAR
Denyer's Knickerbocker Brace,
The most Comfortable
and Keliable Shoulder
Brace made.
When ordering send chest
measurements.
All sizes, for Boys, Girls,
Men and Women.
Prices—
-8/6 No. 1, 6/6 No. 2.
DENYER BROTHERS,
281 George Street,
SYDNEY (op. llunter-st.)
and at Melbourne.
Callaghan Boot
POST
FREE
DUTY
FREE
£5
m:
>v-
Ladies} 16/6
YES!
YOU
MAY
RELY
ON THEM,
We can fill orders exactly, through
our Mail Order Department, for this
very stylish Boot. It is made of fine
American Glace Kid, with Patent Caps.
15/11 —Post and Duty Free, 16/6,
Over all States except W.A,
“Messrs. CALLAGHAN & SON,
“Dear Sirs,— l received boots in good order, and am well pleased with them. I enclose
postal note for account, and hope same will reach you safely.—E.S., Armidale.”
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
Cj>
BILLS
discounted.
Tta-.S.^OT.
(Jlontdepietefl/4C0.,[t(1.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
rjA CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
1 * SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
■'l’ll 15-
rhe
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices * * 106 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruck Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299-assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMIT HI).
Svdney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
j T CANNY. (Messrs. Burns. Phi.p Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL * 7oo ’ oo °
Capital Paid-up ...£lOO,OOO
“"t'oUe l ™* blli “ S "*”' moh» £350.000
Royal Bank ofQueensland
J LIMITED.
CAPITA! PATD-lIP . •• •* ••
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 176,239
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58, quo
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland fifing |Jompy~
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
J 3 Conner Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot Queensland, the Branch
Office, 64 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney. .
The savings bank
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 41 ner cent in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
Properties ; and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yearlv.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4J per cent, for 31J years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors-Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Oo.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
J. J.«LLE«. >- y “*
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. ••
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
£2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) . £^'m 13 4
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
C. M. ’Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDIL A. LANG, Assistant Manager
our No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
8 the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automata
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large S locks of the
Best
Carbide
ofCalcium
Quotations on application.
James martin & co.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
KT. 33. L«
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, Wth MAY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about 11th APRIL.
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEYIC, and PERSIC
to follow.
PARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 27 0 0
26 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & C°’s C ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
iV
a. nxr o
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
FASTEST AND BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA 1
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
Bank of Neiv South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
2,000,000 0 0
1,300,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,300,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackbllar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L O.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
Its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other hanks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
hanking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parado
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
-L Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
Lfor/*LiLet /Lights
/Wealthy Jnfhiits
RIDGES
&h<i
JBejt
Refuse a////nsfaf/ons
Satisfying Strengthening Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible. Nourishing
AGfflrS POP SYD/ffY
S AY fPS ALLPOPP 6t POTPPP
iIDGES FOOD MILLS LONDON. E*c
WE SKIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
,£2.10 t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
tree Whee’ls, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any tort in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catiloeue and Special Offer
Using aid. stamp. Address Dept 3WJJ
Mead Cycle Co
Chicciqo,
U.S.A.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisnane.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
AORANGI, APRIL 20. MOANA, HAY 18.
The Most Popular Steamer on
the Pacific*
Choice of all Rail or C.P.R. Routes
Across Lakes Superior and Huron.
Meals and Berths on Lake Steamers
Included in Passage Ticket.
NO OTHER LINE CAN OFFER THIS.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
iXTTILTIE 15. JULY 13.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
Hiodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
Hygienic Hjater Filters
AVOID TYPHOID, ILL-HEALTH, and DISEASE
BY USING OUR
Hygienic Water Filters
With Rubber Attachment to fit any Top.
THE CHARCOAL. AND SILEX
which t hese Filters contain is the very
Best Water Purifier Known to Scientists as It
Removes all Germs and other Impurities.
When ordering mention size of tap in use.
PRICK : LARGE
SIZE,
45..
MEDIUM Q e POST
SIZE, PAID.
Agents—VICTORIA: WARTZKI, FREEDMAN and CO.,
GEELONG, VIO.
Agent- QUEENSLAND : ARTHUR BRAY,
92 EAGLE ST., BRISBANE.
Agent-TASMANIA : WERTHEIMER, BENJAMIN and
ANDERSON, HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Agent—SOUTH AUSTRALIA : AUSTRALIAN TRADING
AGENCY, GENDERS BUILDING, ADELAIDE.
Agent— N.S.W. : ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS-
HOLDS WORTH, MACPHERSON & CO., SYDNEY,
and all Hardware and Ironmongery Stores.
If not obtainable at your Storekeeper, send to
Sole Agent, Australasia,
J. LANDES, 108 Pitt St., Sydney.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Dalky. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
Sblpplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Viotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURN*
ADELAIDE
POKT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BA?
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingrat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Buninyong,
Thursday, April 9.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, April 11.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oalrns
S.S. Rockton,Sat., April 11.
S.S. Buninyong, Friday,
April 17.
S.S. Allinga, Friday, April 24.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P. AND o
COMPANY’B
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Maritimes and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available lor return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Touohing at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. iTns j Commander. Leave Sydney.
EMPIRE .. 4500 W. G. McArthur.. 1 April 15
•EASTERN 3600 Winthrop Ellis ..May 13
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms ..June 10
•EMPIRE .. 4500 W. G. McArthur. ■ July 8
•Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, *«•. ®“
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS oi
Sept. 28, 1895, says;
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair ana
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
ys&P' Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CRAICJ A'fe A.ITKBN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
GENTS.^-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne


. TRADE MARK .
Fox Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn
the Public that their Trade
Mark consists
ONLY
of the word
FOX
which is a guarantee of sound'
ness of material and Quality
of Dye of all
Worsted Coatings,
Serges I ZweeDs
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years
of experience
fox’s pure 3n9igo Dye
is recognised as the best in the
market. All FOX'S standard
cloths are stamped every two
yards on the back
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are
not genuine. These celebrated
serges can be obtained from the
leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS. & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f ne.
Directors—Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.. Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary—Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS
The Most Highly
Qualified Opticians
in all Australia,
$ SANKEY, Ltd.
Queen St., Brisbane.
Rockhampton, London.
Scientific
Manufacturing
Opticians • ■
Save Double Profits by Procuring from the Makers*
ft
n":ii' ,i"% •/"}.
iil!„ii O ii
F
A v,w
"?
V
Sight-Testing
FREE.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK,
44 The Human Eye
and its Care/'
BEST LONDON SMOKE SOLID NICKEL
GOGGLES FOR LIGHT OR GLARE, 3s.
SPECTACLES TO ORDER, from ss,
Oculists’ Prescriptions of
all Kinds made up.
ASK FOR PRICES.
SPECIAL ATTENTION given to Prescrip-
tions by Pest from any Part of
Australia.
Moderate Charges.
Good Work,
ALL REPAIRS BY RETURN HAIL.
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS '•SANKEY
Optical Workshops
150 Queen St., Brisbane
East St., Rockhampton
Under the direction of Mr. C. Sankey Fraser, F.5.M.0., Fellow of the Worshipful Company of Spectacle Makers,
London ; Diploma, British Optical Association ; Diploma, Visual Optics, Northampton Institute ; Diploma,
Applied Optics, Northampton Institute. (All the above honors were gained by examination.)
The NEW CENTURY RIFLE
Illffltorttltl
CLD
15s
Each.
Full Length, 35in. ; Weight, 31b. ; Fires 8.8. Cap, or
22 Long, or 22 Short Rim Fire Cartridge. Takes down
with a single screw. All parts of Best Steel. Per-
fectly Machined throughout. Accurately sighted and
well Rifled for Perfect Shooting. Will kill at 300yds.
Carriage Paid to any railway station in N.S.W. Orders despatched same day..
P.0. Orders payable to
Sydney Small Arms Go., 57 Post Office Chambers. Sydney,
AND CROSSED E.S. AND A. BANK.
A Full Stock of D.B.B.L. Guns, Rifles, and Revolvers always on hand.
T. TOMBLESOifc , Manager
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pa}' us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O Buckboard Buggies from £0
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They eannot do so, and you pay 15 per
■>ent. more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUK 81'KCIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Oelirered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Kail trays, Station
£lO 10/-
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages ; price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
DRINK*
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) &at Helidon.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE. WORSTCOUGHJ.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Petramos ” : A friend in the business telis me
that the credence property buyers in S.A. place in the
prophecies of weather prophet Giddons is extraordinary,
A man comes along presumably with the intention of
buying an orchard “ somewhere near the city.” After a
bit he thinks that after all it’s not quite what he wants.
Gradually he works round and says—“ I suppose you
haven’t got anything like a small farm somewhere about
the middle North ?” Fancy anyone, this time last year,
wanting to buy a farm in the middle North of S.A.
• * * •
“ J.F.D.” : Another item on the “ struggle for
a crust” calendar. Recently applied for a position
advertised in S.M. Herald, and three days afterwards I
was sent for by the advertiser. He informed me that he
had one hundred and thirteen applications for the posi-
tion. I evidently passed inspection, as he detailed my
duties, and, as a final remark, informed me the wages
would be £1 ss. per week. I accepted and gripped tne
lever. It was a change-stall and tobacconist’s business
combined, and I opened up at 5 a.m., receiving assist-
ance from 7to 9. I ran it till 2 p.m., when I was
relieved, but only to come back and relieve my assistant
between 5 and 7 p.m., when the rush was great. Sun-
days the same, and holidays were unknown —in fact, on
those occasions, the work was doubled. As I was respon-
sible for the cash, I had on my own account to slip back
on Saturday nights and help during a few hours’ rush.
After three weeks of it I left. I figured out that I had
worked 80 hours per week, which averaged 3Jd. per hour.
1 thought my abilities were thrown away at that, so I
took a turn at selling wild-rabbit.
* • « •
Successful London action againsta Yankee assess-
ment insurance ofiice to recover premiums paid on a policy
—the “ proposal ’’ for which was gained by tricky and mis-
leading statements on the part of the canvasser—recalls
an Australian incident of a little while ago, when a
smart eanvasser obtained in Sydney and Melbourne
several big “ proposals,” hooking his victims with the
bait of a local directorship or something of that sort. In
some cases the premiums were recovered by actions at
law. The too-clever canvasser afterwards went to
London, calculating that he was wasting his talents in
such a punctilious country as this.
* * » *
Victoria’s ■ rabbit-export trade rapidly ap-
proaches a “ great natural industry.” Trappers are now
forming an association 5000 strong ; butter-export firms
are making that staple a secondary item, bunny coming
first; last year Victoria sent away 6,000,000 rabbits ; this
year the total should be at least 10,000,000. Already the
landowner, as usual, begins to take the cream of the
profits, many trappers now paying heavily for the right
to trap over lands where, a few years back, the owners
had to pay to keep bunny down. Possibly, in another
couple of decades sheep-breeding will have been displaced
by bunny-rearing; and the Britisher of the future, living
mostly on rabbits, will squat on his haunches and wear
cocked ears and a scared expression.
• • • •
From the Perth R.C. Bishop’s “Lenten
Pastoral,” amid the notices as to days when his flock
must not eat meat:
“ For a considerable time it has been a matter of great
solicitude and anxiety to Us to have none but the purest
and most reliable wines used in the Holy Sacrifice of the
Mass. It is, therefore, a great relief to Our anxiety to be
able to recommend Santa Rosa Wines as pure and reliable
for the use of the Altar, and, for the preservation of uni-
formity, We hereby notify the Venerable Clergy that no
other wine has episcopal sanction for use in the Holy
Sacrifice of the Mass throughout this Diocese. —M. Gib-
net, Bishop of Perth. The Palace, Perth, 21st February,
1903."
Which beats anything The B. has ever yet heard of, even
from Yankeeland, in the way of advertisement.
* • • •
Isaac paid £5 to see an old joke over again
t’other day. A man was in the habit of pawning a
diamond ring with the hooked-nose one regularly about
the middle of the month, and redeeming at the Ist. This
went on until the ring became an institution. This
month the pawner was very stiff, and got an extra £1 on
the ring. Not coming as usual at first of month to
redeem it, Isaac became suspicious and tested the stone.
It was only paste. He had had the jewel through his
hands so often that he did not bother to test it that time.
Thus it is that the Hebrew who goes too often to the well
is broken at last.
» • * •
Writes “Victorian Country S.M., P.M., L.T.0.,
Dog Man,” etc. Income Tax in Victoria is only a farce
and is evaded wholesale by our wealthiest class, the well-
to-do farmers. As an instance: My town boasts three
pubs, one taxed ; three stores, one taxed ; and scores of
wealthy farmers within three miles who have had splendid
seasons, record crops and best prices known of for years.
And how many income-tax forms do you think I issued
last year? Well, only three. Yet mine is the only office
for miles round where income-tax forms could be
obtained. One particularly well-off cockie, a J.P. etc.,
sold, to my personal knowledge, close on £6OO worth of
produce in six months, and he obtained from me an
exempt form declaring his taxable income to be nil. I
know what I write, as all his produce passed through my
hands. I also know prices ruling at'the time. I am an
officer at £146 per year, with wife and five kids, and have
to part up my pound of flesh to the Income lax, while
around me are scores of bloated humbugs who lf
things don’t soon alter in Victoria there will be GORE.
“ Junior Clerk ” writes :
All things considered, the civil-servant of the future
Should be a somewhat useful creature. A new regulation
made by N.S.W. Public Service Board provides test exam-
inations for promotion to the higher grades of the clerical
division. The curriculum of study includes public finance
and accounts, land laws and administration, the princi-
ples of national education, law and the administration of
justice, mining and agriculture, State charities, asylums,
old-age pensions, industrial legislation, principles of
commerce and commercial law, history and law of the
constitution, political economy and economic history,
international law and diplomacy, actuarial science and
theory of statistics, English literature, expansion of the
British Empire (of course), modern history, political
science and history of political theones soc o ogy,
French, German, law and mathematics (the latter
ing logarithms, trigonometry, analytical geometry, differ-
ential and integral calculus, statics and dynamics).
Altogether about 196 text-books, numerous Actsi of Par-
liament (as well as books required for certain unn ersitv
coursesmid the bar examinations) are recommended for
study what is the use of it all so far as concerns
three-fourths of New South Wales. The cm -servant
out in the Far West should be examined in asylums, old-
age pensions, dust-storms, artesian wells and bad whisky.
Other knowledge is superfluous.
The Most Valuable Diamonds.
It is difficult to account for the great price of
diamonds. To be sure, they are beautiful stones ;
but their virtue lies entirely in their power to
ornament. All but about one in every fifty
thousand of us live our lives without ever owning
a diamond, and don’t seem much the worse for
the privation. But ’tis not so with diamonds of
anotner sort —black diamonds, coals. Stop his
coal supply the man becomes paralysed—his
steamers lie idly in the harbour, his factory wheels
cease to revolve, he starves, shivers, and soon
becomes an object of pity. Take every other sort
of diamond out of the world, you will wound much
vanity and extinguish a very small industry. The
difference is great. Black diamonds for us, and
plenty of them, we say. The pity of it is that
they cannot be obtained under conditions more
healthful. “ But every trade has its drawbacks
and disadvantages, ” says Mr. Joseph Watson, of
Harris-street, Glebe, near Newcastle, N.S.W.,
when writing on September 26th, 1902. “Pit
asthma, or miners’ complaint, as it is often called,
is undoubtedly the worst evil peculiar to my
work, coal mining, and few diseases are responsible
for more suffering. But for Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup it would long ago have ended my
career. Pit asthma is an affection of the lungs
brought on through breathing the vitiated air in
pit working, which is moist and hot. Strangely
enough, those miners who are most robust and
healthy are the very ones most prone to contract
this disease. I have worked for more than
half a century in various collieries, both in the
‘old country ’ (of which I am a native) and here in
Australia; and frequently in the pits, where
danger is always present, I have seen comrades
killed, crushed, or crippled. However, it has
always been my good fortune to escape injury.
But some years ago I fell a victim to pit asthma.
I spent money liberally on doctors and medicines ;
but the complaint increased upon me, and
frequently I was unable to work for days together.
Violent paroxysms of coughing would rack my
chest until I was quite exhausted. Sometimes 1
would feel a little better, but oftener a great deal
worse. While in this state I was recommended to
try Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. I was not
very sanguine about it, as I had suffered so many
disappointments in respect of other medicines.
But the first few doses distinctly benefited me
My complaint had a firm hold of me, and it took
several bottles to cure me ; but the Syrup did cun
me and an occasional dose keeps me in good run
ning order.”
THE GOLD THAT IS IN THE REPORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are fairy tales borrowed from Mammon,
That tell us of magical gold,
Unearthed by the witchcraft and gammon
They practised in ages of old ;
But visions of wealth in a coffer
Are nothing to wealth of the sort
That a golden prospectus may offer—
That gold that is in the report.
The lamp of Aladdin was mighty,
But “over an ounce to the ton,”
In paragraphs airy and flighty,
Looks solid and easily won.
We learn there’s a leader to follow,
And stuff to put through the retort,
And in “ grand indications ” we wallow,
The ones that are in the report.
Another wild cat—does it matter ?
A picturesque lie has its worth,
And luck may the biggest fool flatter,
And gild the round rim of the earth.
So down to the office we travel
To pay up the calls that are short.
O, if only the rock and the gravel
Had the wealth that is in the report 1
M. O'M.


FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
A Wet Skin Caused Trouble.
How often have we heard it said, “Take off
your wet clothes, or you will catch your death of
cold.” That is all very well if one is at home, and
close handy to something dry to put on. Mr.
John A. Phypers, of 173, Pitt-street, Redfern,
Sydney, was far from home, when one day he was
drenched to the skin. In this condition he had
to remain all day. The consequence was he had a
frightful attack of influenza, which left him with
rheumatic fever before it had done with him. “ I
was under the doctor for months,” he says. “He
eased my condition for a time, but the old
rheumatic pains came back, and for five years I
suffered such agony that the pain nearly drove me
mad. Everything I thought of I tried. The
affected parts were rubbed with oils and liniments,
poultices were applied, and I dosed myself with
various drugs and medicines, but all to no purpose.
In fact I seemed to be growing worse. At last I
heard of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Before
I had taken a single bottle the rheumatic pains
began to leave me. I continued with them and I
was soon able to be up and about. The pains
became less acute, until they finally vanished
altogether. Besides completely curing me of
rheumatism, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have
thoroughly improved my general condition, and
to-day I am in better health than I have ever
been. ’’ Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect
blood purifier, and a positive cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, liver and kidney
troubles, piles pimples and blotches, and for
female ailments. Put up in amber bottles and
he full name bio wn thereon.*
Mr. J. T. WISEOARYER, Fairfield, lowa,
Jan. 25, 1899, writes :—“ I had HEMORRHAGE OF THE
LUNGS—went to California for my health. It did me no
good. I afterwards tried Jayne’s Expectorant, and IT
CURED ME.”*
Re the negotiations between the Cable Co.
and the Australian Government for the purchase
by the latter of the Tasmanian cable line. In view
of the announcement that the well-known Times
correspondent, G. W. Smalley, is daily transmit-
ting matter to his paper from New York per
Marconi’s wireless telegraphy at a cost no greater
than that charged for telegrams been Paris and
London, what does Australia want to buy any
obsolete cable for ?
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM! TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
The lath and plaster pavilion at Centennial
Park (Sydney), wherein the Australian Common-
wealth formally commenced its existence, is now
on its last wobble, and threatens to topple over at
any moment. . The structure, erected temporarily
for a temporary purpose, with a hazy idea of re-
producing it in more lasting material later on,
has been neglected till it is now about to give up
the ghost. From its associations, the weather-
beaten wreck should find a warm corner in the
memory of all patriotic Australians, but the pro-
posal to make a stone or brick duplicate of it,
and to try and shift the emotions and associations
from the original place to the duplicate, is pain-
fully thin and artificial.
The man on the land is always in trouble,
but his troubles end when he places his business
in the hands of Land Agent W. N. Willis of Jl
Bligh-street. No results, no fees is his business
shingle.*
Sydney Telegraph describes as “ the
latest victim of the Customs Act ” a firm charged
with wrongly describing goods so as to swindle
the customs out of duty. Now supposing the
D.T. was charging one of its staff with defrauding
it, would it describe him as “ the latest victim .
RESC
J
AND
LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Clarendon Handicap at Hawkesbury, Satur-
day, was a complete boil-over and gave Mo an absolute
“ skinner." Those who saw Heyday win at Newcastle
earlier in the week voted him a “ moral ” ; it was only a
matter of putting coin down and picking it up again with
the odds added, they said. Heyday started 6 to 4 against,
and others weightily invested upon were Capriform,
Skein Dhu, Hello, and W.F. Unthought-of Lady Grafton
(unbacked by owner or anyone else, and about whom, in
a field of eight, twenties were plentiful) made a ridicu-
lously easy win by a length which might have been materi-
ally added to had that been necessary. This, too, with
the mare fresh from a spell. Truly the bejewelled are
the pampered of fortune.
* * * •
Aged Mozart —Unknown gelding Jew Boy, who
easily won Park Stakes at Hawkesbury meet, Saturday,
from a big field, should shape profitably in much better
company when wanted. Jew Boy had previously notched
successes in northern N.S.W.—among them a double at
Narrabri. A protest that the horse was prepared by an
unlicensed trainer came too late. After this, Welter,
wherein he was weighted lib. above the minimum, looked
good for Jew Boy, but he failed to shape, possibly
through fear of that objection cropping up again.
* * • •
“Oxboro” Autumn Handicap (l|m. and
100yds.), once among the bigattractions of the Continent,
hadn’t on Saturday last the fetching power of an ordinary
every-day suburban weekly big thing. A field of
moderates lined up—B of 13 entrants putting in an appear-
ance. Fungus, who never did anything to justify the
fact, was made favorite—3 to 1 against. Silver Forest
and Vocalist were also well backed. Outsider Skein Dhu
cut the work out, and was once eight lengths to the good,
but Silver Forest came along at the right end and won
fairly comfortably from Vocalist. Warrior 11. (last year’s
easy gatherer of same event) finished back of the lot with
Grafnell. Silver Forest belongs to bookmaker Beales,
who has only had him a few months. Nag’s previous
owner, intent upon visiting S’Africa, tried hard to get rid
of S.F. and one or two others at auction, but failed until
Beales came along.
• • « •
Oxenham’s Acrasia looks like giving Sydney
Cup, Easter Monday, a big shaking, judged by most
reliable of all lines —public form. Last time out (at
Rosehill, Saturday week) she shaped capitally, and will
have 181 b. less to carry in the Cup ; besides, distance is
her forte, considering the stable connections thought she
couldn’t lose Australian Cup and the great race she ran
in last Melbourne Cup. Northern N.S W. crack Postillion
must also be reckoned with, as, quite ready, he is a
dangerous customer always ; and, despite Abundance’s
failure to down Great Scot inside a fortnight ago, he
should be handy, even though the load (9st.) allotted him
is a thumping one for a 3yr.-old. Bewitcher (6.7) is
fancied in some quarters, and doing well on the track.
Patronage, trained away from the metropolis, is some-
what of a mystery, but marked “ fit” he’d have troops of
followers. Summed up, Acrasia or Postillion take writer’s
fancy most, with some Doncaster Handicap failure to
shake them up.
* * <* *
Money keeps coining for Australia for Doncaster
Handicap but, to time of writing, stable hasn’t a cent on
and price shortens as day (this Saturday) of race ap-
proaches. Most punters are on tenterhooks as to whether
they’ll get a run for their coin, but its next door to a
certainty the nag will be “after it,” as such prizes are
not available often and, further, Australia is not likely to
be so well in any future engagement; and she’d perhaps
have to carry another stone if the handicapper had his
way now. Next best fancied, The Idler, looks worth an
investment, especially when one remembers how he
pushed Clean Sweep at w.f.a. just after latter
won Melbourne Cup, and fact that he beat The
Victory and Flagship in Adelaide. Provided trainer
Williams brings his charge to the post fit and well—the
Victorian will make things sultry for the best. Marvel
Loch’s success at recent Rosehill meet was full of merit,
and, having done some good work since, she must be
given a short price chance, especially if backing comes
from the right quarter, for Argentum, who pushed Aus-
tralia to a head in the Rosehill Welter, is in the same
stable, and should supply a “line.” Of the others.it
seems Rose Petal and, possibly, Postillion (if that backing
of the Northern colt last week was inspired), are the best.
• • * *
“Le Chasse” writes: —“‘Truthful James’
asked, ‘ls visions about? ’ Probably they are, for that
backer must have seen something in a dream, or on the
track, when he cornered ‘Leviathan’ Oxenhamat Tatter-
sail’s Club, the other day, and took £4OOO to £lB about
the double, Australia and Patronage, in one pop.”
* * * *
The fact that Tattersall’s sweep on the Doncas-
ter has filled with 25,000 subs., and another on the Sydney
Cup is filling fast, proves that people who want to gamble
will gamble in spite of postal Ministers or parsons.
» • * *
Federal Postmaster-General announces that the
Postal law, which prohibits a fair gamble like Tatt.’s
sweep, is not to be extended to church lotteries, Eight-
hours Day sweeps and such like, wherein the speculator
is always “ taken down ” more or less—sometimes to the
extent of getting a pennyworth of gamble at the expen-
diture of a shilling. The principle of the Postal system
seems to be that gambling under fair conditions is not
allowed, but gamble-cwm-swindle is legal, if not abso-
lutely beautiful.
* • * •
A Charters Towers racing starter was recently
fined £7 7s. cost of new set of teeth, 10s. 6d. dentist’s fee,
£1 for lost time, and costs, for dealing out stoush to a
racing patron who boohooed over a bad start or some-
thing of the kind. They always were more lively than
dignified up North.
• • • *
A. O. Whitington, secretary of Adelaide Racing
Club, is only 46, and once patented an improved totali-
sator. He has been with the club ever since the rocky
times previous to 1888. His father is reputed to have
imported the first thoroughbreds into S.A.
• * * *
“Le Chasse ” predicts: “Punters who pin their
faith to Wakeful can rest assured that the marvellous
mare will not sport silk at the A.J.C. Autumn meeting.
Luckily she belongs to an owner who does not require to
race to balance his corn-bill, and, as she has now been in
training for over two seasons and paid her way most
handsomely, Mr. Macdonald rightly thinks she has earned
a holiday, especially as he has a well-grounded idea she
may be able to annex some of the good things going dur-
ing the Randwick Spring meeting in September. To run
Wakeful through the coming Randwick meeting would
necessitate part of her holiday being taken during the
early part of winter, and that would spoil a deal of her
chance of success during the Spring season. Therefore,
just at present, Wakeful is “ off,” but when she comes
again the stable will require to be very wide awake that
expects to down Wakeful.
* • • *
Some close numbers in Tatts. :—Doncaster H.
(compiled for the benefit of some greedy persons who
didn’t amalgamate); 11,703 (horse), 11,705 (£5); 13,977
(£5), 13,980 (£10), 13,986 (horse), 13,987 (horse); 16,966
(horse), 16,978 (horse), 16,982 (£5); 19,813 (horse), 19,821
(horse); 21,249 (£5), 21,254 (horse); 21,411 (£10), 21,422
(horse); 21,531 (horse), 21,535 (£5); 22,158 (£10), 22,165
(horse); 22,879 (horse), 22,880 (£5). The two consecutive
numbers, 13,986 and 13,987, drew Dulcimer and Suzanne
respectively.
“X. 0.”: Re Charters Towers Ikey Mo sup-
pression pars, in Bulletin. Pity the Queensland police
or Government don’t complete the job by suppressing
Mo. altogether. Mo. still flourishes at bike and athletic
sports, pony races, and in shops. The C.T. Pony Club
has a tote permit, and has no excuse for allowing Mo. to
bellow on its premises—still he bellows. The Govern-
ment refuses the League of Wheelmen a tote permit—
very foolish proceeding for a Government that wants
money baddy—so the bike people have to give Mo. per-
mission to bet. As to the betting shops—one zealous
Charters Towers bobby, if given instructions to that
effect, would soon settle them. For a Government that
hunted Tattersall out of the State, that of Queensland
is very tender in dealing with Mo., but then it is
very much parson-ridden, and the parsons have made so
much money telling people how Mo. came out of Egypt
that they feel tender towards him. Heaven knows how
many thousand Christians make their living preaching
about Mo.
• • • •
Liverpool Grand National Steeplechase this
year was remarkable for two things—the marvellous
manner in which the veteran’chasers finished, and the cruel
luck that befell Ambush 11., which fell at the last fence
while leading, but winded. And this after his Royal owner
had travelled to Aintree to lead the wished-for winner
back to the weighing-yard. The real winner, Drumcree,
is no chicken, as he has been racing five seasons (running
second to Grudon in the Grand National two years ago) ;
the second horse, Detail, is seven years old ; while the
third, Manifesto, is 15 years old, and not only
won the Grand National of 1897 and 1899, but
ran third last year when Shamrock Lass, lOst. lib. , won,
Matthew, 9.12, being second. The old warrior, Manifesto,
had then to carry 12.8. He ran five times last year, and
though he failed to win, he ran into a place every time.
He started ’chasing in 1892, and has been going ever
since. Manifesto has many wins to his credit, one of the
best being the Lancashire Handicap Steeplechase of
£2170. His first try for a Grand National was made in
1895, when he ran fourth. The Grand National has now
been an annual event at Aintree for 65 years, and the
entrance fee is 25 sovs., the length of the course being
4 miles 856 yards. This year the “ National ” was worth
2525 sovs., including a trophy valued at 100 sovs.—a nice
little pile which, had he won it, would have enabled
King Ned to keep the wolf from the door till the end of
winter. But all the best “lepping” horses are Irish.
Another injustice to England.
» * * *
Recent Westralian Goldfields’ meeting saw
crack jock R. Trewartha up on 13 firsts in 17 starts.
* * * *
For a considerable time the bookmaker has
defied the efforts of the Maoriland racing clubs to expel
him from the racecourse. To settle the point the Wel-
lington club took the matter into court, and the Chief
Justice has decided that “ Ikey” can be expelled, since,
“ under its lease, the club has the right to frame regula-
tions to prevent bookmakers from carrying on their
calling.” There is much weeping and wailing now !
• • * *
Will of recently-deceased Sydney jockey, Frank
Kuhn, was sworn at £6449, and consists mostly of a life
policy (£500) house and land in suburb of Kensing-
ton, near Randwick racecourse, and a saddlery business
in Pitt-st., Sydney. In the circumstances it isn’t to be
wondered at that the disqualification imposed by the
Y.R.C. never worried Kuhn much.
• * * *
The last cricket match of the season gave
another showing-up to the bowling strength of Warner’s
team. To his big total of 553, S.A. replied with 304
Claxton, 88 ; Hill and Jennings, both over 50. Thomp-
son’s fast yorkers did all the damage, and he took 9 for
p 5, all the other bowlers being scored off at a tremendous
sace. In the follow-on he seemed ineffective, and the
score mounted to 454—the colt Gehrs, 100; Hack,
90; Hill, 73. Going in to make 206 to win, the
Englishmen were all out in 2£ hours for 108, amid
tremendous excitement. Dowson, top scorer, was run-
out, and the other nine wickets fell to Hay’s fast
medium stuff, six being bowled. Burnip, Fane, and
Taylor fell to the hat-trick, Warner and Bosanquet to
consecutive balls. The sensation was increased because
Hay only got into the team as emergency man, and also
lives in the district where the match was played. The
Unley Oval provided a splendid wicket and a rough out-
field, and the result was quick scoring throughout, 1419
runs being made in under four days. Stanning (of the
spectacles) was a good deal knocked about on the rough
ground, and, said Warner after the match, deserved the
V.C. for standing up to the ball; but he added that they
had not had a better wicket in Australia.
Albert Trott’s performance in the S.A. match
was 0 wickets for 78, and 2 for 101; scores of 4 and 8.
Hay and Travers bowled unchanged through the English
second innings, although the latter never took a wicket.
Record ? Newland only gave away 1 bye in 661 runs.
• • * *
Eye-opener of recent England-S.A. match was
wonderful bowling of Hay, who bagged 9 for 67, and pos-
sibly might have had the other (Dowson’s) but for
his being run out. Performance is an exceptional one,
and recalled Collins’ dismissal of the same side on last day
of its match against Victoria. Hay has played elector-
ate 'cricket with Sturt Club for years, and only two weeks
before going through the Englishmen secured 7 for 29.
Merit of the feat, however, is materially depreciated by
the fact that on first and second days of match, when
wicket was easy, his work had no sting and was erratic.
At best, Hay is only a medium-pace man and may pro-
bably do nothing extraordinary against bats accustomed
to fast wickets.
* * • •
Dear Sir, —The following is an extract from
Auckland Weekly News : “ Westland 22 v. English 11.
Currie quite surprised the Englishmen, proving himself a
regular stonewaller. ... He carried his bat out, after
compiling 31 runs in over 2 hours at the wickets. His
performance was cheered, and a subscription made to
present him with a bat.” Second innings, same bat was
in 1J (one and a-half) hours for 5 runs ; but A.W. News
doesn’t say if they cheered then.—J. Byrnes.
* • • *
“Stumped” says: All great men have their
own pet superstitions or little fads, and great cricketers
are no exception to this rule. The great Grace not only
has a weakness for wearing silk shirts—a weakness shared
by Ranji, who also loves white, and in the field often
looks like a large stick of liquorice rolled up in a table-
cloth—but W.G. also has a funny way of cocking up his
left heel (a sign of nervous trepidation) while waiting for
the ball to arrive. A. J. Begbie, the Harrow champion,
stands at the wickets with his legs very wide apart, and
he also has a queer trick of patting the ground with his
bat, exactly three times, while facing the bowler. This
is done “ for luck.” But the Eton boys used to kill a lot
of Begbie’s luck by piping out at the critical moment,
with each pat, “ One, two, three— hit! ” Lord Hawke’s
little fad is to wear his cap back to front; Gunn places
his foot to the exact inch, and then draws up his left foot
to the proper position ; Shrewsbury likes to play a couple
of little pat balls by way of a preliminary. All agree
that it is a fatal omen to drop your hat while walking to
the wickets, but writer thinks the worst omen of all is to
let a straight ball pass you when you get there.
• • • •
The veteran of Maoriland cricket is Richard
Nelmes, who recently top-scored in a Waikouaiti v.
Dunback fixture, notching 28. He took part in the All
England XI. v. Otago XXII. match in Dunedin in ’64—
the first English team to visit Dunedin—and, although
now about 70 years old, is as nimble as many of the
young ’uns in the field. Like George Giffen, his cricket-
ing 3tar never seems to wane.
Concluding rounds of Melbourne pennant cricket
matches are interesting. Saturday provided something
beyond the ordinary. East Melbourne, opposed to Mel-
bourne, finished 1 wicket for 232— McAlister contributing
103 and Stuckey 92—both not out. Melbourne had 4
down for 119. Fitzroy-North Melbourne engagement
attracted a huge crowd. Former lost 8 for 193, and latter
3 for 61. Left-handed Saunders was in fine form. He
bagged 5 Fitzroyites for 58 and, with last 7 deliveries,
scattered 3 for 2 runs. Match, ’Varsity against Carlton
resulted in 6 for 169 and 2 for 152 as named. Carlton’s
lot owed much to Graham (69) and Warne (52) not out.
* * • *
Next month sees the starting of the Football
season, chief event of which will be the visit of the Maori-
landers in July. Where these matches are to be played is
already troubling the governors of the sport. Last year
the Rugby Union, heading a revolt among the various
associations against the extortions of the Sydney Cricket
Ground Trustees, played the Queensland matches on the
’Varsity ground, but though successful, they would
naturally prefer the 5.0.0. Almost it would seem in
retaliation the Trustees have agreed to let the ground
practically free of charge to two Victorian clubs who are
coming over to give a fillip to the Australian game, neces-
sarily a rival to Rugby football, despite all protesta-
tions to the contrary, the Rugby Union has promptly
reiterated its demands for a concession from the usual
high charges, and a conference is to be held. The Sydney
ground trustees, by their donation of £lOOO to the
Drought Relief Fund, show that a few extra pounds
must be quite a matter of indifference to them, and, in
the interests of other branches of sport, might easily meet
the footballers more than half-way.
• • * *
Movement for firmly fixing Victorian Associa-
tion football in Sydney is spreading ; already nine new
clubs have been formed in big centres. Vic., Tas., and
S.A. governing bodies purpose sending teams to N.S.W.
during season ; first will be forefront Gollingwood and
Fitzroy combination on May 3, when they’ll play their
match for Victorian premiership, and, four days later,
meet a combined N.S.W. team. Gate goes towards for-
warding Sydney movement; visiting clubs will pay their
own exes., besides losing the big gate that would cer-
tainly result if they met in Melbourne. ’Tis anticipated,
too, that an army of Victorian football barrackers, <fcc.,
will come Sydneywards to see the Collingwood-Fitzroy
match, and special trains are to be arranged for. Matter
is so earnestly taken up that Sydney workers in the
game’s cause purpose sending competent players to the
various schools to teach football as she is played in Vic-
toria, and books of rules, &c., will be freely distributed.
• * • *
“J.F.D.”: “S. the W.” (B. 28/5/’O3) asserts
that there is no skill in “ two-up,’’ as the coin makes a
half-turn in three to six inches, and no man can regulate
the spin to a foot. I know a man who would like to meet
“the Wrinkler,” when that interesting person was
flush. I have seen him practice for hours in a room
and go within an inch of the ten-foot ceiling nineteen
times out of twenty. He turns up sometimes of a lunch
hour at the foot of Druitt-street (Sydney), where on the
dead square he will “ head ’em ” eight times running, and
finding no one to set him, he will “ tail ’em ” for the same
number of times. When “ The Wrinkler” is in town he
should go down and see him, especially if he believes in
the law of chance.
• * • •
There seems to be a burning anxiety on the part
of many athletic bodies in N.S.W. that boast of a huge
credit balance, to give a big portion of it to the Drought
Fund. Hitherto it has been like drawing blood from a
stone to get anything like a decent grant to help clubs
who supply the fun to rake in the boodle ; and now,
while there are many awaiting financial assistance, the
executives of cricket and football in N.S.W. are rushing
to subscribe to a Drought Fund. The usual enormous
advt.
* * * •
Of all branches of sport, the motor-car should
be the most-beloved of the undertaker—since once there’s
a smash the victim seldom recovers. A prominent Aus-
tralian firm proposes to inaugurate a Sydney to Mel-
bourne motor-car fly—not so much as an advt., as to
settle the long-argued point as to how long it will take
an automobile to do the nearly 600 miles sprint.
• « < *
Giant axeman pug. Bill Heckenburg won wood-
chopping championship at Cataract Dam (N.S.W.) t’other
day. Cracks from other States competed. Champion
bruiser of Tas. (James) is a wood-chopper, too, and ’tis
likely that he and Heckenberg will come together in a
glove fight if latter beats old man Dooley late this month.
* • * V
“J.F.D.”: A shopkeeper near me has a grind-
stone on the premises. Was in the room behind his shop
the other morning when a man came in with six new
packs of cards, which he carefully unfolded. After
extracting the four Jacks he ground the remainder of the
pack slightly on the side edges, then repacked them and
went. “ Does about eighteen packs a week,” said the
shopkeeper ; “ I don’t know what for.”
• * * *
Final of big N.S.W. Bowling Club event —
“ Rawson ” Challenge Cup—was between champion team
Petersham and St. George, on Redfern green, Saturday.
Petersham was in front from the outset, adding more to
its advantage the longer the game lasted, and ulti-
mately finishing .110 to opposing side’s 68. St. George
was beaten in three rinks —badly in two of them, 38-14
and 34-17. In one rink Petersham notched a 5 and a 7
(the possible was 8) in succession, and two 4’s. Defeated
side undoubtedly played below form, and got worse the
further it went. Some members of the inter-State team to
oppose Victoria in Sydney this week figured on one side
or the other, but only one or two shaped promisingly.
Petersham has now won all the important club events of
the year, viz.: Pennant, “B” and “Rawson” Cup
matches.
• • * *
“Bias”: Petersham’s bowling triumphs this year
stand out ahead of anything ever previously accomplished
in N.S.W., securing Pennant and “B” matches—(latter
thrice in succession) and also Rawson Cup, Saturday last.
One of Petersham’s players (Harber) is in the final with
Whittle (City club) of N.S.W. B.A. championship, to be
played Easter Monday, and their four is still among those
left in the rink premiership now in its final stages, while
the club’s caretaker has won the best of the season’s
events open to him.
* * m m
Vic. bowling champion of champions final,
decided last week, went to West Melb. rep. F. Hardham,
who romped away from North Fitzroy man, W. Burr, and
finished 31 to 10.
* * • •
Prominent Sydney bowler, Frank Lemm, who
died at Balmain last week, built the first big barracks at
South Head. He also constructed Goulburn gaol, which
cost £70,000.
• • ■ •
Answering “E. 8.” (Middleburg, S’Africa):
World’s best for the mile is considerably less than the
figures quoted. Never heard of Van Heerdon’s or
M'Lachlan’s performances at Johannesburg—anyhow,
they are far behind existing records.
• * * *
How fine they cut it. One Sydney top-grade
pug. last week expressed willingness to fight another on
same plane if latter agreed to weigh lOst. National
Sporting Club tried to match them. Challenged agreed
to scale under limit fixed at noon on day of fight. “ No,”
said challenger, “ you must scale at ring-side.’’ Consider-
able talk, then challenged agreed to weigh at 6 o’clock—
two hours before time of fight—but challenger wouldn’t
have it, insisting that t’other might put on at least 21b.
meanwhile. “Bli me,” pleaded the challenged, “let a chap
have a bit of a tuck-in before he shapes up,” but chal-
lenger was immovable —must be just before entering the
ring or not at all. Remarkable how bruisers stick for
ounces now where a stone or two made little difference in
the old days.
* * • *
Clever welter pug Jack Blackmore faced Yankee
Bert Lundy (heralded a top-notcher in U.S.) at National
Sporting Club, Sydney, last week. It was a fast lively
tussle all one way—Blackmore’s—and ended in the third
round through the interposition of referee when Lundy
looked hopelessly out of it. Where the’Murkan got his
reputation from is mystifying. Blackmore had the ad-
vantage of having tried him out some on his arrival, and
consequently went into the struggle with a big heart and
showed off much of his fine skill, but left himself ’verv
open at times. 3
* * * *
Forefront heavyweight of nearly 20 years ago
and present able tutor, Tom Taylor, stripped to fight
young Sandy Ross at Sydney Gaiety A.C., Saturday night
and, all things considered, especially that he (Taylor) is
45, showed remarkable condition, and made his tough
half-as-old adversary look a very duffer. Half-a-dozen
times in the first round Ross was floored by weighty
lefts and rights. ’Twas very much worse for
Sandy in the next till police interference necessitated a
halt, and Taylor got the decision, the side-bet, and the
bulk of a good “gate." Taylor was Peter Jackson’s pet
pupil, but was always heavy-limbed and muscle-bound
and consequently slow; his trade (that of a blacksmith)
was opposed to the necessary freedom of limb and activity
generally. There’s evidently a good fight in the ancient
yet, and he’ll probably be heard of again, matched with
one of Heckenberg’s class.
* * • *
Said that Major Taylor will retire at the end of
the present season. His Australian trip panned out just
on £2500, and his Parisian engagement will certainly run
into £3OO0 —making a not-too-bad season’s work of over
£5OOO.
• * * »
Auckland (M.L.) Amateur Athletic and Cycle
Club still plods along. For well-nigh a quarter of a cen-
tury this club has weathered the storm without having
to ask public support for trophies, etc. However
matters are financially bad with it at present; so
it is on the cards that if the “necessary” doesn’t soon
come in, the Auckland club will be wiped out.
• • • *
Died at Pascoe Yale (Vic.) t’other day promi-
nent old greyhound-trainer Walter Melrose, in the
business in Australia 25 years. First man to employ him
was Hon. W. B. Rounsevell, of Adelaide. Melrose pre-
pared winners (Rhodanthe, Melfort, High Rent) of three
Waterloo Cups, and his list of successes in Derbies, Oaks
and Legers throughout the Commonwealth is excep-
tionally long. Cancer was the primary cause of death.
« * * •
Rumball, Sydney amateur top-notch billiard
player of 1901, and his vanquisher (Belfield) in following
year, contested a match—not for Belfield’s title—but
“ just for the fun of the thing ” (they explained in effect)
at Sydney National Sporting Club last week. Conditions
were 2000 up. Rumball won by 426. When they met
last, a few months ago, Belfield came out atop—l9s
points to the good in 500 ; then some of Belfield’s breaks
were 156 and 116 unfinished and several higher than 50.
Recent match, however, saw Belfield fail to reach 50 once
and only 11 times did he exceed 30. As evidencing how
little form is worth going on in billiards it is shown that
three or four weeks ago Belfield beat Adelaide crack,
Birkett, by 243 in 500 ; same day Campbell whipped
Rumball by 150 in 500 ; then Rumball squelched Belfield
by 426 in 2000 and Birkett accounted for Campbell by 136
in 2000. Somewhat of a mix up this.


COUNTRY FRUITERERS
Should send to us for their supplies.
We k w P h . e Best of evev y kind of Fruit in season.
We dont deal in low-grade sorts. We aim to supply
e ver y at lowest current market prices.
It will pay country fruit-dealers to get into communication
with us.
THE N.S.W, FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. Ltd., SYDNEY.
New High-Grade Sports Goods
ft ss°r “ "
VERY MODERATE PRICES.
We desire to call special attention to NICHOLL’S SPECIAL GOLF n line tv j
SpS,* toSSbi” AIU," I g,£lf""
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER.
YOU
GET THE BEST YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £6 10s. to £l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23 6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
RED BIRD BICYCLES
&
NEW fIODELS,
1903.
These New Models for Ladies and Gentlemen are worthy of your special attention. They are built
expressly for Australian roads, and carry our guarantee for Strength, Lightness and Comfort.
You would do well to call and see for yourselves, or write for a Catalogue.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., Sydney.
Quite a new thing in the way of a sym-
pathetic testimonial is suggested from Westralia.
A man there was recently seriously injured
through opening an infernal machine which some
enemy had sent to him. Now “ a large gathering
of friends ” has petitioned that he may be made a
J.P. as a solatium !
Another extract from Sydney Telegraph’s
serial story, “ A Prince of Sinners ” :
Theoretically freetrade should—l admit it—make us
the most prosperous nation in the world. As a matter of
fact, never since the country commenced to make history
has our commercial supremacy been in so rotten and in-
secure a position. There isn’t a flourishing industry in
the country, save those which provide the munitions of
war, and their prosperity is a spasmodic, and I might
almost add, an undesirable thing.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
This is announced as the programme of
the Tasmanian Labor party, now just beginning
to be visible over the rim of the political horizon :
(1) Paying members a sufficient sum to enable them
to live up to the requirements of the position ; (2) adult
suffrage, the members of both Houses to be elected on the
same franchise, and public-houses to be closed during the
hours of election ; (3) free and compulsory education ; (4)
boards of conciliation and arbitration courts ; (6) a
Factory Act similar to the Victorian Act; (6) a legalised
eight hours’ day ; (7) a progressive land tax ; (8) State
control of the liquor traffic ; (9) absentee tax ; (10)
Government to take over monopolies, such as Tattersall’s
sweeps, and run them for the good of the country.
And, as usual, not a word about honest and solvent
finance, or about owning our railways and other
works instead of having them owned by the
London money-lender. Till the Labor party gets
a clean and vigorous financial policy it can’t hope
to prosper.
The conference between Melb. Trades
1 lall and the Vic. Council of Churches has evolved
what looks like a fairly workable scheme for State
ownership and control of the liquor industry. The
conference proposes to ask for a Bill providing
for :
(1) Five years’ notice, in lieu of compensation, to
existing publicans of compulsory resumption by Govern-
ment of their licenses and businesses. (2) Licensed
houses to be reduced to 1 to SUO of population in Mel-
bourne, 1 to 600 in rural, and 1 to 1000 in urban districts.
(.3) Government to acquire, at end of five years, as
rapidly as finances permit, all houses for the sale
of intoxicants, and to carry on liquor traffic
therein. (4) Government to carry on trade under
these conditions: (a) shortened hours ; ( b ) no early
or late permits; (c) only males to be employed ;
( d ) houses to be closed on parliamentary and municipal I
election days ; (e) no one under 18 to drink on premises,
and no one under 16 to take liquor away ; (/) Govern-
ment pubs to sell liquor only. (5) After expenses, inter-
est and sinking fund payments have been met half the
profits to go to support hospitals, asylums, and homes for
aged, and half for the maintenance of institutions sup-
plying public needs and for recreative purposes—these
moneys to be distributed according to population.
HAND-IN-HAND
for EIGHTY YEARS.
Williams'
Barbers' Bar*
Williams' Traveller's Shaving Stick*
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old Soap.”
To enjoy the Luxury of a
Perfect Shave you must use
Williams’.
If you doubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you why.
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glaston-
bury, Conn., U.S.A. Also —232
Clarence Street, Sydney.
SHARPS HOOTING
»_v
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 li/Lustrations, 11- nett, i
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
1
mem
UJJI
mm
n*i
m
LiOR the person who is not r millionaire, there is ONLY
L ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
hat is “Ellis’ Kinff Street Coffee Palaoe,”
ituated at 60 KINO STREET, and near the General Post
Jffice. Proprietor—GEO. FT. ELLIS.
OPEN SESAME.—Hunyadi Janos Water is
the ‘‘open sesame” of the human organism.
Speedy, sure, and gentle, it fulfils every indication
in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. Indispensable to millions of
human beings all over the world.*
Some Ballarat (Vic.) manufacturers having
asked the Government for assistance, Melbourne
Argus proceeded to tell the awe-stricken public
what a hideously-sinful thing is “this raiding of
the State coffers on behalf of an artificial
industry.” And just when Australia’s “vast
natural resources ” are represented principally by
gratis seed wheat, free railway passes, and
Drought Saturday collections, it has the gall to
draw attention to the value of “our primary
fundamental industries” as compared with the
artificial ones, and exhorts the listening State to
notice that it is on these great natural land
industries that our prosperity depends.
SNS
H JV
TRATI*
ALL CYCLISTS
should note that
the new :: ::
VULCANISED
Duniop Tyres
are absolutely the finest yet seen in
Australasia. They are manufac-
tured by machinery under a
hydraulic pressure of 1200 lbs. to
the square inch, thus rendering
parting of Rubber and Fabric an
impossibility.
No More * *
Tyre Troubles
The new Vulcanised Dunlop will
prevent most of the troubles usually
associated with pneumatic tyres.
The Vulcanised Dunlop is Faster
and more Durable than any other
Tyre procurable.
Ask your agent to show you
a sample.
TJUBB
F
\V\
i
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Tanna the Sentimentalist.
On the occasion of the turning of the first sod
of the Gladstone-Rockhampton line Governor
Chermside was interviewed by certain Kanaka
residents of the Rockhampton district. The
Brisbane Courier thus describes the interview:—
The senior Kanaka, in well-chosen English, reminded
His Excellency that the strong must help the weak, and
explained that they did not want to break up their little
homes, for “ God has told us that it does not matter
where our bodies lay when we die. . . . We approach you
because we are a weak people and you are strong.” The
Islanders, after some further intercourse with the
Governor, sang together the hymn, “God be with you
till we meet again.”
It is a pity that the people who get up these little
performances so overdo them as to destroy all
appearance of spontaneity. The whole of the pre-
ceding business—right from the speech of the
Kanaka who addressed the Governor “in well-
chosen English ” down to the Moody and Sankey
“God be with you” finale —bears the impress
of being a carefully-rehearsed affair, probably
engineered by some Kanaka missionary, who was
probably engineered by the same crowd that con-
cocted that bogus Kanaka petition of some months
ago. The Philp crowd (in spite of the Rio Loge
6asco) has not yet given up hoping it may persuade
folks that the hapless Polynesian is in imminent
danger of massacre, or expropriation, or being re-
turned with great violence against his will to some
island inhabited by hostile tribes, who kill off
strange Kanakas nearly as quickly as the sugar
industry does.
♦
Queensland Governor Chermside, when up in
the piebald part of his dominions, was bombarded
with numerous pro-Kanaka petitions, some of
them loaded with hard masses of truth. For
instance:—
When we islanders were first brought into Queensland,
the arrangement was that we should serve three years
under an agreement, and at the end of that time the
Government should send us back to our homes. Instead
of doing that, as soon as our three years were up, we had
to enter into fresh agreements with the sugar planta-
tions. According to the law that was passed, we should
have been sent home again at the end of the three years.
The Government carried out the law for a little while, but
then they entered into an agreement with the sugar
plantations, instead of sending us home. If the Govern-
ment had stuck to the law, we would not have had to
bother them now. The Government let us settle down in
this country and buy land without saying anything.
Just so; and Australia doesn’t propose to make
that mistake any more.
Tweedle-Joe and Tweedle-John.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ All Politicians should be brothers,”
Said Mr. See—“except Carruthers.
“ He is, as every one knows well,
A Bounder, and an Ishmael.
“ His hand’s against each honest man—
Like me, and like O’Sullivan.
“ He hates the brilliant Sees and Cricks,
Who are the salt of politics.
“ He never felt the patriot’s fire—
To wipe us out is his desire.
“ And in our places this vain elf
Would put his minions and himself.
“ Then let the hands of true men be
Against Carruthers raised,” said See.
“This Government,” Carruthers said,
“ Has earned a title to be dead.
“ It has, we know, committed crimes
Enough to hang it fifty times.
“ And hanged it certainly would be
If all were patriots like ME.
“ The Sees, O’Sullivans, and Cricks,
Have made a mock of politics.
“ The public coin they’ve sloshed around,
And like a penny spent a pound.
“ A doctor when he finds that he
Is verging on insolvency,
“ Because no patients he can snare,
Sets up a carriage and a pair,
“ To make the public rush his bell,
Believing he is doing well.
“ ’Tis'on this easy, swindling plan
These doctors act —quacks every man.
“ They sent the country on a spree,
A wild financial jamboree.
“ The cheque is blued, the credit done,
And now the Horrors have begun.
“And New South Wales, through their mistakes,
With bloodshot eyes is seeing Snakes.
“ Wake up, O citizens ! Arise !
And on Carruthers cast your eyes.
“ Inspect him : open wide his vest,
And take the heart out of his breast.
“ And you will find—at least you should—
Engraven there —‘The Country’s Good.’
“ The ship of State, that lubbers steer,
The Rocks of Ruin now is near ;
“ But let Carruthers take the wheel,
And she shall glide on level keel.
“ The Rocks of Ruin she shall clear—
For well your Joe knows how to steer—
“ And wafted by a gentle gale
Into the Port of Promise sail.
“ My bleeding country, chuck up See,
And cling to Joseph — cling to ME.”
CREEVE ROE.


/T c i
Qxrricd
Una»» fll#
<soine/v
<soup
%
D
©Ks&EEjnrss
are Hre
Best & Most Popular
Smoke
tw
St
&
*
A
A
's'.
\
yfi
A
4.
y
m.
m.
\
&
P
A
Xa
is*
\<i
&
*^afLS
&
\l¥
&
V?
sxr
a
£
Fragrancy and Sweetness,
These are distinctive features of Guinea Gold Cigarettes—you get that delightfully delicate aroma and fresh, sweet flavor which can only be found in
cigarettes which are made from the very best of mild Virginia Tobacco Leaf. As we use only the finest leaf, without adding objectionable flavoring
matter, the result is as above—fragrant and sweet Cigarettes, which stand alone and are unapproached by others in these respects.
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD. (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
I CURE PAIN!
Hi*'
Vv
in""'"''
""iiiiii iiiimnnn" 0 ""
Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only never-failing 1
■ cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back or
Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder and Stomach
Troubles, Pains in the Head, and all those ailments from
which men and women suffer. It cures after all other
remedies have failed.
I Don’t Ask Anyone to Take
Chances on my Invention.
It Doesn’t Cost You Anyth'ng
if I Fail.
All you lose is your time, and if my Belt fails to cure,
you will have the satisfaction of knowing that the best,
strongest and finest electric body appliance in the world
- ONE WITH 50,000 CURES TO ITS CREDIT- has
failed, and that there is no cure for you in electricity.
Remember, my terms are—PAY WHEN CURED.
call TO-DAY and test my Belt Free. No charge for consultation.
FREE BOOK.—If you cannot call, write for my beautifully-illustrated Medical Book, which
explains my method of treatment, and how to regain your strength without using drugs. Every adult
should read it. It is sent sealed, Free. WRITE TO-DAY.
The Dr. J. H. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
, #
£Ssl
m
. •■.
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE ■ 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
cured by taking He r r Rassmussen’s ALPALINE Vitality Pills which have cured so many
POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
_• u: 0 hlj j 1 - a ren gth. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
nnmrriiininnfL ix/ifh h\rl *fU V 1 C j P patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair, but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALF ALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
t) Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
rt ASbMLbbLN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL FILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-Tamed, and his PILE POWDERS never Tail ; 6s. per box each.
The ALF ALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . . .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office-
547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N-Z.; 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH = 481 Hay St.
KALGOORLIE : 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.
The “ Absent-minded Beggar” fund has
broken out again in London under a new name—
a name that is an awful satire on the howling
“ patriotism ” of years ago. It is now
known as the “Distressed Soldiers’ Fund.” A
distressed soldier is presumably, in most cases, a
“reserve” man who left his billet to go to
S’Africa under promise of being welcomed back
by his Jingo employer if he didn’t happen to die
for the Hempire’s cause.
Edwards, the Camberwell (Eng.) murderer,
when sentenced to death showed a disposition to
resent having a judicial homily added to that
punishment. From a newspaper account: —
“ Guilty,” said the foreman, and Edwards moistened
his lips and remarked, “Simply rot.”
“ Have you anything to say why sentence of death
should not be passed,” demanded the clerk.
Edwards replied shakingly, scarcely above a whisper,
“ Right you are. Get on with it as quick as you like.”
Then, as the black cap was placed on the judge’s head,
he stiffened and exclaimed, with an attempt at jaunti-
ness, “Why, it’s like being on the stage.”
His Lordship proceeded: “Prisoner at the bar, the
jury have found you guilty of this crime—the only verdict
possible according to their oaths and their duty to their
consciences.”
Edwards : “ Good ! Right you are ! ”
His lordship proceeded to speak of the career of crime
thus brought to a close, and Edwards said, impatiently,
“ Look sharp ; get it over! ”
His Lordship: “It now remains for me to pass sen-
tence upon you in accordance with the law."
Edwards : “Go on ; set ’em alight, guv’nor t ”
To the formal sentence Edwards remarked : “Ha, ha !
what a farce ! Ha, ha! ”
The Bulletin is still waiting for that lawyer to
arise who will appeal on the ground that the law
only allows hanging, and that hanging and being
jawed at great length by his Honor as well is an
illegal and double-barrelled punishment.
The appointment of J. Lionel Fegan
makes three Honorary Ministers in the See
Government. See’s is the first N.S.W. Govern-
ment that has kept Honorary Ministers without
portfolios. In the other States the unemployed
gratis Minister has long been an institution.
George Turner, of Victoria, once had five of them
simultaneously, but three were M.’sL.C. who had
to be bought with the cheap distinction in order
to prevent the Upper House being unanimously
hostile. The most interesting of the present
N.S.W. trio is Honorary Minister Bennett, who
apes port r olio rank, and alludes to himself as the
Minister of Forestry or Felled Timber or Sleeper
Getting or something—at all events, the job
carries with it a suite of rooms in the Mines
building.
Mr. Edden, deputy leader of the N.S.W.
Labor party:
People seemed to be under the impression that the
Labor party was encouraging- the Government in extrava-
gance ; but as a matter of fact he was the first to object
to pensions for highly-paid civil servants, and it was his
party which Opposed the Bill to increase the Railway
Commissioner, Mr. Kirkcaldie’s, salary from £l5OO to
£2OOO.
A very ineffective reply. The N.S.W. Labor
party is not charged with encouraging extrava-
gance in the payment of brains : but it is more
than suspected of a tendency to sweat brain-
workers and to aspire to getting judges, managers
and administrators at a pound a day. And that
ultimately leads to the greatest extravagance.
But what the L.P. is accused of is this—that it is
willing to let the Government borrow money to
employ labor on work, whether it is useful or not,
instead of striving to force the employment of
labor in the profitable production of the goods
which we now import.


England has started a National Association
to consider what may happen to the country’s
food supply m time of war, and at its very first
meeting these awkward remarks were thrown
at it:
It is of no use to look back to former wars, and tell
people what was done then. The conditions ire com-
pletely changed. Take the case of the Crimean war Thi.
population then was 28,000,000 only. We grew 16 000 oon
quarters of corn at home. We imported 3,000,000 Quar-
ters from abroad. Now the population is more than
40,000,000 ; but, instead of the 16,000,000 quarters I hate
referred to, we grow only 6,000,000 to-day, and are
obliged to buy nearly 25,000.000 from abroad ThatT is
rather a heavy price to pay for the blessings of Freetrade
Just before the Commonwealth began
business, Victoria passed a law providing that
every Victorian civil servant taken over by the
Australian Government should be paid at the
highest rate paid to any man of his class anywhere
in the Commonwealth—even if the other man
received the special rate paid to civil servants in
the most expensive goldfields districts of Westra-
lia. Westralia went one better by giving all the
civil servants it handed over to the Commonwealth
the nght to three months extra holidays on full
pay, or six months on half pay, everv six years—the
result being that almost every Westralian civil
servant taken over is now demanding six months
holiday. And while it has burdens like these to
carry, people want to know why the Australian
Government doesn’t run things at a cheaper rate.
A North of Ireland man, born and bred in
black and bitter Belfast, who carries with him
three vivid scars (a stab caused one, a knife
another, a stone the third) as signs of the religious
enthusiasm of his early associates, is fond of warn-
ing his fellow-workmen in Australia against
sectarianism. He was brought up in the thick of
it, when almost every Sunday there was a row
between Orange and Green, and to hate your
neighbor for God’s sake was the one recognised
mark of the true Christian. Being a fine hand at
‘bullet-throwing” (a Belfast sport—throwing a
slug of lead, weighing some three pounds, the
greatest distance and with the greatest accuracy)
he was an Elder and a Deacon at a very
early age, and might have been a minister
and secured great advancement in his church
but that a pernicious habit of reading radical
literature weaned him from delight in sectarian
rows. There was a noble religious career in Bel-
fast in those days for a young man who could
throw a stone straight for a long distance ; but he
lost his brilliant prospects by reading and
absorbing a little liberal education. Now, in his
middle age, and in supposedly enlightened Aus-
tralia, he is disgusted to find that the Macky-
Moran propaganda is reviving the rows which
made life a sultry hell and a loud and bitter howl
in the North of Ireland.
WHICH WAY
DO YOU LOOK?
I
///
Clarence
H
A
R
T
63 Reynolds Street, Balmain,
Sydney, September 16th, 1902.
Dear Sirs : My two boys caught cold,
which was followed with whooping-
cough and the much-dreaded pneumonia.
Both were very seriously ill; and one of them,
we seriously thought, could not be saved.
However, on giving Scott’s Emulsion regu-
larly and persistently, we reached the
intensely gratifying result that both were
cured and thoroughly restored to good health
and strength. Faithfully yours,
(Signed) Mrs. Jessie E. Hart.
Messrs. Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent Street, Sydney.
WHICH WAY DO YOU LOOK
when wanting a remedy for the trouble that is
distressing your home ? Naturally, you look
straight to the point, and only need, in case
you do not know, to get a proper hint. In all
cases of disease, where the lungs or throat are
concerned, go straight to the point and get the
right remedy, Scott’s Emulsion. One who has
seen the cure performed has just told you so.
We need not occupy your attention with re-
marks on the diseases of the throat and lungs
common to this climate; what is really of
value to you to know is the name of the remedy.
That name is
SCOTT’S EMULSION. It W 1„ , ct
for you in those dreaded illnesses in a very
marvellous manner; from the start, working
steadily, surely, and patiently, until the cure
is obtained It has thwarted attacks of those
dreaded diseases all over the civilised globe.
It is doing so daily in Australia. You have
one precaution only to take; and that is, to
see that on the wrapper of the bottle there is
a picture of a man carrying a big cod-fish ; if
that cod-fish is not there you are not getting
what we promise you—a cure! You can
obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion, and the
choicest children’s booklet of the year, “A
Bunch of Roses,” beautifully printed in
colors, by sending sd. to Scott and Bowne,
Ltd., 483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mention-
ing this paper. All chemists se. Scott’s
Emulsion.
MIDDLE AGE.
Joints grow stiff—Twinges of Gout—Rheumatic
Pains—Digestive troubles—Disinclination for
exertion—Backache.
THE CAUSE. THE CURE.
ot J N th , ma] .? of cases when a person gets to be over the age of forty, a diminution of energy
subtly makes itself felt. Nothing particular to grumble about, but still there is something that
torces mm to admit to himself that he is not as young as he was. In a large proportion of
instances, however, the advance of middle age is heralded in a more emphatic manner. The
joints become stiff twinges of Gout are felt, Rheumatic and Neuralgic pains begin to trouble
tnem, there is a sharp pain in the back when rising from a stooping posture, a good meal is
eaten with the consciousness that presently they will be sorry that they ate it, the bladder
ecomes weak, and there is pain, difficulty, or unwonted frequency in passing urine. Now,
although there is, unfortunately, no means of preventing the advance of age, it is possible to
ward oft its effects for a long period if adequate care is taken to see that
THE KIDNEYS AND THE LIVER
are in good working order. When these vital organs are efficiently p rforming their office the
encroachments of age are always gradual and painless.
. The Kidneys. It is the duty of the kidneys to rid the body of cer ain urinary poisons. The
kidneys of the average person filter from the blood about three pints of water every day. In this
water should be dissolved waste matter, produced by the wear and decay of the tissues, to the extent
of one ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains, in weight, of uric acid, and other animal and mineral
matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. If the kidneys are weak or diseased a
certain proportion of this waste urinary matter remains in the system and causes us to suffer from
C !; out ' Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Anamia,
Debility, Gravel, Stone and Bladder Troubles. When the kidneys are properly doing their
work none of these complaints can exist, as the causative poisons are then duly removed in a natural
manner.
People approaching middle life are very prone to suffer from kidney diseases, the commonest first
sympt om of which is
PAIN IN THE BACK.
A simple test to make as to the condition of the kidneys, is to place some urine, passed the first
thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until the next morning. If it is then cloudy
shows a sediment like brick-dust, if particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural colour, then no
time should be lost in adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes or some other serious
illness will be the result.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Liven was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
bafe Lure. It was realised at the outset of the investigation that it was necessary to find a curative
agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these two organs being so im-
mediately associated in the work of dealing with the waste products of the body. Since the discovery
of Warner s Safe Cure it is not necessary for any one to suffer from any of the complaints mentioned
above as resulting from uric poisoning, nor from Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick-headaclie
nor Blood disorders, which are all caused by the retention of Biliary poisons due to disease or in-
activity of the liver. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver and
all complaints produced by inefficient action of those vital organs.
Mr. Chas. Brown, of 5 Rule Street, Richmond, says:—“For quite ten years I suffered from
kidney and bladder complaint, and, although I consulted doctor after doctor and spent a small fortune
in medicines, I obtained no relief whatever until I began to take Warner’s Safe Cure. I had great
difficulty in passing water. As soon as I started taking Warner’s Safe Cure, the trouble I suffered
from was greatly relieved. I continued to take the medicine regularly, and soon a marked
improvement in my health took place. I am now as nearly in perfect health as I can ever expect to
be. lam very thankful that I heard of Warner’s Safe Cure, and more thankful still that I gave it a
trial, as I despaired of ever obtaining relief.”
A treatise setting forth full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and the diseases it
will be sent free on application by H. H. Warner and Co., Limited, Australasian Branch
bourne, Vic. ’
cures,
Mel-
W RPATd
w
CIGA&TEa
TOBACCO.
Smoking Mixture, Mild, Medium and Full.
HAND MADE
FREE FROM DUST
CIGARETTES.
“MY DARLING),”
“ASTORIA,”
“ QUO VADIB,”
“WALDORF,”
No 999,
No. 555.
Manufactured by the ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LONDON.
KING MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft to 80ft overall
s=
s --v
Noiseless Uuderwater. ,
Exhaust
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENGINE-ONE LEVER CONTROLS'THE WHOLE.
MOI3E R M O 1* T & Co TVT F* A, y,
30 PITT BTREET, SYDNEY.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT <
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
NEVER RAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book •
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES"
CURED
The Inky Way.
In these days ot degenerate journalism, when the
poundkeepers attack of jim-jams and the funeral of the
sanitary man are duly recorded in the “ Personal ” column
ot the dailies, it is not often that one comes across a per-
so.^,w"° 18 efger to back up his or her desire for publicity
with £ s. d. Such a ram avis happened in at the
Bendigo Independent office one day recently, and in-
quired how much it would cost to secure a paragraph
about her son .Johnny, who had faHen down and cut his
leg. That woman had a proper conception of the value
of newspaper space, and provided a hint which every
reputable journal should act upon. If James Smith
desires to inform his friends that he is going to Sorrento
or is about to have a new washhouse erected, let him do
it at the ordinary advertising rates.
• * » »
Melbourne pressmen who helped their employers to
tight the great fight for “ economic reform ” have them-
selves suffered in the general depreciation of work values
which has resulted. Their wages have not actually been
reduced, but have remained quite stationary. It‘is said
that at the usual “ rise ” time, a couple of months ago,
both morning dailies failed to shell out anj'thing extra to
deserving employees. Also, the man who worked up the
whole Kyabram “reform” boom for his journal, and
organised more than two-thirds of the enthusiastic two-
men-and-a-dog meetings of which it consisted at the
beginning, was promptly sent about his business as soon
as there was no further use for him in the creation of
popular sentiment.
* • * W
Curious, the limitation of journalistic faculties. Dr.
W. H. Russell, Nicholas Woods, and Archibald Forbes,
were splendid at description, but all three were failures
in the production of leading articles. Also, Charles
Dickens, unapproachable as a sketch writer, contributed
but two leaders to his newly-established paper, the
London Daily News, and then abandoned the business in
disgust to John Forster. And the converse holds good.
It rarely happens that the leader writer makes any mark
in the attractive descriptive line. An introduction to a
Melbourne Cup Day some ten years ago, by an Age leader
writer, is a never-to-be-forgotten monument of inappro-
priate stolidity. Even David Sjune, whose taste is for
the solid, carped at it.
* * • •
Thos. Carlyle, on leader writers But indeed the
most unaccountable ready-writer of all is, probably, the
common editor of a daily newspaper. Consider his lead-
ing articles ; what they treat of, how passably they are
done. Straw that has been thrashed a hundred times
without wheat; ephemeral sound of a sound ; such por-
tent of the hour as all men have seen a hundred times
turn out inane ; how a man, with merely human faculty,
buckles himself nightly with new vigor and interest to
this thrashed straw, nightly thrashes it anew, nightly
gets up new thunder about it ; and so goes on thrashing
and thundering for a considerable series of years. This
is a fact remaining still to be accounted for in human
physiology. The vitality of man is great.”
* * • m
Buying a country news-organ is not the simple matter
people think. A country newspaper recently changed
hands at close on £6OO. When the buyer “took over”
he found that of the assets the three newspaper corres-
pondentships, worth, all told, 30s. a week, left the office
with the ex-editor, who had opened an office of his own ;
a good portion of the printing customers did likewise ;
while four-fifths of the “ads.” were dummies that had
run out at any period during the previous two years.
* • * *
Grafton (N.S.W.) Grip thus prescribes for the success-
ful running of a country newspaper : “(1) Mix a large
quantity of smoodge with a great quantity of sponge, and
kow-tow to everything and everybody, including the
town pump. (2) Take a great interest in all local move-
ments, especially those to which advertising and job-
printing are attached. (3) Do notcultivate a large mind.
(4) Never adopt an outspoken, independent attitude. (5)
Do not have the courage of your own opinions, and never
give offence even to the local nightman, as he may be a
possible subscriber. By strict attention to these matters
you will go ahead, and your district will stay where it is.
If you cannot follow out these instructions you must put
up with less butter on your bread.”
• * * ■
“Melb.”: I have seen the vore-time reporters’ books
of the Age, in which Howard Willoughby figures with
such forgottens as Lindsay, H. J. Smith, and Horton.
His name is invariably spelt “ Willoby.” Is this merely
the laziness of the staff head? [No, it was his horse-
sense: if a man named Willoughby is to report “The
Society for the Prevention of Christian Knowledge,” the
entry into the “duty book ” might take two lines. Some-
body’s cat's tail has to suffer, and it is the reporter’s. On
some papers Willoughby would have been “ Wbv ”1
+.
One Senator, anyhow, Staniforth Smith,
of Westralia, who isn’t on the Liberal side in
politics, tells Queensland the straight truth about
its black man :
The Kanaka question is a closed chapter in the history
of the Commonwealth Government, and there is no pro-
bability of its being reopened. It is far better that the
section of the Queensland community which desires the
continuance of the traffic should recognise this, instead
of buoying themselves up with delusive hopes.
“THE AGE” THAT SYME BUILT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the Agb that Syme built.
These are the men with brain and pen
who worked on the Aon that Syme built
This is the salary—four pounds ten—
The ayetyeweekiy wage of the men :
Who worked on the Agb that Syme built
These are the hours—fifteen per day—
They had to toil on the Inky Way
cuu ey wantec * to draw the four pounds ten.
( wk ave, ; afr ? weekly wage of the men
Who worked on the Agb that Syme built).
This is the adipose Chief of Staff,
A gema! man with a hearty laugh,
nr^°fi^ ed 5® wa B' es of four pounds ten
(r or fifteen hours of toil per day),
The average weekly wage of the men
Who worked on the Agb that Syme built.
is the Editor, grim and stem
( Who had been ohief of staff in turn),
Who said to his adipose Chief of Staff :
, “7V le . on the men with your genial laugh
Andbnghteii the hours—fifteen per day
Of those who toil on the Inky Way ;
S?®" the £ T"’, 4 srowl at their four Pounds ten
Mind, nobody else but capable men
Must work on the Age that Syme built!»
This is the Manager (down below)
Who really thought that he ran the show :
He said to the Editor, grim and stern :
w f Ca n eful; 'Z e haven ’t Slot money to burn.
Just tell your humorous Chief of Staff
Jjever to spare his hearty laugh
hours—fifteen per day—
Of the team he drives on the Inky Way—
For It sweetens a man on four pounds ten •
And we want none but satisfied men
To work on the Agb that Syme built.”
This is the public that bought the Agb,
And filled each big advertisement page.
They met the manager down below,
Who impressed on them that he ran the show.
They knew not the Editor, grim and stern
Or the man on a two hours gallery “ turn.”
They knew not the adipose Chief of Staff
i rom a kangaroo or a blue giraffe ;
They know not the hours—fifteen per day
Of the slaves who toil on the Inky Wav ;
They knew not staff-wages were four pounds ten
(And often less) for the capable men
Who worked on the Age that Syme built
This is the Argus, up the street,
Whose mission it was the Age to beat;
It knew the manager (down below),
IX knew that he did not run the show •
It knew the Editor, grim and stern,
It knew that he had a lot to learn ;
It knew the genial Chief of Staff ’
(That adipose man with the hearty lau°h) •
It knew of the hours—fifteen per day— 5 '
Of those who toil on the Inky Way ;
It knew the wages were four pounds ten,
And—it offered more to the capable men,
So they left the Agb that Syme built.
VIC.
O. C. CABOT.


Push's Queensland Almanac for 1903 proves
to be even fuller than usual of valuable information
about that part of Australia which at present groans
under the dual inflictions of Philp and the Piebald. There
are trade directories for Brisbane and every other town in
the State. A list of all the Parliamentary Acts passed
since the granting of Constitutional Government
nished, and railway, postal, telegraphic, and telephonic
information is laid on liberally. A specially useful and
highly-commendable feature of the work is the section
“ Queensland Men of the Times,” in which a short
account is given of living men who have raised a dust m
high places. This section makes interesting reading,
partly because of the things reported about these men ,
partly because of the unreported things that the reported
things remind us of.*
Amusements.
H E MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
now on view at
KING STREET ARCADE CORNER,
and
74 OXFORD STREET.
Real Life Portrayed with a Vividness and Realism
Never Before Witnessed.
ZW ADMISSION FREE. ___________
JHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON and Mr. GEO. MUSGROVE
have great pleasure in announcing that they have com-
pleted arrangements for the production of their
GRAND COMBINATION PANTOMIME
on SATURDAY, APRIL 11,
entitled,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices as Usual.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 11,
the World-Famed Farcical Comedy,
ARE YOU A MASON ?
Introducing to Sydney playgoers Mr. Williamson’s
NEW COMEDY COMPANY,
headed by the Famous English Comedian,
MR. GEORCE CIDDENS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as Usual.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
Representative .. .. .. .. Mr. Mayne.
Agent Mr. H. P. Lyons.
FRANK THORNTON COMEDY SEASON.
UNRIVALLED HOLIDAY ATTRACTION.
CHARLEY’S ATJWT.
From Brazil where the nuts come from.
EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 11, 1903.
EVERYBODY’S FAVORITE PLAY,
THE QUEEN OF LAUGHMAKERS,
CHARLEY’S AUNT.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PRICES— Ss., 3s. 2s. and Is. Early doors (from 7to
7.30, Is. extra. Ordinary Doors, 7.30. Overture, 8.
Carriages, 10.30. Children under 7 not admitted. j
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
STUPENDOUS EASTER ATTRACTION
COMMENCING SATURDAY, APRIL 11.
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation
in the largest great Adelphi Success,
A Woman of Pleasure.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
EASTER MONDAY, APRIL 13,
GRAND SPECIAL MATINEE, commencing 2 p.m.
Town hall, Sydney, Monday next (Easter
Monday), 13th APRIL, at 8 p.m. Under Vice-Regal
Patronage. Great Easter Attraction. The Concert of the
Season. GRAND FAREWELL COMPLIMENTARY
CONCERT tendered to Sydney’s Gifted Young Soprano,
MISS HILDA MULLIGAN, who sang with great
success before Madame Melba, and who is shortly leaving
for Europe to study Grand Opera under Madame Marchesi.
Popular Programme of Unusual Excellence. Vocal and
Instrumental Concert, assisting artists : Miss Kathleen
Morven, Miss Hilda Bevege, Messrs. Henry Weir, Harold
J. Reeves, Cyril Monk, Herr Scheinpflug, W. G. Farrell,
Kohblanck(by kind permission of J. C. Williamson, Esq.).
Accompanists, Messrs. J. Edward Sykes and Leslie
Kelleway. Prices, 35., 25., Is. Plan and Tickets at
Paling’s. Doors open at 7 p.m. Purchase your tickets at
Paling’s to avoid crush at doors. Robert Kohblanck,
Manager.
CITZGERALD B R O S.’
■ HUGE MOVING CIRCUS CARAVAN,
together with
THE NEW AMERICAN, LONDON, AND CONTINENTAL
HIPPODROME AND MENAGERIE.
LOCATION—
BELMORE PARK, SYDNEY,
THE NEW COMPANY.
A SPLENDID SUCCESS.
The Great Sensation, the Strongest Man in the World,
HERR PAGEL. The Flying Meteors, Mademoiselle
Onra, Little Selig, Gilleno, Eric and Reano, The Marottos,
Zenobia Bros., Benato.
Besides these Star Acts there are specially engaged
Equestrians, Equestriennes, Jongleurs, and Jongleuses,
Acrobats, Knockabout Clowns, Dummies, Pedros, Jockeys,
Pantomimists, Leapers.
THE NATURAL HISTORY ANNEXE
contains Animals from all parts of the World.
The Splendid Band, under Herr Von Der Mehden,
Every Evening. Matinees, WEDNESDAY, SATURDAY,
and ALL HOLIDAYS. PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and Is.
Box Plan at Paling and Co.’s.
HAL GEORGE, Secretary. FRANK JONES, Agent.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
" Sole Proprietor and Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
SATURDAY NIGHT.
NEW FIRST PART-LAWN TENNIS.
First Appearance of SEELEY and WEST, RODDA PERRY
and H. C BUCKLER
Magnificent Success of HILL and SYLVAINY.
Reappearance of SAM HOLDSWORTH.
OS’ PRACTICALLY A NEW COMPANY.
p ICKARDS’
NEW OPERA
MELBOURNE.
HOUSE,
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
Enthusiastic Reception of MISS CRACIE EMMETT.
Splendid Success of SEELEY and WEST, JOHN COLEMAN
ICHENK BROS., ERNEST FITTS, MISS RAY JONES,
and all members of Company.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is. '&-J
Plan at Allan’s.
.amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBdui?NE~^
r Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musg’rove.
SATURDAY, NEXT, APRIL 11,
First Production in Australia of Shakespeare’s Delirhlf
Comedy, • nciul
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.
By Mr. George Musgrove’s New English Company
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
-THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
1 Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Return of the Bland Holt Dramatic Company,
The Season will open with a Grand Production of the
Great Sporting Drama,
THE PRODIGAL DAUGHTER.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson ’
Bus. Manager, Gbo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait,
LAST NIGHTS of THE CEISHA (April 8 and 9).
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 11, Mr. Williamson’s Comic
Opera Co. in
M A MIE ROSETTE,
With an Almost Entirely New Cast.
PRICES AS USUAL. Hsli Box Plan at Allan’s.
Bijou theatre” Melbourne!
“ The Home of Laughter.”
Management of Willoughby and Geach
STARTS EASTER SATURDAY STARTS.
With the Laughing Success of Three Continents
MISTAKES WILL HAPPEN.
(By Special Arrangement with Mr. Charles Arnold).
There is Nothing Funnier than the Funniest
THIS IS THE FUNNIEST.
yyiRTH’S GROUNDS, MELBOURNE.
WIRTH’S
Mammoth Circus
is Booming
The Audiences the Largest, the Tents the Biggest, and
the whole Show acknowledged by Press and Public
THE FINEST AND MOST COMPLETE EVER SEEN
IN THE COLONIES.
THE FAMOUS HOWARD BROTHERS,
WITHOUT THEIR EQUAL IN THE WORLD.
Never before in the annals of Circus Entertainment has
such a furore of excitement been caused as by
these Wonderful Men.
RECORD ATTENDANCES—2O,OOO in the First Week.
TRULY A BOOM ! TRULY A BOOM!!
Matinees—Wednesday, Saturday, and Easter Monday.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
G. L. Petersen, Agent. E. Erskine Scott, Representative.
rpHE GREATEST LIVING ENGLISH TENOR,
fir. EDWARD LLOYD
Under the direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson and
Mr. Geo. Musgrove,
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE,
Easter Saturday, Easter Monday,
Wed., April 15, and Fri., April 17.
Prices—7/6, 5/-, and 2/6. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
And by
Special Appointment
Mrs. William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dancing, Deportment, Craceful
Carriage, Etiquette and Calisthenic Exercises.
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arranged for at
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended.
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus—
“ Ellerslie,” 100 Nicholson-st., Fitzroy._
Business Announcements.
ESTABLISHED 57 YEARS.
Roofing Felt, 75ft. by 32in., Bs. roll.
Large Stocks of Galvanised Wire Netting.
Copper Boilers up to 120 gallons.
Black Galvanised Steam Piping, J to Bin.
Bullock, Leading, Drag, Back Chains, 2d. lb.
250 Tons Bolts and Nuts, up to 30in. long.
Good Quality Hand Pumps, 6s. each.
Mixed Paints, 3d. lb., Black Paint, £l6 ton.
Good Quality Fuse in Cases, 300 coils, lid. coil.
Octagon Steel, lin. dia., £2O ton.
Black Hoop Iron, % to 1-16, £lO 10s. ton.
Wire Nails, slightly damaged, 9s. cwt.
Hurd’s 71b. American Axes, ss. each.
Wooden Split Pulley Wheels, 20in. dia., ss. each.
Flanged Steel Wheels, 30in. and 36in.
6 Tons If Galvanised Hoop Iron, £l5 10s. ton.
Clear a few Coils Steel Wire Rope, cheap.
Large Stock of Iron Lifting Blocks.
John macintosh and Sons,
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers, Builders,
Contractors, Engineers, Blacksmiths,
Plumbers and Gasfitters, Cabinet Makers, and
General Ironmongery and Painters’ flateria,
307, 321, 323, 325, 276, 278 PITT ST.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful
scopics, etc. List with 100 ill
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
55., P. 0.0, or stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Cermany.
Hypnotism
Render, why not l,e »'
most mysterious and P« w f CIU lesrn
nature f By my method y«n ca with .
to Hypnotize in a few hour ' 4 ™, n per-
out leaving your home. ,“ on , featl
form all the XHypnotist,
that are possible to c „„disease
Through Hypnotism yon affection,
conquer pain; w-in rel
gratify y°«r amhitions,
amusement by the hot • J have
nothing to « nd rot all about
just issued In took fo, t 0
illustrated LESSOR or v
Hypnotism, whieh fuUy
the mysterie. and secret*
of the Art. 14 eontaine
hundreds of b “ ut !'’?' *J}a
artistic engraving, and is the most ela
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
post&ge. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
a
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN, &
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
69
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth,
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, od-
Melba’s announced determination to sing no more in
Australia was foretold by the fact that she didn’t give
the ss. concert at Melb. Exhibition Building, which was
said to have been fixed for March 28th, ere she started on
her Maoriland trip. All the same, Melba is a woman,
after all, and her “determination” is not necessarily
unalterable. Having gone up like a rocket, she will be
loth to splutter out like a damp squib. _ Why not a two-
and-sixpenny farewell at the Exhibition ? 20,000 half-
crowns are £2500.
Poor Kate Vaughan died at Johannesburg, poverty
stricken. And yet S’Africa nowadays abounds in middle-
aged military Gussies who knew dainty Kate when she
was a popular actress and Gel. Wellesley’s wife.
In an amusing assault case heard at Melb. City Court
last week it transpired that a highly mettled spinster had
banged Strong-man Pagel with her ’brella till it broke,
because he pushed her away from the cage of his thought-
less young lion. It also transpired that the lion was a
condensed milk baby. Pagel bought the tawny pet when
he was only six months old and Mrs. P. reared him on the
bottle. Which possibly explains why the growing youth
is so fond of putting his paws through the cage to grab
any available bystander. Much milk from the cow has
made him innocent and calf-like.
Mrs. Kate Hart, one of the Sisters Leoni, once here
with Rickards’Tivoli co., recently sued for a divorce, in
England. She stated that she was a Roman Catholic, and
declared that her husband, a Protestant, used to force
meat down her throat on fast-days.
Adelaide Theatre Royal celebrates its 35th. birthday
on April 13th. It was opened by Geo. Ooppin’s co. which
included Rogers, Greville, Coppin himself, and Mdlle.. St.
Denis (who afterwards committed suicide.) First night
was devoted to “ All that Glitters is not Gold,” and
second to “Aurora Floyd.” Eloise Juno was leading lady,
of the second co. that put in an appearance at this
theatre.
“ E.F.” : In his correction of the original Kate Vaughan
paragraph, “ S.T.S.” is himself strangely incorrect.
Nellie Farren never “ shone in the line of a London street
arab.” She was a Gaiety burlesque-boy—“ principal
boy ” —first, last, and all the time. And a trim burlesque
boy, with even the hoarsest of voices, doesn’t resemble
the street arab of any city under the sun. Once in a way
Nellie Farren would play a dirty-faced young person,
with boots down at the heel, but then it was a girl she
represented, notably “ Nan, the Good for Nothing.”
Doubtless “ S.T.S.” was thinking of Fanny Leslie, who
made a specialty of musical street-urchin parts. He
couldn’t surely have been confusing Nellie Farren with
Jennie Lee, the gifted impersonatress of Jo 1 Jennie
was the one unrivalled artist in the arab line of character,
but she didn’t associate her Jo with song and dance busi-
ness.
The “ wrong ” Robert Henry Nichol—professionally
known as Robert Henry—who introduced “ silver coin ”
dramatic performances to Sydney and suburbs, has been
prohibited for ever by Justice A. H. Simpson from pro-
ducing “The Wrong Mrs. Wright.”
Miss “Ruby de Vere” (Radford), stage office, 16 York-
st., Covent Garden, London, inquires as to the where-
abouts of her father, a miner, whom she last heard of at
Adams’ Gully, near Cromwell, Maoriland.
Irving’s “Dante," at Drury Lane, London, is to cost
£lO,OOO for scenery alone ; costumes, etc., will add
hugely to that cost. And the actors—but what do the
actors matter ? It is to be a spectacular play.
Some recently-published reminiscences of the brilliant
but ill-starred Oscar Wilde state that his last play—since
produced in England with another person’s name attached
—was offered to an authoress famed for her epigrammatic
powers. She was to pay Wilde a certain sum down and a
part of the royalty, keeping the rest in return for the
loan of her name, so that the great aggregate snuffle of
England might not know, or might pretend not to know,
that it was patronising a play by the man who had been
in gaol. She refused the proposal, and said that to rob a
writer of the credit of such a masterpiece would be
monstrous. In the end a name was borrowed ; but other
things were borrowed, too, and Wilde never received a
copper.
Robert Courtneidge has come out to Australia this time
in a holiday spirit for the purpose of staging the two
Shakesperian productions—“ Midsummer Night’s Dream”
and “ As You Like It ’’—which Musgrove bought from
him in Manchester. The management of two theatres
during the past few years has not aged Courtneidge,
although he sorely needed a rest, he says. In fact, he
looks rather younger with a moustache than when he
made his farewell appearance at Melbourne Princess’s as
farmer Rocco in “ The Mascotte.” Then he was an actor,
“ painting his nose red and calling himself a low come-
dian ” (as Snazelle used to say of himself), or, on occasion,
playing a Scotch character part in higher comedy. One
didn’t expect that Rocco would return to Australia in the
capacity of a classic-play producer, steeped in Shake-
sperian traditions, and so forth. Before he left Man-
chester the reformed frivoller was presented with an
address enclosed in a casket of most serious design,
whereon the head of the Immortal Bard is engraven.
When he looks at that handsome compliment Court-
neidge pensively scratches the nose he used to paint red.
From London, regarding certain people known in Aus-
tralia Charles Arnold and his wife have settled down
in a charming home in Kent, which has been christened
“ Coo-ee ” because the money which purchased it was
earned in Australia.—Mr. Sharp, once one of the Arnold
co., is now studying for the Bar at the Inns of Court. —
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas and Miss Hope Mayne go to South
Africa in March with Sach’s co. to play in “If I were
King” and “ Mice and Men.” —Miss Bensusan, just arrived
from New York, leaves also for S. Africa with her brother
at the end of the month. —Florence Schmidt, who marries
Derwent Wood on the 25th March, is busy furnishing a
lovely little house in South Kensington.—Lillian Wheeler
plays in the curtain-raiser that precedes “The Marriage
of Kitty” at Wyndham’s Theatre. —Hetty Holroyd has
been very ill in Milan with influenza. She is fairly on the
road to recovery now.
“ Royalties on tour ” —it takes a daily column now to
tell it all. “A procession of historic barges,” “a pro-
cession of warships ”; it reminds one of how, when
interest flags and business falls away, the touring circus
man harnesses his six white horses to the red van, and
produces his tall hat, and gives the band an extra beer to
hit the drum harder than usual, and so wakes up the
tired, unsympathetic town.
“ Gnark ” : A par. re the Beatty girls in your last issue
is to me an interesting example of the prudence which
guides even young actresses (or actors) in speaking of
their ages. They look ahead. Not satisfied with being
young at present, they already begin to make arrange-
ments for being young in the future. The par. in ques-
tion states that “ May Beatty is just 21, being two years
younger than her sister Maud.” Excuse my cough. The
first and la«t time I had the pleasure of seeing Maud
Beatty as a juvenile comic-operatist (sister May was also
figuring on the programme) she played Guiseppe, the bari-
tone character in “The Gondoliers,” and because she was
so well-grown and matured in her style I expressed
grave doubts as to her juvenility. An introduction to
the damsel was the result of this scepticism. Mr. Tom
Pollard called the blushing Maud forth from her dress-
ing-room, and when I asked her, in a blunt, parental
tone, how old was she, Miss Maudie replied, “ Fifteen.”
Also, she smiled a cute and winsome—not to say wicked
—smile, which seemed to say she had been 15 for several
months. But I will drop those extra months out of the
calculation. The occasion in question may have been
Miss Maudie’s fifteenth birthday. Anyway, it was the
night of her first appearance with Pollard’s Lilliputian
Opera 00. at Melbourne Princess’s, and I find, on looking
up the programme, that the date was Oct. 15, 1892.
Therefore I cough again.”
A narrow escape from arrest had Nellie Stewart. The
lady was sued by a suburban medico for five guineas, pro-
fessional fees. She refused to pay, did not defend, and
allowed judgment to go by default. As Australia’s Nellie
was announced to sail on Saturday for Maoriland, an
application was made to Judge Rogers for a ca. sa. order
for her arrest. The Judge issued the order, but mercifully
allowed it to lie low until 2 o’clock. By that time Miss
Stewart had paid up.
The first modern circus was at the old Olympic Theatre,
London, built by Philip Astley with the timbers of a
condemned man-of-war ship.
There probably wasn’t a man in Australia
who knew more of either pastoral finance or of the
holes there are in the States’ land laws than
George Moore, the Union Bank’s station inspector,
who fell from a Cobar hotel balcony, the other
day, and was killed while there were still years of
hard work in him. For many years he kept his
eye on Goldsbrough, Mort’s squattages, and knew
practically every holding in Eastern Australia.
When the N.S.W. Land Appeal Court was con-
stituted Moore was among those “tipped” fora
seat as squatters’ representative, but he declined
to push his claims, and continued his life’s work
of overhauling hopeless station accounts, and
puzzling out how to make one cheap man manage
about eight holdings.
Patents for Inventions.— Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
The Cardinal had his nightshirts stolen last
week, and the Evening News published a full
description of the “ broad-collared, ermine-lined
robes de nuit, marked with P.X.M. on the south-
west corner.” Next day a letter and a parcel
arrived at the presbytery, and Dean O’Haran read
that, “ Touched by the enormity of his crime, the
penitent thief begged to return the sacred vest-
ments.” “ They’ve been sent back, your Emin-
ence.” “Bless me!” piped the aged prelate,
“how remarkable!” But the parcel only con-
tained some relies of the Moore Park tip. It was
doubtless a wicked and nasty joke of the P.D. A.
Some curious anomalies have arisen out
of the recent examinations in connection with the
Federal service. In one case, a female officer,
placed in charge of a number of others, signally
failed to pass the examination for the minimum-
wage, with the result that, though she still holds
her superior position, she now receives much less
salary than such of her subordinates who did pass.
N.S.W, Art Society.
AUTUMN SHOW.
Atmnra Exhibition of N.S.W. Art Society has
collected a mostly charming set of tame, fed-out-of-
the-hand little artisticisms. There is not one
effort at a really fine picture; but there are very
many neat little, sweet little works, which would
adorn any drawing-room with amiable grace.
Truth is, that this autumn exhibition is designed
not to show what the artists can do, but to see
what they oan sell. There is accordingly an
absence both of the fine effort which comes
close to a great picture and of the weird
monstrosity which represents the perverted
ambition of the ultra-impressionist. Every-
thing has been painted to sell, and so every-
thing strives at an air of quiet prettiness. Some-
times the effort is successful, and there is,
aooordingly, much dainty, graceful, artistic work
on the walls; sometimes it falls just short of
success, and the effect is a futile and rather
irritating pretty-prettiness ; very rarely is there
to be seen anything palpably bad, for this is an
exhibition for sale purposes, and the artist may
stake his hidden soul that a woman should have
the thighs of an elephant and the hair of a clover
meadow, but he won’t stake his chance of a sale on
that contention.
• • • •
Looking at the collection with an eye to its
main object, seeing so much work —291 pictures—
of various grades of merit, one is tempted to roam
through the homes of Sydney and bring them
therein, that they may buy, buy, buy. Anything
in the room oan be had for about 10 guineas, most
of the works (frames and all, and a frame costs
some shillings) for one guinea or two guineas or
three guineas. Yet there are hundreds of houses
where the carpets are rich and the furniture is
expensive and the walls are bare, except for
framed oleographs, or photographic enlargements
of some curious ancestor or some priggish progeny.
And'there are other houses, hundredsof them, which
their owners enter by a carriage drive to the
greeting of a score or so of servants, and their
walls are covered with “ copies of the old masters ”
—atrocious, mechanical Chinese-art sort of things,
ground out in Italian factories under sweating
conditions to meet the demand from Australia and
other countries of the ignorant rich. Pictures—
not great works of art—but pleasant, clever little
bits by men who have done moderately big things
with the brush —Australian pictures, can be had
far more cheaply than the copy of the old master,
almost as cheaply as the photographic enlarge-
ment, or the poor, tinted reproduction. Why
don’t the Australian public buy ?
• • • •
So "much for the main purpose of the show. As
for its Art—well, Art is neither bludgeoned with
atrocity nor seduced with mastery, but is by many
of the exhibitors tickled very pleasantly, and
smiles, as is right. There is a landscape (No. 11)
by Sid. Long with a touch of imagination, and a
moonrise from him showing such color in sky and
land as never was at moonrise except in the Land
of Moonshine. Then one confronts a long series
of Blue Mountain studies by J. Salvana ; praise
to him that, he does study the Blue
Mountains, the enchanted atmosphere of which
will never be really put on canvas until
another Turner comes. Most of Mr. Salvana’s
studies fail very palpably ; others bring some
suggestion of the radiant sky-effects and the vast,
mysterious distances of the great blue range.
Nos. 21 and 60 are, on the whole, his best
attempts. Mr. Lister Lister sends a batch of
effective land and seascapes, not one of them
failing to show quiet merit; he has been experi-
menting with the new Raffaeli solid-oil colors,
and the new medium seems in his hands to be
about as good as the old, and no better. There
are very many exhibitors who have been Lister-
Listering for this show. One can see dozens of pal-
pable imitations of his style—most of them pretty
enough in their way, and some of them likely to
get to the haven of being sold at two guineas. And
Mr. Dattilo Rubbo ‘ ‘ old - mas ter s ” as per ti n aciousl y
for a five guinea as for a 100-guinea show. All
his work (he has seven canvases) is of the same
order, with now very bright and now very dark,
and always very shiny, colors. With a little
judicious “cracking ” of the varnish, Mr. Rubbo’s
pictures would pass in some circles for “old
masters”; “Forget-me-not” shows best of his
work. MN Arthur Collingridge has some very
graceful work in water-color —“Evening” show-
ing best, and “ Mountain Creek, Lithgow,” next.
Miss Sophie Steffanoni has done very well in a
Blackheath sketch. Howard Ashton’s work is not
at all pleasing, too stiff in outline and exaggerated
in color. Fred Leist’s “Sorceress” makes an effort
to be distinguished from the rest of the pictures,
and only calls attention to its failure; but a pastel
from him, “ Red Hat,” is really good. A pleasing
picture, in spite of several defects, is “Love Me,
Love My Dog,” by Edith Cusack : the pose and
coloring of the girl are pleasing. H. G. Gar lick
does very well indeed in “ Kangaroos— Grey
Evening,” good in technique and excellent in
subject. R. Riches has two landscapes, noticeably
rich and effective in coloring. A portrait by A. J.
Fischer is very good. Other commendable work
is from A. J. W. Burgess, W. F. Hughes, G. W.
Hadfield, W. A. Moir (who gets good color with
his “Terrigal Lake”), H. Moore Jones, Henry
Crisp, Mathie Wearne, Alice Norton, and R. M.
Ronald.
• * * *
There is some “black-and-white,” but, except
that some of it is in red chalk, it calls for no
special notice.


MEN’S
DISORDERS.
w
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
The Famous Specialist.
We have cured Thousands of
Cases like Yours M
riIITERE is nothing gained in employing an un-
practical person to do an expert’s task. Nine
times, in ten, FAILURE follows. The average
physician is oftentimes an amateur in the treat-
ment of grave nerve diseases. His time is so fully
occupied in treating a full assortment of human ills
that he cannot devote special study to any particular
branch of practice. Some diseases are sufficiently
simple as to require only the general knowledge
obtained in colleges and general practice.
The More Complex and Perplexing Disorders
are not always favored by the family doctor. He pre-
fers to be relieved of tasks which call for special know-
ledge and special skill.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE,
Physician-in-Chief.
> llie true SPECIALIST is a physician who is absolutely expert in the treatment of a few diseases. He knows all
I about the complaints he treats, and he supervises difficult cases with the same certainty with wnich the general practitioner
I treats a common ailment. ° 1
> For over 30 Years we have been treating Serious Diseases.
e j 3e ° an ou * special work after thorough training in some of the best knowm colleges abroad. We have cured more
menof thrnr troubies than any association of men in Australia. You can come to us feeling certain that we know just
I what to do, that you will be free from malpractice and certain of a cure if one remains for you.
WEAKNESS.
The Functional derangement, commonly
termed “WEAKNESS,” is generally a direct
result from inflammation causing severe pro-
static troubles. The nerve parts governing
the afflicted centres require stimulating.
Sound medical treatment under the
supervision of a skilled SPECIALIST is
required, combined with the wearing of our
specially tested Electric “INVIGORATOR”
or Belt, which pours a current of vital energy
into the weak parts, giving them new life and
strength. Over ninety per cent, of our cases
have been completely cured in this manner.
This “INVIGORATOR,” the best in Aus-
tralia, is ONE POUND ONLY. It is a
genuine Electric Belt, and the only one sold
in Australian medical practice locally certifica-
ted. Duty is paid free to all Australian States.
VARICOCELE.
Men who have for years been afflicted with
Varicocele, can come to us with com-
plete assurance that we will effect a per-
manent cure in a few week’s time, by a
painless and absolutely harndess method.
There is no dangerous operation or detention
from business. We regard each case as a
means of proving our superior skill, and show-
ing the needlessness of a surgical operation.
We will cure you quickly, thoroughly, and
without the need of hospital care.
BLOOD POISON
There are many phases of this complaint
and its origin is sometimes obscure. No
man should trifle if he suffers from any
disorder of the blood. An unhealthy state of
the life fluid of the body sometimes imparts
the worst form of physical and mental disease.
We have special methods of cure. We treat
successfully those cases aggravated by the
tampering of others.
RUPTURE.
Since our practice commenced we have
treated over 2500 cases of Kupture. We cure
many cases without cutting or painful opera-
tions. Our patients seldom have to wear
trusses after our treatment. Of course there
are some cases in which a truss must be worn,
and for those we have on hand the finest,
cheapest, and most comfortable kinds yet
devised by science.
aOOM '3J.nillSNl IVDIDUns 01
OUR MEDICAL INSTITUTE, SYDNEY.
A Bond of £lOOO.
We are under a guarantee bond of £lOOO to faithfully perform all or
any medical contracts that we may enter into. We do not consider any
man cured until he asserts it personally and sends in his testimonial. Of
these we have many thousands, of which a few extracts are here published.
Our Medical Institute, supervised by a Staff of Skilled SPECIALISTS,
is the most scientific in Australia. Over £lOO,OOO has been expended
upon it. Its medical literature embraces an annual disbursement of 25 000
volumes of medical works.
When under treatment you are under the care of an internationally-
registered SPECIALIST, who holds NINE DIPLOMAS AND
CERTIFICATES of qualification and registration by Australian, English
and American Boards.
Sir Dominic Corrigan, Bart., Physician to the late Queen, says of
him : “I entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace respecting his profes-
sional qualifications.”
Read what the
Cured Say!
Hon. Daniel O’Connor, M.P.
Ex-Minister of the Crown, writing from Parlia-
ment House, Sydney, to the Chief of the Medical
Staff, says of our Electro-Medical treatment: —
“I have worn one of your Electric ‘ Belts.’
It has benefited me much. For years I
suffered from acute kidney pains, which have
now, I am happy to say, entirely left me.”
Mr. Philip Newbury,
the great English tenor, now starring in the leading
musical centres, London, writes :
“ For years I have suffered from uric acid
in the blood. Thanks to the wonderful
efficacy of your Electric ‘ INVIGORATOU,’
I am now completely cured.
Mr. Patrick Larkin, J.P.
This gentleman is well known in Sydney as one of
the most active numbers of commercial life. His
word is his bond. He testifies to our treatment in
these terms:—
“ I am satisfied your Electric ‘ Invigorator ’
Belt gives health and vigor to the system. I
wore one, consistent with your instructions,
and it has benefited me much.”
Inspector F. Fowler,
A highly esteemed officer of the Sydney Police
Force, occupying a position of great responsibility as
Chief of the Burwood Division of Police, says :
“Since wearing your ‘Belt’ my health has
greatly improved. I have so much benefited
that I recommended it to my friends.”
A Station Accountant’s
Eulogy.
Mr. S. H. Bernard, accountant on Ganmain Station,
via Wagga, was, to quote his words, “a physical
wreck ” when consulting us. A few months later he
writes in this strain : -
“I am getting on steadily and surely. I
must say for years I Lave not felt so well as I
am now feeling.”
If you are interested in these cases,
write for special brochure, illus rated.
You may find there a case similar to
your own.
ces
Gene
Dise
FREEMAN A
picTro Medical*
S£
<aga
This Book is Your Best Friend,
This famous work is now in its tenth edition. “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES” was first published in 1901. Since
that time over 500,000 volumes have been issued throughout Australia. It is a handsome, exhaustive work, containing over 550
pages letterpress and 150 MEDICAL PLATES. A chapter on Anatomy covers 30 pages. There are life-size diagrams of the
human body and its various functions. There are over 30 chapters upon general diseases, and 20 additional articles upon the
treatment of persons afflicted with SNAKE-BITE, SUNSTROKE, PLAGUE, FEVERS, ABSCESS CONSUMPTION
BLOOD DISEASES, WEAKNESS IN MEN, INSOMNIA, RHEUMATISM, LOSS OF VITAL POWER GOuV
INDIGESTION, Etc.
This Magnificent Work will be POSTED FREE to any Address in Australia
receipt of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS. No Further Charge.
on
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL * ND
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., Physician-in-Chief.
Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly attended to.


London Times has been publishing a serie*
of articles on the “Future of the Army,” in which,
among other things, it is proposed that a force of
12,000 men be stationed in Westralia, for the
defence of one end of the Indian Ocean naval base.
A correspondent dusted the floor with this propo-
sal by reminding the Times that Australians
would not accept the presence of an army corps
paid and maintained by a Parliament on the
opposite side of the world, in which they have no
representatives, and controlled by an Executive
and generals responsible solely to that Parlia-
ment. In short, Australia doesn’t want to have
12,000 bailiffs in possession.
The Hotel Belmont, now being built in
New York, will be the finest in the world—of 27
storeys, with 750 bedrooms. It is to be mosquito
and noise-proof, as vyell as fire-proof, and if it
could only be made proof against the tertium quid
and the co-respondent it would be the boss hotel
of the earth.
The thing that generally happens to a
community when it starts to give concessions to
railway or tramway syndicates is beginning to
happen to Fremantle, in Westralia. So far the
case has given work to only about half-a-dozen
lawyers; but it is very young yet, and looks a
promising infant, capable of doing a lot of
mischief.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals^
Works : Birmmgnam, England
These series
of Pens neither
, scratch nor spurt
[They glide over
[the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Gnre.
FAMOUS FIBM-EXJY jP'OPI
COUGHS, BRONGHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience deligl.tful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it eflects a Complete Cure It is most coin-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
never been known to exist where
and a Complete Cure is certain
BEIWA-FIB 037" COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. Q. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my •ease. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in rny chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
iny.rase to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of jour Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until 1 used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really w onderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerelj’,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Oi&.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of vour Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for nty little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid tnedi-
cin for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness- : »t sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
~ Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne's
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling' quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a botlle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since 1 commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long' distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday'l sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very'good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
atid on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So y r ou see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to sav that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were enLirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker's Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
smj.ll bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be wiihou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcelv ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I bad been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as 1 am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charlevilie,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearties
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of th:s
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 18S3 — 15 years ago—1 hav
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine qui
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:— 1
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
eturn of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
bb.nch offi ce; n O . 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney, Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE
SMELTING » REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (58 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyailide, SlagS, and Jewellers’ Sweep,_gtC.
For a). l Information regarding Rates, apply to t.lre Manager, Head Office, Dafio;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“Bengep’s Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tat on of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
er’s Food
For Infants , Invalids, and the Aged, Delicious , Nutritive . and Digestible .
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from
Letters.
Private
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger s
Food* everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


DRYSDALE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed bv physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Timbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
Next Door
to Impossible
To experience disappointment at the
warehouses of the BAKER & ROUSE
PROPY., 'LTD. The largest stocks
of the highest-class goods in the Commonwealth in
CAMERAS, LENSES, SHUTTERS, PLATES,
PAPERS, fIOUNTS, CHEMICALS, PHONOGRAPHS,
RECORDS, LANTERNS, SLIDES, FIELD-GLASSES,
TELESCOPES, etc., etc.
avoQSuq
•apwiapy
aiunoijiau
■fiaupfig
♦ • ♦
♦ • ♦ AH Lines renewed weekly on arrival of Mail Steamers
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd,
-375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
HEADACHE,
AND CONSTIPATION.
BILIOUSNESS,
FRUIT
ALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—See Capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hava a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J.C.E NO, Ltd.,‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
CLEANSE the SYSTEM of all IMPURITIES
THE BENEFIT OF THE GENUINE.
Read how the genuine Kutnow s Powder restores a Sluggish Liver.
The liver is the mainspring of the system. When it is healthy it is the
®reat purifying organ of the body. When it is not, it is like a poisoned
cesspool, contaminating the entire physical organism.
A healthy liver secretes from two to three pounds of bile daily. Bile is
sent from the liver into the blood to gather up all the impurities. In due time
1 t returns laden with this refuse matter, which the liver secretes and expels
from the system.
When the liver refuses to take back the bile from the blood, Biliousness
is the inevitable result. Biliousness is bile out of place. The bile cannot go
wrong when the liver does its duty. Since the liver is the sieve of the system,
it must be kept clean in order to do its duty.
There is a right way and a wrong way to keep the liver clean and healthy.
Some folks believe in punishing the poor stomach and bowels with powerful
purgatives when the liver lags. This is a wrong idea; the right way is the
rational way.
KUTNOW’S POWDER is a rational remedy for BilioUSn63S, because it
restores natural action of the liver. It cleanses, cools, and strengthens the
liver and bowels. It expels all poisonous deposits and cleanses the systems
from all impurities.
THE REPORT of an EMINENT PHYSICIAN.
£)r. BRACHET, Physician at the Baths of Aix-le-Bains, wrote :
I have prescribed your Powder for about a year in my hospital practice here,
as well as frequently to my private patients. I have obtained the best results
jn patients suffering from sluggish liver, biliousness, and constipation, as Avell
as those from rheumatism and gout. I consider KUTNOW’S POWDER
indispensable to persons travelling.”
Proprietors. 8. KUTNOW & CO.. Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
[5-11]
THE DANGER OF IMITATIONS.
We suppose you prefer facts to fiction ? Facts are stubborn!
We likewise conclude you prefer a genuine article to the imitation !
Therefore in purchasing Kutnow’s Powder, beware of imitations.
Unscrupulous dealers are stocking cheap and worthless imitations of
Kutnow’s Powder for the sake of the extra profit they yield.
None of these preparations are of the slightest use, their action is that of
a mere purge, and their drastic character injures the mucous membrane of the
stomach in the strong and frequently produces entire collapse in the delicate
patient.
To secure the genuine Kutnow’s Powder, ask for Kutnow’s, and if you are
told it is not in stock, but a substitute, so called “just as good,” is offered,
leave the shop and pass your order on to a reliable chemist who will supply the
genuine article.
There is nothing in the whole world to equal Kutnow’s Powder, nothing
stands the test of medical experience like Kutnow’s Powder, and it has been
endorsed by all the leading specialists and physicians, and prescribed for
Members of the Royal Family.
Reject all suggested substitutes and see that you get Kutnow’s Powder.
KUTNOW’S POWDER
The CERTAIN REMEDY for INDIGESTION, BILIOUSNESS CON-
STIPATION, KIDNEY DISEASE, BLADDER TROUBLES ’ URIC
ACID, GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Notice.— After trial and approval, any further supplies of Kutnow’s
Powder can be obtained from all Chemists and Medicine Vendors throughout
the world.
Proprietors in U.S.A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
The Emotions and the Intellect.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Malcolm, Fraser, and Stevens were discussing a
recent shooting case in which a bricklayer (whose
wife had left him for another man) had shot his
faithless spouse.
Malcolm said: “X think the poor beggar was
perfectly justified.
“Whilst sympathising deeply with the poor
devil,’’Fraser drawled, “it seems to me he made
one great error. He should have shot the other
fellow. What’s the good of shooting the woman
and letting the man live who enticed her away ? ”
“Now, in my opinion,” Stevens commenced in
his jocular style,” “you chaps are talking like
beastly barbarians. A woman isn’t a piece of
merchandise; she’s a perfectly free agent, and
even after having been married for some years, as
this woman was, she had a perfect right, as a free
agent, to go wherever her affections ’ led her.
Why can t you look at it in a philosophical way
and see that she was carrying out one of Nature’s
highest laws by leaving the man she disliked to
live with the one she loved. Speaking as a
reasoning being, I think her act quite justifiable
and the man’s act in shooting her quite barbarous ”
“ Yes,” said Malcolm. “ Most of us can agree
with your argument when it refers to the other
man s wife ; but you must remember that there
are always two influences at work, Intellect and
Emotion. You, with your calm philosophical
training, and your naturally unemotional tempera-
ment, are better fitted than this bricklayer to curb
a momentary passion. But this chap’s feelings
got him under, so he shot his wife. I daresay
sorry now.” J
Just suppose for a moment,” Fraser chimed
in, “it was your wife, Stevens, who left you for
another man. With all your fine talk about
philosophy and selection .”
“You chaps misconstrue the point of view I
look from,” Stevens remarked, in that superior
pained tone of his. “ What I was endeavoring
to instil into your particularly thick skulls is that
when a man develops his intellect sufficiently
(understand, Malcolm, I said sufficiently), he
rises superior to the ordinary emotions which tend
to drag every man down to the level of brute
creation.”
Stevens walked to the door without giving them
a chance to respond.
all tlie insufferables I ever listened
to, said Malcolm, laughing.
“It would just serve him right if we ’’ • here
Fraser stopped and chuckled.
“If we what ?” asked Malcolm.
Well, it just struck me,” said Fraser, “that
we could give Steve’s calm, philosophical, un-
emotional temperament a pretty good jar.
.“ Suppose we get Steve’s wife to go over to your
wifes to dinner to-morrow night; and, before
going, let us leave a note for Steve— ‘ tired of life
with you—off with another ’ sort of thing. She
writes that usual woman’s hand—all angles and
spikes—that anybody can imitate. We’ll go
round and just see how calmly Steve’ll take the
news.
111 lay ten to one he forgets how to even spell
philosophy.”
* • * •
The next evening at 8.30, the two conspirators
at ? te u vens ’ house - A trembling
Smitted Tb^ n< l- the d °° r -- They could not he
master yL® po f hce , were m the l.ouse. The
hear! wS d fe 1 fo , und dead * shot through the
head, with a letter clasped in his hand.
FRANKLIN HARDY.
What a treasure is a faithful people ! For
some time past (says Reynolds’s) the P.O.
nearest Buckingham Palace has been kept busy
returning to various senders postal notes addressed
oEd ward. Seems an impression has got
abroad that royalty is deucedly hard-up, and has
k? i l? ff W r n ll ? sce P tre and speak very kindly to
the bailiff for fear hed run away with the late
Vueen Vic. s _ best ornamental bedstead. One
lunatic, enclosing 7s. 6d., lamented that the King
ad spent so much on the war in South Africa
but hoped he would accept a “widow’s mite
as a Christmas box, wishing him many more.”
i at recalls us that a Sydney deadbeat, who
sleeps regularly in a hole in the Domain under a
heavy blanket of S.M. Heralds, bears an astonish-
ing likeness to what Edward would be if hard
times really troubled him. Even policemen do
him reverence.
r , TO , DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyers Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
.Be the squalid clerical squabble over the
bible-burning. “South Sea Bubbles,”
written a quarter of a century ago by the Earl of
following 8 am * H. Kingsley, has the
n,! 1 ] 9 a . diBput ? dpointwhether the Roman Catholic or
tne rotestant is the most powerful, not to say tyrannous,
over his dusky flock. It depends very much bn the form
and strength of the native government. If that he cen-
tra! and strong I should think the Protestant would have
the advantage if he made himself useful to the reigning
chief ; in the other ease I should think the Papist would
have what in these seas would be called the “pull.”
Their men are more highly educated and cultivated than
the greater part of those sent out by the various dissent-
ing bodies. _ They are also more successful in keeping
other religions at a distance, and are by no means
particular as to the means they use to gain their end,
and which they carry out in blank opposition to
i T ,lal L n £ htB as at present understood. Not
that I have any reason to believe that the
Weslevans are much better at heart on that point,
they only want the power, not the will. This, for want
of that iniquitous and horrible power the priests grain
over their own flock through the confessional, they
cannot get ; though I believe that some sort of monthly
catechism and ticket system answers somewhat the same
purpose. Whatever good the Wesleyans may do ‘ ‘ spiritu-
ally,” the mischief they work “ commercially ” whenever
they have a chance is beyond counting, and the common
name of their missionary schooner, “ The Palm Oil
Trader, ’ is, according to their own account, well deserved.
If the Wesleyan Society had not published the facts
themselves, I should have hesitated to state them. Can
it be believed that out of the kindly, credulous Tonga
islanders, just struggling into civilisation, and whose
every dollar, hardly earned, should and would be spent
on the improvement of their country were it not for
these canting sharks, they get the noble and astonish-
ing sum of £4489 16s. 2d., which with £1550 received as
class and oil money, makes a total of £6OOO, being £3500
above the current expenses of the mission for the year
to assist in sending the glorious gospel of Christ to
regions beyond !


No. F7989.—9ct. Gold Leaf and Wishbone
B”o fh. lls 6d.
No. 0537.—501 id Silver Bean Shape
Match Box, 8s od.
No. FBl9o.—Oct. Gold Bamboo Bar,
and Heart Brooch 8s 6d.
12
10
w
0AW t|t
4
Th'» i* one of the prettiest
and best Watches pro-
curable and will be prized
by any lady. The dial is
of lovely decorate:! Silver,
with Gold Finish, the
Timekeeping excellent,
the case of Engraved
Solid Silver, price only 423.
No. 112.—Handsome 9ct. Gold and Fine
Amethyst Brooch, 18s 6d.
Our Variety makes Suitable Selection Easy,
B
UYINQ as we do for Eight Stores, each as Well-Stocked as our Sydney one, means that we
have advantages offered us such as no Jewellery business In Australia can claim. We have
our own warehouse in Hatton Garden, London, manned by Experts who see more goods
in 24 hours than most buyers see In 12 months. You see thus that we can offer you the
very pick of the Home market at fascinatingly low prices. We don’t keep all the advant-
ages we get to ourselves—we pass them on to you. A most important point, and one we adhere
to is, we never sacrifice the quality for the sake of being able to quote a very low price for an
article. Quality is our first consideration. Remember this when you want anything in our line,
as quality must count with you as well as with us. Illustrated Catalogues Free on application.
No. BB34l.—Solid Silver and Pearl Book-marker, 3|in., 4* ; larger, 6s 6d.
No. F7550.—0ct. Gold Bamboo Bar and
Leaf Brooch, 8s 6d
No. FBlB6.—The Latest
Lace Pin, Emu or
Kangaroo, 7s 6<L
No. 17731.—N0vel Style Salt
Cellar, with Spoon, Silver-plate,
Is 6d.
No. FB2ls—Cut-Glass and Solid
Silver Toilet Bottle, 5i inches
high, 22s (id.
7065. —Oct. Gold, two-bar Ornamented
Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. G29B.—Polished English Oak and Nickel-mounted Double
Inkstand, £1 ss.
No. E 4933 —Fruit Dish of Pretty
China, 7 inches square, strong
Silver-plated Stand, 7s 6d.
No F2j.io—Silver-plated Fern
Pot, handsomely chased;
4in., 22s 6d ; 37s 6d.
No. F 5908.— Solid Silver Bowl on Ebony Stand, s|inches
high, 7£ inches wide, £lO 10s; in best Plate, 84s.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
No. F6sBB.—Case containing- 2 Pearl and Silver-
plated Butter Forks, 14s od.
No. EB7s9.—Best Quality Silver-plated Tile Centre
Teapot Stand, 10s 6d.
No. E 6797. —9ct. Gold Brooch, set Sapphire, Ruby
and Diamond, 16s 6d.
No. F49SB.—Case of 2 Cat-Glass
Silver Mounted Knife Rests, 11/6.
No. FB7o4.—Remarkable
Value. Diamond, Ruby and
Sapphire Scarf Pin or Pin
and Stud, Fine Gold Settings,
£3 10».
No. E 5627. — Stronjr Set. Gold Twist Bracelet.
A Pretty Style, 32s 6d
52
r /Sro.
4/2 GEORGE
ST SYDNEY.
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL ....
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
WHICH IS MADE BY
The Gramophone Typewriter [td.
This is a “JUNIOR ITONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
T is well to remember this when discussing the artistic merit of sound reproducing contrivances. There is little
difficulty in reproducing a sound. There is, however, a gigantic difficulty in reproducing good music, and the actual
voices of famous singers. We would ask you to remember that THE GRAMOPHONE made by The Gramophone
and Typewriter Ltd. does this. How do we do it? Why, because we have unlimited capital at our back, and because
we do not hesitate to obtain the services of the finest and most celebrated artistes of the day to sing for us. The better the
artiste the better the song. The public are the best judges in the world of tne intrinsic value of an article. We are selling
FIVE MILLION RECORDS
per annum —and why ? Because our records are real reproductions of these singers. Our catalogue includes records made
by Carusa, Plangon, Renaud, David Bispham, Ben Davies, Andrew Black, Richard Green, Joseph O’Mara, Mesdames Calve,
Suzanne Adams, Kirby Lunn, Esther Palliser, Percival Allen, Connie Ediss, and Marie Tempest. Also Dan Leno, George
Robey, Louis Bradfield, and Maurice Earkoa, besides hundreds of others.
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Represented all over
World.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA - AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


LV.
iwss
/
>s&&■
tr
PD
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
THE PIANOLA
r
!>
What
It
Means
To
You.
If you are the owner of a piano which is seldom or never used, little
benefit is derived from it by either you or your family. By the purchase
of a Pianola every member of your family can play the piano, although he
or she may never have played one note in their life.
Ihe striking of the notes of the selection, in proper time and place, is
no concern of the player. This is correctly done by the Pianola.
The player’s only task is to decide how slow or how fast the notes shall
be played, or how loud or soft he wants them to sound.
Three little levers serve to impart the player’s wishes to the piano.
Should the selection not be familiar, a very simple set of markings is given
on the music-roll which unwinds in front of the player, directing the proper
movement of the levers.
If you will write us, asking for Catalogue B, we will mail you one
free, explaining more fully the Pianola.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt cash, or £65 on moderate
monthly payments.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
80LE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SYDNEY : 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
The Hebraic Aboriginal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are innumerable tribes that practise cir-
cumcision, and several that have individuals
showing distinctive Jewish features, notably on
the overland telegraph line and in central Aus-
tralia.
It is ijow over 40 years since I first witnessed in
South Australia the operations of circumcision
and introcision. Circumcision is quite common
amongst the aborigines both north, south, east
and west.
The great Duyeeri tribe inhabits the country
from Mount Frieling, on the south, to Cooper’s
Creek, on the north.
They are a wild lot, and pretty numerous. And
they, and many of the tribes surrounding them,
practice circumcision, besides koolpie, or intro-
cision. They are almost booka, or vegetarians.
I don’t think I ever saw a kangaroo near their
country.
Rats, however, at times abound, even unto
plagues thereof. Ardoo, usually written nardoo,
and other seeds form their principal food. The
operation of circumcision (Kurrawellie Wonkanna)
is performed on the boys when they first begin to
show unka (a beard).
The lad is decoyed away from camp by some
woman for whom he has shown a partiality. When
she has him alone she suddenly slips over his head
a koorie, a twisted cord with shell attached. Of
course the old men, knowing what is going on,
are on the alert. Quarrelling between the boy’s
relatives and the others then goes briskly on.
After peace is once more restored they camp as
usual. Only the boy Kurrawellie (name before
circumcision) does not come back.
He remains alone in the bush. Next day, in the
company of his chums, he visits the neighboring
tribes. All about do “big one walk round,” when
these people learn what is to happen and come in
to the spot fixed for the ceremony. I believe
the neophyte camps alone on this visiting tour.
After some days he is hunted up and brought
home; this is on the day prior to the rite. He is
taken into camp, and all have a good look at him.
His father (apirrie) and near relations fondle
him.
Then a number of the warriors rush him, catch
him up, and he is borne bodily away amid a ter-
rible uproar of shouting and screaming. He is
taken a goodly distance from camp and covered
over until morning. , More quarrelling now takes
place in the camp, but rarely reaches the fighting
stage, though occasionally fights do occur. Fight
or no fight, there is always much bluster and
threatening, with screaming of hysterical women.
Then the women are ordered away “long way
off,” where they remain by themselves until day
once more dawns. The time is now drawing close,
and a youth commences to run and sprinkle dust
as he runs. This is an appeal to the divinity or
good spirit, Moora-Moofa, to be with them. The
operation, kurra-well-yee wonkanna, is then per-
formed with a quartzite or flint knife, or, more
often nowadays, with a fragment of sharp glass.
Then the apirrie (father) re-names his son,
who, after receiving his yinka or human hair belt,
often several hundred yards long and much prized,
is led off by the young men and remains away for
months, eventually returning with all the privi-
leges of a man of his tribe.
It is this tribe or collection of tribes that uses
the great two-handed sword boomerang, mura-
wirrie, often six feet long jmd nearly four inches
broad.
The Port Lincoln tribe call circumcision par-
dnap-pa, or rather the boy is thus known. The
women are driven off when the ceremony is about
to take place as with the Duyeeri. A great battue
then takes place, and a store of animal food is
laid in. The women gather fruits, seeds, &e.
When the feast is over, “ all about bingey tight,’’
the youlli or operator makes his preparation. This
man not unfrequently is a member of a neighbor-
ing tribe, the performing of the operation being
granted to him as an honor. The boy is brought
in blindfolded, amid a general murmur or low
growl of all assembled. A number of men, stoop-
ing down, form a rude human altar on which the
victim is pressed, lying on his back, firmly
held by arms, legs, and head, and a man sitting
across his chest.
The yuntha, or bull-roarers, are sounding now
in all directions, whilst the youlli deftly and
effectually uses his flint knife, or chip of quartz,
as the case may be. At this stage several magical
words are repeated, whilst others cast dust into
the air to a peculiar rhythmical movement of the
feet, the while they bite savagely at their beards.
The operation being over, another big hunt takes
place The youth then has his hair held up by a
net of opossum fur, and an oonpah, or covering
is hung round his loins.
This tribe also performs the operation known as
Sturt’s Terrible Rite.
HARRY STOOKDALE.
The Justice of the Crows.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As the sun rose the gums grew greener, and the
sky more deeply blue. From the delicate fronds
of oxidised copper at the roots of the blue gum in
the foreground to the purpling ranges that showed
between the peristyle of gleaming white boles,
the view was one that an Australian —or an artist
—would linger on.
Something moved a mile to the right. Through
the heat waves the figures of a man and a horse
showed, distorted as through cheap window glass.
At last, the hoof-beats arose above the chorus of the
locusts. Mounted Constable Donnon was twenty
miles out of Ballaba with only half his ride
accomplished His duty led him to undertake a
journey to the far side of the purple ranges to
serve a summons under the Thistle Act, and he
was heavy at heart in consequence. Had there
been a tragedy of any magnitude, a navvies’ row,
or anything calculated to arouse his interest, he
would not have minded a ride of forty miles. But
the service of a summons, and a trumpery one at
that, provided nothing to occupy his mind, and
Mounted Constable Donnon’s one object in life
was to prevent himself thinking. That he had
failed in his object was manifest in the set smileless
jaw, the furrowed forehead and the sunken cheeks.
In the township v :here was always something to
be done, always somebody to talk to, and, for 20
years, in different stations of the State, hard work
and,absolute will-power had kept his brains within
the lines of the normal. But Time had not been
land to him. It had poured on his wound neither
the ointments of philosophy nor forgetfulness.
now ’ w, thin five years of his pension, he
could feel as keenly as the terrible day ever so
many years back.
ITis two years at Ballaba had provided him
with more thinking than the whole of his previous
experience in the police force. He was alone on
the station, and there were occasional journeys,
such as he was taking now, which gave the
biograph of his brain a chance to defy him and
work in an endless series of pictures that wrung
his very soul to shreds.
As he rode along, he saw neither the purple
ranges nor the eucalypts around him. Before him
was a landscape purely English ; and among the
pictures, a man and a woman, both young. The
woman was beautiful, and with big blue eyes that
poured love into those of the man. There was a
cottage, with the man and the woman again, and
a r ij’ The story of the life in the cottage was
unfolded and unfolded by the mental biograph
until the door opened, and he saw another figure—
another man. The machine stopped working.
Mounted Constable Donnon looked ahead and
saw the tracery of green leaves against the sky,
the lace of shadows playing on the grass. The
biograph had suddenly ended.
c“ er a w^e b e l?an again slowly and mistily.
J.he first man and woman were in the picture. The
woman, with her face puffed almost out of recog-
nition, lay upon a slab of marble, with her golden
hair clinging clammily about her. Then there was
a wild, confused picture of a man rushing aim-
lessly, frantically, murderously ; and after that a
blank.
Twenty years,” thought Mounted Constable
Donnon, “why didn’t I make an end of it at
once ? What chance is there ever of meeting him
again. Heaven knows I sought for him hard
enough.”
He caught sight of a thin thread of smoke rising
from a hollow to the left. He welcomed it as
giving him something to think about, and urged
his horse towards the fire. A man dressed in a
shooting costume was seated beside it with his
horse tethered to a bough.
‘ Ah, constable,” announced the stranger, “I’m
glad you’ve come. I’ve lost my way, and I just
lighted the fire as a signal of distress.”
It s a wonder you were found,” laughed Don-
non, 1 ‘ nobody comes within five miles of here once
m six months. How did you get here ? ”
“I left Mr. Marshall’s station to ride into a
place called Ballaba,” explained the stranger.
“ They told me I couldn’t go wrong; I had only
to follow the road.”
“ So you have,” retorted Donnon.
“But,” argued the stranger,” “you call any-
thing a road in this infernal country. I thought
I was on the right track until I found myself in
this wood here.’’
Donnon’s patience gave out very suddenly.
‘ They shouldn’t have let you out by yourself,” he
said shortly ; “some of you people would lose
your way in George-street, Sydney, if there
weren’t walls on each side.”
“Come now, sir, no insolence,” cried the
stranger. There was something in his tone that
made Donnon look more closely at him. He was
English. That was manifest even before he
spoke. He was about 50 years of age, well-pre-
served, well groomed, and apparently accustomed
all his life to the best things the world could
provide. He was still good-looking, but his
moustache and curly hair were tinged with grey.
“ Well, what are you staring at ? ” he demanded
of Donnon. The constable’s eyes were fixed upon
him. The biograph was recommencing at a
tremendous rate.
“ Are you mad, man?” asked the stranger;
“Why don’t you speak ? Damn you, sir, are you
a specimen of the police in this place ? The
sooner you take a lesson from the London police
the better.”
Donnon was thinking— not of the past this time
—but the immediate future. At last he spoke,
slowly and deliberately, with his hand behind him
on his hip.
“So this is your latest game, Black Darby
Fagafa, posing as an English visitor, eh ? ”
“What the devil do you mean?” cried the
other, indignantly.
“ Mean,” replied Donnon, swinging a revolver
into line with the head of the stranger; “I mean
that I know you, Black Darby. I saw you in
Darlinghurst when you went up for three years in
’95, and I never forget a face, although I didn’t
expect you about here.”
The man in the shooting-suit laughed. “By
Jove ! this is too good. You mistake me for a
criminal! When I get back to London, I’ll have
one good story to tell, at any rate.”
Donnon kept his revolver levelled at the man’s
head. “You’ll never get back to London,” he
said. “ I knew that horse the moment I saw it.
Stolen from old Minton, of South Bandong, last
Wednesday night. With your record, that’ll get
you seven years at least, Darby Fagan. Besides,
you’re wanted for the affair at Black Creek, and
you’ll be mighty clever to save your neck if they
fit you for it.”
The stranger seemed more and more composed.
“So I have a capital charge over my head as
well? This is getting more and more interest-
ing. Black Darby, I think you said. A most
picturesque name, suggestive of the bushranger of
fiction.”
Donnon took a step forward. With his left
hand he disengaged the handcuffs from his braces.
“ Walk back to that tree behind you, ” he ordered.
The stranger obeyed, and, snapping one of the
manacles over the man’s right wrist, Donnon
suddenly pulled his left hand around the sapling
and shut the second handcuff over it.
“Well, Black Darby, I think you are harmless
enough now,” he said, facing the prisoner.
“ Would you like to know some of your aliases?”
“By heavens! you won’t remain in the force
long, I tell you. I have some influence though I
am a stranger in the country, and I’ll have
your uniform stripped from you, you ignorant
scoundrel. ”
“It comes with bad grace for you to speak of
scoundrels, Harold. As for ignorance, we both
gained what little knowledge we possess at Oriel
College, Oxford.”
The prisoner jumped as far as his manacles
would permit. “Good God!” he cried, “you
know me. Then what is the meaning of this?
What in heaven’s name do you mean by asserting
that I am identical with this notorious criminal?”
“Merely humor, Harold ; merely humor. It
has been so scarce with me during the past 20
years that I could not resist it. For all 1 know
there isn’t such a person as Black Darby in the
world.”
“ You call me Harold ; who the devil are you,
then ? I don’t know you.”
“Mounted Constable Donnon, at present sta-
tioned at Ballaba, N.S.W.”
“But what do I know about you; and how
dare you take such a liberty with me ? You will
pay dearly for your practical joke, I tell you.”
“ I don t think so,” replied Donnon. “If you
don’t possess an alias, I do. At one time I hap-
pened to reside at Twickenham, on the Thames,
and at that time I was known as Devine—Jim
Devine— ‘ dear old Jim, ’to use the term I have
often heard you use in those good old days.”
“Great God,” whispered the prisoner. Mounted
Constable Donnon seated himself on his heels and
teased a string of ants with a twig.
Mortyn spoke at last. “Jim,” he said softly—
“ Jim ! ”
“Go ahead,” said Donnon, diverting a bull-ant
two inches out of his course.
“Jim,” continued the prisoner, “it’s 20 years
ago since we—we saw one another. I did you an
injury, but, so help me God ! I’ve spent my life
repenting it. We are old men now, both of us.
Let bygones be bygones and shake hands. Re-
member what friends we were before—before ”
“ Before you showed yourself to be the most
treacherous hound I had ever heard of, let alone
ever met. You, my friend ! You didn’t remem-
ber our old friendship 20 years ago. If you expect
me to do so now, you are a fool as well as a black-
guard.”
Five minutes passed. “ What do you intend to
do?” asked Mortyn.
“Nothing,” replied Donnon. “ Absolutely no-
thing.” The prisoner looked at him inquiringly.
“I have done all I intend to do to you. In five
more minutes I will take the saddle from your
horse and drive him out towards the ranges where
the brumbies will pick him up. For myself, I
will ride to a homestead 25 miles away, serve a
summons and return to my duty at Ballaba. That
is all.”
“And me?”
“ You will remain, unless your ingenuity can
devise some means of getting out of those brace-
lets. You will not be alone. There are crows in
large numbers. See”—he waved his hand
towards the sky—“they are appropriately attired
in black. It is said by naturalists that they regard
human eyes as great delicacies.”
Mounted-constable Donnon swung himself into
the saddle, and with the bridle of the other horse
in his handi cantered towards the horizon.
• * • *
One morning, a week later, he rode out of
Ballaba and returned to spend the afternoon clean-
ing the rust from a pair of handcuffs.
Six months later, a stray swagman found a
mummified body far off the track on Marshall’s
run. Mounted-constable Donnon reported that
there were no marks of violence on the body and
no suspicious circumstances.
C.N.


PERMANENTLY CURED.
GRATEFUL messages from past
sufferers from various ail-
ments arising from the dis-
ordered condition of the
liver, are continually coming to hand,
and prove conclusively that, as a per-
fect liver medicine, BILE BEANS
stand unrivalled. “My husband was
troubled with Indigestion,” says Mrs.
G. Willoughby, of Buckland-street,
Alexandria, Sydney. “ After a meal
his food would lie heavy on his chest,
and it would seem to rise, and a nasty
taste would come into his mouth. He
also suffered from heartburn, and felt
drowsy and unfit for work. His sleep
was disturbed, and altogether he was
in a wretched state of health. BILE
BEANS were recommended to him,
and speedy relief was the outcome of the first few doses, and which was shortly fol-
lowed by a complete restoration to health. I find BILE BEANS also suitable for
myself and children when we feel at all out of sorts, and I never lose an opportunity of
recommending them to others.”
r
V
BILE BEANS have now a world-wide reputation for curing BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, NER-
VOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, PIMPLES and ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS, BAD
BREATH, ANAEMIA, LOSS OF APPETITE, RHEUMATISM, and will fortify
the system against the changeable weather of the present season. BILE BEANS are
obtainable from all medicine vendors, price Is. lid., or 2s. 9d. large box (contains three
times the quantity of the Is. lid. size).
IMPORTANT WARNING.
The genuine BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS are never sold in bulk, by the
dozen or hundred, but in sealed boxes, bearing the signature of the Proprietors, THE
BILE BEAN MANUFACTURING CO., printed in red ink on outside wrapper. If
an unprincipled dealer says he has something just as good as Bile Beans GUARD
AGAINST HIM, for he is trying to sell you something he makes more profit on. In
all cases of doubt send direct to the Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt-st., Sydney.
V.-
tor
u
'Rhymes with
3 ML'-v
II
1
wm
,L,
.. -s.
fy//s
>
Ct
/
r.
<* ' n
■ - -•
so does
PEARS
Imperial Bagmen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
11 Worse employment might be found for Secretaries of
State than tramping round the glohe preaching the
Empire’s Imperial mission.— Chamberlain, per Cable.
Worse Employment ? That may be—
They might take to poetry,
And, with fiercer, frantic fire,
Strike the strings of Kipling’s lyre ;
And might leave that Bard of Blood
Stuck in Seven Seas of Mud.
Worse Employment ? Little fear.
Could the first of Cecils hear
Words like these —so cheaply brave—
He would shudder in his grave.
Were his ashes in an urn.
They from white to red would turn.
England of the centuries,
England, Mistress of the Seas,
Wilt thou change thy diadem
For the paste of Brummagem ?
Wilt thou pawn thy crest of pride
To these Bagmen Glorified ?
Wilt thou, Shakespeare’s England, keep
Ships for this upon the deep ?
Wilt thou, Milton’s England, hold
Glory cheaper far than gold ?
Cromwell’s England, wilt thou see
Chamberlains make trade of Thee ?
I can see the Secretaries
Tramp about like Missionaries;
I can see them call around
Stating that the Empire’s sound,
Saying that all Men should turn
To a Going Good Concern —
Sidney’s England can it be ?
—Thou art grey with leprosy 1
0 thou British Babylon,
Throned beside the ship-choked Thames,
Decked with plundered gold and gems,
Haggard, full-fed, famine-wan,
Take thy harp whose strings should be
Rigging of thy thousand ships—
Sing the song of Infamy-
Sing the song of thine Eclipse,
All thy glory now is gone
Babylon ! O Babylon !
Sing it: thou shalt sing in vain :
Pardon shall wait long for Thee —
But the Mistress of the Sea
Shall in charitable way
On some not-too-distant day
Mingle in the prayers for rain
Names of Judas and of Cain
And of Joseph Chamberlain.
N.s.w.
V.J.D.
Our New Selection.
(A LIVELY MORNING WITH DAD.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
After breakfast.
We were getting ground ready for wheat, and
all of us were busy—especially Dad. He was
bobbing up everywhere, trying to be in half-a-
dozen places all at once.
Dave went off to the ploughs, leading three
horses; Joe followed with three more.
Barney, the new man, a few minutes late, was
throwing the harness on his set.
Dad happened along,
“Y’ going t’ be here all day ?” he roared. The
man nearly fell down. He fumbled with the
coupling-strap, but failed to fasten it, and hurried
the horses away without giving any answer.
Dad shuffled to the rear of the stable, where
Lion, a draught horse, was invalided. Dad tried
him with a fistful of new hay. Lion refused.
Sneezer Wingfield rode into the yard and asked
Dad could he lend him a horse for a few days to
draw his chaff to the railway.
Dad ignored Sneezer’s presence. He poured
the balance of a bottle of saltpetre into Lion’s
nostrils, then began rubbing him hard about the
flanks and whistling encouragingly to him.
Sneezer r pe ted his remark.
Dad got annoyed.
“ Where th’devil d’y’expect I c’n get horses
from t’ lend y’ ? ” he snapped, turning round, and
glaring savagely at Sneezer.
“I thought maybe y’ had one, that’s all,”
Sneezer murmured, and went away.
He returned again, accompanied by Bill. Bill
and Sneezer were close friends. Bill sometimes
took Sneezer’s sister out riding.
“Oh,” said Bill, approaching his parent with
great respect, “Gipsy’s down th’paddick there>
doin’ nothin’; I s’pose Sneezer c’n have th’ lend of
her, Dad, to draw their ” .
“Well, why th’ devil don’t he go an’ get her?”
Dad yelled, interrupting him. “ Does ’e want me
t’ go runnin’ after ’er fer ’im ? ”
Sneezer smiled, and went and got Gipsy.
Dad trotted across to the ploughs, and worried
Dave and Joe for an hour, then returned and
yelled at Sarah to know why th’ deuce she left the
door of the dairy open, and threatened to sell out
and go and live in town by himself if “ th’ damn
place isn’t looked after.”
• * » •
A young man, clean-shaved, and wearing a
straw hat and breeches and boots, rode up to the
gate on a grey horse, shod all round and well-
groomed.
“ Good morning,” he said.
“ The same,” said Dad.
“ I’m a dairy inspector.”
“Ob, you are?” Dad answered, with a surly
stare.
“ Yes-s,” nervously returned the other.
Dad lifted a back-band that was hanging on the
fence, put it in the stable and was walking off.
“ I’m to inspect all the dairies round here,” the
official remarked, by way of reminding Dad of his
presence.
“ "Well ” —Dad grunted—“ I should ’a’ expected
t’ find a man with a stronger growth o’ hair on
his face fer t’ be inspector.”
“ I don’t know,” the other said mildly. “P’raps
it would surprise you to know that I’m also a
veterinary surgeon ? ”
It did surprise Dad, as his face showed. But
he thought of Lion and his expression changed.
“Wull, if y’ are, me boy,” he said kindly,
“ You’re the very man I want. Come round here
and look at Lion.”
But the inspector wished to see the dairy first,
and Dad, after hesitating, conducted him to it.
He complimented Dad on the appearance of the
butter. Dad received his remarks m silence.
“You had better shift these old cases out of
this, though, I think ? ” and the official quietly sug-
gested a pair of good butter-boxes, built in town
specially for Dad.
“Young man,” Dad snorted, showing the white
of his eye—“ do you know a butter-box when you
see one ? ”
The officer scanned them closely again, and
seemed in a quandary. “Anyway,” he stam-
mered, looking at the door, “the dairy is built
too near the pig-stye, ain’t it ? ”
“ Look here, me shaver,” Dad said, “ when you
own this proputty you can put the dairy where
you d well like; but just now, let me tell y’,
it belongs t’ me ! ”
“ It’s my duty though, M ”
Dad interrupted him.
“Do you know” —he shouted —“ do you know,
me boy, that the Gov’nor an’ th’ Premier of th’
country have been in this dairy ? ”
The official wasn’t aware of it.
“O’ course you ain’t,” Dad snarled. Then,
raising his voice to squealing pitch, and poking
his hairy chin into the other’s face : “ Well, then,
they have! ”
The inspector got uneasy.
“ You had better see th’ horse,” Dad growled,
showing the way to the door; and when the
inspector stepped out he pulled it to violently and
turned the key.
They walked across the yard.
“If you’re a doctor, as you say you are,” Dad
grumbled, “ then y’ know all the ins an’ outs as
well as every bone and muscle of a horse’s body.
.... Now, tell me what’s up with Am,” pointing
to the sick horse.
The inspector threw off his coat, walked round
Lion a few times and eyed him closely. Then he
took him by the head, peered into his mouth,
into his eyes, and examined both ears.
“Nothing the matter with him,” he said, turn-
ing to Dad.
“Pshaw!” Dad blurted out and hobbled
away a yard or two. “Y’might just— Pshatv /”
he broke out again, walking off another yard or
two. ... “Y’ might as well ’samine bis tail
now, y’ eejit. . . . Look here” (Dad flung out his
arm furiously) “d’ y’ see that gate —now get
through it as quick as you can, or I’ll make an
inspecter o’ y’!”
The official mounted his horse and went over to
Regan’s.
** * •
Bill was trying to hunt a bullock out of the big
yard into the killing-pen—a rowdy brute it was,
too, just off the range, and Bill wasn’t taking any
risks.
Dad came along.
“Take ’im quietly—take ’im quietly,” he
shouted—“rushin’ ’im about; what’s th’ use o’
that ; wan’t th’ meat ter go bad ? ”
“ You keep back out o’ there,” Bill called out
in warning as Dad crawled through the rails —
“ you ain’t quick enough t’ keep out of his way.”
But Dad entered and leisurely strode across the
yard, the bullock staring fiercely at him, and
walked into the killing-pen and stood there in
full view of the beast,
“ Now give him a start, Bill,” he shouted.
“He’ll give you a start,” Bill shouted back, “if
you don’t have some sense an’ get out o’ there.”
"Y’ whelp! is that all y’ know yet about
pennin’ a bullock ? ” And Dad marched right out
of the pen and courageously shook his hat at the
beast. The bullock instantly charged. Dad turned
and hurriedly led the way back into the pen.
The bullock bounded in at his heels. Dad
dexterously popped behind the large swing-gate,
opening into the pen, and with a bang and a chuck
shoved it shut; then, as the enraged bullock
swung round and located him, dived to escape
under the bottom rail. But Dad didn’t calculate
correctly. Only his head went under the rail—
the rest of him jammed. The beast made a great
dust and knelt on Dad and bellowed in his ear
and knocked splinters off the rails with his horns,
just above his head. Dad yelled to Bill. Bill
rushed up and shoved the gate in, and the bullock
plunged through into the big yard again.
“ Confound it! ” Dad howled when he got up—
‘ ‘ what th’ devil did y’ want t’ open th’ gate fer
an’ let ’im out again ? ”
Dad was an ungrateful parent.
* * *
A man with a pack on his back, a billy-can in
one hand and a wretched skeleton of a horse towing
behind him passed the gate. Three children were
on the back of the horse—stowed away amongst a
pile of bedding and tin dishes and things ; a lame
woman without boots limped beside the horse
poking it at intervals with a stick. Two miser-
able dogs slunk behind the woman. The family
looked up and stared at the house, but didn’t call.
At the hay-shed, further down, they saw Cranky
Jack mowing lucerne. The man asked Jack for a
bit of hay for the horse. Jack was nothing if he
wasn’t generous. He opened the rails and led the
animal into the shed where Dad’s best hay was.
“There isn’t many like you about,” the man
said to Jack, with gratitude in his eye.
“Nice horse that, Jim,” Jack remarked after
staring long and vacantly at the sad object. There
was a lot of unconscious humor in Jack.
The nomads sat on the ground and rested while
the horse took its fill of Dad’s hay.
Jack went on mowing.
Dad rushed on the scene.
“ Who told y’t’ put that d horse in here ?”
he roared at the man.
“ He did,” the man answered quietly, pointing
to Jack.
“ Take it out, ” Dad yelled, slashing the brute
on the head with his old hat and digging the toe
of his boot into its stomach.
The man jumped up in a rage, and swore and
kicked Dad twice. Then there was a fight.
Dad’s own account of battles he had fought had
often impressed us, but now he seemed to
lose all his skill. The man gob all over him, but
Dad caught him round the waist and down they
went in each other’s arms among the hay—Dad
underneath. The enemy mobilised. The lame
woman joined in, and threw hay on Dad’s head
and prevented him seeing, while the man squeezed
his windpipe. Cranky Jack threw down the
scythe, jammed a finger into each of his ears, and
grinned and grimaced. Jack was a useless man
in a row. But Bill appeared—and Dad’s life was
saved.
«* * •
At dinner, Dad said he hadn’t known such a
busy morning for a long while.
STEELE RUDD.


For All the Family
Our Old Family Medicine. Good for Father, Mother, and the Children.
Purifies, Builds Up. Experience of a Trained Nurse.
Lf
*?>•
■ l
Mrs. John Evans, of Snbiaco,
West Australia, sends this pho-
tograph of herself and children,
and says:
“ Whenever any member of
my family becomes pale, weak,
debilitated, or suffers from im-
pure blood, I always fall back on
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and Ayer’s
Pills. I give the Pills to keep
the bowels all right and the
Sarsaparilla to make the blood
pure and strengthen the nerves.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla carried my
husband through a bad attack
of influenza, and later it also
Cured him of rheumatism. I
have often given it to my chil-
dren when they have lost their
appetite and become listless. I
practise as a nurse, and fre-
quently recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for the very try ing climate of this country.
And I can truthfully say that both nurse and patient are always greatly pleased.”
“The World’s Createst Family Medicine.”
This testimonial should convince every one who reads it of the great value
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a blood-purifier and general tonic. Mrs. Evans
spea s as a mother, ever watchful over the health of those most dear to her.
Sue also speaks as a professional nurse, one who knows just what effect these
medicines have on those who are suffering. 1
Be sure you get Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. There are a great many substitute
Sarsaparillas on the market that will disappoint you. Avoid imitations.
AYER’S § arsaparilla
A Great Blood-purifier and Blood-builder
Take Ayer's Pills with Ayer's Sarsaparilla. One aids the otner.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEB & CO.. Lowell, Mass., IT. 8. A.
/..a? °, ur Stlect ion, written by A. H. Davis
( Steele Rudd ”) and published by Thb
Bulletin Co., has earned the title of “the
jolhest book ever printed in Australia.”
there is laughter on every page ; yet the
book remains grimly true to the facts. As
a picture of life on an Australian selection
it has never been surpassed. Since it was
published, little more than two years ago
upwards of 12,000 copies have been sold at
the comparatively high price of 6s.—making
The reason of the sale is not far to seek : the
ptaX TITSS.wfS» expensive t»
m U W ? r ? produced by cheaper labour
in England, it would cost less, and could be sold at a
cheaper rate. The publishers prefer to employ Australian
labor only. When you buy On Our Selection you pay
bttle more than you pay for an English book ; but
you get 100 times the Australian value. “ Steele Rudd’s ”
book has gone all over Australia, and wherever it has
gone it has become the treasure of a household, often
the delight of a township. People never leave off
reading it until it is thumbed to rags; and then they
The characters of “Our Selection”—
___ v Dad ’ , Joe ’ .‘‘ r>av e,” “Sarah,” and the rest—
*p^ttt'is3S ! 2Z2“ CSiSu.'tu! W «»<•"»
m
SELECTION I
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
t
m
pcS'
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.'
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
r
Vj)L
Yt
f* At
' z* t
"Hie “LANCET” says:-
“We counsel the public to drink Lime-Fruit Juice
whenever and wherever they list. It is a far more
wholesome drink than any form of Alcohol.”
Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice either with water or
aerated water is a delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees :
EVAHS SONS, LESCHER, & WEBB, Limited,
London and Liverpool.
AGENTS— Elliott Bros., Ltd.; J. Connell & Co., Sydney
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM's
r 0 Giddin O p U s 8 , a^^Ir° U 1 P iS ° 1 , i ders ’ , such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
in „„ -V ulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills Flush-
turbed anf «n A £P? tlte ,Shoi ' tne r s r f of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
WILL GIVE S&.T& rr«RST 60S»
GUINEATbOX' 10116 B01t °' theSe PIUS ' a ” d the)r w111 be acknowledged 1 *!© be” WORTH A
S 1 “e° s “tem ,t<> Fe“ aleS * C ° mPl “ eTi ”
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
0rk wonders u P° n the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
aronsino- with T?™™° mg fche X ong ' losfc Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
are U ‘ 8 faf,(T^ k °F Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
Nervous and Dehifitntid - ot J sa f ld ®» in aU classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
he world . Fui?direcWons * W Za * V " < ° f any Patent Medieine in
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEE CHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENCLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
• v '5
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MAYFAIR
*9
TABLE-JELLY
&
“Made in half*
a-minute by
the mere ad-
dition of boil-
ing water-”
lIV PINT
PACKEIS.
CRYSTALS
Manufacturers-JOHN MOIR & SON, LTD., LONDON, ABERDEEN and SEVILLE
Head Office: 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON, E.C.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner Ceorge & Market Sts.. SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30 ;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors oijly pay for wfcat tbcy actually baVc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
eats
. ENGAGE
'
v.„*, ■ •; v ...
BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
rooms AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.r.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
, etc.j
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be
daily, personally or by letter, at “ ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st Svdnev OH !!Z , !
Methods discarded. DR_ MARTIN’S latest discovery has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Enercv Luno* *>+ c -
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms’ are repute wit"’ 11l tf
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients Seated £v
correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One Pound All Sufrlll
should write for #copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work, entitled, “Mind Over'Matter ■ or H™ 7*
Secure a New Lease of Life without Drugs, Medicines, or Quack Nostrums.” This work should ftL’iulri t 0
in every household, as itcontains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contaS
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required. '-"eapest
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
"ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


ASBESTOS . . .
BOILER COVERING
Has Proved its Economy Times without number.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3cwt. casks,
75., Bs., 9s. cvvt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 125., 145.,
16s. cwt.
It Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel.
PERDFSIAU & CO.
ONLY ONE ADDRESS-
-270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOS:
Price 4s 6d, postage 6d. •
17
I%^
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN.
21-
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box 116 PARIS.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
D.l.j 300 Collins St., Melbourne
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES
w_ a., zELiDiEaiiDaoE] & co.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YO&K STKEJST, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
(. onntry Orders by post Horn all the colonics promptly
attended to.
(Sole Australasian Repres
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Ciarence Street, SYDNEY.
32 & 34
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue*
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
WOLF
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“ THE BLOCK,”
ColHns-St., MELBOURNE
£nl.
i V
&
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
— arr9H'’ MELBOURNE: 435 Bourke Street.
PUMP ,Nr M ~™^^
MacMnerv "ng nee rs^SineTools, sL’ing, Plummer Blochs, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lub“g Oircrunton Pocket Tranks, Shell's Electrical Fans. Hoisting Engines and Bo.lers.
■ z.
EfeiEC ORDING
SI
PARKE & LACY CO.
LIMITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
I3XT STOCK:
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors,
Nagle Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return
Tubular Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging
Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls,
Oates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Huntington Quartz
Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and
Mill Supplies. - ups ., rv
©0 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
And at San Francisco and London.
Bushman
Harry Morant:
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
and Buccaneer
By FRANK RBNAR.
Price 11
Post
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO.,
SYDNEY.^
Size, SJ" x Si" x 5".
We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE —
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and ail Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton &Co. Ltd.
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT,
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
Goods forwarded and
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
and Produce Merchants. -
received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCT.ONS ANYWHERE.
THE “PANKLAST.”
The simplest
and most effec-
tive method for
dry crushing on
a small scale.
Invaluable to
Prospectors.
Made of Best
Hardened Steel.
-
“ I regard it as
the best hand pul-
veriser which I have
ever seen.”
E. A. ASHCROFT,
Assayer,
Broken Hill Pty. Co.
No. 2 Power
Machine
will crush 2
to 3cwt. ore
per hour.
Full Particulars on application to
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd Sole Agents,
71 Clarence-st., SYDNEY.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at 4 '
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0.. SYDNEY^
Trewhella Bros.
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Jadks^ I They
Threshers or Machinery tp move, trj . an d the
are used by thousands throughout
sales are rapidly increasing, jVhichpr 8 w hom
You can obtain them from the ironmonger
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney P^ PfUCE
Double Purchase Jack 4 65 -
6 75 -
» ” ” oi 40 -
Single « ” /extra
With AUTOMATIC LOWERING CEAR,
Full Information and Trade Discounts Rom
W. TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victon .
or H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
