

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. Reid’s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
XS. 6. AC CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
INSWBFJIRmGS.
FiKtoe for Fast Wftetl*
axtft^atr<*oond su»4?*qtjsu’*
•feeftdsirirotm«
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring: Tricks (containing: over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 8, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 Htt street, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Mushet’s Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushet’s
Self-Hardening- Tool Steel, Mining, Well-Boring, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steal Truok Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED. SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
STEEL CASTINGS, HAMMERS, EILES.^^
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Expoaive. Cor. CLARENCE & KING STS., SYDNEY
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY,
HOBART.
'
fjadleg’s Orient jjotel.
FREE
BY POST, A MEDICAL
TREATISE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR'. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
SYDITEY.
SYDNEY—
Royal, April, 1903,
CHAMPION CUP
and
SIX FIRST PRIZES.
MELBOURNE—
August, 1902, Grand
Championship of
Australasia.
ADELAIDE —Champion
Cup & 8 Pirst Prizes.
PERFECT
atti
WATER
ASSISTS
DIGESTION
LD
SH
SE
D
E
PIONEER
LEATHER
'BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
USE!
SPOONEE’S
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and 13.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER, (in
bottle),' Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION.
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeeper*,
Soot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Clyde Engineering C?r,Li°
V
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
PROOF
Pajev
A 3 NCI AS ‘US HOMB 01
px»H
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If se, send for our Price List. , You
Will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in .Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
aiid every description of vehicles in S;.ock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLER'/ef every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Priee List. NOTICE.—Do not l»e
misled by any Brms who say tboy will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and yon pay 15 per
. ent. more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland>Btreet, Redfern, SYDNEY
mnciAt n«. t
£8 18/6
Dtliftri4 aI Any WbAff or-*
X*.n. K»nwajr», Station
£tO 10/-
Menl Why Remain Bald ?
D2NTWAU
F2RTHIS
I am never tired of asking
you this question because I
know you needn’t remain bald
any longer.
Tonic
is the remedy, and it’s a
remedy that will produce a
new growth of hair so long
as there is the slightest down
on the head.
AH Chemists *. = 2s, 6d. per bottle.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Sole Proprietor, and
Inventor, City Bank Chambers, 164 Pitt Street
Sydney, N.S.W. ’
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1213. j
[Saturday, May 16, 1903.
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


Bocß trade Advertisement.
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S MAIL.
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Gerra'te (Wirt), Greater Russia, 21s, postage Is 3d.
tSecconilie and Allen, The Age of Shakespeare, 2 Tols.,
7s p. 9d. Cobb, The Intriguers, 3s 6d, p. 6d
Heart of a Girl, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Gowiiur. Dv Thames and Tiber, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Gould (Nat), The Three Wagers, 2s & 2s 6d, p. 6d.
Carlyle's I'ssavs, 3 Vols., Edinburgh Edt., 7s 6d, p. 11q.
Randal, Fire and Sword in Shansi, 6s, postage Bd.
Brandes (George), Poland, 14s, p. Bd.
Rice (Alice Hegan), Lovey Mary, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. «d
Rita, Souls, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Randal, Aunt Bethia’s Button, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Ernst, Wireless Telegraphy, Is, p. 3d.
Syme (David), The Soul, 55,6 d, p. 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
Please Remember the Motto :
“We...Like To Get Together And
Talk, Especially Arpct Things W e Are
Not Very Familiar With.”
Henry Gyles Turner.
tHeVOICE
For tlx a LUKTGrS, tla©
. . «M . .
Great Antiseptic
Bemedy
lor the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ ol
B. The Trachba or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected Inn?- .
I). A lobe of one of toelun„
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable t*
oINGEE
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKEES.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . Contain iVO cocaine or other poisonous drug - .
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, n Tine, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich,
, _ s^dney j- epo6; . aQd / QUE^N , S pLACEt and FELTON, ORIMWADE &00
free on receipt of stamps.
Melbourne, Agents.
THE RED PAGE.
J. B. STEPHENS: SOME
LETTERS.
SOME years ago I spent a long, delightful
evening with Brunton Stephens in his Brisbane
home. It was the first, the last, the time
that 1 saw him at leisure ; for in chance meetings
he was usually too much occupied with office work to be
able to disengage his thought. Yet in that evening we
were knit closely together, and for the rest of his life he
honoured me with a correspondence critical, admonitory,
always kindly. Our friendly intercourse was never
broken —not even when, in the course of a commentator’s
work, his Convict Once was called to unsparing- judg-
ment. He himself, he said, had passed through “ mental
turbulence” to “hard-won serenity,” but he would not
admit that honest difference of opinion, however
decisively expressed, could ever shadow one’s personal
or literary relationship with others.
In half-a-dozen years, indeed, I knew him to lose his
serenity twice only, and for a moment only. Once, when
he thought F. Kenna misrepresented his attitude
to Literature, and particularly to Poetry. Then he
flamed into unexpected violence of epithets—withdrawn,
one after the other, as soon as he had posted his com-
plaint, in a curious succession of telegrams and letters.
The other time, wherr Tennyson’s poetical divinity was
called in question. Stephens felt far more keenly for
Tennyson than for Burris, than for himself. His own
work he valued little ; Burns he valued highly ; but
Tennyson he valued with the very highest.
One of Brunton Stephens’s best qualities was
his mental alertness, his spiritual youth. At sixty years
and more he preserved a boyish enthusiasm for the fine
thing in literature. His enthusiasm was qualified, but
not impaired, by unusually good judgment. He had
been a companion of the best writers in several languages,
and his synthesis of impressions had flowered into a taste
always refined, always reasonable. As with the rest of us,
his habit of mind coloured his verdicts ; yet only in the
case of Tennyson did he show impatience when they were
called in question. Tennyson was woven into the inmost
fibres of his life.
And he was as eager for the New as he was delighted
with the Old. To the end he swam in the fresh current of
letters, returning now and then to the firm banks of
the past. He was one of the first to welcome Stephen
Phillips ; the next week he was deep in Brantome ; just
before his death he wrote to me that he was “ obsessed ”
with Dante.
I have been living in Dante’s mind for a long time.
During the last month of my long illness of last winter
[l9ol] I took up Dante (original Italian, of course), and
ever since then I have been entirely obsessed with
Dante. I have gone slowly through the Inferno three
times and the Purgatoriv once, and am now wrestling
with the ParadisO, which contains more obscure pas-
sages than the other two put together. I used to think
there must be a lot of affectation about the extravagant
praises of Dantean scholars and critics, but I novv find
that “ the half had not been told me.”
Jt
To Stephens’s sweet and kindly nature all who
knew him can testify. He was especially the friend of
young Australian writers. He lifted them all, he relished
them-all, and if he did not sometimes say all he thought
about them—well, as he said, he did not sit in the critic’s
chair. He was ready to help and encourage : blame
could come from others. With all his appreciation of
form, he was keenly alive to force, emotion, fire. “ A
good line, a good verse, a good poem,” he told me,
“ affects me physically. I feel little wiggles down my
spine.” In letters of 1897 he repeats this and other
personalia—
I am singularly unable to give a reason for my likes
and dislikes in poetry. I know by the physical tingle
it communicates to me that I have come in contact
with genuine poetry The few things of Boake’s 1
have seen struck me as showing a strong and original
personality. Had he lived, I think he would have put
all our noses out of joint.. ..
I have to break this off in order to get my chest and
back rubbed with hartshorn liniment. But I don’t
know what good that will do to an illness which is
clearly established in my mind as the result of a long
course of severely hygienic living.. ..
As to that missing packet, I am quite clear that I
posted it. Even if all the other details were hazy, my
delighted surprise (I suppose you are aware I’m a
Scotchman) at finding upon weighing it that it would
be twopence less than I expected will always remain
indelibly impressed on my memory.. ..
Do you know I have a very faint belief in there being
as a rule any particularly close connection between the
man and the writer. In reading Jowett’s Life the
other day, I was pleased to find my own scepticism on
that point corroborated by his—if that is a proper way
of expressing myself. I think, moreover, that the
environment theory, like the theory of heredity, has
been run to death. Taine put me quite out of conceit
with both. As regards my own case, I really do not
think—all modesty apart—that the question of the
* connection between the two capacities is worth the
trouble of investigating.. Won’t it be enough to deal
with the poems? I deliver them over to your mercy
entirely. Work your wickedest will on them. I’ve
always been expecting to be found-out some day. Show
up the impostor. Nail him to the Red Page like a
vermin on a barn-door. But oh ! spare the poor spin-
dle-shanked nudity beneath the singing robes, which
he only uses for the express purpose of hiding his
shame.
J*
When Henley’s criticism of Burns appeared,
Stephens wrote—
lam still pondering your Burns. Very umviPing to
give in. And even granting all, is he the less a force,
and didn’t the force come from him, original-, native
to him? Balls are commonplace articles—so much so
that you don’t think of calling the ball an invention at
all. It is the powder that is the grand invention.
Burns was the powder that gave the ball its force. That
is the sort of line my ideas are taking. You see I
can’t give up my Burns ; though, to be honest, I never
ranked him with the first order of genius.
Later, he recurred to the subject—
About Burns. The indictment is no doubt very strong
But I am still seeking to know how far Burns pre-
tended to originality in the matter of these old
vamped-up songs. Of course, the settling of that
point would not alter the fact of Burns being not so
great a writer as one had previously believed. But
there still remains Burns the great inspiring Force—
and that is something unquestionably big. Anyway, I
am not so much shocked as many Scotchmen would be,
as I never ranked Burns in first order of great poets—
still less of great minds.
*
An article based on Prof. Sully’s Children’s
Ways interested Stephens. He debated the csnclusions
keenly—
Do not your remarks seem to favour the general
impression that complexity of braia necessarily
implies loss of vital force ? Does it even mean
dispersion of force ? Is it not simply that the complex
mind has the power of applying its totality of vital
force at a given time in any one of a much greater
variety of directions than was open to the simple
undeveloped mind ? If force is to be measured by its
results, is not this measurement all in favour of the
complex mind, both individually and racially?
Another point. The theatre audience and the music-
hall audience. Doesn’t the music-hall audience dis-
pense so readily with scenery simply because the per-
formances are mainly single songs that don’t want
scenery? Wouldn’t the self-same audience demand
scenery if they went, as they do, to a theatre to hear a
play ?
By the way. Isn’t it Louis Stevenson who some-
where contends that it is because children have less
imagination than grown-up people that they require
tangible dolls, tangible broomsticks (for horses), actual
sofas and chairs (for railway trains)—all this to assist
their feeble imaginations—whereas the grown-up imagi-
nation is so self-sufficing that a written description of
the things gives all the actuality wanted for pleasure.
It was a re-statement of Tennyson’s position
in literature that drew forth Stephens's warmest pro-
test. From his post of literary dilettante and genial
critic he was roused instantly to become champion and
advocate. He defended Tennyson as he would have
defended a personal friend.
I have just been reading your article on Tennyson..
All the same, I read it with considerable pain. To my
mind, when you have reduced the subject of your
discourse to a prig and a word-artificer, Tennyson
is still a long way from being accounted for. For my
own part, I care very little about whether Tennyson
was a prig or not, nor does it seem to me to matter
much what were his relations with the Queen. That
Tennyson was endowed beyond all except a select
few of the world’s poets with “the wisdom and the
faculty divine,” that he saw clearly, saw steadily, and
kept sacredly in sight “ the light that never was on sea
or land,” and that his immense power as an
expresser was essentially the outcome of vivid
and wide vision and clear and strong feeling, I believe
as thoroughly as I believe that I can read English.
What do I care about his social and political opinions I
I believe that the most rabid Tory may be as
richly endowed with the vision and the faculty afore-
said as the most advanced social democrat. With me
the consideration of the difference between the aristo-
cratic and democratic mind disappears altogether
before the consideration of Nature, inner and outer,
and the revelation thereof in human expression. That
is the plane on which I meet my Tennyson, and he has
to lift me up a long way (but with his strong arms he
does it with ease) before I can sit and breathe with him
there.
What of his effect on—not merely the average reader
who makes popularity—but on the most gifted minds
of his generation, and, as far as can be judged by the
present literary outcome, on the most gifted minds of
the present generation also ? Those who disagree with
his social opinions may try as they like, but they can
never get rid of Tennyson as a great force in the educa-
tion which means the evolution of the modern mind.
He is incorporated into the language and therefore into
the thought of the race. At every turn of the corner
in their reading his disparagers will meet him even
though they do not recognise him, and even the cham-
pions of advanced social views will champion them
all the better because Tennyson has been mixed with
their nourishment. The man who has not made him-
self familiar with Tennyson is at a great disadvantage
compared with the man who has. I don’t say “ com-
pared with the man by whom Tennyson is unappreciated
or wrongly appreciated,” because that man, if he knows
his Tennyson as y o u do, is as much beholden to him
as a large contributor to his intellectual and spiritual
fortunes as if he had not misconceived his benefactor.
You favourably contrast Browning with Tennyson as
regards—shall I say their theological outlook. ‘ I have
an immense admiration for Browning, hut I do not
accept either of them as an authority on theological
doctrine. But that does not interfere with my rever-
ential attitude towards both of them. I may be duly
grateful to a wealthy benefactor who showers sovereigns
on me, and yet not care a doit about his special theory
as to the matrix of gold. That is how I feel towards
Browning and Tennyson as theologians. As pqets, I
must say I have a higher appreciation of Tennyson. ’ I
prefer even a small kosmos (not that Tennyson is small)
to a huge chaos (not that Browning is all chaos, though
about half of him is slag). There is more revelation of
power and beauty in a single planetary system than in
a universe of chaos. Browning, I think, had a greater
wealth of ideas and a more impulsive mental activity
than Tennyson, but Tennyson’s deeper sense of the
sacredness of expression makes all the difference
between them as consecrated hards. But by expression
I mean something very different from mere word-
artifice. I believe with Masson that Shakespeare’s true
place in the history of the human mind is that of the
“greatest expresser” of human thought and experi-
ence, but that is something infinitely greater than
being the greatest of word-artificers.
I have not proved my point, which is that Tennyson
is great—a great poet—one of the very few great poets.
But you will observe also that I have not au mpted to
prove it. This is not a vindication of Tennvson. To
me the very idea of Tennyson requiring vindication is
extraordinary.
I am giving you my opinions freely, though opposed
to yours, because I am quite sure that, like myself, you
do not consider identity of views essential to friendship
or to mutual appreciation ...
I must now conclude these few lines hoping you are
well, and that even unto you the heavens may yet be
opened that you may see Tennyson sitting at the right
hand of Sh Mil I mean, Virgil.
WHAT RELIGION HAS HONE
My blood gets hot when I think what religion
has done to men. I cannot think of it without grief and
horror. I could not tell the long tragedy of shame, and
blood, and cowardice, and torture. I have not the
eloquence, nor the memory, nor the knowledge, to do
justice to those black annals of ignorance and crime. I
do not think I can hold my pity and anger within the
scope of measured language if I try to tell one tithe of
what I know—although my knowledge is so limited.
How many hundreds of piillions of innocent children’s
lives have been blighted with terror by religion ? How
many sweet natures have been soured, and how many
bright spirits have been broken, by the dread of hell ?
How many cruel wars have been waged upon religious
grounds, wars in which millions and millions of" brave
men have been slain, in which millions and millions of
women and children have been outraged and mur-
dered in the name of gods who never existed ? If
you want pictures of these savage butcheries and
devilish tortures, read your Bible ! Read the Psalms
and the Chronicles, and the prophets. If you need
historic proofs of what religion has been to thousands
of millions of human beings throughout life’s troubled
story, read the histories of the Christian and Mohamme-
dan Churches. Read of the Spanish Inquisition ; read of
the Bartholomew massacres ; read of the witchcraft
trials ; read of the martyred Jews, Christians, Pagans
heathen, Moslems ; read of the persecution of the men
of science and of reason in all ages by ignorant and black-
hearted priests. If you want internal evidence of the
gloom, the cowardice, the folly which have disfigured
nearly all the religions of the world, read the miserable
gibbenrigs and cursings of the mental malformations
which, before science let in daylight on a world of
savagery and despair, passed current as works of theologv
“ Think for ourselves ! ” By thunder, it is only withi'n
the past century or so that we could think for ourselves
what religion meant to us or to others, without danger
of being murdered or tortured in the name of Christ "or
Mahomet. But now we can think, if we can lay aside our
theological crutches and let our minds step boldly for-
ward, now we can think what religion has meant and
what it does mean. Yes, I admit that religion even in
the black past, has meant golden dreams and soft delu-
sions to many poor creatures who, in a world of Christ’s
followers, had no friend and no comfort to turn to on this
side of the grave. I do not claim that murder, hatred
rapine, and terror of hell and the Pope comprise the
whole truth about religion. Amongst much crime it has
done some good. But the balance is against it a million-
fold.—Robert Blatchford, in The Clarion.
BOOKFELLOW'S MIXTURE
H.A.D. : “Why not prequel?” Because the
literary law abhors bastardy . . . Even Dante will be
presently obtainable at sixpence in Cary’s translation . . .
“ Old-world Toryism ... of no literary importance . .
utterly without distinction . . . full of vigour, enthu-
siasm, sincerity, sound common sense ” are phrases from
The Athenoeum's review of Thirty Years in Australia
(March 28) . . . In Literature and Life W. D. Howells
invents wof to describe Work Of Fiction ; wofsmith, the
maker of wofs . . . . “ Abandon hope all ye who en t e r
(incorrectly) here,” is quoted by Pulsford as what shoufd
he written over the Federal Custom-House . . . Methuen
is preparing a photographic reproduction of the four
folios of Shakespear, at 12gs. net. The first folio has
been reproduced already several times ; but not the
other three. “ A really fine original set of the four folios
cannot now be bought for less titan £3000.” It was a
Sydney lady who discovered tlie other day, in a box of
forgotten old books, what looked like an original first folio,
and might have been worth £800 ; but—-Well, it wasn’t. . .
J.H. : Can’t see it. Certainly, we ’re all for honesty and
purity in politics ; but even an honest politician has no
business to bore you with paraded virtue. Ashton
is only a small man, but his ostensible Conscience would
be several sizes too big for George Washington. “Me
and my Conscience” end by Incoming tedious. They
irritate us in the way that Puritanism irritated England,
in the way that Aristides irritated the citizen who cast
his oyster-shell for banishment because he was sick of the
advertised paragon. Crick seems to be more or less of a
political rascal; but a mere five per cent, of Crick would
agreeably humanise “ the sad, prosaic lord of proprieties,”
as the inspired Crick once dubbed Ashton Tie Hop :
No sense in quoting the science of fifty years ago against
the science of to-day.... Kipling (Melb.) : In type.
“So Henry Lawson is dead.” E. C. Buley,
who claims to be “a young Australian,” affirms it in
Lond. To-Day of March 25, and adds a lengthy obituary
statement of qualified regret. “ Had he lived, he might
some day have realised the glowing promise of his first
book. But he is dead ” —E, C. Buley has killed him !
Gum-Tree’s whitmaniac chant after the dis-
closures of Baker and Smith, of N.S.W. Technological
Museum:—
One must pardon something to the epigrammatist ; and
that is not quite fair. Norton’s paper is a useful vehicle
for a great deal of matter which the “ respectable ” press
will not carry ; and while so many people believe that
her well is a good place to drown Truth in, one must not
complain if when she is lugged out she drips and looks
muddy.
“The factor in the situation which outweighs
all others is that, while South Africa is emphatically a
white man’s country, practically all manual labour is
done by the natives. This situation is a direct conse-
quence of well-known historic and ethnological causes,
but it is pregnant with grave evils for the moral and the
material prosperity of the society where it exists. If
British South Africa is ever to develop her natural re-
sources to the full, and to take her proper rank among
the great self-governing communities of the empire, she
must draw to her shores a large white population before
the economic framework of her institutions permanently
hardens upon the wrong lines. This end can be achieved
only by a gradual, but complete, change in the character
of the supply of labour. If the land is to become in the
true sense a white man’s country, it must become a
country of white labour, and it can only become a country
of white labour by establishing and maintaining a standard
of wages and living high enough to induce the labourer of
European blood to make it his permanent home. To the
attainment of this object the existence of a native popu-
lation, outnumbering the present white population of a
million by five or six to one, constitutes a serious
obstacle.”
And whence do you think we take this excerpt?
From Lond. Times—the paper which encouraged its
representative, Floral Shaw, to advocate the creation of a
servile community in Australia!
Amy Bemardy, in an Amer. magazine, denys
that Marion Crawford’s Italian novels truthfully repre-
sent Italian life. “It certainly is unquestionably true
that Air. Crawford’s Italy is entirely unlike the real
thing ; that while some particulars and descriptions are
good, the entire organisation of his novels is hopelessly
melodramatic, and falls hopelessly short of its ambitious
aim; that no Italian princess would ever think of
doing, and much less do, what the princess does in
Taquisara ; that never in Italy will people get married
as they do in A Roman Singer, at a moment’s
notice ; that no Roman princes will be choked to dej-th,
or princesses poisoned, brothers murdered, or deeds
duplicated and signatures forged quite so easily and
naturally as such things seem to happen in the novels of
Mr. Crawford.” And so on. Miss Bernardy, herself
Anglo-Italian, relates how an Italian editor refused her
review of Crawford’s works because it blamed his blun-
ders too weakly. “He is artificial, false, passe,” said the
indignant editor, “ even to the names of his characters—
‘Corona Saracinesca’ and ‘ Duca d’Astrardente,’ for
instance. The Italian language has never tolerated such
screeching sounds.” “ Ouida,” alas, falls similarly under
the Italian ban. “ Why this good lady will keep' bewail-
ing evils that never have existed save in her imagination,
and why she will persist in making herself miserable
upon her own conception of what Italy is and what she
should be, is the one thing that Italians cannot be made
to understand.” As for Hall Caine ! —but enough . . .
,. K- Chambers, in The Academy, makes tk
distinction between comedy and tragedy tw ew. 8
is “ ethical,” argues to current noDons of
al\\a\ s has its eye on the “ ought” • whifp fro a
not directly condemn or teach. But that is reSl ? 0es
distinction of labels, though illuminating. Where taV
moral in Pinero’s later plays- Iris, for exanmk? v he
you cannot classify these as “ tragedies ” in the! Yel
notation. “ageuies, in the common
Zaza 5K toRfM.'SmTX'
lines, runs thus: “This was the absurd tflHV, Kthe
rhyme with which La SvengaH chose to make herdZ?
. . . .She sang it tnree times over-the same verse tL
is but one.” In a fat little duodecimo volnm! :-.f re
Chansons Pppulaires de la France , 1,1 ed
published by Gamier Ftores, Paris (no
by Louis Montjoie, the song in question^KCiwS
ancienne, and is mentioned in the introduction
airsdu bon vieux temps, qui sont aujourd’hui denoted
universelle, tels que Marlbrough, An clair de la lune
to this version there are four stanzas (copy foiled
and the term nursery rhyme ” could never C ! •"!
to the complete chanson by anyone who had ever Sit
AIT CLAIR DE LA LURE.
Au clair de la lune, Mon ami Pierrot
Prite-moi ta plume Pour Retire un mot
Ma chandelle est morte, Je n’ai pas defeu.
Ouvre-moi ta porte. Pour Vamour de Dim',..
Au clair de la lune, Pierrot ripondit:
Je n’ai pas de plume, Je mis dans mon lit.
Va chez la voisine, Je crois qu’elle y est,
Car dans sa cuisine On bat le briquet.
Au clair de la lune, L’aimable Lubin
Frappe chez la brune ; Ell’ ripond soudain:
Qui frapp’ de la sorte ? 11 dit d son tour;
Ouvrez votre porte, Pour le dieu d’amour
Au clair de la lune, On n’y voit qu’un peu:
On chercha la plume, On chercha du feu.
En cherchant d la sorte, Je n’sais c’qu’on trouve
Mais j’sais que la porte Sur eux se fenna.
[Thus Shakespear’s snatch, “ To-morrow is Saint Valen-
tine’s .day” (Hum’H, iv, 5) would be an Eng. parallel
But it is suggested that- the tune may have commended
the first verse to mothers or children who never knew
the whole. A Frenchman might settle the point.]
The A ims and Objects of a Literature Society, by
H. G. Turner (Echo Publishing: Co., Melb.) is the third of
Melb. “Australian Literature Society’s” interesting
pamphlets. H. G. Turner, as most people know, has
waved a useful flag in front of the local literary battle;
but he was born too early to assimilate modern notions of
literature, and his enthusiasm is more admirable than his
judgment. Still: a pleasant little paper, with a plethora
of loose expressions. One sentence flashes out as a
motto for the schism-rent “Australian Literature
Society,” if it want a motto—
We... like to get together and talk, especially about
things we are not very familiar with.
The more you study that sentence, in regard to H.G.
Turner, and in regard to “The Aust. Lit. Society,” and in
regard to Australia, the more you will find in it. in
fact, it has not been made prominent enough, try
again :
Even now... but that must serve.
And...“ conscience ” (the instinct of order, the
instinct of justice) rises and asks, Is that fair, is that
just? What is there on the other side? Well, there are
Turner and the A. L. S. on the other side, with parapher-
nalia and propaganda and a set of polished ideals, lheir
whoop for Brallaghan will balance any outcry on uena
O’Callaghan. By all means let them whoop. There isn t
much in literary societies of dilettanti: they plav pretti)
and create nothing—not even standards, toe At ■
society is better than its class : it gives us pampme ,
and the pamphlets are readable. And as a focus for scat-
tered aims, an advertisement for current hteratu .
a spur to the purchasing public, it has a eia
upon affection. The working tribe of Australian writers
wants as much encouragement and advertisem _
as—as it deserves. Even H. G. Turner does not a .
praise all the wrong people. Sometimes you can
him doubting if Art really did stop short in the
rated court of the Empress Josephine, or thereabout
True, he tells us that, in the first Literary Society n«
connected with—
We decided that Longfellow was a greater poet
Tennyson ... most unforgivable of all, we n
Martin Farquhar Tupper on to a pedestal as one or
first-class poets of the Victorian era.
And... “on revient toujours k ses premiers amours.
A.G.S.
lam the Great Australian Gum-Tree: I sing my little
piece unabashed ;
Over the face of this vast land I sprawl, and also over
that rvhich is not the face, and beneath me you
sprawl, earner ados l
I am serene, slender, scented, straggling, and several
other things beginning with S ;
In fact, I am It — and these are my miracles:
I contain eucalyptol, eudesmol, geraniol, and methyl
alcohol,
Also ethyl alcohol, butyl alcohol, amyl alcohol and aroma-
dendrol,
Together with citral, citronellal, butaldehyde, valerdl-
dehyde,
Not forgetting piperitone and geranyl-acetate,
Besides amyl-eudesmate, valeric acid, ester, acetic acid
ester, and eudesmic acid — Stes-vous fatiguA ? moi, je
ne mis pas fatigue :
On the contrary 1 proceed to include acetic- acid, aroma-
dendrene, pinene (both dextro and laevorotatory—
spell rightly, 0 eamerados compositores !)
I surround phellandrene and cymene, and cymene and
phellandrene know it (Baker and Smith also knowing
it);
And doubtless I have lots of other qualities that have not
yet been found out ;
Therefore 1 wave my tail in the air and yell for A us-
tralia vehemently,
COO-00-00-00-EE-EE-EE-EE !
This is the idea of our youngest rhymer,
G.C.W.—
Truth is John Norton’s honoured wife,
And, that her garb be decent—see
How every Sunday of his life
He clothes with mud her nudity l
NEWLY PUBLISHED
Dewdrop Danby, by Harold Hansell (2s. 6d.) is
a small book produced in attractive form by the’Ex-
change Press, Melb. (The machine impression is not
good, however.) The contents are thirteen short sketches
which the publisher’s commendatory circular “guaran-
tees ” to be “quaint, humourous, and interesting, and
totally different to anything else ever written or’pub-
lished in Australia.” Consequently we regret to find
them mild littie, neat little yarns of the average weekly
quality, undistinguished and impotent.
May number of N.S. W. Agricultural Gazette
contains Govt, inspector A. A. Dunnicliffe’s illustrated
report of N. A. Gatenby’s sheep-feeding experiment at
Jt-malong. In defiance of the proof of China, India, and
America, and in the teeth of the drought losses, there
are still Australian blockheads who deride the profit of
irrigation. To bring these to greater shame, N. A.
Gatenby, of Jemalongstation,near Forbes,N.S.W.,proved
that on 22k acres of lucerne, irrigated from the Lachlan,
he could keep alive 75 sheep to J,he acre, and improve
their condition. The experiment was watched during
several months by the Govt, inspector, who says that
I am quite satisfied from my experience, confirmed
at Jemalong, that from one acre of good lucerne fifty
sheep per annum may be primely fattened for Home-
bush market; and in saying that I am keeping well
within the mark.
Sellbridge and Go., an Australian story, by
Joyce Vincent (J. C. MacCartie ; 3s. 6d.), is an example
of a class of Action that will presently find a profitable
sale in Australia, as population increases. It is a read-
able tale of life in a Victorian town, not brilliant, not
dull, with many truthful pictures of character done in
“Ada Cambridge’s” bright, homely manner, and with
unexpected little turns of plot and comment that are
purely Australian and pleasantly fillip interest. If this
be a first. book, it bolds distinctive promise ; and we hope
that, even in the face of insufficient remuneration, the
author will continue to write. Her (?) work is much more
agreeable to read than the average foreign novel.


WINGHGOMBE, CARSON, and GO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDNE Y.
FUR SKINS!
Kangaroo, Wallaby, Rabbit, Opossum.
SEKTD TO .
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
dm^SYDNEY,
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL SALESHEN.
The Go-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Commission 3 Per Cent, to the G-rower
on Large and Small Accounts Alike.
S. FREEMAN ✓ SONS L!2|IH
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES!
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and GraYel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA,
NEITHER CRACK
*8
saoa
NOR BORN.
a°
\
6800
CBB
6807
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
QUARANTEB.—ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bara •
New One will be Exchanged for It Immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe
N
■Li! IL
sia
j* it
or
. RICHMOND,VA.
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
“SOLID SHOT” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
Sole Agent for C. 8.8. Briar Pipes.
Send for Whole sale Price Lists.
“Arkansas” Mixture
A Blend of the very highest grade Tobaccos.
Packed in |lb. Tins, 7s. 6d. lb.
Sample Jib. Tins, 25., post free.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
A grand free Book, telling you how we have
cured thousands of suffering men and women
after every other remedy had failed, giving
beautiful illustrations, showing how we direct
the current of new nerve energy to every part
of the human body.
Write for it, enclosing this advt., and we
will send it sealed, free, and post paid.
We CURE Rheumatism, Weak
Back, Nerve Complaints, Debility.
DrMUGIINS
■Mil
'•II
linn*}
■Mil
ELECTRIC BEIT
Consultation and advice. Call and have a
diagnosis of your case made; it will cost you
nothing. Let us show you and explain how we
invariably cure every case we undertake. We
only ask you to call; if you do not choose to
adopt our method of treatment we will not
charge for any advice we give you. Hours—
-9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
Stomach or Kidney Troubles,
Sciatica, Constipation, Lumbago.
BELT WITHOUT DRUGS
We do not advertise to sell you an Electric Belt, and when you send for one tell you that you
don’t need electricity, that a Belt WITHOUT drugs is useless. We insist that it is foolish for you
to buy drugs. Drug treatment is expensive and useless if you have a really good Electric body
appliance. The reason WE DON’T TRY TO SELL YOU DRUGS is that our «Belt ”is an
Electric Appliance, manufactured by practical Electricians in our own factory, not made by manufacturing jewellers, as others generally are, and because a
genuine Electric Belt cures without drug assistance. All our dealings are consistent, all our assertions true. We depend upon the merits of our Belt, and all our
statements are verified. We have one constant course, one aim—to cure a sick man. You can’t afford to miss a trial of our Belt. You can’t afford to stay ill.
General Debility.
Whakapara, Auckland, N.Z.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. ~ .
Dear Sirs, —I am glad that I bought the Belt, for it has done
me a lot of good. It is making me take a good meal, which I
could not do before I got the Belt. It is making a different man
of me ; I get up in the morning quite refreshed. I am now also
able to sleep at night. I get up with a nice taste in my mouth,
and the pain has left my back. I feel better in health than I
have done for years since I have been using your Belt, and I
thank my God that I applied to your Company for the Belt.
Yours very truly, G. B. HALL.
Nervous and Kidney Troubles.
Adavale, Queensland.
To Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs,—According to promise I send you a report of the
Electric Belt I got from you. I beg to say it has done me a lot
of good. I have the full use of my arms now, and I can thoroughly
recommend the Belt to anyone suffering from loss of nerve power.
In fact, I should never have believed the benefit derived from
your Belt if I had not tried it. Wishing you and your Belt every
success.
I remain, dear sirs, truly yours,
F. G. DIGHTSON.
Was a Cripple.
“ Stanmoie,” Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Dear Sir,—Regarding your Electric Belt, I am glad to tell you
it is working well. I am still wearing it regularly, and have
every confidence in its good results. lam rapidly recovering and
hope to continue so. lam working regularly, that is more than
I did before I used it, and, what’s more, I can sleep splendidly and
eat well. I hope, in the near future, to send you an honest testi-
monial, accompanied by my photo., to show the sickly world the
honest good your Belt has done to an unfortunate, one-time
cripple.
I remain, &c., Yours,
R. G. 0. SALTER.
These letters prove the gratitude of our patients; prove that there is more in life than some of us are wont to make out; prove that when we tell men and women that we can cure them
we will not disappoint them. Read them carefully, and imagine how nice it would seem for you to talk likewise. Do as they did, and if you are at all curable, we’ll make you strong and
vigorous They read our advertisement. Sonje of them called at our office, learned what we said was true, had a free test of our Belt, and began to get well. Others wrote, being too far away
to call They asked for our beautiful, illustrated book, describing our method. We sent it them. It is free, and we mail it to any address, post paid. They got it, read it, and testimonials
from dozens of other people who had been similarly afflicted, made up their mind, began the treatment, and to-day, dear reader, you see the result.
FREE DIAGNOSIS.
If you will write for our book and statement blank, we will diagnose your case,
entirely free of any cost. THERE IS NO CATCH TO THIS STATEMENT. We
make no charge, except the price of a Belt, if you decide to buy one. You should read
the hook, anyhow ;it is full of good things for a sick man to see. Beautifully illustrated, and sent free to any address. Post paid.
OUR BELTS ARE SENT EVERYWHERE—DUTY FREE.
THE DR. MoLAUGHLIN CO..
100 W. Market St., Sydney
Melbourne Office—l67E Swanston Street.


SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT :
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.
Manufacturing and
Dispensing Chemists.
We have special remedies for the correct and effective treatment of Nerve and Blood Diseases. Testi-
monials from all sources proving their efficacy. Write for Printed Price Lists ; they will be mailed free.
NOTICE.—Our ELECTRIC BELT, price 10s., usual price £l, is infallible in the cure of WEAKNESS and
STOMACH DISORDERS. Electricity re-invigorates the vital nerve sections, governing the processes
of digestion and nutrition. It effects a sure cure. DR. CLARKSON’S “ RE-INVIGORATOR,” a
VITALISING, NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT. We still offer £lOO for
any case we cannot cure. Price, 7s. 6d. per bottle. Three bottles, £l. Post Free to all parts of
Australia.
Pyramid Pile Cure.— A certain remedy.
Fincham’s Face Bleach.— Clears the skin from Spots, Redness, Roughness, Freckles, Tan,
Sunburn. &c. Invaluable for use in the country.
Finch im's Infallible Worm Powders.— Specially suitable for children. A certain cure for
worms.
Fincham’s Celebrated Pectoral “Cough I Cure.”— lnvaluable for children. A Reliable
Remedy for Croup, Asthma, Whooping Cough, and all Throat and Lung Affections.
Fincham’s “Gout and Rheumatic Cure. ’’--Takescertain effect in cases of Acute Lumbago,
Sciatica, Lame Back, Headache, Shoulder and Muscular Pains.
Dr. Hughes’ “Fits Epilep.”— A certain remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms.
Dr. Wilson’s “ Neuralgia Mixture.”— One Dose Relieves, One Bottle Cures the most
agonising Face Neuralgia. j j
Fincham’s “Capiline.”— A Nursery Hair-Wash for Children’s Heads. Unsurpassed. One Bottle
Sufficient. L,.i V. 1
Ail these Invaluable Remedies will be posted to any Australian address, secure
from breakage, on application to—
Note the Address: THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
C. P. FINOHAM, Pharmaceutical Chemist. 227 ELIZABETH ST., Opp. Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
The High=Class Smoking Mixture.
Has
NO EQUAL
IN
QUALITY.
W Tobacco
Cigarette
J
m
Factory
hark
niLD,
MEDIUn,
FULL.
In £lb. Air Tight Tins.
PURVEYORS OP
PURE TOBACCOS
Manufactured by ihe ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LONDON.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages ; price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
HOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, 50 engraving's, 3/6
posted, 4/-. Howto Mesmerise, 1/-; Magic
Up-to-Date, 1/3 ; Metal Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6; Camille, 1/3 ; How to
Play Billiards, 1/3 ; How to Vamp, 1/3;
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book op Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
1/-: Poultry Keeping, 1/-; Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 1/-; Parlor Magic, 1/. ;
Dream Book, 1/-; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6 ; Carpentry, 1/6 ; Lightning
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor, 1/6 ;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts,
1/3 ; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/3 ;
Book of Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer’s Oracle,
3000 subjects, 1/6 ; Self Instructor, 1/3 ;
How to Dance, 1/3 ; Art of Boxing, 1/3 ;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3; Moll Flanders,
1/6; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3 ; Ven-
triloquism, 1/- ; Comic Reciter, 150 gems,
1/3; Irish Comic Reciter, 1/3; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3; Nigger Stump
Speeches, 1/3; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3 ; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6; Sappho (genuine), 1/6;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6 ;
Advice to Women, 1/3; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 3/-; Palmistry, chart and guide,
6d. ; Clog Dancing, 1/-. Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues—Plays, Conjuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK AND MAGIC
ARCADE, -
201 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
mwi;
n
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
la the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neees
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable andl
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Aertex Cellular Underwear is a Sure Preventative ayainst Chills
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White bodj r , 7o 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Dress Shirt*
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body-
-98 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d c s 6d
I'!’®
’"
<
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
High or Low Necks.
s. d
White Cotton, trimmed
. Lace .. .. .. 5 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. .. 7 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 9 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery .. .. .. 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..90
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 29 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
: i!
Aertex Cellular Chemises.
White Cotton, trimmed Embroidery,
Bs. White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices,
High or Low Necks. All sizes
to 30in ; large sizes, extra.
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
(Send for Illustrated
DAVID
Sole Agents.
Price List—Post Free.
BRAHAM & GO.,
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Cellular Tennis Shirt,
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. Cd. to 11s. 6d.
mm mMiM
■ f •* kk*mtj* . *.%m
& * *ss&•£' , V*> fAI *5, *4 *
>J
4*-
<*
ffifflaraßlls
jiffe .•flsrra* «
•«s X'* «>*>>
M§P*
HR
££&&*
A Piece op
Aertex Cellular Fabric.
Fabrics by the yard or piece- In
Cottons, Bd. to Is. 9d. ; I,isle
Thread, Is. 3d. to 2s. ; Silk and
Cotton Mixture, 3s. 6d. ; Merinos
and Wools, 3s. 3d. to 4s. 9d.; Silk
and Merino Mixture, 4s. (id.
Send for Full Price List.
Aertex Cellular Corsets,
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. .. 15 6
C 2 ~ long waist, 14£in deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 141 in., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
Y Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips ..16 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. ..86
There’s SECURITY in
w Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVEFt
PILLS,
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUCH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are Carter’s
TATTE RS A
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
L’S
IMPORTANT NOTICE
on evT?v aSTKfiSLJSHa h | v “ l^im P° sed a tax of One Penny
Aus laSa fLw'fld 11 '! aft T V 6
ticket applied for, or 4d. for e&rTAlfand so e * tra for eaoh 5a
now OPEN
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 3, 50,000 at 5/1.
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vie , July 4, 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMAN I W
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
A Mb, Comineicial Bank of 1 as: mini a, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to ad vise GEORGE ADA Alb of amount, with their name and full address.
•Gmail 1 arcels addressed to me ca i be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVER V CO. dob- business wi.h Tasmania.


m
If you are young,
you naturally ap-
|pear so.
F If you are old,
why appear so ?
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
will surely restore
color to your gray
hair, and will give
to it all the
wealth and
gloss of ear-
ly life. It
will stop
falling of
the hair
also; and
will keep
the scalp clean and healthy, entirely
free from dandruff.
And it makes the hair grow thick
and long. This is because it is a hair-
food, giving to the hair just what it
needs to make it grow as nature in-
tended.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
There’s a pleasure in offering to you
such a preparation ; while you will cer-
tainly feel a sense of security in using
something that others have used for
half a century.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wig’zell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. Ion?,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering: for the head, 30/- each.
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
80AP8
DISINFECTORS
INHALERS
FUMICATORB
ANfl
fiISINFECTINC
FLUID.
lb
COLORLETO
FRAGRANT
NON.
POIBONOUB
OOEB NOT
STAIN
KILLB ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles -
Formic Fumigators
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
"HOW TO DISINFECT " Book Free.
The “SANITAS” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, Ej
a
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemisf
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
I Try W
The Only Certain
Uoustache Produetr.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
9
Tm Remit.
CRAIG & AITKEiW N.S.W. Barber's Supply
House, 683-682 aEJRUE STREET, srOHEf.
The representative book of Australian humor—
STEELE RUDD’S
“ On Oar Selection.”
W/
(kT\
Ixx'xS'
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
, I®
sso'wfsTail
S.NO+ON.^OI
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10*
H. Hillier,
180 Sussex-sb.,
SYDNEY.
tar Send for a
Catalogue.
r~W
Went Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE t<
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
21/-
21/-
MOST MARVELLOUS VALUE
A SOLID SILYER KEYLESS
Hunting Watch.
Heavy Case, Sound Movement,
Perfect Timekeeper
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
21/-
Posted Duty Free to any part of Australia.
Send for my Mew Illustrated Catalogue.
QUEENSLAND LEADING JEWELLER
H. F. SMITH,
Queen Street, Brisbane
and at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
rrwi
Iks
REPEATING RIFLES
repeat. They don’t jam, catch, or fail to extract.
In a word, they are the only reliable repeaters.
Winchester rifles are made in all desirable
calibers, weights and styles; and are plain, par-
tially or elaborately ornamented, suiting every
purpose, every pocket-book and every taste.
WINCHESTER AMMUNITION
made for all kinds of shooting in all kinds of guns.
Winchester guns and Winchester ammunition are<-
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS.
WE STOCK, AIX WINCHFSTPP GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH STREET, fIELBOURNE.
GOOD HA.IM for ALL l
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss, Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
gg- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
Kg' For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9a. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
k CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and **
E. HOLLANP, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE*
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*X*O DEFY COIVJiPiiJTITIOJSr.
WINES
The Best Brands O'lUy >f
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, feo.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Spuds Went Up.
I am getting near to fifty,
And I’ve seen a varied life ;
I’ve had times of fun and frolic.
And I’ve had a share of strife.
I have known some sudden changes
From the depths of hopeless woe
To the sunny heights of pleasure
With Good Fortune’s tide at flow—
But in all my life’s transitions,
Drinking Woe’s or Pleasure’s cup,
Ne’er have known such pure elation
As I felt when spuds went up.
It was back in days of boyhood,
When we all worked on the farm,
When we shared each other’s pleasure
And we felt each other’s harm.
Through our district crops had suffered
From disease and blight and drought,
And for most of us all prospt cts
And all hope had given out.
Crop succeeding crop had failed us—
Next, we thought, ’twas Ruin’s turn—
And the spuds that year we planted
In a hopeless unconcern.
-A 11 the neighbors planted early,
And we planted early, too,
For we reckoned that the March rains
Might come down and pull us through.
But our hopes were disappointed,
All the month it didn’t rain;
So, for other crops, our neighbours
Went and ploughed theirs out again.
As for us, we’d staked our fortunes—
We no longer hoped or feared—
We had grimly vowed to leave it
If those ’taturs ne’er appeared !
We’d begun to plan our movements
In the future, when the rain
Came in time to save our ’taturs,
And it cheered us up again !
Then it poured like all Gehenna,
And the frost was late that year—
And the crop was out of danger
Ere the first of it came near.
And when we had started digging, •
Oh ! it filled full Pleasure’s cup
When the Old Man came from market
With the news that “ Spuds was up ! "
If you’ve dug ’em in mid-winter,
When the frost is on the ground,
And each blessed spud you pick up
Is with inud encrusted round ;
In the morn with fingers aching,
While you ’re sweating at the brow,
You will know it isn’t pleasant,
But we didn’t make a row ;
For we’d something then to work for,
And scarce stopped for bite and sup
While the daylight lingered with us—
We had spuds, and spuds were up !
N.S.W.
ULOOLA.
Benching.
I am beueher at a sawmill,-cuttin’ firewood blocks
for town,
And the wages that I’m getting aren’t grand ;
But a fellow can’t go picking when his loot is
“ melted down ” ;
He’s got to collar anything at hand.
The bench is rather crazy, slung together anyway,
And it wobbles when the engine’s going strong ;
And the belt flies off the pulley, and I’m worried
all the day,
For one thing or another'3 mostly wrong.
And the lumper slings the billets with a wallop
on the bench—
Though I curse him—and it lurches and it rocks !
There—he’s jammed my blessed fingers ; Oh ! his
bloomin’ neck I’ll wrench
When I’m finished with this biinded tiuck of
blocks.
“ The engine is a new one,” says the boss, “or
nearly so ; ”
But these second-hand affairs are seldom good,
And I’ve had to overhaul it, and I drive it; so, I
know
That in places it is neatly packed with wood.
Bub I’ve got to keep it going—open valve, at
fifty-five,
And the trucker has to watch and keep it stokec ;
And if we’re short of water ere the next lot can
arrive,
We chance it—let her rip and keep her poked.
The plugs won’t always hold her; they will get
afire some day,
And then—the thought my blessed system shocks !
But I seldom dwell upon it, and I let her pound
away,
While the circular is tearing through the blocks.
Then the splitters come a-growling ’bout the ends
I throw aside,
And curse because I say : “ Well, chop 'em
square.”
But the boss says: “Never heed ’em, keep the
margin pretty wide;
Y’ want the ends for stoking : let ’em swear.”
So with driving and with swearing, and the belt
a-slipping too,
And the water-carter loafing at the creek,
And with benching and with oiling I’ve enough
and more to do
(The salary ain’t very much per week).
I’ve got to grin and do it—run the whole con-
founded show—
At a rate that sweating records simply knocks ;
And the pace ! why, by comparison a lightning
streak is slow—
When I’m keeping orders filled for firewood
blocks.
VIC.
BEN SUN.


QWINO TO INCREASED DEMAND FOR THE
HIGHEST CLASS OF SCOTCH WHISKY
THE PROPRIETORS ARE NOW PLACING ON THIS MARKET THEIR
“EXTRA SPECIAL" QUALITY
FOUR RED CROWN WHISKY,
OLD AND MELLOW,
the Mine as supplied under ROYAL WARRANT, and sold largely in Great Bri ain.
♦
IN BULK AND BOTTLE. From all Hatels and Spirit Merchants.
- ♦
Wholesale Agent, NORMAN SHELLEY, YORC STREET, SYDNEY.
Acute Dyspepsia.
“Clements Tonic Restored
all my Strength and Vigor.”
The Case of N|rs WATKINS.
(by our reporter.)
There is a period in every person’s life,
particularly when in sorrow, that the sym-
pathy of a friend in need is greatly appre-
ciated, and although it is difficult to con-
jecture how many hearts may be gladdened
by the news appearing below, it is safe to
remark that Mrs Rachael Watkins, of
Grosvenor-street, Woollahra, was actuated
by the best of motives in saying :
“My health was in such an unsatisfae-
tory state some time ago that I could nob
enjoy life. Every day I got up with a
splitting headache which made me feel sad
and wretched from morning till night, and,
owing to the taste I had, I felt so sick that
I could not touch any breakfast. My tongue
was dry and my throat was so parched that
I was constantly drinking water, yet the
thirst from which I suffered still remained
Sometim°s midday went by and still I did
not feel hungry, Out as sure as I did take a
little food I paid dea ! ly for it afterwards. ’’
“ In what way, Mrs. Watkins ? ” enquired
the pressman.
“I used to feel ill all over me, especially
if there happened to be a little salt in my
food, which had the effect of making my
mouth and throat so much inflamed that it
was painful for me to swallow anything;
but the stomach seemed to be the worst
part, as it was distended with wind
which came from the food which had not
digested, and the cramping pains inside
were simply horrible. Windy spasms often
caused me to get up in the middle of the
night and walk the floor in agony, for it
was more than I could do to lie there quietly
and suffer such frightful torture. What-
ever I had eaten always repeated, but it
would not come up, much as I would have
liked it to, as then I would have felt a
little easier.”
“ How long had you suffered in this
way ? ”
“ I was very ill for twelve months.
Everything went wrong, even my ehest
being painful with a heavy sensation which
almost stifled me. Many a time I tried to
vomit, thinking that if I could only do so I
would be much relieved, but the lump in
my chest seemed to be a fixture, and fre-
quently made me feel as if I were taking
my last breath, the trouble in breathing
was so great. I became so terrified that I
might suffocate whilst in bed that I used to
prop myself up with pillows, and, notwith-
standing the fact that I always felt weak
and worn out, I could not sleep when I did
retire, being very restless till about two or
three o’clock in the morning. When I
ought to have been asleep was the only
part of the twenty-four hours that I seemed
to liven up a bit, but it was very unnatural
for me to be so fidgety, and my system was
drained of all its vital force on that account.
If I did fall asleep I began dreaming, and
when I woke up I tried to recollect what I
hid been dreaming about, but my memory
was so defective that I could not recall any-
thing to mind. Scarcely an hour passed
without some annoyance being caused by
sharp pains between my shoulders, and es-
pecially under my left shoulder-blade, and
my legs ached so much that after standing a
little while the aches developed into dis
tinct pains. Across my loins the aches
were really terrible. I use 1 to think they
came through sitting down so mu h, but I
found when I walked the pains were still
more severe The least effort on my part
resulted in giddiness coming on, so I had to
be very careful how I went about, particu-
larly as my eyes were often so affected that
I could scarcely see out of them. If I
stooped to pick up anything from the floor
I felt half-dazed for a while, my head reel-
ing awfully, and small black specks dancing
all round. Not only did I lose all my
strength, hut my nervous system was quite
unstrung.”
“I believe you consulted a doctor, Mrs.
Watkins. W hat did he say your complaint
was ? ”
“My doctor said I was suffering from
acute indigestion and he treated me accord-
ingly, but to my intense dismay I could
see I had no hope of recovering under his
treatment, as the medicines he prescribed
did not have any good effect. In my sor-
rowful condition I lost heart completely. I
did not know what to do, especially as I had
got so much more feeble that on many oc-
casions I had to lie do wn in a state of ex-
haustion the whole of the day. It looked
to me as though my remaining days were
to be spent in misery, from which there was
no escape ; but I thought I ought to try
everything at my disposal, so I started doc-
toring myself with adverti ed medicines,
and when I had taken enough of them to
base an opinion upon, I was forced to con-
clude that my afflictions were incurable.
As those me iicines were also useless I
thought, in my desperation, that everything
else was the same, but a lady friend spoke
so favourably about Clements Tonic that I
could not help buying some.”
“ Did you find it acting as your friend
said it would ? ”
“Yes, thank God ! her advice was not
misleading, for Clements Tonic had precisely
the effect which I was told it would have,
although my condition was so low that it
took a little time to make headway. Once
Clements Tonic got my maladies on the
move, however, it shifted them with great
despatch. I started by picking up my ap-
petite and getting an occasional sound
night’s rest; then, when my head was free
from pain, I slept tranquilly right through
every night, and the aches left my limbs by
degrees. I considered this a great amount
of success for Clements Tonic to achieve,
taking into account the repeated failures I
had met with, so I got more of it as it was
required, and I shall never regret that I
stuck steadfastly to the same remedy, to
which there was nothing to compare for so
restoring my internal organs to a healthy
state that my food digested properly. My
vision became clear, the distention of and
pains in my stomach did not occur again,
and the stifling sensations left my chest.
To put it briefly, I was relieved of every
pain which had made my life a martyrdom,
besides having my nervousness quite
abolished, and you may d pend I was de-
voutly thankful to Clements Tonic for bring-
ing b.ick all my strength and vigor. In
every re-pect I was like a new woman, for
I had suffered from rheumatism close on
five years, and Clements Tonic was the only
medicine which gave me relief. My feet
and nearly all the joints in my body had
been assailed by severe rheumatic pains, but
Clements Tonic found its way to those parts
an I gradually diminished my tortures. In
all cases of sickness I recommend to my
friends the use of Clements Tonic, and you
may publish these remarks in any way you
desire. ”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I. Rachael Watkins, of Grosvenor-street,
Woollahra, Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that 1
have carefully read the annexed document,
consisting of four folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to four, and that it contains and is a true
and faithful account of my iliness and cure by
Clements Tonic ; and also contains my full permis-
sion to publish in any way my statements— which
I give voluntarily, without receiving any pay-
ment ; and 1 make this solemn declaration con-
scientiouslv believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Waverley, this twelfth
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two,
before me,
J. L DALE, J.P.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His 'Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Prtt.
Y By FRANK RENAR. \ Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
roft TIHE BtJSH WoRKKf
am-Hu/c
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. VVill be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barooo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet P* l ® B a “
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, eto.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JJOTICE TO M'M.BOURNS
VISITORS
WIMPOLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF far
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-Bt., South Melbourne.
f tUphone Ne. MS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
■elected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOJ33
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
eeparate'y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
0T BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
IHE MOST MiTRIUCIS.
EPPS’S
GRATBFUI*—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPFEK.
DEBILITATED
T\7EAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
VV trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
, CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
my pioposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases t and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, M R.C.S . En*..
129 Collins-gt., Me bourne.
RUPTURE
with(\il
operation or pain,
thr»w_*wjj
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The. only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustra.ee
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
CN«.,
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
RESCUED from DI^INK
By a new discovery, odorless
and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food.
It dues its work so silently and
surely that while the devoted
wife, sister or daughter looks on
the drunkard is reclaimed even
agaiust his will and without his
knowledge or co-operation.
Miss Edith WILLIAMS, who
cured her father after years of
misery, wretchedness and almost
unbearable suffering, says :—“ I
Shall be so glad if you publish my
experience, fur it will reach
many others and let th. m know
about the wonderful EUCRA SY.
I will do all I can to help any
Buffering sister who will write me.” Send name and
address to THE
Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st, Sydney,
and they will send you Booklet and particulars FREE.
The Australian Sailorman’s Book—
E. J. BRADY’S
“the Ulays of many maters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
6s. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
Refreshing and Agreeable,
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
toilet soap.
A pleasant Antiseptic SoaD front.,- •
pure Carbolic Acid). Should P be
to improve the skin and complexion * n i^ ular V
infection. >"piexionand prevent
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng,
'MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
°ihtment
CURES
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTERS
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head ache* (tail Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Store*.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I hart
need it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilsox, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDiLL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness. Head ache
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, 4c'
Of all 6tores.
Rupture
Free Cure,
Wonderful Home Treatment That Cures
Without Pain or Less of Time.
Dr. W. S. Bice (Dept. 268), 8 & 9, Stonecuttei
Street, London, E.C., has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, danger, operation, o
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. T
avoid all questions of doubt, he sends free to ever
MR. JOHN WESLEY.
sufferer a free trial of his method and there can te
no earthly reason why anyone, rich or poor,
not avail themselves of this generous offer. Asm
instance of this remarkable method, the cure o
Mr. John Wesley, Castle Lachlan, Inverary Argjie,
is a welcome intelligence. Mr. M esley 19 *
preserved and highly respected gentleman, 7
of age. After a short use of the Rice method the
rupture healed entirely. To-day he sso
a bell. If you know anyone ruptured you s
tell them of this wonderful method, which WUI
be sent for trial free of all costs.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant ever)' purchase*
of our
electric
BELTS and
AI’FLIAXCM
a trial of SO days below
payment, which 13 ,a J
explained in our hLMr
TRIC ERA.” Our Eiec-trie
Belts will cure all Nbn
YOUS and other Dikm"
in all stages, howe e
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust healtn.
Our Marvellous Ele* B
Bells give a steady soot
int, current that ca”
felt by the wearer tbrou„
all the weak part.
Remember, we ‘
Witten g“» ra ß n e ,Khalit
each Electric
win permanently cure you. If it exiottl
promptly return the full amount paid-
what we say, and do precise..? what w P tou g end
NOTICE.-Before purchasing we P r ""\ free ) giving
for our Electric Era and Price List (P seXES,
illustrations of different nloS t sceptical
liiuaiiui/ioiia "rr ,
also Testimony which will convince ti
Address:
German Electric Appliance
Elizabeth Stbeet, SYDNEY.
ALL CHEMISTS
ppor finsems
4r and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETi
e PER BOX


SPECIALISE in but one direction, i.e.,
EQUIPMENT OF OFFICES
on an UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM
tlie
No Business can
succeed without
METHOD.
This METHOD
we supply.
WABASH
EXPANSION
Bus ness
Systerr.B.
L' tter File*.
Document File*
Card Index
Systems
For alu
Businesses.
Write for
Catalogue.
i M i • -
L_ ■
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australasia.
AN EDUCATION
IS PROVIDED by the American
Sotuol of Correspondence,
at Armour Institute of Tech-
nology, Chicaoo, who conduct
Engineering Tuition by corres-
pondence, and aim to extend, at small cost, a valuable
technical education to the great wage-earning classes
everywhere. The courses are especially practical,
and are adapted to the needs of working people who
are willing and anxious to advance. Electrical,
Steam, Mechanical, Civil and Sanitary Engineering,
Drawing, Mathematics, Architecture, and Textile
Manufacturing, Mining. Catalogue “ B,” describing
Courses, Methods and Terms, sent on request to
R. N. FERGUSON, Electrical Engineer (Manager
Australia), P.O. Box 629, Sydney, N.S.W.
niotisA
Reader, why not be able to use ths
most mysterious and powerful force ol
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hour* time, with-
out leaving your home. You canper*
i form all the many marvellous feats
| that are possible to the Hypnotist.
. Through Hypnotism you can curediseass
> conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambition*, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it I hays
just issued in book f rm a mammoth
1 illustrated LESSON or Key to
[Hypnotism, which fully explains
I the mysteries and secrets
|of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the *ind
ever published. For a short
time I wi 1 send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a c ance of
a life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
*
MEN
I!
you
axe
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165 Collins street, Melbourne.
EEEHE
VEGETABLE
THB ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Charcoal
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri*
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG'S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle orTin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L.B., in monogram.'on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
t\EAR SIR,—I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
Pitt street, Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
58., P. 0.0. or stamps.
8. RECKNAGEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffaoh, Germany
THE BALLET GIRL
i
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frso, is
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frasi is.
l*nd stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Sovslties
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0., IYDNIY.
roe BABY’S SION
scaip m iuir
Something for Mothers to Think About
EVERY CHILD born into the world with an inherited
or early developed tendency to distressing, disfiguring
humours of the skin, scalp, and blood, becomes an object
of the most tender solicitude, not only because of its suf-
fering but because of the dreadful fear that the disfigura-
tion is to be lifelong and mar its future happiness and
prosperity* Hence it becomes the duty of mothers of
such afflicted children to acquaint themselves with the
best, the purest, and most effective treatment available,
viz., THE CUTICURA TREATMENT.
Warm batha with Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales
and soften the thickened cuticle, gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, to instantly allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, to be followed in the severer cases by mild doses of Cuticura Resol-
vent Pills (see below), to cool and cleanse the blood, are all that can be
desired for the alleviation of the suffering of skin-tortured infants and
children and the comfort of worn-out, worried mothers. A single set is
often sufficient to cure when the best physicians fail.
Millions of Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticdra Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for
cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping of falling hair, for
softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings,
and chaflngs, in the form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, In the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
CtmctTßA Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated) are prepared to meet the wants of
delicate women, and sensitive children, and are pure, sweet, and tasteless. They are
beyond question the most successful blood purifiers and humour cures yet compounded.
Cdticuba Remedies »re Bold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns St Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de is Paix, Paris. Potter Drug and Chem.
Cobp.. Sole Props.. Boston, U. S. A. *• All about the Skin.** free.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength
for a.II who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourn<
since 1886, has so perfected his ■ method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthmia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
geek, tlxe Truth, it: coats Uothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOME cyclopedia
KMBRACTHO
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.’*
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 PIRtM. M Chromoa. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestlino, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), IsSd post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Ohiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, 1* 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Datb Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis
tant,.2s 6d. Write me for any Booh you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Qatalogue- post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using CASE’S A3THMA CURE, made -from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle]
Posted to e.ny State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing. .
to «W, C
; n d^ 1
bVe« s ’
iS
®«*S
fuca^^ ttS
te a .. a® 4 Co ids-
Ed® 10 '
c&a° a ’ atl d
Co»8® s ._,\ o o s -
TW°
\to*
\d
R I Aip’O
GOUT k RHEUMATIC
The Great English Remedy fop
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALCIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
ASTHMACURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, out short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIM AULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
EVERY WOMAN
lip
;X'
mmr'
v-
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINCB
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
rcsta.l Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Ilaa-lth, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
RICOROs
■ e only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEEIL.TY,
VARICOCELE, etc.
7) r Ricord’s Essence of Life affords relief and permanently
mes all who suffer from wasting and withering of the
nervous tissues; restores Energy, Strength and
Vitality to the most weak and shattered constitutions
im matter from what cause) and regenerates all the
important elements of the human frame.
Trice 125., or four quantities in one, 36a Freight extra,
is. and Is. 6d. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents Jor Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; iV.S.lP.— Faulding & Co., 16 O’Ccnnell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
DEAF
03333
The New PaU.x
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. N AST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,


iintssn
Beware of
Cheap
Grain Spirits
Flavored
and
Colored
to
Imitate
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstre dt Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. <fe Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
PqiNTS OF .MUCH IWPORTAN^CE.
Sllenbiirgs Foods.
The great success attending the use of the “Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure
due to the two following important facts
(l) Their limllarity in composition to human milk ; the constituents being in (2) The readiness with which they can oe digested and assimilated by
t k e s ame relative proportions. the infant,both foods being as easy of assimilation as maternal milk.
Mixed with water according to the directions a humanized milk is provided. and much more so than ordinary modified or diluted cow’s milk.
The “ Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates. They are in the
form of powder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on “INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pages) free,
from 495 , Boarke Street, Melbourne.
Allen & Hanburys, Ltd., *Phugd (Bourt, Lombard St., London.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2. f
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
X
From six months and upwards.
Ask John
To read the following Excellent Endorsements of Ruberoid Roofing given by Honest and
Satisfied Users of the Genu'ne Article.
fj A. F 0 A " i ‘
¥- | if
i»
S£ 5* s^*l2*
Uafr *0 |-*J
'iftezni* s
/JL
j&M.
£ M % h if
0 JS. X jf~
"X H-fW
i
ft All
■3U
*•]
i*
lljfll!
litltl
vS«-» CJ
tf J 4
*•]
&L
/£
a
Full Particulars from
Fremantle, W.A.
J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
A. W. Sandford & Co,
Melbourne, Vic.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Ltd.
Launceston, Tas.
Hedley Button.
Wellington, N.Z.
James W. Jack.
E. RICH & CO., Limited,
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission mi m Newspaper.
Voi„ 24.—N0. 1213.
SATURDAY, MAY 16, 1903.
PRiea to.
THE SULTAN’S REVENGE
P. ME BY E.[?]
iF2?H, Thursday.—lt is alleged that when a Customs official saw the Onhir’s
I assenger-hst he told the steward that the Sultan of Johore would not be permitted
.to land The captain told the Sultan, who replied, “Very well, I won t W
more horses ,n the beastly country!” Tl/captain advised his X
Highness to go ashore, and he (the captain) would take the blame.
Ihe embargo was soon withdrawn, and the Sultan then landed and
to Perth. ’
of arrai of I • The ultan ,s a young man (about 2.9 years
in gold ** r * ChJy 86 ‘ with di * monds
AT THE RECEPTION AFTER THE
PERFORMANCE.
Dwtoguished PtAKisr: “And how did you like my
rendering of .Beethoven’s Sonata in E Flat Major V’
Gushing Amateur : “Well, I never heard it attempted
by anyone but myself before, and really you played
tt bo well that I hardly recognised it.’*
Oh ! the Sultan of Johore
Was about to step ashore,
mi!! g f h P" C . ed , d ‘ amondl '• ted smile his dusky features wore
(Ujs teeth had been attended to by dentists in Johore ').
“ There’s a duty 'ere on ore,
Likewise dimints ; an’, wot’s more,
I must treat you as an alien in the raeanin’ of the Law r ’
baid the Custom-’us official to the Sultan of Johore.
Then an English oath he swore,
Did the Sultan of Johore.
“ IVe some beastly bosses here—l won't buv anv
more , J J
I’ll put my teeth in bond, I will
And here he slammed the door,
Did the Sultan of Johore ;
Yes, he slammed his cabin door,
Which so impressed the skipper that he iet him -o ashore
,f ° p> * Understudy went to see a p ; ftv
Sht He rT a C ° f Pleasure ’‘ other
night. He thinks some Women hav, »
queer idea of Pleasure
. L*.
uH?
P '^““sK
/ > (*»**-■
«hJ t , dTA I”tttV„»XIS^T„u S S"
A LOOK ROUND.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the AnstraliansA*
Printed and Published -by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only) „
Per Annum ... ... ••• r<? n
Half-yearly ... v n "
Quarterly
NOT ICS.
Bn sending direct to The Bulletin Ofice Twenty-
Six'Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Commuiucations
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice. '
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expiessly
reserved by the publishers. ..
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the •• Correspondence” column attri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of p ?h*e<X;>
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short lales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or. say, SOOO words are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be i eg anted as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
'To Amateurs in. Itlacle and. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufiicient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction or
am/ interesting photograph illustrative of a, current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted f ol '/ I ™* reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-dravm—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ;Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.- Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B C
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai .—Brewer and Co.
7?ie^^xxlletx/}i.
SATURDAY, MAY 16, 1903.
The Tight for Union.
Benttsm has had its natural, its inevitable
result in Victoria. The State which made
dishonesty in its relations with its employees
a principle, and brutal bluster a settled method,
is punished now by the paralysis of its railway
service. The loss is the community's, and the
blame is largely the community’s, for it was the
community that deliberately placed Irvine and
Bent in power, and though the community gave
to those men no warrant whatever to pursue the
policy they have done in railway matters, and
neither Bent nor Irvine dared even to hint at
that policy when asking the public for its
suffrages, still a State which puts a person
like Bent in a position of trust and responsibility
must be held responsible for the consequences.
That there will be many innocent sufferers is a
fact for which regret must be felt, though
Bent and Irvine, if their actions count for
anything, feel none. That regret may sug-
gest to some that it is a pity the issue
should have been put to the stern decision of
industrial war, that a little more patience under
insult and ignominy was to be expected from the
railway men, in the hope that time would bring
redress of their wrongs. But such a thought will
not exist long in the mind of any man possessing
the instinct of freedom. There are occasions
which demand that all thoughts of expediency, all
calculations of gain and loss, shall be cast aside,
and a stand made at any price for principle.
When what is sacred in human thought—and
there is nothing more sacred than the
instinct of liberty—is attacked, then revolt
becomes a duty. {And I thought that your
decrees were not so strong as to overstep the
established, unwritten laws of Heaven ” was the
unanswerable argument of Antigone, charged
with breaking a human edict because it conflicted
with the higher authority of fraternal duty. With
a people or a class oppressed, called upon to
surrender liberty, which is the essential of self-
respecting life, all arguments as to the conse-
quences of revolt—the sufferings entailed, the
harm to the guiltless, the loss to the weak and the
helpless—shrivel away. A people must fight if
threatened by an invader, even though children
will starve, and wives perish, and innocent blood
flow. A class must revolt if threatened with
deprivation of its liberty, however great the loss
and the suffering. Revolt brings huge evils in its
train. But submission brings worse. When the
point is reached at which tolerance is cowardice
and patience servility, protest is the duty of free
men.
• • * •
That point was reached in Victoria before the
railway employees took the desperate step of
going on strike, thus cutting one of the great
arteries of the State. If it had not been, a strike
would have been a wicked and malignant act,
fairly comparable for atrociousness with the pre-
ceding actions of the Irvine Government, But
it is not possible, after a just examination
of the facts, to avoid the conclusion that the
Bent - Irvine Government was resolved on
forcing a strike, and that the men gave in to
the Government’s wish for a strike only when to
refuse longer to do so was to sacrifice all self-
respect. The men, it should be noted, struck on
no sordid or paltry grievance. When the Govern-
ment reduced their wage-fund to the extent or
stopping all the legally-due increments, they sub-
mitted. When practically robbed of their fran-
chise the men submitted, allowing the specious
fictions advanced in support of that outrage on
manhood suffrage to pass. When the Bent-
levxne Government contrived the mean swindle
of depriving the railway workers of one day’s pay
per week, whilst exacting from them practically
the same amount of work —in some cases a larger
amount —they submitted. It was only when their
tyrannical masters proceeded to outrage, wantonly
and purposelessly, their natural liberties and their
manhood, that the men at last took action. The
demand that they should formally separate them-
selves from the fraternity of Labor, to which they
had been long linked, was from every point of
view, a causeless degradation. It saved no money,
it assisted no scheme of discipline. Its object was
humiliation, and humiliation only. The demand
was the invention of a petty, malignant, surly
tyrant and persecutor. The men were asked to
trample upon what they considered dear, and spit
at what they held in respect. _ To demand of a
free man that he shall publicly repudiate a
religious belief which he has cherished is
never made except by a mean and paltry
tyrant, for such a repudiation can have no
real effect on his views, and can only be de-
manded as a means of degrading and mortifying
him. Similarly, the demand that the railway
workers in Victoria should withdraw the affili-
ation of their unions with the Trades Hall could
have been made with no practical or seemly pur-
pose. Such affiliation was but the external symbol
of a belief in the fraternity of Labor; to cast it
off would not have affected the belief. If that
fraternal feeling exposed the railways to the
danger of their employees being drawn into a
strike without having a grievance of their own and
merely out of sympathy with some other union, it
was a matter of absolutely no importance whether
the men affiliated with the Trades Hall or
not. The affiliation could not force or induce
them to go out on strike without their
full consent ; without the affiliation they
could, if they chose, enter just as easily
upon a sympathetic strike. The railway men
saw clearly that the Bent-Irvine purpose was to
outrage their sentiments, to pillory them as poor-
spirited slavish creatures, and to publicly trample
upon their liberties; and they objected—as Aus-
tralian miners objected at Eureka, as Australian
citizens objected at Circular Quay to the further
transportation of convicts. History, when all
the lies of the daily press have faded away, will
recognise the justice of the objection, and will
enthrone it with other historic revolts as a stand
in defence of that passion for liberty, which is
the dearest of human possessions.
• • * *
It is vitally necessary to keep this aspect of
the question before the mind when considering
the validity of the strike. Had the issue been
merely one of expediency, or of wages, or hours,
or anything else on which compromise or sur-
render, or evasion was possible, there were other
ways out of the situation. The men might, if
the issue had been any other than one of sacred
principle, have feigned to withdraw from the
Trades Hall, whilst preserving a secret and
conspirant connection, just as the weakling in
religion might, during a time of persecution,
abjure in public the faith which he confessed
to in private. But any such paltry subterfuge
would have been unworthy of the occasion. A
defiant deed was demanded. There are certain
things which a man must fight for if he.be
a man, and chief of those things, to the working
classes, is trades-unionism. To trades-unionism the
worker owes his political and economic liberty.
It has raised him from serfdom and
restored to him his wife and children from the
coal-pit and the mill. It has given to him self-
respect, and brought the idea of mutual brother-
hood to lighten his toil. It is a religion, noble in
sentiment and effective in practice. And separa-
tion from the Trades Hall, for no sane motive, but
merely at the bullying behest of the brutal Bent,
would have been an abjuration of trades-unionism
by the Victorian railway men under the lash of a
persecutor.
* m * * *
It has been represented that the affiliation
was so recent that it was only undertaken as a
protection against Bentism. Even so it would
not affect the issue. But it is not so—
the railway men were affiliated 16 years ago.
It has been represented that affiliation puts
the railway unions at the behest of the Trades
Hall to be called out on strike, willy-nilly, at any
time. That is a lie. The Trades Hall could not
call the railway, or any other, unions out without
their full consent, and during the great maritime
strike, when organised Labor was in a ferment all
over the continent, and Gillies, Bruce Smith
and M'Millan were using the railways to convey
armed soldiers and Gatling guns to overawe and
coerce striking workers, there was no call-out of
the railway employees. When the noisome pur-
pose of the Victorian Government to force on
a railway strike was made indecently
apparent by the brutal bullyragging of
the unspeakable Bent, and Irvine came for-
ward to mask the design under a cover of
polite words, he refused to discuss with the rail-
way workers these points. A “conference” sug-
gestion which he made was purely farcical. The
men were to absolutely yield the one point at issue
before conferring; he would listen to no state-
ments in disproof of the lying assertions that the
Trades Hall Council was a “political” body,
and that association with it involved the
railway men in the liability to be called out
at any time. The Victorian railway strike
is not therefore a protest against wage-
reductions and wage-robberies. It hinges not
on a question of industrialism but on a ques-
tion of liberty. It represents the only possible
protest that free men could make against a need-
less humiliation, a wanton interference with their
freedom, an unreasoning outrage on what the
human mind holds most dear. With full considera-
tion, therefore, of the losses, public and private,
which will flow from it, and of the possibility of
failure, it is impossible to regret that it has taken
place, for if it had not, the railway men would have
shown that they had no manly dignity, and that
the sentiment of liberty had gone out of Victoria.
• • »
The Victorian railway strike was necessary,
because of the Government’s policy of Bentism.
But it is not necessary that it, or its cause, should
be allowed to exist a single day longer than would
suffice for the summoning of the Federal Parlia-
ment. The paralysis of the Victorian railway sys-
tem is not merely a State but a Federal matter ;
one part of the Commonwealth cannot be bled
white without injury to all other parts. Bentism,
too, is not merely a State but a Federal matter. If
a Bent or an Irvine can stir up strife in one State
to the point of stopping a whole railway system,
by attempting to inflict on a body of workers a
degradation which, in N.S.W. under the Arbitra-
tion Act, is made a criminal offence, and can thus
stop the Federal mails, interfere seriously with
inter-State trade, inflict grave loss on the whole
of Australia, and bring the shadow of disaster over
the whole of the continent, Federation is a failure.
The supreme power in Australia cannot ignore
the present situation. Last session an Industna
Arbitration AcS'was contemplated by the Federal
Parliament; only the squalid greed of the im-
porters’ party, which stretched the tight tor
shoddy over many months, blocked the measure.
Had it been passed, there is no doubt but that
it would follow the lines of the N.S.W. Act
and in that case it would have treated as a
criminal offence the demand of Irvine and Lent
that the Victorian railway men should abandon
their rights as unionists. Now that a crisis un-
precedented in Australian history has come, the
Australian Parliament should at once meet
and establish a court of arbitration. -foe
outrage which—there is good cause to believe
—the Bknt-Irvine Cabinet contemplated, ot
asking the Victorian Parliament to pass a retro-
spective Act making the action of the railway men
illegal need not be imitated. It wou.d be
beneath the dignity of an Australian Parliament
to stretch back its arm to seize and punish the
miserable Bent-Irvine Government for its wanton
outrage; but a tribunal for the immediate
settlement of the difficulty should be established,
and at the same time precaution taken
that such conditions as caused the strike shall
never arise again.
*** * .
The actual momentary crisis of the strike could
probably be settled in a day by Premier Barton.
If he were to offer to-day to establish a fair
judicial tribunal, by Executive authority, and
insist on both parties submitting to its arbitra-
tion, threatening otherwise to force them to do
so by an Act of Parliament, that would be almost
certainly efficacious.
• * • *
The Federal Government is now faced by
its first great difficulty. Hitherto it has shown
no lack of courage in carrying out its man-
date from the people to substitute _ -Aus-
tralian authority for inter-State jealousy in all
national matters; let no hesitation be shown
now. The occasion is momentous ; a State is
threatened with ruin, and Federal authority is
seriously challenged by the action of a State
Government in taking a step, illegal and criminal
north and west of its borders, and which the
Federal Parliament had announced its intention
of making illegal and criminal within the confines
of the Commonwealth. Whatever its motive
purposeless, mad malevolence, or a plot to
represent State ownership of the railways as
impossible—the Bent-Irvine Government has
deliberately chosen a time to force on a strike
when the Federal power was, in a sense, slumber-
ing—Parliament out of session and the Industrial
Arbitration Act not on the statute book. The
Commonwealth cannot tamely submit to that out-
rage on its authority and still maintain its dignity.
At present its mails are held up and its. trade dis-
located. Should any disorder arise its troops
must be called out for the work of suppression.
Without firm and prompt action the Australian
Government will be in the position, perhaps, of
having to act the policeman to stop disorder con-
sequent on wrongful actions which it has
neglected its duty in permitting. Within a month
the Federal High Court and a Federal Arbitration
Court should be in existence; within a week
the Victorian railway men should be back at their
posts by order of the Federal authority, pending a
just settlement of all matters at issue between
them and Bent. A great opportunity of estab-
lishing the dignity, the authority, the power of
the Commonwealth is at Premier Barton s
hand. Seizing it, he will stamp Australian
unity with the mint-mark of living power;
neglecting it, he must lower the position of the
Commonwealth, showing its legislature, not as
a supreme Parliament strong to preserve
Australia from the consequences of the wicked-
ness and folly of any set of men, however
influential —but as a mere separate Parliament,
which any Bent may flout. The Victorian
railway strike had to be entered upon, for the
principle of human liberty was at stake. It
must now be ended, for the principle of Fed-
eralism is at stake.
The Poisoned News Supply.
To civilised man a newspaper is as much a neces-
sity as bread. His mind craves for a knowledge
of passing events as his body craves for food. It
is, therefore, of as high importance to the com-
munity that the supply of news should be free
from adulteration and infection as the supply of
bread and of meat. But, while steps to protect
the public from poisoned meat and unwholesome
bread are feasible, and are put into effect with
great benefit, protection against false news,
against poisoned mind-food, seems to be not
yet thought of. The newspaper may circu-
late vicious lies, may partly falsify or
wholly suppress the truth and thereby cause
incalculable damage to the community, but at
present there is no remedy and no punishment.
The very curious conditions under which news-
paper enterprise has grown up are largely respon-
sible for the existing evil. Originally newspapers
were not the vital necessity that they are now,
and the earliest journals were more devoted to
discussion of problems of politics and ethics, to
literary and philosophical -disquisitions, than to
the actual supply of news. When a daily news
service became a necessity of civilisation, the old
journals, with their traditions of pamphlet-
eeering, began to supply the need, and thus
there grew up, what is really an anomalous
institution —a journal which supplies news, which
is a necessity, and a certain amount of polemical
matter, which is a survival of the days when the
press was solely an institution for debating and
arguing. Of course this polemical matter, though
not necessary, is a highly desirable product—of
great advantage sometimes in educating public
opinion by giving wide dissemination to thought.
But it is unfortunate that the custom should have
grown up of combining in one newspaper what is
polemical and what is merely informing. A
better system, in the abstract, would be the
publication of newspapers which are merely state-
ments of facts and the separate publication, daily,
weekly or monthly of papers which discuss facts
and voice opinions. Then the news supply, which is
a necessity, could be kept pure and undefiled, and
the publication of opinions, which is a luxury,
would be still unfettered.
• * • *
The almost inevitable result, in a human and
fallible community, of the publication by the same
journal of news and arguments, is that the news
is tinged to a certain extent to suit the argu-
ments. At first that result did not show ; news-
paper proprietors professed (and practised as well
as they could) a policy of keeping the news
department free from bias—giving the facts
honestly in the news column, however much they
twisted them in the comment column. But
very soon a system of sympathising the news
with the comment crept in, and it would be
very difficult to-day to mention any one daily
pa per which gives the news with absolute honest,
and fullness, and with no sort of bias I n 4 y
tralia the process has been carried to a noint \
which unconscious bias is left behind and shlT
less, naked lying is freely adopted. All tl
great daily ” papers—combined as thev are e
Trust to limit the cost of production and to it?
tiuence Governments for concessions—whilst th
may differ in minor details, agree absolutely in
modelling their news columns to suit the busing
interests whose advertising constitutes their <S
support Newspaper lying and suppression
carried to the degree of a fine art It !
not one capital only that is affected-’ all th?
metropolitan centres have their news sudul
poisoned; and where all agree to deceive there l
no hope of correcting one by comparison with
another. It would be perhaps possible for an
intelligent man who read all the daily papers of
London, and compared their various accounts to
come to some fairly accurate knowledge of naasi™
events That is not possible in any AuS
capital. In regard to N.S.W. matters, the two
morning papers are practically one as regards
policy and news. They have the same cable
service for all news outside of Australia and thev
have a very thorough understanding-conscious
or unconscious—as to the tinging of local news to
please the importing and shop-keeping interests
One has more scruple, the other less shame • that
is merely a degree of difference, not a difference
And they supply the news of this State not only
to the State but to all Australasia; from their
offices and from their columns onlv does news
flow, and the polluted stream thus spreads from a
State to overflow a continent.
* • » »
Customs Minister Kingston, at his Sydney
meeting last week, took occasion to expose some
newspaper lies; he showed that one newspaper
had described his “cool reception ” at Newcastle
though he had had a welcome from 8000 voters ■
that it had stated that only two of the ships in
the harbor had been decorated in his honor
though 47 had been—and so on. Those were
somewhat more glaring instances than usual
of a policy and a purpose which is persis-
tently pursued. The present Australian Govern-
ment can get no fair play in the news
columns of the daily press, because it refused to
continue the subsidies given by the State Govern-
ment to the newspapers, and because, guarding
the interests of the community, it does not strain
nor wink at the law in the interests of the drapery
and other importing concerns. The cause of
Australian Nationalism can get no fair play in the
news columns of the daily papers because their
proprietors are suppliants for Imperial favors, or
the friends of such suppliants. The rights of
organised Labor can get no fair play in the daily
papers because those rights infringe on the class
privileges of shoddy capitalism, (in regard to the
Victorian railway crisis, the public mind has been
poisoned with the most malignant lies as regards
the actions and purposes and claims of the men.)
This poisoning—repeated daily—of the community
with false news has become a great public danger;
it threatens to destroy civic freedom and to en-
slave the people to a newspaper bureaucracy. As
mischievous really as a daily supply of tuberculous
milk or of infected bread, the poisonous stream of
misinformation calls for some similar measures of
suppression. The difficulties in the way of effec-
tive precaution are very great, but not insuper-
able. One day the common-sense of the com-
munity may be awakened to the extent of putting
in the dock—with the Customs swindler-the
newspaper proprietor who deliberately circulates
falsehoods.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Victorian Capitalist, and Bent.
When the capitalists of Victoria recover their
senses and begin to take a fair and reasonable
view of the situation —if they have any fairness,
or any reason, or any capacity for judging the
position apart from the weary bunkum of the
Argus —their opinion of Thomas Bent should be
a whole essay of vituperation. Thomas Bent is
the clumsy, meddlesome, bounding person who is
always touching the paint to see if it is ary, and
it never is dry when Bent touches it. The situa-
tion last time he touched the paint was this.
Some of the railway unions have been affiliated
with the Trades Hall (which is a non-political
body, despite all lies to the contrary, t e
Political Labor Council being the''political
body) for a dozen years or more. Nothing
had happened through the connection-neither
strike, riot, revolution, demand for extra wages
nor anything else. All the dreadful results a
Bent and Irvine said must happen by reason o
affiliation of the railway unions with the iraaes
Hall have been proved, by the experience of yea*
to be things that don’t happen at all. BMT ana
Irvine declared war by insisting that an arr g
ment which has lasted peaceably for a dozen yem
must be upset; and by declaring an act
is not prohibited by any law to be llleg •
men announced that if a }^ w y' as^a^® llp „„i the
their connection with the Trades Hall 1 g
connection would be severed ; the arrogan ,
less and brutal Bent-Irvine gang insisted, on
making the law themselves, and £ ave ,’\. t k e
the union leaders would be removed 4rom the
service for doing a perfectly legal act. A
where does Capital come in ? Ihe collap n , ate
railway service, if it continues for even
period, will bring disaster on the revenue, it wiu
stoptrade; itwillcause business to g 0 f
laide and Sydney; it will lead to a • nC mere
perishable products going bad and becomi g m
fertiliser ; itwill shut up factories for wan‘of
material; and it will make a grievous dump »
banking profits. All these things ar
because Bent and Irvine, but mostly
choose to disregard the law, and wan
howling sultans who make new s j g an
moment by a mere wave of the P e "; • 0 f a
awful price to pay for the ” lsan - R ,, NT
wholly illegal political bounder. g e poses
by his own accounts, is not a capit •
as a man who is practically broke b«*»
of the boom, and who expects to vem
way. In that case he can sh businesses,
money of capitalists, and ' v F e °k ', • j nte rests
and break their banks, and knock _ a ma n
endways with cheerful impunity. >} _, >• offn
“with a stake in the country. be set
account of himself is correct, B . w j ess and
down as a violent, ill-tempered, . to
bullying character who has hV l ® back b on e at
lose, and who advertises his all | • 1 me n of
other people's cost. Why the on which
Melbourne came to trust public matte , dd 0 n
so vast a proportion of their wealth
a frantic carpet-bag politician, n ~ through
ever 1 ikely to know. They never lost Tr!ides
the railway men being affiliated • t 0 be
Hall; they won’t gain 2d. by them ceas ng
affiliated. If Bent wins he wi get tn
while they pay the bill. E )’ en Lainly wasn’t,
been necessary,. winch it ce l cap tain
the idea of going into it unde


like Bent is supremely idiotic. Bent, when
there was no strike on, and no difficulty to
face, managed in a few months to reduce the Vic.
railways to such chaos that there was hardly a
train in the State that wasn’t from half-an-hour to
a day and a-half late ; and a train seldom did 150
nules without having to telegraph for two fresh
engines to replace those that were broken down ;
and the firewood business practically shut up for
want of trucks ; and it often took 14 days to shift
a truck of perishable goods 100 miles, and then
nobody covered them from the rain with a tar-
paulin because there wasn’t any. To trust an
incredible muddler like Bent, who apparently
isn’t qualified to guide a wheelbarrow, with the
management of the railways under strike con-
ditions is like sending a navy to sea in war-time
with a decayed rabbiter in charge, and hoping for
success. And all the time the irresponsible Bent
is throwing the good money of large, pious,
respectable, bell-toppered Melbourne capitalists
to the four winds for his own glory—and appar-
ently they can’t see the point.
In Praise of Minister Owe’Suilivan.
N.S.W.’s Owe’Sullivan made amends for a good
many follies by his courageous, manly and
straightforward declaration of sympathy for the
Victorian railway unionists. Of course the inci-
dent was seized upon by the Shoddy press as a
subject for denunciation, and the large, damp
paw of hypocrisy was held aloft in affected horror.
The Sydney Telegraph, in particular, had glar-
ing headlines about “O’Sullivan’s Astounding
Speech,’’ and moaned thus :
As the dethronement of the Ministry is regarded as an
extremely probable contingency when Parliament meets,
the idea is that Mr. 0 Sullivan aspires to lead Laborites
into Opposition when he leaves office, and thus hold the
Premiership in reversion. In the light of this explana-
tion, his attitude of hostility to the Government of Vic-
toria, and his carelessness of the responsibilities of a
Minister of the Crown, might be comprehensible, if cen-
surable ; but certainly no act of this much-discussed
Minister has been so roundly condemned by politicians
and citizens generally as this latest escapade.
All which labored and bogus explanation is quite
unnecessary, and is merely more lying and hypo-
crisy. When the political row in Victoria was
between Protection and Foreign-trade, “ the
responsibilities of a Minister of the Crown”
never prevented Reid and the two Smiths
(Bruce and Pumpkin) from denouncing the
Victorian Government and its policy with all
the fury they possessed. Now that the row
is between Unionism and Bent, O’Sullivan
has just the same right to speak his mind, even if
the Telegraph, which cordially approved when
the N.S.W. importing gang put its meddlesome
paw into Victorian politics, disapproves to-day.
And, curiously enough, a day or two after the
above tale appeared, the same Telegraph was
savagely denouncing Premier See for not commit-
ting himself on the Victorian strike subject—for
not committing himself on the side of Bent. As
for the “explanation ” offered to account for the
Owe’Sulltvan’s attitude, it might as reasonably
be explained that the Telegraph’s editor took up
his attitude on the Foreign-trade question in the
hope that it might lead to him getting a steady
job as a corporation pick-and-shovel man. The
leadership of the N.S.W. Labor party is not a
billet, as the party is at present constituted, which
opens the way to power; in fact, it practically
puts its holder out of sight of office. And Owe’-
Sullivan, the most restless builder of railways
and bridges in Australasia, isn t the man to
petrify in a job like that.
4
Spruce Myth’s Moral Triends.
When Sydney Morning Herald, the prim and
proper old lady of Hunter-street, does make a
slip it is always a regular “howler.” No daily
paper in Australia is more carefully “ read ’’ in
proof, no paper is more desirous of avoiding any
luridness in its columns; and yet few papers have
published so many hair raising items. This crept
into the Herald on Friday last about Mr. Spruce
Myth’s moral friends the Japanese (whose immi-
gration to Australia Mr. Myth would encourage
for the good of Australia) :
SENSATION AT A WOMEN’S MEETING.
Brisbane, Thursday.—A sensation was caused at Char-
ters Towers at a meeting of the Women’s Equal Franchise
League to-night. At the last meeting a paper was read
on certain Japanese houses in Charters Towers. This
was discussed to-night. Mrs. Ratting stated that she
had donned a man’s hat and macintosh, visited these
places at night, and talked through windows to Japanese
women, who could not speak English, and could only say
“Give me five bob.” This remark was received with
gasps of horror by 70 ladies present, and with laughter by
about 100 men who congregated on the verandah around
the windows of the Town Hall looking in. Mrs. Ratting
was proceeding with further experiences when the lady
president interposed.
Mrs. Katting —man’s attire —Japanese geishas—
“gimme fi’ bob” —gasps of horror from 70 ladies
—laughter from 100 men ; and then the Herald
suddenly remembered, and over “ further experi-
ences ” a veil is thrown. But what a pity it is that
whenever the Japs.—whose “virtues,” according
to Spruce Myth, are the sole reason why the
White Australia party wants to keep them out
turn up even in the Tory and pro-Jap. press of
Australia, it should either be because Mr. Chrys-
anthemum has murdered somebody, or because
Miss Chrysanthemum, the boss harlot of the
globe, has been holding out her brown hand more
humorously than usual for the wages of sin.
♦
Kingston to the People of Sydney.
Australian Minister Kingston got to the minds
of the.citizens of Sydney last week as he is, not as
a prejudiced Freetrade press represents him to
be, and had a most enthusiastic reception and a
flattering endorsement of his policy. The night
was marked by a tempest of rain, which made it
a matter of some courage to venture out;
nevertheless, the Town Hall was packed,
and with the exception of two or three scores of
dissentients, the thousands present cordially
acclaimed the strong, straight man of Australian
politics. It was a tribute to courage and honesty
m politics, for Kingston showed no oratorical
graces. His speech—probably because of his ill-
ness and his recent over-hard work—was disap-
pointing when compared with other utterances on
lesser occasions, and was not in itself inspiring
except in brief flashes. But the palpable courage
of the man aroused enthusiasm. He took no yes-
no stand on any point, trimmed in no particular,
hesitated in nothing between honesty and expedi-
ency. He boldly arraigned the Foreign-trade
daily newspapers as liars; proved them so;
asserted firmly his Protectionist and nationalist
views; and left no doubt in anybody’s mind
that, no matter what the abuse and misrep-
resentation he earns thereby, he is resolute
to maintain an honest administration of the Cus-
toms Department. On all those points on which,
according to the Sydney daily papers, Kingston
is at utter variance with the sentiment of the
N. S. W. metropolis, he declared himself
without qualification and without trim-
ming;. and on each he was loudly cheered.
His indictment of the Sydney morning
papers was acclaimed, his declaration of
Protectionist faith was triumphantly endorsed,
and his announced resolution to continue to
administer his department without fear of the
rich importers’ frown was greeted with enthusias-
tic approval. It is evident that Kingston has
done very much personally to popularise the Pro-
tectionist cause in Sydney—the hotbed of the im-
porting disease—and also that the obvious good
effects of the tariff, weak as it is, are beginning to
make themselves felt in New South YVales.
The Victorian Civil Servants’ Member
Many Victorian railway men and other civil ser-
vants, it is alleged, are resolved, as a protest
against the Bent-Irvine Government’s “separate
representation” swindle, not to record any vote
at all at the State elections. There are also ridi-
culously humorous stories in circulation about
proposals to elect a Hindu and a Chinaman, and
about other weird devices for bringing “separate
representation” into contempt, but these are
mere crude comedy—the proposal to abstain from
voting is, in some quarters, real enough. No
doubt this idea might amount to something as a
protest, but all the same it will be a piece of
grievous ill-luck if any such tactics are adopted.
The idea should be rather to make the post
of civil service representative the blue ribbon
of Parliamentary life. If necessary, the civil
servants should subscribe enough money to make
the salary of each of their members equal to
that of a Cabinet Minister, and, having got the
right men, they should do all they can to assure
them that their positions will be permanent. And
they want, not Labor men in the narrow sense of
the term, but men who are good Democrats and
who are also large enough to reach out for
Cabinet rank—for the Premiership indeed. Such
a man as Isaacs (if he could be induced to step
down from the House of Reps, and qualify) would
be an admirable representative ; and if two others
of anything approaching his size could be found
the public service would present a formidable
front in the Legislature. It should strive at any
cost to put a specially good man into the House of
Landlords, where he would shine out conspicuously
as against the doddering imbecility of his fellow
members, and—if money can buy the right man
—he should be such a one that a Liberal Govern-
ment, when Bent is politically dead, can hardly
avoid, solely by reason of his merits, appoint-
ing him its Council representative. And in the
Assembly the service should try to have at least
one representative who has a fairly possible lien
on the Premiership. Then, having selected its
men, it should give them such a vote that they
can tell the House that they speak for the largest
constituency in Victoria as well as the widest, and
can bid a small fat man like Bent, who represents
a comparative handful out Brighton way, to take
a back seat and keep quiet till his intellectual and
political superior has done speaking. The separate
representation idea was intended to practically
disfranchise a large class of the community, but it
could be so worked, with proper management and
organisation, as to make Bent and Irvine curse
the day when the idea was invented.
♦
The Vic. Police Funds Grab.
jT looks as though the Victorian police, who pur-
sue the Cabbage-Garden pickpocket, have them-
selves been the victims of a long series of em-
bezzlements and purse-trick frauds. It is an old
story and runs back a long way. In the beginning
2 per cent, was deducted from the policeman’s
pay to establish a superannuation and reward
fund. Naturally the money came in faster than
it went out, for the force then consisted of young
men almost exclusively, and the limit of retire-
ment was for most of them still a long way off.
Some idiot presently thought it was a pity that
they should wait till they were old men to get
their old-age pay; and the foolish idea was popular
enough to get itself adopted. A system of “good
conduct ” rewards was therefore established in
order to empty the till with all possible speed—if
it was a plain drunk, the constable seems to have
drawn 6d. for it; if it was a drunk with frills who
tore his uniform he presumably drew 9d. The
plan worked too well; the speed with which the
till was being emptied created alarm, and so that
stupid steal of insurance money was stopped.
The only redeeming feature of this particular
•steal was that some of the contributors to the
fund themselves divided the plunder. The next
embezzlement apparently took place between
1860 and 1864. In 1860 the fund was in credit
£60,658 ; by 1864 it was down to £45,195, although
the expenditure had never reached the income,
and most times was only about a third as much.
This seems to have been plain Government thiev-
ing. The constable of the period didn’t have a
vote, but even then had developed a large foot,
and he kicked. In reply, Parliament admitted
that he had been badly treated, so it gave him a
consolidating statute—it didn’t order that the
money should be put back in the till. Actual
public robbery of the fund seems, however, to
have been stopped for a while, and that was some-
thing. The State, nevertheless, still continued to
“ borrow ” the funds, and went on forgetting to
pay any interest for the money (there was only
one year in which a Treasurer had a spasm of
conscience and paid something in the way of
interest); but when, during the past few years,
things began to get bad in Victoria, it began
playing up with the principal again. There
were .£70,000 of debentures which had been the
backbone of the fund for years. In 1899 the
Treasurer got away with £20,000 of them ; next
year another £20,000 went; in 1901 still another
£20,000; and last year a desperate Treasurer,
looking in the till and finding .£lO,OOO still left,
promptly sold them too ! In return, the Govern-
ment professes to put in its I O U, undertaking
to pay police pensions out of revenue to make up
for the stealing of the bobby’s own pension fund.
But, as a matter of fact, Icicle Irvine isn’t pre-
pared to do anything of the kind. The police
paid into this fund over £120,000 in order to
permit of their retirement at 55 (afterwards
the limit was jumped up to 60) ; what the
Icicle proposes is compensation on retirement at
65. So the State first of all diddled the fund out
of about £50,000 of interest, then embezzled some
of the principal, and afterwards, having “con-
verted ” the balance and left the insurers helpless,
proceeds to rob each man of five years’ super-
annuation pay. Even Bent hasn’t yet struck the
idea of throwing off the train at Gastlemaine the
man who has paid his fare to Bendigo ; but the
Icicle Govt, seems capable of doing as much as
that.
♦
Kingston and the N.T. Chinaman.
The following item is quoted verbatim from a
Sydney Ereetrade paper :
At the annual banquet of the Brisbane Chamber of
Commerce on Tuesday, Mr. John Arthur, in proposing
the toast of “ Parliament,” referred to Mr. Kingston and
the colored labor question. He said that Messrs. Millar
Bros, had a contract for the railway in the Northern
Territory of South Australia, and under alternative
tenders got £BO,OOO extra if they did it by' white
labor. After six months’ trial they had to give it up and
bring down Chinese. Mr. Kingston was the Premier of
South Australia, and the tropical portion of that State
contained 4000 Chinese and 400 whites. With such facts
before them he asked if Mr. Kingston was qualified to tell
them the methods to be adopted in regard to practical
legislation.
The Bulletin doesn’t know John Arthur and,
on the whole, it isn’t sorry ; if the above is a true
report, he doesn’t look a desirable acquaintance.
His statement, as reported above, certainly
doesn’t say that Kingston was Premier of
South Australia when the famous Chinese
railway contract was made in the Territory, or
that he was in any way responsible for that con-
tract, but it is difficult to see why Kingston’s
name is dragged in so needlessly unless to
leave that erroneous impression on the minds
of hasty readers. The Northern Territory
railway, from Palmerston to Pine Creek,
was certainly built with Chinese labor. It
is not true that it was so built because white men
couldn’t do the work in the Far North climate ;
from motives of disastrous economy Chinese labor
was adopted from the outset. And from that time
dates the ruin of the Territory. It ceased to be a
white man’s country ; the imported Chow settled
down in the land and a blight came upon it; white
immigration ceased ; the new railway never paid
expenses ; and the stupendous annual deficit of
the Chow-ridden, Chow-cursed, Chow-damned
Territory has been a burden on S. A. eversince. It
was in 1889 that the Northern Territory railway
was finished, and four years later, in 1893, Kingston
first became Premier of S. A. And as Premier of the
Territory, as well as of S.A., he had a better
opportunity than most men to size up the full
dimensions of the Asiatic curse, and he shaped his
white Australia policy accordingly. It is now up
to Mr. John Arthur, of Brisbane, and the Cham-
ber of Commerce which he represents, to explain
these things and remove all misapprehension. If
it was intended to be conveyed that Kingston
was in any way responsible for the Chinese curse
which has fallen on the Territory, then the
intention was to convey a slander and a
delusion. If there was no such intention, then
there remains a good opportunity for the im-
porters of Brisbane to mention publicly that they
are fair and honorable white men, who had no
desire whatever to deceive.
♦
The Broken Roof.
A GOOD part of the chairman’s speecn. at the
annual meeting of the Brisbane Chamber of Com-
merce consisted of a vigorous curse of Government
control of railways. Said Carter, M.L.C., the
chairman :
Lease the railways. In private hands, the lines could
be made to pay better than they were now paying, and
at any rate the loss would not fall on the State.
In reply to which foolish advice a lot of things
could be said, but two will do :
(1) In private hands, the lines might perhaps be made
to pay better, simply because, when Garter, M.L.C.,
headed his Chamber of Commerce to the syndicate’s
office with a demand for a reduction of rates for carrying
stock, or fodder, or something, he would be told that
that wasn’t a Benevolent Asylum, but a place where they
expected 20s. at least for £l. He might even be called a
begging pauper. If Carter, M.L.C., and all the Cham-
ber of Commerce people who point out at intervals that
the railways would pay better if they were leased will
help the Govts, to run the lines on the cold commercial
basis on which a syndicate would run them, there won’t
be any need for a syndicate or a lease. But what Carter,
M.L.C., and others do is to knock holes in the roof, and
then complain that the rain comes in.
(2) A good many of the lines weren’t built to pay off-
hand, and can’t he expected to do it. Carter,
M.L.C., himself talked of the “enormous resources”
of the country; and most of the lines have been
built to get at some of those alleged resources.
The S. Australian Govt., which began to build a
transcontinental line on its own account, stopped for
want of funds; but now, when it invites “private
hands ” to finish the job, it doesn’t invite them to do it
on the old terms, because it knows they' wouldn’t think
of it —it offers to subsidise them with the freehold of a
territory as large as three or four European kingdoms put
together. If the Govt., when it built the same sort of
line, had similarly endowed its own Railway Depart-
ment, and added the rents and other profits to railway
revenue, there wouldn’t be one State-railway failure for
ten private-railway failures. But the people whom
Carter, M.L.C., mostly represents, want the Govt, to
build the railway and endow them with the land ; where-
fore they make the money which the State ought to get.
So what Carter, M.L.C., and the others do in that case
is to take several shingles off the roof, and then complain
that the rain comes in.
Anyhow, if Carter, M.L.C., really wants to
see the splendid results that private railway
enterprise can produce, there are no lack of ex-
amples. The Emu Bay Co. (Tas.), Midland of
Westralia (bankrupt despite a 3,000,000-acre sub-
sidy and cash assistance), the old Tasmanian
Main Line, Sydney Railroad Co., the Midland
Co. of M.L. and Queensland’s own Mareeba-
Chillagoe affair are all there. Likewise there are
others.
♦
Industrial Arbitration.
Sydney Daily Telegraph, just at the time when
Victoria was on the edge of a great crisis
through the lack of a fair-minded judicial tribunal
to which an appeal could be made to settle an in-
dustrial dispute, discovered that the N. S.W.
Industrial Arbitration Act was a failure. The
trend of an article, somewhat yes-noey in tone,
shows clearly enough in these excerpts :
When every decision that is not wholly favorable pro-
vokes either abuse of the Court or a demand for its re-
constitution in such a form that it will be more likely to
give judgments acceptable to one of the parties to litiga-
tion, it is not unreasonable to doubt at any rate the
present probability of the workers adapting themselves
to an essentially judicial system of composing industrial
difficulties.
Why not make the scheme one of conciliation, instead
of litigation, and save the State all the expense and the
irritation ?
If the two sections for whom the system was created
continue to express dissatisfaction with it, the public will
very soon have to consider whether the experiment is
worth going on with or whether its failure shall be con-
sidered proved.
This is quite a new Tory demand. An Industrial
Arbitration Court must, it seems, not only
give a just decision and keep the industrial
peace ; it must also completely please both parties
to all suits, or be abolished ! It is difficult to
imagine how such egregious folly can be penned
for the reading of persons who, presumably, have
some common-sense. It is not demanded of the
Central Criminal Court, in adjudicating on the
case of Blinky Bill (who has entered the pre-
mises of James Weight as a burglar and stolen
therefrom), that it should please both, or either of,
the parties to the suit. Blinky Bill’s dissatis-
faction at getting 10 years’ gaol, and James
Wright’s possible dissatisfaction that Blinky
Bill was not grilled over a slow fire, are matters
that the law refuses to take into considera-
tion at all. Provided that the community’s
interests are served, the law moves on
its majestic way undisturbed by the blas-
phemy of Bill or the grumblings of James.
Similarly, the Industrial Arbitration Court cannot
be expected, is not expected by sane people, to
please every suitor in every case. What the com-
munity demands of the Court is that its decisions
shall be reasonable and just and shall be firmly
enforced. No amount of grumbling should dis-
turb the equanimity of the Court, and if, as is
alleged, there is grumbling from both employers
and employed at its decisions, that is some sort of
an indication that the scales of justice are evenly
held. On the whole, allowing for the fact that
the N.S.W. Arbitration Court is a human insti-
tution and therefore not impeccable, allowing also
for the fact that it is entering upon an entirely
new and unexplored sphere of effort, it may be
congratulated on having done excellent work.
And the public (which is not exactly the ass that
the D.T., with its recent ideas of doddering
Toryism, seems to think it) is not likely to con-
sider its operations a failure because necessarily
they have displeased somebody, any more than
it is likely to abolish an honest customs system
because it interferes with the predatory habits of
such firms as Robert Reid and Co.
4
Australia’s Funeral.
There is a mine of pathos in the little wires
which come from the inside of Australia when-
ever a weather disturbance happens along. The
clouds bank up “ at the back of Bourke,” a few
drops of rain fall, and “our local correspondent,”
who has been waiting for rain for months—who
has heard the drought talked about every hour of
every day for a year past —rushes to the telegraph
office and earns sixpence by letting “his paper”
know that “rain has commenced to fall, and
prospects are decidedly hopeful.” It is dry
by the time he gets back to the pub where he
is going to spend the sixpence, and in an hour the
old dust storm is blowing as usual; but the daily
paper has been given an excuse to produce again
its stereotyped reflections on “ the break-up of
the drought” and “the early return of pro-
sperity.” It would be a lot nearer the truth now
to say that the drought never does break up alto-
gether ; if it is slightly damaged in one part it
continues in full working order in all the rest. So
far, in fact, from any good coming out of these
pathetic little 10 or 12 points which the inside
usually gets from the weather disturbance that
floods the coast, the effect is nearly always disas-
trous; for the change simply means more wind than
usual, and every such added gust of wind buries
another few square yards of this continent in a
grave of rolling, drifting sand. Under aboriginal
conditions the inlands were never overstocked ;
when drought afflicted one part the game moved
to another part, and the native went with them,
and the droughty part recovered. But when white
men came, and brought their stock, and built their
fences, the burden couldn’t be shifted off the sick
country when the drought struck it; fit or not,
it had to carry the hoofs And so disaster came.
The low edible bushes were eaten down till
they died. The higher scrub was cut till the
country was barren. In our national lunacy we
have sometimes even paid men (with borrowed
money) to do this work of scrub destruction. If
a shower fell, and there was a spring of grass, it
was wolfed as soon as it showed itself. The sur-
face was no longer knit by grass-roots ; for miles
around every watering-place it was broken by the
sharp hoof-points; and the wind, unchecked
any longer by bush or scrub, swept the
loose sand into rolling mounds, on which,
even in comparatively good seasons, nothing
will grow, except, perhaps, a little quickly-
germinating, quickly-dying soft herbage. Thus
every wind-storm adds to the desolation ; and
every severe pinch of drought, involving more
destruction of scrub and bush, adds to the speed
with which the inlands are being submerged.
And yet Australia might have expected it; for it
is the way that every other similarly-circum-
staneed continent has gone. There are cities
buried under the Sahara, in Africa—cities that
once stood in fruitful lands ; and there are cities
and treasures beneath the sand-drifts of the Gobi,
in Asia. Similar encroachments Australia may
be able to avert; but as yet Australia hardly
realises that there is anythingto avert—itcertainly
doesn’t generally realise, when it reads that the
drought has broken up, because showers have
fallen around the coast and at a few inland
stations, that for the most part the inland’s
portion has been gales of wind, for which the
continent must pay with a few more acres of
desert. Until Australia does realise what is
taking place, there is no hope at all; and when it
has realised it, there probably isn’t much. Years
of absolute rest might do, rest such as there was
when only the kangaroo and our black brother
were there ; and even then the imported rabbit
would prejudice the scheme. But Australia
won’t take that heroic measure ; probably it
can’t, for it would mean writing off millions from
the country’s supposed wealth. So Australia will
almost certainly go on getting buried till the
continent will be a Sahara with a moderately
fertile rim and a few inland oases.
+
The Sydney merchants want a special court
established, in which to try them when they are
prosecuted for lying, perjury and attempted
thieving in connection with the Customs. Next
they will want smoking rooms attached, a free
bar and lounges, and a man to hand refreshments
to each fraud. They object to have to consort
with drunks. Now, when has a merchant in
Sydney had to consort with drunks when charged
Civilised Man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He’s lazy and fond of his ease,
His trumpet he frequently blows,
He frequently knocks at the knees,
He frequently turns in his toes.
He’s frequently red at the nose,
He’s frequently bulky to span,
And he winds a big horn as lie goes,
And they christen him “ Civilised Man
His faith is a matter of fees,
And heathens are all of his foes,
He frequently launches on sprees
And wakes in the morning morose
His shoddy’s a torrent that flows
From Beersheba down unto Dan,
He’s a bantam that constantly crows
And they christen him “Civilised Man
The gods of the heathen he flees
And worships his own in a doze,
He’s lord of the land and the seas
And the stars with their treasures, he trows;
So proud and so paunchy his pose—
His form in amazement you scan,
This two-legged limper in clothes
Who’s christened as “Civilised Man
He’s not a fit subject for prose,
And Poetry’s not in his plan ;
A creature unique in his nature he grows
And they christen him “Civilised Man”
P. L.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE .. *265,597,775
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ' £19,915,124
ASSETS ........ .. *73,855,783
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. .. - „ .. .. £4,889,175
SURPLUS .. .. .. . *15,418,151
INCREASE IN SURPLUS .. .. . . - . .. £620,434
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by ... . £6,565,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M‘MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
K. G. COWLEY, Secretary. ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Patriotism Exalteth a Nation.
This may not be quite orthodox, but it is nevertheless true. It is also a fact
patriotism is sadly lacking in its people. Parochialism and selfishness are rarnP a. r
where—in Parliament and People. Instead of AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE
of equal merit to the Foreign-made Article being preferred, they are only taken li on
The very men who cry the loudest, “ AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIAN • U
the extent of keeping out the English Hatters —are those who, from pure prej >
for the Foreign-made Article in preference to the Australian production. This 1 of
spirit that prevails in America, and ivhich has made it the greatest country on are
the earth. There nothing is good unless it is “ ’Murkan,” and so it must be here _
to become a Nation. The Rosewarne Packing Co., Limited, have lately added, to ■ ; n
branches of their canning business the manufacture of Potted Ham and other i
two and four-ounoe tins. The packages are neatly got up, the contents are a -
E IS LOWER THAN, THE GOOD
EQUAL TO, AND THE PRICE
patriotic enough to give them a trial, and you will find that they are
They may be had from all the Principal Storekeepers and Grocers
with offences against the Customs ? Drunks are
run in and dealt with in the charge court —the
toney merchants are dealt with in the summons
division, where drunks never, by any chance,
obtrude their objectionable breath. The “drunks”
objection is merely another monumental Freetrade
lie —a myth like the dry dog that learned to swim.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “A Face at the Window.’
Criterion.. “ Private Secretary.”
Royal “Circus Girl.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “Are You a Mason?”
Belmore Park Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Midsummer Night’s Dream. ’
Her Majesty’s “ My Lady Molly.”
Theatre Royal “ The Price ol Peace.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety 00.
»
The quality of the latest production at
Sydney Royal is an improvement on the lament-
able “ Dick Whittington,” and even if it is not a
very aggressive improvement, still the advance
is a subject for congratulation. Musical comedy
is generally something about a girl—the “Gaiety
Girl,” or the “ Shop Girl,” or the “ Work
Girl,” or the miscellaneous girl, or something
like that; so the “Circus Girl” is strictly
orthodox in its line. Musical comedy is also, as a
rule, a ihixture of comedy, burlesque, opera, night-
mare, kaleidoscope, oil-painting, and circus ; and
here, again, the new production is strictly orthodox.
The plot is so fragmentary as to be reminiscent
of those Centralian rivers which disappear for
long stretches under the sand, and reappear as
suddenly without any ostensible reason. The
incoherent story, or rather paragraph, keeps on
vanishing in a wilderness of variety turns and re-
appearing cheerfully at intervals, with a pre-
tence that it hasn’t been away at all. What the
present Royal audiences enjoy is the sight of a
British Honorable being shot out of a cannon, in
which he has taken refuge from a jealous wife ;
and the comparison between the gigantic Toothick
Pasha, the wrestler of Drivelli’s circus, and the
diminutive Cockney mixer of drinks, who has
undertaken to wrestle him in the hope of winning
£lOO so as to be able to marry Lucille, the slack-wire-
walker. The British Honorable who has fallen in
love with the legs of La Favorita, the Circus Girl,
is not a specially interesting personage, and in the
fortunes of La Favorita. herself no one is much
concerned. Even the loves of Dick Capel, the
Cannon King, and Dora Weymss, the girl
who is in Paris to marry the British Honor-
able aforementioned, are comparatively dull.
The interest in the show centres round the
Cockney barman and Lucille. That tiny adven-
turer, having accepted the challenge to wrestle
Toothick, decides that it is a case of guile and
not brute strength; so he fraternises with his
monster, and pours 25 francs worth of champagne
into him (the giant is nearly seven feet high, and
is understood to be a native of the State just now
being ruined by Bent). The giant breaks things,
and is got into the circus with difficulty, and the
curtain rises a second and shows the mammoth
down on all fours and the pigmy pushing for all
he is worth to roll him over. When he has done
this the slight thread of coherence peters out.
Thenceforward it is all spectacular.
• * * »
Hugh Ward takes the part of the circus
proprietor and works it for all it is worth.
Maurice Dudley makes a big success of his part as
a Commissaire of Police who is waiting to hear
the bugle sound to intimate to him that he is a
father, and is reduced to imbecility by the bugle
sounding three times at short intervals. The
last seen of Dudley is when he is rushing home
to stop that bugle sounding again at any cost.
Miss Rose Hamilton as the querulous wife of
Drivelli, the circus proprietor, has a squalid part,
but plays it well. Elsie Moore, the Circus Girl,
has to struggle with the dullest item of the show,
and the fact that it isn’t anything like so dull as it
might be says a great deal for the lady. The
people who have the best opportunities are Miss
Rose Musgrove as Lucille, which part she plays
with considerable skill and human sympathy;
C. R. Bantock as Sir Titus Weymss, and Fred
Graham as Biggs. They are three artists whom
one meets with pleasure and parts from with
reluctance.
514 514 514 5)4
The large black goloshes and the private
secretary with his Bath bun and his glass of milk
appeared duly at Sydney Criterion to an appre-
ciative but not boisterously enthusiastic audience
last Saturday. The curate of to-day is not so
much the bun-devouring animal as formerly. He
is more often a large, aggressive person who has
joined the Young Men’s Christian Athletic
Society and patronises football. Consequently
the “Private Secretary” isn’t the biting satire
that it was years ago, but so long as Frank
Thornton manages the brolly and the bun it will
continue to be revived at uncertain intervals with a
certain amount of success. The plot hasn’t varied
with the even flow of years. Douglas Cattermole
pretends to be the private secretary, and the
private secretary unconsciously figures as Douglas
Cattermole. He is also understood to be a spirit-
medium owing to his habit of going to sleep with
a tablecloth round him. The rest is mostly loud
cries, confusion, the frequent ejecting of the
secretary, and the sailing of the bun and the
bottle of milk along the atmosphere. There is no
great moral attached to the “Private Secretary,”
except that the Meek and Lowly are liable to be
shot into a large box and that he who ruleth his
spirit shall invariably lose his golosh ; but what
moral there may be is well conveyed by Frank
Thornton and not utterly spoilt by the rest of the
company.
As the Rev. Robert Spalding, Frank
Thornton makes the most of a character wherein
the humor must be conveyed largely by facial
expression, and by a humble and contrite accent,
and much business with the bun and the
brolly. The private secretary has but one
epigram, and he makes it while being stowed
into a trunk. John Denton, as the tailor
who desires to rise in society, acts well.
Joseph Wilson is fair as an excitable uncle—the
uncle whom Harwood used to make a man of
might in the long ago, The stage uncle is invari-
ably a fiery person. Alexander Bradley makes a
presentable hero, but R. Erskine, as another
uncle —a worried-looking one—in a red coat, acts
as if shot into the part at the last moment. As a
lady who sees ghosts, Mrs. Walter Hill shows
some force, and Miss Yera Fordyce and Miss
Leonie Norbury gambol round as the usual light-
hearted English girls. Miss Norbury is playful
in a somewhat perfunctory fashion.
514 5|4 514 5)4
An especially new item appeared at Fitz-
geralds’ Circus on Saturday, when three noblv-
born horses clove the air and disappeared into a
tank about 18ft. deep and containing 300,000 gals.
of water. The jump is taken from a height of
20ft., and to make it look as if the event happens
casually at “our beautiful harbor” or thereabouts,
and is done by way of an agreeable pastime, a
good deal of scenery is painted round the tank.
Likewise there is a large advertisement telling
the public to drink somebody’s something,
without which no harbor is complete. The
horses, by the way, follow the excellent
advice of the advertisement, and have a little
nip of brandy before taking their bath, with a
warm bran mash and a massage afterwards. As
they jump they spread their hoofs in the air in
a masterly fashion, but probably do it to get away
from the advertisement which is specially hideous.
The horse-act is a serious and poetic function,
comic relief being supplied by three humans in
weird garments who flop into the tank first. The
rest of the show is very much as before. Mdlle.
Onra flutters along the wire like a silver butterfly,
and Mdlle. Dagmar, a cream white lady on a
cream white horse, has a picturesque effect. The
performing dog still ties and unties himself, while
the “educated donkey” halves himself publicly
and leaves the ring in detachments.
514 514 514 514
“Are You a Mason?” continues its
wonderful success at Sydney Palace ; last Satur-
day (the fifth of the play) the house was as much
crowded as on the first night. There is a moral
for theatre managers in this, and it is: Spend
money and you make money; try to save money
and you lose money. There is as yet no whisper
of the withdrawal of “ Are You a Mason ? ” and
no intimation as to whether the company pro-
ducing it will be seen in other comedies. The
general hope is that it will—in as many other
comedies as possible.
514 514 5)4 *
At Sydney Lyceum “ A Woman of
Pleasure ” concludes her rapid career on Friday to
give place to “ A Face at the Window,” said to
be a thrilling detective drama. It is to be hoped
that the “ humor” of the new piece will be better
than was inflicted on the public in the last. In
“The Woman of Pleasure” the comic relief of
one Act consists largely of the funny man being
bereft of his garments in public, and this dreary
old semi-nude joke is spun out to unnecessary
length. It is alleged that the man who has to take
one of the parts in this scene nearly threw up his
billet rather than go through with it, but this
statement may be a gross libel. These remarks
were reserved till this late stage so that the
Purity Brigade would not have time to crowd
the theatre to see if the play was as bad as it was
painted.
514 * 5|4 514
Mark Hambourg—he of the sweet melody
and the long stormy hair—is to give his last
Sydney concert at the Town Hall on Saturday.
*4 5(4 514 5)4
Sydney Tivoli is doing good business on
very much the same programme as last week;
some new balladists adorn the “first part’’and
Mr. Ted Box sings an unnecessarily large number
of songs in the second part. Seeley and West
have changed their turn somewhat and Seeley (or
it may be West) adds new fun to his coon im-
personation. The Boissetts, pantomimists and
acrobats, continue to be the chief attraction.
5)4 51* 514 *
Notwithstanding the strike, the new
comic opera, “My Lady Molly,” was welcomed
on Saturday by the usual crowd, most of whom
had trammed or tramped to Her Majesty’s.
Sidney Jones, the “Geisha” man, is responsible
for the “Lady Molly” music, which is bright,
tuneful, catchy stuff, unweighted by dull,
unattractive passages. Its weakness, may be,
lies in a certain lack of the robustness appropriate
to an 18th century picture. The story, Arcadian
and stereotyped, is enacted by characters remin-
iscent of “Dorothy”—a hunting squire, duelling
gallants, masquerading maidens, an amorous
spinster, and a comic menial. Squire Bathurst
destines his daughter, Carrie Moore, to be thebride
of the baritone captain. Neither dad nor daughter
has ever seen the captain, and she refuses to
marry him, in any case, owing to her forbidden
fancy for the small tenor. Miss Florence Young,
in the name-part, has previously scorned the
addresses of the baritone, but she also scorns the
thought of letting the other girl get him. To
prevent them meeting, she steals her old love’s
portmanteau containing his gala array and letters
of introduction. Florence Young and Celia
Ghiloni, having put on the captain’s finery,
including nether garments so tight that Satur-
day’s audience was frightened to see them walk
down the stage stairs, pass themselves off as
Harold Thorley and friend ; with the result that
when the real baritone arrives he is imprisoned M
a highwayman. Then the misunderstanding" are
cleared up in a satisfactory musical manner-
f ( $ •
To Thorley, as the hero, fall some good
songs which he treats to advantage, and his
appearance and stage form show a vast improve-
ment on his first Australian effort. But he must
get on ever so much more “pace’’before he can
dream of exciting a thrill in even the most
susceptible woman’s soul. Florence Young sings
well and acts intelligently, as usual, but reveals
her lack of resource by the resemblance of her
“boy” business, to her remembered tricks
as Dorothy in breeches. Reginald Roberts,
with his American intonation, seems _ out
of drawing with his old English surroundings.
Carrie Moore, too, as the Squire’s daughter, rubs
in the fact that she is not the sort of girl to play
an old world Miss —all prunes, prism and propriety.
Meekly plastered hair disagrees with her features,
and when she sings “I’m going to be very good ’
in coon style hearers can’t help reflecting that,
though the words are the words of a country
mouse, the airs are those of a town cat. Bathurst
makes a decorative old English father. Maud
Chetwynd, in short skirts of pale green, flits
about lightly as a thistle-down fay. Celia
Ghiloni gets some swing into her song of
a trousseau. Marietta Nash does good work
but somehow does not succeed in disguising her
back-numberishness. Lauri, as an Irish gossoon,
has to keep himself in hand so as to fit in with the
Old English picture. In “Florodora” brazen
waggery and gaggery went down well, but in
“My Lady Molly” the fun must be quiet and
quaint. Decorative dances and bright choruses
help out the effect of the new production at Her
Majesty’s. One of the most comic bits in the
piece is provided by a group of staid, portly
chorus-men, who coquette with flower-arches in a
wedding scene. Said plump vocal identities are
understood to flirt with the bridesmaids, make
eyes and frisk generally. Their frisk methods
suggest the mature gaiety of the rhinoceros.
5)4 * * *
Bland Holt’s new drama, “The Price of
Peace,” got a fair start at Melbourne Royal on
Saturday night. The title has no reference to
the engine-drivers’ trouble. It means that Walter
Baker, disguised as the Prime Minister of Britain,
takes a mean advantage of a Russian gentleman
by shooting him in the small of the back,
whereby the unhappy foreigner is prevented
from sending such information to the Rus-
sian Government as would bring disaster
to certain British troops. Then Balter con-
gratulates his tough political conscience on
having secured peace with murder, after which he
expires on the floor of the House of Commons.
Next week The Bulletin will have‘something to
say about the clever performance of Baker and
others; also the weak points of Holt’s deserving
show will receive attention.
#* * *
At the Princess Theatre the banner of
Shakspeare floats on the breeze of popular favor
as gaily as circumstances permit. Rudinoff and
Co. are doing their best at the Opera House, but
the Bijou management decided to close the
season rather than present a firm, unflinching
front to the railway strike.
** * *
Any deficiencies in the Melbourne show
items above must be set down to the fact that some
interesting copy is wandering helplessly over the
face of the earth in Bent’s trains. That extra-
ordinary individual got away about six trains
on Monday, therefore if six sound engines
could be picked out of the wreck to which
he has reduced the Vic. rolling-stock,
these trains should have reached their destin-
ations. Nevertheless his Sydney express broke
down, and at latest advices was about 24 hours
late on a six-hours’ journey. Bent is a great rail-
way manager.
** * *
“ The Fortune Teller,” with its spectacular
magnificence and occasional rise into grand
opera, has been doing big business at the Adelaide
Royal. Madame Slapoffski scores particularly
as the girl who is another girl as well, and
occasionally an improbable young man into the
bargain, out the whole row of principals is strong.
Coleman has left the Tivoli, but Winton
stays on as business-manager. He now, by the
way, advertises himself as “Jay Winton,” to the
great derision of M’Ginty. Spry and Monti
improve on acquaintance.
Launceston (Tas.) Examiner in a fit of
admiration :
Mr. Reid realises that before you can collect customs
duties you must have imports.
Which puts the whole idiotic revenue tariff
disease in a sentence. You must have lots of
imports so that you can make money by taxing
them, just as you must have lots of drunkards if
you are going to make money out of fines for
drunkenness, and lots of leprosy if a poll-tax on
lepers is going to yield any appreciable income.
And to have these imports you must keep down
local industry. And then to pay for these imports
you must borrow money. The Freetrader believes
in keeping down local manufactures, so that he
may buy other people’s goods and tax himself for
the privilege of doing so, in order that by paying
the tax to himself he may have some money.
Item from a Sydney daily :
MR. BENT’S OPINION.
The Minister for Railways, when seen to-day, said :
“ The Government must and shall win, and the sorriest
men in the country presently will be the drivers and fire-
men, who are giving up their gilt-edged billets. lam
greatly improved in health, and feel as gay as a bird to-
day. Now, that the strike has come, it relieves the strain
on the feelings wonderfully.”
The brutish joy of Caliban when he has smashed
something ! Could there be a more absolute con-
demnation of the Victorian Government’s attitude
than the gaiety of this unspeakable man when he
has brought so much suffering on the State and
ruin to so many individuals ?
The Wild Cat Column
Tire Westralian Premier is almost „„„„ .
Federal Attorney-General Deakin for
before taking over the State debts the (?om * mg that >
must make a bargain with the States not to go on?"' 111
ing the same things over and over again •< w paWll '
to manage our own affairs,” he savs fw.s!i • reahl e
depreciated condition of all State . d h e - nn e the
doubtful, but it may pass. The pofnU ‘ S „ seen «
for consideration are these P that rea % call
(1) It is an urgent matter that the State dekf. v
be taken over by the Commonwealth debts shou M
(2) Considering how the borrowing disease k„
into the vitals of the States it isn’t likely they win eaten
to abjure or limit their new borrowings r* ?ree
Kalends. rowings till the Greek
(3) It isn’t a good thing for the country that the t.v
S'SS st ‘“ <lebta ,hou,d »« “g
SfcST: th “ “ “ * *"* , * 1 °« «' 0«
r h TiM^ startpaying off the existin «
(2). The Commonwealth also to create, by direct t,v.
tion, a fund to be devoted to the repurchase in the »
market of the new securities issued by the StatJs
amount collected in each State to I^spent in ti' 1 '
purchase, in the open market, of that State’s seCdH*'
The Commonwealth can’t legally take over the
of the States, but it can legally invest any money i !
to spare in any security it likes. y 11 has
In other words, let the people, through their stat.
Governments, run up new debts if they like is
meanwhile let the Australian Government tax theses!,
a 6 am 6 Stead ' ly with a view to S ettin £ them out of deTt
• * * *
The result of the monthly analysis of the States’
balance-sheets, so far as the States publish balann.
sheets, follows this. People who want light and ovfui
reading, and people who don’t care a hang whether tC
country gets deeper in pawn or not, are cordially inv
to pass on to the next column
The facts regarding New South Wales are as
follows: M
10 months’ revenue
(excluding Harbor 10 months’
Trust and Re- Expenditure. Ofeflrjt
sumptions).
1902 .. £8,914,012 £9,522,271 £6OB 2<w
1903 .. 8,973,139 10,170,981 1,197,842
Increase £59,127 £648,710 £589^83
By taking in the rents from the resumed areas as revenue
the position can be made to look a little better; but as a
great deal of this property has not yet been paid for, it is
extremely doubtful whether the rents ought to be in-
cluded. Any State and any Govt, could get a surplus
every time if it resumed enough property and didn’t pay
for it but hung on to the rents. The position, with the
rents included, is as follows :
10 months’
Revenue 10 months’ Expen-
(Rents in- diture. Deficit,
eluded).
1902 .. £9,136,552 £9,522,271 £385 719
1903 .. 9,235,523 10,170,981 935,458
Increase £98,971 £648,710 £549,739
The loan expenditure, for reasons so obvious that they
needn’t be mentioned, has been cut down severely during
the last month ; less was spent from this account than
in any of the nine months that went before. There is
still, for the 10 months, a net increase in the spendings
as compared with the first 10 months of last year; but
that is due, first, to the Owe’See’s riotous behavior
during the early part of the financial year, and, then, to
larger payments for resumed properties
1902 1903
(10 months). (10 months).
Ordinary Loan Ex-
penditure .. £8,073,903 £2,666,832 Dec. £407,07)
On Sydney Land
Resumptions .. 998,661 1,426,812 Inc. 428,251
Total .. £4,072,464 £4,093,644 Net.inc. £21,180
Confining the analysis to last month (April), and com-
paring the figures with those for April, 1902, decreases
are found everywhere :
Ap., 1902. Ap.,1903. Decreases.
Revenue (inc. rents).. £1,055,126 £1,000,782 £54,344
Revenue (ex. rents) .. 1,028,363 976,442 51,921
Expenditure (Rev. ac.) 1,321,731 1,196,523 125,208
Loan Expenditure .. 585,014 239,781 345,233
Yictoria supplies much less data, but, evidently,
the same familiar deficit. For April the revenue was
£529,505 as compared with £561,834 in April, 1902, or
a decrease of £32,329; of this shortage the balance
returned by the Federal Government was responsible for
£6259. For the 10 months of the financial year the
revenue has been £5,589,006 as against £5,769,907 up to
the same date last year, or a total shortage of £180,901.
What the expenditure has been and what the deficit will
he are, however, as pure conj'ecture as what Bent will do
next. A State which hires a man like that to run its big
concerns might reasonably look for at least a quarterly
statement; but Victoria takes everything on trust for the
full 12 months.
Queensland apparently continues to get a little
further out of trouble ; but the improvement is more
apparent than real: —
10 months’ 10 months’ ex- Surplus
Revenue penditure (nominal)
1902 .. £3,017,608 £2,804,780 £212,828
1903 .. 2,830,342 2,587,585 242,757
Dec. £187,266 Dec. £217,195 In. £29,929
Queensland’s surplus, however, is purely nominal.
That State only squares up with Bull-Cohen every si
months, and as the squaring up is due in| , J “ ne > a " a
Queensland has so far only £242,757 with which to p
£748,000 of interest, the old familiar deficit will not
be absent. A comparison of the two Aprils comes out
follows
April, 1902. April, 1903.
Revenue .. .. £305,092 £310,980 Inc. £5,888
Expend, (ordinary) 218,520 193,816 Dec. - >
Nominal Surplus .. 86,572 117,164 Inc. 3 ,
Expend, (loan) .. 60,167 61,322 Inc.
All of which is satisfactory as far as it goes, on j 1
doesn’t go nearly far enough. f
Tasmania (which doesn’t furnish monthly
expenditure returns): —
Four months’ revenue.. £240,819 £275,768 Inc. £34,949
Revenue for April.. .. 65,649 78,470 Inc. 12,92
As George Reid says, Tasmania is now .doing'eo
indeed, under a system and a policy which Geo g
did his best to defeat.
S. Australia furnishes returns only to the end
of March (nine months):
Nine months’ Nine months rtAfirdt
revenue. expenditure. wj
1902 .. £1,757,243 .. £1,923,039 -■ £l ®’g g ,
1903 .. 1,766,947 .. 1,820,029 ..
Inc. £9JO4 Dec. “£103,010 Dec. W,™


TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
STOCK* S in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. INDE NTS. - LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPL/STRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branoh es—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Prioe Is. 6d., post free.*
• • * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.9.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager. *
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOJin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
• • • »
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* • * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develop, with option of
purchase “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address : “ Option,”
Melbourne *
• • • *
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and enquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, 7 Central Chambers, Queen-st., Brisbane.*
Thb Policy Holder, July, 1902, writes:—
“The last report of the Colonial Mutual shows that this
important institution is maintaining its hold upon the
assuring public."*
« • * *
Ore without sulphides in which the gold values
are finely disseminated throughout the gangue is one
amenable to cyanidation or chlorination. Should this
ore contain sulphides it could not be so simply treated.
It is now recognised to be good practice to first concen-
trate out the sulphurets on Wilfley Tables and to treat
the tailing thus cleaned by the proper lixiviation process.
Should the ore be a tellurid? that would require previous
roasting the tendency to “ bead ” or “ shot ” in the roast-
ing is surmounted by passing the leached pulp over
"Wilfley Tables, by which the values too coarse to be dis-
solved by the lixiviation process, are concentrated, to-
gether, with any unroasted ore, sulphides or foreign
matter. Illustrated catalogues of the Wilfley Table, with
valuable notes on ore dressing, can be obtained from the
Austral Otis Company, South Melbourne, the Sole Manu-
facturers in Australia.*
* * * *
Compound gauge glasses (Schott and Genossen)
as used by the Victorian Railways and the Melbourne
Trams are worth a trial. De Deer, Silberberg and Co.,
Bourke-street, Melbourne, the newly formed partnership
to which we referred last week, are sole agents for
Australasia.*
* * * »
To empty old abandoned shafts, or to cope with
inrushes of water at a minimum cost, may be effected by
the use of the Vertical Plunger Sinking Pumps, manufac-
tured by The A. S. Cameron Steam Pump Works of New
"York ; and represented by Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, who hold stocks of these and various other
sizes and styles of steam or air pumps. These pumps are
distinct from any other make of so-called “Cameron’
Pump. They work automatically, and have no dead
centre, neither have they springs nor outside valve gear
to become deranged. They occupy less space in a shaft
than any other Sinking Pump of same capacity.*
INSIST ON CETTINQJ^^n
.
Gftf ena\ango,Cashmere
,„ r » - V -A 1 MADRASI- , e
All Grocery anOrorefeeper£Lveryiu}]cfe
SCHWEPPES SODA
Comparing the Jan.-March quarters, result? are :
Jan.-Mar., Jan.-Mar.,
1902. 1903.
Revenue. ..£072,603 ..£704,323 ..me. £31720
Expenditure .. 022,832 .. 603,920 . Dec 18 912
Surplus .. .. 49,771 .. 100,403 .. Ino.‘ 60,632
This is satisfactory progress ; and, with the increased
direct taxes looked for in the current quarter, and with
a determination to go slow in the matter of ex-
penditure, Treasurer Butler, a plain person who isn’t
putting on any frills, looks for a small surplus. Still as
S.A. is responsible for the invariable N.T. deficit’ of
£lOO,OOO or so, the net result, after all, will be that the
familiar I O l>will have to be put in the till at the end of
the year.
Westralia continues to make it difficult to
understand why its Treasurer, Gardiner, went out
on the market the other day for a little short-dated
loan at a high rate of interest, all the same as the eastern
States which can t raise the hint of a surplus among
them. Working only on the returns to the end of March
(April figures not being yet available except in fragments
as received through the untrustworthy telegrams) the
position shows up like this
Nine months’ Nine months’
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus
1902 £2,657,817 £2,374,084 £283 733
1903 2,712,546 2,422,441 290’105
Increases £54,729 £48,357 £6372
And for the two Marches alone :
March, 1902. March, 1903.
Revenue £306,309 £310,725 .. Inc. £4416
Expenditure 295,779 301,194 . Inc 5415
Surplus 10,530 9,531 .. Dec. 999
All the same this surplus was with one exception the
smallest for the year, while the expenditure—£3ol,l94
was absolutely the greatest in Westralia’s history.
The principal features of all which are these
N.S.W. probably continues the shocking example of the
group. Victoria is most likely a shocking example, too
but its sins won’t be found out for another couple of
months. Queensland, at the present rate of going will
have a deficit of about £400,000; that is to say in ten
months it has saved £242,757, and in two months
more it has to pay out £748,000. Still its recent
movements are more satisfactory. Tasmania, through
doing the thing which G. H. Reid said would ruin
and impoverish any country, is climbing into affluence.
S. Australia is, comparatively, also in temporary affluence.
And Westralia, which still collects border customs duties
of its own, continues to have a good time, and (unless
some amazing foolishness or bad luck happens in the next
couple of months) will have Australia’s one substantial
surplus for the year. With the possible exception of S.
Aus., and the probable exception of Tas. (of which it is
too early yet to speak) it will, in plain English, be the one
Australian State which won’t have to borrow money in
order to pay its interest bill, although that is alleged to
be the thing that no Australian State ever does
* * • •
The Commonwealth Government requires its
civil servants to insure their lives in some “ approved ”
office, and it has published a list of “ approved ” offices.
Thereby it in some sense guarantees these offices as
thoroughly desirable concerns in which to insure, and
gives them a certificate to that effect. The list of
‘approved ” offices, as published in the Age, includes
the Australian Metropolitan—a concern whose expenses
and dividends last year swallowed up more than the
entire income ; a concern that accumulated out of earn-
ings less than £lO,OOO in its first six years, and then
saw more than half of it vanish in its seventh year ;
and whose alleged assurance fund is mostly created on
paper by persistent writing-up of the nominal
value of its building. At its investigation it only
prevented its assurance fund appearing as far less than
its liabilities by the process of writing up its building.
The Commonwealth Government, according to the Age
has “ approved” of this office ; likewise of the Standard
Life Association which is in a very different category but
which is so small and new that a wise Government would
wait awhile before putting it on the list. Also, it has
seemingly “ approved ” of the small and seedy Temper-
ance and General. Does the department which looks
after these things make any inquiry, or does it “ approve ”
at random ?
* * • *
“Provident” : When N.S.W. friendly societies
were last completely overhauled by the Government
actuary, the position of the four mentioned was : Druids
(Sydney district), 10s. 9d. of assets to every £1 of liabili-
ties ; Foresters (Sydney district), 12s. Bd. to ditto •
Independent Oddfellows, 16s. 5d., and Manchester Odd-
fellows, 14s. 3d.; P.A.F.S., 13s. 6d.
* • * *
Norman : As an investment for dividend
purposes it is miserably poor. Still you get a bonus on
purchases. Apply to secretary re shares.
* • • «
“T.H.V.”: Acoording to the Mint assay certifi-
cate your gold had, in every 10,000 parts, 990 parts alloy,
90 of which were silver. Such gold is worth about
£3 16s. 7d. per oz. You received £3 15s. Bd. net for it.
* • • •
The Equitable Permanent Benefit Building
Land and Savings Institution (Sydney) presents its affairs
in a way which allows of no more complete a comparison
than the following
Dividends : Paid
up shares, 9 p.c.;
, contributing Written Re-
sist March Profits, shares, 8 p.c. off. serves.
1895 .. No information supplied .. £29,003
.. „ £47 .. 30,438
•’ *> 467 .. 27,587
■■ 728 .. 27,313
1899 .. £iBlo .. £6363 .. 421 .. 28,339
1900 .. No information supplied 317 .. 26,785
1901 .. 7556 .. £6373 .. 1286 .. 26,682
1902 .. 8431 .. 6338 .. 522 .. 28,253
1903 .. 8466 8451 ■.. 210 .. 28,058
The Equitable Permanent 8.8. L. and S.I. is in the habit
of presenting a fearful mass of figures, through which
only a glimmer of light can be seen ; and the glimmer
isn’t much brighter this time than usual. The profits are
somewhat larger than previously, however, and the dis-
bursements to shareholders a great deal larger. In addi-
tion to the dividend and bonus to shareholders in the
ordinary way, £247 has been distributed as a bonus to
borrowing shareholders ; in the foregoing, this amount
as an expense and is deducted from profits.
The cause of this burst of generosity, which even went to
the length of distributing some of the reserves, isn’t ex-
plained. The shareholders’ funds at the commencement
of the year amounted to £70,425 capital, and £28,253
reserves—a total of £98,678. Upon this the profits (ex-
clusive of the amount to be divided among borrowers)
are equal to £8 11s. 9d. per cent., which is a good result
nowadays.
• * * *
More theories and more explanations keep com-
ing to hand in the controversy between John Bridge and
Go., Sydney wool-brokers, and the Association of Buying
a, n Brokers. It is shown on the Association’s
oc/ 90 ar as particular incident (referred to, B.
25/4/03) is concerned, Bridge and Co. were in the
wrong, and that their “ manifesto ” to the public gave an
and misleading statement of the case. As to
® a ®. 'arg*r question—the benefit or otherwise of the rules
which the buying and selling brokers have mutually
drawn up for the regulation of the wool trade—it is not
possible to be positive, but the case for the brokers looks
feasible and is as follows :
(4) That some strict rules and regulations to govern
the sale of wool are necessary, otherwise the work of a
season could not be satisfactorily carried out.
(2) That rules which appear to the outside public to be
arbitrary have to be considered in the light of the
peculiar requirements of the trade and to be judged by
their effect in actual working ; that, in this connection,
the rules are drawn up after free and full discussion, that
they are fully approved of by the broking firm which is
supposed to specially represent the producers, and that,
to the knowledge of the chief brokers, they do not in any
way conflict with the interests of the producers.
Ib is set down that wool must nob be offered at
Sydney by auction more than twice. This, it is claimed,
is necessary to avoid congestion at the auction sales ; an
unreasonable reserve might be put on some wool, and the
Offering of it again and again would prevent other wool
getting a chance at auction ; wool may be catalogued and
offered for private sale as many times as the producer
chooses. The rule that a lot of wool must not be removed
from one broker’s store to another is defended on the
ground that it prevents a competition among brokers
which would be possibly very bad for the grower. One
broker having offered wool at a reserve of 10d., and not
gettingit, another broker, “to secure the business,” might
guarantee the grower lOd. and sell it to a buyer at that
figure, by allowing him to get at the same time a 9d. wool
for Sid. That, of course, would be bad for the man
who owned the 9d. wool. In effect, the brokers claim
that cut-throat competition amongst them would serve
no good purpose, and might serve an evil one. So far as
The Bulletin can judge, from an inquiry as to the rules,
the system of trade-unionism among the brokers is of
advantage in many respects, and inflicts no hardship on
the producer. At the same time it occurs to this paper
that if any union of carpenters or railway employees had
equally stringent rules, the wool-brokers would want the
military called out to fire on these carpenters or railway
men. The “restriction of free competition,” the
“restraint of trade,” the fining and boycotting of
the broker who “blacklegs” on the union, the
dictation which the brokers exercise towards a
leading industry, and their interference with other
people’s business are all things they would denounce
with great bitterness if the Hebrew Hod-Carriers’
Association were the offender. The Bulletin, however,
has a friendly feeling for the Hebrew Hod-Carriers’ Asso-
ciation, and though the wool-brokers carry their trades-
unionism pretty far, it isn’t prepared to say that they are
wrong.
• * • *
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative Society,
Ltd. (N.S.W.), has steadily increased its business, though
the increase isn’t what it might have been if the Richmond
River cow were drought-proof :
Dividends Carried „
Profits, and Bonus to to Ke ‘
Consignors. Reserves. serveB.
Mar., 1901.. £3Ol 6p.c.= £45 £256 £256
Mar., 1902.. 1528 162 418
Mar., 1903.. 2957 {| 0 P n S’ 8 = 2 |ll} 121 639
Gross profit was £2999 ; from this, £42 is taken for wear
and tear. Of that gross profit £1603 was made in the first
half of the year; £1396 in the second half—a rather con-
siderable falling away. In spite of that, bonuses are
being put up instead of being modified : previously, all
consignors received 20 per cent., while for the past
year dairy-produce consignors are to get 25 per
cent. The result is a ridiculously small addition
to the reserves—a matter of only £l2l, or about
4 per cent, of the total profits. This, in view of
the exceedingly large proportion of credit business done
by the society, and hence the large possibilities in the
way of bad debts, is insufficient. The business is
advancing very satisfactorily (for the first year the value
of the produce sold was £71,855, while for last year, the
third, it was £277,439); and there ought not to be any need,
therefore, to offer such an unreasonable bribe as a 25 p.c.
bonus. In fact, the business that can’t be got without
an inducement of that size had better be allowed to. go
somewhere else—for the present, anyway.
• • • •
George Turner, as acting-Minister for Customs,
found himself compelled recently to meet the fraudulent
importer with a new regulation : “ The acting-Minister
directs that, in view of the number of cases in which
goods are included in the packages and not in the invoice,
such goods will in future be forfeited, and no excuse
whatever will be accepted.” This moved the anguished
Sydney Telegraph to announce that Liberty had now
finally departed from Australia : “ Whatever the value of
the goods,” moaned that paper, “ they may be forfeited
right out and that through no fault of merchants on this
side." It is a pity the ineffably silly Telegraph doesn’t
better disguise its sympathy with commercial thieves.
If the man at the other side sends goods to the man at
this side, and doesn’t charge them in the invoice—the
genuine invoice, that is—the man here only loses some-
thing he hasn’t paid for. But the exporter "doesn’t heap
presents on the importer in that off-hand fashion, so the
goods are charged in the genuine invoice, but not in the
bogus invoice presented at the Customs. The Depart-
ment now warns the commercial thieves that this variety
of bogus invoice swindle must leave off—wherefore the
Telegraph’s decision that Liberty has now been blown
out like a tandsticker match.
• • • •
The last three annual reports of the Indepen-
dent Order of Oddfellows, N.S.W., a long-established
friendly society with a good name and a N.S.W. member-
ship of 8256, have been received, along with an invitation
to post-mortem them. The reports are, however, pre-
sented in such a slipshod way that serious analysis is
impossible. The table which purports to be a “ state-
ment showing state of funds as on 31st December, 1900
and 1901, respectively,” really shows, according to the
headings to the columns, the position at Oct. 31st, 1900,
and Dec. 31st. 1900. Again in the 1901 report the funds
of the Grand Lodge (practically the insurance fund of the
Order) are said to have been, for 1900, £27,662 ; but for
that same year they are, in the 1903 report, said to have
been only £23,074. In the 1902 report the amount of
Grand Lodge funds out at interest is said to have been,
at Jan. 31st, 1902, £23,833; in the 1903 report the
amount at that same date (Jan. 31st, 1902) is
said to have been £24,309. These and a great
many more eccentricities of the same sort pro-
bably admit of explanation ; meantime they make the
reports valueless except as curiosities. The best that can
be said is that the last report appears to be the best of
the three ; and if for the future the returns, etc., are pre-
pared on the same lines, effective checking and com-
parison may be possible. Apparently the society is
making satisfactory progress with the investment of
funds, a matter to which the average friendly society pays
little or no attention. On Dec. 31st, 1902, the total funds
(including those of branches) totalled £63,257, which
earned £1966 interest, or £3 2s. 2d. per cent, (with the
usual muddling this is referred to in the report as the
interest for 1892 instead of for 1902); whereas, when
Registrar Coghlan previously overhauled the State’s
friendly societies, the earnings of the 1.0.0. F. were, for
1899, found to have been £2 lls. 7d. per cent.
• * • *
Westralia is the only State in Australasia which
has anything important in the way of a Public Debt
sinking fund. The fund now amounts to £810,309.
About the most brutally unkind thing ever said officially
about Australian finance was the assurance recently
given, in connection with the new W.A. loan, that this
fund is invested in the hands of trustees in London, so
that no dishonest Treasurer can get at it. The assurance
doesn’t really amount to anything, for the dishonest
Treasurer can get at it indirectly any day, after the
Maoriland fashion ; finding there is, say, £1,000,000 sink-
ing fund in London which has been provided out of
revenue, he can borrow £1,000,000 and put it into
revenue, and thereby nullify the whole business;
and this will probably come to pass as soon as
the boom begins to fade. But it is a bitter jibe
at the instability of the Australian character when
a Government cheerfully acknowledges that it can’t
be trusted with its own money and has, in a manner of
speaking, issued a prohibition order against itself to
keep itself from drinking, and locked itself up to keep
itself from thieving. Australian Governments are be-
coming a bye-word in the way of thieving. Victoria has
prigged and put into revenue the Police Superannuation
Fund, and most of Turner’s sinking fund, the railway
accident fund and the railway stores fund. S.A. has
prigged the land assurance fund provided under Torrens’
Act. N.S.W., at the end of the present financial year,
proposes to steal all that is left of the Civil Service Super-
annuation Fund. Maoriland has stolen the sinking fund.
These are a few items quoted from memory, but there are
many others.
• * * *
When, in the Vic. House of 48 Rich Landlords,
it was proposed, the other day, to allow a trustee co. to
act for art executor in obtaining probate jointly with
other executors, the Gent One crowd sprang upon the
harmless and necessary idea as an unholy interference
with its own privilege of gorging on dead men’s estates.
Vic.’s journeyman Solicitor-General Wynne was more
virulent than most; conveniently forgetting that no trus-
tee co. had ever packed up its portmanteau and faded
away beyond the horizon, after swindling the beneficiaries
under a will, he made some delicate allusions to trustee
co.’s “ robbing the public ” and “ grabbing the
fees.” Yet, even if there had not been any Greys and
Harpers, and other disappearing “Gents One,” Wynne’s
arguments could be riddled by the hard facts of the
case. Of 13 trustee co.’s doing business in the Common-
wealth last year, with a paid-up capital of £394,422, the
average dividend was well under 6 per cent. The Trus-
tees, Executors, and Agency Co., of Melb., with profits
greater than any of the others, paid its shareholders only
5 per cent.; and the Perpetual (Melb.) paid only 2£ per
cent. The Union (Melb.), whose accounts to Feb. 28,
1903, were put under the glass the other day (8., April 11),
made a profit of £2848, less than enough to pay
4 per cent. ; and it was pretty clear that most of that
was made out of the investment of its own funds.
Allowing 3£ per cent, as fair average earnings for
their capital, the difference between that and the
sum actually distributed by the co.’s represents the
profit on the trustee business ; that is, out of managing
about £30,000,000 of trust funds, they make a profit
of something between £7500 and £BOOO a year, which, as
a “ grab ” or a “steal,” would be beneath the contempt
of the mildest “ gent one ”in the country. Of course,
the “grab” or the “steal” might disappear in the ex-
penses ; but it doesn’t. The expenses of the National
Bank of Australasia, by no means the most extravagantly-
managed bank in the Commonwealth, amount to about
£l6s. 6d. per cent, of the total funds ; the A.M.P. expense
rate is Us. 7d. per cent, of its total funds ; while the
average for the trustee co.’s is about 3s. 4d.—the Trustees,
Executors, and Agency Co. (Melb.) gets down consider-
ably under that. And the trustee co. is an expert in its
business ; the private trustee often isn’t. One of the
dark mysteries of the times is how the idea got abroad
that a person knows how to administer an estate
simply because he has learned the trick of getting off
with a five shilling fine the drunk and disorderly who
deserves to be fined ten shillings.
• * * *
Ballarat Woollen and Worsted Co. con-
tinues to pay its 15 per cent., while barely earning it.
The position compares with that of two years ago as
follows :
Half-year to Profit. Dividend. Reserves.
March, 1901..£2181 15 p.c. p.a. = £2249 £17,469
March, 1903..£2269 15 p.c. p.a. =£2249 £17,409
What has happened in the meantime The Bulletin
doesn’t know for certain, balance-sheets being unobtain-
able, but apparently the co. has gone on paying 15 p.c.
without quite earning it.
* t $ Ip
Heddon Greta Coal Co. (N.S. W.) is still unable
to show a profit on working, though its land sales now
bring in a comfortable revenue. With a mining co. in
the development stage nothing very accurate in the way
of a statement of its position can be made ; whether the
amount it credits to development is too great or little is
all quite a matter of speculation. At present this co.
claims £5692 as an asset of this sort, and whether it is
worth twice as much as that or nothing at all, remains to
be proved. Working losses (including the amount spent
on development) have moved in the last three periods as
follows : March, 1902 (four months), £lOB6 ; Sept. 1902,
£2253; March, 1903, £B6O. As, however, land sales
last half-year brought in £1685, the nominal deficit was
reduced by £825. What the deficit really is cannot, for
the reasons stated just now, be set out with as near
an approach to accuracy as to make it worth attempting.
» * * •
East Greta Coal Co. shows a gross half-year’s
profit (to March 31) of £10,252, from which £1213 is
written off for depreciation of plant, leaving a net profit of
£9039 on a paid-up capital of £lOO,OOO. A dividend at the
rate of 10 p.c. absorbs (apparently less income-tax) £4641 ;
£3200 is written off mining and other property, and £lOOO
off loans. The nominal surplus, after payment of the
present div. and the writing off, will amount to £4240.
After payment of the £lOOO now to be applied to reduc-
tion of loan, the co. will owe, exclusive of current
accounts, £19,164, of which £9164 is on account of the
Stanford Merthyr mine purchase.
• * • •
Broken Hill Prop. (N.S.W.) has ab last decided
on erecting a plant to work the new Delprat process for
the further separation of the metals in the tailings, in
order to get out a zinc concentrate. The delay has been
mainly due to an uncertainty about the supply of “ salt-
cake,” the chemical (mainly sulphuric acid) which is used
to leach out the zinc ; the co. finds, however, that if it
cannot secure a satisfactory supply it is quite able to
make this chemical from its own at-present waste pro-
ducts. The zinc plant will be capable of handling 1009
tons a week ; and, though no large profits are looked for
at the start, it is expected that economies will be
developed before long. The cost of the new plant will be
about £4OOO. At the beginning the zinc concentrate will
be shipped to Europe ; although the co. has made such
progress in the manufacture of coke at Bellambi (N.S.W.)
that it is quite possible it will presently attempt the com-
plete local production of metallic zinc.
• • * •
Associated (W.A.), sinceits overhaul by Ledoux,
has been going in for all sorts of changes. Underground
work will be done by contract wherever possible, and by
two shifts instead of three, which will naturally mean a
reduction of surface hands. The third bore hole from the
1050 ft. level of Judd’s shaft has, like its two predecessors,
proved a duffer, and failed to find the continuation of the
rich Brown Hill-Oroya chute. Knowing ones had pre-
dicted that the fault, in the country between the two.
properties would cut it off. However, as it has already
been traced without a break for 3000 ft., it is hardly likely
that it has suddenly vanished. The Merton furnaces are
not likely to get going for another three or four months,
owing to delay in delivery; it seems that Martin, of
Gawler, S.A., has secured the sole right of manufacture.
* * • •
South Kalgurli (W. A.), after undergoing eight
years’ tribulation, is, if effect is given to a recommend-
ation of the committee of investigation, to be shut down
till a further £60,000 is forthcoming. On the Rand, the
working capital requisite for a mine is deemed to be in.
the neighborhood of £400,000, and, as a consequence, n®
money has to be taken out of revenue for exploitation or
equipment; so that, once the mill gets going, divs. are
assured. In W.A., on the other hand, a miserable £lo,ooo'
or £20,000 is provided, the consequence being a long
policy of cheese-paring and flnnicking, which generally
spells disaster. In the case of the South Kalgurli, fully
£420,000 has been squandered in eight yeais, and the
mine is no nearer paying divs. than at the start. The.
committee’s recommendation is a testimonial to Isles,
proving that he was given a task beyond human power.
In the present state of the London market, £60,000 may
take a lot of raising ; and, in any case, the mine is, and
always has been, so patchy that holders of shares will be
well advised to quit and let John Bull nurse the baby.
• • • *
Ivanhoe (W.A.) continues to make great pro-
gress under Nicholson’s management—another instance,
of the success of a shrewd and energetic business man.
The diamond drill, operating from the 1600 ft. level of the
Great Boulder, has already cut some of the lodes in the
Ivanhoe, but particulars of values are not yet published.
The profits are now so satisfactory that it has been
decided to pay quarterly divs. of ss.—equivalent to
£200,000 a year. This makes Ivanhoe shares a good
investment.
• • • •
Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.) has cut the rioh.
chute at 860 ft. in Pomeroy shaft, and the average of the
assays is 4oz. When Capt. Parkes was in charge, he
calculated, after comparing notes with Capt. Rodda, of
the Associated Northern, that he would cut the chute at
700 ft., but the lode has been thrown a long way to the
east and this upset calculations. The Oroya is already
working this chute at three levels, and, as it is wide as
well as rich; the co. should maintain the present yields
for a long time. Additions to the plant are talked of.
Lake View Consols (W.A.) is still prospecting,
but the eagerness shown just after chairman Govett’a
visit has vanished, and the monthly footage has dwindled
to half. At the 1000 ft. level and, in fact, at all the lower
levels, the best values, in both lodes, are found to the
north when nearing the Perseverance boundary. The
reserves of so-called pay-ore are now estimated at 80,000
tons, or fully 50 per cent, more than a year ago, but the
grade is lower, being only 13£dwt. However, as the costs
have been much reduced, there is alleged to be a margin,
though it can’t be much. The Elmore oil-process plant is
completed, and has made its trial run, but the opening
shivoo has not yet taken place. The plant is said to have
cost double the estimate.
* * • *
Paddington Consols(WA.)isor,cemorein the list
of producers, and, during the last five months, has treated
some 4000 tons for 25000 z. So far the full 40 head
have not got going, but it is expected that, when devel-
opments are further advanced, the mill will run continu-
ously. The big lode has been well opened up at the
400 ft., and averages about 121dwt. Opening up at the
500 ft. is now in progress, and as far as gone, the ore
maintains its value.
* • * *
In addition to the W.A. divs. recorded last
week Queensland Menzies declared 6d. per share (£3300)
and Princess Royal Is. (£4000). Total April distribution,
£362,300 ; total for the year, £615,787. Before the year is
out the divs. should get in the neighborhood of two
millions, which shows that Bull doesn’t do badly in W.A.
• # • *
Great Fingall Consols (W.A.) annual meeting
was, according to cables, more or less a bear garden. The
issue of new shares was vetoed, but the iniquitous pur-
chase of the West Fingall was agreed to. It was pointed
out that the co. held 183,000 odd of the 200,000 shares
issued, so it practically amounted to robbing Peter to
pay Paul. All the same, the people who picked up the
remaining shares at rubbish prices and got £17,000 hard
cash for them must be shaking hands with themselves.
• • • •
Local flotation of Plant’s Day Dawn Gold
Mines (C. Towers, Q.) is still incomplete, though Towers
speculators are said to have taken over 40,000 contributing
shares. Doubtless it would go off with much more of a
bang if it were a shallower venture. A deep-sulking
proposition like this takes a lot of waiting for. Also,
when you come to think of it, so do the majority of
shallow ventures ; and even then they either don’t turn
up at all or only stay a very little while.
Ravenswood is at present exciting North Queens-
land mining circles. The steadily increasing output, and
improving value of the stone from the Grant and Sunset
mines, owned by a Bull co., has stimulated holders of
surrounding leases. The London is developing well, and
the Grand Junction recently cut the Sunset lode in its
No. 2 shaft. All these claims are on stone going up to
three and four ounces.
(Continued on pag« SO.)


DAVID JONES AND COMPANY,
High=Class
Hatters
Gent’s Blacky High-Grade Fur,
Semi-Stiff, Felt Hats.
10s. 6d., 12s, 6d„ 14s, 6d„ 15s. 6d.
George and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
r*f>}2 sE\
£2!
0*
1
The power of the Camera in settling all disputes on Prehistoric and Modem Art is here revealed. .
of Harrington’s Hand or Stand Cameras at prices from ss. up to £5O will produce fine pictures-—ro:rt ■ >
Groups, Views, or Snapshots—in the space of a few minutes which will give entire satisfaction and tea
arguments about highlights on the sky line.
Copy of New Illustrated Catalogue—over 300 pages—sent Post Free to any address.
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD., PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS.
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY, and 93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
“ QUID PRO ”
“I believe you'd do anything for money."
“ Well, money is always doing something for me."
The night that Burgess was acquitted (lie
was charged with complicity in a mail robbery)
Broken Hill held jubilee. At 6 p.m. the foreman
uttered his “not guilty.” A cheer was started
which ran quickly outside into the street and was
taken up by a hundred or more throats. A couple
of minutes, and Burgess was in the van of a
thirsty throng heading for the pub. over the way,
his arms aching from the hand-grips on either
side. Until midnight, wherever Burgess went
there went also a crowd, who drank freely at his,
their own, and anyone else’s expense. One hotel-
keeper ukased “ open house ” : he was generously
patronised. The celebration was kept up most of
the following day—then the acquitted one was
pulled off his pedestal and became once more
“Jack” Burgess.
The gentleman who sells half-crowns for a
shilling, and then proceeds to dispose of his
cigar-ash and other unconsidered trifles at a con-
siderable advance on late rates, has been having 1 a
rare picnic in Vic. country towns lately. Even
at Ballarat and Bendigo, the salesman achieved
capital results. The method of procedure is
similar to that adopted by Dowie, Torrey, and
other bounders —to work the listeners up to a state
of mental excitement until they are prepared to
part with all their worldly belongings for salva-
tion or a cigar-butt, as the case may be. Torrey,
&c., got away scathless, but someone set the law
in pursuit of the other American.
-* * * *
The ridiculous practice of arming Kanakas
in gaols with axes to chop wood nearly resulted in
serious consequences at Ingham (Q.) recently. A
KLanaka, awaiting trial, had been put to the usual
axe-work, but the sergeant, after reading the
report of the Mackay axe tragedy, decided to
take the weapon from him. Tommy Tanna,
declined to give it up. The sergeant recovered
the weapon after a great struggle, and, with the
aid of a couple of policemen, Tommy Tanna was
bumped into his cell. Later on, a tomahawk was
missed from the kitchen, and the Kanaka, on
being questioned, told where he had planted it.
“ Me want killem three fellow,” he explained.
* . • •
Westralia, where the Japanese fleet is still
fooling round, is trying to get used to the
Japanese naval cheer. First of all the bos3
officer present shrieks something that sounds like
“Bonzoi,” and then all the rest shriek three
times. The whole show is interpreted to mean
that the crowd that shrieks wishes the crowd that
suffers will live for 10,000 years.
* * * «
It was interesting to note the temperature
and pulse, so to speak, of public feeling in
Melbourne during the railway trouble. The first
day or two all was discussion, most of the
argument being on the men’s side of the case.
Then, when a strike looked imminent, a settled
gloom overhung everybody—the whole city
seemed to be awaiting the delivery of a heavy
blow and trying to furbish up some hasty protec-
tion therefrom. Turkey might be eaten up by
Russia, Edward VII. grossly insulted by Parisian
gamins, the House of Dull Landlords be wrecked
in an awful heap of blue ruin—nobody seemed to
care. The possible strike was the immediate,
dire, horrible danger that blotted out everything
else. Then the Argus told how Bent had denied
his rumored resignation and was waddling about,
grinning fatuously, and babbling of the ‘ soft
thing ’ he had on, and the public’s fear turned to
sullen rage against the ignorant, blundering
cause of the trouble. Next came the news that
Parliament was being frantically called together,
to carry the responsibility or to legalise the
Government’s illegal acts ; and the city, knowing
that Parliament was no good at driving a locomo-
tive, gnashed its teeth at the impotence of the
whole affair. Then came a stupid, miserable,
helpless waiting for whatever might happen, and
a broken-up inclination to drink whisky.
There is a mild
hammy flavor about
the humorless liter-
ature which tem-
perance apostles
take with their tea.
One of the veteran
items of this class
of publication is
the story of “An in-
digent old woman ”
—in Scotland —who
was supplied with
half a ton of coals
by “two kind
ladies,” whilst the
minister gave her
blankets.
“The grateful
recipient, a
few days after-
wards, met the
worthy pastor
—a bachelor.
‘Eh, minister,’
said the poor -old woman,
‘it’s a grand thing for the
likes o’ me to bide in this parish, for I aye say the
twa guid leddies keep me warm in the day-time
and the minister keeps me warm at nieht.’ ” It is
a very mild hammy flavor —so mild that a godless
whisky drinker wouldn’t notice it, but for those
who take nothing stronger than ginger ale the
little joke seems pleasantly suggestive, no doubt.
Teetotallers can feel quite wicked after reading a
pale-blue anecdote like that.
* * • *
Stipendiary Magistrate Payten, at Sydney
Water Police Court, has ruled that a money-
lender may break into a private house to seize
goods on which he has a bill of sale. Mr. Payten
quoted a Canadian precedent to justify his deci-
sion, but it is probably wrong. If it holds good,
then it follows that burglary by a money-lenderV
agents is lawful (the distinction between that and
breaking and entering is only one of time : what
is breaking in by day is burglary by night). And
if burglary by a usurer is lawful when the interest
is in arrears can the money-lender’s burglars arm
themselves to resist any opposition to their lawful
authority ? And should they kill anyone whose
is the responsibility ?
NO WONDER THEY PRAY FOR RAIN.
When the admiral and officers of the
Japanese warships now visiting Australia paid a
call at Kalgoorlie they; were entertained by the
warden and leading citizens, and the little brown
laundrymen and Japanese ladies of pleasure con-
trived to erect a triumphal arch of welcome. It was
a notable union of cleanliness and ungodliness. The
fact that a Japanese admiral should be enthusias-
tically welcomed by the Japanese prostitutes of
Australia is also a large, bright, glad commentary
on Bruce Smith’s impudent statement that it is
because of their virtues that Australians seek to
exclude the Jappy person. Once more, what is
B. Smith’s definition of virtue?
* * • *
The aftermath of Maoriland’s Jingo mad-
ness is the hordes of returned swaddies who hang
around the beer-tap, telling lies and waiting for
something to happen. Recently, an insane rumor
got about Wellington that the local American
consul was calling for men for a contingent to the
Philippines, and, in about half a day, the un-
fortunate man was inundated with swarms of
swaddies tendering their noble services at so much
per day. The harassed Yank was compelled to
put a denial in the press at last, so mighty did
the flood of offers become; and in telling the noble
ones that they weren’t wanted, he got off this
beautiful snub: “If we did (want a contingent),
we have men enough of our own without going to
a foreign country to get them.”. Expect to see
soon in M.L.’s front window this sign : “ Swaddies
for hire within in any quantities. Cause or just-
ness of any war no object, so long as the pay is
good. Whilst engaged, the hired will cut their
grandmothers’ throats without extra charge, if
needed.” What a breed of bowelless, mercenary
ruffians Bun Tuck’s foolishness has to- answer for !
• • * *
Victoria’s Bent Government is full of
bright ideas. One of them is to save the penny
postage on the letters of the police department by
making the police carry them. A letter on police
business is taken by the first constable to the
limits of his beat, and handed by him to the
“ cop ” on the next beat, and so it passes from one
policeman to another till the tenth or twentieth
bobby delivers it. Of course Policeman 11. may
not happen to connect with Policeman 111., who
should meet him, but who may be away fighting a
violent drunk at the far end of his beat, and
through these breaks in the chain of circumstance
the letter that the post-office would deliver in
three hours may not reach its destination in three
days. And the result of all this delay and worry
is that Victoria pays Id. less to the post-office
and gets back Id. less at the division of the
Federal surplus. The Bent Government actually
can’t see a small thing like that. Already letters
are going astray, because the policeman who is
carrying a valuable communication often has to
stop and combat a gang of hoodlums, and when
he emerges from the fray the letter and some
fragments of his uniform have probably blown
away down the street, and fallen into Fitzgibbon’s
sewer.
» * • *
The lines and trams of one Adelaide and
suburban tram co. are in such a condition that
when the people on the top floor dance about a
little they can always shake the vehicleoff thetrack.
When this happens (and it does frequently) the
driver swears a bit and then drives on till he
casually strikes the line, perhaps a couple of
hundred yards further on. It doesn’t make so
very much difference to the passengers whether
the car is off or on the line though. It bumps
just about the same.
Pathetic home-made sign on a Melbourne
suburban cottage: “Work urgently wanted
Man, active, garden, anything. Wife, wash
iron, sew. Three young children.”
A Hobart (Tas.) parson has made a con-
siderable row because the local Blind Institution
recently accepted £5 of “Tattersall” Adams’
‘ ‘ ill-gotten wealth ” —as the phrase always goes.
What a fuss the parsons make about the last
owner of a casual bit of gold ! The average
sovereign that dates back ten or twenty
years has been in so much bad company and
has gone on so many villainous errands that
it isn’t safe to begin asking about its Past.
It was last in the possession of “Tattersall”;
and if it is an old sovereign probably a bishop,
two murderers, a philanthropist, six swindlers, a
bigamist, several ladies of loose character, many
men of tight character, one saint, also publicans,
usurers, pressmen, Chinamen, liars, hangmen,
preachers and atheists—all had it before him. It
was probably the ill-gotten wealth of twenty men,
and the hard-earned wealth of forty, and the
blessed charity of this person, and the blood-
money of that one, and the price of several
women’s shame, and the benefaction which saved
some hungry woman from shame, long before
“ Tatt.” heard of it. And it will be all these
things again whether the parson takes it or not.
Probably two days after the parson has spent it
in the good cause it will have degenerated into a
fan-tan establishment.
CROOK RIDING.
OLD LADY : “ Well, I ’eard a lot of talk about
these men not riding straight, and after
seeing 'em with their backs all humped up
like that I don't wonder at it.”
HAD TOMMY HELD HIS TONGUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
V.
Whilst Tommy talked, a cloud of dust
Enveloped all the land ;
The brawny engine-drivers cuss’t
The State that baked their scanty crust,
And few asked what was fair or just
In this or that demand.
The hope of peace it perished fast,
Its passing-bell was rung ;
But sense might have prevailed at last
Had Tommy held his tongue.
Had Tommy Bent, who mischief meant,
The Bashan bull of Parliament,
Been sat upon, and made content
To hold his angry Tongue.
’Tis said that toilers for the State
Should never strike the boss;
That civil service wrongs, if great,
Are surely righted, soon or late ;
That comfort comes to them who wait
And bear their heavy cross.
Which may be true ; I cannot tell,
My song is simply sung
To state that all might have been well
Had Tommy held his Tongue.
Had burly, surly Tommy Bent,
The Bashan bull of Parliament,
Been set upon and made content
To hold his bitter Tongue.
Why did the busy, burly B.
These engine-drivers vex ?
Why did he glare at them, and me,
As though a Sultan proud were he,
And we but slaves on bended knee,
With bow-strings round our necks?
The old man seems no wiser now
Than when his paunch was young.
Let’s chuck him out and stop the row
Which comes from Tommy’s Tongue.
Comrades ! buck up with one consent,
Ere yet our righteous rage is spent,
And hurl him forth from Parliament,
This tyrant with the Tongue !
E.F
GLITTER CLATTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Clitter clatter, clitter clatter,
See she patters down the street,
Making quite a little matter
Of the lace about her feet.
How the johnnies chatter at her
As they hear the high-heeled but.
Clitter clatter, clitter clatter,
Be it bright, or wet with sleet;
I grow mad as any hatter,
On my heart have mercy, sweet.
Ev’ry time you clitter clatter,
It is shattered ’neath your feet."
Clitter clatter, clitter clatter
(What a petticoated treat).
“ Sir,” she says, “ I pray you flatter
Not yourself more than is meet.
Other hearts there are, and fatter,
That I flatten ’neath my feet.”
VIC.
HUGH R. M'O[?].
LYNETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Onward, through hours of red roses and wine,
Over a road smooth and shining as jet;
On with your passion-warm hand clasped in mine,
Swinging to red mists of sunset, Lynette.
Heads in the Paradise made of our sin
(So the world called it when first our lips met),
World by a mirage of faith taken in,
Come, let us meet the red sunset, Lynette.
Look at them climbing yon boulder-strewn peaks-
Ants on the mountains a-search for a God—
Making of white days brown, wearisome weeks,
Come let us trip where their tired feet have trod.
Down let us fly on the wings of the wind,
Swing to the music our heart-beats have set.
Clasped close together. The sin that we sinne
Was the ladder to Paradise, little Lynette.
QUAN DONG.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—•
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King-street, Sydney.*
A SIMILE AND A MORAL. —“What the
dustman is to the dwelling in which we live, that
Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of the
human spirit.” Thus writes a well-known medical
writer.*
What happened to Jones? Who knows?
Perhaps ’twas a cold in his nose,
Or maybe a cough, which he couldn’t shake off,
And denied him the joy of repose;
Quite likely he both did endure,
Which him to his room did immure,
Till a friend said one day, “ Drive your chills all
away
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD. -
of L ,o‘' SNES f. I M VBR
and Troubles.
Old Sydney homes in the market for sale :
Charles Cowper’s “ Wivenhoe,” W. C. Went-
worth’s “Vaucluse,” and James Milson’s “Ela-
mang. ”
* * * *
Curious advts., signed by prominent
people, which appeared in Invercargill (M.L.)
Times same day :
Notice.—As I have been informed that invitations have
been issued to friends in my name to Miss Fleming’s
marriage, I herewith beg to notify that such has been
done entirely without my knowledge or consent.—
Thomas Fleming.
Notice.—My wedding with Miss Jessie Fleming,
arranged for Bth April, will be a private ceremony.
Friends who have received invitations will kindly con-
sider same recalled.—F. F. Horman.
There should be some cheerful domestic row at
the back of that.
* < * *
Premier Seddon gave vent to an Eiffel
Tower screech lately re the inordinately large
number of stowaways landing every week in M.L.
from Australia. But it’s not the stowaways that
the big man is really troubled about; it’s the
hundreds who are flocking over (paying their
passages) as the result of his own boasting that
Pig Island is the Paradise of the Southern Hemi-
sphere. With prophetic eye Seddon sees that in
the near henceforth, when harvesting is over and
the winter sets in, there will be a hoarse cry from
the unemployed. Maoriland has carried a heavy
load of immigration of late, and now there are
fears that -the rush to get to the land of heavy
Protection and “disastroussocialistic legislation”
will be too sudden altogether.
* * * *
Melbourne's long-delayed Fever Hospital
is at last within measurable distance of its open-
ing day, and the local “Women’s Federation’’
BY INSTALMENTS.
CHOLLY: “ What, another wet night, old boy? You’d better give it up.”
George (whose temper is out of repair): "Nonsense, nonsense! Did you ever see me when I
had more than I could carry?”
CHOLLY : “ Well, no, dear boy, but it’s because you go so often and divide the load."
wants to know whether men are to have a mono-
poly of the management. It is a strange satire
on the woman suffrage vote of the Vic. Assembly
that Premier Irvine should dodge the question of
appointing at least two or three women to the
committee of a hospital for both sexes.
* • • •
The pile of offices called the “ Olderfleet,”
in Collins-st., Melbourne, built in boom time by
Mr. P. K. M'Caughan, at a cost of something like
£BO,OOO, was sold last week at about one-quarter
that sum, the City Mutual Life Assurance Society
being the purchaser. In the early 40’s, on this spot,
stood a wattle-and-dab building, kept by one
James Smith, and known as the Lamb Inn. It
was a roaring pub., frequented by stockmen and
shearers on their periodical “busts.” Next, or
very near, lived Mrs. Batman, widow of John
Batman, who died before he could realise on his
enterprise in Port Phillip ; and adjoining lived for
a time E. J. Eyre, squatter and explorer, and
afterwards Deputy-Governor of one of the islands
of Maorilanjl and Governor in Jamaica^
“ T.D.” : The new Melbourne eight-hours
memorial, a long, slender, granite column with a
glittering gilt device in the shape of three B’s on
top, is yet another unsightly testimony to the
generally inartistic spirit of people hereabouts.
The pedestal is almost the only good thing about
it. Said pedestal is said to have mopped up
nearly the whole of the subscribed £2OOO. The
thing on top is worth probably about (3^d.
Perth lawyers struck a fat oyster lately,
and hadn’t got to the shell when the mail left.
The case concerns the division of a Groper estate,
which was a very small thing, not worth fighting
about 15 years ago, when the will was made, but
worth many tens of thousands to-day. Three
brothers Clune—Matthew, John and Jeremiah
owned the place. Matthew fell out of a window
and landed on his head, doing it so much damage
—this is one yarn—that he afterwards pulled out
his whiskers and made a will in which he left
most of his interest to his brothers John and
Jeremiah, and very little to his children. The
brothers’ yarn is that he fell on his hip and not his
head, and that, if he pulled out his whiskers, he
did it out of pure love of ornament; also that, as
far as making a will was concerned, he was as
good as new. When it was suggested that
Matthew was treated as the fool of the family
and made to do the washing up, while his
children were regarded as encumbrances, Jere-
miah Clune pointed with triumph to the fact that
his own eldest daughter did all the “ killing ” for
the Clune community, so Matthew’s encumbrances
couldn’t complain if they had to work also. The
case was at this stage when the mail left, but
telegraphic advices show that the tide of battle
finally went against John and Jeremiah, so now,
presumably, the lawyers are busy making up the
bills of costs. But the case of Matthew, John
and Jeremiah makes a picture which Groper-
dom ought to frame as a reminder of old times —
the families of Matthew, John and Jeremiah
huddling together, eldest daughters killing the
mutton, fathers occasionally having a brotherly
fight and knocking pieces off one another,
and the alleged idiotic father who was
made to wash up. Also the quarrel over the
division of an estate which isn’t valuable through
anything that Matthew, John or Jeremiah did,
ought to be remembered as a pretty good
argument for a stiff land tax. Apparently no
violently progressive conduct on the part of
Matthew, John and Jeremiah was likely to
improve the estate materially.
* * * •
Rev. W. E. Brownlow, writing from New
Guinea to the pious Spectator, tells of a remark-
able conversion:
We meet with many remarkable cases of. conversion,
but one of the strangest I have ever met with came under
my notice on Sunday last. A man and his wife came to
me before service asking me to talk to them first and they
would join class. The man said he wished to be saved
from becoming angry with a man who wished to steal his
wife. “If I let my anger grow I shall spear him.” The
wife said she wished to join class to help her husband and
not take any notice of what the other man might say.
Apparently the wife wished to join the class so as
to help her husband not to be angry with the
other fellow. This is very comforting for the
other fellow, but what does the husband get out
of it, except the joy of putting his cocoa-nut in
the plate ?
• • » *
“ Ses.” : Touching those surf sensations
at Manly, and the cry for lifeboats, danger
signals, etc. There is one man among the early
morning frequenters of the beach who goes out
beyond the breakers with a knife between his
teeth, or in his hand,
“looking for a shark.”
Some fine morning he’ll
find one.
At Adelaide, a few days ago, an ex-cohen-
tinger obtained a divorce from his wife on the
ground that she had sought consolation in the arms
of another fellow whilst he (the husband) was
looking for glory in S’Africa. How misleading
are the sentimental pictures that artists paint on
the subject of the lone matron, whose man is away
at the war ! “The Soldier’s Wife,” “A Letter
from the Front,” “News at Last”—what droll
satires on the frequent reality ! Wanted a cynical
work entitled “ The Lieutenant’s Locum Tenens,”
showing the lady on the knee of a nice unwarlike
young man, reading aloud a letter from the dear
one whose image lives in her memory—with
the help of another man to recall it. A huge
envelope lying on the floor and postmarked
Jewhannesburg, would serve to locate the where-
abouts of the absentee.
» • * *
“C.P.” : Saw a guard slip on the foot-
board of the van one evening lately, as I was
riding on a Melbourne suburban line. It was
a narrow escape from serious accident. Out of
curiosity I asked him what provision would be
made for him by the department if injured.
“ Provision !” he laughed. “Why, my wages’d
be stopped from the minute I struck the ground.”
Nice Christian organisation! It may not be
generally known, however, that in cases of ship-
wreck wages stop the moment a seaman leaves the
deck. He drowns in his own time—not in the
shipowner’s.
“ Jane ” : Re a
“ subject that will
shortly have to be
dropped ” (B, 18/4/’O3).
Evidently your writers
found it too blushful.
Women don’t bathe in
a nude state where all
the world and his wife
may see, for various
reasons. Their collec-
tive husband is one
reason. Religion is
another, and there are
seventeen more rea-
sons. Know a man
who objects to his wife
being barefooted in her
own house in Queens-
land. She hasn’t corns
either. As regards the
religious aspect of the
case, I am an R.C. and
can only speak from
that point of view. As
a youngster I used to
be "put into my bath
every morning with a
gown on. If it fell off
my shoulders, or float-
ed over my head, or
otherwise misbehaved
itself, I was immodest
and had committed a
sin against something
or other. How I was
washed the gods
might know. I
don’t. Perhaps I
wasn’t. Have nine
sisters and have
seen one of
them naked by
accident. My
landlady is R.C.
Has reared seven
children. She told me
that ‘ ‘ Either before
marriage or after I
never kissed M‘Mahon.”
M‘Mahon is the father of her children. I don’t
know whether this last item has any bearing on
the case or not, but it strikes me as interesting.
“Bon” contributes his scrap to the debate
about people who bathe in the altogether :
I don’t know much of the figure feminine when bathing,
nor, judging by its appearance when suffering the torture
imposed by its conventional garments, have I any violent
desire to increase my scanty knowledge. But —and this
is another story—l once had the glory of gazing with the
gulls at the solemn spectacle of a full-blown archbishop,
“ bobbing up and down like this,” in the St. Hilda baths.
While taking the sun in a state of nature at the end of
a springboard, I noticed the entrance of a solemn pro-
cession in black. A dozen or so boxes had been booked,
and these were taken possession of by all save the
“star,” whose magnitude was too great for any box
to contain him. I lazily watched the crowd disrobe
from the vantage ground of the springboard. At this
stage of the proceedings a lay-brother, clad in a rosary
and a fine purple mole, emerged from his box and ordered
me to move myself to the other side of the baths. Re-
fusing to obey orders, I was told that fcrce would be
employed. Told the party with the mole that he would
have to walk the plank first, an invitation which was de-
clined on the paltry plea that he couldn’t swim. Finally,
I took a courteous header and floated low on the weather
bow, awaiting developments. They came. So did his
Grace, carefully hidden from the eye profane, from chin
to toes, in a nice new nightie. Followed by the First Lord
of the Life Belts, he advanced to the staging, did
a giddy little cake-walk thereon, and then 2401b5.
of Archbishop struck the startled deep with a smack.
In his Lucifer-like fall the sacred swimmer struck an
affrighted jellyfish amidships, coming up again with its
shattered remains crowning his head like a wreath of
nautilus on the brows of Neptune. But what I, the vic-
tim, whose head was violently bumped on the bottom
through the tidal wave which arose when one-tenth of a
ton of archbishop struck the water —what I want to know
is: Can I sue the Church, or was it an act of Providence
as per shipping charter !
• • • *
Charters Towers (N.Q.) is another proof
of the truism that voters get the representatives
they deserve. Though the district is fever stricken,
a vote taken on the proposal to abolish the noxious
cesspits resulted in reform getting beaten by 339 to
154 votes. About the same time the municipal
detector of smells had to give the local Council
notice of a nuisance in its own back-yard under
the windows of its own Board-room.
* * * *
There were a few days lately when it
wasn’t certain who was Acting-Governor of
Queensland. Lieut.-Gov. Griffith came south
to witness the investiture circus, and Governor
Chermside followed him, leaving with Hugh
Nelson a commission to act “in my temporary
absence.” Griffith beat Chermside on the home
journey; and then who was Acting-Governor—
Griffith or Nelson ? Nelson had a commission to
act while Chermside was away, and Chermside
was still away; also Griffith has a dormant
commission to act while any Governor is away,
and the Governor was away. There was plenty
of scope for a lovely row with two fighters in the
case; but Hugh Nelson is much too tired a
person to fight over anything, and so there
wasn’t any row, and, for all it mattered, there
needn’t have been any Acting-Governor at all.
* * » *
Queensland ex-Governor Lamington, the
rummiest noble of them all, set the fashion up
North with grey soft-felt hats. Now Chermside
is endeavoring to make the old Hinglish hard,
grey “ nail-keg ” the proper head-gear. He wears
it at all functions with a devotion worthy of a
better “tile.” It was a solemn sight at the recent
sod-turning of RockhamptomGladstone Railway
to see his Nibs, coat off, sleeves turned up, and a
14-inch grey plug hat perched insecurely over a
rubicund face, wheeling the initial barrow-load up
a wobbly plank.
* • • •
Birth notice in a Maoriland paper : —“On
March 31st, 1903, at South-street, Feilding, the
wife of J. M. R. Lockhead, a son. This is th*
last ane, Maister Editor.”
THE REASON WHY.
DIMINUTIVE MISTRESS (to new “help”): “I
have been fortunate in getting honest girls ,
and have never lost any clothing.”
BRIDGET: “Shure an’ it’s not very big ye are.
mum.”
“Zip”: Re the much-vexed question of
feminine modesty. A mother of six confe s. j d
recently to me her inability to explain why, when
taking a bath in her bedroom, she invariably
covers the looking-glass, and any photos cf male
individuals that may be hanging about the wall.
Said she had been putting the towel over the
mirror since girlhood, but had only acquired the
photo.-smothering habit since marriage. Also,
know a Potts Point boarding-house keeper who
has her bath in her bedroom because she can’t
bring herself to disrobe in the bathroom utilised
by the male lodgers.
* • • •
The suggestion to the Australian public
that they should find Hector Macdonald guilty of
nameless offences because, when in the Common-
wealth, he avoided the “society ” crowd is grossly
unfair. Knowing what we do of the infernal
snobbery of the British army and of the sort of
“society” it favors, can there be any wonder
that the promoted ranker, the man who had made
his way by sheer grit and courage and brains—not
by the cut of his stays, or his skill at bridge, or his
friendship for some magnate’s wife—shunned it V
Macdonald’s existence —outside of his work—was
made accursed by the snobbishness of “ society,”,
and he avoided it, probably, for no other motive
than that which makes a man avoid the company
of bad drains or of unwholesome dogs.
* * * *
The northern trip of N.S. W. State Gover-
nor in the Victoria is a beautiful example of
economy as practised by the Owe’-See Govt. It
was at the beginning of April that the papers
announced that the costly Victoria had left the
moorings where it had been lying idle for some
months, and was again going into commission.
After four weeks’ waiting for orders the vessel
finally started with Gov. Rawson, Premier See,
and a scratch lot of politicians for a ten days’
trip, the actual time at sea being about five days.
Once ready for use, the Victoria simply eats
money, and has to be stoked with bank-notes, and
it must have run the general taxpayer into a pon -
derous bill for this ten days’ burst. And the
party extracted so much misery out of that tem-
pestuous trip, and its members were thrown out
of bunk on their heads so frequently, that they
would almost as soon have been dropped overboard
to end their sufferings.
ADRIFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With drifts of bloom on the hills,
And drifts of clouds and snow ;
And Autumn leaves, and the rills,
And the Ocean’s ceaseless flow,
Old Earth was swung into space
In the whirl of wind and star ;
The sunlight drifts o’er her face,
And the moonlight follows afar.
It was thus your young love came,
And passed through my heart on its way ;
But as flame is drawn after flame,
My soul after yours must stray.
And ever amid the great wheel
Of the stars and the winds and the years,
Together our spirits shall steal
Through the drifts of smiles and tears.
N.B.W.
MAGGIE SULLIVAN.


t3S~ the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS
KLEINERT’S HOOKON
“"“Correct Hose Supporter
Sold only at the Bast Shops. T ° Woar wlth the NEW FORM CORSET
Ge neraf
Q
O
O
o
O' -
° s */ouuoO
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lacte, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
7s. 6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne.*
A SMART BLOUSE
Made of best French flannel, tucked and
strapped in the latest styles.
ALL COLORS 11/6 each
OUR PRICES SPEAK IN TONES OF
TRUE ECONOMY.
Write to us for any of your WINTER
WANTS. We can please you always.
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion,"
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
Dress Fftßßies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
t« ADE makkTHE varnished board’
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 10, 1903.
My Dear Arinl,—
Considerable rain, some grey impressive days
and then dazzling-bright winter sunshine have
been our happy lot in Sydney lately. The grey
weather was lovely—-wraith-like spirals of mist in
the harbor bays, like ghosts on their way to
heaven, recalled the Biblical “I will call my
people out of the depths of the sea.” The ash -
colored autumn sea frescoed with slaty, inverse
shadows seemed to sulk until the rain-drops
caused it to break into dimples—millions of
dimples. One scarcely liked to see the busy-bee
ferry steamers fly over that smiling surface and
even for an instant scar it smooth.
Autumn tints make the golden age of some of
our foliage, although our Sydney leaves haven’t
the reputation of “turning” to any extent. But for
living gold and burning red the trees and shrubs
around the Blue Mountain townships beat the
world. Blackheath in autumn glows like an opal
with color. From these spots come the picked
flowers and foliage (picked in two senses) that you
see in the florists’ windows, like noble displays
of gold and burnished copper and gems.
Chrysanthemums hold the floral sway just now.
Incidentally: I often wonder why no proud
mother of a golden-haired child has ever named
him Chrysosanthus. Perhaps a sense of what the
child would have to endure amongst the bad plain
Bills and Jacks at .school on account of such a
name restrains her Once, when I was about 18
months or two years old, I wrote a story called
‘‘Chrysosanthus.” The hero was a fairy who
lived in the sunset, and he loved another fairy
who abode in the sunrise, and they used to slide
their love letters from east to west and vice versa
on a single hair of Golden Hair’s crop. It was a
beautiful story, and I very nearly cut my wisdom
teeth with grief, when an old crocodile of an
editor returned it.
PREMIER IRVINE, OF VICTORIA.
Bridge (the game) is settling down in Sydney
for the winter, and promises to flourish like the
sweet briar, or the green bay tree, or Jonah’s
gourd. But bridge is not likely to get such
a hold in an out-door climate as it has, for
instance, in New York. An Argonaut woman
writer says that in New York city there are but
two topics which intensely interest society
women, and they are bridge and the reduction
of weight. No matter what kind of a bore or
a dunce you may be otherwise, you are sure of a
hearing if you are a good bridge player or if you
have a recipe that will cause fat women to lose
30 pounds in three months. Every woman X
meet in Sydney seems to be able to play a good
game of bridge, poker, or whist. Most women
decline to play for anything but the game,
although I know a family of daughters who are
quite proud of the fact that their bridge-playing
has relieved '‘poor pa” of the drain of their
dress allowance. During the current fortnight
they have been “bridging” every night in order
to get gowns for the Fresh Air League ball, and
thus assist sweet charity.
A young woman, who doesn’t know one card
from another, tells me that she was lately one of a
dinner-party of five, and, after the broiled butter-
fly meal, the host and three women guests sat
down to bridge. The minor fifth sat by, declaring
she would learn the game in half-an-hour. At
the close of the first game she decided to learn a
foreign language instead. The minor fifth felt
herself a nuisance, wandered all over the room
pawing all the ornaments, making comments on
the pictures, and finally settling down at her
host’s writing-table to scribble verses on the
blotting pad. She now concludes that a woman
should play bridge, or stay at home and study the
theory and practice of stocking-darning.
The blue ball gown which Miss Ethel Mollison
wears in second act of “Are You a Mason?”
always causes the wearer to be put under the
lenses of the women’s opera glasses. A long flight
of silver swallows adorns the front from left to
right—full-grown swallows and baby birds and
iust-betweens, and all beautifully poised. The
blue of the background is a trifle hard, but the
strong contrast makes the gown an effective one.
A grey tucked chiffon overlaid with lace orna-
ments is “real elegant.” Miss Mollison wears it
whilst she sits fancy-working. There appears to
be some honest sewing, glorified embroidery and
art needle work done during the progress of the
play, for in two acts the wormwood mother and
her three sweet offspring sit, clad in glorious
gowns, plying the needle and silk. Canadian
Ethel’s big, red, upstanding hair-bow, worn on the
left front, has caught on as a fashionlet. I saw a
whole theatre party of seven women wearing
similar erections in different colored velvets.
The stage mother of these birds of paradise,
Miss Munroe, has the woman’s part of “ Are You
a Mason ? ” As a combination of strict mother,
crab-apple mother-in-law and suspicious, rasping
wife she’s as fine and frightsome as a bag of
wasps. One of Miss Munroe’s frocks is an un-
common shade of red, a glowing soft dark red,
like a rose on fire, if roses are ever on fire.
A country doctor came to town recently,
sickening for typhoid, and was put into a private
hospital. As his illness promised to be a pro-
tracted one, his wife, who had been married a
year, wired to the coachman a notice that his
services would not be required after a certain
date. Promptly he wrote back, saying that he
had been with the doctor longer than she had, and
that he would not take notice from her, a mere
newcomer.
A prettily-dressed, pleasant young woman
called on the Sydney sub-manager of a certain
shipping company, and asked the fare of her hus-
band’s oorpse to Tasmania. Said corpse desired
to be buried there and nowhere else. The official
gave the information, and inquired if the body
would travel by the first steamer leaving for
Tassy. “ Oh, no ! ” was the cheerful reply, “he
isn’t ready yet. ” Then she smiled herself out of
the staggered official’s presence. After the lapse
of a couple of weeks the lady again materialised
in the manager’s den and announced, “ He’s dead
now ”; and proceeded to discuss the transporta-
tion of “it.” In reply to the manager’s query if
she would travel along in the same vessel, the
ministering angel answered, “No ; it would be so
uncomfortable for both of us.”
A feature in the “Situations Wanted” by
domestic servants these days is that the adver-
tiser is a “country girl.” The employer woman
has pounced upon that “ country girl ” so often,
and so often found that she knows no more of the
country than she can learn in a day’s holiday in
the bush about Mosman, or the North Shore line,
that the phrase is ceasing to allure. One missus
(she is on a charitable committee) engaged a
“country girl” who accounted for her lack of
references by the statement that she was only a
week from Jamberoo, or some such commercial
centre, and didn’t know her way about Sydney,
much less anybody in it. The damsel was
en £ a ged and turned out hopelessly inefficient,
but good-tempered and honest. One day
her mistress took her along when she went to
inquire into the claim for charitable assistance of
a certain family in Redfern. “The kind o’
families you help,” remarked the damsel en route,
“ makes me laff.” She reeled off a list of the
lately assisted persons, proved them quite un-
worthy, and said she ought to know, as she’d lived
in Redfern all her life and knew these families
well. Challenged about the Jamberoo fable, she
replied that “if lydies would prefer country girls
then lydies would get them.”
A correspondent:—
trip to the U.S.A. from Sydney were two ex-
Australian Governors’ daughters—unmarried. At Hono-
lulu we nearly missed being allowed ashore through their
fault. The captain had warned them they would have to
D® upi at seven to pass the doctor. At intervals in the
morning’ between six and seven, stewardess, captain,
purser, chief officer, and steward, in turn told them that
they were detaining the shore party, and all the satis-
faction they ffot was something equivalent to “My
troubles.” The doctor had passed everyone except us
salooners, and had mustered us twice, but the same two
were missing, so he got angry and was leaving the ship
after half-an-hour’s delay, and it took all the old captain
Knew to keep him on board till these women appeared
in dressing gowns. We'left them at Victoria (8.C.)
where they also delayed us 20 minutes trying to make up
their alleged minds whether to leave or not.
The latest thing in Paris and London for
drawing-room use is the sandal for women.
This fashion needs a special class of hose,
made with a compartment for each toe, and
spangled oer with seed pearls, rubies, and quaint
and cunningly wrought flowers, beetles, and tiny
goblins, of amethyst, opal and chrysoprase. The
sandals are dainty artistic creations of all manner
of designs. There is a special system of massage
for the feet, by which an improved circulation is
induced so that the warm pink glow of the flesh
shines faintly and beautifully through the trans-
parent hose.
Hats are delicious,” says a S.M. H. London
correspondent. “You wear them farther back
on the head showing a great deal of fringe and
puff. You first of all adjust your hat at the angle
that suits you, and So far as I can make
out from the remainder of the instructions, you
then proceed to do your hair. Which reminds
one of the question asked by one of the kiddies in
u S Babies ” wljen the uncle had dressed
the other baby, “ How are you going to get his
shirt on under all those things ?”
Two songs by Claire Newton are to hand. Their
attractive titles are “ I Told My Love to the
Roses, and “Hush ! ” The latter is an unusually
sweet bit of melody, but both deserve introduc-
tions to every harmonious household.
When Australians read that the King has dined
with Mr. Moses Dynamo or Sir Thomas Sham-
rock, they are prone to take the intimation as
proof that the hosts are in the highest society in
THOMAS BENT, VICTORIAN MINISTER FOR RAILWAYS, AND PRINCIPAL
CAUSE OF THE GREAT STRIKE.
the land, or that the kingly browse has at once
raised them to that pinnacle. But then Edward
himself is not in the society. There is a square of
English society into which not all the king’s horses
and all the king’s men, led by the king himself,
could break to admit the hosts mentioned.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Women suburbanites got their strike scare
when they learnt evening trains were off. Satur-
day morning saw hundreds, hanging on to dress
baskets, making for the homes of relatives and
friends within walking distance of the city. Other
feminine souls, with the remembrance of neces-
sary tooth-brushes and fringe-nets hot on their
souls, made a frantic rush to the shops where dis-
tracted counter hands served out safety-pins for
hose suspenders and sewing silks for thimbles.
The strike time-table in mind, and the haunting
thought of the desperate station struggle plaguing
the soul, shop assistants let decorum go hang and
kept their affrighted eyes on the clock. Chemists
were rushed by the wealthy for nerve tonics.
“A man, who has spent several years on far-out
Westralian gold-fields, gives his views on women
(not much more than girls, most of them)—
English, Australian and American, respectively—
whom he has met camping with their husbands,
latter, as a rule, being surveyors, engineers,
mining.managers or syndicators. The English
bride, says my informant (a German, by the way),
when she arrives on the field, knows less than a
baby how to keep a camp cosy. Left on her own,
she drags a huge tree from her wood-pile, boosts
its roots into her open fire-place, and jumps over
the trunk whenever she crosses the tent. A far-
seeing housewife would make her husband chop
firewood before he left home. Jane Bull, never-
theless, is as plucky as possible, and second to none
in personal refinement, innate daintiness and
unconscious ‘good style.’ The American girl is
a marvellous creature—an all-round paragon—
pretty, cultured, musical, capable, and common-
sensical all in one. She beats the English Rose
hollow in many ways, but the Briton’s posy scores
in feminine ‘finish.’ La Belle Americaine, says
Mein Herr, likes to shoo the men round in a
crisp, good-humored way, and all men don’t take
kindly to being ‘ bossed. ’ From a Teutonic point
of view, Mrs. Australia inclines more to the
Yankee type, so far as practical utility is con-
cerned. She is handsome, showy, capable, but
less cultured and intellectual than Auntie Jona-
than, and not so dainty and dignified as the pick
of British belles.
“The ‘Princess May Pavilion’ at Melb.
Children’s Hospital was formally christened and
opened last week. In a tew years time people
will be wondering as to the identity of this for-
gotten Princess May whose name became attached
to a public charity in 1903. Who was she ? The
daughter of the Duke and Duchess of Teck, and
the fiancee of a fleeting Duke of Clarence;
subsequently she married Clarence’s brother
and changed her name to Duchess of York, and
then changed it again to Princess of Wales.
Princess May belongs to the buried past. Father,
mother, husband-elect, and the Queen who sanc-
tioned the unhappy engagement—all are now
dead.
“The army of Yank she-scribblers increases
alarmingly. Every mag. has its variety of psycho-
logical and historic stories under feminine pen-
names. Yet get the extremes from profound
thought to c-risp salad talks in these columns.
Where, a few years ago, there was one woman
writer to every ten men writers, there are now
apparently twenty women of printable merit to
every two of the other sex.
“English visitors passing this way say that
Miss Maud Milton, the Helena of ‘ Midsummer
Night’s Dream,’ is amazingly like Miss Ellen
Terry.
“There’s a fierce war going on between Scotch
mealy materials and Donegal tweeds. The pur-
chase made by an impressionable female depends
upon the countryman who serves her. Had an
experience myself the other day in a dress deal.
The brogue of the salesman invested the Donegal
flake with all the charms imaginable. Asked to
be shown the Scotch oatmeal or thistle-down
tweeds, he turned with unutterable scorn to root
them out of a dark corner. Then he showed them
begrudgingly, never troubling to switch out yards
and flash the beauties of the fabric in the full
light streaming in at the door. Of course,
Donegal won the day, under those conditions.
“The local ’Varsity professor of music keeps a
mechanical pianoon hisown premises to familiarise
his two children with ‘the works of the great
tone-poets.’ The professor and his wife are both
pianists themselves, but time does not permit
them to pour as much melody into the youngsters
as they would like, hence the recourse to an auto-
matic substitute. Mrs. Peterson, who is the
daughter of a newspaper editor in Buda-Pesth,
claims to be ‘ Hungarian and Magyar to the core.’
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


NURSES PRAISE.
Nurses recommend Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills because they know of their wonderful power to purify and
enrich the blood.
Doctors prescribe Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills because they are made from the favorite prescription of the
great Scotch surgeon.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are not a common patent medicine. They don’t purge. They contain no
poisonous drugs. They are safe, sure, simple, stimulating, and scientific. They actually make new blood. This
new blood conquers disease and braces the feeble invalid with new strength, energy, and health.
That is why professional nurses recommend Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to all who are weak, bloodless,
nerveless, and sickly Read what these nurses say :
Always Recommends Them.— Nurse Oughton, who has attended hundreds of cases most successfully
in Newcastle (N.S.VV.) and suburbs, says : —“ In all cases of debility and anaemia I recommend Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
They act on the blood as no other medicine does. Both my daughter and l have taken them with the greatest benefit.”
Fine Family Medicine.— Nurse E. J. Coleman, Main Rd., Bulli (N.S.W.), says :—“ After4oyears’ extensive ex-
perience as a practical nurse, I am able thoroughly to recommend Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills as the most reliable family
medicine in nerve and blood troubles. They cured me of neuralgia and debility, and I always recommend them to patients.”
Uses Them Herself.— Nurse E. J. Edwards, Bonogan Creek, Nerang (Q.) says:—‘‘Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
cured me of hemorrhage and debility after the best medical treatment had failed. They are the greatest blood-builder
in the world. My patients have found them an invaluable tonic.”
From Retailers and The Dr Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. 2s. 9d. a box ; six boxes, 15s. 3d., post free.
THE GENUINE DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS ARE ALWAYS TN BOXES—NEVER IN BOTTLES.
ink pills for pale people.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A recent photo shows John Burns, M.P.,
the Labor leader, as quite white in hair and
beard.
Dr. O’Connor, consecrated Coadjutor
Bishop of Artnidale (N.S.W.), makes the 28th
R.C. Bishop in Australasia. The C. of E. has
had 24 bishops.
<l X.O. : Was Kingston ever a telegraph
operator? He talks in telegrams. “Australia
White. Kanaka must go. Said it; will stick to
it, ” How like a telegram.
N.S.W. Attorney-General B. R. Wise had
a most enthusiastic reception from the audience
at the Kingston meeting—a fact which the daily
newspapers carefully suppressed.
Henry Septimus Badgery, of the People’s
Reform League, was once Minister for Works
for 24 days, in Dibbs’s shortest-lived administra-
tion. He represented successively Maitland and
Monaro.
Premier Seddon’s tenth anniversary as
Premier recalls his maiden speech in the House
on Oct. 2, 1879. “I rise to say a few words,”
said the new member, and he then proceeded to
fill 19 columns of Hansard.
George Scarfe, the bachelor hardware
merchant and miser of S.A., who has no poor
relatives, and who died recently at the age of 76
years worth £750,000, did not leave a single penny
to the employees who helped him to bujjd up his
immense business.
One Hogan, a Caltowie (S.A.) laborer,
was choked recently by a piece of saveloy. The
doctor found a large lump of meat with a piece of
string attached in the dead man’s throat. The
careless sausage-maker who doesn’t take the string
off the dog should be prosecuted.
Malcolm M’Eacharn, of Melbourne, nas
been appointed local consul for Japan ; it entitles
him to wear much gorgeous ni 1 linery, and pro-
bably—to his order of intellect—is a solid consola-
tion for having been declared impossible for the
Australian High Commissionership.
The father of Caswell, P.M., now retiring
from N.S.W. public service, was commander in
the Royal navy, and
conducted operations
against Napoleon I.
He also fought in the
war of American in-
dependence. He ar-
rived in Sydney with
his family in 1830.
The retiring Caswell
entered the public ser-
vice as C.P.S. in 1847,
and has thus put in 56
years toiling behind
his bleeding country’s
inkpot.
The Neotsfield,
belonging to “ Dan-
gars’,” has arrived in
London after a voyage
of 99 days. In these
days of ocean grey-.
hounds and ocean
tramps, this item per
cable is interesting.
The Dangars are the only people In
Australia who load their own ships,
with their own wool and produce. The
original Danger was born in 1798 at
Cornwall (Eng.), the son of a small
farmer. In 1821 he came to New South
Wales and got employment as as-
sistant Government surveyor, the
Hunter being his district. In 1826
he took up 700 acres at Neotsfield,
near Singleton, the commencement
of his big estate, jin 1830 he was
working under Sir E. Parry, the
Arctic navigator, when that worthy was manager
for the A. A. Company. Later on Henry Dangar
took up the Myall Creek property, which is
associated with a horrible massacre of blacks in
the Thirties, for that crime seven men were hanged
in the gaol in Lower George street.
Frugal, cautious and canny are the Scotch.
Squatter A. B. Murray, who died worth £107,000,
in Adelaide the other day at the age of 88 years,
left to Mrs. Murray an annuity of £250 so long as
she remained a widow.
Two reputable Sydney citizens appealed
to the Full Court last week to determine a ques-
tion of interest in the settlement of sosee land
accounts. The amount of the claim was l^d. —a
fact which caused the Court, after a five hours’
argument, to make some unusually frank observa-
tions to the litigants.
Mr. Peacock and other Australian public
men who were presented with autograph photo-
graphs by the Little Duke can now estimate their
value to a farthing. At the sale of journal let
Blowitz’s effects in Paris autograph photographs
of the present King—signed when he was Prince
of Wales —sold at 16s. 9d. each.
“No man dare buy my conscience," said
Carruthers, the other evening.
No need to make a riot
About a fact so plain ;
The rq an who dared to buy it
Would never sleep again.
Vic. Premier Irvine is one of the most
difficult of public speakers for a reporter to
“ take.” Hedging the most simple and direct
statements with all sorts of verbiage and qualifi-
cations, it is necessary to catch every word to
grasp his meaning; and he speaks in a small,
throaty voice which becomes almost inaudible at
about every tenth word.
Died in Adelaide Mrs. F D. Beaeb, L ieut.
Gov. Way’s sister. Adelaide “society” didn't
know much of her, though she was pretty well
known in other circles as an old lady of a most
charitable disposition. “Society” knew her
husband better—he used to cater for most of its
ehivoos. “ Now which shall it be, caterer or
guest, one but not both? ” little Way, it is said,
used to put it to his brother-in-law when a
“ function ” was nearing ; and Beach always had
horse-sense enough to choose to be caterer.
Two old Australian families come together
in the marriage of the grandniece of Hamilton
Hume and a son of the Rev. Geikie. Everybody
knew the Rev. Geikie. Probably he was better
known in Canada than in N.S.W. lie was
especially marked in N.S.W. for his habit of in-
sisting that Members of Parliament ought to have
some education. Hamilton Hume, a native of
Parramatta, printed himself over a large part of,
Australia. Statues have beer built to him, and
rivers and townships called after him. He was
associated with Oxley, Sturt, and other notables
in early Australian developments.
A very ancient R.C. cleric is Archpriest
Sheehy, one of the very few remaining who
receive State aid. The archpriest is a Sydney
native, his father having been clerk at St. Mary’s
in the long ago. Half-a-century ago he was
appointed Assistant-Bishop to Archbishop
Polding, under the title of Bishop of
Bethesda. When the Papal Bull for the
consecration arrived Father Sheehy refused to
accept the honor, as some of his co-religionists
sneered at the humble position of his father.
In early life he was a teacher at old St.
Mary’s seminary, where he had as col-
leagues the late William Dolman of
the Freeman, and William Francis
Xavier Bailey, the noted Bishop of the
Free Church of England, whose law
suit with Sydney Morning Herald
was a sensation 40 years ago.
The oldest R.C. cleric in
or about Melbourne is Dean
O’Hea, now known as Monsig-
nor. The “ Dane ” was born
on Ist April, 1814. He was
ordained in Rome, and returned
to Ireland in 1840. He arrived
in Melbourne, in 1852, in the
ship Kohinoor, having as fellow
Eassengers Dr. Fitzpatrick, Dr.
hields (afterwards Bishop of
Adelaide), and Dean Hayes, all of
whom he has survived. The
Dean’s long life was very nearly
cut short in 1854. With Mr. Bar-
row, the first superintendent of
Pentridge Stockade, he went out
in an open boat to the Golden Age
in Hobson’s Bay, to bid farewell to
Gov. La Trobe, who was going to
England. The boat was upset and
Mr. Barrow drowned, but the Dean
swam to St. Kilda, a mile and a
half away.
An old Maoriland settler
waxed reminiscent lately :
I knew Dick Seddon before ever he dreamed of becom.
ing Premier or a Member of Parliament. In those days he
possessed a horse, which, while being shod, would always
lie down, and I have seen Dick, who used to bring the
horse to be shod, stoop, and resting his hands on his
knees, place himself under the horse's stomach, then
h ild up the brute until the last nail was driven in his
shoes.
“ CLASS” IN DROUGHTVILLE.
1ST. MAN : “ Doesn’t Miss Smith reoognise Miss
Jones now?”
2ND. MAN: "No. Smith got two inches more
water in his dam, last break-up of the
drought, Jones. Miss Smith is in the
big dam’ set, and Miss Jones is only in the
'water-hole’ push.”
PLUNDER.
The Sultan of Johore (just arrived in Australia) has
golden false teeth set with diamonds.
A burglarious possibility with the aid of
dentists’ forceps.
An old identity died, last week, at New-
town, Sydney: Mrs. James Bligh Johnstone,
aged 93, widow of the gentleman of that name
who resided at Crow’s Nest, Windsor. She was
the daughter of Captain Charles Waldron, an old-
time military officer, who settled at Illawarra,
and who died, in 1834, from injuries received in a
scuffle with two female assigned servants.
The late J. T. Toohey once presided at a
meetingin Sydney Town Hall to get up a testimonial
to Cardinal Moran on his departure for Rome.
In exhorting the audience to subscribe, the chair-
man said any member of the committee would
receive subscriptions, adding “And you all know
where the brewery is. ” And the audience tried to
look as if it didn’t, and failed badly.
Judge Hartley Williams, of Victoria, who
retires this month, mounted the judicial throne at
the early age of 38. His first case was the trial of
a golden-haired Flossie who had shown her
opinion of a faithless Johnny by putting a bullet
into him. The youthful Judge caused much excit i
ment by weeping copiously as he pronounced sen-
tence on the peroxided one. He grew out of the
emotional phase later.
Thos. Anderson, pastoralist, who recently
died at Westernport (Vic.), aged 85, had resided
on the shores of that bay since ’56, and in the
State since ’49. His brother Samuel, who died
in ’63, pioneered the Westernport district in ’35,
discovering the Tarwin River and Anderson’s Inlet,
the latter named after him. Samuel Anderson was
a contributor to the Cornhill Magazine, and in
the early ’so’s Melbourne Argus proprietor,
Edwd. Wilson, pressed him repeatedly to join
his literary staff, bub Sam. preferred the freedom
of country life.
Vic. Chief-Justice Madden’s knowledge of
history is probably fully equalled by his Wax’s
knowledge of law. A case came before him in
the Melb. Practice Court (30/4/’O3) concerning a
heritage consisting of—
-123-448 parts of a King’s share in the New River Com-
pany. When he charter was granted one moiety of 36
parts was held by “incorporated adventurers,” the other
moiety of 36 parts being held by His Majesty King
James I. Subsequently persons now called King’s share-
holders became incorporated, and the moieties were sub-
divided and held by numerous persons. Being real
estate, they are subject to entail, and to trusts for
minors.
His Honor: “ This part of the affidavit seems to be
chiefly interesting as a history of the later Tudors.”
Fancy James I. as a “later Tudor” !
Obit: Alex. Fyfe, at Preston (Vic.), aged
77. He landed in Melbourne in ’4B, and shortly
after the gold discoveries visited Singapore and
brought to Geelong a number of two-storeyed cedar
houses which he re-erected on the shore of Corio
Bay, letting them at good rentals. Later on he
owned a station near Peak Downs (Q.), and he
was member for Geelong in one of the early Vio-
torian Parliaments.
Chief-Justice Madden (Vic.) will be 59 on
Saturday and Henniker Heaton 55 on Monday.
Madden was a more or less wild Irish youth of 13
when he landed in Melbourne in ’57. He was
admitted a barrister at the age of 21, and was
Minister of Justice under Premier McCulloch at
31. In 1876 he fought a tough election battle at
Sandridge against Dr. Hackett, the present editor
of the West Australian, who was then a strong
Radical, but shrivelled into a Conservative under
the warm rays of the Forrest influence over at
Perth. Madden has been Chief-Justice for 10
years. His wife is a Stephen, of which, family in
the male line Judges have been made continuously
in Australian history.
John T. Toohey, the big Sydney brewer,
who died lately in the United States, was the
son of a publican at Emerald Hill, now South
Melbourne (Vic.). After several ventures, he
and his brother, J. M. Toohey, started a bottling
business in Harbor-street. When the Albion
Estate was cut up, on the death of Mrs. Terry
Hughes, in the early 70’s, Mr. Toohey bought the
ground on which stood Hughes’ brewery,
an old building in ruins. From Harbor-
street the brothers removed to the site of
the present brewery, and, by degrees, the
present enormous business grew up. To one
incident must be attributed the final success of
the To’ee’s. In the Dandenong gale time, 1876, a
phenomenal storm broke over Sydney. Gleeson
and Burrows had a brewery at Waverlby; the
stormwater swept through their cellars and
destroyed their entire stock. In their dilemma,
they made arrangements with the Tooheys to
supply their customers until they lighted them-
selves. The Tooheys did so, and supplied so good
an article that the majority of the customers
stuck to them. There were no tied houses then.
The “lifers” of M.L. Legislative Council
are fast thinning out, Whitmore, Grace, Morris
and Swanson following each other within a few
weeks. Billy Swanson, the last of the bunch to
pass over, was a picturesque character, and during
his declining years was responsible for some queer
doings when Parliament was in session, owing to
infirmity. He used to trip down from Auckland
regularly despite the protests of his friends, and
the attendants at the House had much trouble
looking after him. Swanson will always be
remembered (if for nothing else) as being one of
four Auckland members in the Lower House
(Reader Wood, Hurst and Captain Colbeck were
the others) who transferred their votes to the Hall-
Atkinson Govt, in ’Bl. It was said that the under-
standing was that a large sum should be spent on
roads and bridges in Auckland province; but
Swanson always strenuously denied this, and
averred that the compact was to secure the chief
planks in George Grey’s policy, One Man One
Vote, etc. Swanson even threatened to post the
signed agreement up in the House to prove that his
version was correct. Deceased married a Maori
chieftainess of great landed wealth, who died a
few years ago.
THE AUDIENCE THAT GROANED.
“Mr. Barton was received with groans, thus clearly
demonstrating,” &c., &c.— (Freetrade Press.)
Sydney brewer John T. Toohey, M. L.C.,
died, like his brother, whilst travelling abroad
in search of health. The Tooheys built up a big
brewing business, and achieved a remarkable com-
mercial success. Both of them sacrificed health
in the work. John T. Toohey was practically an
invalid for 20 years before his death. A sturdy
Protectionist and fairly democratic in his views,
he had some good influence in N.S.W. politics.
He was for a period chairman of directors of the
Australian Stab, but was not so successful in
the newspaper as in the beer business.


MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S.,
DENTAL SURGEON
(between Mark Foy’s
, 43 Oxford-st., Sydney
nnri Rilev-st.l. HIGH-CLASS
DENTISTRY at lowest prices. Guaranteed absolutely painless extractions by latest American system agr
success. Beautiful and perfect-fitting atmospheric suction sets of American teeth, giving the wearer ease,
comfort and natural appearance. Coraline gum plates, without springs or wires. Elastic Gum Coraline is in
most recent, up-to-date plate for mounting teeth. All wrinkles and hollow cheeks disappear. It is so natura
that it defies detection. For comfort, strength and lightness it surpasses everything previously introduce.
Coraline is perfectly tasteless, and remains wholesome and pure. Badly fitting plates remodelled on this new
system. Up-to-date gold crowns. Call and see specimens of latest methods. Upper and lower sets from *1 '»•
Single teeth from ss. Teeth filled, scaled and bleached. Country visitors fitted in one day if required.
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— In the ease of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
A SLIGHT MISUNDERSTANDING.
MRS. MULVANEY : “So ye be fond of drawing,
Mr. Boosey? ”
MR. BOOSEY: “ Well, I dunno. S'pose I am.”
MRS. MULVANEY : "And what may it be ye like,
drawing best? ”
MR. BOOSEY : “ Well, mum, I'd prefer a cork to
a wheelbarrow any day."
Extracts from two letters, for the benefit
of the people and the papers who have the idea
that there isn’t anything left of the drought now,
and that it’s therefore time we started thinking
about another loan :
From Broken Hill.—“ Two months of torture ; rain
threatening every day almost, and (save for less than two
minutes one recent morning, when a heavy shower
scudded by) not enough in all that time to wash the dust
from the roofs.”
And from Renmark, half way along the Murray, in
S.A.—“ The river is still only 9in. above its lowest point ;
the rise has been so imperceptibly slow that the water
has remained clear, and, from the up-flow of the sea
water, is still brackish.”
Poets who write of the break-up of the drought
and “the thunder of the waters,’’ are notified
accordingly.
• * • *
At a depth of 4420 ft., or a good deal more
than three-quarters of a mile, the Mt. Gason bore,
in the far north of S. Aus., has struck a flow of
artesian water of at present something beyond
half a million gallons a day. The flow isn’t, com-
paratively speaking, anything tremendous (Coon-
goola bore, in Queensland, turns out six millions
a day), but the deptli is ; it easily beats Dolgelly,
N. S. Wales’ deepest completed bore, at which
three-quarters of a million gallons bubble up
from 4086 ft. Also there isn’t much need to boil
the billy at Mt. Gason —the water runs the
register up to 204° when it reaches the surface,
and presumably it cools off a bit on the journey
up. The water serves a dry stage on the Birds-
ville track.
» • * *
“Jimpan”: Broken Hill shopkeeper’s
memo, to customer : “iDo not Call agen till
wensday has i ham gone shotting four the hollow-
days.”
“ Polstan ” : Re wild boy (8., 25/4/’O3).
A friend told me that a family living near Tumut
(N.S.W.) has a real wild man chained in a hub
near the house. He is a relative, who grew wild
as he grew old, till at last he had to be chained
for safety. He will not wear clothes, tearing
them off immediately they are put on him. Con-
sequently, Nature has provided him with a coat
of thick hair. His food has often to be thrown to
him, because of his savage moods. He detests
strangers, and howls and barks and snaps in a
doglike manner whenever any come near him—
which wouldn’t be often as far as I am concerned.
He got off his chain once and cleared into the
bush, but whether he ate anybody there, or did
any other damage, I know not. I don’t guarantee
the truth of this item, but the man who gave it to
me is the sole support of his aged mother, which
may be something in the way of corroboration.
• * • *
“Ed.” : When biking into Geelong (Vic.),
along one of the main Western district roads, a
week before Xmas, I passed a small flock of
decrepit rams. Five miles further on I came
across another flock of the same ancients plodding
to the City of Psalms. Asked the drover where
he was taking the wrecks. He said he was going
in to' catch the Xmas market, for the holiday
sandwich and the German sausage. A butcher
has since told me that, when highly seasoned,
boiled and smoked, you couldn’t recognise your
own grandfather.
* * * *
Life in the Far West—a telegram from
Milparinka (N.S.W.):
Typhoid fever has made its appearance here. The
sufferer has been removed to the nearest doctor, 130
miles distant. Until recently there was a doctor at
Tibooburra, 25 miles from here, but owing to the closing
of the hospital there he was forced to leave.
* * * *
At a backblocks settlement in the North
Island (M.L.) some time back a huge Maori man,
who had been imbibing too freely of the local
tanglefoot, and was apparently suffering from
snakes, rushed into the street clad in absolute
nothingness. A score of his own race clusteVed
round, but were unable to shift him, probably
because there was nothing to clutch at. The
services of a J.P. were sought, and rushing pell-
mell to the scene, that functionary balanced him-
self precariously on a tree-stump, and with awful
solemnity read the Riot Act over the naked
warrior.
* * • •
A belated item from far inland Westralia :
I spent my youth in N.Q. and
always understood the Ragged
Thirteen to be a gangjwhich
was outlawed, and numbered
anywhere between 10 and
30, and that its lair (which
no one seemed to know
anything about) was al-
ways available for anyone
“ wanted ” by the police.
Then I came across
from North Queens-
land to the Territory
in ’97 prospecting, and
on the way made in-
quiries concerning the
gang. The only man
who was not a very
great liar and who knew
anything definite about
them was Joe Keenan,
mail contractor. He has
been in the Territory practi-
cally ever since the Over-
land telegraph line was built,
and by his account the Ragged
Thirteen fizzles down to this :
At the time of the Kimberley
(W.A.) rush, somewhere about
’B5, men were flocking across
from Queensland through the
Territory to Kimberley in two’s
and three’s and half-dozens. At
Anthony’s Lagoon (N.T.) one
afternoon they had gathered to
the number of a dozen, none
of them well-equipped—in fact,
there wasn’t a decent turnout
among them. They were ex-
changing jeers about their con-
dition whenja solitary and most
dilapidated swagman bore down on
them, and on the strength of his
arrival one humorous wanderer
christened the party the Ragged
Thirteen. They were proud of the name, and when
they scattered round the goldfields certain loud-
mouthed individuals, probably by bragging of the ill-
deeds they hadn’t done, created a Bagged Thirteen Myth
which lasts to this day. Also a few of these braggarts,
by horse-thieving and other common enough sins, lent an
air of reality to the murky and mostly imaginary narra-
tive. The Ragged Thirteen, while there were thirteen of
them, which wasn’t long, plodded across the wilderness
in a not much more disreputable way than pther travellers
of the period.
• * •
Barbara Sutherland writes on two points
interestingly:—
When Bulletin artists picture a way-back settler he is
wearing trousers too short and a beard too long, and his
women-folk have enormous feet and frowsy heads. They
constantly lean against a shaky post while the pigs and
fowls run riot in the best parlor. Seems to me it’s time
these “ Steele Ruddisms ” were dropped, and we coun-
try bumpkins credited with using an occasional “h”
and “g” and wearing decent clothes. If we took a
Wexford-street “lydy” and branded her as a typical
Sydney girl, wouldn’t the long-trained, narrow-chested,
simpering misses be disdainful ? Vet artists and writers
take as a model a loutish Ignoramus from Lordknows-
where and mould us into the same shape.
And the bush. It is “ melancholy ” and is possessed
with a “ weird expectancy.” Pshaw ! Merely a matter
of temperament after all. The bush is glad, or tragical
as now, but weird never. Watch a box-tree on a calm,
hot day, standing still and dark. A breath of air comes,
and it is a mass of shimmering gladness, every leaf dances
with it. The listening of the animals! Is that not
natural ? To them man is an intruder—instinctively they
watch him, lie still and wait. Then they go on their way
content. You cannot trace an expectancy of disaster.
The stillness of the night awes the city dweller, llis
brain craves the clatter of traffic. A dark clump of
belars strikes a chill through him, but even there the
moonlight dances quiveringly in wee shafts. The day-
breaks, sleepily. A bird’s chirp scarcely' distinct. A
bleat from an imprisoned calf. A porcupine creeps lazily'.
But with the first glint of the sun Nature lives joyously,
sings loudly, but never discordantly. The bush is so
naturally glad that I am hungry for it. The rain drips
on the asphalt bv mv window, and I think of the smell
of dead leaves with the new raindrops clinging to them,
and wonder if the drought tragedy is not better than
this —the imprisonment of the city.
• * * *
“ Ku Klux ” : Sometimes I think, wot
with all the little bits of sects an’ sichlike, that if
the Carpenter s Son did come down ’ere agin,
He d be badgered so much by the different parsons
and their followers, all claiming His company to
their little tin-pot churches, that He’d take to
the nearest tree —and stop there.
IN THE PATH OF ART.
SHE: “ Wouldn’t you like me to paint your
house?”
H E: “ Well, Miss, it’s very kind of you, though
a coat of whitewash would do almost as well.”
“ Bunny ” : A few impressions of Broken
Hill. The absolute bareness of the surroundings
is appalling. Scores of square miles of gal-
vanised iron in buildings of all kinds ; allotments
bounded by wire fences, or by imaginary lines ;
outhouses mostly placed in the most conspicuous
part of the yard. Possibly the absence of the
usual kind of fence accentuates the loneliness of
the Hill. The dumps of the big mines almost
overhang the busiest part of the town, and a
sirocco could bury a good slice of B.H. beneath
thousands of tons of tailings. Women here do
not discuss servants. They talk dust storms and
the price of meat. Rain threatens frequently
but falls rarely—even by mistake. The price of
meat falls about as often as the rain does.
* • * *
“Shaker”: “G.J.M.” (B. 7/3/’03) has
probably been visited by a distinct variety of
“March fly.” There are four or five kinds,
ranging from twice the size of a house fly to an
inch long. The appearance and disappearance of
the varieties seems to be controlled by the
weather, one kind being entirely replaced by
another in a few hours. Sandflies also, north of
the Palmer, are so small as to be practically in-
visible, but, if you guessed their size by their
bite, you would probably say they weighed about
8cwt.
♦ * * •
“ Woodsey ” : Re fly par. in a recent
Bulletin : Here in Tamworth you are very lucky
to get anything from your plate to your mouth at
all. The flies will have it in the passage, and
very often you have to eat a few hundred flies to
get your meal. People get used to anything,
and three or four dozen flies are not noticed
here in the soup. In fact, through eating flies,
some residents can walk on the ceiling head down-
wards. At a dance the other evening a young
lady forgot herself, and went waltzing with her
partner up the wall.
I was watch-
ing a stum-
py-tail dog
in the street
the other
day, when
all of a sud-
den he gave
a howl that
any Indian
would have
envied, and
“got” for all
he was worth.
J picked up a
stick and rushed to the
spot thinking the dog
was bitten by a snake.
I no sooner reached the
place than the stick flew
out of my hand, and I
was thrown to the
ground. I picked my-
self up again and de-
cided to have another
try. I got down on my
hands and knees and
went towards it with the
. wm d to investigate. After a few
minutes search I found the cause of all the
disturbance. It was the fragrance arising from
a dead flying fox. No one can imagine the odor
these creatures possess, unless from experience at
close quarters.
• • * *
Dear Bulletin, — Verily Bananaland is
the home of hidden corpses, skeletons and un-
discovered murderers ! The saw “ murder will
out" doesn’t apply there. Quite recently another
skeleton, this time on Hobartville station, Rock-
hampton, and with large quantities of shot
(probably “ slugs ”) in his skull, was found stuck
in a hollow log, where it appears to have resided
for some years. This continual unearthing of
identity-less corpses sets one wondering every time
one misses a mate or reads a “ missing-friend ”
advt. which states that the long-lost person was
“last heard from in Queensland.’' Have often
noticed in these advts. (many unanswered ones
Kanakaland could probably account for) that
desired friends had been traced to every part of
the globe until they came to Mongrelia. Then
they apparently vanished off the face of the earth.
The creeks, scrubs, mountains, gullies and river-
bends of Mongrelia will be like a disturbed ant-
bed on Resurrection Day ! —6 xB.
• • » *
“ Deeby ” : Old Bawly S—— is an iras-
cible squatter of the old English squire order. I
was present once when a young blackfellow from
a neighboring station rode up to Bawly as he
stood on the verandah to hand him a letter.
Bawly stood glaring at him for a moment, appa-
rently paralysed with rage, then roared out, “Get
off your horse and hand me the letter. How dare
you ride up to me, you scoundrel! ” For reply
the black threw the letter to the ground, and,
riding off, shouted back, “Gerrout, you old, bald-
headed , I could make a better dashed man
than you out of ox-hoofs and a bladder of lard.”
Bawly stood speechless for a time, then walked
down to the shed and sacked seven shearers for
daring to look at him. You couldn’t get a black-
fellow to go near Bawly now if you were to offer
him a case of grog.
A SON OF THE LAND .
“Tweed”: Be child-sweating on dairy-
farms. Cannot see the least harm in children
milking six or eight cows each morning and even-
ing. Common thing round here, and children
seem happy and cheerful and undoubtedly attain-
ing good physical development. Compare children
reared in dairying districts with city urchins.
School is the only trouble the children have. If
they had less mental strain and more physical
drill and exercises at school they would be far
healthier and better-bodied men and women.
And infinitely better mothers. If hygiene, plain
cooking, elements of physiology, replaced such
subjects as analysis, history of England, and
general cramming for examinations to advance
the individual kid-whacker’s screw, there might
be some hope for the future Australian physique.
Geniuses are born, generally self-educated, seldom
the product of early cramming and abject terror
of school punishment. Seldom are they the chil-
dren of geniuses—
Where the city of the healthiest fathers stands.
Where the city of the best-bodied mothers stands,
There the great city stands.
» » * *
“Prospector” : Have heard bushmen
relate scalp-raising tales of attacks by dingoes.
Now I have travelled almost the whole °t *
Australian continent: have crossed and re "^ r °® se
the various States in all directions, and have
camped alone in the wildest and loneliest par s
imaginable; have often at night been surroun e
by scores of dingoes and have actually bad my
boots taken from the tent while asleep, but ha
never been personally molested. Also, re
belief that the dingo doesn’t bark—det anyon
molest a kennel of pups, and he will find
mother bark like a terrier on a chain.
“AFTER ’ARVEST.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We called ’im “ After ’Arvest Bill.”
The sort o’ cove ’e were—
Suppose ’e ’ad a pro. note doo,
Or p’raps the roof were cornin' thro’—
It might be in a hurry, still
It couldn’t make ‘im stir.
’E got engaged to Thompson’s gal ;
She stuck to ’im three year.
W’en anybody arst ’ow soon
’E meant to start ’is ’oneymoon
’E’d chuckle “ After ’arvest, pal! ”
An’ grin from ear to ear.
’E tired out lots of ’em that way ;
They’re mostly married now.
’Twas just the same with ev’rythink :
If someone shouted’m a drink,
’E’d say : “ I’ll shout for you— some day
Next ’arvest, any’ow 1 ”
A fool once lent ’im two-pun’-ten,
To ’elp ’im pay ’is rent ;
An’ ev’ry year that fool said, “ Bill,
Them two pun’ ten’s a-owin’ still ! ”
But Bill says “ After ’arvest 1 Then
I’ll pay yer ev’ry cent! ”
Las’ seedin’-time ’e cot a cold
As turned to pleurisy ;
I took ’im in to Dr. Bung,
Who punched ’im all about ’is lung,
An’ said it were as “ good as gold ”
(I paid the Dr.’s fee).
Then Bill says : “After’arvest, Jim,
I’ll give you that ’arf-quid ! ”
I only smiled, an’ says, says I :
“ P’raps after ’arvest, Bill, you’ll die ! ’
I knowed ’e’d never pay, not ’im,
Though die ’e might—an’ did !
NIL.
“ J.F.D.” writes :
Please save me from the fate of the rabbiting man who
collapsed when “ The Wrinkler ” talked about “ tenners.”
“ The Wrinkler” might add my scalp to his belt and
boast about the two of us when the next tyro dared to
contradict him. Give me the “ kip ” for a moment; the
abuse of the two bush authorities is too much. First,
“6x8”:“ The back country is the home of the ‘ two-
up’ school and the 'two-uppers.’” Is it? Ask any
habitue of the game. There is more money
“grounded” in a year at the two biggest Sydney
“schools” than at any dozen bush ones “6 x 8” could men-
tion. And almost every man in town knows the ins and
outs of the game. It is not a case of a crowd of shearers
who play once in three months being taken down by a
gang of sneaking, ferret-eyed spielers who couldn’t get a
crust within a 60-mile radius of the metropolis. “ 0.P.,”
in same issue of Bulletin, wherein “6xB” tells of the
bush spieler’s smartness, gives a very good character
sketch of that worthy. And because “6xB” knows a
few loafing scoundrels who cadge between shearing
seasons and who try in vain to regulate the spin of the coin
he thinks it impossible. A man said the world was round
and fools persecuted him because they thought it flat;
“6xB” is among the “flat” division this time. No
game can be rigged for him, his smart friends tell him it
is impossible. He ought to advertise when coming to
town. Re grinding the cards, I didn’t write the par.
with the intention of pointing out a new trick, but to
shoio the simplicity of the storekeeper, and “6xB" gets
up his pen to explain 1 As to “ The Wrinkler,” he talks
money. I haven’t £5. A firm belief in the laws
of chance, which was fat and lusty when I was
about fifteen, but is now a worn - out skeleton,
has left me without the “ necessary.” I showed the
paragraph regarding “palpable lies,” &c., to the man
who did andean do it, but he only asked me to shout,
and said “ blanky.” Yes, he hasn’t got decent boots,
I’ll admit; they barred him from a place where he used
to earn a living from believers in the laws of chance.
But if I haven’t £5 I have five celluloid collars, two pairs
of cuffs, four shirts (mixed), and a bull-terrier, and I’ll
wager them against anything equivalent in value
“The Wrinkler” possesses that the man I mentioned
will fleece “The Wrinkler” inside half an hour, with
“6xB” or any other bush authority watching in
“The Wrinkler’s” interests. The endless strand,
belt-trick, thimble-and-pea men “ 6 x 8,” talks so
glibly about are played-out, low-down thieves and
are never seen in Sydney except at Easter. They turn
up then to catch the crape-hatted man in from out-back
to attend the show. Where was that body of country
firemen from, who were fleeced by a thimble-and-pea man
at the Agricultural Grounds a year back? It wasn’t
Narrandera, was it? And I wouldn’t be a fine fat pigeon
at any of the country gaffing schools that “6xB” men-
tions. lam passed the plucking stage. It’s nothing to
boast of, certainly, but I have had a wider and more
varied experience among smart spielers (not thimble-and-
pea men and country takedowns) than “6xB” and “The
Wrinkler” and “The Wrinkler’s” dog thrown in.


Yes, music hath charms etc., but if
you’d heard some of the music on cheap, trashy
mouth organs, you’d think otherwise. Now for a
well-deserved advt. The old firm of Allan and
Go., of Collins-street, Melbourne, are handling a
first class set of organs, called the “Crackajack’s,”
in four styles. No. 1 is a hummer, the
“Professional” 40 reeds, sells at 4s. 6d.—not too
high a price for a laster. No. 2 is the “Crack-
ajack Senior,” 20 reeds, at 2s. Gd. No. 3 “ Crack,
ajack Junior ” has also 20 reeds, but is a trifle
smaller in sizg; and No. 4 the “Boss Cracker”
at a bob a time is absolutely the best Vamper on
the market. Allan’s will send one per post on
receipt of stamps.*
We love the dear old Union Jack,
We love the Motherland,
Our help she wijl not ever lack,
But by her side we’ll stand ;
In peace or war, what it may be,
No love could e’er be truer,
We’ll build our health from colds so fee.
On Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
A Drink !
A Tonic!
A Medicine !
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call for WOLFE’S Schnapps and make sure that
you take nothing else.
E “Fx.& R.” WATCH.
The most extraordinary Watch of the age.
The Movements are on the Lever principle.
They have Brequet Overcoil Balance Springs.
They have extra Counter-sunk Jewelling.
They are Jewelled in 15 holes.
They have Compensated and Adjusted Balances.
They have Jewel Ruby Rollers.
They are Dust-proof and Watertight.
The cases screw together or close in the ordinary way.
They are specially made to stand hard riding and
knocking about, and go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
for two years (breakages excepted).
They are 25/6 in Open-face Metal Cases(7 Jewels).
They are 30/- in Open-face Metal Cases (15 Jewels).
They are 42/- in Silver Open-face Cases (15 Jewels).
They are 50 - in Silver Hunting Cases.
They are made in every style of case.
We also stock the same movement in Gold Cases.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
“ Right-Angle ” writes re mutton-birds :
I have seen Chatham Islanders pulling the greasy
squeaker out of his hole. At certain periods the natives
go catching these birds, which are cured and exported
When the bird is dragged from the hole, the islander
splits the upper flange of the beak and forces the lower
one through it. Why, is not clear; but it is con-
sidered desirable to keep the bird, if possible, alive
even unto the final disembowelling process. At the
camp a big fire is lighted and the men squat
round it and start plucking the birds alive, the
victims being, at intervals, tapped gently on the
head with a light piece of wood, presumably to entice
blood in that direction. When the miserable squawking
of the birds has died ouc the quivering bodies are thrown
in a heap. The different expeditions meet at Waitangi,
where the curing takes place. There is something of a
religious function about the whole of this catching and
curing business. About 15 miles off the Wharekauri
coast are three conical rocks, known as “ Tuawahine ”
(Three Sisters), and about birding time the islanders (in
whaleboats, provided by Maoriland Govt.) proceed to
these rocks, where some mysterious ceremony is pre-
sumably performed. No white man is ever allowed
to be of the party; and I have vainly sought permis-
sion to go. One reason for this expedition, however, is
the catching of young albatrosses, which are cured in
their own fat and barrelled for export. The Chatham
Islander is a surreptitious idolator, wrapped, during
birding time, in impenetrable surliness.
* • * *
“ Kaylee ” : They’re pretty sanguine in
the Northern areas of S. A. that the drought has
broken up. A sheep-farmer, who hasn’t touched
wheat-growing for 20 years, told me yesterday
that he was going in for the business as a sort of
side-show.
* * * •
“ The Prince ” : Be some remarks awhile
ago, in The Bulletin, about giant logs. There is
still a legend up North about a cedar log rafted
down the Maroochy River (Q.) years ago. It was
20ft. long, and, when rolled into the water, it
floated end up because the breadth of it was
longer than the length, and it was taller crossways
than lengthways.
* • * *
“Neens”: At Douglas Park, N.S.W., I
once found a snake’s cast-skin without an opening
in it. How the snake got out is a mystery. The
head was not broken in any way. Can any
ULTIMATUM.
The staff of the Muddy Creek Chronicle presents
the editor-manager-proprietor with a demand
for union wages.
Bulletin reader explain? [The snake first de-
taches the skin from his top jaw ; with his “ lips ” ;
then from the bottom jaw ; then he rubs his head
and his body against some projection, gradually
skinning himself. The skin often comes off entire.
—Ed. B.j
NOT BIG ENOUGH FOR THE POT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Ho ! that is where my ducks go, is it!
Yah 1 that’s the way my ducks go, is it!
Old ’ard, Hogan ! by me soul
What y’ plantin’ in that hole t"
"Seeds 1 seeds of green peas, and pie-melons
Wheat an’ barley an’ water melons ;
That’s what, neighbor, by me soul,
I am plantin’ in this hole ! ”
Lie ! lie 1 y’ thief 1 y’ve killed my young ducks 1
But now I’ve caught y’ 1 them’s my young ducks 1
Fetch the po-leece ! we shall see
What y’ll get for robbin’ me 1 ’’
“ O 1 bring the po-leece if it suits y’ I
And bring the soldiers if it suits y’ 1
Come and fight me if y’r game,
Put my seeds in just the same.
"Monday, I sowed ’em, young ducks eat ’em ;
On Tuesday, sowed more, young ducks eat ’em ;
Plant ’em this time, ducks an’ all—
Becos for cookin’ they’re too small 1 ’’
ALONE.
An Into rview with George Giddens.
It was immediately after the matinee that I saw
George Giddens, the London veteran, with the
grease paint still imbedded in the pores of his
nose. Over this nose he smiled with his eyes,
then he said, very calmly and collectedly :
“ Your climate is beautiful, and your harbor is
a dream. A beautiful dream of a Sunday on
a yacht. I love these sunshiny days, these
blue skies, these comfortable nights. And Hose
Bay ! Oh, that heavenly spot ! Made for moon-
light walks with the temperature at mild 65. You
can take your boots off and sit with your feet in
the warm soft sand. ISo much healthier and
pleasanter than being in a stuffy room side by
side on the antimacassar.
*'l love Nature. I love wild country and its
bull-dog ants. I love watching the birds, the
lizards running about. I get back where there
are no ants, and I take a long steady look at the
birds through my opera-glasses. There’s one cove
rt Rose Bay with a black back and white chest, a
cove that hops about and cocks his tail. He’s got
a lovely note. We can’t spend the winter in
Lngland with Nature. Dirty, dingy London !
Snowstorms, black mud, frosts, influ., fogs and
darkness ! And the only bright feature—flying
steps on the stairs ! —and Arthur Roberts dashing
in breathless, exclaiming : ‘ Hide me, Giddens,
the police are after me! I’ve stolen Wilson
Barrett s gold baseball boots and short Roman
chemise. Or the other brother-actor who comes
in very quietly later in the evening, sits down
with a self-satisfied smile, and remarks unctu-
ously : ‘ Oh, Giddens, it’s so soothing. Been
down in a cellar all day. I’m quite drunk, and
it hasn’t cost me a farthing ! ’
mu‘ Yes ’ 1 saw Willoughby play ‘On and Off.’
I hat was my piece at the Vaudeville. He’s an
energiser of the new school. I remember one old
actor who used to stop in the middle of arny scene
or any speech to reprimand an audience. His
Othello would come to the audience this way.
Farewell the tranquil mind, farewell content.
(To gallery) : Put cut those pipes 1
Farewell the plumed troop and the big wars that make
ambition virtue. O Farewell 1
(To gallery) : Stop eating those d d pea-nuts !
Farewell the neighing steed.
(Gallery voice interrupting) : Bah !
Actor (to gallery) : If that man will meet me outside
after the performance I’ll put a head on him in five
seconds.
Yes, he belonged to the very old school: the
school of the old Adelphi in Ben Webster’s time
where the regular catechism for the applicants
was-U) Are you over 40 ? (2) Do you wear false
teeth ! (3) Have you a dress suit? (4) Do you
wear a wig ? (5) Did you return the last shilling
you borrowed ? The applicant had first to suc-
cessfully answer these questions before he could
secure employment. Once through he was an
actor-r-r-r, who strode and posed and rolled his
rs, and frowned and glowered; and hatched dark
plots with a deep down voice, deep down in the
stomach. And off the stage, in some little back
parlor with a brother rogue or vagabond he
poured warm gin into the deep down voice,’and
<p3nly deplored the fact that ‘a new sohool is
c,rising, brother—a school that allows gentlemen
to come into the profession ! ’
Ihe old actress of the old school was just as
stereotyped as her brother. There was one old
lady—l forget her name; anyhow, she used to
play third old woman in my young days. And
she never could forget having once
played the Lady Tragedy Queen at
some provincial theatre. She couldn’t
even forget it when she abandoned
the boards and invested her savings
in a ‘stewed eels and tripe shop.’
No ! even behind the counter she was
still the Lady Tragedy Queen 1 Some
urchin would suddenly shoot through
the doorway, as if fired in with a
gun, bump up against the counter,
snuffle and say, ‘Two penn’orth o’
stooed eels, an* plenty o’ gravy me
mother sez.’ The Lady Tragedy
Queen would raise her eyebrows and
remark in deep tragio tones—‘Say ye
so, boy ? ’ And turning round she would
get the two penn’orth o’ stooed eels,
and place it before the nipper with ‘ Then
have at ye ! Two pence ! I thank ye 1’
“I regard an audience as one man
or one woman. Sometimes I’ve gone on
and felt there was somebody antagonistic
to me. I felt constrained, nervous
uneasy. Something like Beerbohm Tree
felt one night when Gilbert was in
iiont Gilbert who had said of some-
body’s Hamlet that it was funny without being
vulgar. Iree is a most excitable chap mad
some say. He’s a German Jew. He doesn’t
love praise, nor does he worship it. He eats
it. Hearing that Gilbert was in front he sent
round for him between the acts. When Gilbert
entered the dressing-room, he saw Tree sitting
in an arm chair perspiring most profusely. Tree
began fishing for a compliment. ‘ How do you
like the play, Mr. Gilbert ’ ? Gilbert, knowing
that Iree wanted praise, talked about everything
but the play. This worked the excitable Tree
up to a perfect fever heat. He perspired in
streams. He mopped his forehead, his wrists
his arms, he undid his shirt-he mopped his
chest, his neck ! Then for the tenth time, Tree
aching for Gilbert to say something, dying for
Gilbert to say anything, asked ‘ How do you like
the play ? Gilbert rose in silence and went out
Ihen he thrust in his head and said in a quiet
bored voice, ‘By the way, Tree, your skin acts
well.
“ 1 hay e gtme through all the vicissitudes of the
stage. In my very early days I experienced all the
ups and downs of the struggling young actor.
But when one is 19, getting a salary 6f 30s a week
is a jolly lark—that is if you get the 30s. regu-
larly Our manager worked his company on what
was known in those days as the ‘ Ortree system ’
That is, the company might sleep at an hotel or
it might sleep up a tree. Any week that the
company only earned salt, we only got 2s «d on
account. If we did well, we got our 305., but no
arrears. We d have starved, my two pals and I
only that one of us had a wealthy father who sent
him remittances. Our manager squandered nearly
all his money in betting, and choused everybody
Of course, he was constantly running the gauntlet*
GEORGE GIDDENS,
Leading Comedian in “Are You a MasonT
Photo, by Hana, Strand, London.
because in those days they could seize a man him-
self for debt. One night this manager was play-
ing lead in light comedy. He was on the stage,
in the middle of the performance. I was at the
wings in the character of Parker, the butler, wait-
ing for my cue. Suddenly on the left there was a
frightful rumpus, a thundering at the stage door.
I ran upon the stage with an impromptu ‘ May I
speak to you, sir—may I whisper?’ The manager,
electrified by the uproar without, answered:
‘Yes, Parker.’ I whispered: ‘The bailiffs are
trying to get in.’ The manager walked swiftly to
the right and said : ‘ Tell your mistress, Parker,
that I have gone out and will not return.’ And
with that he climbed into the flies, ascended to
the roof, got upon a neighboring house, galloped
alonsr the terrace roofs, and escaped.
“When the smash came to our manager I
parted from my two pals. I bought a knapsack
and set out to walk across the Yorkshire moors to
Scarborough. I had some bread and biscuits in
my knapsack ; and I had 3d. in my pocket. That
was the sum total of my worldly wealth. The
first night I camped out under a haystack. I had
a good rest with my knapsack for a pillow and
the hay that I pulled over me for a coverlet. It
was summer time and fine, and I didn’t mind the
mice that kept running over me. One cannot
have everything one’s own way in this world. In
the morning I got early upon my way, but I
hadn’t gone far when, coming to a turn in the
road, I saw a big tank hewn out of the rock and
full of water. It was about four o’clock. Nobody
was visible. Nothing was stirring. I whipped
off my clothes and dived in. The trough was
fully half the size of this room, and it was some
five feet deep, so I had a swim to my heart’s con-
tent. I was just getting out of the tank when I
was surprised by a startled scream, and I saw a
milk-maid coming round the corner with her pail.
She sort of looked away, and then sort of looked
at me and laughed. I said to her, ‘Don’t be
frightened ; you can go by. I won’t get out.’ So
she went by shyly with her head turned aside and
sort of looking at me out of the corner of
her eye while I kept down under the water.
She walked slowly until she reached a hedge
and then, with a last look back and a little laugh,
she disappeared. When I had dressed myself, I
saw that my way lay in the direction the girl had
taken. Have you noticed through life how often
the man’s way does lie in the direction the girl has
taken. Some two hundred yards along, I saw her
coming across a field towards me. She came up,
looking as sweet as a peach and as gentle as a
whisper. She looked me over with her kind,
brown eyes, then she asked ine to have a drink of
milk. I gratefully accepted. I sat down, took
my biscuits out of my knapsack, and made my
breakfast with the help of the rich new milk that
the girl poured into the lid of her pail. She made
me tell her all about myself, and I told her every-
thing except that I had no money. I offered her
my threepence for the milk. Bub she wouldn’t
have it. When I insisted, she pushed my hand
away from her, drew back and shook her head.
Doubtless her instinct divined the truth. Ah ! I
was only 19 then ! I wonder what has become of
her !
“The social status of actors and actresses in
London is the very best. In fact, I think there
is too much social business. The day is long past
since people looked askance at actors and actresses.
Ours is now recognised as one of the great pro-
fessions, and no super, is welcome now, no
beginner in the ranks, unless he can look a gentle-
man and is one. You see, if a man becomes a
barrister, he has to wait years and years without
earning a shilling. But if he is a good-looking
man with any talent at all he soon gets a chance
to distinguish himself upon the boards.
“No, I can’t sing, but I do.
“I think that the business of the theatre is to
amuse. Ido not believe at all in plays like ‘ The
Resurrection.’ It is sordid, gruesome, miserable.
I think it was Arthur Roberts who said that, as a
play, ‘ The Resurrection ’ is the dreariest wretch
lie ever set eyes on.”
S. A. MILLS.
Sufficient unto the biscuit is the weevil
thereof.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ko notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken oj
communications insufficiently glam) ed. Aame and
address must appear on MS. Ao liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS, be returned unless stamps (0/ any
State) accompany.
K.A.H. (Bendigo): “Night Song” about good
enough. “ Ramble ” and “ Sea ” rejected. Please attach
full name and address in future A. P. Roge.s : Hardly
good enough... .Grace H. : Lacks lightness and spirit....
A.B.C. : Sorry not suitable. Treatment rather dull
1 .L.T. : Embodies a good point, but otherwise unsatis-
factory Jeanneton : Has musical quality, but no
literary value... .Auriga : Denouement too preposterous.
Jim P.: A great improvement on the last. You will
probably “arrive” 500 n.... Isobel G. : Hasn’t strength
enough for print.. ..E. Francis L. : Seem to have some
poetical gift, but you can’t (or don’t) spell, and it’s too
hard to read y0u..... .Wanda : Cheap cynicism
O.K. : Your work isn’t O.K. by any means Xavier:
Can t make out what you are driving at.. ..Roma: Hardly
well enough put together Clare : Some force, but,
on the whole, doesn’t suit.... Bertha W. : Ambitious
effort; dead failure... .V.H. ’ Veak and wobbly....
Spimfex : “ Outback ” will do.. ..Brunei: Too extrava-
gantly foolish. The 4d. flue arising through your dashed
carelessness in insufficiently stamping your letter was
another extravagance Pointsman : Poor verse, and 2d.
to pay for insufficient postage. Can’t you Victorians re-
member that your penny postage appli'es to Vic. 0n1y....
I .0.0.: IS one up to mark. “ Canker” is the best of the
collection.. ..Jaybell: Dog tale is unintelligible humor;
your copy doesn’t keep to its old standard M.A.C.
(Hobart): Can t spare a tenth that space for such a
small row.. E.F.L. (Q.): Very poor performance
Milo: Ambition” no good.. ..G.G.McC. : Will print
Stanza.”... .Young-’Un : “Love Birds” good. Don’t
care for ‘SongUnsung.”. .Amiens : “Sonnet”depressing.
... V.K.: Too slight for print.... Wimmera : Balanced for a
space on the basket’s edge, but finally fell in. You’re
improving, though... .James B. : You were “surprised
to see Greek letters on the Russian sailors’ caps.” The
Russian alphabet is largely the Cyrillic, which a monkish
missionary in Bulgaria compounded from the Greek
with certain extra characters to represent Slavic
sounds.... Dinny : Couldn’t make any use of it....
Gonargo: “Summer on a Stonybroke Station” drove
first man _who read it to drink Max W. : “Great
Division” is only a splendid p ece of penmanship,...
Brumby : Who is the “Woman-slayer”? Certainly not
Man.... Vera: “Violets” very old situation—we want
stories of incident, not of emotion Ne’er-do-well:
“Justice in the Bush ’’doesn’t look true H. R. Won-
son: Hopelessly wooden Bandar: “An Incident”
rejected..... William M‘D. (Adelaide): Will print “ Myra ”
and “ Camille.” Don’t care much for “Death.” W'.M. :
Will print “ Aspiration.” General:.“ Woodchopping”
declined.. . .Riverina: Will print “ Cove.” Doubtful
about “Big White Mare.”.. ..Rei Panes: Verses accepted.
Ot course, publication is liable to be delayed a little
through mass of matter already on hand.....Q.p. :
“Reply” bumps terribly.... The Major: The surly brute
who turns out a fine fellow at bottom is as well-worn a
fictional device as the princely-mannered scoundrel....
W.C.W.: Dream-stories are so.cmnmon as to need ex-
ceptionally powerful treatment jour pen-name has not
been ‘ jumped,” as you say. itie Bulletin’s “ Paddy-
melon ” probably antedates yours Charles B. : Ypur
hopeless ignorance of currency matters makes discussion
impossible. For heaven’s sake learn your subject—then
write....H.W.S. : Bulletin pays for matter used. But
what use to send a cutting from a semi-bush paper re-
cording an event that all Australia knew long ag0?....
J. Will find space for “If You were Mine.”
Not much in “Cruel Sea.” E. Waslon : Happenings
on coast of Brazil are ofi our fishing-ground H.W.B. :
“ -Not for Me,” good verse on well-worn theme. Love’s
sweet kiss wants extra good treatment if it is to pass
nowadays The Hack: Your trouble seems to be that
you foolishly sent in the same verses twice. Once they
were read by a man who thought they might just do‘;
the other time (first man being away) by a man who
thought they might not do. There are some verses that
a dozen men approve at first sight. Also, there are other
verses..... Dreamer : Too dull and discursive Geo.
Mack: Hardly interest enough Kodak: “Holiday
Cruise ” fairly funny in places, but lacks coherence and
point Cormac : Not much short of the mark Dick :
Horse-yarn too ridiculous. Verse not up to mark
K. : “ Old Time Spree ” hardly-«vell enough put to-
gether. Don’t remember other Row long ago?
Tartarin: You caracole gaily round the question, but,
never really touch it....F.D,0. : Unholy sentiments in
jagged verse.... J.P.O. : “ M‘Phie ”no good. The others
may have a chance....J.V.S. (M.L.): Not well enough
done H.B. : Rather clumsily told Red Cedar : Too
jerky and fragmentary Dumore : Mere fantastic rub-
bish.... Bella D. : Tricky and unreal... .J.J.T. : Breaks
down in the last lap... .Josser : That question was hung-
up long ago Loofoo : Painfully conventional.
J.A.: Is this poetry or is it a new religion ?
Cross Christ fix fiction
Good and ill diction.
Connect in link
Ghast, ghost, grave, brink.
And consequent, thou shalt now worship grave ima es.
Human line ; sure divine.
Supreme ! So lore all human flow
Own in,—all people as bestow
Prayse of,—beyond angelic host,
De-term-in-ate and cross tree lost.
1. And Author Universal human is.
2. And Serpent, Ape, Swine, &c., tide complex life of
World deplete and so Babel, —tower in.
C.J.M‘M. : Good lines here and there, but an awful
lack of attention to rhythm. “Spirit of the Cut”
might be made a poem. It is only a saw C.J.M. :
Good aboriginal item. Thanks L.C.S. : Forwarded to
Steele Rudd... .F.11.R. : Either too steep or too fiat •
you don’t get the grade Wy Young : Too dangerous
to risk on anybody’s say-so Yanco : You beat a little
story out too thin Matchbox: Article too long for
subject. Might have made good par.. . A.G. : It may be
afirstclass poem, but we can’t read it, and have our
doubts.. ..A.E.G. : No, that’s about good enough....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W.H.L.: Drought joke old E.B. : “Test” no good
....Thomas Le B. : Not hopeful W. 8.8. : Both re-
turned. Lady in transparent dress gives us the shivers.
Always send in that sort of female on nice warm days.
J. K. Balmgup (VV.A.): A man with a head like that is
not to be trusted with money C.A.M. : You can’t
draw pants. A mere artist may draw hands, but it takes
genius to draw baggy pants properly L.P. : Picture
of two wooden male figures returned Jim C. : Now
where does his coat end ? Also, his pants are woeful
John Gow : “Fair Warning” too wooden W.B. :
Small joke depending on bad language L.O. : Poor
drawings and mostly indecent gags W.H.B. :It would
need too much explanation Unsuitable: Dor6, 8.E,,
N.C.L., “ Man With a Stake in the Country,” Infectious!
H.G., T.M. “Thought he was Wrecked.”


THE WRECKERS. —(IRVINE’S WAY TO STOP STRIKES.)
DRIVERS : “WELL! IF YOU PUT IT THAT WAY"


AN ABORTIVE ATTEMPT.


A. SAUNDERS
FOR WEDDING PRESENTS, USEFUL AND ACCEPTjSxje
Showrooms: 815 GtEORCtE-STREET, SYDNEY.
v .
■N
k
i. \)
A
,y f <
A. SAUNDERS.
Two SERVIETTE RINDS, in Silk-lined Case,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard Nickel Silver,
in tliiee similar patterns of ferns, 12s 6d, Iss 6d {
Pure Solid Bilver, 30s, 365, £2,
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, makes Two Dishes,
Pure Silver-plated on White Nickel Silver. 40s,
Other styles, £2 10s to £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
0102 -HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
Silver-plated on White Metal, Extra Chased, £2 10s.
Bimilar Designs, £2, £3, £8 10s.
TEA POT, Extra Heavy Silver-plated, 27s 6d.
Similar styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s, £2.
M
mm-
's '‘/A V'
mm
i—rsV
©I
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Silver-plated CRDETi
as above, 21s.
EGG CRUET, Pure Silver-plated,
with Spoons, 255.
Other styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, White or Coloured
Ornamented Glass, Pure Silver electro-
plated on Hard Nickel Silver, 10s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautiful 8-Day, striking hours and half-hours, Marblette CLOCK, £2 2s 6d.
Reliable Timekeepers.
▲ MOST ACCEPTABLE PRESENT.
Post Tree Anywhere.
JAM or BUTTER KNIFI
Fare Silver-plated on Hard
White Metal, 2s, 2s 6d, 8s 6d,
4s tfd. Special Value.
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Leal Pattern, 8s 6d.
.-V',
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak DINNER GONG, Silver-plated Mounted, £2 10s.
Other styles, 17s 6d, 2Cs, 255, 30s.
A NICE PRESENT.
BST* WE GUAR AIM TEE YOU THE UTMOST
SA LTSFACTION.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST FREE.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Silver-plated
FLORAL STAND,
Ruby Glass, 12s 6d
a pair.
Very Cheap.
' SALTS,
Silver-plated Stands,
6s Gd, 7b Gd, 8s Gd.
t ■
*>• •
1
Ssr
"—S' ;
m
■ ■-■.■:
TJr- ■
—.U^uiiii
A SAUNDERS
Handsomely Chased, First-class, A 1 TEA and COFFEE SET, £8 10s. ' B Quality £6 10s TFA SET
Other styles, JES ss, £6 6s to £2O. Send for Illustrated Book £3 10s aild £1
m
E-
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE,
Silver Electro-plated, Handsomely
Chased, 16s 6d and ‘2os ;
extra quality, 255, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver BOOK MARK, 2s 6d.
x , , A. SAUNDERS.
A 1 Ouality 4o clock CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-plated
Hard White Metal, 10s 6d and 12s 6d half-dozen.
Our Silverplate is England’s
Highest Quality.
T, lfw A - SAUNDERS.
8124.-O ak BISCUIT, Silver-pl ted
El- 2081 , Sh,e/d -nly P i:L;
Muted Huns, 2os ; Floral China
Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure „ .
Nickel Silver. Beautifully Chased and Oran Karf
can be used as Cake Dish or M ® »!
80s, Ilj, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT 2U ’
Wt.
■55
-
mrnml
„ _ A. SAUNDERS.
„ „ CAKE BASKET, Beautifully Chased
86b, £2, £2 10s, £3. Cheaper styles, 20s, £&, 3Qj,
A. SAUNDERB.
First-class 4-Bottle CRUET,
Silver-plated, 355. Similar. 255, 30s.
A. 8A CJND ERB
INKSTAND, Highest Quality, £2 10s.
Qther styles, Silver-plate 1,30 s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased and Carved JEWEL CASE,
Pure Silvei-pluted, Silk-lined, 15s 6d.
POCKET SPIRIT FLASKS.
All Sorts, Prices, and Styles, 7s 6d, 10s lid, los,
20s, 255, 80s, £2.
a. sa;
Double JAMS, Floral Ornamented China, 255, 30s.
In single, 15s (Id. Pure Silver-plated Rims.
A
J T J
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH.
815 AND 817 GEORGE-ST.,
nearly opposite
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


From the CRYSTAL PALACE, LONDON.
J . ' • ’;*>"- i
Co' - ■ HP# Hfte
H ■ 7C'e® : . :
*> i 1 3fs l«p7' r
- ' /ag \s% V: : „
mrnmmmm -
i»r I pT£a .-
FITZGERALD BROS.’ NEW LONDON SENSATION,
NOW LOCATED AT BELMORE PARK, SYDNEY.


If the man on the Land wishes to remain
there in Peace, he should employ W. N. Willis,
Land Agent, 21 Bligh-street, as his Agent. No
results, no payments.*
Mr. EDWARD W. PARKINSON, Jefferson,
Pa., May 13, 1899, writes :
“ Five years ago I had a severe attack of ASTECM
I tried various remedies, without relief. THK
BOTTLES OF JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT COMPLETED
CURED ME.”*
A little cough will take you off
When you the least expect it,
If you don’t try to make it fly,
But happen to neglect it.
For coughs increase, and never cease,
When once their footing’s sure ;
Yet at the start they all depart #
With Woods’ Great Peppermint
To Cure Dog Ailments.
E minent Veterinary Surgeons
and Dog Fanciers (see Book
on bottle) strongly recommend
Condy’S Fluid as a Certain Cure
for Distemper, Mange, Eczema,
Bites and Wounds in Dogs.
Insist on having “Condy’S Fluid.”
All substitutes are inferior.
J Condy’S Fluid is sold everywhere
by all Chemists and Stores.
GrO TO UELL-
IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagci)
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
I
Bought, Sold& Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
SPECTACLES
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, r.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit ua
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test y ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H* A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 Ceorge-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
“Don’t shout”
* 1 hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
"•How? 1 Ob some
thingnew— The Wilson
Common-sense Ear
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you cant see o uldn'i
-they’re invisible, j w
know I bad them «nmyse
only that I bear all ng
The Wilson Ear-Drum 15
really a substitute for
working parts
natural ear. Has
wire. Invisible, easy
,ust. comfortable
Wrent from any other a
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon req
.1. CM A 1 Htg&, 229-231 C*IIJo&
POLITICAL
POINTS
Misfakes will occur in the best-regulated
in voices. — lmporter.
Tasmania makes the same old mistake. It
starts a Labor party when the thing wanted is a
Democratic Party.
“ Spud ” Young, N.S.W. ex-Minister and
Speaker, announces himself as a candidate for the
Manning in the next Parliament, on the Reform
platform. Young may be considered a very far
back number.
A query : Does the Labor party in N.S.W.
dominate Premier See to the same extent as
Major Randall Carey and ex-editor Brient domi-
nated Premier Lyne, and, if not, should not the
Daily Telegraph modestly hold its tongue ?
Re the “People’s Reform League.” Just
imagine John Stinson, H. S. Badgery, A. Mac-
arthur Onslow, A. W. Gilles, W. C. Goddard,
Alec Marked, C. Parker and Felix Randle mem-
bers of a committee of a league to reform the
people.
Every country Giafc has tried it has had to
pay a heavy price for importing colored labor to
work in its sugar plantations. The West Indies,
where Hindus Were introduced, are now over-run
with leprosy ; at Trinidad there is one of the
largest leper asylums in the world.
The Bent gang in Victoria is announced
to be advertising in England, S’Africa, America,
India, and Maoriland for blackleg engine-drivers.
Bent’s ignorance is about equal to his malevo-
lence. The Federal Immigration Act would
absolutely block such contract laborers.
Perhaps it is only a coincidence, but it is
none the less significant that, in the Victorian
railway crisis, almost the only classes that stood
to benefit by a strike were the market-gardeners
and wood-cutters round Melbourne, 90 per cent,
of whom are constituents of Ministers Bent and
Cameron.
Most per•fstently did the “Respectable
Press” of Australia announce its hope that “the
better judgment ” or “good sense” of the Vic.
railway men would avert such a catastrophe as a
strike. Even the Toriest rag of them all knew
better than to expect “good sense” or “better
judgment” from Bent.
N.S.W. Labor member Donald Macdonell
took a step in the right path at Cobar the
other day when he insisted that the Labor party
was not bound up with the Owe’See Ministry, and
stated that “the party would strongly advocate
a progressive land tax, to burst up big estates and
settle the people on the land.”
Almost the last act of the Lewis Govern-
ment (Tas.) was to resolve to fool no more with
the syndicate which has been just about to build
the Great Western land-swindle railway for the
last seven years, yet never got started. And
almost the first act of the Propsting Government
is to start fooling with it again.
Where, during the Vic. railway crisis, was
the voluntary arbitration so vaunted by the
Tories ? It failed, miserably. Had there been a
compulsory Arbitration Act in force the dispute
could have been settled without the necessity of
Bent making a shocking exhibition of himself,
like a bull-frog bellowing at an elephant.
It is only a few weeks since Tasmania, at
the bidding of the anti-income-tax people, cleared
out the Lewis Ministry, root and branch, yet
already a reaction seems to have set in. Two
Upper House elections were held a few days ago,
and each time the candidate of the Propsting
Government went down, Minister M'Call being
one of the lost.
Old Knight Braddon is said to intend
trying to capture old Knight Fysh’s seat in the
Freetrade interest at the coming Federal election.
Why Biaddon should take the trouble heaven
only knows. A man who was a Freetrade
Premier for 5L years, and all that time imposed
the heaviest tariff in Australia, shouldn’t make
such silly jokes in his old age.
For their cheap yellow miner the Jew-
hannesburg owners are going to rake Asia very
thoroughly. The route marked out for the two
Commissioners, Skinner and Noyes—who are
sampling the various brands —takes in Japan,
China (two months to be devoted to China), and
the Malay Peninsula. At present great hopes are
centred on Singapore as a base where innumerable
Ah Fats may be gathered for export to S’Africa.
The servile fear of what the British money-
lender may think tinges every act or projeot now
in debt-enslaved Australia. Of course, it cropped
up in the Victorian railway matter. Said Sydney
E. Noose
No capital would come into Australia under existing
conditions.
The horrible fear lest we may not be able to get
further into debt is always with us.
All Fat Men should see that the Irvine-
Bent Government is suppressed. It is making
the repudiation of solemn bargains so common
that the public is becoming used to breaches of
faith. And if the public becomes too much used
lo such things there may, among other matters,
be a great inquiry into land titles some day.
Where that might lead to as regards many of the
huge early grants heaven only knows.
Sydney Evening News lies over the rail-
way strike almost as magnificently as the D.T.
“ While claiming freedom of action for themselves
the men refuse to concede similar freedom to the
employers.” When? Where? Whoobjected to
Bent joining, or even organising, a union of Rail-
way Ministers ? Or who even objected to Bent,
in his spare time, joining the Employers’ Union ?
There is far too much shrieking at large over this
business.
It is really time someone took the editor
of Sydney Telegraph aside and urged him to see
that that dreadful paper, if it must lie, lies with
some air of probability. Last Monday it screamed
bitterly in its leading article about Premier
Irvine’s noble conduct in “ resisting the demands
of the men.” The demands of the men ! Wasn’t
it Irvine and Bent who were going round making
demands and innovations and revolutionary
changes!
Mr. Affleck, M.P.—a curious grey moss-
grown holy Wully who haunts N.S.W. politics—
having proclaimed that he doesn’t agree with the
one definite plank of the Joseph Carruthers plat-
form, Joseph promptly rushed into print to
explain that nevertheless he was proud and happy
to have Mr. Affleck as a member of his party.
Joseph as a political leader is a dismal failure. In
his eagerness for office at any price he may not
differ widely from the average run of politicians,
but in his incapacity to conceal that eagerness he
is simply pathetic.
George Reid fished carefully all over Tas-
mania with Protectionist bait. In the agricul-
tural districts he assured the people that “if he
protected anything it would be the great pro-
ducing industries of the country ” —which was a
broad hint that the potato growers would get
Protection if they voted for Freetrade. And when
he got to the west, where the great Blythe River
iron deposits are, the turncoat dry-doggist ex-
plained enthusiastically that he was in favor of
aiding and “ coddling ” the iron industry with a
Government bonus.
Sydney Telegraph says that Minister
Kingston was astonished at the shipping in
Newcastle Harbor, and adds “this was an
industry to which he had never given thought
in framing his customs tariff.’ Perhaps the
Telegraph will explain what Kingston ought to
have done about “ this industry.” He has left it
just as it was. In old days the coal ship came to
Newcastle in ballast, and took away coal without
let or hindrance. It does the same now. Does
the mangy, grumpy Telegraph desire that
Kingston should pay a bonus on exported coal,
or what?
DEPUTATION OF DRUNKS TO PREMIER SEE.
“ The importers suggest that a special court should be established to deal with charges against the mer-
cantile community.”— Daily Paper.
“ What we object to, Mr. See, is being dragged to the same court as thieves and swindlers who
rob the country through the customs. We may be drunk, but at least we’re reasonably
honest, and we dislike being associated with criminals .”
“Joey” Carruthers has again written a
lengthy mass of cantankerousness to demonstrate
that N.S.W. has the sole right to select a possible
site for the Federal capital. N.S.W., he claims,
can offer a certain site and say, “ Take this, or
none.” Even if he is right, however, he doesn’t
appear to throw much illumination on the subject.
In practice, the Commonwealth Parliament will
select its own site and ask N.S.W. for it, and if
the N.S.W. Parliament won’t give it the Common-
wealth Parliament will doubtless stay where it is
until the N.S.W. Parliament changes its mind.
Choice political item from D.T.’s country
news:
Blayney, Friday.—The local press report a growing
dissatisfaction with the State member, Mr. W. P. Crick,
Minister for Lands, and his re-election is regarded as very
uncertain when the next contest takes place. Much of
the dissatisfaction has been caused by Mr. Crick’s negli-
gence in attending to correspondence, and his lack of
interest in local affairs. There is a widespread desire that
Mr. Charles L. Garland should contest West Macquarie in
opposition to the Government.
It is only small men who are wanted in N.S.W.
politics. The big man gets into office. Then he
has the affairs of the whole State to look after, and
if he looks after them well, he hasn’t time to attend
to the culvert down by Mulligan’s and other
miserable little jobs. And in time the cry arises :
“ Take away this big man and give us some small
beadle person who won’t let great national affairs
distract his mind from our culvert 1 ”
“ T.D.” on Kyabram up to date :
The Victorian “reformer” is beginning to feel
that he can have too much of a good thing.
Three months ago I travelled some distance with
one of him by rail, and had to listen all the way
to a disquisition on the solid statesmanship of
Thomas Bent, “ the man for the railways.”
Yesterday I met the “ reformer” again, waiting at
a Flinders-street ticket window to book for Port
Melbourne. Both of us had barely time to catch
the train which carries farewellers to departing
mail steamers. There happened to be three
ticket windows, and Thomas Bent, in his over-
mastering wisdom, has left one man, instead of
two, to distribute the pasteboards and collect the
money at all three, serving seven or eight of
the busiest suburban lines. The one man was
down at the far window, and gradually worked his
passage our way. I hastily secured the first
Port ticket. A "thin, perky little woman shoved
her hand in for the next, and as I rushed off
the “ reformer ” was breathing heavily about an
important business transaction down at the boat.
The train was already moving as I hopped in, but
I had the satisfaction of observing Bent’s ad-
mirer and the thin, perky woman, and several
sleek personages who also had the aspect of being
some of the solid voting force that gave Bent
and the Icebergers their lift, all standing in a
row on the platform and expressing their impotent rage.
When I met the “ reformer ” hurrying down Port Mel-
bourne pier just after the liner had cast off, and vainly
looking for the other party to the thwarted business trans-
action, the time seemed opportune to ask him whether
he still retained his admiration for fat Thomas. “ Oh,
damn Bent 1 ” he replied.
Nearly every Tory paper in Australia is
aghast with wrath and indignation at N.S.W.
Minister Owe’Sullivan for saying that the
Victorian railway men would yet obtain
justice from their State Government. Ap-
parently these papers are bold enough to
imply that they do not want the men to obtain
justice ; to even dream of such a thing is criminal.
Next time Owe’Sullivan speaks he should correct
himself, and explain that the workers will never
obtain justice from the Irvine-Crooked Govt.
Perhaps that would suit better.
The last acts of the Victorian railway
trouble previous to the strike were characteristic
of the utterly lawless methods of the rowdy Bent-
Irvine push. The men intimated in the press
that if Parliament made it illegal for them to
belong to the Trades Hall they would not belong
to it. Parliament was to meet the ensuing week,
and then the point could have been settled. The
Bent-Irvine brigands said, “No ! you must leave
the Trades Hall because we, in defiance of the
law, say you are not to belong to it. You must
recognise us as the law.” Then it gave notice of
discharge to the union leaders for not recognising
Bent and Irvine as the law. Then came the
strike.
“ E.G.8.” : I know of a Yic. State school
teacher, with 24 years’ service, who took three or
four days over his proper vacation on a honey-
moon. Salary being small he “faked” the rolls
for those days, was found out, suspended, taken
before P.S. Board and dismissed. This was his
first offence during 24 years. Next Govt., with
Gurr as Minister for Education, inquired into case
anew and gave him temporary employment.
Present Govt, has sent him up to the most “un-
livable ” portion of the Mallee—no house for wife,
and has cut his screw down to £7O per annum
and told him to take it or go.
The Vic. railway men conducted their side
of the Trades Hall affiliation issue with far
more ability than readers of the unscrupulous
dailies would imagine. The Age and Argus, and
with them Bent and Irvine, constantly referred
to “ the open threats of mutiny and striking” by
the men. Yet it would be impossible to indicate
a single representative of the railway em-
ployees who used the word “strike” until the
Bent ultimatum came along, or made any remark
which might be construed into a threat of the
weakest description. All the threatening came
from Bent and Irvine. The letters which the men
sent to Commissioner Fitzpatrick were models of
trenchant but respectful writing. The railway
organisations were advised by men who have the
reputation of being cuter lawyers, and by at least
one man who is a far cleverer politician, than
Irvine can ever hope to be.
HOW THE LATEST PROPOSAL WOULD
LOOK ON THE MAP.
The Federal Capital shall he at least 100 miles
from Sydney, and in N.S.W. territory.
George Reid finished his career in Tas-
mania with a letter to the press in which h»
assured the people that if he became Federal
Premier’(1) He wouldn’t introduce a progres
sive land-tax to burst up big estates and settle the
people on the land ; (2) he wouldn’t tax absentees-
(3) he wouldn t introduce direct taxation in anv
form ; (4) he wouldn’t introduce Freetrade • (5) in
addition to maintaining the Barton Government’s
revenue duties he would also preserve those which
are only slightly protective. And the local i m
porters’ papers headed the last reports of the Yes-
No man’s orations “Freetrade triumphs” !
Recalled now, in connection with the
tenth anniversary of Seddon’s Premiership i n
M. that the 26 Ministries before him had
an average life of only 17 months. The State
had three Ministries in its first 26 days of
Responsible Government; after that Stafford
kept in office 5 years and 1 month; and that
made an easy record until Richard came along.
Maoriland has put up some curious records
Three Ministries were formed in 1856 (all inside
26 days as above mentioned); three in 1876, and
three in 1884 (all inside 18 days). Curiously
enough, N.S.W. also started Responsible Gov-
ernment by founding three Ministries in 1856.
Kingston’s late tour through Queensland
has done more to strengthen the Ministry’s
position in that State than could have been
accomplished by any other visible agency.
He received over 50 more or less hostile deputa'-
tions, and he sent them all away with a vague
sense of their own foolishness. It was a novel
experience to Bananaland’s moneyed potentates
to confront a heavy, severe-visaged Minister who
knew his own mind, was conversant with the
minutest details of departmental administration,
and who expressed himself in terse, direct and
unequivocal language. Beside the fawning Philp
he appeared a political Titan, and his tour was a
series of popular triumphs unprecedented in the
history of the State.
The Constitution gives the Australian
Parliament power to interfere in industrial
disputes extending over two or more States. The
present railway crisis in Victoria is sufficiently
grave to justify the immediate summoning of the
Australian Parliament, and when it had met,
the strike could be technically extended into
N. S. "Wales and S.A. to the extent of the
men of both States threatening to refuse
to drive or work trains to co-operate
with the blackleg services of Melbourne. The
Federal Parliament could then interfere and
settle the matter, and if Irvine and Bent refused
to obey the Commonwealth law then Irvine and
Bent could be arrested, and sent to gaol
like any other law-breakers. This course
would take the matter not only out of the
hands of the Crooked-Irvine Ministry, but also of
those of the Kyabram Parliament—a course to be
desired by all lovers of liberty and progress.
Close examination shows that the “back-
bone ” of Vic. Premier Irvine is only made of bits
of newspaper, after all. The calm, firm man
would doubtless have let the whole railway
Trades Hall matter drop after it had served his
purpose in getting the alleged reform proposals
through, had it not been for the persistency of the
papers in wanting to know when the Ministry
intended to carry out its threat. Then Irvine
renewed his hustling, and was greatly astonished
to find that the railway men wouldn’t knuckle
under. With that calm which is manufactured
for him by the papers, the Man of Ice held up his
reputation for impassibility for a time, and
refused to negotiate. Then both papers came
down one morning with advice to the Govt, not
to meet the calamity half way, and it was edify-
ing to note the speed with which the calm strong
man climbed down from his lofty perch to treat
with the railway workers. Daily thereafter, for
a week, Premier Irvine spent his time “giving
the men fresh time to consider.”


CALLAGHAN
m
i
is
li
faSiiß
-vj
FOR MEN
24/6
POST
AND
DUTY
FREE’
Except to
West Australia.
WEAR
GOOD
BOOTS
AND
SAVE
MONEY
Men’s French Calf, to Button,
Pointed or Medium Toe, Fine Made-
to-Order Appearance, price, 23/6
THE SAME BOOT IN TAN AT THE SAVE Pft CE.
Post and Duty Free through the Commonwealth, 24/6, except Westralia.
Every pair of boots sold by us is thoroughly up-to-date in style as well as full of wear You
r„7 e te o i» fi r s c bo“. q “ h ‘ y m ret " rn fot 1 part “ tiy fait y °“ *>> «£
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Hydatids on the Liver
ANOTHER VICTORY FOR
VITADATIO
Oampaspe (Vic.), 24th August, 1901.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
181 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in giving my testimony
to the good quality and curing power of Webber’s VITA-
DATIO. Some two years ago I was taken ill; one
doctor said it was Whooping Cough. I was in bed for
over a month, and got weaker and weaker until I went
to another doctor, who said it was Hydatids on the
Liver. The doctors ordered me to go under an operation,
but I did not care to for fear of chloroform, and on the
next day when my mother was reading the paper, she
came across a testimonial from a person who had been
cured of a similar trouble to my own with VITADATIO,
so I said I would try some myself. I sent for a few bottles
at once, and commenced taking it, and I never felt better
than I am to-day, and do honestly believe that I would
have b en dead long ago, had I not resorted to VITA-
DATIO. I have taken ten bottles in-all. lam increasing
in weight every month, and feel it is a pleasure to be
alive. I was waiting to see if my cure was lasting before
sending you a testimonial, and will be pleased to give in-
formation to anyone at any time. You may publish this
as you think fit.
Yours truly,
(Signed) ISABEL M. WASON,
Campaspe.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Elliot'Bros., Sydney, Sole Agents for N. S. Wales.
Do You
Wear a
Truss?
If 80,
TRY
Denyer's Elastic Truss,
# IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture.
PRICES : 15/- Single ; 20/- Double
Send Measure and P.O. Order.
DENYER BROS.
281 GEORGE BT., SYDNEY
Opp. Hunter St.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
To the Members of <
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
T ADIES AND GENTLEMEN,—I take this opportunity
of thanking you for the confidence you have hitherto
placed in me- as one of your Directors, and beg to
announce that I am again a Candidate for the honor of a
seat on the Board.—Your faithful servant,
J. T. WALKER.
Sydney,
23rd April, 1903.
ARE YOU AWARE
THAT we not only make clothes to measure
hut we make them to fit ? We trouble more
about the fit than our customers do. We considei
our reputation is at stake with every suit w(
make; that is why we are sure we can satisfy
you. The highly efficient and experienced
measure cutters we employ make a specialty of
cutting to customers’ own measurements, and if
you patronise us you will be able to say, “ I am
thoroughly satisfied with my clothes.” We makt
a first-class suit to measure from 50s. (carriatn
paid) and send patterns and self-measuremenl
forms to any address in the Commonwealth. We
will do the same to you if you will write to Chas
Gilbert, the leading cash tailor, Brisbane.
AMERICAN SCHOOL OF CORRES-
PONDENCE, POST OFFICE BOX,
629, Sydney, n.s.w.
Please send me Catalogue and par-
ticulars of the Technical Education
you give for the position, before which
I have marked X.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Stfam Engineer
Marine Engineer
C'iVil Engineer
Mining Engineer
Safaitary Engineer
Surveyor
Architect
.Draftsman
Textile Designer
Carpenter
Builder
Plumber
Gas-Fitter
Navigator
Chemist and Dyer
Telephone Engineer
Name ..
Street and No. .. „ „ _
City or Town .. .. „ __
COUTH SEA ISLANDS. WINTER EXCURSION
° A 38-day OCEAN CRUISE in Tropical Weather,
7000 miles cruising and 18 days ashore.
A select party to be accompanied by His Eminence
Cardinal Moran.
TONGA, SAMOA, FIJI, NEW HEBRIDES,and LOYALTY
GROUPS, and NORFOLK, WALLIS, FUTUNA, TANNA
and PINES ISLANDS.
The Splendid New Steamship, “VICTORIA,” 3000 tons,
15£ knots, will leave Sydney on 25th July.
(Passengers live on Vessel in Ports.)
ET FARES : 42 GUINEAS AND UPWARDS.
For Illustrated Prospectus, Plan of Vessel, and Passage
-Rates, apply W. J. SPRUSON, 169 KING ST., SYDNEY,
or IHOS. COOK & SON, Tourist Agents, 4 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY, and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Bris-
bane, Perth, Wellington, and Auckland.
Missing Friends.
IF MR. DAVID LUMGAIR, only son of the
late ROBERT LUMGAIR, Manufacturer,
Arbroath, Scotland, is still living, and will
apply to MESSRS. BLAKE AND RIGGALL,
Solicitors, 120 William Street, Melbourne, he
will hear pf something to his advantage, or if
anyone can give evidence of his death they will
receive a reward on applying to the said
MESSRS. BLAKE AND RIGGALL. It is
believed that MR. DAVID LUMGAIR may
have adopted and used the surname of his
Mother, and have passed as MR. DAVID
CRICHTON.
“ The Ladies’ Magazine" says that the
great feature of Sunlight Soap is that it is
free from noxious ingredients and in no
way injures the texture or color of clothes.
Sunlight
SOHP
REDUCES
E X P E NSE
HOJIDAY, 3m AUBUST, at 12 o'clock noon, STAPELTON’S HALL, GIN GIN,
Near Bundaberg (Queensland).
THE GIN CIN ESTATE FARMS
11,000 ACRES.
Will ba gold by PUBLIC AUCTION, by order of the Trustees in the settlements of
SIK THOMAS McILWKAITH, Deceased.
THE GIN GIN ESTATE is situated on the Mt. Perry Railway Line about 23 miles
from bundaberg, Queensland, about 12£ hours train from Brisbane, with a frontage of
River ™ lleS t 0 the lme and about 3 2 miles to the fresh waters of the Burnett
THE GIN GIN ESTATE which has long been coveted by Agriculturists has
now been SUBDIVIDED Into 103 FARMS
w T e l l .'y atei ' ei ? , and Gained and containing SOME ef the BEST
AURIEULiURAL LARD in this already famous District.
rpnmfA-^ IL vn C T°SJ S Fr 0F LIGhT AND EASILY WORKED BLACK AND
Tn°Awn A m A ypLCAMo LOAMS and by analysis has been PROVED EQUAL
Pf SE j S SUPERIOR TO THAT OF THE CELEBRATED
iiaklJNOr DOWNS with the additional attraction of A BETTER RAINFALL
due to its proximity to the sea coast.
, CLEAIGNG ILL COST PRACTICALLY NOTHING as the estate has nearly
ali b ® e^ n r mgbarked for H years and you can start ploughing right away.
CROPS OF ALL CEREALS, SUGAR, POTATOES and ONIONS grow in
P “ general farming and dairying the land is unsurpassed.
MAROONDAN RAILWAY STATION IS RIGHT ON THE LAND and
the farms" “ TOWNSHIP 0F MAROONDAN will be sold immediately after
The Gin Gin Central Sugar Mill (which cost £55,000) is close to the Farms, also
a Creamery and a Butter Factory.
UN^^ EDENTED TERIV!S (24 YEARS) are offered— ONE-TENTH
CASH. No Payments for 2 Years and the balance in 23 Annual
Instalments with interest at 4 per cent.
An ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET giving full particulars may be had on application to
the office of this paper or from the Auctioneers,
ISLES, LOVE i CO. , The Post Office Auction Mart,
Queen Street, BRISBANE:.
TO YOUNG MEN Abraham Lincoln’s advice was “GO WEST our advice is—
“GO NORTH."
HARDY BROTHERS,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS.
PEARL PENDANTS
Our Stock of New Designs in
Jewellery is the finest in the
Commonwealth.
GOODS FORWARDED TO ALL PARTS OF THE
STATES WITHOUT ANY INCONVENIENCE TO
CUSTOMERS.
W
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
WmWM
Ms®
fs.
Showrooms:
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY; a„d a.
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
*sr
L
...Vs'.
V
: /I
la
of>
tr
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
{Sigh-Class Corsets
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
M.ark on band inside, as above.


Banking. Public Companies, Ac.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
9
&
BILLS
discounted.
KT.S.A7V-.
(IjontdepietefljMl.C o^.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
>—THE-^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robbrtb
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299- assuring £26 826 380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,<67, 115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable Indefeasible
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
il9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of |jorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director -JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J P CANNV. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&■ Co. Ltd)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... • L 700.000
Capital Paia-up ...£lOO,OOO
Sh “”' -250H10 .. £350.000
of Queensland
J LIMIT HD.
r'APTTAI PAID-UP .. •• •• ..£456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS 176,239
RESEUVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,000
£691,166
Read Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
G e”. LONDON OFHCE; 2S ABCHU R C H LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting (Jumpy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TJUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
JL> Cormer Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot Queensland the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
. he SAVINGS BANK
I HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £ L r >,ooo, on Town
Properties; and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yearly.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4J per cent, for 3H years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Go., Ltd.). Adelaide : L A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, \ . N.
M‘Farlank : Brisbane, K. Wilson , Perth, A. W.
|... 0T »... J. J-ALLEH,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. ••
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500.000
the trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company s
business) ... •.■ A9l 10
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
our No . 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
S&Hffir.iSksL'r.- :~=
mj -
s the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Cas
Generators
In daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
]\r. d. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIN, 24th JUNE.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SOPHOCLES
SALAMIS
ABERDEEN
H. A. Schleman .. Noon, May 22
A. Douglas, R.N.R. Noon, June 12
Noon, July 3
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
T nndon £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & Co’s tine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
A. and. A. LiIKTB.
TW O Gr RA. UNT O E X CURS lOW S.
YOSEMITE VALLEY and California BIG trees,
UP IN THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS.
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland say Yosemite surpasses even the grandeur of the Alps.
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MONTE (monterey).
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND HEALTH AND PLEASURE RESORT.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate in these excursions.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., ilanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
COUGHS
Powell’s Balsam
of Aniseed.
SAFE AND RELIABLE.—
Gives Immediate Relief.
FOR 78 VEARS
THE POPULAR REMEDY FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
It loosens the Phlegm immediately, and removes
the tickling sensation in the Throat, which de-
prives so many of rest daring the night. It also
Strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoarseness.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers v
But see the well-known Trade Mark—Lion, Net
and Mouse—is on each wrapper.
Prepared only by Thomas Powell, Ltd*f
Blackfriars, London, S.E.
TRY ** k
RIDGES
zrhe
Jdest
FOOD
Refuse a////nsfaf/ons <
Saljsfyirni. Strengthening Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible, Nourishing
AGMtt POP SYD/VPY.
SAYYRS AiLPOPT 6t POTTEP
RIDGES FOOD MILLS. LONDON. E*c
THE DEAF HEAR.
DEAF persons need no longer despair. Out of the
mass of failures has come a genuine success.
Head noises can be cured and the deaf made to
hear so effectively that they wonder if they really
were deaf. Particulars of a startling discovery,
based upon the science of Metallic Galvanic Elec-
tricity, that will assist all persons suffering from
deafness, fully described.
FREE
By sending your name and address to
THE L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64
HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY, you will receive a full
description of this remarkable method, which will
enable you to restore your hearing at a very slight
expense. The description is posted to you free,
and you will be delighted to learn how easily you
can obtain relief. If will pay you to write to-day.
Don’t neglect to do so.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
M:c>-A.3xr-A., JSt£A.’ y ST 18.
The Most Popular Steamer on
the Pacific,
NEXT SAILINGS ARE—
JUNE 15. JULY 13. AUGUST 10.
Grand Excursion to Canada.
Finest ever offered in Austra-
lia. A 63-day trip for £6O
including all expenses on
steamer, railway and at hotels.
Finest Scenery in the World.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
riodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole Agent for Australasia.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS :
EDWARDS) DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). *
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Viotorian and Queensland Ports. ’
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORT«
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.s. Allinga,
Friday, May 15.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, May 23
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Oatrna
S.S. Gabo, Saturday, May 16.
'S.S. Allinga, Friday, May 22.
S.S. Rockton, Sat", May 30.
Best and Cheapest lioute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after tha
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P AND Q COMPANY’S
** ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at BrindisL
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamershaving room.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tha
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meat
the passengers for London and give them every assistant:*
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available lor return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
♦Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans. . _ ,
Through bookings at special rates to Europe yiaCanada,
U.S. America, < r the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.B. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
sals*
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DLARRHCEA, *». *»"• °“
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS oi
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to do
most generally useful, to the exclusion of Ml
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never tnm>
without it, and its general applicability to
relief of a large number of > simple ailments tonus
its best recommendation.’
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 80s each. EnghA
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern
write for any Information. Country Orders
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRA.IO- & AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
GENTS 'v
WRITE FOR VALUABLE I'W-.E B 00»
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbow'-' 1


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never cau recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured
bend at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/lsd. per b *x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BROS.Sydney. Purchasers should
look for th * registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright.
ARE YOU A STRENGTH
BUILDER )
It is bad enough to suffer the direct pains
of specific illness, but it is far worse to have
to endure the weakness and debility which
come after. Specific fevers, inflammatory
diseases, in departing always confer legacies
of weakness. This weakness, often called
debility, is the failure of the power of the
individual to perform the ordinary exertions,
whether of duty or of pleasure in which one
habitually engages. Debility really spells ill-
ness, because it renders you again liable to
some specific malady. Always build up the
strength.
ARE YOU A STRENGTH
BUILDER? Do not go on in a feeble,
half-hearted physical condition, it is a mis-
take that may cost you hours of needless
pain. It is so easy to avoid pain by keeping
well. Be a strength builder ! The shortest,
surest way to regain strength, to prevent
liability to renewed attacks, whether in
grown people or children, is by the use of
Scott’s Emulsion. Don’t forget that what
will build you up after an illness will build
you up before and so prevent illness. If,
therefore, you are weak, start at once a
course of
SCOTT'S EMULSION. n is the
greatest possible mistake to make light of
slight illnesses, as they are the precursors of
more serious illnesses. Therefore take Scott’s
Emulsion promptly, because it will cure you
of your weakness just the same as it has
cured thousands of people in other parts of
the world. You have only one precaution to
take; and that is to see that on the wrapper
of the bottle there is a picture of a man carry-
ing a big cod-fish; if that cod-fish is not
there, you are not getting what we promise
you—a cure! You can obtain a sample of
Scott’s Emulsion, and the choicest children’s
booklet of the year, “A Bunch of Roses,”
beautifully printed in colours, by sending sd.
to Scott & Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, and mentioning this paper. All
chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
EDWARDS’
*
tk
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER&RESTORER
The Very Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EYERY MODERN TOILET.
Restores the Hair
Promotes the Growth
A rrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roots
Preserves the Hair
Removes Dandruff
Allays all Irritation
*HARLENE*
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children's Hair.
Vffln
Full description and directions for use In 20 languages supplied with every bottle •
’t/m, 2/0 and (triple 2/6 sizo) 4/6 per Bottle of Druggists &c., all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
THE
M.L.A. in 1902
New Business
Premiums Collected
Interest Revenue...
Invested Funds ...
BUSINESS GREATLY INCREASED.
£760,006
£218,139
£69,254
£1,638,939
EXPENSES LARGELY REDUCED.
BEAT THE RECORD.
The Best Thing
on Wheels.
22 Oldsmobile
has demonstrated its ability to travel rough roads smoothly in all
kinds of weather. In a long distance endurance run between New
York and Boston in America—soo miles—the Oldsmobile was the
only machine in the 1,000 lbs. and under class to make the run
without a penalized stop, winning the highest award.
This runabout sells for at factory in America
and the freight is not large.
Starts at will from seat and is under instant control of the
operator. The cheapest reliable
automobile made. 5,000 in use.
Write for free catalogue.
Agents :
W. A- RYAN & CO., LTD., Auckland.
Olds Motor Works,
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A .
I
&
A NEW BROWNIE KODAK
For Pictures 2J x 3| Inches.
PDAK Limited,
And of all Photographic Dealers.
The No. 2
BROWNIE
KODAK. .
Pfliee 10/ only.
LOADED AND UNLOADED IN DAYLIGHT.
Send for Illustrated and Descriptive
Leaflet and mention this paper.
284 COLLINS STREET,
... MELBOURNE
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS.
Business, Robbery, etc.
• Vi7.hr> Sydney Publican who is, accord-
in?u° ( ? ULLETIN 23 /3/’O3) building a beer pump
with a double suction-pipe-one end to go in the beer-
barrel the other in a water tub-will fall in if he isn’t
careful. Premising that he starts operations with a full
barrel of swipes and a common bucket of water, as he
probably will, his pump will draw pure beer as lomr as
that is above the level of the water. When both reach
the same level they will be drawn up in equal quantities ;
it won t work un ess the two pipes are so nicely gauged
that the pump plunger will keep both pipes filled when
in operation, and even then things will go amiss for the
water wffl flow along the pipe faster than the beer.
What this gentleman wants is a small water-pipe let into
the discharge-pipe of his beer-engine. In case some
immoral publican may act on this suggestion let me
assure him that I have already brought it under the
notice of the excise officers of three different States and
that the game isn’t worth the candle.
• • • .
Melbourne Age lately printed one of a number
of complaints from fruit-growers as to their poor returns
One soil-walloper instanced a case, in which he sent to
Melbourne markets grapes which realised from 2s. 3d. to
3s. 6d. per case. Out of this, freight took 6d., cartage 3d
and commission 10 per cent., leaving him an all-round
average of Is. 9Jd. per case. The return, for 40 to 50 lb of
grapes, is by no means gaudy, but it is chiefly the
grower’s own fault. The “cartage” charge (the agent
sending his own lorry to the goods yards and bringing a
ton of cases at a time to his sale-room) is just as big
a swindle as it was in the days when it obtained in the
butter trade, and the commission charge is anything but
moderate, but the Vic. fruit-growers have at hand—in their
Central Association with its 30 branches—all the
machinery for doing away with such charges by estab-
lishing their own sale rooms. The chief cause' of this
poor return for his toil, however, is the direct result of
the Kyabramapootra’s yell for retrenchment. Work is
scarce in the grape-grower’s only market—Melbourne,
wages have been cut down to the bare living minimum,
and the inevitable result is that prices for everything
beyond the bare necessaries drop like a fat man Out of a
balloon. The aggregate fruit-raiser was one of the loudest
barrackers for Kj-abram, and has repeatedly avowed him-
self hostile to Minimum Wage laws, and now—well,
another Pootra fledgling has come home to roost.
9.T.5. : As to the “swindle” of mixing
straw with hay in making chaff (B. 4/4/’O3) “ Ohass” gives
his case away by admitting that both cockiea and busi-
ness-men have “ ceased to regard it as a swindle.*’ If the
vendor makes no concealment of what he is giving, and
the purchaser doesn’t mind, what harm is done ? Indeed,
who has fixed, and when, what you must make chaff of
in order to avoid being accused of swindling? Webster
defines it as “ the husks of grain, and straw or hay cut up
for the food of cattle.” As a boy, in England, I have cut
up many a lot of chaff for a pony, and straw was, as a
matter of course, always mixed in about equal proportions
with the hay. Is there any law or established custom in
Australia to the contrary ?
• • • •
Westralia is at last going to risk having Chinese
for Savings Bank clients. Up to now, the utter inability
of the average European to tell Ah Chow from Ah Fat,
and the extreme proneness of Ah Chow to swear that he
really is Chow Fat, when there has been money hanging
to the change, has scared the officials off the risky busi-
ness. Even now a large number of alleged safeguards
have been thought out, and are to be used. For instance,
a British subject, resident in the neighborhood of the
Savings Bank agency, must attend w'hen Ah Chow opens
his account, and must attest that it is Ah Chow, and
though thereafter anybody may bank in Ah Chow’s
name, the British sponsor must attend and swear again
to Ah Chow before any money may be withdrawn. What
will happen to the British subject who gets mixed and
swears that Chow Fat is Ah Chow, and thus enables Chow
Fat to return swiftly and silently to his own country with
the wealth of Ah Chow doesn’t seem to be provided for
in the new regulations.
* *"* a •
Even with European clients banks sometimes
adopt the expedient of taking a personal description ; it
is, in fact, found to be almost essential in connection
with “ marksmen.” Some bankers go further and won’t
have anything to do with a “ marksman,” unless he looks
like being a remarkably profitable client, on account of
the trouble and risk involved in paying out. Ordinarily
the description is written in the primmest and most re-
spectful language—just the language you would expect
a bank clerk to write where his bosses could read it—but
now and then the boss receives a shock, as when there
came over from the West the “ personal description ” of a
valued client, in which it was mentioned that the client
“ usually smelt very high.” It took the head office weeks
to recover from the shock.
* V * •
A colored man, giving evidence in a Melbourne
court case, stated that he had been seven years in the
employ of a Pill Co., and was now getting 16s per
week. The Bench telephoned to the Pill factory, and
the statement was confirmed. Sixteen shillings a week !
The man who makes pills for such a beggarly wage can
never need to take pills. He lacks the means to acquire
biliousness or sluggish liver.
* * • *
The roll call of the “British patriots” who
underwrote (for a handsome consideration) the first
Transvaal £10,000,000 loan :—Wernher, Beit, and Co. ;
Neumann and Co., G. and L. Albu, A. Goerz and Co.,
Abe Bailey, A. Dunkelsbuhler and Co., Lewis and Marks,
.7, and A. Friedlander, Freeman Cohen’s Consolidated,
Svmonds, and Moses, and one or two more, with not an
Anglo-Saxon among them.
* * • •
A curious advertisement from a northern N.S.
Wales paper :
fJIO THE RESIDENTS OF THE CLARENCE.
ARTHUR TREDWELL, of Maclean,
Sends Greetings !
WHEREAS Times are dull !
AND WHEREAS the said A.T. is out work,
AND WHEREAS the said A.T. has a great notion
of going a-farming, but has not as much capital as
would jingle on a tombstone, he has, however, or
thinks he has, a few friends in this district (if he only
knew where to find them), and he proposes to give
them an opportunity of finding him, and giving them-
selves at the same time a NOVEL PHILANTHROPIC
TREAT. He proposes that each of his said friends
should deposit into a Fund (to be opened at the office
k of this paper) the sum of Five Shillings—which sum
would not break any of them if the venture failed,
and it might make him. Each contributor to furnish
his name and address, not necessarily for publication,
but so that the several sums may, at the end of three
years say, be returned to them.
* * * *
Vic. Minister’s Befit and Murray lately ex-
plored part of the fat western district. Along the
Gellibrand River they found miles and miles of flats
richly carpeted with red clover, and carrying a cow to
the acre. The sole product of the locality is cheese,
which has to be taken along the river by tow-boat, in
preference to attempting to get over the hills with it.
The Country is so dense that the Ministers met a team of
10 bullocks, which had all it could do to get along with a
dray and five cwt. of cheese. But the industry is pros-
perous enough. The first year of one of the cheese fac-
tories resulted in a profit of £2OO, next year £4OO, and
this kept doubling, until now the co-operators make
£3OOO out of it for the year. But let one hard year come,
and presumably these farmers would flock down to Mel-
bourne to ask the State to pull them through their
difficulties.
• • • *
A perfectly respectable—indeed rather affluent
—contributor supplies this item, which casts a grave
doubt on its genuineness : During my early begging
days in Melbourne there was nothing that interested me
as much as my initiation into the Beggars’ As-
sociation. The Association had nothing to do with
those religious individuals who cadge in an authorised
and legal way, nor was it in any way connected with the
Salv’army. The Association was comprised chiefly of the
commonplace street beggar. Its founder was an ex-
spieler, ex-burglar, in fact ex-everything. He was even
ex-honest, but in that matter he was more completely
“ex” than in others. The ex-everything was a pawn-
broker. By subscribing 6d. a week to him he would
supply you with disguises as often as you needed them.
He also decided any argument between any of the
fraternity as to the ownership of stands, or ques-
tions of' similar character that might arise. Before
I joined the society I was an Indian Mutiny
warrior, minus an arm, and through the medium
of the get up, I received much sympathy and small
change. One day the ex-everything (unknown to me
then) came to me and said : “You doan b’long to the
’sociation, do y\” Innocently I asked if he meant the
Commercial Travellers’ Association. I replied in the
negative to his amended question—“ Do you belong to
the Bummers’ Association?” Whereat he exclaimed—
“ Then what the d do you mean by coming the
Indian Mutiny dodge when we’ve already got one in the
union ? ” I realised that two at the game must neces-
sarily lessen profits ; so, acting on the advice of the
ex-everything, joined the union. I was then appointed
to be a blind man in Elizabeth-street, but failing in that
capacity, I applied to the union for a Change, and it
allowed me to become paralysed in Prahran instead.
» * * •
“ J.E.D.” : Knew a time-payment furniture
man who has, to my knowledge, completely furnished
five different “houses of pleasure” within a very short
period. In every case the police ran in the lady for
keeping a disorderly house, before the furniture man had
been fully settled with, and, owing to fines and loss of
business, she failed to pay the final instalments ; so the
spring van gleefully carted the sticks back to their old
home, and the amount paid was forfeited. One place
that he has furnished hasn’t been raided yet, but a
policeman is never 50 yards from the door. The furni-
ture man knows a great number of the police.
9 * * *
The “ great safe game ” is one of the curiosities
of crime. Montgomery and Williams, the two men who
were hanged in Sydney years ago for cracking a skull or
two in breaking away from a police spun net, were said
to practise it. These two, with others, bought various
safes, and had them sent to a certain address. They
studied them a while, made a few experiments, and
duplicated a few keys. Then they sent the whole batch
into the auction rooms and watched the sales. Within a
month or two every purchaser found that his house or
office had been entered, and the safe opened “ apparently
without an effort.” The total losses (or proceeds)
amounted to £4OOO odd.


Don’t Listen
to what people say when they would discourage
your hope of exchanging weakness and sickness
for perfect health. But rather listen to the
\
testimony of thousands
who bear witness to the
great healing properties
of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. All disorders
arising from a diseased
condition of the stom-
ach, liver and kidneys,
that prevent the proper
assimilation of the food
which should nourish
the body are positively
and permanently cured
by the use of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. As
a simple unit of the
many who write testify-
ing to the great benefit
derived from taking Dr.
Morse's Indian Root
Pills, we have pleasure
in quoting from Mr. \V.
V. Warren, 118 Princes-
street, Church Hill,
Sydney. “Some years
ago I suffered most
acutely from rheumatism
and pains in the back,
which I attributed to
kidney trouble. I tried
all sorts of remedies and
cures, consulted doctors, but to no avail. Hear-
ing from a friend that Indian Root Pills had a
most beneficial effect on him (he suffering from
practically the same complaint) he advised me to
try them. I did so, and I am glad to say that not
only did they give me intense relief, after the first
two or three bottles, but I may say that I am, to
all intents and purposes, cured. I am never
without what I consider one of the most wonder-
ful remedies of the century, and can confidently
recommend them to anyone who is suffering from
a similar trouble. I may say that after the suffer-
ing I endured I am at the present moment quite free
from any kind of pain, which I attribute solely
to Indian Root Pills.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a positive and permanent cure for
biliousness, constipation and all stomach, liver
and kidney ailments.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES.
The warm rains which have fallen through-
out the Commonwealth promise showers of pros-
perity later. The two essentials to the salvation
of Australia are a good season and the wise ad-
ministration of D.C.L. Whisky. For the wisdom
born of D.C.L. is necessary to the proper manage-
ment of prosperity when it arrives, also that sound
liquor hastens the arrival by inspiring human
effort to profitable enterprise. D.C.L., The
Whisky of the Wise.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
MARTELLS
THREE STAR
DY
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE ... LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Mr. Harry J. Mosea, on* of the leaders of the
Westralian betting ring, went, rather suddenly, to the
“great settling” on the 7th. Mr. Moses was one of the
oldest metallicians in Australia, being well to the fore
with pencil, book, and bag in the brave days of old,
when Joe Thompson, “Brother Jock’’and Barney, Phil
Glenister, Bill Branch, Austin Saqui, etc., made the
welkin ring with their mellifluous shouts of “ A pony on
th’ Fe-euld!" “This an’ the’ next!" “Six t’one th’
Cup—an—Durdle ! ” And the fact of 3 to 1 being taken
twice about any horse didn’t scare a “Tommie” into
shortening the odds, or even shutting shop for the day,
as it occasionally seems to do these times.
• • * •
“D. Harum” : In Adelaide, sinoe the Gaming
Bill came into force, the betting shops don’t give you any
receipt or other incriminating document for your money.
Also you don’t give your name —simply initials or an
alias. The bookie puts this down and takes your money
and you trust to his honor. Tf he hasn’t any you get left.
If some one else overhears you give your fancy name and
collects for you, you get left. If the police raid the place
before the betting man has time to conceal the book he
gets left. If he gets left very badly you probably get left.
• * » •
Qualifications of recently appointed Victorian
and Westralian handicappers are good. Mr. W. A. Men-
zies (Vic.) for long time acted as judge at V. A.T.C. meets,
and has also owned nags and been on V.R.C. committee.
Salary is £6OO p.a. There were 42 applications. Late
sporting editor (Mr. R. J. M'Culloch) of Melbourne Leader
fills the Westralian gap. His principal endorsement
is 10 years judge for V.R.0., and latterly for Sandown
Park, Moonee Valley and other Victorian clubs. Sixty-
four applied for the job at £4OO a year.
• • * #
Goodwood Handicap (9.A.J.C., Adelaide) saw
21 line up, with Tip Top first choice and Trochon and
Fairy States next best. Trochon (slowing down to
nothing near the end) just won and no more, with
Chatter second, and Tip Top third. Chatter was very
unlucky ; he finished as if shot from a catapult after being
badly placed up to then. Another stride, as the two nags
flashed past the post, saw Chatter in front. Jockey
M'Donald vowed and evidently felt sure he got there in
time. S.A.J.C. Stakes were soft for Sweet Nell. Sojourner,
up to then favorite for Adelaide Cup, carried £1348
of £lBOO invested on the four starters for the St. Leger,
and Mo. asked 3 to 1 on. At the end of the first quarter
Sojourner was coated with foam, and from the home turn
his stable chum, Cross Keys, had him beaten. Crowd
raised Cain, but the crowd was wrong, as it often is.
Result is only another exemplification of the fatuousness
of trying to pick winners. Sojourner had beaten Cross
Keys badly on the track, and the trainer sized that what-
ever chance the latter possessed, Sojourner’s was
infinitely better. Favorite (Lieutenant Bill) gathered
Elder Stakes comfortably.
• * * *
Cross Keys paying a div. of £ll 7s. in a field of
four speaks much regarding what was thought of her
prospects, and yet she won in record time (3m. 14£sec.)
for the race.
m • * •
“Brumby”: Two Sydney betting-shops are
engaged in a fight to a finish, and incidentally the poor
punter reaps the benefit. Heat of the battle centres
round “double” prices. Usual town price is £4 or
£4 10s. to Is.—Bo or 90 to 1. The two irate rivals have
outbid each other alternately, until the price available for
a double on Canterbury races, held on the 9th inst., was
£lOO to Is. —2000 to 1. Second and third books were laid
at £BO and £2O to Is. Also, 150 to 1 was procurable about
pony doubles, usually laid at 20 or 15 to 1. Seedy turf-
cranks might be seen snapping up, with glistening eyes,
anything in the way of a double left on the card. It’s a
delicious sensation to gaze on a slip of paper worth a
prospective £lOO and imagine the money already yours.
It’s a cheap dissipation for a humble bob—even if it
doesn’t last long.
* * • *
Shrapnel (T he W orkman-Element), who got away
with the big Thompson Handicap at Hutt (M.L.) races
recently, had been racing with hacks for a few months,
prior to which he was used to round up sheep. The
time, 1.41 1-5, was pretty hot for a mile, the winner
galloping the field to a stand-still. Strange thing about
this particular event is that in 11 years ex-“ hacks” have
nulled off the stake seven times.
F * • * •
An Assyrian bookmaker turned up at Victoria
Park Racecourse, Adelaide, on a recent meeting.
• « • •
Stallion and whilom great performer Martini-
Henry, by Musket from Sylvia, died at Bexley (Q.) t’other
day. Post mortem revealed a tumor size of tennis ball
on lining of stomach. Dead crack was among the best of
his day. Together with other things Melbourne Derby
and Cup of ’B3 fell to him. He was 23 years old ; among
his get are Corvette, Litigant, Piecrust, Prelude, Rudolph,
Singapore, Acmena, and Mahee—all successes.
Up to comparatively recently, cross-country
jocks were distinct from flat-race riders, and had the
sticks and fences to themselves, but since crack rider
Frank Fielder took to lepping and proved so successful,
other high weights have done likewise. Latest to follow
suit is Steve Callinan, who rode crack hurdler Cham-
pion’s brother, Merry Jest (the outsider in a field of 5),
over the jumps at Canterbury Park, Saturday last, and
brought him home an easy winner.
To date Bill of Portland 2-year-old colt Tread-
mill easily tops all M.L. prize-winners in his class this
season. Five successes brought £1670. Stepniak colt
King Log has four races, worth £1925, to his credit ;
while Kamo’s (by Seaton Delaval) share is £ll5O for five
races. Then comes Machine Gun (by Hotchkiss), £915.
* * - • *
Must be said in justice to Mo that when he
owns nags he mostly runs them straight and ’tis safer
chancing a“sov”on his horses if they’re fit than on
those otherwise owned. It’s much the better way to be
“ after it” always, for, as things are now, a bottled up
“ good thing” often meets a better one kept in the same
way. “ Bookie” Sol Green is perhaps the biggest owner
of the tribe. Independence, Bright Beauty, Santoi and
Undecided all belong to him (acquired within the past
several months) and have each won. Independence
narrowly missed bringing a big fortune to new owner
when just beaten by Chantress for last Newmarket Han-
dicap ; Green had piled the coin on in heaps. Last to get
home for S.G. was Undecided Saturday week. At Canter-
bury Park Saturday last bookie Beales’ Capriform, almost
unbacked (10 to 1 offered) by owner, but a sure trier, won
Flying Handicap from 12 others beating a heavily backed
one (Rock Harbor) hailing from same quarter—Kogarah.
“Ne’er-do-Weel”: Goat racing flourishes in
Northern and Western Queensland, and the nippers
who follow the game occasionally take the Ikeys down in
style. At Longreach, there is a strong club, which was
subsidised by the adults until the nippers showed that
they could run it themselves and a bit over. Now they
come round for subscriptions, offer fair prizes, and do
the thing in style. Longreach also has its Carbine—an
ancient William which is run in that name. The stable
owning Carbine had also the champion goat jockey of
the district, and used to make a small pot out of the
combination. When Carbine became so well known that
no one would bet against him, the stable made a dis-
honest alliance with the rival establishment, which
owned the second-best goat—Ormond. Inconsequence,
thrums, deeners, half-dollars, and occasional dollars and
even half-quids were dribbled quietly on the latter
until Ormond stood to win the combined stables a tidy
sum. When the hairy animals came out for the Great
William Handicap, the crack jockey was seen to be
riding Ormond, and outsiders began to have dark sus-
picions. Suspicions were almost the only asset left them
when Ormond romped in, with Carbine second palpably
stiffened. There was a row, of course, but those in the
know were sufficiently strong to hold their own. M hen
remonstrated with over their evil ways, the combined
Btables were very indignant—“ Whatcher giv n us?
Didn’t Mr run two ’orses in th’ ’Andicap larst
Annual, an’ didn’t ’e stiffen th’ fav’rit ? Then why th’ ’ell
shouldn’t we? Whatcher ’owlin’ at? It’s orl in th’
gyme.” ,
“K.N.”: The booming which has been given
to Hindu Gunga Brahm (now the champion wrestler of
Australia), bodes much evil to the white athlete; and
the awful haste with which a “colored” champion is
welcomed by the “ leading ” papers and people is one of
the things which is extremely hard to understand from
an Australian point of view. Perhaps it is solved by the
wish that tribal differences may stir up the wild blood
and cause something akin to a gory bull-fight. And, if
that was the ideal, the witnesses of the recent match were
somewhat rewarded by the yell which the winner gave
vent to when informed that he had gained the title ;
and the subsequent “ wild ” attitudes which he assumed.
Perhaps the most hideous comment was the pub-
lication by Melb. Leader that the champion’s diet
consisted chiefly of “ meat and butter ... he devoured
half a sheep in three meals and a pound and a half of
butter at one sitting.”
* * • *
Talked-of match ’tween Towns and Tressider
for world’s sculling supremacy has hung fire so long, that
it is now generally felt Towns isn’t anxious for the job.
And small wonder : Tressider’s showing against Towns’
proteg6 encouraged impression that he’d be a particularly
hard nut to crack. Tressider, tired of waiting for a
response to his challenge issued at paying of Pearce-
Tressider stakes, has renewed it during past few days,
and posted £25 for a £5OO a-side stake. Towns’ back-
wardness is probably due to getting a line on Tressider
through Pearce. \
• • » •
Told that brilliant little sculler Daley had made
up his mind to retire from the game before present race,
and it’s a pity he didn’t, in the circumstances ; but Tas.
champion Bourke is a worthy successor who has long
been improving, and will improve a deal more.
* m * *
The championship of billiards in England
seems to be even more open than was imagined.
Immediately after Dawson’s narrow victory over
Stevenson, the winner took on Diggle, of Birmingham,
in an exhibition game. Diggle received 1000 points in
9000—and won by 999 !
* • * *
There’s trouble brewing ’mongst the bikes. A
recent race, in which the stake was solid, is likely to
have its true inwardness ventilated in the courts. It is
alleged that the winner, prior to the event, approached
the man he considered his most dangerous opponent, and
in that delicate manner distinctive of pros, in all sports,
intimated that, should he win, his confidant would be
the richer by £2O. That agreed on, the “goer” flitted
away to make similar arrangements based on a sliding
scale with the other contestants. But the winner, after
paying all save the 20-pounder, found that when he kept
that part of the contract he would have a credit balance
of only £B. Strongly objecting to such a one-sided division
of the spoil, he promptly repudiated all liability. The
claimant is now deeply pondering the respective advan-
tages of a summons and a sling-shot.
0 9 # *
Looks as if big Dunlop road race (Goulburn to
Sydney) won’t occur this year through dispute ’tween
Dunlop Co. and N.S.W. League. Trouble is over Beau-
champ’s recent attempts on records at the instance of
Dunlop Co. League demanded 10 guineas expenses for
League officials who acted ; co. offered out-of-pocket-
money for timekeepers, and explained that as their
compact was with Beauchamp only, the matter of exes
for necessary officials would naturally be between him
and the League. It was further stated that they (the co.)
thought cycling officials always acted in an honorary
capacity. Council of the League withheld sanction for
the event pending payment of amount demanded. Co.
remains firm in its stand, and race will probably be aban-
doned. No other cycling body throughout Australia has
ever made a similar demand under like circumstances.
« * * *
N. C. Hopper— the Yankee bikist who raked
in Sydney Thousand and minor events —left for the land
of Stars and Stripes t’other day. Like the imported
Major Taylor and 99 out of 100 over-sea hikists who visit
Australia in search of boodle, he expressed “great
satisfaction at the result of the trip.” Which, after all,
is only human, considering that in a couple of months he
earned in prizes about £BOO, besides those “ trade extras ”
which always fall to the lot of successful riders. The
success of Taylor and Hopper will certainly result in an
influx of Yankee and Continental riders to Australia next
season, and League and Association handicappers will
have to keep a wary eye on the “ form ” of strangers from
abroad who may enter for the “ plums ” of the prizes.
• • • •
For the control of Rugby football in N.S.W.
there are two bosses —the N.S.W. Rugby Union and the
Metropolitan Union. The latter body isn’t such an old
infant that, if effectually strangled or wiped out, it would
be seriously missed. The N.S.W. Rugby Union prides
itself as the “ authority," its w'ork being simply to
attend to inter-State and “big” football (there are four
fixtures against M.L. and two against Queensland
this year). The infant is to promulgate suffi-
cient interest amongst metropolitan clubs, whilst the
older union takes all the kudos when the rep. teams
wipe out the visitors. The real reason for the second
body is mostly because the “head” Union doesn’t care
to soil its hands and waste its time with protests and
grievances in relation to competition matches, and so
relegates such work to someone else. One “ live ” body
could effectually do the work—and become the “ au-
thority ’’ in reality and not in name.
* » • •
N.S.W. Rugby Union has so far patched up
its quarrel with the Sydney Cricket Ground Trustees
as to arrange for the three most important fixtures with
the visiting Maoriland footballers to be played on the
Association ground. The Agricultural ground and the
University oval are to have their share too in the
inter-State matches. To the haughty individual who is
a member of the Cricket ground and to the haughtier
still who is on the dead-head list, it is a matter of regret
that all the games are not to be played on the big
field, where one can watch the play from a comfortable
stand, with a first-class bar to be shouted drinks at, or a
tea room to swagger round with his Saturday girl. But
the vast crowd of football barrackers who have to sit on
uncomfortable backless forms don’t care so much. Indeed,
they prefer the ’Varsity ground, to which most people can
travel in a penny tram, and not have to either pay 3d or
tramp out to Moore Park. The crux of the dispute is
money taking and making, and the wishes of their
patrons concern equally the Trustees and the Union only
so far as the “gate” is affected.
• * » *
Third battle between heavyweight pugs Jim
Scanlan (’Murka) and Billy M'Call (N.S.W.) took place at
Sydney National Sporting Club, last week, for £lOO
a side, a £250 purse, and Australian supremacy. An-
nounced weights were, M'Call 11.10, and Scanlan 12.4.
Six to 4 M'Call was freely closed with. The struggle
fairly bristled with exciting situations. M'Call made the
pace ; he was after and on to his man with the tenacity
of a bull-pup, never letting up an instant. Third was the
star round of the fight. A hair-raising rally saw M'Call
clip Scanlan on the chin as he came in, and ; Murka went
to the boards with a bump, and 2000 onlookers stood up
and roared excitedly. Scanlan squirmed and wiithed,
got on toes and hands, and then flopped on to his
stomach again ; he tried once more, and rose to his feet,
only to flounder all over the ring while M'Call essayed to
finish there and then, but, through excitement, his efforts
were ill-judged though he made the ’Murkan stagger and
sent him to his hams. Scanlan, grit to the chin, came
again, and just had sense enough to clinch and lean on the
Australian with legs lagging badly, but a heavily charged
punch sent him oscillating and staggering till he fell and
rolled on his back, spread-eagled beyond all likelihood of
coming to inside the allotted lOsecs. The round ended
while the Yankee was still stretched, and seconds
carried him to his corner mid an uproar of shouts and
hurrahs. Subsequently the fighting was mostly one way
—M‘Call’s—and this despite that he badly hurt the top
knuckle of the left thumb and wrenched his right
shoulder. Scanlan never recovered from the third-round
smashing, and rarely did much more than clinch and
hold, seeming dazed, till an exceptionally severe time in
the 16th and 17th rounds had him broken up completely,
and the towel was thrown in.
Unlikelv Scanlan people will come at M ‘Call
again, as the Australian’s latest success was most con-
vincing of all three. Scanlan had grown a lot in muscle
and weight and was fighting better, vide his short-order
defeat of giant axeman Heckenberg. He was in perfect
fix and had long and beneficial tuition from clever, retired
middle-weight champion, Mick Dunn. M'Call is a heap
better fighter than he is generally credited with being.
His endurance is remarkable and is, doubtless, due to
careful living and abstention from alcohol and tobacco.
For long before coming to Sydney to fight M'Oall used to
drop his pick and shovel and have a “rough up” with
tough pugs, who happened to strike Armidale in their
wanderings, and there was always a big crowd to see the
“ go.” It invariably proved a profitable venture for
the visiting bruiser, as very little remuneration satisfied
M'Oall—sufficient unto the scrap being the joy thereof.
As The Bulletin is being printed a match for £2OO a side
and a big purse, between M'Oall and heavy-weight cham-
pion of Tas. (James), is being discussed and will probably
be arranged.
< • * »
Punters who speculate on pugs got a hard
knock at Sydney Gaiety A. 0., Monday night. When
White and Ellis met, something strenuous extending over
a big stretch of the 20 rounds limit was looked for. Bet-
ting ruled 2 to 1 on Ellis, who rushed things ; but White’s
fewer blows told a more severe tale—his left being very
effective. It was the same in the second and third
rounds, until White loosened up more than ever, and,
after stingful lefts and rights on head and ribs, he landed
a smashing left on the chin and the favorite dropped,
done. It was a big boil over, that seemed hardly to have
begun before it ended.
• • • •
Bert Weekes and colored .Toe Thomal at Sydney
Gaiety A.O. Saturday night scrapped for the Bantam
Championship. Both are “scientific” and the battle
was consequently much relished. Thomal was taller,
longer-reached, and l£lb. weightier than Weekes (Bst.).
Things were at concert pitch from opening, footwork
and defence on both sides being neat. Weekes’ punching
had most force in it and was better directed ; the other
laying himself out to evade more than to attack. White
jabbed left in the wind frequently while Thomal swung
left to ribs or side of head as opportunity offered.
Thomal’s dash petered out some after the eighth round,
and then t’other forced him into corners and banged
away with both hands. Thirteenth round had barely
opened when Weekes swung left on the black’s jaw and
brought him down with a crash ; then, losing his head
and rushing, he swung viciously at the fallen man while
he was stil 1 down, but, fortunately for himself, missed
him and black was counted out.
Geelong (Vic.) is just now getting some amuse-
ment out of, and bestowing much contumely on,
its town council, or what remains of it. The
trouble started a while back, when the town-clerk
resigned, whereupon one of the councillors hastily
followed suit the day before the clerk’s successor
was to be appointed and nominated himself for
the billet. The sudden proceeding so annoyed
four of the remaining eight councillors that they
promptly left the council meeting, and there
being thus no quorum, nothing could be done.
Several other council meetings were held, but as
the four objectors still persisted in remaining
away, nothing continued to happen. The offices
of surveyor and rate-collector and inspector were
also vacant at the time, and naturally they
remained vacant. Later a public meeting was
held, at which several weighty but insulting
opinions were given as to the whole council—the
part of it that favored the appointment of the
retired councillor and the part that didn’t —and
resolutions were enthusiastically carried desir-
ing the whole council to resign forthwith.
The council accepted these cheerfully, and filed
them away in the dog-kennel. Then another
Council meeting eventuated, at which —it being
manifest that if no rate-collector were appointed
no rates could be gathered in and the whole
scheme of city government must come to a stand-
still —that necessary officer and a surveyor were
engaged on a 12 months’ trial. Directly, however,
the question of choosing a new town-clerk came
up two councillors suddenly resigned and two
more unaccountably left the room, thus leaving
no quorum as before. The position now is that
the town is three councillors short of its tally,
while two of the remainder are obstreperous and
decline to attend to business, so no business is
done. Moreover, there is no visible way of getting
a quorum, as one of the resigned councillors was
returning-officer, and there is no process for
getting another returning-officer. It is a really
quaint position altogether.
♦
Dr. Phillip Muskett, of Sydney, who had
already contributed more to Australian literature than
any other two doctors, has now adopted a larger means
to let Australians know what they are built of, how the
works go wrong, and in what way repairs may be made.
The new Medical Guide weighs eight or lOlbs,, and con-
tains as much good and solid matter as-a book that size
ought to. Its avowed object is “to supply to the people
of Australia a vast fund of Australian medical informa-
tion which they would otherwise never become possessed
of : ” while its chief value lies in the fact that it is
written by an experienced Australian regular practitioner
from an Australian standpoint; that, describing how
diseases arise, it shows in the most obvious way how
most of them may be avoided ; and that, while it pre-
scribes the medical treatment, it also tells in plain
English how, in most cases, by means other than by
drugs nature can be helped to do her own repairs. It
doesn’t encourage a person to feel unwell, however; in
fact, when anybody, after reading a “ Don’t-you-feel-well-
young-man?” advt., has specks before the eyes and
dreads the future, Dr. Muskett says he has nosophobia
and talks about the matter under the heading of
“ Insanity.” The Guide is printed by W. Brooks and Co.,
Ltd., of Sydney, and D. H. Souter illustrates it; and
between the two they prove that anybody can have
his liver presented in as many attractive colors by
leaving it to Australian craftsmen as by taking it to
Europe.
The gruesome Bent on the
workers:— J
The way they have been going on ever since I have
been here has been very hard on me. These men have
special privileges, it must be remembered. Yet thev
break the regulations. No employee has any right to
engage in any business. Notwithstanding this, I found
that one engine-driver was running a public house at
Prahran. Some of the men have farms. I had a letter
the other day stating that the wife of one railway officer
met passengers at Ararat, and touted for her boardina
house. y
The Bulletin, by a mere accident, also knows
about the Ararat case above quoted. Close on 18
months ago a railway painter fell ill, and
has been slowly dying ever since. He hasn’t
been a railway officer in the sense of getting pay
from the railways since his illness, and Bent has
no more right to howl at him than he has at any
other dying man that he isn’t acquainted with.
(The habit of howling at a dying man to whom
you haven’t been introduced should be dis-
couraged in any case; it is only fit for a
dingo.) The wife of this ex-railway man keeps
a boarding-house, and, as the world isn’t quite full
of Bents, the word is generally passed to any new
railway men going up that way to stay at her
house. And she “ touts” to the extent of meet-
ing such men at the station, or of going there to
inquire of her husband’s old mates if any are ex-
pected. It would be interesting to know if the
rest of Bent’s charges are anything like this one.


IT IS QUITE CERTAIN
that such bargains in . . .
Second-hand Bicycles
“rTC m ** * n^ardB are nofc likel y to be offered again
the end of t™e month so to 7 r' dlSappearin S’ will be gone before
can. c t along r early as you
on our giving them the “ “ d °“
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches in Every State. 357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR
BUY A
MONEY WHEN YOU
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
ir . . , . . Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 tos. to £l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23 e post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICC, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St.. Melbourne.
DRINK-
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) & at Helidon.
NOW READY.
IN TWO VOLS.
THE ILLUSTRATED
PRICE, £3 3s.
AUSTRALIAN MEDICAL GUIDE
By PHILLIP E. MUSKETT.
(Formerly Resident Medical Officer, Melbourne Hospital; Senior Resident Medial n# o . TT .
Surgeon-Superintendent to the New South Wales Government (S IfSeriicL Hos P' tal !
Quarantine Station, Sydney ; and late Surgeon to the Sydney Hospital) Superintendent
With 130 Drawings, Several Coloured Plates, and a Mannequin-together with a Profusely Pictured
Private and Separate Section for Women. ’
or America, and for the requirements of the English or American climK^As E "* ,and
however, they are not only valueless, but positively misleading The m.'ic.io. t as Australia is concerned,
world are conspicuous by their absence. In those diseases a tram whinvY ,adles P e ? u J ,a . r to this part of the
conditions present in Australia are evidently unknown Manv n’f nY a F e ,net with in both countries, the
aa “**“ «*■
«deii sscwgjs *2 «■"»•*» »«*««.
entirely Australian standpoint-he has become the pioneer’ of DotmlaYiLdYf nYY and ‘Jwease-from an
of usual and valuable Prescriptions ; a number of "hole and - evei \ b ? me > ; . a large collection
sick room ; a Glossary of medical terms ; an exhaustive Index P which enables Sefb' in a
any subject without search ; the simple arrangement of the wholp r>f fhp ponfonte • , , , II P on
inclusion of tables and special Lfor™fon to Women al P habetlcal order ; and the
in eveSAus U tral B ian r 'home COnf ' dent that thiB most com P lete and valuab le Household Medical Work will find a place
WILLIAM BROOKS & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, HELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELIADE, WELLINGTON, and PERTH.
-A- JJEW MODBT-
RED BIRD
RED BIRD
RED BIRD
RED BIRD
RED BIRD
RED BIRD
RED BIRD
WORTH
A
VISIT.
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., Sydney.
By Special
mrmm
Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in white drill, dec. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Eat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
SHARPSHOOTINg
For Sport and War.
Ml
tr.jCt
HE ir;
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
A Policy for the Commonwealth :
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d. ; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
OOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
L ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
■situated at 50 KJNG STREET, and near the General Post
Office. P-oprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
w*.
HAND-IN-HAND
forEIGHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar*
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shaving Stick.
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Anv Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
If youdoubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you why.
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glas-
tonbury, Conn., U.S.A. Also j
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VENTILATION.
Our own breath is our greatest enemy.”
NO MORE STUFFY ROOMS OR MEPHITIC AT/lOSPHERE.—A perso* finds a room stuffy, opens the
window, sits in a draught and pays the penalty, and forthwith blames the fresh air. It must be admitted
that hitherto it has been a choice of evils, whether to breathe the polluted air of a room or run the risk of
cold from the draught of an open window or door. BUT ALL THIS IS NOW CHANGED.
THE PULLMAN AUTOfIATIC VENTILATOR (the invention of the famous inventor and builder of the
luxurious Pullman Railway Carriages) admits into any room equipped with it a constant supply of outside fresh air
free from dust, smoke, or wet, and ABSOLUTELY WITHOUT DRAUGHT, irrespective of weather conditions. It
gently diffuses the air and also acts as an exhaust. IT SOLVES ABSOLUTELY THE PROBLEM OF HEALTHY
\ ENTILATION. For sleeping apartments, offices, hospitals, lodge and smoking rooms, factories, halls, public
buildings, enclosed vehicles, schools, churches, &c., the invention is invaluable. It can be fitted to the window or
brickwork without disfiguring the original structure, and cost is so moderate as to bring the invention within reach
of the householder of most modest means. VENTILATE AND THUS REMOVE ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL
CAUSES OF LOST HEALTH AND PREMATURELY LOST LIVES. Particulars on application.
The Pullman Automatic Ventilator Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
MUTUAL LIFE OF NEW YORK BUILDINGS, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
Agents wanted in Evert Town in Australia. And at WELLINGTON, N.Z.
DRYSDALE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Timbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
George Reid, at Zeehan (Tas.), on the
hatter episode again :
It’s a remarkable thing, but Australians are ready to go
to South Africa and shed their blood for the old country,
and yet won’t let a half-dozen of the same men land in
Australia.
The same mean old lie. The hatters did land in
Australia, and are there now. This weary howl
about the “ shutting out” of the men who came
in, and the “exclusion” of the men who weren’t
excluded, and the “rejection” of the men who
are here now, and the “ imprisonment ” of the
men who were never imprisoned, is an interesting
example of how the dull, mechanical, dogged
repetition of one dull, wooden lie can influence
public opinion.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
A letter from Tamworth (N.S.W.) :
The noisome condition of Tamworth, now exercising
pulpit and press, is irremediable, and it is too late to act
upon the advice of the Board of Health, or- evade the
probable consequences plainly indicated in the monitions
of Dr. Ashburton Thompson. Twelve years ago, writer,
then residing in Tamworth, publicly drew attention to a
prevalent practice of burying night-soil in back yards.
The service for removal of contents of dry-earth pans
must have been inefficient ; the contractor must have
been dilatory, or the charges above the means of poorer
ratepayers, or something. Anyhow, the nefarious bury-
ing dodge was resorted to. Writer knows houses the
yards attached to which have a subsoil composed of the
accumulated filth of years. Tenants leaving of course
fail to disclose aught touching the state of the yard
beneath the surface, and the incoming tenant proceeds
to dig, as did his predecessor, unconscious, until he
happens on a patch. Tamworth municipality is a whited
sepulchre. There are good buildings, and broad, tree-
shaded streets ; bad water, filth slung about promiscu-
ously, consequent malodor, and insanitary pestilential
result. Dr. Ashburton Thompson’s philosophic “let-’em-
do-as-they-dern-please ” attitude is due to the hopeless-
ness of the case ; for the accumulation of filth and its
disposition is such that it would be cheaper to shift the
town than to cart away the noxious matter. All the
Board of Health can do is to get the new cemetery ready
for the anticipated rush, and, if possible, rig up a sana-
torium on the hills towards Nundle or Moonbi.
Given Away
To Cyclists
Our artistic Booklet, “ All About Dunlop
Tyres for 1903.” Beautifully printed
and illustrated. Every Cyclist should
obtain a copy as it contains 28 pages of
matter interesting and instructive to every-
one who rides a Cycle. Posted upon
receipt of your name and address.
r.-stfm
07-
m
3s,<'j££S2
%
m
NOtffIOT.MfISMIRHE:.
m,. i
ara
1903
//Aim
/About\
DUNLOP
TYRES
The Dunlop
Fncumalic Tyre Aus.Ltd!
150 Clarence St., Sydney,
Anri at
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
117 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
154 Barrack Street, Perth.
112 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, A.Z.
THE MODERN ARGONAUT.
Dkniliquin.—ln replying to a vote of thanks, Mr. Reid
said he had many grounds for hoping for future suc-
cesses.—Aoe.
(Loud and prolonged cheering, during which the dog
arose from beneath the table, and licked Mr. Reid’s hand
as he resumed his seat.)— Argus.
Following are official records of rainfall for 24 hours to
9 a.m.—Albury, 28 points ; . . . Condobolin, 72; Cowra,
73; Oootamundra, 135; Dandaloo, 127; Parlington Point,
30; Delegate, 25; Dubbo, 142; Deniliquin, 2. — N.S.W.
Rain Record (same day).
“Jason” sings:—
Once more my gallant barque bestrides the seas,
And walks the waters like a thing of life;
Once more I trim my sails to catch the breeze,
Once more I sharpen boarding-axe and knife.
Here on my vessel’s deck I proudly stand,
And sing the Song of Sigurd as I sail;
Below me, at the oars, my trusty band
Urge on the vessel with the favoring gale
(Excuse me—this is only parenthetical —
I find the waves annoyingly emetical!)
A Viking and an Argonaut am I;
Yet seek not Oolchi, nor the Western Isle ;
No fiat of the gods do I defy,
Wherefore no kindly goddess on me smiles,
I lack Achilles’ thunder-welded shield
To turn the naked sword or whistling dart;
No blade like bright Excalibur I wield,
Nor spear of Bradamant or Britomart.
(But I have found neat classical allusion
Puts unread enemies to much confusion !)
No ! We have dared the wide and stormy main,
To know the meaning of an ancient Rune,
Which tells of a mysterious Cockaigne—
“ A land where it is always afternoon ”
The Country of the Rainbow and the Gleam,
Where water does not wet, nor fire burn ;
Where no one needs to go to sleep to dream,
And everyone may spend what others earn.
(I will not speak of “ lubberlands delectable,”
Because that phrase is really not respectable.)
Land of Cockaigne : Our fathers sought you long;
And we, too, seek—my bard, and dog, and I.
Though waves roll high and gales blow wild and strong,
The Mystic Rune will keep us warm and dry.
Even now the Fates are kind—for never rain
Falls where we sail: a floating Avalon 1
■Argo, good dog ! Lift up thy voice again
And lick my hand, for we must travel on.
(By Jove ! This animal is far too loving —
Get out of it, you brute ! Where are you shoving ?)
(Left travelling round the Commonwealth, look-
ing for the Land of Cockaigne.)
Announced that at Tacoma (U.S.A.) an
Australian-American wool co. is to build a woollen
mill to employ 1000 persons. Why not in Austra-
lia ? Because Australia has not an efficient tariff.


itAm&t&eSi Qrancl "J£acc!'
OGDEN’S ’GUINEA-GOLD’ CIGARETTES
ftofmlwr
m
5 Wo
■toy «d e
W /
/ r »i*“- " ■/■ "/■
Al*- S ' / • ' / 7
BP^
m
ft
si
"ZfcwouJut(Z
gjjtill (eadwujfl
A Point of Interest.
GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES are made in a factory which is clean, light, and airy, the building being tall, on a hill and full
of windows. This is interesting as it goes to prove that there can be no risk in smoking GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES.
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD, (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
Cardinal Moran (in a semi-religious newspaper)
on the visit of the King of England to the Pope
of Rome: —
The last king that made a vow to visit Rome was
Edward the Confessor, and when through State occupa-
tion he was unable to fill his promise, he erected the
grand Cathedral of Westminster, which is a monument
of his vow and a monument of his devotion to the Holy
See. But it is a strange thing that the first King Edward
of England made the vow, and now the best Edward
since then on the English throne has fulfilled it.
It is by such sycophantic nonsense that the clergy
are always exposing the true worldliness of their
calling, and the falsehood of their spiritual pro-
fessions. If Cardinal Moran believes, as he pro-
fesses to believe, that the R.C. church, with the
Pope at its head, is the earthly representative of
a Supreme Being who despised kings and rich men
and glorified a meek and lowly heart, why this wild
joy because King Ned patronises the Pope of Rome
with a visit ? And if Cardinal Moran believes,
as he professes to believe, that the “best man ” is
the good R.C. who doesn’t run after many girls,
or drink too much, or eat meat on Fridays, why
should he exalt cheerful, worldly Heretic Ned—
who has had his share of the sweet forbidden
fruit of life—over, say, Roman Catholic Edward
V., who died at the age of 13, presumably sinless
according to the Cardinal’s ideas? Why Aus-
tralian men don’t go to church much is easily
explainable since a church seems to be only a
church when there is a row or a collection to be
made, and at other times is a mere human lick-
spittle abject, crawling in the houses of kings and
rich men. Even the Cardinal’s history is con-
temptible unless he is shamefully ill-reported.
The Confessor was the third Edward —not the
first.
A Sydney shop sign reads—“ Sandwiches,
late F. Condy.” Cannibalism, or what?
“Alcohol is the chloroform which enables
the working classes to undergo the severe opera-
tion of living.’’
Free for Asking 1 .
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to G. Specific, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.
References' throughout Great Britain and Colonies.
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
l produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: Dr. P. Harold Hayes’ ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE,
Buffalo, N. Y.. D. S. A.
s
mVW
Weals.
Men WOMEN
| Can obtain strength and vigor
I by the use of DR. PIERCE’S
r ELECTRIC BELT." A Won-
derful Restorative. The most
Scientific Electrical Appliance
ever made. Drugs do not cure.
Mention
this
Paper.
4 This Belt does. Send stump (any sort)
for “Booklet No. 2.” Write to-day:
Pierce Electric Co., 206 Post St.
San Francisco,U.S. a., W. H. Soul & Co.,A ff ts. Sydney
DRUGS ONLY STIMULATE.
LASTING STRENGTH
NO CURE, NO PAY
Dr, Austin’s Electric Belt
Is Sold on this basis to Men and Women
everywhere—Not to be Paid For Until the
Cure Is Complete.
The Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only remedy
jn the world which can be sold on such a plan. It
is the only never-failing cure for Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Weak Back and Kidneys, Nervousness,
Liver, Bladder and Stomach Troubles ; in fact, all
chronic diseases of Men and Women. It cures
after all other remedies have failed. Why ? Be-
cause it restores nerve life, animal vitality,
warmth and vigor to all the weakened parts.
DR. AUSTIN’S ELECTRIC BELT GIVES
ITS CURES ARE PERMANENT.
PAY WHEN CURED.
You pay only when cured, if you can offer reasonable security. Failure to cure costs
you nothing. The Dr. Austin Belt is warranted on a bond of £lOOO to give a stronger
current, last longer, and to cure quicker than any other electric body appliance made.
We make no charge for advice, written or personal.
FREE BOOK. —Write for my beautifully illustrated Medical Book and letters from
Cured Patients, sentsealed, Free. WRITE TO-DAY.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co.iEfElil
49 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
HERR RASSMUSSEN
Will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured bv taking Kerr Rassmussen’s AIiFALINE Vitality Pills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood ofthat wluc)
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he wi
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don t despair, ouc
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Tree.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HER
R ASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s. per box each>
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . . .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office—
547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW—
J
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE = 150 Bourke St.
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
NZ. •• 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 48] Hay St.
KALGOORIJE; 111 Harm* St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER ClTif = Piesse St.


893 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
and 213 Queen St., Brisbane.
] )ear Reader.
A little while since, we were favored with your
instructions to forward Catalogue of Phonographs,
etc., and this was in due course sent to you. We
do not know whether you have since purchased
one, but if not, we would like to interest you as
much as possible with that end in view.
You can hardly conceive the enormous amount
of pleasure such an inexpensive instrument can
give you. Life in many Australian parts is very
dull and monotonous, and in our opinion, and in
that of all those who have them, the Phonograph
comes as a most welcome relief. What does it
do ? It sings all the old popular melodies or the
most up-to-date songs ! It plays with full band
effect all the most beautiful music ! It talks to
you, or laughs so heartily that you cannot resist
joining in ! It will play a waltz or a polka, a set
of quadrilles or lancers, and loud enough for a
whole roomful to join in merry tripping.
It not only does this, but it takes records too.
That means, that you talk to it and it talks back
and repeats your words in exactly the same
manner as uttered. If you play any instrument,
if only the mouth organ, it will truly and faith-
fully return the compliment and play back to you
in exactly the same manner. Sing to it, it sings
to you ; play to it, it plays to you ; talk to it, it
talks to you ! ! !
The next point is its simplicity ; wind it up and
that is all. It requires no skill ; anyone who can
wind a clock can work a Phonograph. There is
nothing to get out of order ; a little careful hand-
ling and a drop of oil occasionally is all the Phono-
graph asks for all the delight it can afford you.
The last (and not an unimportant) point is the
cost, and we will deal with the different machines
in their rotation of cost.
First: “The Majestic,” at £1 Is., an instru-
ment that is satisfactory in every way ; it does
everything we have spoken of, except take records,
and though the price is remarkably small, it must
not for a moment be thought that it is a toy. It
plays well and loudly, but naturally not so well as
the higher-priced instruments. But still “half a
loaf is better than none at all,’’ and if you are not
prepared just now for a more expensive instru-
ment, “ The Majestic ” will return you a hundred-
fold in pleasure the money expended on it.
Next comes “The New Gem, ’’Edison’s Machine,
a gem in every respect, cost £3, a grand little
instrument for the house This takes records as
well as playing, singing, etc., to you. It plays
two records (that is, sings two songs or plays two
band selections) with one winding. Note.—We
would specially recommend a larger sized horn
than that provided with the machine, although it
is of course not essential; but the cost is only ss.
more, and the difference in volume of sound is
very marked.
Next, “ The Standard,” £5, which is fitted with
the new speaker, the most marvellous improve-
ment made in the phonograph, and which was
only brought out last year; and unless you have
heard such an instrument play, you can hardly
believe it possible to get such sweet music. This
machine plays 4 records with one winding.
Finally, “The Home Phonograph” £7 10s., the
daddy of them all. The best made machine, the
finest results, and Edison’s climax of perfection.
This plays 6 to 8 records with one winding.
Now, we have tried to interest you and hope we
have succeeded and not wearied you, for although
we sell Phonographs, as we do dozens of other
lines in our business, still at the same time we
consider that their mission in Australia is not yet
accomplished, and that there are hundreds of
homes which would be made much more cheerful
and happy, did the heads of them but know how
much pleasure they were missing for the sake of
sucli a small expenditure.
Things are dull and times are bad, but the
Phonograph will help to dispel the gloom and
make you take a much more hopeful view of things
in general. We wish you good luck, and hope
we shall hear from you again.
Yours truly,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
and 213 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
P.S.—Records are not included in prices quoted,
le’se all cost the same, 2s. each, £1 Is. a dozen,
sts are always available.
Quotation from a Customers letter. It will
ve you some idea of what hundreds of other
ople think
“ Everyone around is coming to hear our Phono-
aph we have had three evenings, they all say
is the best they have ever heard. Such a change
im the piano for us country people. The Band
delightful.”—Miss WILLIAMS, Home Rule,
S.W.
gOH
If you haven’t
had a catalogue
please send for
one.
A
NATURAL TONIC
and blood purifier is Seigel's Syrup, made of
fruits, roots and herbs. It cures constipation and
dyspepsia, regulates the bowels, cleanses the liver,
tones the digestive system, braces the nerves and imparts
the vigour and vitality of health to every organ of the body.
“For seven years,"
writes Mr. F. J. Pauley,
of Arthur Street, Croydon,
N.S.W., “my stomach was unable to tolerate food of any des-
cription, and the little which I forced myself to eat occasioned
me dreadful pains in the chest, bilious attacks and fits of
vomiting. Now I can digest with ease the toughest
steak that comes out of a butcher’s shop.” It was
Mother Seigel’s Syrup wrought the change.
k steal*
FOR OLD & YOUNG.
It was A
ge-
Need to Despair
You may have been suffering for years from Rheumatism,
Gout, Neuralgia, Persistent Headache, Lum-
bago, Sciatica, Backache, Anaemia, Blood
Disorders, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles,
or some other of the many ills, pains and symptoms of
URIC ACID POISONING,
but, if you will consent to assist Nature, yon can yet be cured. The source of all such troubles is
defective action of the kidneys. When the kidneys are healthily performing their functions none of
these disorders can exist, any more than a pebble in a shoe can hurt your foot after the pebble is
removed. The kidneys filter from the blood of a healthy person about three pints of water every day.
In this water are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten or twelve grains in weight of uric acid, and
other animal and mineral matter, varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. If the
kidneys, from any cause, are unable to do their work properly, then some of this solid matter remains
in the system and becomes actively poisonous. Minute crystals of uric acid form in the blood and are
deposited in the joints and tissues of the body, causing the acute pain experienced when we have
Rheumatism. Gout, Lumbago, Neuralgia, Sciatica, &c. Sometimes the uric acid crystals
aggregate together in the kidneys and form Gravel and Stones, and cause Kidney Colic and
Irritation and Inflammation of the Bladder. In fact, nearly all the aches and pains to which
the human body is subject are uric in their origin. It will be easily realised, therefore, how important
it is that we should
WATCH THE KIDNEYS,
and make sure that they are properly doing their work of removing these urinary poisons from the
system, as it necessarily follows that the absence of the poisons means absence of the pains they cause
The secret of the success which has attended the treatment of uric ailments by
Warner’s Safe Cure
is that the medicine acts in a scientific manner. It is a specific cure for all diseases of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER.
So intimate is the relation between the functions of the kidneys and those of the liver that it is
necessary, in order to cure any disorder of either of those organs, to employ an agent which possesses
an equally curative action on each. In other words, when the kidneys are sick, the liver is sick also,
and the contrary is likewise true. Warner’s Safe Cure is the only known remedy which possesses the
remarkable property of being of equal efficacy in cases of diseases of the kidneys and diseases of the
liver. By establishing a healthy and vigorous action of both the kidneys and the liver, Warner’s
Safe Cure cures not only all diseases due to uric poisoning, but Indigestion, Biliousness,
Jam ice, Sick Headache, Anaemia, and .Debility, which are all caused by the liver failing to
deal efficiently with the biliary waste products of the used-up tissues in the body.
Mrs. A. J. L. Barnett, Brighton Road, Glenelg, S.A., says:—“l suffered greatly from my kid-
neys and liver, and after consulting several doctors and getting no relief I had given up all hope of
recovery when I heard of Warner’s Safe Cure. After taking one bottle I was much relieved, and
after taking four bottles, I am pleased to say, was entirely cured.”
The commonest first syn p l om of kidney disease is Fain in the back. A surer test is to place
some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass and let it stand until next
morning, if it is then cloudy or there is a brick-dust like sediment or if particles float about in it,
then the kidneys are not healthy and Warner’s Safe Cure' should be taken immediately or Brights’
Disease or some serious illness will result.
A treatise containing full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and the diseases it cures,
together with many accounts of remarkable recoveries, will be sent free on application by H. H.
Warner and Co., Limited, Australasian Branch, Melbourne.
ROB ROY pens.
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by ©
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
<A
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6d., Is. & gross boxes.
HINKS, WELLS &. CO., Birmingham, England.
Honorary Repentance.
Kipling, the bounding bard of blood, has perpe-
trated a new “poerr' *n a minor key. It is a
poem of friendliness and honorary repentance —
not the repentance that hands back the loot, but
the kind that is sorry, and keeps the loot, and
puts 3d. in the plate to square matters with God.
It addresses the Boer in such phrases as : “I will
repair the wrong that was done to the living and
the dead,” and “ I will lay my hand in my neigh-
bor’s hand and together we will atone.” This is
the language of the well-dined alderman who
wants to know why the rest of the world isn’t
happy—the fat, beery commonplaces that mean
nothing, barring an affable gorged feeling. They
don’t signify that the stolen republics will be
restored ; or even that any reasonable measure of
self-government will be given to the conquered.
They don’t imply that the project of flooding and
desolating the land with hordes of leprous
Chinese will be abandoned. They don’t convey
the news that the yoke of the German Jews at
Jewhannesburg will be lightened in the least.
They are nothing more than a maudlin, beery-
friendly invitation to the vanquished to
look happy on general principles. An immense
amount of the Britisher’s reputation for gene-
rosity in large State matters is built on this same
kind of honorary repentance. Many other
nations would have taken Warren Hastings’
merciless looting of India as a matter of
course; Britain denounced it as a national
disgrace, and left it at that. No nation
ever spoke of itself with more unanimous bitter-
ness than Britain did after it had waged the
hideously unjust opium war against China, but it
hung on to the advantages gained just like any
common, ungenerous, unrepentant State. No
nation ever agreed more largely and generally
about, its own sinfulness than Britain did over
the seizure of the Diamond Fields, while hanging
on to the Diamond Fields just like the unre-
generate buccaneer any other nation might have
been. And now its bounding bard of blood strikes
the first official note of repentance for the care-
fully engineered war with the Transvaal, and
in later years the feeling will spread,
and . a calm dispassionate Britain will
admit in the dust of grief and the ashes
of sorrow that it did wrong—and keep the
plunder. Britain is the land of honorary
repentance. No other community on earth
speaks more severely, while hanging on to
the profits, about the way it acquired them. And
this honorary repentance seems to pay, as well as
make the community feel good. As a general
thing Britain steals more soil (and repents of it
afterwards) than any other six Powers that know
no repentance. It speaks in bitter reprobation
about itself for prigging ten square miles of terri-
tory, while unabashed and conscienceless rival
looters have great difficulty in prigging one mile.
Britain even does odd jobs of repentance for
other countries. When it isn’t being sorry in an
honorary way over the manner in which it gained
much of its own property, it has time to be sorry
at the sinful fashion in which other States (which
are not at all sorry themselves) remove their
neighbor’s landmark. Britain is probably the
most religious of the Great Powers, but a great
imperial steal can’t be built on religious princi-
ples, so it compromises with its conscience by the
cheap sorrow that comes after the profits have
been gathered in, and abases itself in seven verses
by Kipling. It is a beautiful thing to repent in
seven verses by Kipling.
; ♦-
Victorian Justice Hodges on the Privy Council
(the jurisdiction of which in Australian appeals
the Federal Constitution attempted to abolish—
an attempt foiled by Chamberlain with the assis-
tance of the foreign-trade party in Australia):
Men who had occupied positions of judges in Crown
colonies, where they have spent the best part of their
working lives in dealing with laws which may or may not
he British, but which certainly are in some instances
Roman-Dutch, and in deciding upon various Eastern
customs, are appointed to seats in the Privy Council.
These men have had their mental and bodily powers
worn out by exhausting climates, and have gone to reside
in England after they have earned their retiring allow-
ances ; and yet they may be called on, as they were in a
recent Maoriland case, to consider a course of legislation
on a particular subject. Such men were not mentally
fresh enough nor vigorous enough to investigate masses
of legislation in some colony where the circumstances
were altogether strange to them, and where changes of
conditions were rapid.
Had Australia shown a firm front on the ques-
tion, the Privy Council might have lost its power
of reviewing Australian law; but the curse of
this continent is its foreign-trade party —the
freetrade section, which is, to a large extent,
German-Jew in blood and altogether Hinglish in
sentiment, which holds that this mere colonial
community exists only to use up the shoddy of
Europe, and must as little dare to have manufac-
tures as final appeal courts of its own.
“Less than the brawny individual who prefers
pick to pen.” Thus Sydney Evening News in a
column of twaddle on the “ Disadvantages of
Education.” The man who gets less is the city
clerk or shopman, assumed to be educated. The
“ brawny individual ” who gets more is the navvy
or unskilled laborer, assumed to be ignorant. But
the most manifestly ignorant person of all is the
writer of the article. Sum up the unemployed of
any Australian State and 70 per cent, at least will
be of the class known as unskilled workers. The
city clerk looms big because he hangs about
the city, but in N.S.W. to-day there are
ten swagmen out of work for one clerk.
As to wages, the average bush rate is 15s a week
and tucker, which pans out less than 4s. a day.
Ten hours at least in every day. No Saturday
afternoon, not much Sunday, and Xmas the only
holiday in the year. A tip-top tradesman may
make £150 a year, but he is nailed down to that
for the term of his natural life. Let any clerk
display knowledge, industry, steadiness equal to
that of the first-class tradesman, and it is hard to
tell where he will stop. He may become a Teeck
or M‘Millan. There is an awful lot of rot talked
about the men of brawn. Most of the talkers
would crack up in half-a-day if they took on
Brawn’s job.
+
Concerning a crying grievance :
“Your Honor; whether it pleases you or not, I’ve
got a word to say, and I mean to be heard. The word is :
Just you mind your business and-we’ll mind ours. Also,
we want no back talk or impertinence.” What would
happen if a foreman, or even a common juryman, got up
and addressed a meddling judge in that way? The roof
wouldn’t fall and the sky wouldn’t crack. Nobody, in
fact, could molest that juryman, because he would he
strictly within his rights. It is time jurymen jumped
for their rights, even if they jumped on to a half-dozen
judges. For the impertinence and the arrogance, and
also, and not infrequently, the ignorance of judges, are
as hard to be borne as their results are painful to be
endured. Judge Docker (N.S.W.) is a sinner by continu-
ous and immemorial usage in all these ways. In a recent
case the jury had considered the case for 21 hours and
could not agree. Then his Honor flew round something
like this. “ But why can’t you agree ? The case is plain
as a pikestaff to me, and I’ve explained it to you, so that,
if ordinarily intelligent, you cannot fail to understand.
Look at the cost of a new trial if you fail to agree. I tell
you, you ought to agree.” Then they went back and
agreed, and the prisoner got twelve months.


Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Amusements.
ITZGERALD BROS.’
HUGE OIROUS AND MENAGERIE.
BELMORE
LOCATED—
PARK,
SYDN EY.
ENORMOUS and EMPHATIC SUCCESS
of the
GREAT SENSATION,
THE DIVING HORSES,
As Performed at the Crystal Palace, London.
Who Diva from a Height of 20ft. into the Canal con-
taining 300,000 gallons of water.
EVERY EVENING,
And at the MATINEES, WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee & Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S POPULAR
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY,
Presenting one of the Gayest of Gaiety Successes,
A CIRCUS GIRL.
AS- (MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, at 2). m
Box Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
the World-Famed Farcical Comedy,
ARE YOU A MASON ?
Interpreted by Mr. Williamson’s NEW COMEDY
COMPANY.
headed by the Famous English Comedian,
MR. GEORGE CIDDENS
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as Usual.
RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
Representative Mr. Mayne.
Agent Mr. H. P. Lyons.
FRANK THORNTON COMEDY SEASON.
TO-NIGHT,
TO-NIGHT,
FOR A BRIEF SEASON ONLY,
THE INIMITABLE and EVERGREEN COMEDY,
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
As Played by Mr. THORNTON over 1300 Nights.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PRICES—Ss., 3s. 2s. and Is. Early doors (from 7to
7.30, Is. extra. Ordinary Doors, 7.30. Overture, 8.
Carriages, 10.30. Children under 7 not admitted.
YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation
A Woman of Pleasure.
SATURDAY, MAY 16, THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
Coonamble School of Arts.
To DRAMATIC COMPANIES and OTHERS.
TENDERS for use of above Hall during weeh
of Annual Races (race days 7th and Bth
July, 1903) will be received by the undersigned up
to 25th May, 1903. Tender to state for whal
purpose hall is required, and to be accompanied by
one-third of amount tendered, one-third to be paid
within 14 days of notification of acceptance and
balance on first day of races. Tenders tc
be sent under registered cover and endorsee
“Tenders.” The highest or any tender not
necessarily accepted. Deposit to be forfeited ii
Tenderer falls to carry out contract. Tenderer tc
be responsible for any damage to scenery oi
furniture. Seating accommodation, 350; Lipp
piano ; Scenery by Harry Whate ; acetylene gas,
Further particulars on application.
Noel A. Dillon, Secretary.
THE
‘PLUM’
I£][p7(7a>
THE
PLUM’
This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rin»
, ; 1 1 ' ce t |: bell, and ne ver requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS. J
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a 8(L
“RAZOLES” LICHTNINC RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prior
{Single Razor,
Single Razor,
in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21*.
in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN
KEEN BLADES” PRUNER
(GAFFYS’ PATENT)
Will
Cut
Close
Without
Injuring:
the
Bud, or
Crushing:
the Bark.
MADE IN SHEFFIELD.
For Sale by all
Seedsmen and
Ironmongers.
Price,
8 6
each,
or posted to any
town in N.S.W.,
6d: extra.
N. GUTHKIDGE, LTD.,
71 CLARENCE STREET.
District Agents Wanted.
- Anmgemenr.a
X H ■ MUToVoop
WONDEsm Lmjo PIOTURBI
KINO STREET ARCADE CORNER,
74 OXFORD STREET
Real Life Portrayed with a Vividness and t>
-admhKS'
T Iv °LITHE A T R p _
Sole Proprietor and Manager-Mu. Harm R, f N EV ’
NEW f.rst part-lawn TErnir™
Great Reception of Mr. TED E BOX virrov,. '
LITTLE EILEEN MURRAY, S?
Splendid Same,, ,j„, EP '» JS '
11 BOISSETT COMPANY „
splendid rodoa
O So*l-ropne°r U »d
SPLENDID SUCCESS of M. RUDINofp
, The Greatest Entertainment in the world
Enthusiastic Success of HILL and
VESUVIO CONCERT CO AINY '
Pronounced Success of WILL WHTTrttd'w
FITTS, JACK HARRISON, WALKER U & M av RNEST
OPIE, MILLIE HERBERTS, LINgSd
practically a new COMPANY
PT£!55 th^at ß E . m E lboubn e -
Mr - George Musgrove.
FIFTH WEEK OF
Mr. George Musgrove’s New English Co •
Shakespeare’s Delightful Comedy,
- vuiucuj,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAJ
SPLENDID AMD NOVEL EFFECTS.
USUAL PRICES.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
-|-h=atre royal, Melbourne
Lessee. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt
Business Manager .. C. Simonsens. '
EVERY EVENING, Bland Holt Dramatic Co. i,
the Great Drury Lane Success,
THE PRICE OF PEACE.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is, Box Plan at Allans
H E r v ES T Y ’ S , TH MELBOURNE
5* Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. t ait
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Comic Opera Co. in Mr. Sidne
Jones’ Latest Success,
IVIY LADY MOLLY,
with an exceptionally strong cast.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
And by
Special Appointment
Mrs. William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dancing, Deportment, Graceful
Carriage, Etiquette and Calisthenic Exercises.
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arranged for at
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended.
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus—
“ Ellerslie,” 100 IMicholson-st.,Fitzroy.
Business Announcements.
%
INSTANTANEOUS
BATH HEATERS,
For Gas, Kerosene, or Wood,
from 50s.
Large Stock of
ROOM WARMERS,
For Gas and Kerosene only.
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS.,
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY
FREE BOOK ON
MAGNETIC HEALING
HYPNOTISM
Reader, why not be able to use the most mysterious
and powerful force of nature? By my method you can
learn to Hypnotise in a few hours’ time. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats that are possible to
the Hypnotist. Through Hypnotism you can cure dis-
ease, conquer pain, gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you nothing to find
out all about it. I have issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or KEY to HYPNOTISM, which fully
explains the mysteries and secrets of the Art. It con-
tains beautiful and artistic engravings, and is the most
elaborate and extensive thing of the kind ever published.
For a short time I will send this magnificent book FREE,
on receipt of two stamps to cover postage. Order to-day
and learn to Hypnotise. It is a chance of a lifetime.
ADDRESS:
PROF. R. H BARRADEN,
89 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.B.W.
WEBSTER’S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
Large Tins, 6d.
All chemists.
jt
Equal to any
imported article.
Geans the teeth not merely by fric-
tion but antiseptically. It keeps them
bright, pure, healthy and strong.
If your chemist or storekeeper does not stock
it—take no other, but send 7d. in stamps direct
to us for a tin.
ALEXANDER J. WEBSTER,
SOLE PROPRIETOR A MANUFACTURER,
177 Pitt St, Sydney, N.S.W.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfleld Parade
ST. KILDA. .
rrHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-housemen
-L Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels- >’
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc. •
ENGINEMAN’S MASTER KEY.—AII subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates o
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106Illu8t ,u ’ *
6s. 6d posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, ConM ‘U|
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also turn-
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
Q. opal fields, far out West, have been floefifW.
The gougers have been doing fairly well lately ; their
greatest drawback is want of a regular market, as there
are no resident buyers. Why they don’t co-operate to
establish a selling agency in the city is a mystery.
The fact re Etheridge (N.Q.) is that nothing
definite is known about the deep, or even comparatively
shallow, ground. The half dozen or so shafts sunk 400 ft.
or more, don’t prove 1200 square miles of country. Unfor-
tunately, such data as they do supply are unfavorable,
and payable ground of any extent has not been found
below 300 ft. The Cumberland, out of the upper levels of
which O’Brien, Hunt, and Steele made a pile, is the only
show on the field which has been extensively and intelli-
gently prospected below 400 ft. (down to over 1000); the
result was that the plant was sold and the mine aban-
doned. Still, as the mine is on the extreme edge of the
gold-bearing country, that is not much of a guide.
Etheridge is a fair enough gamble, but it is as well to
bear in mind that, although well over a million has been
put into the field during the last 25 years, last year’s
gold from 78 mines (including Woolgar) was only 66820 z.
Chillagoe (N.Q.) smelting costs, which were up
as high as 285., have been brought dow 7 n to 17s. lOd.
Shepherd, formerly constructing engineer at Lyell, is now
in charge. The April return (from Chillagoe ore only)
was, approximately, 144 7 3 tons copper, 97140 z. silver,
and 21 tons lead from 2997 tons ore ; this is equal to 4‘B
per cent, copper, 3Joz. silver, and under 1 per cent, lead
* * * *
Before the Chillagoe slump Ruddigore Mining
and Investment Co. (capital £1000) took up a lot of
position blocks to float subsidiary concerns. The boom
expected with the opening of the railway and the
smelters did not eventuate, and the Ruddigore Co.
passed out as an active concern. Then a local speculator,
E. B. Torpy, took the Consols, one of its shows, on
tribute, and since October has sent to smelters 2500 tons
high’g'rade carbonate ; he has paid £l5OO in royalty, and
put something in his own till.
* • * *
Yet another Q. syndicate has failed to toe the
financial scratch. Last session a Bill was engineered
through the State Houses giving a large concession to
the Glasgow-Gympie co. Objects as stated were to test
the deep ground, and inter alia to provide lots of toil for
the wurrikin’ man ; but, for some murky reason, the de-
posit of £5OOO has never been paid, although the stipu-
lated time has passed. Evidently the attempt to sell the
concession to a big company didn’t come off.
* » • *
The Arltunga gold boom has resulted in some
nibbling at the great land-grant railway steal. One
Capt. Barclay, an alleged “ expert,” recently arrived in
Adelaide to tender for the railway, and claims to repre-
sent a powerful London S3 7 ndicate "(memo., the Adelaide
dailies said Snow had a “ powerful company” behind him
when the tramways steal was being boomed, but nary a
co. can be found now). Barclay is, of course, incidentally
inquiring about the 90,000,000 acres of land, including
minerals, which the Jenkins Iscariot Ministry offers as a
bonus to the co. making the line. In fact, Barclay’s co.
may be more anxious about the 90,000,000 acres than the
mere detail of finding £6,000,000 to make the railway.
Preparations are being made at the Burra (S. A.)
for the restarting of the mine on the tribute system.
Before the mine can start work thousands of gallons of
water will have to be pumped out of the main shaft.
Tenders have been called for the carting of the ore which
will have to be cleared out of the drain (running from the
main shaft to the Burra Creek) before pumping can
begin.
* • * »
Bull-Cohen, who holds a big swag of Briseis
(Tas.) shares, and w 7 ho got most of them during the
Briseis boom, is fearing a reconstruction of that co. It
may, however, pull through without it, though it is just
now carrying about £40,000 of debt.
* ♦ » *
The unfortunate Sulphide Corporation (Broken
Hill) finds, after all, that it would be unprofitable to use
the lately-purchased Extended shaft, just outside its own
mine-boundary, as a main working shaft. Yet, so unsafe
would it be to rely upon the Kintore shaft, which may be
corkscrewed any day, that another shaft is to be sunk
east of the lode—that is, on the footwall side. Another
£30,000, or so, gone.
• • • a
How tenderly does Proputty, in the shape of
the average municipal council, tread on its own corns !
It doesn’t tax itself more than it can help, but sucks the
central Govt, for regular endowments and special sub-
sidies ; and when it wants a park planted or a bridge
repaired it gets Carruthers, or some other conspicuous
patriot, to bail up the Treasurer for the money. And
even the little tax which it does strike it doesn’t usually
enforce. It doesn’t say, as the central Govt, has to—
“ The rate for 1920 is due and payable at the Town Hall
on May 1, and if not paid with in 30 days from that date,
10 per cent, extra will be charged.” It hires, instead, a
collector or two to wait on the alleged taxpayer, and
encourages him to think that it’s some sort of charity
| that is being touted for. If the alleged taxpayer doesn’t
pay promptly he isn’t spoken to with any harshness ; and
if he doesn’t pay at all it doesn’t matter much. The
comparatively small Lane Cove (Sydney) council, which
has no business to have any separate existence at all, has
just owned up to being close upon £6OOO in debt ; yet it
has over £lOOO of outstanding rates, some of them due
for 23 years ! The local council thinks that an “ earnest
appeal ” would bring in part of this—which exactly
illustrates the remark that Proputty is encouraged to
regard the local-Govt. concern as some sort of charity
turn-cut.
“ Chass ” : Re molasses cure for cancer.
I can recommend molasses as one of the best blood
purifiers going. Years ago I was troubled with
sores on my hands which would not heal. Was
advised to eat treacle, and in a short time the
sores all healed. These sore hands were very
common in northern Yic. during the late summer,
but by using a little treacle occasionally I have
always been free from them since.
Victorian railway items (from Melbourne
papers) before the strike :
The reduced rate for carriage of starving stock and
fodder for same is to continue until 31st May, being a
further extension of one month.
Mr. Shiels is confident that the railway deficit will
be £150,000, although the railway officials’ estimate is
£BO,OOO.
The firewood merchants cannot get sufficient railway
trucks for their business to the great detriment of their
trade.’
Shiels is by nature a raven, and seems firmly
resolved to make his miserable prognostications
come true. The extra £70,000 deficit which he
has promised, if it can’t be got any other way, is to
be acquired by not providing trucks for the pay-
able traffic (the firewood business is a highly pay-
able one, but when no trucks are provided to carry
firewood the business stops) and by extending,
month after month, the non-paying traffic of
carrying the stock of wealthy squatters at reduced
rates — i.e., at a dead loss.
Writes a Vic. correspondent :
The State is the Law. Employees of the State, having
a grievance, should submit it to the calm judgment of
the highest court, which is the People. To strike a blow
at the comfort, convenience and pockets of the People is
a mere attempt to intimidate the Supreme Court.
Quite true. Therefore, let the railway difficulty
be submitted to the people by a referendum or
even a general election. The railway men are
more than willing. The people have never been
consulted yeb _ They returned a majority to
support Irvine —but then Irvine didn’t tell them
that he and Bent were going to do this iniquity.
In this matter they got their job by false pre-
tences. And Irvine won’t give the people, who
own the railways, a chance to say whether they
want their property run in this idiotic fashion or
not. The people are the Supreme Court, but the
Supreme Court is shut, and Bent and Irvine squat
toad-fashion on the front step and refuse to open
it.
At Poverty Point.
The two big- Australian circuses—FitzGerald’s and
Wirth’s—had early struggles in the backblocks. About
’B2, the Wirth family struck a small township on the
Castlereagh at the annual races ; they were knocking
out a very precarious living as a travelling brass band.
Later they ran a small acrobatic side-show in opposition
to the late Jimmy Ashton’s well-known circus. The
Fitz Gerald co. struck a hard time along the Namoi about
’B7, and were compelled to lay up for repairs a few miles
from Gunnedah (N.S.W.), where their well-known pony
stallion Commodore stood the season.
Alice Crawford was “approached” by more than one
London manager during Wilson Barrett’s short season in
the Big Smoke ; so before the co. started its provincial
tour W.B. sent for the bonnie Bendigo girl and announced
a rise in her salary, and hoped she didn’t think of leaving
him. Miss Crawford has lost the massiveness that
threatened to mar her theatrical future, and is even told
by the other girls (probably in envy) that she is now too
thin.
“ Melb.” : A friend of Amy Castles’ father informs me
that he is a Welshman, and that Mrs. Castles furnishes all
the Hibernian blood. I met Mr. Castles at Camberwell
not long ago. He did not impress me as being Irish. An
unpretending little fellow, with a black moustache, who
looks quite young with his hat on and spectacles off.
Anyhow, he furnished the music, being enthusiastic that
way. I have seen it in print that his people were Wes-
leyan, and that Amy Castles’ grandmother had charge of
the Kilmore Wesleyan Church.
The Melbourne Shakspeare Birthday Festival evoked
four lady aspirants for the Stage. Carrie Haase bro'ke
the ice as Cleopatra, in full rig. A somewhat gaunt,
aquilinear young party, high enough ; and with the
fallacious grease-paints and proper artificial lighting of
the stage, she could look the Serpent of Old Nile. Lady
Macbeth, Hermione, and Constance in “King John”
might be more in her line, but where are such people
going to find the openings in these days ot Florence
Youngs and Carrie Moores? One, Maggie Neill, hit hard
in the queer witchlike part of Queen Margaret, in
Richard 111. Charlotte Hemming essayed Beatrice and
Rosalind, and seemed a rather better Janet Waldorf.
Florence Champion went in for Portia, with agreeable
effect.
“ The Worst Woman in London ” (about the most pre"
posterous of all the penny-dreadful dramas introduced to
Australia by Anderson) is promising to make a fortune
for an unsuspecting manager who staged it at the
Adelphi, London, as a serious melodrama. Previously 7
the “ Worst Woman ” had only prospered moderately on
its shocking demerits in Shoreditch and other places
where the average theatre goer is an illiterate consumer
of beer and nuts during the performance. Even at the
Adelphi, the traditional home of somewhat reasonable
shockers, this lurid work was but a gallery 7 success for
the first few nights. But somehow its extreme absurdity
got talked about in Society, and Percy and Algernon took
Lady Gwendoline to see it, and they all shrieked at the
situation and dialogues. A less awful drama might have
escaped the British aristocwaey’s sense of humor. “ The
Worst Woman’’ couldn’t fail to tickle the most tired
understanding. Result, a rush of weary 7 triflers to the
Adelphi, and stalls booked a month in advance.
“ Matchbox ” : Have just arrived from a trip through
western district of Victoria with a show, and can vouch
for “ Ludo’s ” statement that mummers are as plentiful
there as starving stock, and mostly in a worse condition.
Gave a show at Condah one night. Four miles away at
the Swamp was another troupe. At Wallacedale another
company of five was holding a rapt audience worth about
£2. Up at Branxholme was another co. Met three
troupes in one day’s travelling from Branxholme to
Hamilton. The toughest game that I have tackled so
far. Working for Bent is luxury to it.
“H.P.“ : I was much disappointed to learn, when he
died the other day, that the proprietor of one-time
“ St. Leon’s ” Circus was, in real life, only Jones. It
requires a lot of imagination to connect Jones with any-
thing romantic. St. Leon’s circus was a power in the
land during my school-days of 20 odd years ago. It
travelled the backblocks townships far beyond the rail-
road’s reach, and its cavalcade of horses, and team of
waggons, headed by the glittering band carriage, was
quite an event in our dead old township when it
arrived once a year or so. We school kids con-
sidered it excuse enough for a half-holiday, and were so
unanimous on the point that the school had to be closed
for the afternoon. There was great joy amongst us when
“ The Boneless Bounder of Bohemia” plugged our school
bully in the eye so effectually as to put it in mourning
for a week after. St. Leon was a name to awaken many
pleasant memories. And after all it was—Jones 1


I
FOR
MEN and WOMEN
Ilen/e Diseases.
I T has been scientifically proved that,
J- when the nerve power of the body is
deranged to such an extent that
seiious depletion of the natural quantity
occurs, grave nerve diseases make them-
selves manifest. The nerve power of the
body is like the
Fuel of an Engine.
It is the source of heat and activity by which
the machine moves and fulfils its purpose,
lake the fire from the engine, it is an
engine no longer ; take the nerve-life from
a human being,
You have a Dead Man.
Natural nerve power must then be main-
tained in the system if Health is to be
enjoyed. If your nerves are out of gear,
you will suffer from all kinds of STOMACH,
LIVER, BRAIN, KIDNEY and other
affections. The cure of such ailments from
such a source lies in Electricity, which is
Nerve-Power, and correct medical treat-
ment suitable to such maladies.
“INVIQQRATOR,” aa worn by Women.
Stomach Diseases
rpHE man or woman who suffers from
_l_ INDIGESTION or Dyspepsia oi
long standing is to be pitied in theii
martyrdom. How many have tried new
doctors and drugs without benefit? Yet
there is a new but sure cure, a recent
scientific discovery. Pathologists have dis-
covered that when the nerve centres govern-
ing the kidneys and stomach are deranged,
Bad Digestion follows
with its host of ailments. A bad stomach
vitiates the blood and poisons the system.
It is impossible to be healthy. Any man
or woman martyred to Indigestion should
wear one of
The Freeman & Wallace
Electric “ INVIGORATOB, ” Belts for
a few weeks and note the results. It
diffuses through the nerves governing the
kidneys a new electric force, by curative
electric currents, re-invigorating the nerves,
giving strength to the digestive processes,
and assuring good digestion. Health is
sure to follow.
£lOOO BOND.
The Medical Marvel of the Century.
£1 ONLY.
To weary sufferers fortunate enough to possess one of these wonderful instruments wood health awaits ttp ln Tf ~
iMtnrTm rc ne pD JP^ wer> the degeneration of which is the root of such physical evils as INSOMNIA, EPILEPSY HYSTERIA
sb™s£S ?jsi " H f"
r r re“tf no t d^m£ort entreS ' WhllSt patle “‘ “ Wrapped 1,1 slumber the invi g oratin S P ower is diff^d through his entire being. There'S ol the
The Freeman and Wallace Electric “ Invigorator ” Belt
f i° r^ E °?? LY - There is no further charge. It is locally manufactured, not by working jewellers as some locally sold belts are h„h
skilled electncmns. It is certificated by leading Electrical authorities. It has true vulcanite insulation, which prevents the escape of the current without which
no Belt is useful in medical practice. Duty is paid to all States. The £lO “ INVIGORATOR ” Belt contains 18ct *« • 1 , ?•’ Wlt f out Y hlch
even after a cure has been effected The following certificate of efficacy, given by a noted Electrician, is worth p'erusal 8 " all ° Wed “ retUm f<>r lt
Remember! *X*lxe K enuinene 9a of tlxia Belt Is backed a £lOOO Bond.
An Improved “INVIOORATOR.
CERTIFICATE.
No other Electric Belt possesses a certificate of such
high order as is here published, given by Mr. ARTHUR
"WEBB, M.1.E.E., late President Institute Electrical
Engineers, Sydney, and now occupying a high offioial
position, Sydney University. The distinguished Pro-
fessor thus records his test:
“ 1 have examined and tested
the chain of (18) eighteen voltaic
couples * submitted bg you. The
current is a continuous one as
is used for medical purposes.”
•The voltaic chain of electric cells or batteries contained in an
electric belt in which the current is centred and generated.
MR ARTHUR HILL (of Hill and Sylvainy), the famous art-cyclist, touring the Australian States under management to Mr
Harry Rickards, the Vaudeville King, wore this Belt, and says :
“In April of this year I strained the muscles of my back. I wore your ‘ INVIGORATOR,’ and soon regained
my necessary professional strength.
“ Tivoli Theatre. (Signed) ARTHUR HILL (Hill and Sylvainy).
IhyiGORATOR,” as worn by Men.
An Internationally Registered Specialist.
Every patient who is treated at the INSTITUTE is under the care of an internationally
registered PHYSICIAN, and skilled medical electrician. Dr. R. Wallace, M.D. L.R.C.P.
E„ L.F.P.S., E., L.M., is registered by the MEDICAL BOARDS of N.S. WALES VIC-
TORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, AMERICA and ENGLAND. He is the only registered
SPECIALIST who thoroughly understands the application of Electricity to the cure of
Nerve Diseases (See N.S. Wales Registered Practitioner's List for Qualification,)
SIR DOMINIC CORRIGAN, BART., Physician to the late Queen, speaks of him thus :
“/ entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his professional qualifications."
A Work on Electro-Therapeutics.
. .CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 550 pages, 150 medical plates, 31 chapters,
explains the Electro-1 herapeutic methods by which so many wonderful cures are made.
JN umerous testimonials, bearing the names and photographs of persons cured, are alsoin-
cluded These comprise testimonies from THE HONORABLE DANIEL O’CONNOR
Patrick Larkin, J.P., Mr. Arthur Hill (Tivoli Theatre), the famous art cyclist, Mr.’
Ihilip Newbury, the great tenor, Inspector Fowler, N.S. Wales Police, and many others.
Posted tree to any address on receipt of
ONE EsHXL-LIINra- 11ST STAMPS.
™' FREEMAN * WALLACE
ELEOTRn-MFnmai
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M.,
BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Physician-in-Chief. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold city or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
m _ t .... i,''~nunlwmm • TTrvr» A VV Mrhiks MT. fl
per
cent, of the loan during any year, wicnouc notice or payment, ui any une.
Directors — Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman ; The Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. K. J. Black, M.L.O. ; F. E. Wischcombe, Esq., M.p’
- ( y elie 'L a l_ l !i na^ r il^'iL^^“ a J^“ l o^l^V^X EECE ’ F I A ,F F - A ” B. CAMERON. Secretarv
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hearne’
TUB FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is |
generally sufficient,
md a Complete Cure is certain.
BKWARE OF" COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MAR'L’YU TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
2URED BY" ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
ITIE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
‘Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
iiortion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
if London, England, from which you will glean that
;our medicine has been a perfect Gtod-send to a martyr to
!olds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
>e mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
>ort.ion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
t was.—Yours faithfully, ——
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
triday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
n.uch interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
rotn a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
upplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS' TO RTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —i wish to add mv testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
uonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
dvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
■ours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
in a different -man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
roiiderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
ndoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, anil
fty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
•*1 user! your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and It cured each of them in from M to thrM
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
«
Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick, i only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
©
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine. —A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney."
©
‘ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful de..l of good, it having quio*tiy cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
O
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN r.AHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
O
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine. —JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria."
O
« I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
9
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of vour Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria."
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 9
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN 0.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
•
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of n..,ie of a very bad Bronchitis. —A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
•
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness. —HENRY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDKED3 CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
" The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
"Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during: the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing: for and sinking: the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitii
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending: it to others.
“ VVe are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings cf hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
"PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CU”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 33
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose out
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“VVe are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CIIATER 3s CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATE PUL
APPRECIATION.
«W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, nay dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Gkblonq Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd, Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARIME, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch OEP O T r Qffr ce . No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally
SME
THE
&
NING CO. of AUST
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
' r «r p ■ —v —
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Qsh Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, SlagS, and Jewelled Sweg^tC.
For aln* Information regarding Hates, apply to the Manager, Head Oepice, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
I
m
&
ttnts.lfwaaids,&nd
The London Medical Record
says“ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says “ Benger's Food has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own."
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
1 by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
Boyd, M.L.A., the Scotch egotist who
has been engineering the Gippsland coal trouble
on behalf of capital, has been less than half-a*
dozen years a straight-out Tory. One time he
acted as chairman for little Dr. Maloney during
an election, but Boyd got his eve on the Melb.
City seat, and apparently recognised that it was
necessary to wear a different kind of coat if he
wished to represent Flinders-lane and the shipping
offices. He is now the most platitudinous Con-
servative in the Assembly.
Golden-haired Mrs. Fraser, who persuaded
a Melbourne jury to find her not guilty of wilfully
shooting her husband, Dr. Fraser, is now reported
to have obtained an American divorce from that
viotim of matrimony. Mrs. Fraser, for a while,
ran a Melbourne pub., on the strength of her
notoriety, and also got some advt. by apply-
ing to be sent as a soout to S’Africa.
At the trial, the unfortunate Fraser made
little or no protest against the fairy tales of
his voluble wife and her counsel. He now lies bed-
ridden in lodgings at a Melbourne suburb, with
Mrs. Fraser’s bullet still imbedded in his brain.
Dr. Fraser pleaded hard to be let alone when
the surgeons were treating him as an obstinate
fool, who couldn’t live 48 hours with the lead in
his brain. After long and fruitless efforts to dis-
lodge the bullet, they left him alone to put them
to confusion by living on.


Shou d you require a Ring, no matter wiietisr it
be an Engagemint, Crete Wedd.ng, K;eper, or
Signet Ring, this ie the place where you can see s
boundless Stock of all the bestat reasonab e prices.
Cur London House being situated in the heart of
the Diamond Mrr iet (Hatton Garde ■) means low
prices to us and you on Diamond R tt?s
I'ta&uj
18c. Gold and 3 Opals,
£2 10s.
18c. Gold Keepers, 21s,
255, 30s, 40s, 455.
RINGS OF BEAUTY
Diamond iua.i-Hoop En-
gagement Rings, £5 5s
to £4O.
ISc.Gold Wedding Rings
21/,25/,30/,35/,40/, 50/,60/
RADIANT OPALS....
Sparkling with red, blue and green flames of color,
ever changing as the wearer moves about, fascina-
ting Stones truly. We have a range of patterns
that will delight you. Prices Moderate Always.
No. 11.—9 c. Gold, £1 6*.
N* B. lie. Gold, £t 10*
No. 2.—15 c. Gold, £2 10g.
No. 14.— Lily of the
V»Uey, £5 15s.
No. 6.—15 c. Gold, £2 12» 6d.
No. 1.—15 c. Gold, £1 12s 6d.
No. 10.—9 c. Gold, 14s 6d.
No. 6.—15 c. Gold, £1 17s 6d.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE .
POST FREE. .
J
'A |]T
Captivating Styles
in BROOCHES . .
Fashioned daintily and set with the choicest
of Pearls in strong settings of 15ct. Gold.
The designs are such as you won’t see
elsewhere, and we think you will admit
they are very dainty,
No. F 4543. —£4 10s.
No. F 4851. —£3 15s.
No. F593.—£5 10s.
No. F4541.—£3 15s.
No. F2253.—£2 15s.
No. 644.—£2 7s 6d.
No. F 4545. — £4 15s.
No. E 9414. —£2
No. F4551.—£3 15s.
No. F4842.—£2 17s 6d.
5P
)c. Gold Swallow, Harp or Crescent Centre,
10s 6d.
No. F 2252. —£1 15s.
Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free.
No. F 1945 —£2 2s
No. 655.—£4 4s.
No. F 4544. —£5 ss.
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL , ♦ , ♦
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone $ Typewriter [td.
This is a “JUNIOR HONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
Bead what ADELINA PATTI says
To The Gramophone Co.,
City Road, London
Gentlemen,
Craig-Y-Nos Castle,,
Ystradgynlais, R.S.O
Breconshire,
South Wales
I have much pleasure in stating that I have heard your
Monarch Gramophone, and that I consider it a very remarkable instru-
ment of its kind, and quite the most perfect that I have ever heard.
It reproduces the human voice to such a fine point, that in listening
to the records of Caruso, Plancon, etc., it seemed to me as if those
artists were actually singing in my saloons. I have never heard
anything to equal it.
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Represented all over
the World.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND : Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The Cramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


* LONDON BANK OF AUSTRALIA ™
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL
PAID-UP..
UNCALLED, INCLUDING RESERVE LIABILITY ..
BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sir JAMES FRANCIS GARRICK, K.C.M.G., K.C„ Chairman ; WALTER FOSTER
M.P. ; GEORGE MILLER, Esq. ; ALFRED CHRISTIAN GARRICK, Esq. ; ROBERT ROME. Esq •
ROBERT LANDALE, Esq. ; NICOL BROWN WATSON, Esq.
£1,645,020
9»5>9«5
729.«05
BALANCE-SHEET, 31st December, 1902.
LIABILITIES.
Capital :
49,103 Ordinary Shares
of £3O each .. ..£1,473,090 0 0
Less : —
Uncalled and Reserve
Liability £736,645 0 0
Calls in
arrear 760 0 0
737,296 0 0
Add:— 736,796 0 0
Amount prepaid by
Trustees in respect
of Uncalled Capital
and Reserve Liability 8,190 0 0
17,193 5J p-c. Cumulative Preference
Shares of £lO each fully paid (on which
the Dividend has been paid to 30th
June, 1901) .. ..
Transferable Deposits (due 1911 and 1917)
Other Deposits and Current Accounts ..
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (in-
cluding Reserves for Doubtful Debts)..
Notes in Circulation .. ..
Balance
743,986 0 0
171,930 0 0
915,915 0 0
1,589,271 3 9
2,691,522 4 1
584,479 6 3
165.597 0 0
24,208 3 6
£5,973,992 17 7
ASSETS.
Ooin, Bullion, Cash Balances, and Notes
of other Banks £788,035 8 0
Investments, including those held against
Note Issue, and Bills Receivable .. 831,736 19 0
Bills Discounted, Advances, and other
Assets of the Bank (as per previous
Valuations) ... 3,973,376 10 7
Bank Premisw .. „ .. 380,815 0 0
£5,973,992 17 7
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT for the Year ended 31st December, 1902.
To Salaries and General Expenses in Aus-
tralia —including Remuneration to
Colonial Directors, Rent, Rates, Repairs,
Stationery, Travelling, etc. .. .. £61,014 10 5
~ Salaries and General Expenses in London
—including Directors’ and Auditors’
.Fees, Rent, Repairs, Stationery, Tele-
grams, etc 8,750 2 6
~ Land Tax and Tax on Note Issue .. 3,344 11 1
„ Interest at 4J p.c. on Transferable De-
posit Receipts for the year 1902 .. .. 71,616 1 1
~ Balance —proposed to be appropriated
as follows :
Payment of 18 months’
Dividend on Preference
Shares, at 5J p.c., to 31st
Dec., 1902.. .. ..£14,184 4 6
To be carried forward.. 10,023 19 0
£24,208 3 6 24,1,08 3 6
£168,833 8 7
By Balance as per last Report £34,158 2 2
Less Two-and-a-half year’s
Dividend on Preference
Shares to 30th June, 1901 23,640 7 6
~ Profits in London and in Australia after
providing for Interest due and accrued
on current Deposits, and deducting re-
bate on Bills.. „ „ „
10,617 14 8
168,315 13 11
£168,833 8 7
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1900, we certify that
all our requirements as Auditors have been complied with, and we have to report
to the Shareholders that having examined the above Balance Sheet with the
books at the Head Office and the returns from the Branches, we are of opinion
that, subject to further provision for depreciation in the value of the Assets, which
the Directors recommend should be met by writing off £368,272 10s. 0d., from the
Capital Account, the above Balance Sheet is a full and fair Balance Sheet, properly
drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs
as shown by such books and returns.
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & Co., Auditors.
J. F. GARRICK'
R. ROME
N. B. WATSON
Directors.
F. J. CURTIS, Sbcrhtary.
A
Hotelkeepers, make your own
-JERATED WATERS
Over 500 Austral Aerated Water Machines in use
in hotels throughout Australasia.
E w HAS OUTLIVED ALL OTHERS.
Write fior Prices and Particulars.
Sous Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY ANP SONS,
214-216 Queen street, Melbourne.
WITH GREENER BOLT AS DRAWN, THE “ WARATAH,'
60-
WITHOUT GREENER BOLT, THE “WONGA,”
501-
BAR LOCKS.
Left Barrel Full Choke
Right Barrel Cylinder Bore.
For accurate and close shooting this gun cannot be surpassed, made of Best
Materials, and equal in finish and workmanship to guns of three times the
price. Barrels are Browned Twist, carrying a high polish. BAR LOCKS, Treble
Bolt, half-pistol hand. Hammers are well down out of the line of sight. Vulcanite
heel-plate on best selected polished walnut stock. We will supply one or fifty of these guns to anvbodv We
have only one price. Send your P. 0.0. with orders to— J
CARRIAGE PAID.
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
Sydney Small Arms Co.
57 P O. Chambers,
Pitt-st., Sydney.
<<
On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd
Price, 65., Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
THE PIANOLA
{
' * > *,
r*.
0 v
» $ «?>
0 c» *
/V<r
* s t/ .
a O
(0
$> O a
£ <1
4 <?
0 ❖
a *>
l
$ O
<£s tO
Will
play
any
Piano
and
any
kind
of
Music.
We are mailing free, to anyone who will ask us,
a booklet called “ Music in the Home.”
It will be of interest to every person who loves
music. It will be of particular interest to the many
thousand owners of pianos whose instruments remain
unused for months at a time, and become practically
nothing more than articles of furniture.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt cash, or
£65 on moderate monthly payments.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SYDNEY : 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagb Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
pood Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C. P. and C.L.) or Government Stock of
any of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any finer
£lO BICYCLES £lO
*?/( \\N"
From the FACTORY to the RIDER.
THE “EARL” SPECIAL 1903 MODEL
Westwood Steel Rims and Dunlop Principle Tyres.
Complete with Lamp and Beil.
Freight prepaid to nearest seaport town outside N.S.W. Trainage prepaid to any town i
N.3.W. Reduction of 10s. per machine where three ordered at once. Less .£1 per machii.
where six ordered at once.
J. F. MCDERMOTT % CO., 30 Pitt-st., Sydney
Sole Factory Agents. Telephone 2671.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENTf
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYF LASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. •
(\i EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
lO t0£5. 5. 0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
' Sporting Goods and Sewing
' Machines Half Usual Prices.
1 Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2sd. Stamp. Address Dept 346 D
Mead Cycle Co.
Chicago,
U.S.A.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
DARK OR AROMATIC
FINEST SELECTED
AMERIGAN LEAF.
TOBACCO
HIGHEST QUALITY
MANUFACTURED.


Jb m~ i
1
"NATURES
PLEASANT
LAXATIVE.”.
m
OF
HABITUAL
CONSTIPATION
KIONEYS
OtPOT FOR GREAT BRITAIN ANO COLONIES
32 SNOW HILL LONDON E C
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE^
m
Z'W'i
TA
V
California Syrup of Figs is the one True Natural Laxative. It acts
gently, pleasantly and beneficially on the Kidneys, Liver, and Bowels,
and permanently overcomes Habitual Constipation.
/ Words of Advice:
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS, and see that
the package bears the well-known Name and Trade Mark
of the California Fig Syrup Co., the Manufacturers of the
only Original and Genuine. Imitations are numerous, but
as you value your health you cannot risk taking a substi-
tute. California Syrup of Figs is sold in Australia in two
sizes at 1/3 and 1/11. Worthless substitutes are often
offered at less as an inducement.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
California Fia Syrup Company, 32 Snow Hill, London, E.O.
Australia : 7 Earrack Street, Sydney.
m
m
so
■HplMi
, >» *• v *Tfc
' Hflj ■gg|
Wmmmm
gjroglfi
£
II
•sv.
mmmamM-. rvsmmtm.
wmmm
The Diplomacy of Caroline.
[FOR THE BULETIN.]
“Ever heard how Caroline got) Professor Bart-
mer’s pupils?” The woman spoken to breathed
a humble “No !” and suspected weird complica-
tions in the incident.
“Promise never to tell, and Pll let you into the
secret of the Professor’s great kindness to our
friend.”
With a mental reservation in favor of her hus-
band and sundry female friends who wouldn’t
matter, the lady with the Mount Mellick work
promised.
“Well, then, I don’t mind telling. Caroline,
you know, was an old school-friend of mine in
Bungaroo, and when her father died, leaving her
and a young brother to the care of an unamiable
stepmother, it seemed natural enough that she
should come to the city to earn her living and
apply to me for assistance in that object. She
had been a clever girl at school ; I expected that
she would do well enough, till I met her—grown-
up.
“Then I knew that she wouldn’t. It was not
because she had changed from her school-girl self,
but because she hadn’t. She wore her pretty hair
strained back in a way that didn’t suit her, and
whioh accentuated that arch of the eyebrows
which still gives her a ridioulous expression of
surprised innocence. Also her manners were
abrupt, and I saw in five minutes that she hadn’t
developed the slightest tact.
‘ ‘ Now, you know the unwritten law of the world
regarding tact ; a man says what he pleases ; so
does a woman—what he pleases.
“I had a long talk with Caroline over her plans.
She told me she decided to be a journalist because
she could write. I thought the reason inadequate,
but took her round to some of the newspaper
offices.
“ When I saw her next she had left off writing
because she had discovered with indignation that
some of the newspaper chiefs were not always
quite truthful. When I told her that Editor
Ananias must • simply be matched by Lady
Journalist Sapphira, she made some remarks
about her ancestors. Her forefathers were
Caroline’s strong point. She said she didn’t
know who they were, and therefore could live up to
them better, never having heard any unpleasant
stories about them, as was the ease in more
aristocratic families.
“I put her into a little millinery business with
another lady; she advised Potts Point not to wear
certain hats because its complexions couldn’t
stand them. When her money was all but gone, I
got her into a tea-room, where a married man
made love to her and was repulsed with indigna-
tion.
“ Now a girl CSft turn an adventure of this sort
to advantage, if she can make it clear to Don Juan
that she repudiates him from holiness, and that if
circumstances had been different, etc., etc. In
reality the holiness is a sort of understudy motive
that might do good work if it got a chance, only
it never does. The average girl repulses the
sinful married man because she wouldn’t listen
to him under any circumstances. But if she is
worldly-wise she gets a little kudos by having a
‘moral struggle.’
“ Then sometime's- he helps her a little —not so
much as he would otherwise have done ; but still,
something. Do you think Caroline could do this ?
She hadn’t enough sense.
“Fortunately about this time I discovered that
Caroline could play very well. When I told her
that she must make her living as a pianiste, she
inquired with some sarcasm if musical proficiency
would fit her for that profession, or must she be a
sycophant and a hypocrite as well. I got quite
despondent about Caroline at this time.
“Anyway, I got hertotake finishinglessons from
Professor Bartmer, who meditated a year’s stay
in England. I was working to get his pupils for
her, but there was another candidate in the field.
She couldn’t play as well as Carry, but she had
tact.
‘ ‘ She used to besiege the Professor with flowers,
or requests for him to write in her birthday book,
etc. Caroline, of course, because she wanted
something from him, was as chilly to him as
possible.
“ Yet, if anyone needed the Professor’s pupils,
Caroline did. These finishing lessons had brought
her to the end of her resources. If successful,
however, she would be able, not only to support
herself, but to send for her little brother, who
lived unhappily with his stepmother. His name
was Ernest, and she used to behave sentimentally
over his photograph at night.
“About a month before the Professor left he
gave a farewell concert. At this entertainment
Carry and the other girl, Eva Something or other,
were important performers. Somehow, it was
understood by those in the know, that that even-
ing would decide which of the two ladies should
be the Professor’s successor.
“ For a wonder Caroline was liervous. When I
pulled her hair out of its stiffness in the dressing-
room she submitted without an argument. That
was a great sign of meekness in Caroline. Eva,
of course, was gorgeous. She talked to the Pro-
fessor as long as she could, and he looked at her
with mild approval in his gentle German eyes.
Sho had already done my friend one bad turn,
having contrived that the Professor should over-
hear Caroline say that she didn’t think him at all
good-looking.
“Caroline played her first solo well, while I
stood at the side and said nice things about her to
the Professor. I did not allude to her financial
difficulties, of course. Money troubles in a woman
seldom arouse sympathy in the average man;
they generally make her seem sordid to him,
somehow.
“ But I saw soon it was no good. You see they
were pretty evenly matched; so it was only
natural that he should give the preference to the
one he liked best, and who seemed to like him
best —a qualification still more pleasing to the
rnan of sentiment, as differentiated from the man
of passion.
“ Carry’s last item came on towards the end of
the programme. Her trembling fingers made
several mistakes, but I reflected it didn’t matter
now if she played the cat’s cradle.
“But I was mistaken. Suddenly there was a
little crash from the piano, and Carry almost tot-
tered from the platform. I caught her, supported
her to the dressing-rcom, and guided her to the
sofa, where she fainted.
“She didn’t look a bit interesting or impressive,
or anything, and the Professor was only politely
anxious till she opened her eyes and murmured
brokenly as if in a dream :
“ ‘Oh ! Ernest, and I love you so ; and now I
shall have lost you, my dear one—l 11 never be
with you any more.’
“ Then the remembrance that the Professor’s
Christian name was Ernest flashed before me and
I realised that Caroline had shown tact in spite of
herself.
“ That’s the story of Caroline. She’s getting on
well now, as you know ; having got plenty of
pupils for herself when Professor Ernest Bartmer
came back to resume his. No ! he never proposed
to her, but he helps her a good deal, and keeps
sorrowfully away from her, so as not to make her
anguish greater. He sees himself enshrined in
her maiden heart, and doesn’t know that she was
only worrying about a freckled-faced boy, more
im P or tant to her than all the men in creation.
“ Of course, Caroline would be mad if she knew.
I should like to see Caroline mad ; that’s why Pve
told you all about it—in the strictest confidence.”
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
The Herbalist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Op all the latter-day plagues, the itinerant med.
cine-man is easily the worst. You find him
everywhere; but his favorite haunt is the small
village, where he holds forth in the blacksmith’s
shop, or the parlor of the “ hotel.”
‘‘This ’ere,” he says to the blacksmith, "is my
’erbal liver mixture, made out of ’leven diff’rent
’erbs, from a reseet given me by the owner on his
dyin’ bed. I’ve got up to fifteen bob a bottle for
it, but I’m lettin’ it go now for two ’arf-crowns.”
The blacksmith, resting on the handle of his
bellows, replies: ‘‘There’s nothing the matter
with me, old chap ; liver nor nothing else.”
The hawker is a disreputable-looking but keen
old man, with a ragged, grey beard straggling
round the outskirts of his red face, which resembles
a neglected geranium garden within an ill-kept
hedge. His clothes are hung on odd corners of
his anatomy, and he wears neither vest nor collar.
“ Why don’t you get your horse something to
lean against?” inquires the blacksmith’s boy, who
has been inspecting the villainous turn-out at the
door.
“When you’ve done as much work as’im, sonny,
you'll need somethin’ to lean against,” replies the
hawker, sharply. “That ’orse,” he continues,
turning to the blacksmith, “is as ’ard as Pharaoh’s
’eart, an’ as good as gold. But ’ow about these
’ere patent medsuns ? ’Ere’s my patent tooth-
ache ”
“Never had a tooth-ache,” interrupts the black-
smith.
“ Well, my ’ead-ache cure ”
" Never had a head-ache.”
“ At any rate, it’s a handy thing to ’ave about,”
says the desperate vendor, “you never know
when you might ’ave ’em. They’re only a bob.”
“No, they’re out of my line altogether,” replies
the smith, turning to his fire.
“Will anny of you gentlemen,” resumes the
hawker, as a group of dairymen enter the shop,
“try my patent ’erbal mixtures. They’re the
rage wherever I’ve been. I took £l2 out of
W’racknabeal, and a bit more out of Col’raine.
Wait till I get my book of gen’wine testimonials
out of the buggy.”
He dives out to the trap and returns with a
horribly greasy exercise-book. “This,” turning
the leaves rapidly over till he finds the desired
page—“ this is an extraek copied from the Col’-
raine Albyn. Read it for yourself, sir.”
This is what, in crabbed handwriting, with
watery ink, meets the reader’s eye :
Quite a sensashun has been caused in the town by the
arrival of Professer Mixem with his famus erbel remedys.
As is well known they cure consumsion, sore eyes, gout,
paralises, hydates.
“Is that the way it appeared in the paper?
inquires the blacksmith’s boy, who has been
looking over the shoulder of the reader.
“Yes, word for word,” is the prompt reply.
“ Perhaps you ain’t aware that it’s seven years in
quod for perjury if any of them testimonials ain’t
true ? ” This was added as a clincher.
“Well,” replied the boy, pretending to feel in
his pocket, “ here’s half-a-crown to buy the
Albion people a dictionary.”
Disdaining to notice the remark, the medicine-
man continues: “I don’t s’pose you gen’lemen
know that the toff doctors fills yer up with
minerals. What do they know about ’erbs?
Never even ’erd of ’em. They just shoves bottles
full of strjcknum, beller-donny, quinine ”
“Gam !” says the irrepressible boy, who only
left school a month ago. “Garni who told you
quinine was a mineral? I don’t believe, bella-
donna is either.”
“When you start in the medsun business your-
self, sonny, I’ll be pleased to teach yer a thing or
two,” replies the hawker, with deep sarcasm.
“ Till then, I’ll thank yer to ’ang a weight on yer
tongue.”
“ Now, gen’lemen,” he resumes pleasantly,
“ ’ow about a bottle of my cramp cure—only two
bob a bottle. Just look at it”—producing a
lemonade bottle, without k label, secured with
a broken cork, and containing a thick, black
mixture.
“Queer looking,” comments a farmer.
“ 1 s’pose you mean the get-up,” is the reply
“well, you don’t ’ave to pay for a fancy label, a
flash bottle, and a red seal, and the rest of the
fakements the chemists charge you double for. I
put all the money in the mixture.”
“Well, I don’t mind if I have a bottle,” remarks
a farmer, passing over a florin, and a second
follows suit.
It is incomprehensible that men who can spot a
blind teat on a cowchains away, and whom it would
be impossible to swindle in a horse deal, will
swallow the tale of the medicine hawker with
actual relish. The magical bait is the word
“herbal,” which has the same effect on present-
day men as the word Mesopotamia had on the
pious old woman. The man who travels on
“mineral” remedies is unknown, while the
“herbalists” are legion. It is possible to con-
ceive of a time when Flemington will be deserted
on the first Tuesday in November, and there may
come a day when test cricket matches will be pro-
hibited by law; but when both of these calamities
shall have smitten us, the voice of the wandering
medicine-man will still be heard loudly in the
land, and the world “ herbal ” will still float con-
vincingly in the breeze.
F. R.
A Melbourne horse-dealer, returned
from Capetown, told this the other day: “I
landed at Durban and couldn't get trucks
for my horses, try as I might. At last I
greased the palm of a certain high official—£2
per truck—and then had no difficulty. At
Johannesburg I paid £2 a day for a room at
Heath’s Hotel, and hardly dared go out in the
street for fear of meeting old friends who were
hard up. I knew them as good, honest chaps in
Australia, and it was terrible to see them abso-
lutely stony broke. In ten days I paid away in
oans only, over £50 —a fi\er here, two quid there,
dso on. Then I got on the train and left.”


t,w
'*9
7
ip
tv
K<
1
Ji \
\
Is Caused by
Sick
Kidneys."
Everyone knows the purpose of
a water filter.—to filter the im-
purities from water.
Have you ever reflected for a
moment on the fact that you have
filters in your system a thousand
times more intricate and delicate
than the water filter—a thousand
times more important, too 1
These filters are the kidneys.
It is their duty to filter from the
blood the impurities which cause disease,
and to pass them from the system.
But sometimes the kidneys get sick through a fall or
strain, exposure, excessive use of liquor, perhaps, or one
of many other causes. Then they become clogged.
It’s no use to try to filter water with a clogged filter; before the water
can be purified the filter must be cleansed. It should always be kept clean.
The same, exactly, with your kidneys. When they are clogged they
cannot filter the blood properly ; then certain impurities are left in the system
that poison every nerve and organ. These poisons, this unfiltered blood,
cause Anaemia, Jaundice, Eczema, Pimples, Boils, Blotches, Piles, Varicose
Veins, Sallow Complexion, as well as Female Troubles, Neuralgia, Headaches,
Melancholia, and a hundred other ills.
A tonic or purgative medicine will often give temporary relief in cases of
this kind, but the trouble soon returns. It is NO USE to doctor the symp-
toms if you want a lasting cure—you must go to the root of the trouble and
doctor that.
A gardener who is weeding does not clip off the body of the weed, but
pulls it out by the root. The kidneys are the root of troubles brought about
by impure blood, and
jjoan’r> Backache Kidney pills
are a medicine specially prepared for Kidney Disorders. They will never
fail to gently aid and soothe the kidneys, and to cleanse them from im-
purities. They cure the root of your trouble, not merely the symptoms.
Entirely vegetable in their composition, they do not injure the system, nor
purge.
You are not asked to believe our statement alone, nor the word of a
stranger living in a distant town, but you are asked to place confidence
in the word of a fellow-resident, who frankly speaks out for the public
benefit.
SYDNEY PROOF.
Farrier sergeant Grace, Ist.Regiment of Australian Bushmen • •
addresses the following letter :“ ‘ Klip Drift,’ March Ist, 1901. Dear ’p:n s j n
very pleased to state that we have your famous Doan s Backache J\.i ne
the midst of our regiment. I was very much troubled in the early par
campaign with pains all over me, especially in the back. You see ' ij
trekking about in bad weather, and sleeping on the damp ground, an on
want an iron constitution to withstand the inroads on one s system. an
ings I have tried to get up, but failed until I obtained assistance. *J ‘ j
was often so bad tliat I felt inclined to rush into the zone of the enemy
put an end to my sufferings. All the military doctors who treate kac u e
do me any good. One day a comrade gave me three boxes of 1 oan
Kidney Pills, and told me to try them. The first box eased me greatly, ana
third box cured me. Many of my comrades used them, and they swea . ,
wonderful medicine. Indeed, this testimony expresses their gratitu
Backache Kidney Pills as much as it does mine. You may use this in y
you like.”
Anyone wishing to investigate this case now may do so at 18 Gleb® stree ,
Glebe, where Sergeant Grace lives; he will give full particulars of is
of the way Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills earned a good name in o >
good a name as they have in Sydney to-day.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for sale by all Chemists and Sto
keepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted, on receipt
price, by Foster-M'Clellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S
My Old Proprietor.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Readers ! in historic pages,
In dim annals of past age 3,
You have learnt how kings and sages
Came to grief—
Caesar stabbed his Roman shawl in,
Great Darius fallen, fallen,
Hemlocked Socrates—and all m
Fashion brief.
These days, too, with all their glory,
Could tell many a saddened story —
Like a grim memento mori,
So to say :
Recently, in King street walking,
I was with a Fatman talking,
When I saw a spectre stalking
Down the way.
He was thin, yea, he was thinner
Than the lost soul of a sinner,
Than the ghost of a dead dinner,
Than a rake —
Yet I had a curious fancy
That I knew that shape unchancy,
And I said, “ It’s Mr. Clancy,
No mistake ! ”
His stiff hair was thickly frosted,
And he seemed with thirst exhausted,
So that Spectre I accosted
With a wink.
I said, “Pardon this intrusion,”
And he stared in dumb confusion
Till I made a slight allusion
To a drink.
Then his eyes, that had seemed dreaming,
Like a chemist’s globes were gleaming,
And he walked with visage beaming
To the bar.
“ Once again the Land of Goshen,”
Said he, trembling with emotion,
And he told the girl his lotion
Was Three Star.
So by alcoholomancy
I made sure that it was Clancy,
But he did not take my fancy
As of yore;
For he looked a dead-broke draper,
Not the man who used to caper
Round when we brought out his paper
» Years before.
Then he used to ride a thorough-
Bred like blazes round Gingurra,
And the town of Turramurra
Painted red ;
And you’d think, to see the hearty
Way he’d drink with Black M'Cartv,
Life was just a whisky-party
Then to bed.
Well, he said, a reptile rival,
A silurian survival,
Had, by some obscene contrival,
Crushed his hope—
Sold him up in fashion thorough,
And he had to leave Gingurra,
And was ploughing a hard furrow
Hawking soap.
Now I think it is a pity
That while soulless, fat banditti
Can go swelling round the city
On their cheek,
One who was an earnest heaver
Of the Archimedean lever
Should be left without a steever,
So to speak.
It was truth and not romance he
Told, for better men than Clancy
Tramp the streets in fact, not fancy—
Sad to see.
But the cold world is too busy
For great minds with high thoughts dizzy-
Look at Francis of Assisi !
Look at Me !
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.
The Contemplations of Casey.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
IFocr a.in., and a howling westerly gale whipping
the sedate English elms of Collins-street into an
indecent suggestion of a delirious dance in the
native quarters of Port Said. There emerged
from the sheltering depths of a portico a voice
murmuring in monotone:
“ Six-fut-wan uv me, an’ here I am, stuck on a
bate loike this, spoilin' for divarsion, wanderin’
roun’ like a pig at a Donegal wake. ’Tis a dog’s
life, an’ few bones.”
“ Mornin’, constable ! ’’
“ Mother av Mary, an’ who are you ? Sure an’
I mistuk ye for the sargint. ’Tis about your size
he is, but better-looking maybe—at night.”
“ Thanks ; I’m grateful! ”
‘‘You wouldn’t be if ye knew him fer a week.
Have ye a match on you ? ”
“ I have, an’ some good weed. Try it ? ”
“ An’ why not?”
Two minutes of solid pulling, and he of the hel-
met broke forth again:
“Sure, an’ ’tis enough to drive a man to the
military. Here am I—divil a wan in Eussell-
street can give me a start in a row, and they plant
me here to waste. ’Tis all influence what does it.
There’s Holden, now. Him do they sind to
Antonio’s, the bull-fighter’s, where throuble’s as
thick as heads at a fair. Stricklan’, too, wanderin’
up and down Swanston-street, servin’ eviction
notices on thim Oitalian flower-sellers. Up to
his neck in glory is he all day. ’Tis a bad thing,
is influence, whin ’tis on the side of the other
malm.”
“ But surely there are always drunks?
“ Divil a drunk but in the Gardens; that’s the
place. ’Twas a polis magistrate, no less, I dis-
covered wan night. On the bend had he been, an’
’deed it must have been a foine wan. Whin Oi
come along, there he was on the footpath, asleep
an’ ondressed. His clothes were hung toidy loike,
on the pickets. Only his underpants and a singlet
had he on. Whin I woke him, ‘ ’Tis in bed, Oi
am,’ he sez, ‘ an’ a damn hard wan at that. Sure
at Menzies,’ he sez, ‘ ’tis a spring mattress at the
laste you expect for your money.’
“’Twas a wake later I met him, an’ slippin’ a
note into me hand, ‘Don’t forget, constable,’ he
sez, ‘to deny that outrajious report that Oi slep’
in a tree last wake.’ ‘’Deed sor,’l sez, ‘’n you
did not. ’Twas at the Ground Hotel, yer wor.’
“ Another wan do I remember coming down
Spring-street at daybreak. Drunk ! ’Twas worth
a wake’s pinsion to look at his breath,
livenin’ dress he wore. Where his hat had bin
was wan av’ thim pitcher hats, cocked over his eye
most ondacent. In his hand, do you moind ’twere
Christmas, wor a goose. He held it by the neck
at arm’s length, wid its bake pointed at him, and
whin I remonstrated wid him for not carrying his
liquor betther, he swore he hadn’t smelt it for
months. ’Twas the burrd, he said, had mismirised
him. Called himself the anshint mariner, and
the goose, he sez, ’twor some kind of a harbor
trus’ roosting on a gold ridge. Oi convinced him
he wor wrong, an’ be my sowl, he started to tell
me how in South America ’twor a game the boys
had o’ berrying a turkey in the groun’ with its
head alone above warter; thin on horseback
phwat does they do but gallop up and try an’ tear
the burrd from its moorings. The bloodthirsty
body-snatchers! ;
“‘I will enlighten your ignorance, constable,’
he sez, and, wid that, what does he do but lift a
gratin' in the strate, put the head av his goose
through it, throw his leg ‘cross a crooked stick he
had wid him, an’ prance along like a horse-guard,
no less. A grand foight he put up, an’ forty bob
it cost him for farin’ me uniform.
“Wan noight mesilf and Big Mac. had mit, by
way of divarshun, whin along comes the sargint
an’ old Dr. Shields. The doc. took wan luk at
Mac., an’ ‘Me mahn,’ sez he, ‘what the devil do
you mane by bein’ on duty in that state ? Report
yerself to me in the mornin,’ he sez. ‘ ’Tis dis-
graceful.’
“ ‘ Is it drunk he is, docther ? ’ sez the sargmL
“‘Drunk, be damned. The mahn's dyin’.
Nivir did Oi see such a case of ilifantus in me
career,’ he sez, an’ wid that he walked away wid
the sargint.
“ ‘Good Lord, Mac.,” I sez, ‘’tis terrible to
think how ye must be sufferin’. Is it catchin’ ? ’
I sez. .
“ ‘ You bet your loife ! ’ sez Mac., whin he had
done laughin’, an’ wid that he pulls out a bottle
what had slipped down from under his tunic, an’
was in the knee av his pants. ’Twas good beer,
an’ welcome.
“There was an inshpector that I moind av.
’Twas at Flinders-street, an’ there wus an old
harridan av a woman had bin makin’ loife onaisy
for me the night through. I wud shift her off me
bate to O’Meara’s, an’ whin O’Meara come back
he would shoo her on to moine agin.
“ Well, we played ping-pong wid her till along
comes the inshpector, an’ ‘ Take her to the cells,’
sez he. So Oi called a cab an’ left her to the
tinder mercies av the two of thim. ’Twas per-
suasion they tried, an’ thin argymint. Divil an
inch would she budge. O’Meara he climbed in
the keb an’ got a grip av her an’ pulled. How
that mahn wasn’t a dintist, I dunno at all.
“ ’Twas no use at all; so what does Mr. Inshpec-
tor do but drop his dignity an’ his bit av a cane.
Gettin’ a hould av the feet av her, he tries to
shove her in. She resinted this at wanst, an’,
d rawin’ up her knees till they was touchin’ her
chin, she let drive wid both fate the wanst. ’Twas
on the chist she caught him. Faith! and he
dropped as though he’d bin slugged, no less; an’,
to save himself, he made a grab at the skirts av
her. Something bruke, an’ there he was, siftin’
on the tram-track wid his arms full av female
clothes, while the colleen, dressed in a blouse an’
a pair av No. 9 boots, fled down the sthreet like a
deer.
“Well, Oi must be movin’, for ’tis a wicked
city, an’ full av bad characters in the shape av
inshpectors, sargints, an’ the loike.”
MAYBON.
“W.”: The Salvarmy lassie’s uniform is
ugly enough, goodness knows; but the fashion
of wearing the back hair done like a lorry horse’s
tail in a trades’ procession is positively unseemly.
No religion that wears its back hair like that can
be permanent.
While shunting operations were in pro-
gress at the Euroa (Vic.) railway station on a
recent evening, a schoolboy sat on the points to
view boss Bent’s minions at work. Getting the
signal to make the road, the stationmaster pulled
the lever, bringing together the points on which
the boy was sitting. Excruciating howls caused
the danger signal to be raised, when the slack of
the boy’s pants and a fair proportion of his nether
portion were found squeezed between the rails.
Had the guard and porter not been at hand, he
would assuredly have been run over, unless he
had sacrificed a portion of himself by main force
to save the remainder.
“ Vul ” on a complicated electric subject :
The recent narrow escape of several firemen from
serious injury or death through coming in contact with
telegraph and telephone wires, which had fallen foul of
the electric trolly- wires during a fire outbreak in King-
street, Sydney, has brought under the notice of the
average citizen the hourly danger he runs of being suddenly
and finally extinguished by electricity. In the case of fire-
men and others, there is always the possibility of coming
into contact with the wires whilst they are on ladders or
roofs, and receiving a fatal shock and then their re-
mains dropping on the crowd below and killing some-
body. In the event of the wires breaking and falling
amongst a crowd listening to a political orator or watch-
ing a dog fight the casualty list in the press next morning
would probably read like that of a first-class railway col-
lision. Except for the sake of cheapness, and through the
hankering to do in a hurry at the last things that have
been leisurely thought over for half-a-century, there is
absolutely nothing in favor of the overhead system as
against the underground method. In the latter case the
wires are placed similarly to the cable system, the arm,
which at present rises from the car roof, being placed and
controlled like the grip in the cable car. The whole
thing is safer, more convenient, and much more sightly
than the present overhead system. But, seeing that the
latter system is with us and is likely to remain for the
present, the authorities should take steps to see that the
wires are properly protected. The British Board of
Trade has issued strict regulations that no franchise
shall be granted to any co. for the use of electric traction
with overhead systems unless guard wires are fixed.
The same regulations are in force on the Continent. This
method of protection by guard wires is at present used in
Glasgow, and has proved most efficient. It consists of
an iron wire, supported by a span wire, placed 2ft. above
the trolly wire and Bin. to the outside, and is so arranged
that should the telephone and telegraph wires fall across
the trolly wire, they become dead and are quite harmless
to firemen or others handling them. But with such a
system of wire protecting wire, with another wire pro-
tecting the protector, the city streets will ultimately
become roofed in with wires, and the citizen will have to
take a trip to the country to have a look at the sky. The
most sensible method is to put the ’phone, telegraph, and
other wires underground ; and seeing that it will have to
be done sooner or later, it would be best to do it sooner.


Used It 20 Years
When My System Was Run Down. When I Was Weak and Miserable.
When I Could neither Eat nor Sleep.
Mr. F. W. Dußieu, of Collingwood,
Victoria, sends us kis photograph and
says:
“I certainly ought to know abeut Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, for I have used it over 20
years My faith in it is greater today than
ever. lam anxious to tell every one of its
blood-purifying power and its value as a
remarkable preventive of disease. I don’t
wait until I am down sick before taking it.
Just as soon as I feel weak, exhausted, or
lose my appetite, or don’t sleep well, I
take a few doses, and in a day or two am
all right. I tell my friends to keep it on
hand, for it’s ready then the very day they
want it. I know it has often prevented
me from being seriously ill, and I have
many acquaintances who tell the same
story.”
“The World’s Createst Family Medicine.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla lias been sold for over half a century. It has been tried
and tested in every way. Nothing like using an old, reliable, and effective
medicine, Intelligent people do not like to experiment. It’s too dangerous.
Unknown and untried medicines often work more serious results than the
disease. When you need a Sarsaparilla, get “Ayer’s,” for it is the oldest,
strongest, and best Sarsaparilla you can buy.
Cling to the kind that has been tested for 60 years. For purifying the blood,
strengthening the digestion, and bracing up the whole nervous system, use
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
Tested and Tried by Millions of People
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills. They cure constipation, biliousness
Prepared by SB. J. C. AYEB. & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
BEECHAM’S
MUSIC FOLIO.
Volume 20 Now Ready.
The New Volume comprises THREE NUMBERS from
“ EATTST,” Michael Watson’s “ THE KISSING BRIDGB,”
Kingsley’s “ THREE FISHERS ” (Hullah's music), FIVE
DANCES and PIANO PIECES, TWO COON MELODIES
by Gus Collins, and many other Good Songs — THIRTY in
all, several of which are copyright.
BEECHAM’S MUSIC FOLIO is not “ cheap ” in any sens# of the word
except in price. It is lithographed from well-engraved plates on good paper,
and edited by an eminent Professor of Music, thus guaranteeing perfect
accuracy. The songs have all the original pianoforte accompaniments in full.
A LIST OF THE CONTENTS OF EACH VOLUME MAY BE HAD FROM MOST BOOKSELLERS.
Volume 20 and the PRECEDING i 9 VOLUMES can be obtained from most
Newsagents, Booksellers and Music-sellers at TWOPENCE per Volume.
PUBLISHED BY
The Proprietor of “BEECHAM’S PULS,”
ST. HELEN'S, ENGLAND.
ROBERT
Li
Corner George
& Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
.B.—Visitors oi)ly pay for wbat tbcy actually batfc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments : BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
engage rooms AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYPNEY.
OTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
I
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and ta fche Bast
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.K., L.E.CJ.I., LS.C.S.E.,
L.M., etc..
RagiskcrMl hr tfc* Medical fceards «f Great)
inluu, VwMat, lUw Wales,
The Emiaeat Specialist, whose uaparalleled sucoeoa ia the Traatmant ef Bleed and Nerve
iseases has earned far him a reputation uaoeiuailed It/ aay EpaaiaUet ia AaatroJU, aaay ho ooaoslhod
aily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” ISI Hliaebsth-ot., Sydney. Sid aod o Wiete
ethods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treataaea'fc has prated abaalataly eifeelhre ia all tmoi af Waod
iscase, Nerve AfFectiens, Paralysis, Loss ef Bnergcy, tunf, Heart, Main, ml all
hrenic Diseases of Men and Women. Ills Oeneulting Neeme arc r*plate with all the
test and mast acientific improvement* ia Blectrlo Applianees, oho. tsuntry Patients
eated by Correspondence at their own homes Adviee and MotUeine, tno
aund. All Sufferers shauld write for a eopy af »r. karoos Utst Kadi sal Work,
TEE ‘ KNOI-MERCER’ TREATMENT IN IMSKAJI*." Shu work shoald tad a ploeo ia .vary
msehold, as it contains a full and explicit aooooot of the Moat Weadaslsd Iseatoteal af Maa Praaoat
■ye. It has been the means ef Curing; Thousands who followed sat Bhe isoiroodeow eoat&ined
ierein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleftoses aod lejataoala* ti Whole tyrtio, aad fe flho Ofeoaxpeet
reatment in Existence, as nothing; but the Beck is required.
Price, 56. ; by p*dt, ss. 64.
CONSULTING HOURS: lO to 2 and 7 to 0 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” ISI ELIZABETH •TItMET, OYtHBY.
“Floradora” was produced in Paris as an American
production, written and composed by Yanks, and coming
straight from New York. Nothing admittedly English
could become popular in Paris these times, the French
being a chivalrous and broad-minded people only at
Intervals. So a number of the flower-pickers on the Isle
of Floradora were represented as coons to give American
color to the scene.
“ J. 8.” : Florence St. John, in her autobiography in
‘‘M.A.P.” recently, relates her up* and downs since she
commenced her theatrical career. “ Married,” she says,
“ when only fourteen years and seven months old.” In
her account of her billets they ranged from 15s. to £2O a
week. Once her salary dropped from £l7 to £8 per
week, because she was recalled from the provinces to the
“ Big Smoke.” That was in’79. The rule works on the
reverse hinge nowadays. H. B, Farnie taught her more
about acting than anyone else. With all her powers of
mimicry she only laughed in earnest once on the stage.
That was when Farnie, watching her out of the wings,
accidentally shed his false teeth.
Since the inauguration of the Willoughby-Gbach co.
hardly a day hag passed without applications being re-
ceived from girls and women desirous of going upon the
stage. Mothers with talented daughters, aun ts with
talented nieces, pressmen with talented lady friends,
young girls, old girls, fat girls, thin girls, sad girls, jolly
girls, dark girls, fair girls, solemn girls, funny girls, nice
girls, and other girls, Government House girls, and ser-
vant girls—all stage-struck, all bitten by the virus of
public admiration —besiege Manager Geach, week in,
week out, for a chance to go upon the styge. Every new
manager is struck this way. The great unanimous desire
of the great aggregate Girl to go on the stage seems over-
whelming.
Although Charles Santley became very devout late in
life, he did not also become an ascetic. When, some
years ago, he was at Broken Hill, the mayor of the place,
delighted with his conviviality, slapped him on the back,
saying, “ You’re a jolly good sort, Santley ! I’ll conre
and hear you to-night; I shall, damme, if it costs me five
bob! ”
A fearful thing has happened in London. The Times—
the Times! has had the door of the Garrick Theatre
slammed in its face. A day or two afterwards Henry
Arthur Jones, whose “Whitewashing of Julia” was
“ on,” wanted to explain. The Lord High Editor, who
hadn’t publicly observed the slam, said Jones might do so
if first he got down upon his knees. Jones thereupon sent
along two columns, which the Times didn’t print, but
which half the other London papers did. “The notices
of my plays in the Times,” Jones wrote in two columns,
which the Times wouldn't print, “can scarcely be called
criticism at all. They have been largely composed of
personalities and allusions to my habits and expenses . .
Why, then, should we send a card to Balaam, and ask
him to drop in and curse us?” And the‘Times went on
not noticing the whitewashing of either Jones or Julia.
“N.”: Anent the great scandal of 1847 in a British
regiment—the 46th, if I remember aright— The Bulletin
enlightens many readers as to what it was all about. In
the course of the court-martial one question and answer
became so frequent as to be turned into a byeword. It
was “ Don’t you remember ? ” “No, I don’t recollect.”
This was a gag all over London. One gentleman, for-
merly a member of the regiment, came to Melbourne
about 1856, and appeared at the Theatre Royal in
“ London Assurance,” but did not take.
, A London musical critic complains that it was a mistake
for composer Strauss to accept certain verses by one Ritter,
as the true explanation of his remarkable symphonic
poems entitled “Death and Transfiguration.” Ritter
described the opening of the symphony as the picture of
“ a narrow sordid garret, lighted by one spent rushlight’s
gleam.” But the critic prefers to think that the music
reveals “ a desolate moor on a moonlight night.” Aus-
tralian musical cranks may be advised to remember this
difference of opinion next time they read the gorgeous
word-pictures with which Prof. Marshall-Hall explains a
Beethoven sonata. When the Professor states, on the
programme, that a prolonged movement for the clarionets
and trombones signifies a fight to a finish between angel
Gabriel and Beelzebub, it may be that the conflict onl>
means that Bodger, the baker, has come home in an
nusober state, and is getting violently abused by Mrs.
Badger.
Alfred Dampier, still struggling gamely with an occa-
sional “Shakespearian revival” in the Vic. provinces,
recalls that his first appearance as a pro. was at Stratford-
on-Avon, where Shakespeare was born. Many worse
things than this have happened to the Bard. Dampier, at
least, has a reverence for the old author and doesn t call
him Bacon.
“ Lip ” : Watched t’other day a number of youngsters,
ranging from 3£ years upwards, gloating over a peuny-in-
the-slot arrangement, which depicts a clothes-peg crimi-
nal being dragged mechanically from the condemned
cell and hanged by the neck till he is dead, dead, dead.
I counted seven who had dissipated 2d each, and one
opulent offender had broken into his sscoad “tray,” and
was still going strong when I loft.
Bailey, the circus man, died, a paralytic, in New York
a few weeks ago.
“Haresfoot”: Re dramatic adaptations of Dickens.
G. Fawcett Rowe produced two of his own in Melbourne
—“ David Oopperfleld ” and “ Barnaby Rudge.” His
Micawberwas extremely clever, afterwards repeated in
London. J. C. Lambert and Chas. Young presented an
entertainment, at the Melbourne Polytechnic, of drama
tised bits from Dickens. Emery will be remembered in
his fine characters of Peggotty and Capt. Outtle. He
visited Australia, with his daughter Winifred, now Mrs.
Cyril Maude, one of the principal London actresses
Emery’s Cuttle was in an adaptation called “ Heart’
Delight," at the London Globe, with Harry Montague,
etc. Dickens did not relish, in general, the adaptations
he saw, but said of Irving, in Bill Sikes, at the Queen's,
“He has the making* of a great actor.’’ Toole was tht
indispensable Artful Dodger. Kssley used to be immens<
as Sairey Gamp. Seymour Hicks lately did well a
Scrooge. Mrs. Keeley’s Smike was the feature of ttv
original Adelphi “ Nicholas Nickleby.”
There are few actresses who graft like Maud William
son, who, besides being leading lady and part owner o
a co., supplies that co. with plays. In her time she ha
dramatised some 15 novels with a fair amount of succes>
Hall Caine’s books came first (“ Manxman,” “ Deemster,
“ Christian,” and “ Bondman ”), and there is a possi
bility of “The Eternal City” being added to the list
Other writers she has tackled are Oorrelli, Gunter, Doyle
Crawford, and Wilkie Collins.
Charlie Cogill, the fat and genial nigger minstrel will
a snufflesome voice, has passed out from consumption
in his 56th year. The Cog-ills, Charles and Harry, firs
came to Australia with Billy Emerson’s co. some 19 year
ago, as far as present scribe can remember. Whe
Emerson went back to ’Murka the pair of burnt-cor
brethren remained and set up in business on their ow>
—in competition, and once in conjunction, with Fran I
Clark, also Harry Rickards, who was then only a period
cal visitor to Australia. For a while .John Gourlav wa?
associated with the Cogill Bros.’ Minstrel and Burlesqu
co., and that was probably their most prosperous time
Of later years they struggled hard to hold their groom
against the permanent Rickards show, but weight o
metal was too much for them When last heard of it
this country, Charlie Cogill was running a lit tle vaude
ville co. in out of the way places. Sydney and Jlelbourn<
lost sight of him. He went back to America, and died it
San Francisco.
How “ Alba ” was shaved :
Beware of the shallow-pated barber who takes his
Corelli and his Bible seriously. Entered a hair-saloon
recently and was immediately approached by a cadaver-
ous flesh-hacker, who rammed me into a chair with the
force of a garrotter. It was a sweltering day, and as I
looked into the razor-man’s face I saw certain small sky-
rockets moving across the pupils of his eyes. Aftei
blinding me with lather, he proceeded to glare at me like
a long-lost tiger. “ There was no shaving in Judea while
Herod ruled the Israelites,” he said, bitterly. “The
apostles never shaved.” He dragged his razor across my
throat with brutal violence. My protesting voice was
hardly strong enough to pierce the lather he had walled
around me. I said I never knew an apostle who was game
enough to be shaved. They preferred to die in prison
By way of answer he dug his knuckles into- my throat
and scarified the flesh under my left ear, and before he
had reached my chin he again flew off the handle.
“The multitude liberated Barrabas and sacrificed
Christ,” he said, grimly. I replied that, owing to the
scarcity of firewood in Israel, it had been deemed advis
able not to waste a tree on such an uncleanly thief,
also explained through the lather how the ancient robbe
had gone to Egypt about a.d. 40, and had become Owe
Barrabas, Minister for Works at Alexandria. Whereupoi
I looked into the barber’s eye and saw that I was jesting
with a lunatic. With slow, iron fingers, he twisted thi
•having-cloth about my throat, and then reached for a
longer and more murderous-looking razor than the one
he was using. I saw that my just deserts were hurrying
up. The towel almost strangled me ; hitherto I had always
pictured my end as happening in the South Seas —the
schooner’s ribs hammering the reef, my naked body flung
beachward, head to the sun, heels to the sea, with the
gull* drowsing in the trade-wind above-and here I wa-
about to die, surrounded by hair-wash. I made a mental
resolve that if I escaped from the chair alive I would lead
a better life and go to picnics like other men. The boss
barber had been watching us for some time. He came
behind my chair silently and took my man very gently
by the wrist. “You can knock off and pack up your
tools, Seth,” he said, somewhat sorrowfully ; “ I’ve been
watching you all day.” Seth dropped his razor and
gaped like a man shaken from his sleep. “ I haven't done
anything. What’s the matter?” he asked, stupidly.
“ Nothing,” said the boss. “Git, and take your Bibit
with you.” Last time I saw Seth he was hurryinj.
towards Dill Macky’s printing office, a razor-case in one
hand and a large, wobblesome bag in the other. Tin
bag fascinated me. It was of the kind much used by the
muffled officers of the Inquisition. It always turns up at
a big murder trial. And as Seth the barber jogged along
it trembled and shook as though it held the head of an
atheist or a priest. Has anyone seen the Cardinal lately :


WATERPROOF GOODS
"W aterprool'Coats
t-tTXSt-3T»«=»i~ Boots
Q-olpsh.eg
It’s easier to buy a Waterproof Coat or Goloshes than to
pay a doctor's bill through getting Wet.
We make a speciality of these gqods, and have opened all
the newest Waterproof Wearables for the seasan.
All are High-grade and Moderately Priced.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE AND PRICE LIST
FREE ON APPLICATION.
PERDRIAU& GO.
RUBBER IERCHANTS.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
Price 4s 6d, postage 6d.
co
co
co o
t—
o o
O 3S
09 Q.
The Best, Address for
English, French,
German
Books and Photos.
Apply—
-116 BOX, PARIS.
2/- for Catal. and Miai&t
Apply 116 BOX, PARIS.
LADIES.
WHITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
(JONt . RISING YOURSELVES.
A»»r««s— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR 111 RADIES.
W_ c. & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOEK STHKJST, SYDNEY
•pp. Centenary Hall).
Leimtry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTH IN6TOH.
TRADE MARK.
32 & 34 Clarenoe Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
9nxid. lor oatalosne.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO., Representatives.
A
H
Stocks at
Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
and.
arrive
Sal
■fco
for
Have
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE ; 435 Bourke Street.
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors, Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers’
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shaf ing, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil, Brunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
• *1
Hr i
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ALL KINDS OF
ENGINES & BOILERS
PUMPS,
MINING MACHINERY
And APPLIANCES,
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS & FITTINGS,
WOOD WORKING MACHINERY,
3E3T0., BTC.
Bushman
Harry Morant:
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
and Buccaneer
By FRANK RENAR.
Price 1/1
SSL ¥
EDWARDS, DUNLOP &CO.i
SYDNEY.
Si**, SJ" x 3J" x 5".
We are Direct Importers
AND HAVK FOR SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton & Co. Ltd.
97 Glarence-st., Sydney.
A GO-AHEAD FBRM
PATESON & COBCROFT,
231 Sussv Street,
SVDNhi.
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
and Produce Merchants.
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
The simplest
and most effec-
tive method for
dry crushing on
a small scale.
Invaluable to
Prospectors.
Made of Best
Hardened Steel.
■ •- * <.
‘*l regard it as
the best hand pul-
veriser which I have
ever seen.”
E. A. ASHCROFT,
Aseayer,
Broken Hill Pty. Co.
No. 2 Power
Machine
will crush 2
to 3cwt. ore
per hour.
Full Particulars on application to
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd Sole Agents,
71 Clarence-st., SYDNEY.
NERYOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
cov-ed a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CUZVE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Trewhella Bros.
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs o Clea ii"
Thresher* or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. . in -
are used by thousands throughout, Australaw.,
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves the •
You can obtain them from the ironmongei
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are-
Lift, Tons Prk®
Double Purchase Jack 4 65 -
6 75 -
Single „ n 2 a 40 "
With AUTOMATIC LOWERINC GEAR, 5/- exf-A
Awarded Special Prize at R. A. Show, Sydney,
PuR lafeaaaaMon and Trade Discounts from
Tirnrhella Bni, Trentham, Victors,
«* H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
